MUMBAI: Moshe, the boy orphaned in the 26/11 attack, returned to confront a bloody past in a remarkably composed frame of mind, said his grandfather   Holtzberg on Tuesday.

 
 Holtzberg, his wife  , 67, and younger son, also named Moshe, spoke to TOI at a Bene Israeli community meet organised at a school in   later in the evening. “He took it very easy. Even I was surprised,” smiled Freida. “He probably didn’t grasp the overwhelming part of the emotions since his visit was arranged in a relaxed atmosphere but he said that he wants to come back to Chabad House and live there.”
 
 Moshe, who now lives in Afula in northern Israel, arrived in Mumbai after an eight-hour flight from Tel Aviv accompanied by both sets of grandparents—Shimon and   (maternal) and Nachman and Frieda Holtzberg (paternal); his Indian nanny Sandra Samuel who had saved him; his paternal uncle Moshe and his psychologist, who Moshe has been visiting every Sunday for counselling since he returned to Israel aged two. “His psychologist was present at Chabad House today and feels that it could be that Moshe does have some sort of memory of what had happened in 2008,” added Freida.
 
 Moshe was told about his past gradually over time. In the initial years, his curiosity about his parents would be answered with “they are in heaven” but over time he was told the truth about his parents’ death “in bits”. “He could never put it together in his mind so his visit is enabling that. He is not a very talkative child but the scene of destruction as well as the rebuilding of it is something he was able to relate to,” explained Oren Rosenfeld who has been filming Moshe and Mumbai Jews for the past three years.
 
 Despite the painful memories, Moshe’s uncle indicated that the visit was an uplifting experience for the family. “We will fight terrorism with light and actions. Terror has been trying to divide nations—Jews, Muslims, Christians and Hindus. But today we see unity in Moshe coming back to this house and being welcomed by everyone,” he said.
 
 It wasn’t as easy for Frieda, though, to return to the site where her son had been slain. “It’s very hard to come back and see the place with bullet marks. We were here three years ago when the centre was partially rebuilt. Yet I’m happy to be here with Moshe,” she said. Both Nachman and Freida Holtzberg hope that Moshe will grow up to be “a good and religious boy” and return as a rabbi someday. “I thank God for his blessings that Moshe could return to Chabad House today and thank God for the miracle.”
 
 Moshe, who is a student of yeshivah (a Jewish institution that focuses on the study of traditional religious texts) lives on a strict Kosher diet and “loves cucumber, French fries and schnitzels” which were part of the private lunch arranged for him at Chabad House on Tuesday afternoon along with “salad and rice”, said his paternal grandparents who are on a visitation programme with Moshe while he lives with his maternal grandparents, his primary caretakers.
 
 Back home in Afula, Moshe is just like any other 11-year-old who likes to colour, play chess and study history. “Sometimes people treat Moshe like a baby and at times as an adult. He’s actually somewhere in between and he’s doing pretty well at trying to be a normal part of civilization although he does realise that he’s different,” said his uncle.
 
 Moshe has learnt to count in Hindi, thanks to Sandra who spends time with him on weekends and teaches him about India. The words he has mastered are “Achha hai” and “Thik hai”, said his uncle. On Tuesday, he appeared with his hands folded in a “namaste” as he stood at the first floor window of the grey and gaunt  , on a crowded Hormusji Street, his smile radiating across the bullet-hole ridden lane.
 
