LUDHIANA: A team of administration and police officials raided five immigration consultancy offices here on Friday. As many as 56 passports and a visa copy, which was suspected to be fake, were recovered.

 The team swooped down on four more offices, but their staff had fled.
 
 Out of the five firms, three had the permission to provide consultancy services, but none had the licence of Protector General of Emigrants to work as a recruiting agency.
 
 Five cases have been registered at different police stations.
 
 An FIR has been lodged against Nitish Ghai, Sonu Sood and Preety of Blessing Consultancy, Samrala Chowk; Ashu Thapar of A to Z Consultancy, also at Samrala Chowk;   of GGI Consultancy, Millar Gunj; and Ravinder Kumar, Jasmine Kaur and Nitish Ghai of 99 Visa Overseas and Brightway Consultancy at Ghumar Mandi. They were booked under sections 420 (cheating), 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and the Immigration Act.
 
 All five firms claimed to be recruiting agencies for jobs abroad and issued advertisements. GGI, Blessing Consultancy and Brightway Consultancy, however, only had licence to provide immigration consultancy services. The remaining two had no licence.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police (special branch) Surendra   said, “The raids were conducted at the agencies against whom the police had received complaints. After advisory of the CM, teams were formed comprising SDMs, ADCPs, ACPs and SHOs of seven police stations.”
 
 Starting with form filling, the accused used to take Rs 1,000 to Rs 2,000 from applicants. Thereafter they took Rs 3,500 for medical examination, followed by Rs 35,000 as processing fee. “Then they showed them fake visa on mobile phone and took Rs 1.5 lakh to get final visa. But they never sent anyone abroad. Besides, they would take passports of applicants in their custody,” Lamba added.
 
 The accused had also made plans to escape legal action. “They used to send emails from fake IDs of respective embassies, saying the payment made was non-refundable. They also got an affidavit signed by the applicants, stating that the company was not a recruiting agency. If any complainant ever proceeded with legal action, the accused used affidavits to save themselves,” he said.
 
 A case has also been registered against the owner of Chaudhary medical, here, a laboratory where Blessing Consultancy got medical examination of its applicants conducted, said police officials. 
 
 The accused were active for the past five years. Lamba said the police would verify the visa recovered from GGI Consultancy, as it seemed to be a fake document.
 
 The local administration swung into action after an advisory was issued by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on unauthorized travel and immigration agents.
 
 The team was constituted by commissioner of police Sukhchain Singh Gill and deputy commissioner Pradeep Agarwal.
 
 
