PUNE: A motor accident claims tribunal here has directed the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) to pay Rs5 lakh compensation with 6% per annum interest since June 22, 2016 to Purandar resident   (20) who sustained multiple fractures in a mishap involving an MSRTC bus at   in January 2016. 

 The tribunal’s additional member   held on Wednesday that the MSRTC, being the employer of the bus driver, was by proxy liable for the acts of its driver. The MSRTC had argued that its driver was not at fault but, the motorcycle driven by   with her friend Jadhav riding pillion, was proceeding at a high speed and its rider lost control while overtaking the bus before dashing the heavy vehicle. 
 
 The tribunal pointed out that Jadhav was an injured eyewitness to the incident and had recorded her evidence during the hearing. “The claimant’s version has been supported by the police papers relating to the crime registered against the bus driver. As against this, there is nothing on record to show that the rider of the bike was overtaking the bus at a high speed and committed the fault by disobeying traffic rules,” the tribunal observed.
 
 “The respondent (MSRTC) has not entered into witness box to support its plea nor does the said plea gain any corroboration from the police papers. Taking overall evidence of the claimant coupled with documentary evidence including the FIR and spot panchanama, there is no hesitation in concluding that the accident in question occurred due to fault of bus driver,” the tribunal held. 
 
 The tribunal partly allowed Jadhav’s claim petition by working out the claim amount to Rs5 lakh as against the demand of Rs7 lakh. It dismissed the claimant’s version that she was rendered permanently disabled due to the accident. 
 
 “There is nothing to find that the claimant sustained permanent disability. The claimant herself admitted in the cross examination that she has not filed any permanent disability certificate in support of her contention and has not tendered any positive evidence to show that the injuries sustained by her are permanent in nature,” the tribunal observed. It worked out the claim based on medical expenses, loss of amenities, suffering, conveyance charges and special diet. 
 
