BENGALURU: The transportation and dumping of waste in landfills on the outskirts of the city may have made Bengaluru a cleaner place but it has made life miserable for residents in the vicinity.

 ‘Bengaluru’s Toxic Legacy Intensifies’, a report released by the   on Friday, highlights the pathetic living condition of those living around the two landfills at  , north of Bengaluru. 
 
 From drinking contaminated water to seeing their cattle die and watching their children struggle with skin and respiratory ailments, residents of these villages have been made to suffer for no fault of their own.
 
 Speaking on the transformation of Mavallipura, Leo Saldanha of   said, “In 2000, the Karnataka Milk Federation recognized Mavallipura as one of the finest milk-producing areas, due to the good quality of fodder in the vicinity. After only 10 years of dumping,   issued a certification saying that no one should buy milk from there.” Landfills should be a thing of the past, he added.
 
 
 
 The two landfills in Mavallipura, which received Bengaluru’s waste for over a dozen years, have contaminated water sources in nearby villages.
 
 “The leachate produced by the accumulated waste, contaminated surface as well as groundwater aquifers. As there were no treatment systems in place, it is evident that leachate from the landfills was draining into all local water sources. Every time it rained, water percolated through these hillocks of waste, which now spread over 100 acres, and got contaminated. This water flowed into local wells, ponds, borewells and lakes. Several streams that fed the Arkavathy river downstream, a major drinking water source for Bengaluru, also got polluted with this discharge from the landfills,” says the report.
 
 Since ESG has been monitoring 17 of these water sources since 2003, it found that some sources of water which were potable a few years ago, now contain traces of heavy metals, chemicals and pathogenic microbes, rendering them toxic. 
 
 Kids worst hit; vulnerable to skin, respiratory infections
 
 Bengaluru: He’s only one-year-old and is already suffering from bronchopneumonia and recurrent skin infections. Raj (name changed) is among the many children adversely affected by the landfills around his house. His doctor says the skin infection may have been caused due to contact with contaminated water.
 
 On surveying over 4,500 people from 900 families in and around Mavallipura, a very high incidence of respiratory disorders (like frequent cough), bronchopneumonia, meningitis, skin infections (fungal), susceptibility to vector borne diseases (dengue) and also widespread viral fever episodes was seen in children. Developmental malformations were also noticed. Raj stays in Subedarpalya, half a km away from Mavallipura. 
 
 Both men and women reported constant headaches, skin infections, respiratory disorders and vector-borne diseases. Women also complained of menstrual disorders. 
 
 “There appears to be a direct impact of the persistence of various contaminants in water due to leachates, on the quality of health of the local villagers, particularly of Mavallipura, Subedarpalya, Ramagondanahalli and Kurubarahalli,” the report said.
 
 
  
  
