NAGPUR: The local education department has taken cognisance of allegations regarding under-reporting of seats under Right To Education ( ) Act and written to their head office in Pune seeking further directions.

  alleged that some schools, at the pre-primary level, are disclosing lesser number of seats available so that their RTE quota seat numbers also go down. Shahid  , founder of the NGO, said, “Since pre-primary level does not come under government purview, there is no way to ascertain if schools are telling the truth about the seats available with them.”
 
 From Std I onwards, every school is tracked through a unique number issued by the government. What Aadhaar number is for people, the   (UDISE) is for schools. The major difference between the two unique numbers is that most of UDISE data is online and in public domain. This has been done so that parents too can verify whether claims made by their school online exist in the real world. The type of data available through UDISE portal consists to number of students, number of classes, number of teachers, whether the school has a playground, washroom etc. 
 
 Sharif said, “UDISE number is not given to pre-primary schools due to which there is no consolidated data available in public domain for us to verify. This makes no sense because the government has made it clear that entry point for RTE admission of the school can be pre-primary as well. If, by law, the pre-primary section can be considered as an entry point then it must also be assigned a UDISE number.” 
 
 Last week Sharif wrote to the Deputy Director of Education (DDE) office in Nagpur, which in turn referred the matter to its head office in Pune. “It is mandatory for schools to display the number of seats available prominently on campus but there are many who don’t do it,” said Sharif. 
 
 A few schools that TOI spoke to said that under-reporting may be happening in less than 1% of schools. “If at all it is happening, it must be in some remote schools which hardly come under the scanner. Suppose a top school tries to do that, then just a single complaint to the education officer will lay bare all facts,” said a school principal. 
 
 
