GURUGRAM: The second meeting of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) held on Thursday witnessed major difference of opinion between bureaucrats and local politicians on key development projects being planned in the city. The differences were so sharp that chief minister   had to schedule a special meeting at the earliest to reach a consensus and constitute a committee to implement one of the infrastructure projects.

 The meeting discussed two important infrastructure projects, which are expansion of a   route to connect Gurugram with Dwarka and remodelling of Mahavir Chowk and Agrasen Chowk, which are located near the bus stand and the old city. The meeting also witnessed a heated discussion on a multi-specialty hospital being planned under public-private partnership (PPP) mode at Sector 67.
 
 Gurugram   Rao Inderjit Singh and   Umesh Aggarwal have been pushing for direct metro route from Gurugram to Dwarka and IGI airport. Way back in 2012, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) had proposed Iffco Chowk-Dwarka Sector 21 Express Link, which would have reduced travel time between these two thickly populated areas to just 12 minutes. However, the plan has remained stuck on drawing board.
 
 In Thursday’s meeting, sources said, when the chief minister enquired about the proposed metro route, bureaucrats informed him that this corridor would not be financially viable. The MP and MLA pointed out that most vehicles coming to Gurugram are from areas like Dwarka, Janakpuri and Vikaspuri in west Delhi.
 
 “Right now, there is no direct metro route between Gurugram and Dwarka, owing to which people are forced to first travel by Blue line and then change to Yellow line to reach Gurugram.
 
 A lot of time gets wasted. The main cause of snarls on the expressway is the absence of a direct metro route. People are forced to use their private vehicles,” said minister and Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit. He was backed by Rajiv Singh, vice chairman of DLF Limited, who is also a member of GMDA. Singh also asserted the need for a direct metro link between Gurugram and Dwarka.
 
 The CM then asked officials to arrange a special meeting with DMRC officials at the earliest possible to resolve this issue. “There is a need to build a direct metro route between Gurugram and Dwarka. I have asked my officials to arrange a special meeting, in which only this issue will be discussed,” said Khattar.
 
 The other issue hotly debated was the need to construct an underpass at Mahavir Chowk. According to the plan drawn by GMDA, an underpass has been proposed for traffic movement from MG Road to bus stand road. The Gurugram MLA questioned the need for an underpass in this area, saying the traffic volume will anyway reduce once the bus stand is relocated to city outskirts.
 
 “We have decided to form a committee which will modify the plan proposed at Mahavir Chowk. The MLA will be one of the members of the committee,” said Khattar.
 
 In the meeting, an in-principle approval was given for the construction of an art and culture complex in Sector-53, which will be funded by MCG.
 
 The GMDA budget of Rs 1025.60 crore for the year 2018-19 was also passed in the meeting. 
 
 
