KOZHIKODE: The number of confirmed deaths in the state due to   virus rose to 10 – seven from Kozhikode district and three from Malappuram -- with two more people succumbing to the rare and deadly infection on Tuesday. Though rumours and fake information continued to fuel fear on social media, the state and central governments have both confirmed that threat from the Nipah virus is at present “localised” and early and effective measures have brought the situation under control. 

 Health minister K K   said that out of 18 samples sent for testing, Nipah virus was confirmed in 12. They include 10 persons who died. Rajan, 45, from Koorachundu and Asokan, 52, from Chokiyad, died on Tuesday morning. A total of 17 persons are currently admitted to Government Medical College, Kozhikode, with suspected symptoms of Nipah virus.
 
 Soon after the first deaths – all from a family in Perambra here – were reported on Sunday, the state health ministry swung into action by setting up isolation wards, trying to identify the source of the outbreak and setting up public hotlines. The Union health ministry too responded with equal urgency and dispatched an expert team from National Centre for Disease Control. Another expert team arrived here on Tuesday to further assess the situation on the ground. "Since all the contacts are under observation and steps to avoid exposure through animal vectors have been taken there is no reason for people to panic. This appears to be a localised occurrence," the Union health ministry said in a statement.
 
 As part of emergency protocols, the dead were cremated at electric crematoriums and those participating in the late rites wore gloves, masks and other protective gear. Shailaja said the health department is depending on the opinion of medical experts and guidelines of World Health Organisation to combat the disease. The Virus Research Diagnostic Laboratory at Manipal Hospital and National Institute of Virology, Pune, are looking into the diagnostic challenges.
 
 The minister said the state government will take care of the family of Lini, the nurse who died on Monday while tending to Nipah-afflicted patients. A case has been registered with the cyber cell based on a complaint by medical college students, over fake information being spread through social media, the minister said.
 
 
