HYDERABAD: On March 31 the denuded rocks of   hill will come alive with the echo of chants of ‘Ya Ali’ as the devout gather in thousands to pay homage at the shrine dedicated to  , sonin-law of Prophet  . It has been a tradition for people in Hyderabad in the last five centuries to assemble on the 13th day of Rajab, seventh month of Islamic calendar, at the shrine atop Moula Ali hill, 2017 feet above the sea level.

 The tradition of grand Urs began during the reign of   IV after the ruler built a shrine in honour of the Caliph around 1578 CE. Moula Ali shrine predates by 13 years the city of Hyderabad, which was founded in 1591. Ever since there has been no break in the annual Urs, which is only getting bigger by the year. This time about 10 lakh devotees are expected during the week-long Urs.
 
 The police have made elaborate security arrangements while several social service and religious organisations have set up chilled water and guidance kiosks for the benefit of the pilgrims keeping in view the rise in mercury. But the archaeology department and the waqf board did not raise to the occasion to spruce up the shrine and repair the crumbling Kaman.
 
 Huge processions from various parts of the city to Moula Ali have been the hallmark of the Urs, a tradition started by the Qutub Shahi rulers and popularised by the Nizams. The Urs coincides with the birth anniversary of  , which falls on the 13th of Rajab. This year it falls on March 31. Union Minister for Minority Affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi released a poster on the occasion. Telangana BJP Minority Morcha spokesperson   demanded that CCTV cameras should be installed around the shrine.
 
 The Central Seerat-e-Zehra Committee headed by social activist Ali Raza said a ’Sehra’ procession will start from Bargah-e-Sakina to Moula Ali on March 31.
 
 Legend goes that a man by name Yaqoot had a dream. A man came to him in green clothes and directed him to accompany him to meet Hazrat Ali. Yaqoot saw Hazrat Ali sitting on a hill. He later constructed an arch. When the word reached the ruler, he visited the hills and paid homage to the Caliph.   used to serve as the gathering ground for the Urs before the devotees proceeded to Moula Ali hill.
 
