NEW DELHI: The attention of global politics is trained on Asia as two crucial summits get under way. While the summit of the two Koreas is a very big deal, the Modi-Xi "informal" summit also has the capacity to shape Asia's future. 

 
 An informal summit of this nature is rare. These happen more often between friendly countries or allies. Last week, German Chancellor Angela Merkel called PM Narendra Modi to drop by for a quick summit meeting since he was flying over Germany. But they are in the nature of friendlies — you need to discuss something pressing, want to dispense with bureaucratese and seek an informal summit. 
 
 On the other hand, its a mistake to club extras as summits — for instance, the boat ride on the Seine, or the amble through the MLK Memorial in Washington DC, Ganga Aarti with Japanese PM Shinzo Abe or the Modi-Xi swings in Gujarat — these are add-ons, quality interactions in addition to regular summitry. Instead, the three days that Modi spent with Bibi Netanyahu in Israel last year probably yielded more in terms of strategic content.
 
 In this century, India has done one other "informal" summit — between Atal Bihari Vajpayee and former Pakistan President Pervez Musharraf. That went down rapidly. China has done two unstructured meetings with world leaders — both with   by the way. The Sunnylands summit between Xi and Barack Obama didn't end well. China continued to build islands in the South China Sea and did nothing for strategic communication. The golf weekend between Xi and Trump in Mar-a-Lago was distinguished by Trump's revelation that he was raining down missiles on Syria as he and Xi were savouring a "beautiful" chocolate cake. That too did not end well. 
 
 Diplomatic historian David Reynolds writes in his book "Summits: Six Meetings that shaped the 20th Century", that these were nothing short of great human dramas and actually a test of character at the top level. He lists the Chamberlain-Hitler summit at Munich; Roosevelt, Stalin and Churchill at Yalta; Kennedy and Khrushchev in Vienna; Brezhnev and Nixon in Vienna; Gorbachev and Reagan in Geneva; Sadat, Carter and Begin in Camp David as meetings that determined the course of events in Europe and the world.
 
 Asia, however, is different, and informality in the western sense doesn't come easily. In short, neither India nor China actually "do" informal summitry very well. Both official cultures are too formal to actually believe that just putting two leaders on a boat with a cup of tea will solve intractable problems. In fact, what has been seen more often than not, is that meetings without a definite goal in mind really go nowhere.
 
 In Wuhan, despite officials from both sides calling the meetings between Modi and Xi "informal" a lot of preparation is evident. This summit has been in the making since the Xiamen meeting in September 2017. It has also been revealed that the last session between Modi and Xi in   on Saturday morning will include a small, high-level delegation from each side. This means some structure has been built into the meeting, even if there is no announcement this weekend.
 
 
