NAGPUR: The Nagpur University’s first   meeting as per new university Act started on a stormy note with members trying to corner administration over nominations on various bodies, which they termed as “not in consonance with the rules”. There was a clear divide between Jumbo Alliance (JA) led by Secular Panel and Younger Teachers Association (YTA) members, against the Shikshan Manch and Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad ( ) coalition. 
 
 Led by senior academician Baban Taywade, the JA members demanded explanation from the administration led by VC SP Kane, over nominations made by chancellor Ch Vidyasagar Rao. Taywade, an experienced campaigner, questioned rejection of his form for the   polls by NU, citing new rules as per the Act. 
  
 The issue continued for over two hours and even after ruling party leader in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Sandip Joshi requested discussion on other pending issues, the members including Pradip Bute and Mrityunjay Singh refused to relent. It was only after VC’s warning of using his special powers against anyone obstructing the proceedings did the discussions finally come to an end. He also explained that only the chancellor could revoke his nominations, and the VC had no role to play in it. 
  
 Later, members pointed out various issues and demanded answers from the NU administration, which had a free run of over two-and-a-half years without the statutory bodies. Mohan Bajpayee demanded scrapping of the semester pattern, complaining that 90 days per semester wasn’t enough for students and teachers to prepare for the exam. Kane then responded that there would be a meeting of all VCs where the matter would be discussed in detail. 
  
  brought up the issue of women’s safety in colleges, seeking specific data on the number of CCTVs installed in college and university premises. 
  
 Keshav Mendhe raised the issue of Agnihotri College of Pharmacy’s eight students, who are facing problems for their projects and also issuance of exam hall tickets. While the members blamed apathy on part of Exam Section, pro-VC Pramod Yeole passed the buck to some colleges for delaying submission of exam forms. 
  
  
