VADODARA: A racket of selling   snake was busted by the forest department officials with the support of wildlife activists in the city. 

 Sources said that four persons involved in the illegal sale of the sand boa snake, which was up for sale for a whopping Rs 60 lakh in the black market, have been detained. On Sunday evening, officials had received a tip-off that some persons were trying to sell the snake in the black market. 
 
 “After we received the tip, we sent dummy clients who were ready to pay the handsome amount for the snake. We were first called at   and later at   circle. It was around 5.30 pm that the sellers were nabbed from near a tea stall. But the rickshaw driver who was accompanying them managed to escape from the spot,” said   of Gujarat Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA). 
 
 The red sand boa snake was four feet long, seven inches broad and weighed nearly 3.5 kg.
 
 “We have kept the four under detention for thorough interrogation as we believe that there is a larger network of illegal sell. We are trying to catch the big fish involved in the racket,” said  , deputy conservator of forests in Vadodara. He said two department officials including A A Makrani and V R Damor are probing the matter. 
 
 The boa snakes are listed under the schedule IV of the Wildlife Protection Act 1972, which protects the reptiles. This means that anyone found with the boa snakes needs to provide proper documentation of the snakes and failure to produce this will make them criminal offenders.
 
 Sand boas have various uses and hold significance mainly because of the myth and belief surrounding them. While these non-venomous snakes are used for medicinal purpose, many have been using this snake for black magic. The demand for the sand boa has also been associated with Malaysian superstitions which claim that owning this snake heralds good luck.
 
 The reptiles are high in demand and are marked as one of the costliest creatures in the black market with a price range increasing from lakhs to crores.
 
 
