When they made that fatal trip to Guruvayur,   and Devika, both muscular dystrophy (MD) patients, were 24 and 19 respectively. As usual, Devika had drawn a picture of the Lord which their parents and bank employees, Prasannan Pillai and Sreelatha, wanted to donate to the temple. The accident – a ‘tipper’ hit their car – happened on the way back when they reached Cherthala. “Father died in the morning and daughter in the evening but I was not told,” says Krishna Kumar, lying in his wheelchair, his memory nearly robbed of its grief by the passage of over half a decade.

 In fact, a smile plays on his lips as he looks fondly at his sister’s picture on the wall in his home in Chavara, Kollam. “She was a birdwatcher and wrote a book titled   but did not live to see its release. Mom would often carry her so that she could watch the birds from close quarters.” Krishna Kumar and his mom too suffered serious injuries and were still in the hospital when their near ones were cremated. It took three months for Krishna Kumar to recover from his multiple fractures.
 
 Asking his friend Sreehari to adjust his body, he explains that his condition is medically called Spinal Muscular Atrophy, which made it impossible for him to walk and the progressive degeneration of the muscles meant that even those movements the hands were initially capable of were lost in due course. He could never go to school but had to be content with home tuitions.
 
 But his dad, his role model, was particular that the two children always read the newspaper and books and mingled freely with people. This resulted in Krishna Kumar being a good communicator even though his speech has now developed a slur. He has a bevy of friends, some in the neighbourhood and others with whom he keeps in touch over the phone. When we visited, besides Sreehari, there was also Sachin by his side to facilitate his every need.
 
 All the same, Krishna Kumar has designed his surroundings in such a way that he can do things himself most of the time, as much as possible. There is a laptop table, bookstand and a phone holder, all designed by him, to help him get along with his life. When he wants to dial a friend, he utters a command to the phone which obeys him. Similary, a software called   lets him use oral commands to navigate through the computer, Internet and even write his blog called ‘The man on a wheelchair’ by spelling each word out. ‘Wake up’ and ‘Go to sleep’ are two of his frequently used commands.
 
 “One question that strangers always ask me is, ‘what do you do?’ I tell them that I chase my dreams,” he says, before elaborating on his prime ambition of starting a car modification company. “Sreehari and Sachin have agreed to join the start-up,” he says, with great enthusiasm. His own car has been modified to accommodate his wheel chair. A friend who is studying in the IIT helped with the design and Krishna Kumar now plans to make a trip to Bengaluru next month to do some field research. Already, he knows what he will call the company; WOW, which expands to  .
 
 Often, he goes to the movies along with friends. “Adam Joan was the last movie I saw,” he says. “Kollam has two theatres that are disabled friendly.” But Adam Joan was released a while ago, right? “No good film has released after that,” he quips.
 
 Topping his bucket list is a trip to Europe but he has travelled a lot within Kerala and has gone up to Chennai. “When there was a T20 game in Kochi, I went there. Wanted to meet Dhoni but couldn’t,” he says. Meeting Sachin Tendulkar is another of his unfulfilled dreams.
 
 He is part of an organisation called Mobility in Dystrophy (MIND), which has nearly 300 members. An active member, he includes the setting up of a rehabilitation centre in Kerala for people like him under the auspices of MIND in his wish list. “Cancer is at least curable but MD is not. The proposed centre should have a skill development centre because those with this condition turn out to be a liability for the home as well as the society,” he says.
 
 In one of his instructional notes on MD that he has put out on the Internet, Krishna Kumar has this quote from Mattie Stepanek of America, who died at the age of 13 because of a rare disorder but not before publishing seven best-selling books of poetry: “Sometimes my body wakes me up and says, ‘Hey you haven’t had pain in a while. How about pain? And sometimes I can’t breathe, and that’s hard to live with. But I still celebrate life and DON’T GIVE UP’.” There can’t be a better advice for this generation, points out Krishna Kumar, many of whom give up even after tiny losses.
 
