CHENNAI : Close on the heels of completing a controversial housing project for all-India service officers at Nerkundram at concessional rates, the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) is kickstarting another gigantic realty project in the same area. The state-owned board is contemplating construction of a 1,000-apartment housing project that may house a separate residential complex for  . One kilometre from  , the 17-acre plot was stuck in a legal battle which the TNHB won in 2017. 

 Official sources said that the TNHB applied to the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) seeking approval for beginning constructions on the plot. “We have filed an application seeking planning permission for the land parcel divided into three sub-divisions. The proposed development is likely to collectively have 1000  ,” an official added.
 
 In the first phase, TNHB built 1,016 apartments comprising 608 flats for the all-India service including   and IPS officers, 120 flats for Group I officers and 288 LIG flats for government servants, wherein the beneficiaries were selected through a draw of lots. Noting that government servants cannot be conferred any largesse at the cost of the tax payer, a litigation was filed in the Madras high court charging that the all-India service officers were being accorded undue advantage under the scheme. However, two years ago, the high court ruled that the housing scheme for IAS and   was not illegal.
 
 Now, the TNHB is gearing up for a similar massive housing project on the land, a year after it came up trumps in the Supreme Court in the dispute over ownership of the land. According to senior officials, the state government received a request to construct residences for judges. “The bungalows we have are old and inadequate. During discussions, we felt that an apartment complex similar to the IAS-IPS housing complex will work better. It will be easy for surveillance and will have all facilities like a gated community,” a senior government official said.
 
 TNHB sources said that the apartments planned in the second phase of the Nerkundram project would be only for outright purchase. “We are also hearing that there is a proposal for residence for judges, though nothing is on paper. There is no condition that the proposed development should be earmarked for any particular section. For instance, one block can be allotted to the Judges and another can be sold for the public as well,” another official added. Moreover, multiple sources said that the proposal for the housing project must be placed in the meeting of the TNHB board whose consent is necessary for executing the project. 
 
 While Madras High Court Registrar (Administration) V Devanathan said he was not aware about any such development, Registrar general R Sakthivel could not reached for comments. TNHB managing director Shambu Kallolikar did not respond to TOI’s query regarding the proposal for a residiential complex for judges.
 
 
