Six months since listing,   has firmed up plans to enter the fast expanding   and is also planning a third fund under its   arm. The assets reconstruction business will add to AB Capital’s already existing dozen business verticals, mainly dominated by its   ( ),   and  . AB Capital’s chief executive Ajay Srinivasan speaks to TOI on the company’s plans. Excerpts:

 It took about 10 years since you took charge of the financial services business in the group to its listing. Wasn’t it a bit longer than initially planned?
 
 We had five businesses when I came in — including mutual fund, life insurance and NBFC verticals — but they were all sub scale. We felt it was important to build the entire portfolio and also scale in at least the key businesses before going public. Our idea was to build a business that meets the needs of the target customers through their life. Today, we are pleased to have achieved that. Now we have 12 lines of businesses, including the NBFC as a diversified business, private equity, infrastructure financing, the broking business  , Aditya Birla MyUniverse, a housing finance company, a health insurance company, and we recently got licence for an ARC. We have also added a pension company under  .
 
 The ARC business is clearly taking off in India. What are your plans?
 
 Last year, we got the licence from the   and we will start the ARC business probably in the next few months. We feel the supply of stressed assets should pick up. The ARC business is becoming more of a cash business and focus is on business turnaround rather than just restructuring of debt. All this plays well to our group’s strengths, given our experience in working across a number of businesses.
 
 How do you plan to deal with errant promoters?
 
 We are already seeing a tightening of processes and the reforms in this space have been fairly significant. The   (National Company Law Tribunal) process does not allow an errant promoter to bid for his own assets. I think the message to promoters is clear: If you don’t fall in line, then there is serious risk of you losing your business.
 
 What’s new on the PE side? Any new fund in the pipeline?
 
 We are winding down two funds as they are reaching  . We had several good exits —  ,   (now RBL Bank),  ,  , to name a few. We are thinking about a new fund, but it’s early days. We are still working out the details because we have time till we raise the third fund.
 
 Are you looking at any acquisitions?
 
 We are always open to new opportunities if it creates good strategic value plus good financial value. We already have a platform, so the value has to come from the economies of the deal itself. We have not been able to find anything that has met both our strategic and financial value expectations so far.
 
 In the mutual fund sector, popularisation of   ( ) is leading to more ‘retailisation’. What are your focus areas in that business?
 
 I would say retail, SIP, focus on small towns, and equity are the four things that we have been focused on. SIP is retailisation in that sense. And we think there is a big opportunity outside the large cities. As wealth and awareness increases, I think a big opportunity is building over there.
 
 What’s your view on people’s increasing preference for financial savings over buying physical assets?
 
 ‘Financialisation’ has been a big trend in the last 18-24 months. And within that, the focus on investment — particularly mutual funds — stands out. That has been our focus. The numbers are pretty staggering. We have doubled our retail base in the last two years. We have a very decent market share in SIP and our equity market share is at an all-time high. We are gaining market share in the smaller cities. Brand name and trust has more relevance there than having access to 40 fund managers.
 
 Do you think the campaign ‘Mutual Funds Sahi Hai’ to popularise MFs has worked?
 
 Mutual funds are a good product now, well established. The industry has done a good job in building awareness and the ‘Mutual Funds sahi hai’ campaign has clearly helped in building salience, particularly in small towns. The good returns have helped too. Both equity performance and fixed income performance have been strong. So, in that sense, the industry has delivered.
 
 What is the customer proposition of Aditya Birla Capital?
 
 It’s a single platform that offers and meets all the money needs of our target customers, through their life, with the convenience of engaging with one brand. Aditya Birla Capital is the one common brand and face for all the money needs of our customers. We have one website, one phone number, one log-in ID, one view of all your money relationships. And all our branches are access points for all our solutions. So we offer a seamless journey. Aditya Birla Capital is not a collection of businesses, but one brand that is committed to change the way our category engages with the customers.
 
 
