Quote: My drink is different from other drinks of this kind, because I use only palm jaggery and not any other form of sweetening agent like vellam or sugarcane jaggery

 On a hot Friday summer, at a small nondescript shop on CMR Road, milk pots are seen slowly steaming away on coal embers, while a steady stream of customers sip on a glass of ‘Paruthipal’ and go their way refreshed. A hot drink to stay cool in this hot summer? Don’t be surprised as the shop has been serving this drink -   - for over 90 years, according to its owner.
 
 M Santhanam, 61, runs his business in a 5x5ft shop, and is always busy attending to customers. “I do not feel the hot climate when I see my customers as I know in my heart that I am doing the best for their (customers) health, like my father did,” he says while pouring a glass of hot paruthipal or cotton seed milk to a customer who sips on it eagerly.
 
 Popularly known around as ‘paruthipal kadai’, the shop is named Thirumalai Madai Karuppasamy Paruthipal Kadai, after his deity. Located at the junction between CMR Road and Kuyavarpalayam Road, one has to just ask around anyone for this joint, although it is very difficult to notice it at a first glance. 
 
 “Cottonseeds are like other seeds but very tiny. Most of the cotton seeds for this drink in Madurai are sourced from Hubli in Karnataka,” he said.
 
 Unlike other seeds and nuts, the tiny size of the seed makes it difficult to process and has to be soaked for a 24 hours, before it can be ground into thick milk and strained. The milk is then boiled with continuous stirring. Palm jaggery, which is boiled separately, is then added to it. “My drink is different from other drinks of this kind, because I use only palm jaggery and not any other form of sweetening agent like vellam or sugarcane jaggery. I also add sukku (dry ginger), thippili and coconut, all which will help anyone to tide over the hottest summer,” says Santhanam
 
 T Saravanan, a loadman who works in the city, said that he has been able to ward away heat related ailments by drinking two glasses of paruthipal from Santhanam’s shop daily. “The drink is hot, but when you drink it regularly you will realize the difference and it also helps keep away cold and cough,” he said. 
 
 Even though there are many shops that sell paruthipal, Santhanam’s shop has earned a name for itself in the locality with its unique blend.
 
 
