PUNE: Transport authorities here are unhappy with the police and education departments’ response to their suggestions for making students’ commute on school buses safer.

 
 As the   (RTO), Pune, gears up for a stricter drive against school transport vehicles once the new academic session starts after the summer vacation, its officials said proper support from the police and education departments continued to be elusive.
 
 “We will talk to the police at length this time in our bid to make the schools more accountable. A system has to be introduced to ensure that the schools take a serious look into the transportation affairs and become more responsible. All schools need to be vigilant. We are planning to file cases against schools not adopting a responsible stand,” Pune regional transport officer B I Ajri told TOI.
 
 A senior RTO official said transportation of children to schools and back homes is a serious issue and all stakeholders — schools, police and the education department — have to be responsible.
 
 He added, “Last year, we had requested the district school bus committee to invoke sections under the Indian Penal Code against transporters violating rules. However, the police did not take any action. Similar is the case of the education department. We had requested it to find out if the schools have transport committees or not. The education department also did not take any action.”
 
 Education department (Pune division) assistant deputy director   said, “We periodically issue orders to all schools and ask them comply with all rules laid down by the government on school buses. We will issue another letter to the schools this week. The schools have to go through the necessary procedures before reopening for the next academic year.”
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ashok Morale said his department was keeping an eye on the situation and taking action.
 
 In March, the RTO had requested the district school bus committee to file criminal cases against the owners of vehicles ferrying school children if they were found violating the school bus policy norms. This came in the wake of the death of a 14-year-old boy who fell off a moving school bus at   in Pimpri. The RTO had then said several letters about stricter action against erring schools were sent to the education department.
 
 An RTO official said this year’s drive will focus on security basics. “We will also check if the vehicles are equipped with speed governors. Action will be taken against transporters of vehicles violating the rules. We do not have much manpower to take action. The police are better equipped to do it,” he said.
 
 Last year, the RTO had initiated the drive under the tagline “Jaago Palak Jaago” to make the parents aware of the issue. “How can a parent be at peace by letting a child travel in an overcrowded van with a seat above a CNG cylinder? We are conducting drives frequently. But the parents should also be on their toes to ensure their children’s safety.”
 
