NEW DELHI: Terming the   government’s move to seek a separate religious identity for Lingayats as a desperate bid to retain power by dividing Hindu society,   has said   has contradicted the decision of the   government not to consider such a request. Terming the move a last ditch effort to retain power, minister of state for parliamentary affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal said CM Siddaramaiah has gone against his own party’s view point in a cynical attempt to gain electoral advantage. 

 
 “In November 2013, the then Manmohan Singh government had decided that giving separate religion tag will split society and affect SCs professing Veerashaiva/Lingayat Dharma,” Meghwal said. He also quoted the Registrar General of India’s letter dated November 14, 2013 to the Karnataka government that the Veerashaiva-Lingayat is a sect of Hinduism and not a separate religion. 
 
 “The demand made by the all India veershaiva mahasabha is apparently not logical and correct. Therefore, no separate code/column was proposed to be assigned for persons returning their religion as Veerashaiva-Lingayat during the Census of India, 2011,” the Registrar General’s letter said. The Registrar General had also said, “If Veerashaiva-Lingayat is treated as a separate religion by providing separate code/column than Hindu, all SCs professing the Veerasahiva-Lingayat sect will lose their Constitutional status, since SC can be only from Hindu, Buddhist and Sikh along with their sects.” 
 
 Meanwhile, BJP chief ministerial candidate B S   is awaiting the view of community associations which the party feels might take a critical stand on the Congress’s gambit. “Now that the state government has come up with this recommendation, the all India Veerashaiva Mahasabha should immediately call a meeting, discuss the pros and cons of this recommendation and be a guiding light to society. This is my appeal," Yeddyurappa said in a statement. 
 
 Mahasabha has called for a meeting on Friday next. The Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in Karnataka on Monday accepted a proposal to grant a separate religion status to the Lingayat community, ahead of state assembly polls likely in April-May. With Yeddyurappa, a Lingayat, on its side, BJP banks heavily on the community for its bid to return to office.
 
