VADODARA/ ANAND: The wetlands of lush green Anand and   districts – the twins popularly known as Charotar belt of   are home to at least 131 crocodiles. 

 This is what the fifth Charotar crocodile count – the unique citizen science initiative - to know the number of reptiles in Charotar belt of   has revealed. 
 
 The Voluntary Nature Conservancy (formerly known as Vidyanagar Nature Club) which had organised the two days crocodile count on January 6 and January 7 believes that although its volunteers could sight 131 muggers, the population of crocodiles in this rural heartland of Gujarat has remained stagnant. 
 
 “In the fourth crocodile count, we had sighted around 200 crocodiles. But this time, all the water bodies were brimming with water. We believe that it is because of this reason that crocodiles had to struggle for space for basking and hence we could sight only 131 crocodiles,” said  , managing trustee of  , adding that like the last count, during this count as well, the reptiles were spread over an area of 1,300 sq km of the twin districts.
 
 Interestingly, it was for the first time that volunteers from across the country had also estimated the size of the crocodiles which were sighted during the count. 
 
 Of the 131 individuals sighted, 63 crocodiles were bigger than two metre, 44 were of size between 1 and 2 metre, 12 were of size less than 1 metre and while the team could not know the size of the rest of the reptiles. 
 
 Of the 21 villages that were surveyed that not only included wildlife enthusiasts but also those associated with forestry and students from varied streams, the maximum number of crocodiles — 59 — in all were sighted at Deva village in Anand.
 
 After Deva, the maximum number of crocodiles — 11 — were sighted in water body of Malataj followed by 10 each in Petli and Marala-Naghrama villages. 
 
 The team of volunteers could record only one crocodile each at Changa, Navagam, Maliyataj and Bhadkad villages while no muggers were sighted at Devataj, Dali and Khandhali villages. 
 
 VNC this time had selected nearly 100 volunteers from different states of India and 11 districts of Gujarat for the initiative which is a unique exercise. 
 
 “Globally such citizen science approach is used for crocodile population survey only at two places including the annual exercise done by us in Charotar and at Belize in  ,” said Patel. 
 
 “Our counts have revealed that it is not because of religious belief that people in Charotar protect crocodiles. They protect crocodiles because they love the reptiles,” he said.
 
 Well-known environmentalist Bittu Sahgal who had remained present at the concluding session of the count had also appreciated the efforts made by citizens of Charotar. 
 
 
