The Maharashtrian festival   marks the auspicious beginning of the harvest season. It is an occasion to express gratitude to Mother Nature and to celebrate the life cycles that give us grain.  , a professional in the decorative paints industry and  , interior expert and blogger, share tips to give your home the perfect makeover. 

 
 
 Gudi is a copper vessel called ‘Kalash’ and resembles ‘Yashashri’, which means winning. It is traditionally placed upside down with leaves, flowers, sweets and sari stuck in it which mimics overflowing of wealth, health and betterment. Take cue from the beautiful arrangement and use copper vessels around the house to make cute floral arrangements. Whether a traditional kalash or modern copper utensils: you could take a pick depending on the theme and mood of your home
 
 
 
 Create bohemian buntings with flowers that are quintessentially Indian. While rangoli is a traditional way to use flowers in Gudi Padwa —flowers being an important part of it resembling   or happiness and well-being — give it a spin this year by using simple flowers in extraordinary settings. Let marigold garlands run along the length of your drapes and add in a few strings of mirror for that perfect boho feel. 
 
 
 
 Take cue from the Jari Sari, which resembles Vaibhav - and use saris as drapes. With the traditional, authentic   and you could quite effortlessly strike a jungalow style or an ethnic Indian style with it. 
 
 
  
 
 
 Add colours associated with this season — yellow, orange and red, to give your home a vibrant, celebratory feel. Sunlit bliss is a palette for the more traditional homes. In this palette, light is the most sought after quality in the home. The creamy colours of yellow, sun-baked orange, arresting red and terracotta fill your rooms with warmth. You can also add the warmth of deep rich orange and browns in the living room. Familiar woods, ethnic fabrics and warm colours of yellow, ochre, orange and olive make for a cosy home.
 
 
 
 The decoration items used during Gudi Padwa are usually green. Green refers to all the items of harvest like sugarcane sticks, banana leaves, mango leaves, and so on. While you live in bustling streets and high-rise buildings, there is always that desire for a Secret Garden. A contemporary look with a seamless transition between the indoor and outdoor areas defines this theme. Surround yourself with the colours of a Secret Garden, leaving everything else a pristine white. Pick from the varied strong green tones, and apply them boldly in the room, completing nature’s drama.
 
 
 
 This look is a slightly retro idea for a naturally stylish home. Rich in strong colours and natural woods, the palette has verdant greens and aquatic blues for a lush home. Large plants and strong colours are natural accents in décor that bring abundant lushness into the home. Combined with sand and whitewashed accents, the colours set the mood for instant relaxation.
 
 
 
