BENGALURU: One segment of   — a sizeable one at that — in Bengaluru district which parties and candidates cannot afford to ignore is women, especially young, first-time voters. Electoral data accessed by TOI shows that more women than men have registered as fresh voters in the last few months in the city. Between the draft voters’ list published in November 2017 and the final voters’ list published at the end of February this year, about 1.7 lakh women voters have registered. Most of them are first-time voters.

 Bengaluru district election officer N Manjunath Prasad revealed that of the total 88 lakh electorate in the 28 assembly constituencies in Bengaluru district, about 42 lakh are female voters. “Even the gender ratio of the voters list has improved by 2 per cent between the draft and the final list,” Prasad said.
 
  
 A senior official with the election commission said that in constituencies like Jayanagar, Malleswaram, Sarvagnanagar, Shivajinagar and Rajajinagar, women almost equal the number of male voters. The fortunes of various political parties could rest heavily on the women voters, the official said. In some other constituencies like Pulikeshinagar, Basavanagudi, Padmanabhanagar, Yeshwanthpura, Yelahanka and Shantingar, the number of women registering to vote has gone up in the last few months.
 
 KS Vimala of Janavadi Mahila Sanghatane claimed that more women in the voters list is a good sign in a democratic set up. “Having said that, participation of registered voters in the polling exercise is key,” Vimala said. “Also, they should be able to decide their vote and their choice should not be influenced by family members or employers.”
 
 Vimala revealed that the reason for more registrations in women voters could be because of increase in migrant population in the city as they feel having a voter ID will help them get an identity and other benefits. “In order to help freshly enrolled women voters to make informed decisions in an election, the election commission should use modern tools such as social media to reach out to them,” she said. “Women should also try and understand the policies of the political parties before casting their vote.”
 
 Even for the state, women voters figure has gone up by 13 per cent this year compared to previous assembly elections. As many as 2.44 crore women voters are in the final list while there were a total of 2.13 crore women voters during the 2013 elections. The number of women voters during the 2014 Lok Sabha elections was 2.26 crore.
 
 
