VADODARA/ ANAND:   Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation ( ) – the apex marketing body of all the 18 district dairy unions of Gujarat that markets brand   - has registered a provisional turnover of Rs 29,220 crore in financial year 2017-18, registering a growth of 8% over the previous year, which was down 10% against 18% growth in the previous fiscal.

 However, Amul has now crossed the Rs 41,000 crore mark taking into account the provisional unduplicated group turnover of Amul brand which is 17% higher compared to last year. In the financial year 2016-17, GCMMF had registered Rs 27,043 crore annual turnover while brand Amul had crossed the Rs 35,000 crore mark. 
 
 The home grown dairy giant has registered a growth of 14 % over previous year in its branded consumer products including cheese, butter, milk beverages, paneer, cream, buttermilk and ‘dahi’ which have grown by 20 to 40 %. 
 
 “The growth that we have witnessed in this branded consumer products is unprecedented. We used to get 15 to 16 % growth in this product categories but it is for the first time in my career that I have witnessed such a high volume growth,” said R S Sodhi, GCMMF’s managing director. 
 
 “In fact, the volume sales growth of products like buttermilk and ‘dahi’ is almost 50% whereas in categories like cheese and milk beverages it is 30%,” he said, adding that pouch milk which is the highest turnover product has also shown double digit value growth. 
 
 “All our dairy products such as butter, paneer, UHT milk, flavoured milk, paneer and fresh cream have also shown double-digit growth even as prices of almost all products have remained unchanged since over last one year,” he said.
 
 “GCMMF’s 8% growth as compared to to 18% last year was largely due to the decline of 60% in the commodity sales as a result of depressed market conditions in the global and local market,” said Sodhi. As commodity prices of skimmed milk powder (SMP) have eased globally, SMP which was earlier sold at Rs 225 per kg is being sold in the range of Rs 140 per kg to Rs 150 per kg. 
 
 While other state level milk federations including Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are selling SMP at Rs 140 to Rs 145 per kg, Amul is not adhering to desperate sales. “We know that summer is coming and there is going to be more heat. We did not want to make desperate sales which would have ultimately led to losses to our farmers,” Sodhi said. 
 
 GCMMF has been achieving a compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) of more than 18% for the last eight years because of higher milk procurement, continuous expansion in terms of adding new markets, launching of new products and adding new milk processing capacities across the country.
 
 According to GCMMF officials, in order to reach interior markets, the federation started new branches in the country during the last five years while it also appointed several distributors at smaller towns and villages. 
 
 The 18 member unions of GCMMF who have a combined farmer member strength of more than 36 lakh across 18,700 villages of Gujarat are presently procuring an average of 211 lakh litres of milk per day (LLPD) which is 20 % higher compared to last year. 
 
 GCMMF’s chairman Ramsinh Parmar said that rapid expansion has clearly yielded rich dividends for Amul. “Based on estimated growth in market demand for Amul products and our future marketing efforts, we anticipate at least 20% CAGR growth in the business of Amul federation during the next five years,” he said. 
 
 
 
 Vadodara: R S Sodhi, managing director of GCMMF said that there is positive impact of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) on the dairy giant’s business. 
 
 “We are committed to achieve sales turnover of Rs 50,000 crore by 2020-21 which we will do by entering newer markets, enhancing our milk processing capacities and adding new products to our portfolio,” he said.
 
 
