MUMBAI: No sooner did the   team return from   after their   triumph earlier this month, their skipper   was summoned by Mumbai to compete in the   in Chennai. The 18-yearold featured in four matches, scoring 145 runs at an average of 36.25.

 
 So, how different was the last week in Chennai compared to the highs he experienced at the World Cup? “Well, it wasn’t very different. I came back from the World Cup and then started playing for Mumbai again. My game was the same because even in New Zealand we played the One-day format. We have qualified for the knock-outs and are heading to Delhi for the quarterfinals,” he said, post the unveiling of a ‘protein calculator’ by Protinex on Thursday.
 
 And, how did his Mumbai teammates react when he joined them after leading the Indian colts, who were simply relentless in their pursuit of victory? “They congratulated me. We had a team dinner and I had to treat them. So obviously I had to shell out some money (laughs)! It was nice,” he said.
 
 Having opened for Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy as well as the U-19 World Cup, Shaw batted at No. 3 in a couple of the Hazare Trophy games, managing half-centuries in both outings. Did he find things very different during those knocks? “When you open the batting, you have to read the pitch first up and try to understand the situation. But, at No. 3 you know what is happening out there. It makes things a little simple when it comes to reading the game,” he explained. But, what is the position he would prefer to continue batting at? “Opening,” was his singleword answer.
 
 Shaw has been bought by Delhi Daredevils for the 11th edition of the Indian Premier League, and he is looking forward to the experience of competing in the high-profile tournament. “It’s going to be a good experience for one-two months. The team has a lot of international players, the coach himself (Ricky Ponting and Pravin Amre). So, it’s going to be fun.” Is there anything he’s keen on asking the Aussie legend Ponting while he is with the team? “(Smiles) I have not decided yet. The tournament starts only in April, so it’s a long time away,” he said.
 
 
