PUNE: Cushion covers with pop-culture references, whimsical cutlery, upcycled furniture, bold colour play on the walls and unusual lighting — today’s home-owners are increasingly using quirky   to express their individuality.

 Speaking about her recently redecorated house, city-based advocate Anandita Shrivastav says, “I like to keep my house colourful and redecorate according to the season. For the summer, I have opted for floral patterns. My collection of bobbleheads have been a huge hit with the guests. I have also used cone-shaped cups, different lampshades and many other quirky elements to give my home a fresh look.”
 
 The raw look — which includes unconcealed lighting and unpolished wood — is also on trend. “Till 2014-2015, most people used plaster of paris to conceal wiring and lights. Now, people are opting for the raw look. This trend has been borrowed from restaurant decor. Use of scrap and recycling them into lampshades or artefacts is common these days. Today, people are not very concerned about symmetry and are going for abstract looks,” said  , the co-founder of The Mistri Tales, which manufactures quirky furniture.
 
 Oswal says they have upcycled an old shehnai into a lampshade and a cycle into a peacock artefact. “Such items are in demand. People come looking for unique elements for their homes. Social media exposure has also boosted people’s preference for quirky decor,” he said.
 
 “I had designed a few cushion covers for myself with quotes I could associate with. WHoever visited my place, liked them. People want to personalize the things around them. These are items that cannot be duplicated or aren’t available in bulk. People want to be different and the quirk element has come out of the need to be unique,” said  , who launched her brand Pankti Creation, after gauging the response to her own cushions.
 
 A city-based architect and interior designer said, “Homes are now designed keeping in mind the personalities of those living in them. Quirky means an unusual looking but a bold piece of furniture or decor that makes the place look like a one-of-its-kind living space. A lot of recycled materials and reused furniture are finding space in people’s homes. We had some used car tyres at home and instead of throwing them away, we got them cushioned and added wheels. They are now being used as pouffes. Guests find it hard to believe that these pouffes are actually made of tyres.”
 
 
