GURUGRAM: The ‘pink auto’ project — initiated by former DCP (traffic) Bharti Arora and then police commissioner Alok Mittal — was launched with 61 autos in 2015, in an attempt to curb rising numbers of sexual harassment cases in the city. 

 Three years later, the project seems to have failed, with   rarely seen on the streets and women still facing trouble commuting. MG Road and Huda City Centre metro stations used to have a specific booth for pink autos, which came equipped with a GPS system, a panic button and grilles separating the driver and passenger seats. However, these autos have gradually disappeared.
 
 Despite being a commercial hub and shopping destination, this correspondent found only one pink auto stationed outside the Metropolitan Mall on MG Road. The   pink auto   are now deprived of staff and equipment, and remain closed often. 
 
 “The frequency of their availability has decreased now. Initially, drivers were certified and we had good rapport. There even were separate lanes for pink autos. But nobody differentiates between pink and yellow autos any more. We get 5-6 customers a day. Even the pre-paid booth is shut,” said Sanjay, a pink auto driver. 
 
 “We also lost customers once app-based cab services became popular,” said Ravi, who switched from driving a pink auto to a yellow one.
 
 “Not a lot of focus was given to the project. We had taken full initiative to make it safer for women commuters, but drivers also were unable to survive due to such low passenger numbers. There was not enough awareness about pink autos either,” a traffic police officer said.
 
 For women commuters, lack of security during commutes is still an issue, though.“There is no point waiting for pink autos. Even the booth has shut down. To avoid arguing with these drivers, I pre-book an auto, but sometimes prices are too high for single passengers,” said Shruti, who studies in Delhi and travels every day from Huda City Center metro station.
 
 “The auto drivers have their own monopoly over the rates which are often too high even for shorter distances. You can hardly see pink autos near MG road anymore. Also, drivers are switching back to normal autos which means less safety for us,” said Mala, a regular commuter. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
