PARIS: A marvel on the tennis court, new mum   is now sporting her own superhero outfit as she makes her return to Grand Slam tennis.

 
 
 
 
 "I call it like my Wakanda-inspired catsuit. It's really fun," the American laughed, referencing the fictional Sub-Saharan African nation which is home to superhero Black Panther in Marvel Comics.
 
 "I feel like a warrior in it, like a warrior princess kind of, queen from Wakanda maybe," she said smiling, following her opening round victory over   at the   on Tuesday.
 
 "I'm always living in a fantasy world. I always wanted to be a superhero, and it's kind of my way of being a superhero. I feel like a superhero when I wear it."
 
 Behind the jokes, there is also a more serious reason for the choice of skin-tight bodysuit outfit for the American who only had her daughter last September.
 
 Serena has spoken about health concerns over blood clots in the days after giving birth, and on Tuesday said: "Yeah, the catsuit, I had a lot of problems with my blood clots, and, God, I don't know how many I have had in the past 12 months.
 
 
 
 
 "So it is definitely a little functionality to it. I have been wearing pants in general a lot when I play so I can keep, you know, the blood circulation going.
 
 "It's a fun suit, but it's also functional so I can be able to play without any problems."
 
 Next up for   is 17th seed Ashleigh Barty. The Australian would be forgiven for cursing her luck to have landed the most dangerous of floaters -- with or without super powers. 
 
 Few people can upstage Serena but even the 23-time Grand Slam champion knows one should never steal the show at a friend's wedding, not least a royal wedding.
 
 So the timing of Nike's advert "the Queen is back", launched to coincide with the first-time mother's return to the French Open, was, she said, a touch embarrassing.
 
 "Nike came up with this idea right when I decided I was going to come back. And so it's kind of interesting how it all tied into the wedding and, you know, then I felt a little awkward!" Serena told a news conference after stunning the   crowds with her all-in-black catsuit.
 
 "Now, you know, Meghan is royalty and I have known her for so many years, and I'm like, I'm not -- now she's a princess. A duchess, I should say, excuse me."
 
 "But anyway, it's all really cool."
 
 Serena joined  , senior royals and celebrities including Oprah Winfrey, George Clooney and   at the marriage of Prince Harry and his actress bride   earlier this month.
 
 The ceremony in a medieval chapel at   blended ancient English ritual with African American culture, breaking with tradition, in particular the passionate sermon of U.S. Episcopalian bishop Michael Bruce Curry that was far removed from the sombre tones of the Church of England. "You know, it was really exciting to see so much African-American culture impacted in the wedding, and I was really happy that Meghan wanted to incorporate that into it," Serena said.
 
 "I think it was just a whole cultural shift and change. It was seeing how far African-Americans have come, I thought it was an incredibly inspiring and beautiful and really motivating thing."
 
 But she poured cold water over British media stories that she ran a beer pong table at which she used her tennis skills to come out on top.
 
 "Oh, there was no beer pong. I don't know where this story (came from) -- I don't even drink beer."
 
