JAIPUR: The   situated private   is not as simple as it appeared initially.

 Senior officers of Jaipur police commissionerate on Tuesday said that the mastermind of the gang who was arrested by the   police with an illegal possession of demonetised currency of Rs 1.05 crore from the market was in heavy pressure to exchange them for bigger profits.
 
 Police said, robbery was planned to loot a good amount of new currency notes which were to be returned to those who had given demonetised currency to the mastermind. Even, the gang planned to rob more than the amount of demonetised money from the centralised chest branch.
 
 The arrest of Ravinder, Kapil and Rakesh by Punjab police on Monday along with demonetised currency of Rs 1.05 crore with two others at Kharar police station area near Mohali has given a fresh angle to the probe of Jaipur police.
 
 “We were following his activities and we had given specific inputs on his movements since he was wanted in our robbery case. As he is presently in the custody of Punjab police, he would be brought to Jaipur on production warrant for interrogation,” said a senior officer.
 
 In the preliminary investigations so far it appears that Ravinder and Kapil actually planned a bank robbery to dump Rs 1.05 demonetized currency into the bank and loot similar amount of new currency or more from the bank.
 
 Ravindra got in touch with three identified as Kishor, Lakhan and Sandip Bishnoi (all arrested natives of Jaipur) and briefed them to bring some youth interested in robbing a Hawala trader. Now, Sandip Bishnoi who was in touch with Om Prakash Bishnoi of Jodhpur asked him if he would arrange some youths. Om Prakash assigned the task to one   in Jodhpur,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Now, Bheparam asked the accused identified as Hanuman Bishnoi alias Hanuman Laden if he can arrange some boys and participate in robbing a Hawala trader.
 
 On Tuesday Hanuman Bishnoi alias Hanuman Laden was also been arrested by the police from the outskirts of Jaipur while he was attempting to flee towards Chattisgarh in a truck. He was initially seen as the mastermind. However, Manoj Chaudhary, additional deputy commissioner of police(South), refuting to it, said, He is responsible for bringing 13 men at the spot who attempted the robbery.He was never been briefed about a bank robbery as he was only told that some men needed to rob a Hawala trader in Jaipur. Since Hawala trader would be robbed there is no risk of arrest.”
 
 “He agreed for the robbery and brought 12 persons at the spot along with him and attempted the robbery which was foiled. Thus, he is not the mastermind but the leader of the gang who attempted robbery on February 6,” Chaudhary added.
 
 Prafful Kumar, additional commissioner of police (Crime), also admitted that there is some connection between the demonetised money seized and the robbery attempt. “We too are keen to know and it would be cleared only after interrogation of Ravindra,” he added.
 
 Police have already arrested 13 persons in this connection out of which 8 were into criminal conspiracy.
 
 “The interrogation of Ravindra, Om Prakash Bishnoi and Bheparam will actually solve the whole mystery. Ravindra would be brought in production warrant after Punjab police will sent him in judicial custody while Om Prakash and Bheparam are yet to be arrested,” said a senior police officer.
 
 
