Chandigarh: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Sunday asked the opposition parties to exercise restraint and not to hold any agitation over the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) Canal issue. “I have full faith in the Supreme Court and the state would soon get its due share of water through the SYL,” he added.

 Interacting with mediapersons here, Khattar said the Supreme Court had given its decision in favour of Haryana. Now the execution order is to be passed by the apex court.
 
 “We have full faith in the Supreme Court and the opposition too should have faith. The Presidential reference had been lying pending in the Supreme Court for more than 10 years. It is the present state government that strongly pleaded the case in the Supreme Court and ensured regular hearing. As a result of this, the apex court has given its decision in the favour of Haryana,” he added.
 
 In reply to a question, he said the opposition parties should refrain from inciting public sentiments, and instead, give constructive suggestions.
 
 When the present government had already announced that student union elections would be held in the next academic session, agitation by the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) on the issue was neither called for nor justifiable, Khattar said. Once consensus has been reached on any matter, petty politics should not be resorted to, he said, adding that we do what we say or promise.
 
 In reply to another question, the chief minister said that Anganwadi workers and helpers should call off their agitation in public interest. All their genuine demands would be sympathetically considered by the state government. The scheme was being run by the Central Government in partnership with the state government, he pointed out.
 
 The state government was already paying more than its share to these employees, yet if they had any concerns, these would be addressed and issues sorted out. Senior officers of the women and child development department held a meeting with the agitating employees three days ago to discuss their demands and address their concerns. “Soon, I will also convene a meeting in this regard and whatever possible would be done,” he added.
 
 Asked to comment on the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), Haryana, Khattar said the authority had been constituted under the Act as per the guidelines issued by the Government of India and it would help in redressing the grievances of both home buyers and developers.
 
 
