NAGPUR: Late in the morning of International Women’s Day, a small group of intrigued men walk into the Ajni Railway Station. They purposelessly buy platform tickets and hang around. Like many others, they have come to witness the country’s third all-woman station manned by about 36 women. 

 From luggage porters, commercial clerks to station manager and railway protection force (RPF) — the station is now a bastion of women from different parts of the country. On Thursday, they flagged-off a ‘journey’ which has offered them a ‘platform’ to prove their mettle. 
 
 Starting with a bang, their first day of work kept the women brigade on their toes. In between attending visitors, felicitation programs and giving interviews to media, they were finding time to set in their regular work. “We are here since 6am today and didn’t even get time to have lunch. With so many people coming to motivate us, we already feel empowered,” says chief commercial clerk  .
 
 There is no trace of scepticism on their happy faces. After being posted at “challenging” places earlier, the women staff believe there is a reason why they were chose to command the station. Commercial supervisor   says, “All these years, we have worked in tough conditions. During our postings in interior villages, there would be snakes waiting for us under our tables and in washrooms.”
 
 The front line and operating staff do not feel the need of a “male support”. Says   who works in operating, “It’s been two years since I am working in the yard. I flag down trains, take care of the shunting process, check trains’ parts and do everything as efficiently as my male counterparts.”
 
 Agrees station manager Madhuri Choudhary: “There is no work in railways which a woman cannot do.”
 
 Among the lot, the little worried lot is the RPF — women who are responsible for safeguarding the entire station. Being a satellite station, Ajni becomes deserted after 10pm. “Right now, we don’t even have a proper post. Night duties are going to be very tough as the station is frequented by drunkards and anti-social elements,” fears a newly married woman constable. 
 
 Though deployed at a critical place, these women have not been provided service weapons for emergency usage. “We keep discussing strategies on tackling miscreants but we know it won’t be enough. We are hoping to get male staffers for the night hours,” says a young constable. 
 
 They know that not all passengers are respectful of women but they also know how to give them a lesson. “Often while checking tickets, I come across men who don’t take me seriously. Sometimes, they raise their voice to intimidate me. But I raise my voice even higher and make sure they show their tickets,” says ticket examiner Priti Mogre.
 
 “Men know when and how to trouble us. They won’t do anything when the train has halted but, as soon as it starts moving, they will whistle and pass all kinds of inappropriate comments,” says a RPF constable who once ran after a moving train to slap one such sordid man.
 
 With such valiant women, Ajni station definitely seems to be in safe hands. 
 
 Also in safe hands on Thursday were passengers on the   (between Nagpur and Gondia) and the Nagpur-Bhusawal Express (between Nagpur and Amla) which had women loco pilots, ticket checking staff etc.
 
 
