I never saw a South Indian boy doing belly dance. Are there male belly dancers here? I am very surprised,” remarked renowned belly dancer   when she saw Telugu boy   at a workshop held in Kondapur recently. He was one of the two boys in a batch of 50 belly dancers, Eshan Hilal from Delhi being the other. But then, this native of Vijayawada is no stranger to such reactions. “I was in college when I first picked up   and ever since, wherever I have performed, people have had similar things to say. Telugu boys doing belly dance is very, very rare. I have been performing in Hyderabad for a while now and I am yet to meet another guy who belly-dances,” says the 24-year-old, who works in an IT firm in the city. 

 Today, Sravan is an established practitioner of the art but the journey hasn’t been an easy one. “Even today, I face discrimination at my office as colleagues call me all kinds of names. They do not have the guts to accept me as I am. They are hypocrites, who enjoy watching me on stage but talk behind my back. But I’ve stopped caring about these things and have moved on,” he says. 
 In a tete-e-tete with Hyderabad Times, the LGBTQI activist opens up about the discrimination he faces on a daily basis for being a male belly dancer, why he believes men can make excellent belly dancers and how the dance form has become his weapon to fight gender stereotypes. Excerpts:
 
 
 It was sometime in 2010, when I was studying at the SRR & CVR Government Degree College, Vijayawada that I first came across a belly dancing video. I used to pursue folk and western dance back then. But when I saw this female belly dancer shimmy, it was love at first sight — with the dance form, not the dancer (laughs). I was awestruck by the way the dancer gracefully controlled her body as she performed. 
 I thought to myself, “If she can do it, why can’t I?” 
 And, I started practising on Shakira’s Waka Waka. Initially, I thought it would be very easy. I thought belly dance was just about moving your hands and legs to a rhythm. But after attending my first workshop, I realised how difficult it is. I couldn’t even hold a proper posture. To be a good belly dancer you must have utmost control over your body. Your mind needs to focus on the music and only then you can do a proper belly dance. With time, I got better and gradually began performing at different events as well. Today, I also post my dance videos online, and they garner good response.
 
 
 
 I studied B.Sc (computers) and used to represent my college at youth festivals. Initially, I was a mime artiste and used to pursue other dance forms. But when I enrolled in PVP Siddhartha Institute of Technology (in Vijayawada) for MCA, I didn’t get many chances to perform as it is an engineering college and no one actually encouraged me there. So, I joined the Rotary club in Vijayawada and started performing at their events. A lot of people appreciated me but at the same time, I also faced discrimination and bullying. People used to taunt me calling names like hijra. They had serious reservations about me practicing belly dancing being a man. 
 
 
 
 I told them that dance is an artform and it cannot be confined to any particular gender. If a girl can do hip-hop, a boy can perform Kathak and other classical dances, why can’t I do a belly dance? I don’t understand these stereotypes. When a girl does things which boys usually do, they call her a tomboy and people are okay with it. Parents too support tomboys because they see no harm if a girl does boy-ish things. But why can’t they treat a boy the same way when he wants to pursue an art form that’s considered ‘girly’ for some reason? 
 
 
 
 It was when I was working in Bhubaneswar that I first read about LGBTQI activism and how these activists are fighting for the rights of this marginalised community and demystifying gender stereotypes. That’s how I joined a few of these organisations, and volunteered for the cause. Seeing my work, my mother too has become supportive of transpersons and their rights. But then again, there are people who say, ‘you are performing at LGBT events... you might be gay’. Why kind of a ridiculous notion is that? Does that mean animal rights activists are all animals? Haters can hate, but I will continue working for this cause that’s close to my heart. Attitudes towards gender minorities are changing, but there is a long way to go. in a few years, I hope to see section 377 removed.
 
 
 
 More than the guys, I have a message for parents. If you think your child is ‘different’, respect that difference. We are all born unique and you should be happy about us just the way we are. Don’t impose stereotypes on young boys and girls. If a boy or a girl likes a particular colour or an art form which doesn’t fit into gender stereotypes, there is nothing wrong with it. Give people the space they need to be themselves and pursue their passion.
 
 
