LUDHIANA: The excise and taxation department is assessing nearly 5,000 tax returns filed by Ludhiana-based companies, leaving business owners in Punjab’s industrial hub angry.

 Some of the cases that have been are as old as six years. The office-bearers of   have called out the move, describing it as “unjustified” and against the spirit of ease of doing business. They have even claimed that the department had opened 25,000 old cases for assessment, not 5,000.
 
 Miffed over the action, several business associations have decided to take up the issue with chief minister Captain  . The state secretary of Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM), Mohinder  , said the excise and taxation department’s action was unprecedented and there was not a single state in India where cases older than three years were assessed. “It can only happen in Punjab,” he said. 
 
 Defending the department's action, excise and taxation deputy commissioner Pawan Garg said they were proceeding according to law. “These cases were already listed in our records to be assessed. Moreover, these are only 5,000 cases opened for assessment; this is hardly 4-5% of our total registered dealers. Also, as per law and provisions of Punjab VAT Act, excise and taxation department has authority to reopen cases which are up to six years old,” he said.
 
 However, Aggarwal called the move an attempt by the department’s officials to “harass and fleece businessmen who have been paying their taxes honestly”. “Our association has decided to approach the chief minister and apprise him of the entire issue. Ever since it came to power in Punjab, the the   has been trying to showcase Punjab as a heaven for industry. But they do not have any control over our breaucrats, who are on the lookout to destroy trade and industry,” he said. 
 
 PPBM general secretary Sunil Mehra said he had been getting complaints of excise and taxation officials regularly harassing their members and other businessmen. “In some cases, the department is opening more than one case of a single business for different years; this is mere harassment. We will not sit silently and take up the matter with the chief minister for action against officials on whose behest such action is being initiated,” Mehra added.
 
 
