KOLKATA: Parental pressure and a negative perception of life may be driving some youngsters to despair and turning them suicidal, felt psychiatrists. The fear of not being able to live up to expectations were taking a toll on young minds, and unless freed from this pressure and fear, children can’t excel in any field, they argued.

 Parents were the most important people in a youngster’s life, said psychiatrist  . “Often, parents humiliate children or threaten them saying they will abandon them. They may also be threatened with being sent to hostels if they fail to do well in studies. This builds up tension in children’s minds and sometimes drive them to suicide for even trivial reasons. While the immediate trigger is noticed, the fact that the child may have been under sustained pressure is ignored,” said Ram.
 
 ‘Frustration tolerance’ has come down drastically among youngsters today, claimed psychiatrist  . They refuse to accept harsh criticism and often fail to handle emotional upheavals, Ray felt. “Soft parenting has changed children’s attitude over the years. Till about a decade ago, parents could be very harsh with children without worrying about consequences. But with time, interaction with children has turned more sensitive. But some parents continue to be exceptions and their children find it hard to accept when they find that their peers are being treated better,” explained Ray.
 
 There is enough evidence to suggest that harsh parenting can turn youngsters suicidal, said Ram. “As adults, we may find a child’s reason to commit suicide very trivial and immature, but he or she may have felt isolated within the family due to harsh parenting. Unfortunately, parents know their children best and are often aware that being cruel or unforgiving is driving the youngsters to despair. Yet, they can’t stop for they are not acquainted with better parenting methods,” Ram said.
 
 The best way to motivate a child was to become a friend, said Ray. “The days of rigid parenting are over. Parents must learn to be flexible and sometimes give in to their children’s demands,”he said. Faced with strict parents at home, thousands of youngsters today have to depend on virtual relationships for emotional sustenance, he added.
 
 
