  : Two trekkers from   and Taka Tamut - have climbed   last week without the support of Sherpa guides. Tekseng had also climbed till Camp IV (26,000ft) without using supplemental oxygen, another rare feat. 

 Tekseng belongs to Yingkiong in Upper Siang district and Tamut is from Jomlo Mongku in Siang district. With the Nepal government having banned climbing without local Sherpa guides earlier this year, the duo had set out on their journey with two Sherpas. One of the guides, however, was hit on the head by falling rocks at Camp III (23,625ft) and had to be airlifted to Kathmandu for a surgery. At Camp IV, the other developed altitude sickness, thus disabling him to climb further.
 
 Undeterred by the setback, the Arunachalee climbers carried on with their expedition and after a gruelling 13-hour climb from Camp IV (South Col) - the final stage of the climb also known as the 'Death Zone' - conquered the world's highest peak at 9am on May 24. Tekseng and Tamut are the eight and ninth from the state to scale Mount Everest. 
 
 Sports and youth affairs joint director Ramesh Lingi said, "The decision to continue upwards without Sherpas was very risky, but it has turned out to be fruitful as they have created history with this heroic example. They also created a record for not using supplementary oxygen till Camp IV." 
 
 Tekseng and Tamut scaled Mt Stok Kangri (20,187 feet) in Ladakh as their preparatory expedition before the Everest expedition. They had trained for the last four years under the guidance of ace mountaineer K Romeo Meetei, adventure cell in-charge of the youth affairs directorate. 
 
 "The department has sponsored three state mountaineers this year, all of whom have achieved cent percent success," Lingi added.
 
 Though   and Tenzing Norgay are acknowledged to have made the first summit of the peak in 1953, it is thought that Reinhold Messner's climb in 1978 is the first 'true summit', as it was done without the help of Sherpa guides and supplemental oxygen. 
 
 
