PATNA: Patna University ( ) vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh on Tuesday cancelled the election of MA political science student Divyanshu Bhardwaj and   student Yoshita Patwardhan as president and vice-president, respectively of the Patna University Students’ Union ( ) on charges of furnishing wrong affidavits and declarations while filing their nomination papers. 

 The PUSU elections were held on February 17 and the results declared in the wee hours of February 18.
 
 According to a PU notification issued here on Tuesday, the university has also initiated steps for cancelling the admission of Divyanshu. The VC has ordered that a showcause notice be served to Yoshita for submitting wrong affidavit. The Magadh Mahila College administration will also be asked to explain how it forwarded the student’s application without verifying the facts. 
 
 The VC said the decision to cancel the elections to the post of president and vice-president was taken on the basis of inquiry committee reports submitted to him on Monday. The VC had constituted a three-member committee headed by pro-VC Dolly Sinha in the last week of February to inquire into the allegations levelled against the newly elected president, vice-president and joint secretary of PUSU.
 
 Singh said following the cancellation of election of both president and vice-president, PUSU will now be led by its duly elected general secretary Sudhanshu Kumar Jha, a student of Patna Science College. The volunteers of different student organisations, which had levelled charges against the winners, have urged the university to countermand the entire election held in February and hold a fresh election on all posts.
 
 The inquiry committee report said Divyanshu’s candidature for the post of president was not tenable because he took admission in Himalayan University, Itanagar, in the same academic session (2014-17) during which he was a student of B N College under PU. This is clear cut violation of the UGC directive dated January 15, 2016 to the effect that a student can’t pursue two courses from different universities in one academic session.
 
 The report further reveals that vice-president elect Yoshita concealed the fact regarding her academic arrear. She was admitted to BA Part I honours course in Magadh Mahila College in 2016, but failed in the examination held in 2017. She was, however, promoted to the Part II honours class and suppressed this fact in her nomination paper.
 
 However, the inquiry committee did not find any irregularity with the election of Md Aszad to the post of joint secretary.
 
 
