NEW DELHI: In the current springtime atmosphere between India and China, India will host a significant Chinese leader this weekend. Song Tao, chief of the international relations department of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) will visit India between March 18-21 to meet leaders of different Indian political parties.

 
 Song Tao is certain to meet the leaders of   and other Left parties as well as Sonia and   of the   party. He will also reach out to Amit Shah, president of the ruling  , which boasts of having more members on their rolls than the CCP.
 
 Song Tao’s visit is interesting for several reasons. 
 
 As chief of the party’s foreign policy department, Song Tao holds a very important place particularly given his closeness to President  . Second, there is speculation in China that as Xi consolidates not only his position but streamlines governance, there is a chance that the international relations department of the Communist party would join forces with other entities doing similar and related work. This could give Song Tao a much bigger profile.
 
 Song Tao has been Xi’s special envoy also to North Korea and responsible for handling this crucial though unpredictable relationship, particularly as it enters a more sensitive phase.
 
 Song Tao’s visit to India also coincides with larger internal changes inside China — Wang Qishan is expected to become a vice-premier and be the pointperson for US relations. Yang Jiechi is expected to be next in line, followed by current foreign minister Wang Yi, who might become state councillor in Yang’s place, as Yang has been elevated to the Politburo.
 
 Song Tao has been a career diplomat and served in India, speaks English and generally regarded favourably in the upper echelons of the party. India will be particularly interested in him because New Delhi wants to develop an alternative line to the top leadership in China, in addition to the foreign ministry.
 
 One of the takeaways from 2017 Doklam crisis was the hardline, almost hostile role played by the Chinese foreign ministry under Wang Yi, which issued almost daily threats of overwhelming force and destruction that would be visited on India. It needed diplomacy at a much higher level in the Chinese system that finally led to the resolution.
 
