NEW DELHI:   is on the cusp of becoming one of the most important Delhi   interchange hubs of the city.

 A shopper’s delight, the south Delhi locality is currently connected to the metro network by the Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Escorts Mujesar), with the   located parallel to Lala Lajpat Rai Road. By June, it will become an interchange station with the opening of the underground Lajpat Nagar station of the Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar). 
 
 The area will become a major metro hub when the 7.69km-long Lajpat Nagar-Saket G Block corridor of Phase IV is completed, which will come up parallel to the existing Lajpat Nagar station.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “Lajpat Nagar will be one of the few interchange stations in the metro network — and the most important one in south Delhi — with three corridors converging at one place when Phase IV is completed. At present, only Kashmere Gate is an integration point for three different corridors,” a   Rail Corporation official said. 
 
 “The footfall at the interchange station is expected to be huge and it will also reduce pressure on other interchange stations as commuters won’t need to take long detours,” he said.
 
 People coming from west Delhi using the Pink Line from areas like Punjabi Bagh, Rajouri Garden and Mayapuri will be able to travel directly to Lajpat Nagar. The same applies to those coming from north Delhi areas, such as Majlis Park, Azadpur, Shalimar Bagh, Keshav Puram and Netaji Subhash Place. Commuters will be able to change trains at Lajpat Nagar to travel to Faridabad or central Delhi and the Walled City.
 
 “It will be an underground facility and connected with the existing elevated station through a 90m-long foot-over-bridge. There will be paid-area-to-paid-area connectivity and escalators will be installed near the FOB,” a DMRC spokesperson said. “The new station will be 15m-deep whereas the existing one is at a height of about 12 metres,” he said.
 
 The station will have two additional entry/exit points, catering to Lajpat Nagar market as well as the residential areas. Another entry/exit point will be provided near the entry/exit point of the existing station. It will open up right near the Lajpat Nagar market. “With the expansion of the station as an interchange facility, shoppers from all parts of the city will be able to travel directly to Lajpat Nagar,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The Pink Line will not only bring the famous central market of Lajpat Nagar closer to shoppers but the corridor itself will string together four of the most popular shopping hubs of Delhi. Apart from Lajpat Nagar, the Pink Line will bring together Sarojini Nagar, INA and South Extension, forming a chain of four Metro stations, which will cater to prominent market areas of the city. “These stations will be of huge benefit to commuters,” the spokesperson said.
 
 The new station has been aesthetically designed with ample open space, including a public plaza between the upcoming and existing Lajpat Nagar stations. It will showcase first-of-its-kind artwork, selected after an open competition. DMRC will also use digitally printed glass work. 
 
 The panels next to tracks, which usually have space for advertisement, have been covered with “jaali” artwork, made of glass reinforced concrete. Space has been earmarked inside the station for commercial purposes, too. By using recycled material as much as possible, DMRC hopes to get a platinum rating for the structure from the Indian Green Building Council.
 
 Constructing the underground station was not without its challenges. As the tunnel of the new station passes below the pillars of the existing Violet Line station, extra precaution had to be taken because the gap between the pillars and the tunnels was just one metre. “The drive of tunnel boring machine between existing pillars was critical,” the spokesperson said.
 
 
