Punjabi singer   brought the curtains down at  , the annual cultural festival of  . The performance, which started late, was full of energy, drama and selfies for the students of IIIT-D. In between his performance, the singer also spoke about his first heartbreak and danced with the crowd not only to his songs, but also to other Punjabi songs like ' ' and ' '.

  
  The singer clicked selfies with audience (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 As the singer started his performance, he asked the crowd, "Hello Delhi, how are you guys? Thank you for loving my songs." Before singing ' ', the song that made him a star overnight, he added, "After this song, I had no money to continue singing, but this number became a hit and my musical career is still on because of you guys."
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  Harrdy Sandhu performing at IIIT (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 Harrdy not only sang his recent tracks like ' ' and ' ', but also kept the crowd entertained with songs like ' ' and 'Kabira'. Before singing 'Mayeri' from Euphoria, he mentioned, "Kisi ka kabhi break-up hua hai? Meri girlfriend mujhe class X mein chhodhke chali gayi thi aur tab main Mayeri sunta tha." Before concluding the gig, the singer also took a photo with the crowd at the college.
 
  
  The show started late, but the wait was worth it for the students
 
 
 
 
 The students, who waited for Harrdy for more than two hours, told us that it was all worth the wait. "Organizing Odyssey'18 was an exhilarating experience. It gave me an opportunity to learn, grow, and work with many successful teams and Harrdy Sandhu's performance made for a perfect ending of the fest," said Lohit Parmar, a final-year student and convener of the organizing committee of the fest.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Harrdy's performance was full of energy, drama and selfies for the students of IIIT-D (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
  
 
  
  Students enjoying the performance at their annual event (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 Gurek Singh, a third-year student who was handling operations at the fest, also got a chance to dance with Harrdy. He added, "After four months of rigorous efforts and hard work, all I wanted to hear was 'Naah' by the singer."
 
 
  
  Audience during the event (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  
 
