PUDUCHERRY: All the   under government   barring one (under physically handicapped category) in a government college, two unaided private medical   (minority institutions) and an unaided private medical college, have been allotted for candidates seeking admissions into postgraduate medical   for the academic year 2018-19.

 Similarly, all the seats under government and management quotas in a government dental college and a private dental college were allotted for candidates seeking admission into postgraduate dental courses. A lone seat under NRI category was not filled.
 
 The centralised admission committee ( ) on Monday released the provisional lists of students, who were allotted postgraduate medical and dental seats under government and management quotas for the academic year 2018-19. The committee allotted all the seats under government quota in Indira Gandhi government medical college and research institute (three seats), Pondicherry institute of medical sciences (Pims) (religious minority), 25, and Sri Venkateshwaraa medical college, (SVMC) (linguistic minority), 19, for the candidates featuring in the provisional lists evolved by it.
 
 Thirty-six seats in Sri Manakula Vinayakar medical college (SMVMC) have been allotted for the candidates. A lone seat under physically-handicapped category in SMVMC was not filled.
 
 Thirty-eight seats of the total 81 under management quota in Pims and SVMC fell vacant after the Centac released the provisional lists after the first round. Twenty-three of the total 25 seats in Pims and 15 seats of the total 19 in SVMC under management quota fell vacant after the first round. 
 
 Pims has to fill up the vacant seats with the students of the religious minority (Christians) of the Union territory of Puducherry while SVMC with the students of linguistic minority (Telugu) of the Union territory. If management seats remain vacant in Pims and SVMC even after first two rounds of counselling, they will be filled up as open merit management quota seats during the mop-up counselling based on Neet-PG 2018 rank among the Puducherry domicile candidates.
 
 Any seats remaining vacant thereafter have to be filled up as management quota seats from all India merit list. All the 37 seats in SMVMC under management quota were allotted seats under management quota on all India basis.
 
 All the 13 seats under government quota (five in Mahatma Gandhi government postgraduate institute of dental sciences and eight in Mahe institute of dental sciences, Minds) and eight seats under management quota in Minds were allotted for candidates seeking admission into postgraduate dental courses. One seat under NRI category was not filled.
 
 Centac coordinator (admissions) Rudra Goud said the provisional lists were evolved through a computer module based on merit, reservation and preferences of the candidates. Goud said objections, if any, must be sent by email to centacprof@gmail.com or submitted directly to the committee’s office before 3pm on Tuesday. 
 
 
