MUMBAI: Wife of   on Tuesday identified his body at   based on his belongings. His body was disfigured when a   Dauphin helicopter with seven onboard crashed over the   on Saturday.

 A diving team had recovered his body on Monday while searching for the wreckage of the  . Capt Katoch is survived by his wife, Poonam, and two children.
 
 Poonam along with her relatives reached the hospital around 11 am. Initially, her relatives entered the mortuary and identified the body while she waited outside anxiously. Relatives checked the items found on the body—both were kept in separate bags—and confirmed that they did belong to Capt Katoch.
 
 Later, Poonam checked the body and then touched each of the belongings found with it. She too confirmed that the body was that of her husband. Subsequently, the family claimed the body to performed the last rites. 
 
 Pawan Hans employees reached Cooper Hospital before Poonam did to coordinate with the police and hospital to complete the formalities to claim the body. They suggested his family not to speak to media. 
 
 Capt Katoch’s face was disfigured and his right hand was cut off. The body and the hand were found separately. His family initially identified his body with the help of finger rings in his left hand, along with his uniform and a wallet found on the body. They also identified the hand based on another ring in the right hand. It was only after that they asked Poonam to visit the hospital on Tuesday. 
 
 There were seven persons on board the helicopter. Body of six persons had been recovered and identified by their family members (including Capt Katoch). Remains of a body are still to be identified in the hospital. The family of V K Bindu Lal Babu, one of the five ONCG executives on-board the ill-fated helicopter, have given samples for their DNA which will be matched with the body.
 
 The helicopter, with two pilots and five ONGC deputy general managers, was on its way to a platform at Mumbai High when the aircraft went incommunicado around 10.35am. Based on the state of the wreckage and passenger remains, aviation experts suspect the helicopter might have exploded.
 
 
