HYDERABAD: Despite the huge cash inflow from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) , a severe crunch continues at 
  . 

 
 The reason -- a fear of losing their deposit due to the   under the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance (FRDI) Bill -- has triggered massive withdrawals in the two states. The bank employees association is also alleging that politicians are stocking up Rs 2000 notes ahead of the next general elections in 2019.
 
 The  , aimed at limiting the fallout of failure of institutions like banks, has a bail-in clause wherein depositors will have to bear a part of the resolution cost by a corresponding reduction in claims. Despite clarification by the Union Government regarding the bail-in clause, apprehensions and unease exist. 
 
 Reffering to the crisis, Telangana finance minister Etala Rajender recently informed the Telangana Legislative Council, “The crunch is due to inadequate supply of currency by RBI, reduction in cash inflow from the public, high demand for higher denomination notes. ATMs are going dry and banks are also not giving cash. RBI officials are saying cash going out of banks is not coming back in Telangana and Andhra.”
 
 An analysis of transactions revealed that members of the salaried class, who usually draw only Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 in the first phase of every month, have begun withdrawing the entire amount from ATMs immediately after the salary is credited.
 
 State Bank of India (SBI) Chief General Manager Swaminathan J told TOI ,"The average withdrawal is around Rs 15,000 to Rs 20,000 now at any ATM transaction. The salaried class is withdrawing the entire amount as the cash availability is getting tough."
 
 
 
 Worries about the   have made residents line up outside ATMS. V Jagannatha Rao, a retired employee of Karnataka state undertaking MSIL, said that for the past few weeks he has been facing problems getting his hands on some of his own cash as the ATM he frequents close to his home has been sporting the ‘no cash’ sign.
 
 “For the past few weeks we have been facing a problem getting cash from the Neredmet branch ATM for least two to three days a week. The bank officials express their inability to do anything about it as they are not receiving adequate cash,” said the Safilguda resident, who was spotted at the Bank of India’s Neredmet branch ATM earlier this week.
 
  
  
 
 Mehboob Basha, who resides at Vinayak Nagar in Neredmet reiterated how difficult it has been to get ATMs to cough up cash. “Since morning I have visited seven to eight ATMs but could not find any cash. The fear of the Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance Bill 2017 (FRDI Bill) bail-in clause has led to the public withdrawing their deposits from the bank,” said Basha.
 
 Downed shutters and ‘no cash’ and ‘out of service’ signs plastered across several ATMs in Hyderabad, Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada and rural AP and Telangana have thrown life out of gear for many in the two Telugu states.
 
 While the cash crunch is less acute in core Hyderabad, other parts of the city and its fringes as well as rural Telangana and AP have been reeling under a severe shortage of currency, with ATMs being filled with cash only once a month in some places.
 
 Around 70% of ATMs in places such as Tarnaka, Moula Ali, Kushaiguda, Sainikpuri, Neredmet, ECIL, AS Rao Nagar, Nagarjuna Nagar, Kamala Nagar, Dammaiguda were running dry.
 
  
  
 
 
 A bank run (also known as a run on the bank) occurs when a large number of people withdraw their money from a bank. Even though there is no immediate risk to banks a prolonged bank run can affect banks adversely. 
 
 Although the government has repeatedly issued clarifications on the controversial bail-in clause under the FRDI Bill, in the wake of the recent banking-related scams that have come to light, such as the massive PNB fraud, people are panicking. In these two southern states, in particular, people have made a run on banks, withdrawing money from ATMs and banks, fearing the banks could collapse.
 
 The FRDI Bill aims to set up a Resolution Corporation which will monitor financial companies, categorise them as per their risk profiles and step in to prevent them from going bankrupt by writing down their liabilities.
 
 The fear among people stems from the bill's bail-in clause which empowers the RC to rescue a failing financial institution through the help of creditors and depositors money. Bail-in is, however, just one of the many options to rescue a financial institution on the brink of failure.
 
 Barring money which is insured, the rest of the money can be subjected to the bail-in clause. However, bail-in can be invoked only if you had given prior consent at the time of signing the deposit forms. Currently, only a small amount of Rs 1 lakh of bank deposits is insured in case of a bank going bankrupt.
 
 There is, however, no need to panic as banks in India in the last 50 years have hardly been liquidated. Also, under the FRDI Bill, the Resolution Corporation will be empowered to increase this limit to whatever it chooses. So, at least that much will be protected.
 
 The government has said that under the FRDI Bill, the claims of uninsured depositors (that is, beyond ₹1 lakh) would be given precedence over the claims of unsecured creditors and government dues. 
 
 The government has clarified that the bail-in clause will not be used for public sector banks (PSBs). It also reiterated its implicit guarantee of PSB solvency. In other words, it said that it “stands ready” to bail-out the PSBs if needed, removing the need for a bail-in.
 
 The government had also made it clear that the cancellation of the liability of a depositor beyond the insured amount cannot take place without his or her prior consent. So, the bail-in clause can only be used in private banks, and that too only if the customers allow it.
 
 Further, the use of the bail-in clause will be subject to government scrutiny and parliamentary oversight. In the event of a bail-in, the RC will have to ensure that depositors get back at least as much money as they would have if the bank had been liquidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Bankers have urged members of the public against accelerated withdrawals from their savings bank accounts and deposits.
 
 State Bank of India's (SBI) Hyderabad circle chief general manager Swaminathan J has advised customers against accelerated withdrawals and also cautioned them against investing in high-risk instruments like chit funds or stashing the cash in bank lockers or at home due to which their money is sitting idle.
 
 "There is no need to panic. The Financial Resolution and Deposit Insurance (FRDI) Bill is still a Bill and the government has clarified on the bail-in clause and said that depositors will be protected. There is no history of depositors facing a situation where they have lost their deposits in public sector banks. All their deposits are safe and secure," Swaminathan said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 People are, however, closing fixed deposits and withdrawing money from saving bank accounts.
 
 This has led to banks imposing unauthorised rationing on cash disbursals, ranging from Rs 20,000 to Rs 40,000 per day per person in their home branches. Many bank customers said they have lost faith in the banking system in the wake of the proposed FRDI Bill and frauds like the PNB scam.
 
 “When the government slaps a surcharge on more than four ATM withdrawals a month, people are forced to withdraw additional amounts to avoid paying surcharge on the fifth. Now, everybody keeps extra cash at home for emergencies,” said AM Dayal of Habiguda in Adilabad district.
 
 
 
 To deal with the severe cash crunch, banks here have been forced to move cash from neighbouring states over the past two months to replenish ATMs and disburse money to customers waiting in snaking queues at their branches.
 
 While Telangana had to ship in cash from Maharashtra and Kerala, Andhra Pradesh did so from Odisha and Tamil Nadu. So severe is the cash crunch that despite efforts made by banks to replenish cash, currency is available in ATMs of big banks only 60% of the time on any given day, while some banks have stopped ATM services for the past three months.
 
 Social security pensioners like Aasara and National Rural Employment Guarantee Act works too have been hit in Telangana as people have to visit post offices multiple times for money as they get their money supply from banks.
 
 There is also a severe shortage of Rs 2,000 denomination currency notes as they are neither being supplied by the RBI since September 2017 to banks nor are they coming back from customers in the form of deposits.
 
 “With the approval of RBI we moved cash from Maharashtra and Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala to Hyderabad to tackle the situation of accelerated withdrawals from ATMs and bank branches in January and February, but did not do so in March. We usually try to ensure that cash is available in ATMs at least 94 per cent of the time. Post demonetisation, following the cash crunch, we had taken several measures to ensure that ATMs had cash available for at least 85 per cent of the time but in January 2018, this came down to 70 per cent and is now hovering around 60 per cent,” SBI Hyderabad circle chief general manager Swaminathan J told TOI.
 
 SBI has 2,200 ATMs, of which 1,500 are operated and maintained by the bank and 700 are maintained by third parties with the cash being supplied by SBI. However, currently only 1,400 to 1,500 of its ATMs are operational.
 
  
  
 
 There are no deposits of Rs 2,000 notes by customers, and we have the least reserves of Rs 2,000 currency notes,” Swaminathan said, adding that Reserve Bank of India is primarily supplying Rs 200 and Rs 500 denomination notes.
 
 
 Banks are all set to face a tougher challenge from April 19 as the Telangana government is going to disburse cheques towards input assistance to farmers per acre of land held by them.
 
 The Telangana government has decided to give 4,000 per acre for the Kharif season from April to 71.75 lakh farmers. "A total amount of 6,000 crore will need to be disbursed from April 19 as part of the scheme," said Swaminathan
 
 Six banks having branches in mandal headquarters have been designated to disburse the cash. The Telangana government had written to the Centre and RBI seeking cash for the scheme.
 
 
