JALANDHAR: After Indian government officials were barred from entering 14 Canadian gurdwaras, they might face a similar ban in some gurdwaras in the UK and other European countries.

 Last month in an unusual move, 14 gurdwara management committees in Canada’s Ontario province had imposed a ban on the entry of Indian officials in the gurdwaras under their control. These gurdwaras used a law against trespassing to ban entry of the Indian government representatives.
 
 Now, the Sikh Federation (UK) is proposing to ban entry of Indian officials in gurdwaras in the UK and a few European countries “in any official capacity.”
 
 As in the case of the Canadian ban, the UK group has made it clear that anyone could visit the gurdwaras in personal capacity as a member of the Sangat (congregation).
 
 A draft declaration, which will have to be signed by the gurdwara committees, has been circulated in gurdwaras in the UK and some countries of mainland Europe for a discussion on the issue. “Sikhs in the diaspora are fed up with Indian government officials and their agents increasingly interfering in our institutions and Sikh affairs, undermining of Sikh campaigns for greater rights and internal matters for the Sikh community,” Amrik Singh, chair of the Sikh Federation, said in a statement.
 
 The Federation of Sikh Organisations, an umbrella body of which the Sikh Federation (UK) is a member, will discuss the proposed declaration this weekend. The group aims to ban entry of the Indian officials this month itself, according to a statement issued by the Sikh Federation’s Gurjeet Singh.
 
 “Eight regional gurdwara councils across the UK and organisations like the   (UK) are also to be approached to encourage gurdwaras, who are members, to become signatories to the declaration,” the statement said.
 
 The group claims it can secure support of at least 60-70 gurdwaras in the UK and hoped to increase the number to 100 in the UK. “Contacts in 15 countries have suggested a similar ban can be imposed in many of the 100-odd gurdwaras in the mainland Europe. When this is combined with gurdwaras from  , USA, Australia, New Zealand and elsewhere in the diaspora, the Indian government officials could face ban on entry in over 300 gurdwaras,” the Federation claimed.
 
 According to the draft of the proposed declaration, the Indian officials “need to understand their presence will make members of the Sikh community uncomfortable due to their role of working or representing the Indian government. They can, therefore, be expected to be challenged by other members of the Sangat and asked to explain their role in anti-Sikh activities.”
 
 The issue of arrest of British citizen   in the case of targeted killings has also been raised by these organizations. They claim Sikhs are being targeted by the Indian government when they visit Punjab.
 
 “The latest tactic by the Indian authorities of targeting Sikhs from the diaspora when they visit the Sikh homeland, as demonstrated by the case of British citizen Jagtar Singh Johal, has broken the camel’s back. We have been in discussions with the British police and government officials in the UK to see whether arrests and prosecutions are possible against agents reporting to the Indian government officials,” Amrik Singh claimed.
 
 “In Germany, in recent years, we have seen the authorities to their credit collect evidence, make arrests and prosecute agents reporting to the Indian government officials on Sikhs who are German citizens,” he added.
 
 The Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee (DSGMC) president,  , said no one could be banned from entering any gurdwara. “Doors of a gurdwara can’t be shut on anybody, but the gurdwara management committees can control stage and may not allow somebody to use it,” he said.
 
