CHENNAI: A rich and advanced legal system based on dharma prevailed in ancient India much before and after the Gupta period (320 to 550 AD). Apparently, a judge was selected based on his knowledge in 18 titles of law and 8,000 sub-divisions of them, besides his proficiency in logic (tarka), interpretation (mimamsa) and Vedas. “If king directs a judge to give an unjust decision in a case, the judge should beseech the king against the order and dissuade him from it. The power of a judge couldn’t be questioned even by the king,” according to N L Rajah, a senior advocate and an expert on writs, arbitration and consumer protection laws.

 Speaking on “A brief outline of the origins of our legal system” as part of the Tamil Heritage Trust’s monthly lecture on Saturday, Rajah said, “The first clear statement of rights is found in Kautilya’s ‘Arthashastra’, where justice was assured as including a fair trial and the right to produce witnesses. Citizens had a right to trade and commerce, right to inheritance and to get standard wages. Women’s right to ‘sridhana’ (women’s property) was recognised as was the right to widow remarriage and in some cases even the right to divorce the husband.” 
 
 The   Smriti classifies courts as shaasita (where the king himself presided), mudrita (appointed by the king and using his seal), apratishtitha (circuit court) and pratisthita (established in village or town). “The court presided by the king was the highest one. There were also courts appointed (ashikrita) by the king, presided by the chief justice (pradvivaka). Next to these came in the descending order – gana (assembly), shreni (corporation) and kula (family councils). The matters were decided in accordance with dharma (law), local custom and usages,” he said.
 
 When it comes to jurisdiction, gana, shreni and kula could decide on all disputes except those falling under saahasa. “They had no power of imposing corporal punishments and fines. The appellate jurisdiction of gana over shreni and shreni over kula was recognised. The king was the highest court of appeal and his decision was final. The collegiate character of the king’s court is explicit from Brihaspati’s verse to the effect that king (raja), chief justice (pradvivaka), and judges (sabhyas) are the judicial officers,” he said. However, the villagers had a judicial system of their own.
 
 Ancient India also had institutions which were similar to today’s Law Commission of India. “Nyayaparishad was a congregation of scholars in Vedas, mimamsa, vedangas and expert in law and three persons following ashrama dharmas (brahmachari, grihastha and sanyasa) who have actual life experience in each stage of life. The nyayaparishads were able to assist by providing research-based advice on controversial issues when the law was unclear,” he said. Of course, there were advocates. The equivalents of today’s advocates were called ‘niyogis’ those days.
 
 “We had a rich legal system based on dharma that prevailed even much before and after the Gupta dynasty. Indian society, since inception, was essentially a duty-based society. All aspects of human conduct, from the cradle to the pyre, were governed by rules that were compendiously called ‘dharma’,” said Rajah. 
 
 
