NEW DELHI: Despite   of   in the capital,   has ever been   since 2008. Responding to queries, civic bodies told the Delhi Legislative Assembly’s Questions and Reference Committee that inquiries had been started against four Municipal Corporation of Delhi officials between   and 2012, but the charges did not stick.

 “As per the records of the unified corporation from 2008 to 2012, departmental enquiry proceedings were initiated against four officers (3 UDC and one assistant engineer) of central zone in relation to matters pertaining to encroachment on the public land. However, after proper enquiry nothing substantive was found against them and they were all exonerated,” the municipal corporation’s reply reads.
 
 In 2006, in the Sudhir Madan and others vs MCD case, the Supreme Court of India fixed the responsibility of not allowing re-encroachment on the area’s station house officer. The bench of Justice BP Singh and Justice Altamas Kabir had directed Delhi Police that “whenever hawkers are removed from non-hawking zones, they shall see to it that those areas are not reoccupied by them”, and stated that “every station house officer shall be held personally responsible if such hawkers reoccupy the areas from which they have been evicted”.
 
 The municipal corporations told the assembly committee that they could not move court for contempt proceedings if the SHO did not take steps to prevent reoccupation. This can only be done by the state government’s home department, and there was no other remedy against erring SHO, the response says.
 
 “Everyone is taking advantage of the multiplicity of agencies,” said Sanjay Bhargava, president,  , who has been pushing the courts to fix responsibility for the encroachments. Last week the residents’ welfare associations passed a resolution asking the lieutenant governor to identify and fine officials for encroachments under their watch.
 
 Despite the 14-day anti-encroachment drive during which over 2,500 temporary and permanent structures have been razed, 1,500 vehicles impounded and over 4,000 articles seized, experts feel such campaigns are not the solutions. There is a need, they say, for specific laws and for streamlining policies on parking and street vending.
 
 On Tuesday, the municipal bodies continued the anti-encroachment exercise. In the south, the drive took place on Press Enclave Road, at Malviya Nagar and Panchsheel metro station, on the Savitri Nagar-Malviya Nagar route, Triveni Complex and in Sarai Kale Khan. In east Delhi, encroachments were removed in Shahdara south zone and in Raghubarpura. In the north, areas targeted included Bhagirath Palace, Old Lajpat Rai Market, Meer Dard Road, Mata Sundri Road, Bal Bhawan, Shankar Road, Old Rajinder Nagar and on the routes between Netaji Subhash Place and Madhuban Chowk and Camp Chowk and Vijay Nagar.
 
 
