LUCKNOW: The cash crunch across states was evident in the state capital too as people struggled to withdraw cash from ATMs with most of them running dry on Tuesday.

 Memories of demonetisation were revived as people had to run from one ATM to another, trying to get cash for their urgent needs. Long queues were witnessed at the few ATMs dispensing cash but even they ran dry by evening.
 
 ATMs of both public and private sector banks were affected. Even shutters of some were down. Bank employees were seen putting up ‘No Cash’, ‘Cash not available’ and ‘Shortage of currency’ messages on ATM doors and machines. The screens of most machines displayed ‘Out of service’ and ‘Unable to dispense cash’ messages.
 
 The ATM cash shortage was witnessed across the city, with complaints pouring from Chowk,  , Kaiserbagh, Hazratganj, Lalbagh, Jopling Road, Krishnanagar, Rajajipuram, Aliganj,  , Alambagh, Aashiana, Gomtinagar, Mahanagar, Gol Market, Lekhraj, Bhoothnath and across all sectors of Indiranagar. People going out for errands were seen making enquiries and lodging complaints on bank helpline numbers about lack of cash in ATMs. On failing to get cash in most ATMs, people rushed to banks to withdraw cash but were greeted by rush there.
 
 Kirti Makheeja, a resident of B-Block, Indiranagar, said, “I came all the way to Aminabad for shopping but the shopkeeper did not have the swipe machine. When I went to the nearest ATM, it had no cash. I moved from one ATM to another but none in the market was working. People are telling that the problem is throughout the city. I will have to return empty-handed.”
 
 Vipul Sahu, a resident of Gomtinagar extension, said, “There are four ATMs near my home but none had cash since 7am. I needed cash as I had to go out of station. I went up to   but no ATM on the way was working.”
 
 Yusuf Ahmad, an engineering student said, “ I had come to withdraw cash. There are five ATMs at Chowk crossing but none was working. Four displayed ‘Unable to dispense cash’ and ‘out of service’ while one had a paper with ‘No cash’ written. When I asked an employee of a nationalised bank he said that some people have started hoarding Rs 2,000 notes which is affecting cash supply. I don’t know what the truth is,” said Ahmad.
 
 “There are three ATMs near Hazratganj crossing and all were out of cash. I had come to buy a book. The shopkeeper tried to swipe my card but the server was very slow. I had to call my friend for help,” said Vaishnavi.
 
