NEW DELHI: In sharp contrast to  , which recently figured among the top 10 facilities in the country,   in the   are   out of either   or   on  . 

 On Tuesday, an accused committed suicide inside such a police station at Karawal Nagar that doesn’t even have a proper lockup. Cops here use a regular room in the rented property as the lockup. 
 
 According to the Delhi Police data, while 13 police stations have been running from rented premises, the others are operating out of porta-cabins on private land. Most of these are located in Rohini, southwest, northeast and outer Delhi, while central and south Delhi has one each. 
 
 For all these stations, requests have been sent to the land-owning agencies for centrally located plots. In 2017, cops took possession of three plots from the government and sanctioned construction, while eight buildings were completed. 
 
 In Karawal Nagar, an adjoining plot has been rented to keep impounded vehicles but even that is getting full. The main stretch connecting the road is so damaged that underground sewer lines overflow during the monsoon, forcing cops to take longer routes even during emergencies. 
 
 Officers said all these stations were set up over the past decade as the colonies grew in an unplanned manner in these bordering areas. However, no space was allotted for a police station that requires 20,000 sq metres of land on average to work effectively.
 
 At Kapashera police station in southwest Delhi, a visitors’ room has been set up in the compound and another in the backyard, using tin sheds. Officers said they recently expanded the compound to store impounded vehicles. The police vehicles are parked on the road.
 
 The establishment at Chhawla is operated out of a rented plot that does not have enough space even for cops and seized vehicles are dumped on the road. Despite repeated requests, no action has been taken to allot it a permanent address. 
 
 “We have also been trying to get land from private agencies, but it is difficult to get such plots at government rates,” said a senior police officer. At some places, porta-cabins have been set up on private land, though these are extremely uncomfortable during summer.
 
 Even IP Estate police station, which is at a stone’s throw from the police headquarters, operates out of a porta-cabin under a flyover and doesn’t have any parking facility. At Bindapur, cops are in a slightly better position as they will get a new building in February. 
 
 Cops at Mundka have another problem — due to lack of connectivity in the area, their landline doesn’t work, and they use a mobile phone to take emergency calls. Officers at the station said the landline had got disconnected long ago.
 
 
