CHANDIGARH: Struggling to contain fallout of Delhi chief minister and AAP convenor Arvind Kejriwal’s unconditional apology to former Punjab minister and   leader Bikram Singh Majithia, the Punjab unit of the Aam Aadmi Party will discuss the issue and its ramifications on Friday.

 The AAP MLAs were planning to meet on Friday to discuss performance of the   government on its one-year anniversary and issue a “charge sheet.” Now, they will discuss the fall out of the Kejriwal apology.
 
 AAP co-president Aman Arora said he was “shocked and disappointed” at the apology tendered by Kejriwal. “I still believe drugs would not have taken so many young lives had the previous SAD-BJP government not patronized the drug mafia. Our fight against drugs continues. However, we are not aware of what the thought process of the party leadership in Delhi was on this issue,” he said.
 
 AAP’s state president Bhagwant Mann and former head of its state legal wing Himmat Singh Shergill were not available for comments.
 
 Kanwar Sandhu, AAP MLA from Kharar too criticised the move. “Kejriwal’s apology to Majithia in the defamation case on drugs is a let down to the people, especially the youth of Punjab. We in Punjab have not been taken into the loop. Our fight for Punjab continues.”
 
 He added, “If you stand for truth, facing defamation cases is a way of life. I am still facing defamation filed by Punjab cable mafia, will fight it to the end.”
 
 “We will meet the media at Chandigarh on Friday. We promise to continue our tirade on the burning issue of drugs destroying the youth of Punjab,” said party leader and leader of the opposition  .
 
 Expressing ignorance about the apology, Lok Insaaf Party leader Simarjit Singh Bains said, “I came to know about this from media persons and I was not at all aware.” It was the same   who had once announced from stage that Bikram Majithia was kingpin of drug peddlers and he would throw him in jail, said Bains.
 
 Bains said he could not understand about the reasons behind this decision of Kejriwal and he will take up this matter with AAP leaders. He said Kejriwal had given such statements when Majithia was in power and “now when he is not in power he has apologized, and that too in writing.”
 
 
