UDAIPUR: In an unbelievable incident, a mother connived with her son-in-law and four others to get killed her son over property dispute in Chhoti Sadri of Pratapgarh district. The woman had paid Rs 1 lakh to a contract killer, a highway dhaba owner, where her son frequently visited. 

 Police had found the victim's body on April 7 on NH-113 Nimbaheda road at a deserted location near Rati Talai. Police have arrested his mother Prem Lata Suthar, brother-in-law Kishan Suthar, Mahadev Dhakad and   for the murder.
 
 The victim Mohit (21) was not in a fit mental condition and was a drug addict. He abused his mother since father's death. Tired of her son's torture, the woman had gone to live with her daughter and son-in-law in Bambori village one and a half months ago.
 
 “The woman had some 4 beeghas of land in the area and she wanted to sell it to one of the accused Mahadev. However, Mohit was a hurdle as he didnt allow them to sell the land. His mother and brother-in-law hence conspired to get Mohit killed,” Chhoti Sadri SHO Pravin Tank informed.
 
 They sought Mahadev's assistance who roped in   resident of Bambori who ran a dhaba at Ranikheda village. SIngh was paid Rs 50,000 advance to kill Mohit while the remaining amount was decided to be paid after the murder. 
 
 On April 6, when Mohit went to the dhaba to eat,   laced his food with sleeping pills and even offered him a beer. After eating the food, Mohit left on his bike while Ganpat's worker Anil Nayak too accompanied him. Ganpat followed them. Near Sivana, both the men had another serving of beer and when Mohit lost his senses, Ganpat took the opportunity and strangulated him to death with a cloth. After the cold blooded murder, both the accused returned to the dhaba and resumed their work as if nothing happened.
 
 It was a blind murder and the victim being mentally unfit, it was difficult to ascertain the killer. However, the   footages at one of the toll plaza came as a big help and the culprit Ganpat was quizzed who confessed his crime.
 
 The woman has been sent to judicial custody while the three men have been taken in police remand. Fifth accused Anil Nayak is absconding while the police has launched a search for him.
 
 
