HYDERABAD: With only 62 TMC feet (thousand million cubic feet) of   left in two major reservoirs,   and  , Telangana state is staring at an imminent water crisis in summer. Hyderabad city requires 10 TMC feet water to meet drinking water needs in next four months.

 
 According to irrigation department sources, drinking water crisis looms large over Hyderabad as water levels at Nagarjunasagar reservoir has plunged to 520.5 feet from full reservoir level of 590 feet raising alarm bells over drinking water supply to the city.
 
 According to officials if the water levels fall below the minimum draw down level (MDDL) of 510 feet then water will have to be pumped with high pressure pumps. The exercise will not only put additional burden on the Hyderabad water board but also makes it difficult to meet the daily needs of over 430 MGD (million gallons per day).
 
 Osmansagar, Himayatsagar, Singanoor, Manjira, Akkampally (Krishna phase I, II and III) are the major sources of fresh water for the city and account for 430 million gallons of water per day. The small reservoirs situated around the Hyderabad city were not filled up to full level during the last monsoon leaving the water board to depend heavily on Krishna waters.
 
 The irrigation department has already informed the water board to gear up to meet the situation and ensure that there was no problem in regard to drinking water supply to Hyderabad even if the water level of Nagarjunasagar dam has come down to below 510 feet. . Hyderabad city gets about 270 MGD of Krishna phase I, II and III to meet the drinking water requirements of 80 per cent of the residents. The officials warned the water board about serious water shortage and water level hitting 500 feet mark, in case of any delay in the monsoon.
 
 “The available water of 62 TMC feet in Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar reservoirs need to be used till fresh inflows reaches comes during the monsoon. It will only happen in the month of July and we have to manage with the meagre reserves till then, “ said a senior official in the irrigation department.
 
