NEW DELHI: Scores of people whose   were seized and suspended for three months for traffic violations like jumping lights, speeding, using mobile phones while driving or drunken driving, in line with the directions of a Supreme Court-appointed committee, have been left high and dry in the national capital.

 The problems of many of these licence-holders are compounded when they approach the regional transport offices (RTOs) after the three-month period, only to find that their seized licences remain traceless. As a result, a huge number of people are driving without valid papers. In Delhi alone, 4-5 lakh drivers are on the roads without valid documents, according to estimates by the traffic police. About 35,500 licences were seized in 2017 by  .
 
 Dev Bhatia of Malviya Nagar encountered a bigger problem when he applied for a new licence after his confiscated one could not be traced. Bhatia said his fresh application was blacklisted as the authorities found that he already had a valid licence issued to him. According to the Motor Vehicles Act, any attempt to obtain more than one licence is a punishable offence. TOI talked to a few other people who could not get their licences from designated RTOs three months after they were challaned by the traffic police.
 
 Government officials also admitted that they have been approached by people to help trace the seized licences. It could be worse for people whose licences were issued by RTOs in their home states and they have been challaned by the traffic police in another state. 
 
 When this newspaper took up the issue with SC panel chairman Justice K S Radhakrishnan, he said, “We will look into the matter.” 
 
 The SC had issued the direction in 2015. The committee has not yet received any complaint. A source in the panel said the authorities concerned are duty-bound to ensure that the licences are kept in safe custody and are returned to people after they have paid the price for violating traffic law. However, in some states like Telangana, police don’t take away the licence but only write to the RTO concerned to suspend the licence for three months. 
 
 “There is a need to have a standardised norm for such practices across the country rather than each state following its own norms,” T Krishna Prasad, DGP (road safety) of Telangana said.
 
 
