KOCHI: The much-awaited widening of the Thammanam-Pulleppady roadhashit a roadblock with many, who handed over land free-of-cost for the purpose 15 years ago, demanding that the acquired land should be given back or they should be compensated. Some of them even got stay orders from court asking the corporation to stop the drainage work along the road, which has impacted land acquisition and widening.

 
 According to landowners, they surrendered the land in 2003 but the local body failed to complete the work.  , development standing committee chairperson, Kochi corporation, said legal heirs of a property owner who had handed over land for the purpose is now seeking compensation. “The land handed over free-of-cost by their father has now become government land as per revenue records. It is near Udaya road,” Joseph said.
 
 In another case, the wife and husband were joint owners of the land. Husband had signed the agreement handing over the land to the corporation. “Now, the wife has come up with the demand that they should be given compensation. There are two more such cases,” she said.
 
 The corporation has now decided to convene a meeting of landowners in the mayor’s chamber soon. “We will also be talking with legal experts and advocates appearing for the land owners,” Joseph said.
 
 It was in 1996 that land acquisition procedures for widening   started. The plan was to increase the width of the 3.46 km road from Padma junction to   via   and Thammanam to 22m. The average width of the road now is around 8m. A total of 6.97 hectares spread across  , Elamkulam, Poonithura and Edappally South villages had to be acquiredfor the project.Outof the total 3.46 km, less than 720 metre, mostly in Pulleppady-Karanakkodam stretch, could bewidenedin the past15 years. “Of this, 3.61 hectares, including free surrender of 1.52 hectares, has been acquired. The acquisition procedures are at different stages in all areas except Pulleppady-Padma stretch,” an official associated with the project said.
 
 The government has given Rs 25 crore for paying the remaining compensation in the Pulleppady-Karanakkodam. “The land acquisition wing of revenue department is going ahead with acquisition process but the pace is slow,” said K D Ajayaghosh, superintending engineer, Kochi corporation. “Of the Rs 25 crore earmarked for giving compensation for the landowners, Rs 15 crore has already been disbursed. So, the widening work and construction of 360 m drainage from Kathrikkadavu can be completed without much delay,” said Gracy Joseph.
 
 “The work is being done using Rs one crore from plan fund share for my division,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Hibi Eden MLA has asked the state government to end toll collection on Thammanam-Pulleppady railway overbridge.
 
