JAIPUR: Animal rights groups have appealed to the civil society to report the use of glass-coated ‘manjha’ or Chinese strings to their  . The groups will help the police in identifying shops selling the banned ‘manjha’. They will provide information to the police from different parts of the city.

 Sahil   of the People for Animals says that the idea was mooted during an interaction with the police recently. “We informed the police that some of our helpline numbers were very popular and receives rescue calls from across the city. It was then decided to request citizens to report the use and sales of the deadly ‘manjha’. This will help in reducing casualties,” said Singhal.
 
 Activists have also decided to accompany the police during raids so that as to interact and increase awareness of buyers. “Buyers are the prime accused. If we make buyers aware of how illegal strings are causing harm to winged creatures, our job will become easier,” said Dr Pramod Kumar Yadav, a veterinarian working with the state government and a volunteer at Sewa Samarpan.
 
 
 
  
 
 Dr Vikas Sharma of the Environment and Wildlife Care Society (EWCS) has also appealed to citizens to keep shoeboxes handy this weekend to keep injured birds till a volunteer comes to rescue them. “The high number of casualties is because citizens think that calling a helpline and sharing the location are enough. They don’t monitor injured birds which are attacked by cats or dogs. So, we appeal to citizens to put injured birds in shoeboxes until a volunteer comes for them,” said Sharma, who is a veterinary doctor and a volunteer.
 
 To treat birds that may get injured during  , the animal husbandry department has decided not to accept leave applications of officials and government veterinary doctors in the city. “We have issued directions to all government veterinary hospitals to remain open from 9am to 6pm,” said Dr J R Bairwa, joint director (veterinary), animal husbandry department. He said that no application for leave would be accepted. Besides, the department will also constitute mobile teams, comprising veterinary doctors, to provide immediate relief to injured birds. They have also given helpline numbers to inform veterinary doctors.
 
 
