SURAT: A local court on Saturday sent two fair price shop owners, arrested for allegedly pilfering subsidized food grains by hacking into government software and using the biometric data of beneficiaries registered under the National Food Security Act ( ), to five day police remand. Officials at the Surat detection of crime branch (DCB), which is investigating the case, said that the accused used duplicate software to hack into government system and steal fingerprints to create fake records of purchase of food grains under the name of beneficiaries, who in reality did not avail the facility. Police believe that there is a bigger racket behind the use of such software to siphon off food grains meant for public distribution scheme.

 Babulal Chhogaji Boriwal (53) and   (61), both running fair price shops in Udhna areas of Surat were booked under various sections of the IPC including section 406, 409 (criminal breach of trust), 467, 468, 471 (forgery), as well as sections of the Information Technology Act and the Essential Commodities Act. 
 
 The action was taken after eight complaints were registered in different police stations of city by officials of the Surat collectorate following complaints of irregularities. “The accused were using some software containing the ration card number, Aadhar card number and biometric thumb impression of beneficiaries. We are now investigating from where the accused purchased the software who developed it and who supplied the data,” said  , assistant commissioner of police, detection of crime branch, Surat.
 
 The fair price owners were using a software that was available at price of Rs 15,000, say police officials. The software provided bulk data of beneficiaries along with their thumb impressions.
 
 "They used this data bank to create an electronic record every month to show that beneficiaries had obtained subsidised foodgrains when in reality they had not," said Sarvaiya.
 
 Surat police commissioner   said, “Some agencies were given contract by state government to collect biometric data to link with ration card. It is possible that data was saved by the persons from those agencies and later sold it through the software to the shop owners.” He added: “The data was not stolen from Aadhar card and was not linked with the UIDAI database.”
 
 
