Kolkata: Leaf through the passport of even a not-so-well-known classical musician, and chances are you will find it find it well-stamped. These trips keep their kitchen fires burning. Someone who would have earned Rs 5,000 per show in Kolkata easily gets up to $300 per concert abroad.

 Going by the stamps, you will be tempted to conclude that the demand for Indian classical   abroad and the audience base have increased over the years. But veterans think otherwise; they insist that while the number of Indian classical musicians playing abroad has dramatically gone up, the expansion of the listener base beyond the Indian diaspora may not have happened at a desirable rate.
 
 END OF LENGTHY GROUP TOURS
 
 The first international tour that Pt Vijay Kichlu had organised was in 1981. Pt Hariprasad Chaurasia, Pt Shiv Kumar Sharma, Pt V G Jog, Vidushi Girija Devi and Pt A T Kanan and Malabika Kanan had all gone to America then. “Zakir (Ustad Zakir Hussain) was living there then. From 1981 to 2005, I used to organise a tour every year. Each year, I’d take a group for a tour of 12/15 cities in America. As young scholars, I have also taken Ajay (Pt Ajoy Chakraborty) and Rashid (Ustad Rashid Khan) in his teens,” he recounts.
 
 Today, those long tours have vanished. Those like Kichlu, who would sometimes even step back as performers to make way for youngsters, are also missing. “Earlier, I used to spend two months on tours abroad. Today, it’s gone down to five weeks. That’s because there are few quality concerts that offer good money and great ambience,” says Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar.
 
 SO, WHERE DO THESE MUSICIANS PERFORM?
 
 Performing in exotic locations is not new for Pt Tanmoy Bose. With Pt Ravi Shankar, he has performed in the middle of a desert in Morocco and has accompanied Ustad Amjad Ali Khan at the Jerusalem International Oud Festival. According to Bose, the number of artistes going abroad has increased but the stature of the venues are not primarily those of mainstream concerts. “The circulation of artistes has increased. But they are mostly performing in ‘sidekick concerts’ that are organised by members of the Indian community or students of musicians,” Bose points out. “One person from a particular country, who comes to India to learn, goes back and organises a concert in his country. In this show, there might be a couple of foreign listeners. So, the number of house concerts organised by the Indian diaspora has increased. This generates opportunities for young musicians.” Sometimes those who invite performers for concerts also turn into organisers.
 
 BEYOND THE INDIAN DIASPORA
 
 Slide guitar player Pt Debashish Bhattacharya, who invented the chaturangi, had a tough task at hand when he decided not to bank on the immigrant population for his concerts. Instead, he tried to capture the attention of the foreign audience. In 1993, Bhattacharya was invited to be a part of a ‘World of Slide Guitar’ tour in the US. “I was the only Asian in the group and played 40 shows in 40 days across the US and Canada. I played for Native American Indians in Phoenix. They had never heard of our music. After this, I connected with a mainstream agent in the West. That helped me get shows in the remotest parts of the world,” Bhattacharya says.
 
 In 2002, Bhattacharya played at a sanctuary for penguins and their human friends in Alaska. He played in countries like Lithuania and six American states where Indian classical shows had never before been heard. “When I performed for French, Belgian and Flemish kids in 20 schools in Europe, they thought I was from a different planet. Later, some of those kids came to train under me and also represented me in Europe as professionals,” Bhattacharya says. 
 
 DO AGENTS HELP?
 
 Bose points out that in order to crack the bigger festivals abroad, the musicians need to go through agents. “Though bigger artistes have agents, young Indian artistes still don’t,” he says. However, Bhattacharya said agents can never guarantee exposure or a mainstream concert. “An agent is a medium of money-making between a presenter and an artiste. He has to sell the artiste. An artiste must have the uniqueness so that he can sell to a presenter,” Bhattacharya adds.
 
 EXPOSURE WITH WESTERN LEGENDS
 
 For Pt Subhankar Banerjee, travelling to New York these days for concerts is as common as going from Kolkata to, say, Naihati. Just a hand bag, a tabla bag and he is off with the likes of Pt Hariprasad Chaurasia, Pt Shiv Kumar Sharma, Ustad Amjad Ali Khan and Ustad Rashid Khan to play at countries like Mexico, Brazil and the Republic of Botswana. Recently, he even performed with Chaurasia at Perm Krai, a federal subject of Russia that came into existence in 2005. “It is in the same time zone as India but takes 1.5 days to reach from here,” he says. However, he rues that despite the talent, artistes from his generation are not always able to crack the international market. “Pt Ravi Shankar and Ustad Zakir Hussain had gone to the West and explored newer avenues with the best of musicians there. George Harrison’s tryst with Panditji is legendary. We also have other God-gifted and intelligent musicians who have tried to explore the same things. But they have perhaps not got the exposure that is required for them to spread base,” Banerjee reasons.
 
 Interesting work, he insists, is happening among the current generation too. From Anoushka Shankar (who worked with Sting, M.I.A and Herbie Hancock) to Amaan-Ayaan (who collaborated with Elmira Darvarova), and from Kala Ramnath (who collaborated with the London Philharmonic Orchestra) to Rahul Sharma (who collaborated with KennyG and Richard Clayderman), projects are happening. “But sponsors, both in India and abroad, still don’t go beyond a coterie of big-ticket artistes,” Banerjee says.
 
 MONEY MATTERS
 
 There is an interesting divide in the percentage of artists’ earnings in India and abroad. This divide stems from the stature of the musicians. While a large chunk of the earnings for younger and relatively unknown musicians comes from abroad, the scenario is different from seniors. “Some countries were not as impacted with inflation as we were. So, the fees have gone up in India but not in those countries. This includes America, Germany and France. An artiste who used to get $1000 (approximately Rs 63,715) per concert in the West 10 years back will now get $5000 (approximately Rs 3,18,575) for the same show. But in India, the remuneration of the same artiste might have shot up to Rs 5,00,00 because of demand. So, he might not even want to go abroad. For those artistes, the chunk of the earnings now come from Indian programmes,” Banerjee says.
 
 WHERE ARE THE STARS?
 
 Senior musicians like Pt Budhaditya Mukherjee, Pt Ajoy Chakraborty, Ustad Rashid Khan, Ustad Shahid Parvez, Ustad Shujaat Khan, Pt Tejendra Narayan Majumdar, Pt Ulhas Kashalkar and Pt Kushal Das have been creating waves abroad for years now. But critically acclaimed vocalist Pt Venkatesh Kumar hasn’t yet gone abroad. From the younger lot, there is Anoushka Shankar, Amaan Ali Khan, Ayaan Ali Khan, Niladri Kumar, Purbayan Chatterjee, Rakesh Chaurasia, Kaushiki Chakraborty, Kala Ramnath, Rahul Sharma and S Shashank. 
 
 In cricket, Virat Kohli has taken on the baton from Sachin Tendulkar; and Ranbir Kapoor is the biggest star in tinseltown after SRK. But where’s the next big thing in Indian classical music who is as good as his legendary predecessors were in their youths?
 
 “There are no stars in the forefront,” admits Amaan Ali Khan. “I am no match when it comes to my father when he was at my age. There is money in the market and everyone is busy. But when you talk about a name, there isn’t really anyone of that stature,” the young sarod player says. Purbayan Chatterjee agrees. “But it’s also true that we live in different times. Posterity will judge where we stand,” Purbayan says. The decline in the standard of the audience is also to be blamed. “Today, we have passive listeners who are slow in acknowledging the stardom of young musicians,” says Pt Debashish Bhattacharya. “But that isn’t surprising, since we live in times when Ustad Bade Ghulam Ali’s video has 40k viewers, while a video of anyone else who pays the video-sharing site gets over a million hits.”
 
 DOORDARSHAN, AIR TURN OTHER EYE
 
 Another big factor is the change in Doordarshan and All India Radio’s contribution towards promoting Indian classical music. “When there was one television channel, the nation ate with the artistes and slept with them, irrespective of whether or not they liked it. These legends then went down in history. Today, there are so many channels but none of them even plays Indian classical music,” Aman says. People would wait to hear the name of the artiste performing at the national programme of All India Radio each month, Kichlu reminds us.
 
 GURUS OR PERFORMERS?
 
 The shift in priorities of gurus has also contributed to this change. “The younger lot had skills in place. But there might be a deficiency in the understanding of the raag and how to handle it. Earlier, gurus had the quality and capability of transferring that knowledge to their disciples. Today, that has changed,” Kichlu says.
 
 Those days, gurus rarely performed. “Baba Allauddin Khan lived in Maihar, was content with his daal-roti and saw music as a form of sadhana. Today, there are gurus who have three concerts lined up in a day. Where do they have the time to train their disciples?” Kichlu wonders.
 
 If the gurus had the time, it would help the disciples. If the disciples then matured into great musicians, it takes no rocket science to understand that their market would automatically increase globally.
 
 
