INDORE:   maintained by   has prompted the government   to raise the issue so that the   may be strengthened.

 The lawyers have stressed on the need of making the case diary more comprehensive, with annexing reports and evidence to corroborate the prosecution theory. The case diary is a record of day to day activities carried out by the police during the investigation of any case.
 
 Being a subject on the concurrent list, policies regarding maintenance of the case diary are being made by the state government. A study into the problems faced by prosecution due to inadequacies in case diary, was done by an advocate from Indore Pankaj Wadhwani, who sent his suggestions to the government through a letter.
 
 “We hold review meetings every fifteen days to monitor the work being done by the police officers and correct them if anything goes wrong. We are open to any valuable suggestions for us, which can improve the process of investigation,” DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra said. 
 
 Advocates arguing for bail applications and criminal appeals feel that the one of the major problems in the case diary records is lack of necessary evidence and reports such as medical report, FSL report, photographs of the crime scene and statements of eyewitnesses which need to be taken on the spot etc.
 
 “In many cases there is an abnormal delay in taking statements of the accused, which is unaccounted for. This gives the defence a loophole and weakens the prosecution case,” advocate Wadhwani said.
 
 It has been suggested that a separate section must be made in the case diary where the police officers must record the reasons for the delay in recording statements of the witnesses or collecting other necessary evidence such as   footage recordings etc.
 
 “There is a need for more awareness among the investigating officers to categorically collect best evidence and place it on record with its details. Scientific reports should be a part of the case diaries,” advocate Vibhor Khandelwal another government advocate said.
 
 The letter has also sought for liability to be fixed on the investigating officer if the case diary is not maintained properly, and action be taken against him.
 
 
