GURUGRAM: The demolition drive in areas around the   has been put on hold for over two weeks now, apparently owing to some confusion arising out of reports that deputy commissioner   had ordered a stay on the anti-encroachment campaign.

 Though there has not been any written intimation from the DC’s office in this regard, sources within   claimed Singh had reportedly asked for a temporary halt in demolition of structures within the 900 metres of the ammunition depot, till the next hearing on a related matter in court. However, what isn’t clear is if the stay order is applicable only for old buildings or it covers newly constructed structures too.
 
 MCG officials have, thus, written to Singh, seeking clarity on the matter. “Though we haven’t received any written intimation, some media reports and information coming through informal channels suggest the DC has asked to put the demolition drive on hold till the next court hearing. We have written to him, seeking clarity on the matter,” said a senior MCG official. He added the corporation was demolishing only new constructions in the restricted zone. 
 
 But, when contacted, the deputy commissioner said no such stay order was issued from his office. 
 
 Sources claimed MCG had not done any demolition in the area since May 10, when district town planner (DTP)   sustained injuries during an anti-encroachment drive. A mob of local people had pelted stones on an MCG team, led by Singh, to prevent demolitions. While trying to escape, Singh had fallen and broken his right hand. Two team members had suffered minor injuries, while four vehicles were damaged.
 
 Further, the sources claimed there had been pressure from different quarters to halt the demolition drives in the restricted zone. “There is pressure from all ends to not demolish the properties in the area,” said an official in the know of the matter. The enforcement team is also wary after the attacks on officials during recent demolition drives.
 
 Meanwhile, the district administration has extended the deadline for filing claims and objections to the survey report prepared by MCG on encroachments within the 300-metre radius of the ammunition depot. Objections and claims can now be filed till June 22.
 
 
