Visakhapatnam: “Vizag is a clean city with some pretty beaches. I stay in Chennai for my work, which is also a clean place. But I must say that   is cleaner, especially its beaches and roads.” Such compliments for the port city are not one-off — visitors from other states and countries have more or less said the same things about Vizag many times before — but when such praise comes from a Japanese delegate, it assumes significance. After all, Japan is known to be one of the cleanest countries in the world.

 Not just the city, the local cuisine too has become a favourite of Noritada Hayashi. “It’s much like what we eat in Japan. Here too, people eat rice and fish. I have not faced any problems with the food here though it’s a bit spicy,” he says. Hayashi is from Tokyo, and currently works in Chennai as director of Jetro, an external trade organisation of the Japan government.
 
 The cleanliness of the city has also not escaped the eyes of George O’Neal from California. “During my drive to the hotel from the airport, I found Vizag to be a clean and green city. There’s no much natural beauty around, there are hills, forests and seas. Driving on the roads back home in California is a nice experience, and it’s a similar feel when you drive on Vizag roads. Moreover, I am really loving Indian and Andhra food,” says George, co-founder of Karman Inc, who is on his first visit to the City of Destiny.
 
 Another delegate, Steel Lee from South Korea, who is the director of Daeha Co, was also struck by the city’s cleanliness. “It’s a good place for business. After the conference, we hope to do some sightseeing around the city and will go to the beaches. We are also interested in setting up our manufacturing unit in Andhra Pradesh,” said Lee.
 
 The Spanish delegation went for a walk on the beaches soon after their arrival and found them “very nice”.
 
 Thanks to the local administration for rigorously following Swachhta, for hundreds of foreign delegates present at the three-day CII  , it’s been a pleasant experience being in a clean and green Indian city.
 
 
