CHENNAI: When the draw for the 2018   was announced, there was some optimism surrounding the presence of 13 Indians among 32 challengers in the main draw. At the end of the second round here on Wednesday, however, Bhambri remains the only Indian in the fray. His place in the quarterfinals was never in doubt either as he dispatched fellow Delhiite Sidharth Rawat 6-2, 6-3 to set up a clash with Japan’s Yasutaka Uchiyama.

 
 From the moment the two players stepped onto court, it was distinctly clear that there could only be one winner. The second seed was head and shoulders above Rawat, who just did not have the wherewithal to cope with Bhambri’s booming groundstrokes and potent first serves. It must have been an all too familiar feeling for Rawat, who had won a paltry six games in their previous two meetings.
 
 Going into the tie, Bhambri would have been well aware that there are sterner tests to come over the remainder of the tournament. He wasted no time in getting down to business though, breaking Rawat’s serve in just the third game to take a 2-1 lead. Once in the ascendancy, the 25-year-old did not let Rawat get back into the contest as reflected by the latter’s failure to earn even a single break point on Yuki’s serve.
 
 The second set, too, followed convention. In the first game itself, Bhambri broke serve to love. Given the cushion of a comfortable lead, it was noticeable how Yuki tried to approach the net every once in a while and dictate the play. He was rarely indecisive and eventually ended Rawat’s misery in precisely 58 minutes.
 
 “Bhambri was very aggressive. He has a lot of experience. I played him last year too. It was pretty much the same scoreline. To counter someone like him, you need a big serve to earn free points. Otherwise, it becomes very difficult,” a despondent Rawat said after the match. 
 
 In other matches, Egypt’s Mohamed Safwat brushed aside Arjun Kadhe 6-4, 6-2. While the Pune-based Kadhe had done well to come through the qualifiers and got the better of   in the opening round, this was a bridge too far.
 
 Top seed  , who looked patchy in his first-round win, put up a much improved display against Thailand’s Wishaya Trongcharoenchaikul, taking a little more than an hour to wrap up a 6-3, 6-2 win.
 
