AGARTALA: By taking the oath-taking ceremony out into an open space, the new government gave people a chance they never had before - to witness a new dispensation take charge. For the thousands thronging the  , where chief minister   Deb was sworn in with eight other ministers, it was an event of a lifetime. 

 "This is the first time I will be watching the oath-taking live, on the ground. No one from my village has ever been a part of an event like this," Biplab Sarkar, a student of Sonamura College who votes in Manik Sarkar's Dhanpur constituency, said.
 
 His friend, Pradip, carrying a map of India with the BJP-ruled states coloured in saffron, was even more excited. "It feels like Tripura attained freedom today," he said. They were happy for one more reason. "It's the first time that we have a Bengali BJP CM in the country. I, as a Bengali, am really proud of this moment," Pradip added.
 
 In the past, such events would be restricted to the boundaries of the Raj Bhavan. The older generation remembers reading about the public swearing-in of chief minister Prafulla Kumar Mahanta in Assam, way back in 1985, at a stadium. Given the opportunity to see their leaders in action, people came from far-flung areas - South Tripura, Dhalai and North Tripura - on Thursday night, while many travelled by night to reach here by day-break. It was a long journey. Upon reaching the venue, they were frisked, their bags were checked and it took some time to finish the security check before they could enter. But no one complained.
 
 All roads to the venue on the outskirts of the main city were lined with drinking water facilities, manned by BJP workers. They cheered for every VIP who stepped on the dais. The applause was just as loud for Prime Minister   as it was for Manik Sarkar. When Modi shook hands with Sarkar, the applause was louder.
 
 The people left, long after Modi and every VIP had left the venue, with dreams of the better days that Modi had just promised. "All we want is that the unemployed get jobs. We want that our health sector is improved and we don't have to go outside the state for every little ailment. We also want that the government employees get their salaries as per the 7th Pay Commission recommendations,"  , a university student, said.
 
 Apart from going all out to woo the tribals in the crucial 20 tribal seats that proved to be the game-changer, BJP's main poll plank to woo the strong government workforce was revising their pay packet as per 7th Pay Commission recommendations, which they had been deprived of by the former government. The employees were considered as the mainstay of the Left.
 
 BJP's general in the state Sunil Deodhar said the BJP has to fulfil every promise it has made. "The people placed their trust in us and in what we promised. It is our responsibility to keep our word. Even after government formation, I will be staying back in Tripura and personally looking into the implementation of every promise that was made."
 
 
