JAIPUR: Over 400 students divided in 48 teams along with 100 subject experts’ brain storming to find a solution to the problems related to the ministry of information and broadcasting (I&B) at second edition of Heckathon in Jaipur inaugurated on Friday. The event is being held at 28 centres, including Jaipur.

 AP Mittal, member secretary of  , says that the second edition of Heckathon is being held to find solutions to the problems of 27 ministries and 10 state governments. “Every Centre has awarded the task of solving a problem. Jaipur was assigned the task of finding solutions of all problems related to the ministry of broadcasting and information,” said Mittal.
 
 Inaugurated by the human resource minister   through video conferencing, the focus of the event is largely to find out the solutions for government set ups. “The initiative has challenged the students to think out-of-the-box and offer innovative ideas to build smart applications which will help address major real life problems in our country,” said Mittal.
 
 In Jaipur, teams are competing with each other to find a solution for 16 real problems of the ministry of information and broadcasting. The winners will be rewarded with the cash prize of Rs1 lakh, Rs 75,000 second position respectively. Students will be awarded with the certificates. The main highlight of the event is students will get the opportunity to work with the different ministries of India and the state governments.
 
 Students from around 20 engineering colleges from   are participating in the competition. RP Yadav, former vice chancellor of   says that the concept is very vibrant and will give confidence to students. “Such events will create an healthy ecosystem required for the growth for technical education,” said Yadav. The event will conclude on Satuday at 8pm.
 
 Across all centers the HRD has directed almost 1500 senior professionals of Computer Science for the mentorship of the teams, and the senior officials of prominent IT companies like TCS, Deloitte, Persistent, Infosys etc. have been appointed in the Judgment Panel of the event. This event will witness the total prizes worth over 50 lacks.
 
 
