LUDHIANA: With Ludhiana Municipal Corporation elections just two weeks away, trouble seems to be brewing for   party and its   from Ludhiana East, Sanjay Talwar. Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) supremo and MLA from Atam Nagar, Simarjit Singh  , has filed a complaint against Talwar, with the state  , claiming violation of code of conduct of elections by Talwar, by openly admitting the use of money to win the upcoming Municipal Corporation elections. The development comes in the wake of announcement made by Talwar on February 1 that he would award Rs 11 lakh to the Congress candidate of his constitutency, who secures a win with the highest vote margin in MC elections.

 Giving more information about his complaint, Bains said: “I had already filed a written complaint with the state election commissioner Jagpal Sandhu, and requested him to take the strictest of action against the MLA, as not only had he violated the code of conduct, but also admitted to the use of money during elections. With such type of allurements, it is certain Congress candidates and workers would indulge in every kind of cheap tactics and illegal means to win MC elections, be it violence or booth capturing. This kind of act by an elected representative has really set a very bad example, and sent out a very wrong message to the public. Our party will not hesitate to knock at the door of the high court if the election commission failed to take action against him, as there was enough evidence against him in the public domain.”
 
 Meanwhile, defending himself, MLA Sanjay Talwar said: “My detractors are blowing this issue out of proportion. It is only a very small effort from my side to encourage our workers and candidates to work hard to sweep these elections with better margins. The result of my announcement is already yielding results, as the morale of our workers is at an all-time high, and some of our prospective candidates too have announced that they would give ₹1 lakh to every booth in their ward if they win the ₹11 lakh prize money. There is no question of violation of any code of conduct, as we are going to contribute this money from personal sources, not from the government or party source at all, and this announcement was made by me on Facebook before February 1.”
 
 Meanwhile, the ₹11 lakh prize act by Sanjay Talwar has given a chance to his arch rival and district president of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD)   to take a dig at him. Launching a scathing attack on the  , Dhillon said: “It is a very shameful and cheap act, which has totally exposed the MLA as well as the Congress party, that they could go to any extent to win the elections. Moreover, as their own worker has claimed in a Facebook video that the Congress party had sold tickets by charging lakhs of rupees from ticket aspirants, so it was not a big surprise to me if they gave away ₹11 lakh to one candidate. I dont think the election commission should wait for any kind of formal complaint in this matter, and in fact, they should take suo moto notice of this matter, and MLA Talwar should be disqualified from the   membership immediately.”
 
 
 
 “This kind of act is very dangerous for democracy. The Congress MLA is taking MC elections as if it is a game of gambling (sattebazi). Now, Congress workers will openly indulge in acts like violence and even stopping workers and voters of other parties to vote against the Congress. Strict action should be taken against MLA Sanjay Talwar so that an example is set that no elected representative again indulges in politics of allurement.” — MLA Simarjit Singh Bains, Lok Insaaf Party
 
 “This act has exposed the Congress party and its leaders that they would go to any heights to win the elections. Moreover, MLA Sanjay Talwar — by making such a statement — has admitted that he and his party do not stand a chance of winning MC elections without using any unfair means.” — Ranjit Dhillon, former MLA and district president, SAD 
 
 
