NEW DELHI: On the final day of the 48-hour   against   drives, several   from different states joined the protest march from Red Fort to Town Hall. The march was followed by a dharna where the protesters demanded justice for the city traders. 

  said on Saturday that the markets would open on Sunday as the association had decided to wait for government’s action. 
 
 However, Chambers of Trade and Industry president Brijesh Goyal, who took out a march along with other traders from Sadar Bazar to Town Hall, said CTI would observe the bandh on Sunday as well. “Major markets like Sadar Bazar, Lala Lajpat and Karol Bagh, will observe complete bandh on Sunday. The authorities should immediately de-seal the shops and special areas should be given relief,” he added.
 
 Khandelwal said, “The bandh call was spontaneous and successful and amply reflected the amount of anguish and resentment of the traders over arbitrary sealing drives being conducted in a most dictatorial manner keeping aside MCD Act,1957,” he said.
 
 Lauding the DDA proposals for amending the master plan to provide relief to traders, Khandelwal said, “CAIT has submitted a 12-point agenda to the Union urban development minister urging him to take necessary steps to resolve the traders’ problems at the earliest.” The agenda includes maintaining status quo in special areas till the time redevelopment plans of these areas are prepared and implemented, collecting the conversion charge for local shopping complex at the rates declared in 1998, and increasing the plot size in these complexes from 175m to 250m. 
 
 “While regularising and enhancing FAR, the condition of parking availability should be withdrawn. GK, Green Park and South Extension developed by DLF should be enlisted on the list of Rehabilitation Colonies developed by DLF, and commercial use of basement should be allowed uniformly in any street. The limit of paying conversion charges should also be fixed for 10 years,” he added. 
 
 While most of the markets were shut on Saturday, high-end markets like CP and Khan Market remained open. 
 
 
