Mumbai: The   has come out with a new design and chocolate-brown coloured  . The bill will have the same height of 63mm but the width will be 123mm — slightly lesser than the existing width of 137mm.

 Besides the colour and the size, another difference is that the reverse of the bill will carry a motif of the  . The existing Rs 10-note carries the image of Indian fauna — rhinoceros, elephant and tiger.
 
 The central bank said that it would be putting out the new note into circulation bearing the signature of RBI governor   soon. The bill has other designs and geometric patterns aligning with the overall colour scheme, both at the obverse and reverse. Existing banknotes in the denomination of Rs 10 will continue to be legal tender.
 
 Other features of the new bill include a see-through register with denominational numeral 10, written also in Devanagari script, and a portrait of Mahatma Gandhi at the centre. The new note will continue to have windowed de-metalised security thread with inscriptions Bharat (in Devanagri).
 
 Like the other new-series notes, the Rs 10-bill will have the year of its printing on the left, the ‘Swachh Bharat’ logo with its slogan, and a language panel. These notes are expected to be put into circulation by the RBI and lenders through their branches. Meanwhile, the RBI has asked banks to hasten the recalibration of their   so that the newly introduced Rs 200-notes can be put into circulation. According to Navroze Dastur, MD, NCR, an ATM company, it would take around four months to re-calibrate all ATMs in the country.   has recalibrated 5,000 ATMs for seven banks so far.
 
 Industry sources say that the cost of recalibration per ATM is around Rs 3,000-Rs 5,000 with average completion time of 30-60 minutes. Since  , the RBI has come out with new designs for five denominations. While the new Rs 2,000- and Rs 500-notes were introduced immediately after demonetistaion, the RBI had recently introduced the new Rs 200- and Rs 50-notes. While only new designs are in circulation in denominations of Rs 200 and above, the older notes would continue to exist in the case of Rs 10 and Rs 50 notes.
 
 
