Nagpur: The BJP-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation, which is developing RSS headquarters at Reshimbagh with taxpayers’ money, has failed to deposit its employees’ provident fund ( ) contributions since April 2017. 
 
 “The PF dues have mounted to Rs 41.25 crore,” confirmed an official from the civic body’s accounts and finance department. 
  
 According to a general administration department official, apart from daily wagers numbering 4,000, the civic body has around 8,300 permanent staffers. 
  
 The civic administration has been paying PF contribution of daily wagers. Though the NMC is deducting PF contribution from the salaries of its staff, which comes to around Rs3.75 crore per month, the same is not being deposited with the provident fund office. 
  
 Sources claimed that already finding it difficult to meet expenses, the accounts department has diverted the PF contribution amount to other works. Sources said this may invite action against the NMC under PF Act. 
  
 Officials from the government provident fund office assured to look into the matter. Mayor Nanda Jichkar was not available for comments. 
  
 NMC employees union leader Jammu Anand termed this act of the civic body as a breach of trust of its employees. Criminal action should be initiated against administration, he said, adding that the administration should deposit the amount which it had deducted from its employees’ monthly salary with interest. 
  
 Meanwhile, despite NMC’s precarious financial health, the standing committee led by its outgoing chairman Sandip Jadhav on Wednesday gave nod to seven different development works worth Rs 59.73 crore. 
  
 The proposals included Rs40.50 lakh for daily maintenance, deployment of security guards at Suresh Bhat auditorium for three months. The panel also gave nod to concretization of eight tar roads under Phase-III at a cost of Rs 54.96 crore. 
  
 Jadhav also cleared additional payment of Rs5.53 lakh to a private firm engaged in network connectivity of e-governance system. 
  
 The panel also gave its green signal to slum department’s proposal for maintenance of pay and use toilet at Jaripatka hawkers’ zone. 
  
  
