 is a police superintendent in the Indian state of Telangana. Female officers make up 7% of police officers and 2% of leadership positions in the country, which makes Rajeshwari a big voice in a small crowd,” hailed an article published recently in the official website of   ( ). The recognition is an acknowledgement of a distinguished decade-long career in which the topper of IPS class of 2009 has busted gender stereotypes to carve a niche for herself in the male dominated world of law enforcement. However, she doesn’t think of herself as a ‘feminist’ in uniform. “I don’t really understand the term feminism. When you join the service, you join as an officer — not a male or a female officer. It’s your calibre that can make you a good one. Yes, I am a female police officer, but it is the uniform that gives me a strong sense of identity and purpose and it is enormously empowering,” says, Rema,   SP, as she settles down for an interview with Hyderabad Times.

 
 
 Yes. In fact, when I was growing up, I used to wonder why was I born as a girl? And why not as a boy. Because the boys got to go out and play and have a social life, which I did not. I belong to Munnar, Kerala, where everyone is educated, yet the general perception is that girls are best suited to become a teacher or a doctor or engineer. To aspire to become an   was unimaginable. My entry into the force itself was a little personal battle with my family. I did not inform them about my ambition to join civil services until I actually got through the exam. 
 When I joined the Police force 10 years ago, there wasn’t a national discussion happening around women in general or women in the security forces. But today, the scenario has changed a lot. when I look back, I realise it’s the most wonderful thing that happened to me. I can cherish my achievements more.
 
 
 My inspiration comes from the people I come across — my team, victims who seek our help, the people we serve and the community at large. For instance, the motivation to launch the Rehabilitation of Joginis programme came from a lady named Hajjamma, a jogini (a sex slave at a temple). She decided break out of the tradition and turned into a saviour who rehabilitates others like her who are caught in this system of ritualistic sex 
 slavery. Her work inspired me to start the rehabilitation process for joginis when I was serving as the SP in Mahbubnagar. 
 
 
 As a trainee IPS officer in Eturnagarm, Warangal Dist, I often heard stories of how male officers would wield lathis and it was accepted as a mark of asserting authority. And it probably seeped into public perception and representation by media, but I did not want to take that along. Policing could use some femininity. I know a lot of female police officers who are doing amazing work, and they are feminine.
 Women make up only 7.28 per cent of the total police force. Think about it, we have only 7 per cent of female officers to serve 50 per cent of Indian population. With 2.47 per cent, Telangana has the lowest quantum of policewomen. We definitely need more female officers. 
 
 
 It is problematic that there are so few women policemen in anti-insurgency operations. See, when an anti-extremist force is stationed in a conflict area, they integrate with the local community to get intelligence 
 inputs about the extremist cadre. That’s where a women component in an armed wing of police force becomes highly important, as it’s women who can deal with women. However that’s absent in many such teams. a strong emphasis on sensitivity is critical to police training. It must be at the centre of police training. So if a woman is in the team, not only does the collective aggression go down, but also helps in post conflict recovery. I firmly believe there should be more women in the armed wings of the police force. 
 
 
 In my understanding, why women don’t prefer to join the police force is because of the stereotypical representation of women in media. Take any typical Telugu or Hindi film. a woman police officer is projected as as this overtly manly and aggressive type, who beats up 10 guys. But in reality, policing is not as aggressive a job as it is made out to be. I have been in police force for 10 years and never had an opportunity to beat up people. It’s a leadership position and an administrative job. We don’t randomly take out guns and shoot people as shown in movies. That’s not our job, but that’s the public perception which doesn’t make women want to join.
 Even when we advertise for the job, the importance is given to the physical attributes of the candidate, but never on the aptitude of a person to perform as a police officer. 
 So every time we say there are not enough women in the force, pat comes the reply from most states that ‘We have 33 per cent reservation, and we have done our bit but people are not joining’. But why the women are not coming forward? We need policy changes in terms of how we project ourselves and how we invite applications from women. Many women don’t even inform their families before giving interviews, that’s the present situation.
 
 
  Yes, in fact, when I joined I was mostly addressed as ‘Sir’ during the initial days. But things changed soon after. Media largely treats us as novelty. You are either an aggressive manly cop or a fair-skinned beautiful cop. Contributions of so many unsung heroes get lost. Citizens don’t really care whether you are male or female, as long as you deliver. 
 
  
 I think, to truly redefine the police force, we need to look at it from a human and societal point of view. I’m a firm believer in the concept of collaborative policing, which I undertook in Karimnagar in Jagtial sub division (which is now a district). There, the police-population ratio was extremely low but the number of law and order challenges were high especially due to the Telangana agitation. So I came up with this concept of collaborating with the stakeholders. Like say, a sarpanch who will sound us off about the illegal activities happening in the village. collaborative policing helps us reach out to the community and tell them, ‘hey we are here to serve you, so help us do so.’ This worked out especially beautifully in Telangana villages as it’s the women who run the economy. In Telangana if you go to a village, people who work in the field,who run the family, who send children to school, who manage local self-help groups, are all women. They are the first ones to extend support to the police, not the men. I wasn’t expecting this. Of course we can’t deny that on their own, they never came to the public sphere, to the police, but when made that effort to reach out to them, they had the most to say.
 
 
