Sophie Kinsella, bestselling British author of the popular Shopaholic series, is known for her humorous and candid writing style, making millions of women fall for her books and relatable characters. Her latest book 
  is another hugely satisfying book for a fan of this genre that traces the development of something more serious-- the marital life of two successful individuals. 

 Londoners Sylvie Winter and her husband Dan have a perfect marriage of ten years with compelling careers and a great family life. This seemingly perfect couple with admirable health and good work-life balance is the envy of friends. But the moment their doctor says they may have sixty-eight more years of togetherness, panic sets in. In order to spice up the marriage, Sylvie and Dan devise a project, 'Surprise Me' where they both try to woo each other, unfortunately with disastrous and comical results. Such 'surprising' encounters open buried secrets, unearthing the fact that the couple may not be perfect after all. But the characters grow along the process of unwanted discoveries, especially Sylvie. Kinsella does not leave her readers wondering what could-have-been, but instead, she works to provide a solution, and a psychological progress of the character highlighted. 
 
 Though projected as a light read, the novel does much more than that. Told in a hilarious manner, it is an insightful exploration into the world of a married couple, struggling to keep it fresh every day. The unexpected depth does not really bring one down, but in fact, adds a little perspective to the book. 
  is undoubtedly another one of  's greats. 
 
 
 
 
 
 writes, "This is a fast-moving and entertaining story with well-rounded and endearing characters." 
 
 
  writes, "In her signature fashion, Sophie Kinsella brings a cast of quirky, funny characters to this new work. [She] keeps the laughs coming…. Readers will follow the story with bated breath as the couple struggle to make their marriage right after everything they thought they knew about each other proves wrong.” 
 
 
  writes in a review, "Heartfelt . . . What at first seems like a light novel about familiar woes turns into a deeper story about trust, family, and perception.” 
 
 
