NEW DELHI: Is the   ( ) thinking of excusing some of the country’s top wrestlers from appearing for selection trials for the Asian Games?

 
 
 
 In a proposed move that could lead to major controversy, the WFI, in consultation with the chief national coaches, is exploring the idea of allowing top wrestlers like Sushil Kumar, Bajrang, Vinesh Phogat and   among others to skip the trials – the dates for which have not yet been announced — and directly send their entries to the Indian Olympic Association (IOA), which will then forward the list to Games organisers. The IOA has set June 30 as the last date for all federations to send names of selected athletes.
 
 
 
 
 
 WFI, however, can't totally call off the trials and must conduct it in at least some weight categories, else it will flout a Delhi High Court 2014 order ordering federations to conduct trials before major tournaments. In June that year, the WFI had not held trials before selecting Yogeshwar Dutt over Amit Dhankar for the Glasgow CWG.
 
 According to WFI sources, nothing has been finalised as the national camp in both   centres in Sonepat and Lucknow has just begun, but an informal decision has already been taken after privately consulting the coaches and wrestlers. Top WFI officials remained evasive in on the issue.
 
 “We are working in this direction. There’s a good possibility that top wrestlers will be excused from appearing for the trials. When we know that a certain wrestler is good in his weight category and there’s no competition for him/her, then why to unnecessarily ask them to go through the trials,” said a source.
 
 “Both the Commonwealth and Asian Games are happening within a close span, so it’s not prudent to hold trials in every weight category. Sometimes, in such a scenario, the wrestlers find it very difficult to either reduce or increase their weight to match their weight division. Their preparation also gets affected as they start thinking of clearing the trials rather than focusing on the tournament itself. We know that Sushil is best in the 74kg category at the moment, so he may not be necessarily called for trials. Same goes for Bajrang as he’s very strong in 65kg, or for that matter Vinesh in 48-50kg category. Their recent current performance (notably the Gold Coast CWG) and progress at the training camp can be considered for their selection,” said the source.
 
 WFI’s decision, if implemented, could lead to deep divide among wrestlers, and it is being feared some aggrieved grapplers may even approach the courts, especially in the case of Sushil.
 
 
