KANNUR: A day after senior   leader K   stirred a row with his scathing attack on   leaders in the district, party leaders E P Jayarajan and P Jayarajan unleashed a counter attack, claiming that the Congress leader was a criminal and he had planned to assassinate  . They also alleged he has formed a nexus with the RSS. 

 "I was targeted by Sudhakaran's goons...They actually wanted to eliminate Pinarayi Vijayan but they could not. Hence, they targeted me as Sudhakaran had instructed them to kill whoever they could lay their hands on," E P Jayarajan said at a press conference here on Friday.
 
 The allegation came in the backdrop of claims by Sudhakaran that he was not involved in any such conspiracy. He had challenged Jayarajan to prove before a medical board that he had been hit by a bullet on his neck and it was still lodged there. 
 
 The incident had happened on April 12, 1995 near Chirala in Andhra Pradesh, when Jayarajan was returning by train from New Delhi along with some other leaders, after attending the party congress in Chandigarh.
 
 Though Jayarajan said the conspiracy behind the attempt on his life was hatched in Sudhakaran's house and that it was revealed by his former aide and driver Prashanth Babu, he refused to take up Sudhakaran's challenge to prove the bullet was still in his body.
 
 "He is a criminal, and I am not here to give him any reply, and he does not deserve any reply," said Jayarajan. He also said the trial into the conspiracy case on the attempt on his life was yet to begin, and hence Sudhakaran's claim that he was acquitted by the court was not true.
 
 Referring to the allegation made by Sudhakaran against Vijayan that he was involved in the murder of RSS leader Vadikkal Ramakrishnan in 1969, CPM district secretary P Jayarajan said it was based on an RSS agenda that they were raking up the issue again.
 
 The CPM leader also alleged that Sudhakaran had held a secret meeting with   president Amit Shah in Chennai and that the BJP leader asked him to wait for some more time before joining the BJP. "When Sudhakaran launched a hunger agitation demanding a CBI probe into the murder of Youth Congress leader Shuhaib SP, the BJP-RSS leaders had visited him, indicating that there was a nexus between the them and the Congress," he said. Alleging that 'quotation gangs' were under Sudhakaran's control, Jayarajan said the Congress leader was a criminal and that even leaders within his party were upset with him.
 
 
