The 
  before the Valentine’s Day is known as the 
  Every day has its own significance, which offers a different reason to celebrate it with your loved ones. It is the time of the year when love is in the air. People look forward to spending some quality time with their loved ones and make memories that can be cherished forever. As Valentine’s Day is around the corner, everyone is busy planning how to make this occasion a beautiful and memorable affair. 

 Let’s start with a little trivia: Also known as Saint Valentine’s Day or the Feast of Saint Valentine, the day is celebrated as a tribute to the roman priest St Valentine or Valentinus. Though it is not a public holiday in any country, but the day is celebrated across the globe where people express their feelings towards their loved ones.
 
 Here’s a 
  of all these days and how you can make these a memorable affair.
 
  
  
 
 
 The week kick starts from 7th February which is celebrated as Rose Day. Needless to say, people gift roses to their loved ones as a token of love. But before gifting one, make sure that you know what the roses signify according to the colours. For instance, red roses stand for love and yellow ones are meant for friends. Choose the roses carefully depending on what message you want to convey.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The second day (February 8) of the Valentine’s week is celebrated as Propose Day. Like the name suggests, this is the day meant for proposals. What could be a better day to express your feelings to your crush than the Propose Day? Even if you are in a relationship, you can still propose your partner and retake your vows on this special day.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 If there is anything sweeter than love, it can be none other than chocolates! No wonder, Valentine’s Week would have been incomplete without dedicating a day to chocolate. And the best thing about chocolates is that you can get these in different flavours and shapes. If your partner does not have a sweet tooth, you can gift him or her dark chocolates (more the amount of cocoa, the better it would be). For the ones who are hopelessly romantic and their meal is never complete without a dessert, gift them a box of heart shaped milk chocolates.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What’s so special about teddy bears that we have a special day designated to this fluffy and lovable soft toy? Named after US President Theodore ‘Teddy’ Roosevelt, this adorable soft toy was created to honour the decision of the President to not kill the animal durin one of his hunting trips. A teddy bear is perhaps the first love of many girls—a constant companion during her bad days or the soft pillow to hold onto as she slowly drifts off to sleep. Indeed, this adorable toy rightly deserves a day to celebrate the festival of love.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Celebrated on the fourth day of Valentine’s Week, this day stands for the promises and commitments couples in love make for each other. Be it the promise of spending a lifetime together or the commitment of being with each other through thick and thin, this day is celebrated to remember those promises that make a relationship stronger. On this day, you can surprise your partner by gifting him or her a handmade card where you can illustrate the promises you have made and fulfilled so far and don’t forget to add new ones to the list!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When everything goes wrong and you return home tired and sad, what can instantly make you feel better? A warm hug from your partner. February 12 is observed as Hug Day to celebrate this warm and beautiful expression of love. One this day, make sure to hug your partner not less than ten times throughout the day.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Ah! This is perhaps the most-awaited day of the week. Kiss Day (February 13) celebrates the most romantic moments shared by lovers. A kiss can speak a thousand words and it can heal any wounds that infect a relationship. Do we really need to tell you how to celebrate this day?
 
 
 
 
 Celebrated on 14th February every year, Valentine’s Day is perhaps the most important day in the life of a couple. If you haven’t yet declared your love, this is the perfect day to let your crush know your feelings. In case, you are already in a relationship, you can celebrate this day in numerous ways to make it an unforgettable affair.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
