India’s   tell two distinct stories. The first holds out hope as India’s   incidence is far lower than developed nations such as Denmark and the US. If cancer strikes over 300 out of every 100,000  , the corresponding number in India hovers around 80. But the second Indian cancer story is worrisome: cancer manages to get the upper hand in almost 70% of cases in India. A study in medical journal, The Lancet, in 2014 indicated only 30% of India’s cancer patients survive for over five years.

 So while India has lower cancer rates than many other countries, it has a high death rate. Check the World Health Organisation’s Globocan 2012 report’s analysis for breast cancer: only 1 out every 5 or 6 women newly diagnosed with breast cancer died in the US, but corresponding figures in India stood at 1out of every 2 patients.
 
 Experts said early detection could go a long way in reducing the high death rate caused due to illiteracy, fear and taboos. “In India, almost 50% of all cancers are seen in late stages. This is the reason our death rate is higher than western countries,” said senior medical oncologist Shona Nag.
 
  
 Maximum cancer patients succumb to lung, head and neck and breast cancers. “We lose almost 80% of all patients detected with lung cancer. The death rate due to breast cancer world over is 20%, but we lose over 50% of our breast cancer patients,” Nag said.
 
 Almost 80% of cervical cancer patients are diagnosed in stage 3-4 in India, but the West has almost eradicated this cancer due to regular pap smear tests. Given India's population, it is impossible to scan everybody. “Self-breast exams and clinical exams involving community workers or ancillary health professionals are hence crucial,” she added.
 
 Lack of awareness is the main cause for late detection. “In the western world, the culture is openness and they are more aware. Though we have facilities, we cannot reach out to such a huge population. Almost all cancers are detected at late stage in India mainly because of lack of awareness and social stigma,” said medical oncologist Anantbhushan Ranade.
 
 Cancer surgeon Anupama Mane said, “We have women with 10cm lumps who come to us late because the lump didn’t hurt or cause pain so they did not think a check was needed.” Moreover, men don’t discuss women’s health. “So a blood stain or excessive bleeding is dismissed and not taken up as cause for worry,” Mane said. Early detection is key to reduce mortality. “It is important to diagnose cancer early because then you have a chance at curing it. The spread and extent of it make it harder to control,” said oncosurgeon Snita Sinukumar. Lack of a dedicated health care system is one of the big reasons for higher deaths. “Just like Aadhar, we need to make it compulsory to invest in one’s own healthcare,” Sinukumar added.
 
 
