CHANDIGARH: Enraged   on Monday took to the streets against the move of the UT administration to conduct a survey of misuse and building violation in both the phases of Industrial Area.

 For the first time, Industrial Area was shut down for around three hours. Over the years, industrialists have been urging the administration for allowing changes to meet the growing needs. They have made changes in their properties in violation of norms.
 
 Trouble began when teams of estate office on Monday started conducting a survey of building violations and misuse from electronic market in Phase II. The teams were also videographing the alleged violation. Unhappy with the drive, industrialists first made an unsuccessful attempt to convince the teams to stop the survey and later closed their units in protest. The traders later blocked Sector 31-Industrial Area Phase II light point road for around three hours. They raised anti-administration slogans and demanded the administration should resolve their long pending issues. Industrialists cleared the road after the drive was stopped.
 
 Even though the administration has allowed some changes over the years, officials often refuse to alter many building bylaws. Besides cycle sheds, industrialists are not allowed to cover the open courtyard on their plots, making them vulnerable to theft. A large number of theft cases have been reported in industrial plots.
 
 The administration had set up Phases I and II of the Industrial Area during the 1970s on an area measuring 147 acres. The plots are governed by controls. There are 1,884 plots in both phases, of which 700 are one kanal and above, while there are 443 and 180 plots measuring 10 and 15 marla, respectively. There are as many as 381 plots are of 5 marla plots.
 
 Over the years, industrialists of the city have been at loggerheads with the administration for implementation of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006, in toto, besides other long-pending demands, which include need-based changes, enhancing ease of doing business.
 
 Criticising the action, Naveen Manglani, president of Chamber of Chandigarh Industries (CCI), said that all the problems will be resolved if the administration address their long pending issues.
 
 While echoing similar contention, YK  , president of Industries Association of Chandigarh ( ) said: “There will be no misuse if MSMED Act is implemented and no building violations if need based changes are allowed.”
 
 A delegation of industrialists met local   chief Sanjay Tandon who assured to take up the matter with the administration.  , another industrialist, said the negative attitude of the administration is pushing industry out of Chandigarh.
 
 Industrialists will meet UT deputy commissioner Ajit Balaji Joshi on Tuesday. Avi Bhasin, president, Chandigarh Industry Youth Association (CIYA), said they will be forced to intensify protest if the authorities fail to address their grievances.
 
 Units moving out
 
 Due to strict norms, unfriendly environment and high rentals, industrial units are moving out from Industrial Area in Chandigarh to Mohali. In the past one year, over 200 units, mainly of printing and manufacturing, have shifted base to   and nearby areas.
 
 No meeting of IAC in 2 years
 
 Industry Advisory Committee (IAC), constituted by Chandigarh administration for redressal of issues pertaining to industries, has not met since two years. Not only that, the committee has met just once since it came into being in September 2015. With an aim to deliberate and resolve long pending issues of the industry, the committee was constituted in September 2015 for two years.
 
 
 
 
