HYDERABAD: Uncertainty now prevails in the Hyderabad Metropolitan   and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) over the proposed mega water reservoir at Keshavapuram in Shamirpet mandal, about 25 kilometres from the city. The reservoir has been proposed to ensure reliable supply of potable water to Hyderabad and areas in its periphery.

 There has been no response to the tenders called for by the water board for the project. The water board has informed the municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) department about the nil response to tenders. After reviewing the tender process, the MA&UD asked the water board to call for tenders afresh. The last date for submission of the tenders is January 18.
 
 Water board officials claim that the response was poor due to lack of experience among contractors in construction of mega reservoirs. The reservoir is a huge project and since there are a few firms in the country that had executed such projects, the board could not get the desired response, they said.
 
 “This time, we are expecting response. On January 18, we will open e-tenders and evaluate them. Then a report will be sent to the tenders’ committee for it to take the process forward,” HMWS&SB director-technical,” PS   told TOI. Though the government announced to build two mega drinking water reservoirs including Keshavapuram and   (  district), it had thus far cleared only Keshavapuram for tenders.
 
 The board completed the survey on land for the construction of reservoir at Keshavapuram six months ago. It found that 1,572 hectares will be required. Of this, 1,200 hectares will be private land, and 372 hectares fall under reserve forest (RF). The cost of the reservoir is estimated at Rs 1,700 crore.
 
 The government had allocated 10 tmc ft of Godavari water to the water board from Yellampally / Pranahitha project to fill the reservoir. A treatment plant will be set up at Bommarajupally with a capacity of 172 MGD. It will be the country’s largest water treatment plant.
 
