The inspector general of registration (IGR), Pune — which has been charged with registration of crucial documents — is the state’s second highest revenue source after the excise department. Last financial year, the department helped the government earn over Rs 11,000 crore.

  
  
 But across Pune district’s 27 sub-registrar offices, getting documents registered has become troublesome. Over the past three months — six years after the process went online — server glitches have increased waiting time. What’s supposed to take only a few minutes, now takes much longer.
 
 There are allegations that claim nothing is being done to improve the technology being used by the registration department.
 
 Shrikant Paranjape, president of CREDAI, Pune Metro, says the process is in need of some improvements. “Besides server breakdowns, the software being used is to be blamed too. The software being used still doesn’t reflect amends in property rules,” Paranjpe says.
 
 Builders are facing allegations too. They have been accused of booking multiple slots for registrations at the property offices. But Paranjpe says it’s just a matter of numbers. “About 90% of registrations are by developers. If developers book the most slots, it’s only natural that others feel they are being made to wait,” he said.
 
 Lawyer Amol  , vice president of Pune District Conveyancing Lawyers’ Association, says the registration of sale deeds has become a “major problem”. “Computers simply refuse to save data. The state gets a lot of revenue from our clients every day, but we are not getting facilities in return. Even the offices’ print-outs lack quality.”
 
 Kajale-Patil adds that the sub registrar has no power to verify title of documents due to lack of provisions in the Registration Act. This, he says, is encouraging registration of illegal properties. “We have called for criminal action against officials involved in registering illegal properties. The state is getting no revenue from these registrations.”
 
 However, problems are not limited to computers. Lawyer  , a former president of the Public Trust Practitioners’ Association says staff at the registration offices are not even polite. “People asking why documents are taking so long are given extremely rude responses. The officials also take a lot of time to vet documents before they are registered — this shows a lack of expertise. For instance if a will is to be registered, details of property or stamp duty are not required. But citizens are forced to waste time getting those registered too.”
 
 Businessman Reza Nadatian says her appointment ran into two days. “I was given an online appointment at 4pm for the sub-registrar’s office at  . I reached at 2pm only to be told to come the next day because of the rush,” he says Builder Vijay Sancheti says the department’s condition contradicts promises.
 
 “We talk of a Digital India, but the queues here are long. The server is almost always down; there is no back-up during power cuts; and we are not sure if documents are being registered or not.”
 
 Civil lawyer Eshwar Bora says people are often forced to make multiple visits to the registration offices.
 
 “The situation at the office of a sub registrar at taluka level is even worse. In fact, I can use the word pathetic to describe it. People from farflung locations come here, but server glitches — due to data load — force them to make multiple trips just to get some papers stamped.”
 
 A top official from the IGR admits everything is not shipshape. Supriya  , Deputy Inspector General of Registration ( ), says the warranty on a crucial server expired last year. “The server setup was bought in 2012 — the warranty expired in 2017. The life of the server’s hardware and storage capacity has come to an end. The government has proposed to set up a new system 
  at a cost of around Rs 25 to Rs 30 crore. For now, we have appointed two agencies for the maintenance work of the servers — the situation has improved,” she says.
 
 Karmarkar-Datar says registration time has increased because of a high number of customers.
 
 “It takes time to take their photos, thumb impressions or signatures. But we ensure all appointments are attended to on the same day. We remain open till 9pm so that people don’t suffer,” she adds.
 
