CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Monday dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of All Indian Hindu Mahasabha leader Sadhvi Deva   and two of her associates in relation to a murder case.

 A woman was killed on November 15, 2016 at a marriage palace in Karnal after   and her associates started firing indiscriminately on the dance floor during a marriage function.
 
 She was booked for murder, attempt to murder and several other sections of the Arms Act. Seeking pre-arrest bail, Thakur had argued that the incident was sporadic in nature, there was no premeditation, thus, the offence under Section 302 (murder) under the IPC has not been made out.
 
 The state government, however, argued that the accused had come to attend the function well armed.
 
 “The complainant has given vivid description of the manner, in which the incident took place. The allegation is that due to resistance put up by the complainant at the time Sadhvi along with her followers came on the stage with weapons, she fired towards the complainant with her revolver and instigated other companions to do the same. Admittedly, the complainant’s wife died in the incident. In such circumstances, no ground for granting the concession anticipatory bail is made out,” observed Justice   while dismissing her plea.
 
 Justice   was also of the view that court has to be conscious of the fact that prayer in the nature of anticipatory bail is a concession and not a right. Keeping in view the gravity of the allegations, the manner in which the crime is alleged to have been committed, no case for grant of pre-arrest bail is made out. Custodial interrogation of the accused may be necessary to take the investigation to its logical end, observed the HC.
 
 The court, however, clarified that it is not clear whether thorough investigation has been carried out by the investigating agency on the basis of version of the complainant. It shall, thus, be at liberty to move appropriate application before the court concerned for conducting further investigation, if required, held the HC.
 
 
