CHANDIGARH:   Congress may have registered a comfortable win in Shahkot bypoll but the challenge for the party lies within. The party now has 78 seats in the 117-member Punjab assembly, reaching the two third mark. However, that throws up a challenge to convincingly accommodate its senior leaders and manage dissent among its own top brass.

 The party already faces a problem of plenty manifested itself when it struggled to appoint its senior officers as heads of boards and corporations as it could go against the rule of office of profit. The plan to accommodate a section of MLAs as legislative secretaries too has failed to materialise. Keeping the flock together will top chief minister Amarinder Singh’s priority ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 Party leaders like technical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi have been repeatedly embarrassing the party with their public statements. Channi also led a delegation of disgruntled Dalit leaders, who claimed that their seniority was ignored by not giving them cabinet berths. Three senior MLAs Randeep Singh Nabha, Amarjit Singh Dhillon and Rakesh Pandey later meet party president Rahul Gandhi to register their discontent.
 
 “There are senior MLAs who are desperate to become ministers while there are ministers who are not happy with their portfolios. The recent cabinet expansion seems to have done more harm than good. Besides, every party MLA wants certain influence in the constituency with greater say in the bureaucracy and police. Many of them prefer to camp in Chandigarh as they await appointment of officers who can tow their line,” said a   leader.
 
 “The party has leaders like  , who has direct access to Rahul and Priyanka. Then there are seniors like  , who are new to the party. Amarinder does have the charisma to exert his undisputed leadership but he will still have to deal with minor bickering here and there,” added a party MLA. A section of party MLAs also want a system where they can voice their grievances and get things moving with intervention from the party leadership.
 
 
