NEW DELHI: A day after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal apologised to former Punjab minister and SAD functionary Bikram Singh   for his drug mafia allegations, the opposition   demanded in the Delhi   that the   should now apologise to Union finance minister Arun Jaitely for accusing him of corruption and Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash for an alleged assault by AAP MLAs.

 Outside the assembly, leader of opposition Vijender Gupta demanded Kejriwal’s resignation. He said the CM had admitted in writing that he was withdrawing his statements against Majithia. “Now the morality says that he should resign from the post of CM. Kejriwal now has no moral right to continue as CM because it seems that he used lies to get to power,” Gupta added.
 
 Alleging that the entire foundation of AAP is based on lies, the BJP leader said, “The party’s unprecedented victory in the 2015 assembly polls, when it won 67 out of 70 seats, was also because he used lies to get people’s support.” Gupta claimed that the CM had spoken against his political opponents and levelled serious allegations without verifying facts.
 
 Delhi Congress also demanded that the CM should resign for “betraying the people of Delhi” and said it would hold a demonstration outside the CM’s residence on Tuesday. “Has Kejriwal struck any deal with Majithia to give him a clean chit,” wondered Delhi Congress chief Ajay Maken.
 
 Armed with the CM’s letter of apology, BJP MLA  , who is originally from SAD, raised the Majithia issue in the assembly and sought a declaration from the speaker that whatever Kejriwal says in the assembly is true.
 
 Most AAP functionaries, on the other hand, maintained complete silence on the turmoil in Punjab and also refrained from commenting on Kejriwal’s apology. However, many of them expressed concern over the latest developments and admitted that it would be difficult for the Punjab AAP to defend the apology. 
 
 Using the AAP functionaries’ silence, Gupta said, “No AAP functionary is standing with the CM on the issue. Nobody is saying that he has done the right thing. The CM should also apologise to the party functionaries and AAP workers.” 
 
 The leader of opposition further claimed that the “allegations of EVM tampering levelled by AAP are also false” and demanded an apology for these “lies” and AAP showing EVM tampering by using a fake machine in the assembly.
 
 
