NOIDA: Eight years after the concept of   was announced, and nearly four years after it became ready for use, the Noida   has re-launched a scheme for allotment of 501 plots in the area. It launched the same scheme in September 2015 but with a lower land allotment rate of Rs 18,180 per sqm. At the time, applicants alleged irregularities and approached the judiciary for reprieve, which led to the scheme being unsuccessful. In 2011 too, the Authority had initiated a scheme with a land rate of over Rs 77,000 per sq m but saw no takers due to the exorbitant allotment rate.

 The multi-crore project has been developed on 26 acres in Sector 69. It has been set up to benefit thousands of transporters and bus operators and help decongest main roads where drivers park their vehicles.
 
 According to officials, the plots on offer range from 120 sqm to 150 sqm. “These plots will be allotted to local transporters and bus operators in Noida’s notified area,” said a Noida Authority official. “They can construct their transport office here. The scheme will be open-ended and draw of lots will be held every month once we receive applications and after their due verification. Plots will be allotted through a draw of lots. “A rate of Rs 24,060 per sqm has been fixed. Location charges will be added over this,” the official added.
 
 The maximum ground coverage allowed in the area will be nearly 60%, while the floor area ratio will be 1:50 along with permission to build a basement. The transport hub will accommodate nearly 2,500 vehicles at a time. The transporters will also have a godown in the basement, offices on the ground floor and resting rooms on the first floor.
 
 The Transport Nagar will also have two petrol pumps, one of which will be a CNG station. “We have tried to incorporate suggestions made by transporters during the mapping. We also have green belts and wide roads on the site, along with public conveniences and commercial zones,” the official added.
 
 Officials said Transport Nagar will offer Delhi roads a respite from heavy commercial vehicles. Heavy traffic from Baghpat, Badaun, Meerut, Hapur, Faridabad, Gurgaon, Rohtak, Sonepat and other areas of   will come directly to the Nagar via expressways. Approximately 1,000 to 1,500 commercial vehicles enter Noida on an average every day, officials said.
 
 “Transport Nagar will solve the concerns over illegal parking in the industrial area and help bring the entire logistics solutions under one roof,” said  , president, Noida Transporters Association.
 
 The Noida Authority on Monday also announced an open-ended industrial scheme to allot a dozen plots measuring over 5 acres in four sectors in Noida. These plots are located in sectors 155, 156, 157 and 159 along the Noida-Greater Noida expressway. The allotment rate fixed for these plots is Rs 13,090 per sq m.
 
 
