MEERUT: In a   working in   government’s primary and upper primary schools, they will not have to follow the   before seeking inter-district transfer. 

 In a fresh order from UP special secretary S Rajalingam to the director (basic education), instructions have been issued that if a woman wants to be posted to the district of her husband or that of her in-laws, much before the completion of the five-year service term, the requests should be "thought over and instructions be given in her favour".
 
 There are a total of 5.85 lakh primary and upper primary teachers in government schools of Uttar Pradesh. “In general circumstances, teachers cannot be transferred to another district until they complete five years at the posted district. But after some amendments, it has been decided that in special cases when women ask for posting to a district where their husbands reside or their in-laws stay, they will not have to follow the mandatory five-year clause and their requests can be thought over and instructions be given in their favour,” read the order issued by the special secretary.
 
 Soon after coming to power, Yogi government had approved a new transfer policy for teachers where special arrangements were to be made to ensure that both husband and wife are posted in one district. Approved by the cabinet in June 2017, the policy is aimed at ensuring equitable, demand-based distribution of teachers to protect academic interest of students and optimise job satisfaction among employees in a fair and transparent manner.
 
 Notably, the mandatory clause of minimum service required in a posting has kept changing under different regimes. Under the Samajwadi Party rule, the minimum mandatory clause was of three years, education authorities told TOI.
 
 Under a policy drafted in 2010 particularly keeping in mind the convenience of women teachers on the instructions of then chief minister Mayawati, women primary teachers seeking transfer after marriage were given preference. 
 
