CHANDIGARH: When Shristi   (31) heard from people from Hong Kong, that they love India for Taj Mahal and its beauty, but they would still not visit the country because they think its unsafe, she could not understand what it meant. 

 “I am basically from the corporate sector and I had never worked in social development sector. But about 5 years ago, I took a break from my previous job and took a u-turn into the social sector. My job in Hong Kong involved a lot of interaction with people across the spectrum. It took me to Japan, Australia and   and everytime, I would sit down and have dinner-table conversations with people, I would hear India being spoken about very differently . They would say India is beautiful, it has the Taj Mahal and they would say that they want to come and see that. But they would not like to travel around because the country is unsafe. One would say he do not want to travel with his wife, because she would get groped and they have had friends who have had terrible experiences. They asked me why do men in my country rape?,” said Shrishti with a look of concern.
 
 She said hearing similar things about India time and again disturbed her and she could not believe that India is getting ranked globally in this spectrum, until she came across the sensational National Highway 91 rape case in which a woman and her daughter were gang-raped before the father and the brother in Bulandshehar. 
 
 “I was very shocked and disturbed after this and when I was talking to people back home about the incident, they used to give strange reactions. They would say that this is India and it’s good that I went to Hong Kong. Some would say ‘What can I do, this is the system,’ ” added Bakshi. 
 
 From her experience, Bakshi said out of twenty people from overseas, only two have the courage to come to India and travel with great precaution. 
 
 Hence, to take matters in her own hands and to change the notion that ‘one person cannot bring a change’, Bakshi set-off on an on-foot journey from Kanyakumari to Kashmir. She began this six months ago on September 15, 2017 to raise awareness about women and girl child safety in the country.
 
 Co-incidentally being in the city on the day of Chandigarh Urban Fest-18, Bakshi marched with the fellow Chandigarh residents while holding the flag of ‘Crossbow’, the name of the project under which Bakshi is currently treading through the country.
 
 Being a solo-walker, with a team of twelve people, Bakshi has decided to cover a distance of 3,800 km in 260 days. Till now, Bakshi has completed a distance of 3,155 km and has reached  .
 
 Being an alumnus of   (ISB), she and her team’s stay has been accommodated by ISB, Mohali campus from where she would embark her on-foot journey towards Ludhiana and Jullundur. “We actually spend a lot of time in rural areas of the country and very little in the cities because our aim is to motivate women and girls with financial and digital literacy. I walk for 30 km a day. After lunch by 2.30pm, I engage with the locals of the area I am staying and hold workshops and training programmes with women and young girls there,” Bakshi added. Her team comprises of logistics, operations and other heads and also has a documentary crew that is supported by corporate giant Apple. 
 
 Bakshi claims to have interacted with 45,000 people within the last six months. “I have learnt activism unfortunately in Hong Kong and not from my own country because I think youth in this county is still not engaging enough to change the country. Most of them are armchair activists. They think raising a concern on Twitter is enough, but there is no change at the ground level. Even people who work in the social development sector do not get help. We need to help people instead of pointing fingers at police and the government agencies by calling them ‘bad’. We all have to ask ourselves what is my own contribution in changing the system,” said Bakshi, who turned 31 on Sunday as it was her birthday. originally belongs to Dehradun. 
 
 Stressing on the importance of including gender and self-defence as a subject in school curriculum, Bakshi spoke about holding lectures and workshops on gender rights from the school-level to overcome the fear and the gap from childhood itself. “I think it will take us two to three generations to overcome the disparity at the household level in India,” she added.
 
 
