
 
 
 
 A year ago, Mumbai businessman Prateek Damani was searching the net for effective anti-mosquito options for his joint family that included five kids. He chanced upon a blanket and curious about whether it would live up to its promise of keeping the blood-suckers away, he ordered one. “Now, I even carry one along when I travel for work,” says Damani, who has bought three to four blankets.
 
 The blankets are coated with a diluted form of DEET — or N,N-diethyl-meta-toluamide — a widely used repellent. “The blanket repels mosquitoes but does not kill them or knock them unconscious,” says Anil Kumar, an executive at Posse Enterprises, a Mumbai-based company that manufactures blankets and curtains that repel mosquitoes.
 
 With the   menace growing every year, all kinds of innovative products such as ACs, lamps, patches and bands have hit the market. They co-exist with traditional insecticides dominated by Godrej, Reckitt Benckiser and Jyothy Labs. A 2016 Euromonitor report found that India’s insect repellent market clocked Rs 4,400 crore in retail sales each year.
 
 Bhavna Kulshrestha, a homemaker, has installed an anti-mosquito air conditioner by LG in her daughter’s bedroom. “I was reluctant to use chemical repellents for my five-year-old daughter. The AC is quite effective, though there are nights when I have to use a vapouriser as well,” says Kulshrestha, who lives in Bengaluru.
 
 According to LG Electronics’ business head for ACs in India, the brand has sold close to 3 lakh units of its ‘mosquito-away’ model since its launch in 2014. “It uses ultrasonic waves to repel mosquitoes. We have also launched TV and mobile phone models with this feature in India,” says Kulbhushan Bhardwaj, business head, LG electronics, India.
 
 Mahesh Toshniwal’s startup, Aviral Resources, has developed an outdoor mosquito killing system. “Mosquitoes are attracted to the CO2 that humans exhale so, this machine emits controlled amounts of the gas over a period of time, fooling these bugs into sitting on it. They are then consumed by the machine,” says Toshniwal who has sold 2,000 units since 2011 mostly to hotels and municipal corporations. Each unit costs Rs 75,000 plus taxes. Even Gujarat Narmada Valley Fertilisers & Chemicals, a PSU, has announced plans to introduce mattresses coated with neem oil to keep bugs away.
 
 Bog Orchid, a mosquito killing device developed by MGH Labs in Chennai, has sold more than 1,500 units since its soft launch late last year. "This device works by vaporizing a liquid that emits pheromones, carbon dioxide and heat like human body, and hence attracts mosquitoes to it. Once inside the device, the bugs suffocate and die," explains Gokul Rajasekaran, founder MGH Labs. 
 
 Electric lamps attract mosquitoes with a combination of bright light and CO2. A high-speed fan draws them into the unit where they get trapped and die. 
 
 While these products are new and promising, they can’t match the appeal of Chinese-made electric bats. Sold at traffic intersections and local shops, the bat, costing around Rs 170 – Rs 300, has become a household staple. The charged bat zaps the insect, killing it immediately with a soul-satisfying frying sound. It’s fast, cheap and effective, and does wonders for your forehand.
 
 However, there have been concerns over the use of lead in its components. Internationally permissible concentration of lead in electronic goods is less than 1,000 ppm (parts per million) but the China-made bats have been found to contain between 3,000 and 80,000 ppm. Once discarded, the lead from these bats finds its way into soil and water.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 : Herbal oils and extracts
 
  
  
 
 These white, round circular patches made of soft fabric are to be put on clothes or a bed. Do not apply them directly on the skin. We put two such patches on the wooden cot of a seven-month-old baby for a night. The patches stuck easily to the surface and gave away a strong citrussy spa-like odor.
 
 
 : In the morning there were no angry, red bite marks on the baby, who slept through the night peacefully.
 
 
 
 
 
 Herbal oil and extracts
 
  
  
 
 This was a bright yellow rubber band with a picture of the cartoon character Doraemon. It’s clearly targeted at children but we used it on an adult. It snaps around the wrist with a snug fit. Then, as per the instructions, we pricked holes in the elastic dial.
 
 
 No bites or annoying buzz of mosquitoes. However, the citrusy smell is strong and tends to wake you up if the hand comes close to the face.
 
 
