NEW DELHI:   is turning into a   with the   of three major   — BJP, AAP and Delhi Congress — now situated within a distance of half a kilometre. This has resulted in a sudden   in the volume of   at the already congested  , and on Wednesday, a group of corporation workers marching towards the BJP headquarters was enough to clog DDU Chowk for nearly an hour.

 The protesters were demanding action against a BJP councillor who has allegedly misbehaved with the engineers of the malaria control department. 
 
 The police had to barricade DDU Marg at the Kotla Marg crossing around 1pm to prevent the protesters from marching ahead. This led to a confusion among drivers heading to Connaught Place and New Delhi station due to the lack of a U-turn and an alternate route. Adding to the chaos, some were even seen driving on the wrong side to return to the ITO crossing. The traffic police controlled the situation by diverting vehicles through Kotla Marg till the protesters were removed around 3pm.
 
 Police officers said the situation pointed towards the need for an urgent way to spread out the increased traffic volume on this road, which is expected to increase further when a court complex opens at Rouse Avenue in the next few months. 
 
 The 2-km DDU Marg handles around 60,000 vehicles every day as it is the shortest connector between ITO and Connaught Place. It also offers access to Tilak Bridge station and busy areas like Mata Sundri Road, New Delhi station (Ajmeri Gate side) and Kotla Marg.
 
 “As DDU Marg is not wide enough, traffic movement may get disrupted due to on-street parking during important court hearings,” said a traffic police officer. 
 
 The presence of three major political parties already calls for working out alternative parking spaces during important meetings, he added.
 
 The police have proposed turning DDU Marg into a one-way stretch during the VVIP meetings. The proposal is still being considered by the joint committee, which also includes PWD, that prepares the traffic circulation plan.
 
 
