NAGPUR: The final day of the two-day National Students Parliament organized by   at its   facility focused on the awareness perspective of public under the themes of ‘Liberties under Article 21 and Rights to Privacy’, ‘Media: Truth or TRP’ and ‘Redefining freedom @70’.

 Commenting on Article 21, retired Justice GS Sanghvi said, “Constitutional awareness is a must for everyone and neglect on the same in any form can be lethal. Understanding the rights provided by the constitution should be on the priority list if one aims to become a responsible citizen of the country.” Sanghvi added that the topic has become a very big issue for the citizens who are aiming to protect their dignity in the matter.
 
 Sonal Kumar, a lawyer, added that privacy is in direct relation with the standard of life. “The foremost thing when discussing about privacy is defining its boundaries and subsequent details. One of the primary issues is exploitation of personal details and keeping the same in mind the apex court proclaimed its decision to call privacy a fundamental right. Students are the future of the country and their involvement in the same needs to be of the highest degree.”
 
 “Questioning is one of the primary strengths of a citizen in a democratic country. National security is important but not at the cost of its citizens. While considering this segment people need to be made aware of the happenings,” added  , noted journalist.
 
 Under the topic of media and its motive, Shama Mohammed, Sucheta De, Jency Jacob and AAP leader Ashutosh shared their views. De opined that owing to business interests certain media houses are ignoring the essence of real journalism. “Real issues are vanishing from the news and not-so-important topics are given priority. Malpractices should not be done in the name of TRP.” Other speakers too echoed the thought and added that though few journalism houses still work towards making a difference, profit-oriented ideology has taken over the news spectrum.
 
 Speaking on ‘redefining freedom’, Major Gaurav Arya, said, “Orthodox perspectives needs to be dropped immediately if one wishes to take the country to highest level in the world. Everyone should remember that we all carry the same identity which is Indian and this pan identity is the single most powerful binding force for all of us.”
 
 Expressing powerful opinions against the politicians, another lawyer Abha Singh said, “The politicians from any political party are the opposite faces of the same coin. Most of them work for personal gains forgetting to serve the public during the process. Youth is the weapon to fight this and they must unite to work towards developing the country in the right direction rather than painting the nation in a particular colour.”
 
  opined that military needs to be strengthen and surgical strikes must be carried out against the countries which attack India.
 
 ends
 
 
