NEW DELHI: NCR has recorded a drop in overall bird   on the Big Bird Day recently — an annual birding event across the region where birders set out to   different species with 238 species counted this year as compared to 268 in 2017.   species across different locations in the capital also recorded a slight drop compared to last year, however there has been significant increases in locations like Tughlakabad, Tilpath Valley and Okhla bird sanctuary when compared to data from last year.

 
  
 
 The important sightings recorded this year included the oriental scops owl — last seen in 2011 on the outskirts of NCR and extremely rare for the region; a brown-hawk owl which was sighted at Asola and a pair of grey-headed lapwing at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park. “We are studying if the migratory owl species have become residents in the capital or not,” said Dr Surya Prakash, zoologist, JNU.
 
 Birders across the region feel the overall drop in numbers could be due local climate change which may be affecting the migratory pattern of certain species, forcing them to leave early. “By this time last year, a lot of the species hadn’t left but this time temperatures have been very high and a few species have left. There has been little rainfall this winter and the temperature has been warmer than normal which could have resulted in this drop,” said Nikhil Devasar, organiser of the event.
 
 According to the results, bird species almost doubled at Tughlakabad this year, increasing from 26 last year to 55 this time around while Tilpath Valley recorded 42 species this year as compared to 26 last year.
 
 Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said the increase at these locations could be due to better protection. “Grazing at Tilpath and Tughlakabad was reduced this year which has protected the scrublands and resulted in an increase in insect and invertebrate diversity. This in turn attracts more bird species to the area,” he said.
 
 Okhla also recorded a significant improvement with 99 species recorded this time around as compared to 71 last year. Team captain   said the increase could be attributed to careful scanning of the area and increased available of food this year. “The important sightings at Okhla this year included booted eagle, mallards, grey bushchat and greater spotted eagle,” said Waraich.
 
 
