NEW DELHI: Indian Institute of Technology Delhi has set up a   of   that will offer various courses from next year. 

 The IIT-D senate approved the setting up of the department on Wednesday. The institute also formed a national-level advisory committee comprising six members to decide the fate of 48-year-old Instrument Design and  .
 
 The new department of design will start by offering a minor programme this year to all its students. It aims at bringing technology closer to aesthetics and ergonomics. From next year, the department will offer degrees in bachelors, masters and PhD. “Design is one of the fastest growing fields and it is important in every aspect of technology. The look and feel is as important as technology used in a product,” said V Ramgopal Rao, director of IIT-D, adding that design is not an abstract exercise as it is instrumental in making the end product presentable. 
 
 Rao said the school will start full-fledged programmes from 2019-20 academic session. “This year, we are starting a minor programme for all students studying in IIT-D. Anyone can opt for this   as design is important in all fields of engineering,” he said. 
 
 With the setting up of the department, the fate of Instrument Design and Development Centre is hanging in the balance. Apart from IISc in Bangalore, it is the only centre to offer research in instrument technology. It is responsible for developing the controlling mechanism of the T72 tank, and modification of electronic voting machines. 
 
 According to a mail making the rounds among faculty members and administrative authorities (a copy of which is with TOI), the operations of the centre have been suspended and admissions for this year have not been advertised. Earlier, Instrument Design and Development Centre had offered 100% placements to its students and a review audit by the ministry of human resource development had appreciated the work done by it. The ministry had also highlighted the urgent need of faculty recruitment as only one faculty was appointed in the last six years. Some alumni have started a signature campaign alleging that instead of upgrading the centre, attempts are being made to close it.
 
 “It is a very old centre and a lot of changes have happened since then. A national-level advisory committee has been set up to look into what is needed to align it with the present times,” said Rao. 
 
 
