Surat: After suicide threat on Sunday by former BJP MLA from Olpad Dhansukh Patel and other farmers over the release of water from Ukai dam for irrigation, the state government on Monday decided to deliberate over the matter and come up with a solution at the earliest. This decision of the government was conveyed to the agitating farmers by tribal development minister Ganpat Vasava at a meeting held with them. Officer from district collector’s office and those from the irrigation department also remained present in the meeting. Vasava said, “We will be discussing the issue on Monday late evening and come up with a solution in a day or two.” Patel said they will wait for few days to see if the water is being released before deciding on further action.  On Sunday, Patel had threatened suicide along with other farmers of the region if water for irrigation was not released immediately for cultivation of paddy, sugar and vegetables in 36,000 hectares of land. With just 20% of water left in Ukai dam, the irrigation department is likely to release last rotation of water by May 10. However, Olpad farmers claimed that by that time, it would be too late to save their crops. “In the last rotation, our area was supposed to get water from March 29 to April 19. However, the supply began from April 3 and continued till April 15. The very little quantity of water was supplied that was insufficient for crops,” Patel told TOI. “This has happened for the first time, so we asked them to release last rotation for us from May 1. However, they are unwilling to do that. If they don’t release water, we would be left with no choice but to commit suicide,” claimed the former BJP MLA from Olpad. Currently, Ukai dam has 1,304 million cubic metre (MCM). Out of this, nearly 450 MCM of water would have to be released for irrigating 2 lakh hectare of land during the last cycle in May.  “The last cycle will start from May 10 as at many places the water is needed by May 20. For sugarcane and vegetables, this is ideal as it leaves 20-25 days gap before the rains arrive,” superintending engineer, Surat irrigation circle, S Mahakal said.  An official from irrigation department said the current issue does not affect all the farmers of Olpad, but a few from villages like Barbodhan, Bhandut, Pinjrat and others.