NEW DELHI:  's ( ) rating on Tuesday came under scanner of rating agencies   and Moody's as an aftermath of the Rs 11,300 crore fraud reported in the bank's Brady House branch in Mumbai. The decision means that the country's second largest lender may see a rating downgrade.

 
  Fitch placed PNB's   of 'bb' on   and said it will resolve Rating Watch once further clarity emerges on extent of control failures and the impact on PNB's financial position. Soon thereafter, Moody's placed the country's second largest lender under review for downgrade.
 
 In a note published by the agency, Fitch said, “The RWN (rating watch negative) reflects the possibility of a downgrade of PNB’s Viability Rating following the detection of a large fraud in one of the bank’s branches amounting to $1.8 billion. While the exact financial impact from this event is still being ascertained, it has raised questions on both internal and external risk controls as well as the quality of management supervision considering that the fraud went undetected for several years”.
 
 Viability ratings (VRs) of Fitch are designed to be internationally comparable and represent the rating agency's view as to the creditworthiness of an issuer. A poor viability rating refers to bank's inability to maintain ongoing operations and to avoid failure. On a scale of 'aaa' to 'f', PNB's current rating of 'bb' suggests mediocre performance by the bank. More specifically, 'bb' rating refers to moderate degree of fundamental financial strength. However, the rating also means that certain degree of vulnerability exists in the bank's state of affairs.
 
 On the other hand, PNB has an overall Baa2 rating with a stable outlook from Moody's. "The primary driver for today's rating action is the risk of weakening standalone credit profile of PNB, as a result of a number of fraudulent transactions" through fake letters of undertakings issued by the bank to other lenders worth $1.8 billion over the past many years, Moody's has said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
