MEERUT/NOIDA: Dreaded gangster and Mukim Kala gang member Sabir Ahmad was killed in an   late on Tuesday. Police constable Ankit Kumar (27), who was shot in the head, was rushed to Noida’s Fortis hospital where he died on Wednesday night.

 “Our brave colleague Ankit succumbed to his injury while undergoing treatment. We pay homage to the martyred constable,” the Noida police PRO said in late-night statement. 
 
 According to police sources, Kumar was hit on his right temple and his condition deteriorated fast. A green corridor was created by police in NCR for Kumar’s ambulance, which covered a distance of 70km in 42 minutes. “The doctors are offering best medical treatment. We are also calling other medical experts from Lucknow,” Noida SSP Love Kumar had said earlier in the evening. 
 
 A resident of Baghpat, Kumar joined UP Police in 2011. He has a wife, a daughter (4) and an infant son (5 months old). Ankit also has younger brother and a younger sister. “The family is shattered,” his father Jaiswal Tomar, who was at the hospital, told TOI.
 
 According to police sources, the encounter occurred a little before midnight in Jandheri village of Kairana area in   district. Ahmad carried a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head and the UP STF was on the lookout for him ever since he escaped a police team after a shootout in September 2017. In that shootout, another gangster, Wasim Kala, brother of Mukim, was killed. 
 
 Shamli superintendent of police (SP) Ajay Pal Sharma said, “We had a tip-off that the gangster was to visit his home village, Jandheri, late on Tuesday. Our teams had laid a trap for him but the moment he discovered our presence, he began shooting indiscriminately with a carbine in one hand and a pistol in the other. We knew he would be armed but had not realised he was carrying a carbine too. A constable was shot in the head while an inspector was injured. Ahmad was killed in retaliatory firing by our team.”
 
 Ahmad was arrested by STF in 2015 and had escaped police custody in May 2017 while he was being brought to a court hearing in Haryana from Sidharthnagar jail. He had allegedly gone on a crime spree since then.
 
 With the death of Ahmad, police claim to have broken the back of the Mukim Kala gang, most of whose members are either in jail or dead. “Ahmad was the biggest catch for police in west UP. His end also marks the end of the Mukim Kala gang. Ahmad had more than 20 cases of loot, murder and dacoity to his name,” said SP Sharma. Mukim Kala is currently lodged in jail and was arrested on October 19, 2015 from Noida. 
 
 His gang was held responsible for the reign of terror that led to many allegedly leaving Kairana, an issue which dominated the UP assembly election campaign in the region, with a BJP MP calling it an “exodus”.
 
 
