GURGAON:   to large parts of Gurgaon will be affected for 36 hours starting January 4, as the master water supply pipeline in   needs to be relocated. For this, Haryana Urban Development Authority has decided to shut down its Basai water treatment plant (WTP) from 6am on January 4 to 6pm on January 5, and has urged residents to store water to avoid inconvenience.

 Huda sub-divisional engineer   said a 900m-long pipeline from Basai WTP to Basai Chowk is being replaced, as the pipe has become old and leaks often, leading to disruption in supply. 
 
 He said the master pipe is directly linked with the WTP, which is why the latter needs to be closed down for the pipe to be replaced. “Replacement will be completed within stipulated time and we’re expected to resume supply from January 5 evening,” said Mallik.
 
 Huda will supply water till Wednesday, after which, supply will resume on Friday evening. Normally, Huda supplies water twice a day. “We urge people to store water and use it judiciously to avoid inconvenience,” said Malik.
 
 The city needs 90 million gallons per day (MGD) of water, of which 70 MGD is supplied by Basai WTP, while the remaining 20 MGD comes from the Chandu Budhera plant. The plants receive water from the Yamuna via the 70km-long Gurgaon Water Channel and  , through Kakroi village in Sonipat.
 
 The last time when the Basai WTP had to be shut down was in March 2016. At that time, Huda had closed down the WTP for 24 hours, to shift a pipe and facilitate construction of underpasses at Hero Honda Chowk and Rajiv Chowk. NHAI, which is responsible for constructing underpasses on the expressway, had shifted the pipeline then. This time, though, it will be Huda which will have to shift the pipe.
 
 A Huda official said most homes have storage tanks. “We supply water twice a day after 12 hour intervals. During the shutdown, residents will miss three such supply cycles,” said the official, adding that as a precaution, residents should store sufficient water to last them two days.
 
 Sector 17 resident   said water supply has been a perennial problem in Gurgaon. “For the last one year, supply was disrupted on several occasions, ostensibly for construction work along the expressway,” said Yadav. 
 
 He added that disruptions in supply during the last summer were attributed to several reasons, adding that authorities keep on making promises of uninterrupted supply, but it is far from becoming a reality till now.
 
 Sapna  , resident of Sector 43, said in case WTPs are shut down, authorities should make alternative arrangements. 
 
 “Water is essential and supply should not be disrupted in any case. If they are observing shut down, they should also make alternative arrangements for supply,” said Sharma, adding that authorities should provide water tankers during such shut downs.
 
 
