NAGPUR: This year again, local JEE coaching classes were torchbearers for Nagpur in   2018 exam, with their students holding on to the pole positions. ICAD coaching class produced the probable city topper in Vedant Bang (AIR 610) while IIT-Home’s Siddharth Agrawal (692) and Umang Chandak (770) completed the podium rankings. 

  
 
 The results came after an agonizing wait on Monday, with   officially releasing the result for JEE Main exam around 6pm. Some 10.74 lakh students had attempted it across India. The exam’s competitiveness can be gauged from the fact that just 2.64 lakh have qualified to appear for the JEE Advanced, which is the sole gateway for admissions to the prestigious IITs. 
 
 Though this year Nagpur struggled to break into even the top 500, respectable performances kept the city in hunt for its tag of a preferred destination for JEE coaching. A couple of students from Nagpur, however, did well in the categories (SC/ST/OBC) and marked their presence in the top 100.
 
 Rhushabh Gedam, student of Pace IIT & Medical scored AIR (SC) 11, said, “All of my two years of hard work has finally paid off. It’s a great feeling and now that I have cleared JEE-Main, my focus will be on Advanced. I am doing a revision of all the chapters and giving online exams on regular basis to get accustomed to its online pattern. I am doing a complete analysis of my mistakes and regularly revising them.”
 
 Shashank Raut, with AIR ( ) 97 and general AIR of 846, said, “Mathematics has been a problematic subject for me, and I think I could have scored better than the total of 269 marks with more practice. But now JEE Advanced is almost at the doorstep, and this is no time to mull over my past mistakes. I am polishing my weak areas and simultaneously working on strengthening other subjects as well, studying for six to seven hours every day and appearing for as many mock tests as possible.”
 
 Vedashree Chandewar, who got AIR (OBC) 285, said, “I am a little disappointed with my chemistry marks since it was always my forte, and looking at the grades now I feel I could have done better. But, I am not dwelling on my mistakes, and preparing for the next step with full zeal, studying for almost 12 hours a day. I hope I get selected in a good college so that I can pursue my ambition of becoming a scientist in the field of chemical engineering. I am also preparing for BITS and SAT, and keeping my fingers crossed.”
 
 Anvay Karmore, who scored AIR (OBC) 1082, said, “I believe consistency is the key to scoring good marks and I followed it while preparing for JEE Mains. I slipped in chemistry a little, which I am planning on strengthening now for JEE Advanced by appearing for mock tests and polishing basic concepts.” 
 
 
