New Delhi: In what could disturb the uneasy calm in the tussle between government and officers, a few senior bureaucrats came under heavy attack in the assembly on Tuesday for allegedly giving “false and incomplete” answers to questions. 

  Manisha Saxena was singled out for giving “imaginary” statements in a newspaper over an alleged incident that the government claimed never took place. At the insistence of  ,   RN Goel referred four matters to the question and reference committee. Saxena’s matter was also referred to the privilege committee.
 
 On Monday, AAP MLA Gulab Singh had sought information from deputy CM Manish Sisodia about an unconfirmed report that 50 people forcefully entered a government school and allegedly assaulted the principal and teachers after a student was scolded. Singh also pointed out that Saxena had given an interview about the incident to a Hindi newspaper. Sisodia claimed that no such incident had taken place. “Saxena used a fictionalised story to give the interview. Her fictionalised story has provoked the teachers of Delhi government against parents (sic),” Sisodia said in the assembly. 
 
 Saxena was present in the officers’ gallery of the House at the directions of the Speaker.
 
 As the secretary of the IAS (AGMUT) Association, Saxena has been at forefront of the officers’ tiff with government that has ensued after the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Prakash at the CM’s residence last month. 
 
 The other matters referred to the question and reference committee are related to the public grievances monitoring system, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board and PDS. Bharadwaj said: “The officers didn’t provide detailed information when asked to give a list of officials responsible for pending grievances under PGMS. They said the list was too long and could not be given. Now, the question and reference committee will ask them to submit the list.”
 
 He also claimed that officers gave incomplete replies to questions related to DUSIB. Urban development minister Satyendar Jain sought against officers who had given “incorrect answers”.
 
 AAP MLA Rakhi Birla alleged that when questioned about beneficiaries being denied ration, the officer concerned tried to “mislead” the House. Answers given to the questions raised by BJP MLA Jagdish Pradhan on the public distribution system were also allegedly “incomplete”.
 
 AAP’s Okhla MLA Amanatullah Khan objected to the presence of IAS officers in the House and sought a discussion on it. “The IAS officers are adopting pressure tactics. If this continues, how will we make them work,” Khan said. The speaker agreed to allow time for discussion on it.
 
 On Monday, Goel had ordered the privilege committee to probe a matter where officers of the vigilance department had allegedly refused to reply to a question.
 
 
