NEW DELHI: “This festival is the best   event in Asia,” says Thai puppeteer Paskorn Sunthornmongkol. He is referring to the 16th   International Puppet Theatre Festival, which began at the   on Tuesday and will run till February 27. With participation of puppeteers from eight countries, the performances will centre on fascinating stories of magic and mystery, friendship, humour and the changing times.

 Sunthornmongkol isn’t the only one excited. On this first trip to India, Remo Di Filippo of Italy says that puppetry has made a comeback in his country with newer styles. It had once been a prominent art form before television relegated it from popularity. Sponsored by the Italian Cultural Institute, Di Filippo tours the world with his family of marionettes in partnership with Rhoda Lopez. “A lot of people think puppetry is just for children, but it’s not,” declares Lopez.
 
 Though many may think that puppetry is struggling to stay relevant in India, despite its probable origins in the country, Dadi P Pudumjee, founder of Ishara Puppet Theatre Trust, remains optimistic. “The future is what you make out of it. It is something that each person has to work on,” he says, while pointing out that organisations like Sangeet Natak Akademi now support puppetry, indicating the upsurge in interest about the art form.
 
 This is partly confirmed by Shamshul Shams, a puppeteer from Saharsa district in Bihar. “Many schools in Noida and Gurgaon are encouraging us by calling us for workshops,” the 34-year-old says. Having learnt the art under Pudumjee, Shams has been associated for 15 years now with Ishara Trust. “Since this festival began in 2003, awareness about puppetry has increased in India, though a lot needs to be done. Art lovers do give us the respect, but show organisers bargain with us about our rewards,” he adds.
 
 Asked whether puppeteers get government assistance, Pudumjee reveals some state governments do help. “The Putul Yatra, a programme of the Sangeet Natak Akademi, is helping us. Even at this moment, a national puppet festival is going on in Silchar in Assam,” the veteran puppeteer says.
 
 Though puppetry may not be a serious career plan in India, artists abroad enjoy bigger encouragement. “In Brazil, puppetry came with the settlers in mid-16th century, at the time of the great discoveries,” informs Caio Stolai, who performs with Milena Stolai. “Puppetry, thus, can be said to have contributed to religious conversion in our country, and we have puppetry in our soul,” claims the visitor from the south American country.
 
 Sanjay Roy and his Teamwork Arts have been closely associated with the event since its inception. Roy, who has been trying to bridge the gap between India and the world by providing a powerful platform to the finest Indian writers, artists and performers, feels that people love the art of puppetry. “It’s just that we need to take it to the masses,” Roy tells TOI. “Providing creative platforms is important. A smart city will be a smart city only if platforms like India Habitat Centre are present there. The fourth revolution will be the coming together of technology and creativity, and we need to understand it.”
 
 The festival facilitates interactions among puppet theatre artistes and helps them grow collectively. Apart from India, the participating countries are Italy, Argentina, Brazil, Singapore, Thailand, Tunisia and Chile, Besides providing wholesome entertainment, it is an exchange programme where the puppeteers discuss traditional methods and learn about the newest trends.
 
 
