MUMBAI: Glancing at the Arabian Sea overlooking his room at a five-star hotel,   spreads his arms in his signature style. Perhaps ‘Gabbar’ is imagining that he’s just hit a hundred in front of a packed stadium. In a year which is packed with overseas challenges for the Indian team, one would hope that this ‘image’ keeps repeating itself, because, as India skipper   once said: “When Shikhar fires, he keeps coming at you.”

 
 
 
 Cooling down with his wife Ayesha Mukherjee a few hours before the Ceat Cricket Rating Awards, Dhawan looked like shaking off the after-effects of being part of a rigorous   campaign for the  , who lost to Chennai Super Kings in the final at the Wankhede on Sunday. In an exclusive interview to TOI, the 32-year-old claimed that since he was a ‘late entrant into the Indian team,’ he was still hungry to achieve more. Excerpts…
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 It was good. We lost our captain (David Warner) before the tournament began. Then Kane Williamson came along and he had a wonderful season. He’s a good captain. I had a good season too. We played in the final, though the result didn’t go our way. Overall, we played good cricket and enjoyed the season.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, it was a huge setback to lose Warner. He’s such a big player. My name was being discussed by people about captaincy, but the (SRH) management thought that Kane was the right choice. That’s normal. Williamson is an experienced captain. He’s calm, and took the team along, like a family. He’s amazing, and he led from the front.
 
 
 
 
 Of course. When I played him for the first time, I found him tough to deal with. However, now I’m used to playing him. If I play (in the XI), it’ll be a good challenge to play against him. I’ll look forward to scoring runs off him!
 
 
 
 
 Of course, there’s always pressure. There’s pressure to retain your spot in every team. It’s a good thing for Indian cricket that there’s so much competition (for the opening slot). All three of us are experienced. Rahul has done so well in the IPL, and in the (Test) series against Australia before that.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, our team is experienced. Our bowlers are fit. Bhuvneshwar (Kumar) has been rested for the Test against Afghanistan, so he’ll be fresh for England. We have other quality bowlers too. So, our bowling and batting both are good. Of course, the English wickets offer a different challenge. The faster we adapt to English conditions, the better it will be. We have to be good in all the departments, and that includes slip catching as well. England is a formidable side at home. We’ve to play exceptional cricket to beat them.
 
 
 
 Absolutely. That tour wasn’t great, but I learnt a lot from that. Now, I’m going to play in England after four years. I’ve gained a lot of experience in this period. I’m a better player than what I was the first time. I’m confident that this time, I’ll do well by the grace of God. Hopefully, things will go my way.
 
 
 
 
 Of course. The good thing is that all our batsmen are technically sound. They all have a burning desire (to do well). Sab ladke dil se khelte hain (everyone plays with passion). Everyone tries to do well. I don’t think anyone wouldn’t want to do well. Everyone wants to be a hero of a match, and God willing, that will happen.
 
 
 
 
 That’s part of the game. The (team) management would have felt that KL was a better option than me at that moment. Of course, it was hard (on me) at that point, but you have to take it in your stride and keep working. So, when I was dropped, I was working on my fitness and in the nets. When I got a chance in the ODIs, I did well. I was happy at the end of the day.
 
 
 
 
 Of course. It’s not that my Test record is bad presently. I have an average of 42, and I’ve played Tests consistently for the last four-five years. I hope in my journey ahead from here, I improve my Test record. According to me, an average of 42 is also good. Maybe, it isn’t for you! In the ODIs, my average is 44-45, so 42 is good. Till now, I have played only 20-30 Tests, so it takes time. Everything takes time. Of course, I could have done well. I did my best. Sometimes it worked for me, sometimes it didn’t. Now with more experience, I am sure that things are going to go my way more.
 
 
 
 
 See, I am a big believer in process. I have the same attitude even if I play here, or in an ICC tournament. Naturally, my records have been good in ICC events, but it’s not like that I play there with a different attitude. I play with the same attitude, same way, whether I play in the IPL or the Ranji Trophy or for the Indian team.
 
 
 
 
 I knew that she was to be operated, so I wanted to be there (last year). And I was there for her. At that particular moment, I felt that was more important than cricket. It’s not like I don’t value cricket, but at that moment it was necessary for me to be there for my wife, so I chose to do that. Of course I missed playing then, but then when I came back, I started playing again.
 
 
 
 AB de Villiers. He’s a great batsman and more than that he’s a gem of a person too. A great leader. I have learnt a lot of things by just watching him. I’m happy that I played against him.
 
 
 
 Nothing as such. There’s a lot of cricket left in me now. I want to do better and better for me, and for the country. I want to keep playing for as long as I can, because I made it to the Indian team late in my career. I still have that passion within me. I know I can achieve a lot more. I want to make up for that lost time. Meri bhook abhi baaki hai (I’m still hungry for more success).
 
 
