Guntur: The mega   project, which was planned to give relief from traffic woes, is stuck with the   ( ) struggling to build the proposed road under bridges (RUBs). There are very little chances to build a flyover near Sankar vilas centre without constructing the RUBs to divert the traffic. 

 The state government had agreed to the construction of a two-km long flyover from Hindu college junction to Dr Ambedkar statue centre in the city, at an estimated cost of Rs 150 crore. Initially, civic authorities had mooted the idea to construct the flyover next to the existing one, thinking it would ease out the traffic congestion in the city. But the public representatives, including the local legislators,  , MP  , demanded that the old bridge be demolished before the construction of the four-lane flyover. 
 
 However, it is likely that the demolition of the old bridge as well as the construction of the new flyover will take around 24 to 36 months. So, the GMC officials have decided to build the RUBs to divert the traffic till the new flyover comes up there. The divisional railway authorities are also willing to give permission to the RUBs project. 
 
 After inspecting the site, minister of roads and buildings, Ch Ayyanna Patrudu, who is also in-charge minster of the district, asked both the GMC and R&B officials to work on the RUBs project first before the construction of the flyover. 
 
 However, the town planning officials of GMC reportedly faced resistance from the owners of the lands they need to acquire. The civic body needs to acquire land for about 30 ft on either side of the existing flyover, which might pull down some commercial complexes. The land owners are allegedly lobbying with the ruling party leaders to prevent the GMC officials from partaking of their lands. ‘It is impossible to develop two RUBs on the existing land. We are unable to convince the land owners of parting with their lands for the development work,” said a senior town planning official. 
 
 Stating that the construction of RUBs may take longer time with the land owners refusing to leave their lands in return of the grant of Transferable Development Rights (TDR), the official added, 
 
 “GMC can go in for the land acquisition through Act if the owners refuse to accept the TDRs. But it needs a lot of money and consumes much time as chances are there for the land owners to move to the court.”
 
 
