NASHIK:   ( ) has so far received lukewarm response to its scheme for regularising illegal constructions across the city. 

 In the last three-and-a-half months, ever since the civic body had issued notification to regularise these structures, it has received only 15 applications. According to civic body sources, there are over 3,000 such structures in the city.
 
 Last year, the NMC had issued a notification on December 1, inviting applications from builders, developers and owners of such constructions to get their unauthorised structures regularised by paying compounding charges. The NMC set a deadline of May 31 for regularising the illegal structures. A civic official confessed that the response has been rather poor. "We got only 15 applications. We don't know what is the reason, but people usually rush when deadline near," the official said. However, NMC officials are optimistic that in days to come the number of applications would swell and would increase its revenue.
 
 The move to regularise illegal constructions came after the state government issued a resolution on October 7 last year, stating unauthorised structures that came up before December 31, 2015 can be regularised by paying the compounding charges. The compounding charges are in the range from 10 to 30% of the Ready Reckoner (RR) rates depending on areas of illegal constructions. Apart from reservation on public utility places like playground, gardens and open spaces, unauthorised constructions on other reserved places wherein the reservation has been shifted to another location or cancelled and the land owner spent for that, the structures can be declared as compounded.
 
 Unauthorised constructions on rivers, pond, lakes, blue lines, defence/security areas, near heritage structures, at dumping ground, in environmentally sensitive area, on mountain slopes, coastal reserve zone, forest land, buffer zones, structurally unsafe buildings, development on land apart from residential, commercial and industrial land are not to be considered. 
 
 
