 might have ended but the rivalry, that was sparked off between   and   in the Bigg Boss house, is far from over. Recently, the two of them locked horns once again over a Twitter post that Shilpa had shared.

 
 As known to most,   and Hina Khan had criticized Shilpa Shinde when she had tweeted the link of the adult video featuring her lookalike. Now, Shilpa, who is not the one to take it lying down, gave a befitting response to the duo by tweeting: "Thank u Jo mujhe support Kar rahe Hain. Those who think am wrong, where were u, when such wrong videos made viral. अपने defense मैं कुछ नहीं बोल सकती क्या? Media took no time in making it viral that time, where r they today? Thanks SM for giving me platform to speak the truth."
 
 For the uninitiated, Shilpa Shinde was embroiled in a controversy last year when a video featuring her lookalike was seen in a compromising position with a man had surfaced on the net. The clip had gone viral from the get-go.
 
 Shilpa had taken to her Twitter account to clear the air by sharing a link of the said pornographic video with the message that read as: Plz see this u will get to know जिन्हें कोई काम धंधा नहीं है वह लोगों की जिंदगी इस तरह से बर्बाद करने की कोशिश करते हैं।👇🏼🙏🏻 यह है वह original लड़की ka VIDEO जो शिल्पा शिंदे का MMS leak हुआ है ऐसा बोला जा रहा है।
 
  
  
 Shilpa had also made an Instagram post in this regard:
 
 
  
 
 The post was welcomed by her fans but it had rubbed Hina Khan and her boyfriend, Rocky Jaiswal, the wrong way.
 
 Rocky was one of the first celebrities who jumped in to share his views. He wrote, “@ShindeShilpaS whatever happened with u is unfortunate n u hav a right to Spk abt it but I ask u, do u hav a proof of consent of the woman in ths video tht u can post it? If she’s the imposter u claim why don’t u go Legal instead of promoting porn on Sm being a responsible celeb?”
 
  
  
 
 Hina was also quick to come to Rocky's rescue as she joined in by tweeting: “Sad..anyone’s fans or regular trolls may get away by saying anything on SM but as a public figure we get a power to be able to reach to millions with just one tweet and at least we should be very careful n responsible. Especially in these times, real life is not a reality show!”
 
  
  
 From the looks of it, its far from over.
 
