BAREILLY : When   woke up in the early hours of Sunday, it was dark due to a powercut. He switched on his mobile phone torch light to get his bearings and got the shock of his life. His wife Komal’s body was hanging from a hook in the room.
 
  Police were summoned and they sent the body for a post-mortem. They are waiting for the post-mortem report to determine if the 30-year-old woman was murdered or she committed suicide. The incident happened in Nekpur under   police station.
  
  An aghast Amar Sonkar is yet to come to terms with the incident. Amar and   were married in May 2011. The couple has two children — Abhay, 7, and  , 5. According to neighbours, the relationship between the couple was amicable.
  
  Both police and relatives of the deceased are baffled by the incident. The couple and their kids were sleeping in the same room. Amar’s parents were sleeping in a room on the ground floor. 
  
  According to Amar, who is a driver by profession, his wife would often get angry over trivial matters. On Sunday, they had an argument over attending Komal’s brother’s wedding. The wedding is scheduled for April 19 at   village in Pilibhit district.
  
  “Komal wanted to reach her maternal home on April 15. I had told her that we would leave on April 16, since I had to collect money from a friend. I had never imagined that she would take such an extreme step over a petty matter,” Amar told TOI.
  
  He said, “We had dinner at around 8:30 pm on Saturday night and went to sleep. I was sleeping on the floor with my kids and she was on the bed. Around 10:30 pm, there was powercut. Supply was restored around 3 am.” The family went to asleep. Around 2:30 am, Amar’s son woke up as he was thirsty. He also woke his father up, said Amar.
  
  “Since there was no electricity in our home, I switched on my mobile phone search light. As soon as the light was on, I got a shock seeing my wife hanging from the ceiling hook,” he said. He added that with the help of his mother he took her body down and called the police.
  
  However, he could not explain how his wife managed to hang herself in the dark without waking up the rest of her family. There were no signs of forced entry from outside.
