PUDUCHERRY: High drama prevailed on Monday morning in the   legislative assembly as   MLAs V Saminathan, K G Shankar and S Selvaganapathy, whose nominations were upheld by the Madras high court last week, were denied entry into the house on Monday after   V   declined to ‘recognise’ them.

 The trio, who reached the assembly around 9am on Monday to participate in the  , were prevented by security personnel at the main gate. Their attempts to gain entry by producing the high court order upholding their nomination turned futile as security personnel said they were merely executing the direction of the speaker. The three entered into a verbal duel with the security personnel and warned them of dire consequences if they failed to honour the court’s order.
 
 The situation seemed to go out of control as a minor scuffle broke out between the MLAs and the security personnel. Braving the heat, the MLAs squatted on the floor in front of the gate and staged a protest. They carried a placard demanding that the Puducherry government honour the high court verdict. Within a few minutes, one of the MLAs Shankar swooned. He was taken to the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Postgraduate Research Institute.
 
 Later, the assembly, led by chief minister V Narayansamy, passed a resolution that said the Puducherry government will seek to implead itself in the petition filed by chief minister’s parliamentary secretary K Lakshminarayanan before the Supreme Court challenging the   upholding the nomination of three BJP loyalists as MLAs. 
 
 Lt governor   on learning that the MLAs were denied entry despite the high court order, directed the chief secretary Ashwani Kumar to submit a report and take appropriate follow-up action. Bedi has directed him to brief the Union home ministry about the development. Saminathan told reporters that the MLAs will file a contempt of court petition against Vaithilingam and others for defying the court’s order.
 
 The Madras high court on March 22 upheld their nomination after a prolonged confrontation between the lieutenant governor and the Congress government headed by V Narayansamy. But, Vaithilingam on Sunday said there would be no change in his earlier decision not to recognise their nomination. 
 
 Puducherry legislative assembly secretary A  , in a two-page letter addressed to the three MLAs, conveyed to them the decision of the speaker. Rayar’s letter “reproduced” Vaithilingam’s decision that he was “carefully scrutinising” the high court order with legal experts and would give his decision soon. “Until then, there will be no change in my earlier decision (dated November 12, 2017) in this matter,” said Vaithilingam.
 
  Vaithilingam said the MLAs’ nominations were made by “an incompetent authority and without jurisdiction and hence void.” Bedi administered the oath of office and secrecy to the three   at Raj Nivas in June last year.
 
 Eom
 
 
