CHENNAI: Directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DV&AC) officials have recovered Rs 5 lakh from the office of the Thirumangalam assistant commissioner of police after a surprise check. The DV&AC officials have questioned the officer, P K   Basha, about the source of the money. Further investigations are on.

 Based on specific information that the   had received money from a contractor for ‘settling’ a land dispute, the DV&AC team reached the officeon Friday nighttocheckon KamilBasha. Around 10.30pm, when thecontractor, identified as  , arrived, theofficers barged into the office.
 
 “We found Rs 2.50 lakh in cash on the table of Kamil Basha and askedhim aboutthe source, but the officer did not give a proper answer. We seized thecash and tookhim for questioning,” said an officer who was part of the raiding team. The officers also seized Rs 2.58 lakhfrom Selvam, a resident of Kodungaiyur, when they found that his answers to their queriescontradictedthose given by Kamil. “We searched the officefor other evidenceof corruption and left at 5am on Saturday,” said the officer.
 
 Kamil Basha, who claimed that the money found on his officetable had been given by Selvam for his personal financial assistance, was given time till 5pm on Saturday to provide proper proof of the cash. No arrest has been made in this case.
 
 The DV&AC officials will soon send a detailed note, including the ACP’s reply, to the city police commissionerate about the seizure of cash. “We will initiate departmental action against the officer after getting the note from the DV&AC,” a senior officer said.
 
 Kamil Basha, police sources said, had earlier landed in trouble when he was found to have delayed registering a case against a doctor from whose residence in Tiruvannamalai a 15-year-old girl from   had been rescued last year. A woman had taken the girl to Tiruvannamalai under the pretext of getting her a job at a medical shop before the girl was sexually exploited by many people. The case, handled by the Tirumangalam allwoman police, was monitored directly by KamilBasha.
 
