 would have liked a smooth journey for him and his boys but he still wouldn’t mind the aberration at the airport.
 
  Bibiano, coach of the India U-16 team, was leading the team to Serbia where they are scheduled to take part in a four-nation tournament that also involves Tajikistan and Jordan, and were stopped for a while at the airport. According to one account, the Russian carrier withheld their clearances for travel to Serbia, not convinced that the youngsters were travelling legally. It eventually took desperate phone calls from the All India   Federation (AIFF) to sort things out and allow the team to board at the last minute.
  
  The distraction en route to Serbia was unwelcome but Bibiano believes nothing will deter him, or his team, from the goal of making progress at the   in Malaysia later this year.
  
  “The first goal is to come out of the group. I believe we have a team good enough to do that, and exposure tours like this one will get us closer,” said Bibiano, as he put the players through their paces at the Trinity ground in Benaulim last week.
  
  India have been clubbed with Iran, Vietnam and Indonesia in group C. Two teams from the group will qualify for the quarterfinals, and should India make it to the semifinals – for the first time ever – they would have earned a ticket to the Fifa U-17 World Cup 2019 in Peru.
  
  “All the players have been given targets. For now, our endeavour is to do well in Serbia, and once we are up against teams like Tajikistan and Jordan, both of whom have also qualified for the (AFC) U-16 Championship, we will be in a better position to assess our strengths and weakness,” said Bibiano.
  
  Together for at least 18 months now, the youngsters know each other well. A few players stand out with their ability to dictate terms on the field, none more than Rohit Danu, who would have made it to the India squad for the Fifa U-17 World Cup 2017 if not for an unfortunate injury just a couple of days before the squad was announced.
  
  “I don’t think Danu is the only star here. I have players who are equally good,” said Bibiano.
  
  Between now and the championship in September, Bibiano is expected to have a much closer look at his boys. The core would remain unchanged but with 10 players shortlisted from scouting missions across the country, changes are inevitable.
  
  “Despite the core team being there with me, I am looking for options to strengthen the bench. It will give us options, if anyone has injury. I am taking three new players to Serbia and once we are back, the boys on trial will come and join us for me to see them more on a regular basis,” said the India coach.
  
  
 
  
  
  India vs Jordan, 7.30pm
  
  May 11: India vs Serbia, 10.30pm
  
  May 13: India vs Tajikistan, 7.30pm
