GHAZIABAD: Nearly 250 builders have furnished incomplete information on UP   website and that all development authorities have been instructed to issue notices to such erring builders, chairman, UP Rera, Mukul Singhal, said on Saturday.

 Singhal, also principal secretary, housing, was in   to conduct a physical survey of UP Gate-Rajnagar Extension elevated road ahead of its inauguration in January end.
 
 Singhal also met a group of buyers and builders from integrated township and discussed the builder-buyer issue. “I have been informed by   that out of nearly 24,000 houses, 4,902 units have been handed over to buyers while 12,035 units are in different stages of construction. By March this year, 90% of these houses will be delivered,” said Singhal.
 
 He also held a separate meeting with builders from the integrated township in   and assured them that infrastructural issues in the township will be sorted out shortly. He, however, expressed disappointment with builders for failing to part away with the remaining 17 acres of land for solid waste plant in  . “A little less than 17 acres of land is pending with six builders and if they do not part with the land, the GDA will confiscate their bank guarantee,” said Singhal.
 
 “The work on UP Gate-Rajnagar Extension elevated road is complete which will be inaugurated very soon. A request to decide on inauguration day has been sent to the chief minister’s office,” said Singhal. 
 
 On asked about the environmental clearance which the GDA has not received from the ministry of environment and that the matter is in NGT, Singhal expressed hope that the environmental clearance would come on time.
 
 On asked how the GDA intends to recover the cost of elevated road, being constructed at a cost of Rs 1,148 crore, Singhal hinted at introducing toll on elevated road. “Apart from raising money through sale of property in and around elevated road, revenue could also be raised through toll. However, a final decision in this regard is to be taken by the GDA and a formal proposal will be sent to the state government for vetting,” said Singhal.
 
 
