Indore: Only four to five percent of rich class people have participated in ongoing collection of citizen’s feedback for upcoming Swachha Survekshan 2018. While more than 60 percent of low income groups or poor localities gave their feedback in the survey so far. 

 It was found after an independent study conducted by a group of students associated with Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) under Clean India Campaign. 
 
 IMC officials said the result of this survey has gone against their expectations. “We were expecting the maximum participation from rich class, while the actual participation has been received by low income groups,” they pointed. 
 
 They said that they took opinions from citizens of various localities for survey. “Participation of people from posh localities like Saket, Vijay Nagar, Scheme 54, Mahalakshmi etc was poor, while localities with medium and low income group citizens such as Pancham Ke Fel, Dravid Nagar, Usha Nagar etc has comparatively maximum participation,” they said. 
 
 Official figures stated that Indore stands at third position in the citizens’ feedback survey with participation from 68000 people, while Vishakhapatnam and South Delhi are on the second and first position in the survey respectively. Mayor Malini Gaud said that they have urged the elite class citizens to give their feedback in the survey. “We are competing with metros and bigger cities of the country, and we are leaving no stones unturned in providing cleanliness related services. Maximum citizens’ participation would be helpful for us to retain the cleanest city title,” said Gaud. 
 
 More than 4041 cities are competing this year. The data to be collected for ranking of the cities will be split into three main areas –interactions with civic body, direct observation and citizens’ feedback. A team from centre is going to visit the city on February 19 to conduct physical survey of the city, and it will also speak to citizens particularly on cleanliness and waste management system as well. 
 
 
