Palanpur/Ahmedabad: Thousands of passengers had a tormenting time as they were stranded at various bus depots in the state, mostly north Gujarat, after Gujarat State Road Transport Corporation (GSRTC) suspended services fearing attacks on the buses by Karni Sena members. GSRTC officials said that 800 buses to various places in north Gujarat like Mehsana, Patan, Palanpur and Himatnagar were cancelled.  In Bhavnagar, cinema hall owners decided not to screen the movie. The decision was conveyed to the local Karni Sena unit in a meeting called by the superintendent of police Pravin Mall. The SP appealed to the Karni Sena to maintain peace and not take law in their hands. In Himmatnagar, several buses to Ahmedabad and Mehsana were cancelled while long queues of vehicles were witnessed on national highway 8 after Rajput community members burnt tyres on the road and stalled traffic. Movement on Ahmedabad-Udaipur highway was hit due to protests near Bhiloda. Also, a cinema hall in Himatnagar put up a notice declaring that Padmaavat will not be released. This followed representation by Kshatriya community members who were joined by the Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal activists. Stranded passengers were forced to take private vehicles to reach their destinations at many places in north Gujarat. Traffic on the Mundra-Mandvi highway in Kutch was stalled for nearly 10 hours following protests by the Rajput community. Tyres were burnt and roads were blocked in Jesar village near Bhavnagar, Bhavnagar-Mahua Road and Jamnagar-Junagadh Road on Sunday.  Community members also held a meeting in the city and constituted Padmaavat Sanghursh Samiti to chalk out more protest programmes. In Vadodara, the community members took out a rally to protest against the movie release. Rajput community leader Parakramsingh Jadeja, who had fought civic polls in 2015 on a BJP ticket, said that the multiplexes have supported their demand to not release the movie. He also added that his community doesn’t support any form of vandalism.