Nagpur: The Students’ Facilitation Centre (SFC) set up at Nagpur University’s exam section on Amravati Road has received over 7,000 complaints related to exam. And goof ups appear to be continuing. After the summer exam started in February, students and centres have been reporting several errors in hall tickets.  A day before their third-semester exam, several engineering students complained they were issued hall tickets with their father’s name as examinees while many others from different streams reported hall tickets without photographs or wrong entries on Tuesday. Exam section officials refused to admit their fault and blamed colleges and students for wrong entries. In winter exam, TOI had reported how students were issued hall tickets with mistakes like same photo on multiple tickets, wrong gender, photo missing, wrong names, and even photograph of girls on boys’ ID cards. The BE third semester students told TOI the marklists will be printed as per name on hall ticket. “There will be a mismatch in our SSC, HSC and BE certificates. The degree too may carry the wrong name,” they said. Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is handling exam section, didn’t respond to TOI calls. Director, Board of Examinations and Evaluation, Neeraj Khaty said the exam section never touched the forms until it received any correction request. “Ensuring correct entries is the responsibility of the student and the college. The data entered in the enrolment forms are utilized for generating hall tickets,” he said. Khaty said over 30,000 students were appearing in BE third-semester exam from Wednesday and it could be just one case. “This means only the one student got hall ticket with wrong entry. If it was a technical problem in our system, at least 300 students would have reported the same problem,” Khaty said. Countering Khaty, the students said, “We are well-versed with technology and know how to fill online forms.” Regarding 7,000 complaints related to results and marklists, Khaty said they were not limited to exams but there were other issues too. “Most complaints included cases of result withheld, issuance of degrees, and eligibility certificate received. Others where regarding correction in marklists, hall tickets, etc,” he said.