BENGALURU: With assembly elections looming, a   realized an anti-incumbency wave was sweeping through his constituency in south Bengaluru. To beat it, he decided to engage a political consultancy firm. After a series of independent surveys and research, the firm drew up a long list of programmes the MLA would need to organize over the next two months to win back voters. The MLA readily agreed to the proposals.

 From hiring high-profile public relations (PR) firms to revving up their image and spicing up the buzz online, professionally managed electoral campaigns are trickling down to the constituency level. Several former bureaucrats, journalists and public relations veterans are part of these professional teams.
 
 According to a PR consultant, there is virtually a war among 30 active PR agencies in Bengaluru that are vying for political space even as many sitting and aspiring   and BJP MLAs are looking to hire PR and image management experts to help with pre-election branding.
 
 “Not just parties, even candidates are now aware that it is not enough to do your work,” says Divya Prakash, who is part of the PR team associated with a Congress leader in west Bengaluru. “There is a need to showcase it and let voters know that they have worked hard and deserve to be elected or re-elected. Thus, the demand for public relations firms are on the rise.”
 
 Some aspiring candidates have also hired agencies to solely look into personal image-building techniques to boost their image and secure a party ticket or feature in the good books of a major political party. The services of these firms include voter profiling, analysis of the competition, drafting speeches, training campaign teams, innovative campaign techniques and educating voters, among other things.
 
 And the seniors too have joined the long list.   chief G Parameshwara has already engaged Arka Communications, a PR agency to highlight his achievements and help him make a statement. Congress leaders Dinesh Gundu Rao, Krishna Byre Gowda and   too have hired the same agency. The agency will soon launch ‘Nanna Karnataka’, a programme to promote their work.
 
 Film producer and owner of Lahari Music Company Velu, who is aspiring to contest on a BJP ticket, said he is in talks with two PR firms to hire them for his election campaign. Rajarajeshwarnagar MLA, Muniratna Naidu, has also reportedly hired a professional agency to promote himself. The trend though is not limited to Bengaluru alone but other urban centres as well.
 
 
  
 
