MUMBAI: Twenty-seven serving and retired   officers have lost an 18-year-old legal battle with the corporation for ownership of municipal flats in Worli. The   dismissed the petition for permanent accommodation by the officers, who had alleged “reverse discrimination”. 

 The petition claimed that when municipal staff quarters at Lovegrove Pumping station were taken up for redevelopment in the 1990s, over 120 Class IV staff were given flats on ownership basis in the new project, but senior officers were not. Now, the officers’ accommodation would continue as staff quarters, to be surrendered upon their retirement. 
 
 The sprawling plot was used to construct rehabilitation buildings as well as residential towers, a municipal office building and Atria mall. 
 
 “We find that the municipal corporation has by way of policy granted surplus tenements to Class IV employees on ownership basis in the rehab building by excluding superior staff workers. It is a settled position that the courts would be reluctant to interfere with the informed policy decision taken by the public authority particularly when it finds that the petitioners have not made out a case that the decision-making is in any way flawed,” said a division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Riyaz Chagla. 
 
 The bench referred to an earlier court order that held that civic employees did not have a right to claim permanent accommodation at quarters. 
 
 It said there was a shortage of staff quarters. “We find that the municipal corporation has taken an informed policy decision to treat the class IV employees in the same manner as conservancy employees, and grant them preferential treatment under its rules,” it said. 
 
 Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, counsel for the BMC, said the corporation decided to allot permanent accommodation to Class IV employees as they had lived on the premises for twothree generations. Senior staff had lived in their quarters for only a short period. 
 
 The staff quarters at Worli were built in the 1940s and comprised seven buildings. The 27 officers—junior engineers, sub-engineers, assistant engineers and deputy chief engineers—lived in four buildings while the Class IV staff lived in the remaining structures. 
 
 The compound went for redevelopment in the 1990s. According to the petitioners, they had, along with the other employees, granted consent for redevelopment after they were promised ownership of flats. But in 1998, they were informed otherwise. In 2000, they approached the HC. Of the 27 officers, 14 have superannuated, four have retired and surrendered their flats, while nine are still in service.
 
