AHMEDABAD/RAJKOT: It is all set to be a no-show for Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Padmaavat’ in Gujarat despite the   after terror-struck   (GMOA), Cinematograph

 Exhibitor's Association of Gujarat and Multiplex Association of India (MAI) declared that   will not be screened in the state. “Prevailing law and order situation and potential risk to property and life as a result of such screening' was cited as reason for the decision.”
 
 “The association has decided not to screen ‘Padmaavat' in 120 cinemas across Gujarat including 32 in Ahmedabad till a compromise is reached between Karni Sena and film producers," said Manubhai Patel, president of GMOA. The MAI represents 153 cinemas while CEAG represents singlescreen theaters. Almost all cinema halls had put up notice boards outside their premises informing audiences about the no-show.
 
 
 
 As violent protests against Padmaavat’s release burgeoned, Multiplex Association of India said its members would not screen the film in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Goa, apart from Gujarat. Protests were held in Mumbai, Pune, Nashik and several Madhya Pradesh towns. Mumbai police tightened security at the residences of the Sanjay Leela Bhasali and the lead actor Deepika Padukone. 
 
 
 
 The decision came a day after vandalism and arson unleashed in Ahmedabad by mobs allegedly affiliated with the Rajput community on Tuesday night. Over 200 vehicles were torched or damaged as rioters vandalized five multiplexes in Ahmedabad in posh Vastrapur and Satellite areas. Cops have arrested total 44 including 7 juveniles and 4 key conspirators and booked them for attempt to culpable homicide or attempt to murder.
 
 The Gujarat government, that had earlier appealed to people to boycott the movie to maintain peace, expressed gratitude to cinema owners for their decision. The state government, however, said that Gujarat will not support the All India bandh call on Thursday given by the Karni Sena.
 
 “Cinema owners have decided not to screen Padmavat so there is no issue of protest erupting against the movie,” said minister of state for home Pradipsinh Jadeja. Jadeja insisted that Gujarat will not support any bandh call. “All educational institutes, markets and buses will be operational on Thursday.”
 
 Gujarat DGP Pramod Kumar said security has been beefed up in the state. “Security has been beefed up in the state with 12 additional companies of central paramilitary forces been deployed in the state. Four RAF companies and thousands of local cops will ensure law and order is not disrupted in the state.”
 
 The Karni Sena in Gujarat, however, remained divided over the bandh call. While Raj Shekhwat, Gujarat president of Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena, said that bandh call has been withdrawn as Padmaavat will not be screened in state, state in-charge of Karni Sena Arjunsinh Gohil said, “Bandh call stays as it is an issue of honour of women of our community.”
 
 Meanwhile, even as two companies of the Rapid Action Force conducted a flagmarch in violence-hit areas in Ahmedabad to instil a sense of confidence among locals, violence continued unabated in many parts of the state. On Wednesday, at least three GSRTC buses were vandalized in Saurashtra and north Gujarat while mobs jammed the Ahmedabad-Vadodara expressway and Bhavnagar-Una highway.
 
 GSRTC has directed buses not to make a night halt at any village and park at the nearest police station. Fearing attacks, private bus operators in Bhavnagar decided to suspend services for a day on Thursday. Rajendrasinh Gohil, president, Bhavnagar District Tours and Travels Association said “Not a single bus will run on Thursday between 6am and 9pm. Rajputs have requested us to suspend the service to protect our buses from damage.”
 
 The Rajkot Market Yard will also remain shut on Thursday, with traders and commission agents fearing damage. Rajkot Market Yard is the biggest agriculture trading centre in Saurashtra with an average daily turnover of Rs 600 crore.
 
 
