CHANDIGARH: If   in   are caught napping at work even after they get a break to eat meals for an hour during the night shift of 12 hours, their salaries will be deducted. Also, a log book will be maintained monthly and the senior nurse in-charge will be held liable for not following the recently issued orders. The orders were issued after there were complaints that nurses during night shift often locked rooms and slept during duty hours. There are 2,600 nurses on rolls in the institute.

 The office orders, a copy of which is with TOI, mentioned: “There should not be wastage of duty hours in the form of sleeping and no loss of patient care services should take place during the night shift. Sleeping during working hours is not allowed as there is no provision of payment of salary for sleeping during working hours.”
 
 The working shift duty for nurses followed by PGI is 6 hours in morning, 6 hours in evening and 12 hours at night. Prior to this, the shift hour was 7 hours in morning, 7 in evening and 10 at night. “The nursing association had been protesting and wanted to work for 12 hours at night instead of 10. However, many had been sleeping and patients suffered. Therefore, an undertaking has been taken that they will be allowed 12 hours of night shift provided they remain alert and don’t sleep,” said a senior doctor in the administration.
 
 “One must stay alert during work hours and should not sleep. We have rescheduled the shift hours keeping the safety of nurses. Most of them come from distant places and those who work for 12 hours can return back in morning for home,” said Prof Jagat Ram, director, PGI.
 
 Sources said the starting salary of nurses is Rs 50,000 a month and total work days is 220 days. Annually, each nurse costs 12 lakh per annum to the institute if cost to company is considered.
 
 Shinderpal Kaur, president,  , said, “This is in accordance with the Factories Act 1948 that allows workers rest for half an hour for five hours work.” However, with this order, there has been a divide amongst the nurses as some favour it, while others don’t.
 
 
