JAIPUR : Hingonia gaushala, the state government-owned   shelter in Jaipur, is inching closer to launching its packaged milk brand, Akshay Amrut. 

 The   that is managing Hingonia gaushala on Monday inaugurated cow milking machines to milch 600 cows. It will soon purchase a packaging machine and milk chiller plant after spending nearly Rs 50 lakh. 
 
 Nearly 2,800 litres of milk is collected daily from cows at the shelter. People can purchase desi cow milk for Rs 80 per litre and normal milk at Rs 50 per litre. 
 
 Radha Priya Das, in-charge of Hingonia gaushala, said, “We are developing a mechanised dairy system for packaging and chilling up to 5,000 litres per day. A new machine has also been purchased to milch the cows in a batch of 12. From mid-April, we would launch our packaged milk like Saras.”
 
 At present, the gaushala earns a revenue of Rs 28 lakh per month by selling milk and other cow products. The foundation hopes to double its revenue by selling packaged milk.
 
  had partnered with the foundation nearly a year ago after large number of cattle deaths were reported at the gaushala.
 
 According to figures of gaushala administration, cattle deaths have reduced significantly in past one year, thus, they have to accommodate more than 22,000 abandoned bovines, almost double its capacity, in 800-bigha area.
 
 On the contrary, the administration is planning to increase milk production from the existing strength.
 
 “We have identified many healthy small cows which can be milked in future. The diet of these cattle has been improved and gaushala is expecting to increase its milk production upto 5,000 litres by the end of this year,” added Das 
 
 The foundation requires approximately Rs 2.3 crore every month to feed these cattle. However, in absence of timely payment by JMC, gaushala administration often struggles to improve the feed of cattle.
 
 A source at gaushala added, “In absence of funds, the gaushala administration is not able to provide sufficient green fodder to cows. Moreover, the plant for milk packaging has been set up after receiving donation from residents. JMC has not provided apt financial assistance even after signing long-term contract.”
 
 
