HYDERABAD: The indefinite strike called by the   (JAC) of the South Indian Film Industry, against charges levelled by the digital service providers (DSPs), came as a dampener for city’s cine-goers, looking forward to catching up on latest releases during the long Holi weekend. Though by late Friday evening, some multiplexes started taking bookings for English, Hindi and other regional films, screening of   continued to remain restricted.

  
  
 
 “Following requests from some multiplex owners, we decided to roll back the ban on non-Telugu films only for Saturday (March 3),” said   chairman of the JAC, refraining from commenting on whether screening of these films will be allowed during the subsequent days as well. “We cannot say anything right now as the final decision regarding our demands is still awaited.
 
 A meeting is scheduled on Saturday at the   following which we may have a clear picture,” he added.
 
 Earlier on Friday, all theatres and multiplexes across Hyderabad — and other parts of the state — displayed ‘closed’ boards, forcing audiences to look elsewhere for their dose of recreation. Unaware of the strike call, the shutdown took many by surprise as they tried to book seats through online portals. “Since my friends are in town, we thought of watching a film together on Friday. But when I opened Bookmyshow, a message popped up stating that Telangana and Andhra Pradesh film industries are on an indefinite strike,” said  , a content writer.
 
 The frustration among people was palpable across social media platforms as people swamped the Twitter handles of Bookmyshow, Inox among other ticketing/ theatre platforms expressing their frustration. “None of the movies in Hyderabad available for advanced booking through any of the portals, either @bookmyshow or @Paytm or @_PVRCinemas. Sabne Holi ki long weekend ki chutti le li kya? (Has everybody gone on a long holiday for Holi?),” posted Saket Ranjan.
 
 Given the flood of queries, Inox movies took to Twitter to clear the air. “Hi, there is a strike in AP and Telangana. We would update online once we open. As of today (Friday), we are shut,” its official handle read.
 
 But the angst among movie-buffs failed to perturb members of the JAC (for South Indian Film Industry) who insisted that the strike would continue till their demands are met. “There are some key demands such as waiver in virtual print fee (VPF) and charges to screen film trailers, reduction in number of advertisements which we want the DSPs to fulfil. Since we have moved from an analog system to digital screening, it’s time that the DSPs stop levying these charges,” said Babu.
 
 Although there are no big releases scheduled during the weekend, theatre owners claim that they will incur huge losses because of the strike. “For one week, we will lose an estimated ?1.89 lakh. However, we will continue to extend our support to the JAC as the losses will be recovered if their demands are met,” said manager of a single screen theatre.
 
