NEW DELHI:   of many   in the   were a harried lot on Tuesday. The south corporation, as part of the sealing drive ordered by the SC-appointed monitoring committee, shut down the treasuries, strong rooms and   of many public and private banks being run from some of the 38 properties   on Tuesday.

 Shikha Garg, a housewife who has locker in State Bank of India, said that she wasn’t allowed access. “We have to attend a relative’s marriage and all our valuables are in the locker. What is our fault? We have a locker in a legitimate bank?” she said. “This is for the first time that we’ve heard that banks can also be sealed,” said her visibly upset husband, Pramod Garg.
 
 The couple was not the only one facing such a problem. The deputy manager of the SBI branch, PK Mandal, had been dealing with upset customers since morning. “The corporation hasn’t told us when the lockers will be opened. It’s fortunate that we don’t store essential documents in the basement that has been sealed,” he added.
 
 The Bank of Baroda branch, however, faced a complete shutdown in services as their treasury, lockers and vaults were on the floor that was sealed. “We can’t store cash, cross-verify documents, access fixed deposit files, vouchers or even disburse cash. All the banks in the market are planning to approach the deputy commissioner for a solution. People should not suffer,” said Manoj Kumar, the BOB branch manager.
 
 “The branch has been operating from this location since 1993 and caters to over 1,000 people daily. No objection had been raised about the illegality of the building earlier,” Kumar added.
 
 Neelam, a customer of UCO Bank, said that critical services should be either left alone or given prior notice of sealing. “There is no logic behind such action,” she added. The bank later hung a notice saying the management was trying to get the premises de-sealed. The strong room of the branch, which caters to 10,000 accounts, had been sealed on Monday.
 
 UCO senior manager Atul Khanna said that six other banks have been sealed. “Our branch is 44 years old. I met the monitoring committee members and they asked us to meet the deputy commissioner. Why didn’t anyone raise the issue in the past?” he asked.
 
 While operations of a few private banks were also affected, they declined to comment on the issue.
 
 
