The wait for  , the son of the legendary singer Bob Marley, seemed unending on Saturday afternoon but finally, when he landed in God’s Own Country, it felt like the patience was rewarded. Ky-Mani seemed to exude the free-spirited vibe the Marleys are known for, and with his dreadlocks and calm demeanour, instantly brought alive umpteen images of the revolutionary that   was, and the cultural background he came from.

 This is his first ever visit to India, but it is one place he had always wanted to visit, he says. “I often tell this to my brother Rohan, who has been here a few times and has told me great stories about the country. As I have watched a lot of documentaries about India, I had a fair idea while coming here.”
 
 Ky-Mani goes effusive when he talks about what he likes the most here. “I really enjoy the warmth of the people and the culture here. I have never experienced this kind of a reception. As soon as I landed, I felt, ‘Wow, this is so tropical, it reminds me of home in Jamaica’.”
 
 His album Like Father Like Son and the song titled Dear Dad speaks volumes about how his life is deeply interwoven with his dad’s, and how Bob Marley’s all-encompassing persona has left a lasting impression on him.
 
 The Jamaican singer recollects the fondest memory of his dad, his only one, which, he says, seems as vivid as when he was a toddler. “My father passed away when I was five years of age. My brother, father and I had climbed the hills of Nine Mile, Jamaica. We went into a bush to try our hand at a slingshot, which dad had just brought from America. While on the way back, I realised that I had somehow lost it, and my brother was saying, ‘Daddy is going to beat you’. I remember hiding in the bushes and a little shack on the hill. Later I walked up to him later and told him that I had lost it, but he just laughed. At that moment, I knew I wasn’t going to get punished, following which I went back to playing.”
 
 At Saturday’s event, titled Mojo Rising, Ky-Mani’s renditions of Bob Marley’s classics such as We can Make it Work, Concrete Jungle, No Woman No Cry and Is This love, among others provided full justice to spirited singer his dad was. The die-hard fans among the audience were literally transposed to the free world that the Reggae singer spoke of when he lived; while a few hummed the lines diligently, others joined their friends and fellow Bob Marleyians and swayed with the wind and the music.
 
 When asked about which one of Bob Marley’s songs are Ky-Mani’s all-time favourites, he says, “I can’t pick one or two; the trove of his soulful music had no horizons. I don’t have favourites because my father’s music moves me in different ways at different times. A favourite depends on the mood that I am in. If I am in a hurry and rushing to get a ticket, my pick would be ‘I Shot the Sheriff’. If I am feeling odd and I want someone to come home, it would be ‘I don’t Want to Wait in Vain.”
 
 The 41-year-old recalls how music was not something he had an inclination for during his early days. “My first love is football, and music became a part of my life only later. I was at a friend’s house and was just dabbling with the sound systems and the mic there, when a producer, who had worked with my father, walked in. He said I have a nice tone and suggested I go to his studio. The next few days I sat with him for a few hours to see where that was going to lead me. I would say music just crept in and took over my life.”
 
 When one of the first songs he wrote as a kid, ‘Dear Dad’ was released, its massive response from people reinforced in him the belief that music has immense power. He adds, “From that moment on, I channelled my energy towards music. People listen to music more than speech! Being Bob Marley’s son leaves me with a great responsibility to carry forward his legacy, which I’m doing to the best of my ability.”
 
 While reggae has always been his forte, as he moved to America, he got opportunities to explore rock and roll and hip-hop as well. “Being a lover of music, I felt it is important to fuse everything which inspires and moves me.”
 
 And the message in his dad’s songs and his remain the same, he says - ‘One Love, One Heart, One Destiny’. Music, he feels, brings equality. “It transcends boundaries. People need not necessarily have to understand the lyrics, as it is more about what you feel within. I have been to places where people are in love with my dad’s music despite not knowing anything about it.” Just like his dad, Ky-Mani has never forgotten his humble beginnings, which is precisely what keeps him grounded, he says. Even now, he wouldn’t mind sharing a roof with his cousins, relatives and family.
 
 “It is the innate values and goodness in humans that matter, which can be expressed powerfully through music. I am reminded of my father’s words - ‘A good friend is more than the money in the pocket,’” he signs off.
 
 
