The German rider   ( ) won the second stage of the 53rd edition of the Race of the Two Seas, 172km from Camaiore to Follonica.   (  Team) is the new Maglia Azzurra of General Classification leader.

 
 
 
 
 1 - Marcel Kittel (Team Katusha Alpecin) 172km in 4h12’24”, average speed 40.887kph
 
 2 - Peter Sagan (Bora - Hansgrohe) s.t.
 
 3 - Giacomo Nizzolo (Trek - Segafredo) s.t.
 
 
 
 
 1 - Patrick Bevin (BMC Racing Team)
 
 2 - Damiano Caruso (BMC Racing Team) s.t.
 
 3 - Greg Van Avermaet (BMC Racing Team) s.t.
 
 
 
 
 Maglia Azzurra (blue), general classification leader, sponsored by Gazprom - Patrick Bevin (BMC Racing Team)
 
 Maglia Bianca (white), young rider general classification leader, sponsored by FIAT - Fernando Gaviria (Quick-Step Floors)
 
 Maglia Arancione (orange), sprinter classification leader, sponsored by Sportful - Marcel Kittel (Team Katusha Alpecin)
 
 Maglia Verde (green), King of the Mountains classification leader, sponsored by Snello Rovagnati - Nicola Bagioli (Nippo - Vini Fantini - Europa Ovini)
 
 
 Speaking seconds after the stage finish, the stage winner, Marcel Kittel, said: “I've been waiting such a long time for this victory! Since the beginning of the season, not everything was working good but we worked hard with the team and it finally pays off today. I have to thank everyone for the good job. This is a big boost for the whole group. I'm also very happy because this is my first professional victory in Italy. At the Giro, I won stages in other countries.”
 
 
 The new Maglia Azzurra, Patrick Bevin, said: “It was not planned that I'd take over from Damiano Caruso. It's a weird feeling but my team-mates were keen on leading me out. I got a pretty good run when the bunch was spread out. I've had moments in the past where I was a good sprinter but I became a lead-out man. Today was the first time in my career that I got my opportunity in a bunch sprint. It's weird but it's also great to lead such a big race.”
 
 
  Kittel said in the press conference: “My last victory at the Tour de France in Pau was eight months, that’s a long time. It feels good to win again. This season, things weren’t going perfect straight away. We had to deal with defeat, which was part of building the team. Today’s victory brings a lot of confidence to the guys who work for me. We really believed we’d do it. Coming to  , I knew I was in a good shape, we kept motivating each other for today’s stage. The boys brought me in great position, so I could choose where to start my sprint. I felt very hungry and it’s wonderful to have won.”
 
 
 Race leader Patrick Bevin said in the press conference: “Fifth in the stage is a great result on its own. To lead the race is a product of good teamwork and a good job done yesterday. Today, I was caught behind the crash. We got back on with 3km to go but it spread out the bunch. It changes a sprint when you have a crash like that. It’s a real privilege for me to lead such a big race. It wasn’t planned within the team this morning but some team-mates of mine came up to me and said let’s have a crack at the sprint. I’m new to this team but it shows the camaraderie. It’s weird to take the jersey from a team-mate but I guess it’s part of bike racing. It changes nothing for tomorrow, though. I’ll do my work for the team the same way I usually do it.”
 
 Fernando Gaviria, young rider general classification leader, said: “I missed out on the victory because of the crash but I’m very happy with the legs I have and the team work. This is  . It’s impossible to win all the time but I’m ready to help my team in the coming stages and try to win the next sprint finish.”
 
 
 
 
 First victory for Marcel Kittel in Italy and thus at Tirreno-Adriatico. 17th win for German riders at Tirreno-Adriatico. The last one was by Tony Martin in 2013 (ITT in San Benedetto del Tronto). Time trials excluded, the last German victory was by Linus Gerdemann in 2010 at Rosignano Solvay.
 
 
 For the seventh year running, Peter Sagan made the top 3 of at least one stage at Tirreno-Adriatico. It’s the 16th one, including seven stage victories.
 
 Patrick Bevin is the first New Zealander to lead Tirreno-Adriatico.
 
 
