NEW DELHI: The forthcoming Modi-Xi summit in Wuhan is not a “reset”. India and China are not rebooting their relations.

 
 The two are meeting at the summit level to discuss global developments and find a way for India and China to grow and develop as powers without getting into each other’s way. “In a rapidly changing world, both are trying to understand each other’s aspirations and concerns,” sources said.
 
 China’s foreign minister   said, “The leaders will conduct strategic communication on the great changes of the current world that have never been seen in the past hundred years, and exchange in-depth views on the overall, long-term and strategic issues regarding future development of bilateral relations.”
 
 India is clear that this summit is not like the   summit of 1988. That was a time when India and China actually reopened relations after a two-decade deep freeze and a face-off in Sumdurong Chu that could have become very ugly. India and China decided not to allow the border dispute to hold the rest of the relationship back. That was a real “reset”, said sources.
 
 The Modi-Xi summit will also be more unstructured than the Rajiv-Deng one which was protocol-heavy, every moment mapped out with care.
 
 One of the more important achievements of the Indian diplomatic system in recent years has been to move the India relationship from the Chinese premier’s desk to the President’s desk. 
 
 That was, according to officials who handled that visit, the biggest achievement of Xi Jinping’s first visit to India in September 2014, which was unfortunately overtaken by the border incursion at Chumar.
 
 Interestingly, the Modi-Xi meeting coincides with two other key summits globally.
 
 The two Koreas will engage in a rare summit, while German Chancellor   will meet   in another important one. Modi had his own European summit recently — first with Macron’s India visit, followed by Modi’s meeting with UK PM  , and Merkel.
 
 Merkel called Modi to invite him over for a chat enroute from London last week, an unusual gesture, one the government believes is part of the global flux where traditional notions of global power are being breached as everyone is engaging with everyone else.
 
