The Government Higher Secondary School at   in Coimbatore district was like any other state-run school in the rural hinterland until A   took over as headmaster two years ago. Elamurugan believed that a pleasant ambience will help students learn better and set about creating a park around the school. The students of this school have identity cards like their private school counterparts, thanks to Elamurugan who spent from his pocket and collected money from alumni to provide this. For two years he has been providing snacks and tiffin, with the help of sponsors, to students who are preparing for   and Plus Two examinations.

 The school, started in 1962, now has 903 students from classes VI to XII. "Twenty-five years ago, I was working in a private school which had a lot of facilities for students. I cleared the teachers’ recruitment board exam and taught physics to Plus One and Plus Two students. After I became the headmaster of the school, I decided to do something for the students with the help of fellow teachers," said Elamurugan.
 
 "We issued identity cards for all students and teachers. We selected a group of students and made them members of the students’ protection committee. The group had to ensure that all students kept their nails and hair neatly trimmed. The names of those who do not maintain this are sent to the physical education teacher. If the students do not maintain discipline, their parents will be approached," said Elamurugan.
 
 The school also started a career guidance centre where students were prepared for competitive exams. "The students live in villages and do not have much awareness about competitive exams. To promote savings and to create awareness about banking services, we opened bank accounts for 450 students and requested them to save money," he said.
 
 The school also has a counselling centre for students to beat stress. "The parents of the many students are daily wage labourers and sometimes their family problems affect the children. So we give free counselling to the students and invite their parents to talk about their problems. In one case, a couple reunited for the sake of their son’s future," said Elamurugan.
 
 He said a herbal garden on the school premises was maintained by a team of students. Another garden too is maintained by a team of students. Tomatos, chillies, and spinach are cultivated on the premises and these are used for the noon meal scheme.
 
 "We have two smart class rooms for students of Classes VI to XII. Our campus has an incinerator to burn sanitary napkins. We have a sanitary committee for girl students, with a few women teachers as committee leaders. Girl students can go to the committee with their problems at any time and get them addressed," said Elamurugan.
 
 The school also has a committee to save trees and another committee for water management. "Our teachers conduct special classes for Class X and Plus Two students. Our endeavour is to provide education on a par with private schools," he says.
 
 
