NAGPUR: “The situation farmers of the state are finding themselves in is troublesome for which efforts are being made to call their sons living in cities for their help,” said Amar Habib, leader of   Andolan, on Friday.

 The second state-level camp of Kisanputra Andolan, to be conducted by Janmanch on MLA Hostel premises on Saturday and Sunday, will be inaugurated at 10am by Sharad Nimbalkar, former vice-chancellor of Panjabrao Deshmukh Krushi Vidyapeeth.
 
 Addressing a press conference, Habib said, “The camp will chiefly make them understand anti-farmer policies adopted by the government which are behind various problems. There is no particular party to blame for these problems as the   formed laws and the   is implementing them.” 
 
 “The laws on land ceiling, Essential Commodities Act and Land Acquisition Act have turned out to be a choker for the farming community which should be discarded. Participants of the camp will be briefed about these laws,” he said.
 
 Habib said that if all the farmers are provided with monthly financial assistance, suicides cases will drastically reduce within three months as they will find a will to live. He criticized the government for not taking firm decisions and said bold steps should be taken for progress.
 
 During the programme, sessions on topics such as ‘Farmer suicides: Reasons and solutions’, ‘Anti-farmer constitutional amendments’, ‘Maximum land assumption law’, ‘Farmer and mediums’, ‘Kisanputra Andolan: Role and direction’, ‘Land Acquisition Act and anti-farmer laws’ and ‘Essential Commodities Act’ will be conducted by  , advocate   from Pusad, Habib, senior journalist Shripad Aparajit, Pramod Chunchuwar from Mumbai, advocate Mahesh Bhonsale from Aurangabad and advocate Anil Kilor. Sons of farmers from around the state will be present.
 
 After the inaugural function, Habib’s question-answer book titled ‘Why anti-farmer laws should be abolished?’ will be released by Sharad Patil, president of Janmanch. Advocate Moreshwar Temurde, former deputy speaker of the  , will be the guest of honour at the concluding ceremony.
 
 The third camp will be organized on March 3 and 4 in Pune.
 
 
