HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister   on Wednesday said   leaders embarking on a bus yatra reminded him of "Ali Baba and chalis chor.' "To me, Jana Reddy is Ali Baba, and all those Congress MLAs sitting in the bus are thieves," he said at a public meeting he addressed in  . 

 "Look at the number of police cases against them. They have embarked on a yatra which has no popular support at all. They have deceived the people enough during their rule. They should know that they are not acceptable to the public any more," he said. 
 
 KTR said under the newly-inaugurated water treatment plant under Mission Bhagiratha at Chilpakuntla in Nutankal mandal, the district would get clean and clear drinking water that is much-needed in Nalgonda. He said this would be the beginning of the end of the fluorosis problem which has crippled many. 
 
 "This problem has been there for decades, but the previous Congress government did nothing for the people. It is the TRS government which is genuinely concerned about the health of the people," KTR said. He said that every household will get pure drinking water in Thungathuthy. Water for irrigation of one lakh would be provided in Thungathurthy constituency, the minister said.
 
 KTR questioned why Congress MLA K Jana Reddy, who was minister for 15 years, could do nothing to solve the problem. "The Congress should be ashamed of the indifference they have shown to public issues. They were always bothered about making themselves rich through commissions they took," he said. 
 
 Pointing out that there are 800 lakes in the constituency, he said 400 under Mission Kakatiya have already been rejuvenated and the rest also would be completed.
 
 Describing Congress leaders as "chillara dongagu (petty thieves)", he said under the TRS rule there was no scope for corruption whatsoever. "Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is providing a clean government," he said. The minister assured the public that a food processing industry would also be set up in Thungathurthy so that youth would also get employment.
 
 
