 
  As a socially-responsible corporate house, Phoenix Marketcity has always been delighted to partner with Smile Foundation, an NGO that works to help improve the state of education, healthcare and women’s rights, across the country. Several unique events have been hosted previously at the shopping hub, in association with the organization.
  ‘Ramp for Champs’, a cause-based celebrity fashion show, is one such initiative by the foundation. It is designed to spread awareness about the importance of education for underprivileged children. Held on January 13 at the mall, it was choreographed by Bengaluru’s very own fashion guru, Prasad Bidapa.
  The show featured models, Bollywood actress  , noted personalities from various walks of life and some children.   — Centre Director at the mall — said, “Phoenix Marketcity is a socially responsible corporate, we have always believed in the concept of giving back to society. And in association with the foundation, we have organized some wonderful events for the betterment of underprivileged children and the society at large.”
  The mall also hosted ‘Cook for a Smile’, another initiative by the foundation, as part of its ‘Nutrition for Education’ campaign, with a mission to bring about a positive change in the lives of children from marginalized backgrounds. On September 2, the sixth edition of the event took place at the mall, where eight boardroom leaders shed their suits and donned aprons, to battle it out over a cook-off with the help of talented young children from the foundation. Celebrity chef   hosted the event and remarked on the efforts made by the foundation and the shopping hub towards providing nutritious and healthy food to children in need.
  Sanjeev Dham — COO at Smile Foundation, says, “It has been a privilege to have the corporate house as the presenting partner for two of our flagship initiatives — ‘Ramp for Champs’ and ‘Cook for a Smile’. Their commitment and support towards the nutrition and education of children across India has helped us take the cause to a wider audience, making our movement of change stronger every day. We appreciate the heartwarming contribution and hope to spread many more smiles together with them in the years to come.”
  
  
