NAGPUR: Youth activist  , who shot to fame and public life leading mammoth rallies of Patel community in  , says he is not a member of any political party. Patel, however, said he is against the   and   government for “making false promises that they never bothered to fulfil”.

 “Just before landing in Nagpur airport I was looking at the sparse landscape and drought-like scenario from up there. Then it struck to me that the lives of about 90 passengers in the flight depended on the pilot. Indeed, he landed us safely. But the country seems to be hurtling down to peril as the person guiding the destiny of 125 crore Indians is not that reliable. The country is not in safe hands,” the youth leader warned, talking informally to reporters outside  , on Friday.
 
 The Patidar leader paid tributes to Babasaheb Ambedkar, who embraced Buddhism along with thousands of followers in 1956, at the memorial. 
 
 Later, Patel left by road to Akola to address a public rally of farmers and unemployed youth. “This is my first visit to Vidarbha. About Nagpur I had only heard. Here I see that there is more than Sanghabhoomi for drawing inspiration, “ Patek said referring to the Ambedkar memorial.
 
 Asked about his struggle for reservation benefits to Patels, he wryly replied: “It was just an occasion to spread awareness. I realize that such agitations cannot bring solutions. Anyway that issue is Gujarat-specific. Here I have come to see the condition of farmers and jobless youth who trusted   and are now paying heavy price for it.”
 
 Asked if he was keen on entering electoral politics, Patel said he was a proud Gujarati who would never seek mass sympathy to gain power by wearing on sleeves poverty and birth status (read like Modi). 
 
 “I will continue to raise my voice in a democratic way against injustice and falsehood. This is the power I draw from teachings of Ambedkar and I am not afraid of anyone on the right side,” he said.
 
 “I have come here to find answers to questions before the youth and farmers. Where are the promised two crore jobs? Are farmers getting anywhere to near doubling there incomes, are they getting crop loans at 4% or the benefits of crop insurance?” he said. 
 
 “During 2104 general election campaign, we are told that some 30,000 billionaires were looting the country. Now, we are told that 23,000 of them have escaped from the country,” he said.
 
 
