Diganta.Guha@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: Kings XI Punjab mentor   is gung-ho about his team’s chances in this season’s Indian Premier League (IPL). And, the reason is the impressive Indian talent that the franchisee owners put together during the auction. 
 
 Yuvraj Singh, KL Rahul, Karun Nair, Manoj Tiwary and Mayank Agarwal form the core of the side’s batting line-up, while Axar Patel, Barinder Sran, Ankir Rajpoot and Mohit Sharma will shoulder the majority of the bowling responsibility.
 
 “I can assure you we have the best side in the last ten years. There are so many quality Indian players in the team. They having been in and around the Indian team more often than not,” Sehwag said at a pre-season KXIP press conference. “And to complement the Indian players, we also have some match-winning overseas players.” 
 
 The veteran of 104 Tests, 251 ODIs and 19 T20 Internationals is confident that this time Kings XI will lift the IPL trophy. “We have the perfect mix (of foreigners and Indians). And, under head coach Brad Hodge, who is the second most experienced T20 player in the world after Gayle, we will go the distance. The aim, as of now, is to win at least 8 matches to make it to the playoffs,” Sehwag underlined.
 
 Sehwag stressed that part-time bowling options in the form of Chris Gayle, Yuvraj and Tiwary would be beneficial for the team. “Extra bowling options will help skipper Ashwin. We have the likes of Gayle, Yuvraj and Manoj, who can chip in with the ball when the need arises. In T20, if a regular bowler turns out to be expensive, you need somebody who can come to the captain’s rescue; and, we have that option,” said Sehwag, who himself got India several crucial breakthroughs during his playing days with his part-time off-spin. 
 
 “I have always been against the five-bowler theory in T20 format; and, that is because the captain is rendered helpless if one of the bowlers fail,” he added.
 
 Having hung up his boots, Sehwag has seamlessly slipped into the role of a mentor for Kings XI Punjab. He has infectious confidence that can rub on the players. “We reached the IPL finals in 2014, but could not win the title. But this year, we will win,” he stated with conviction. 
 
 The Nawab of Najafgarh is leaving no stone unturned to get the best out of his players. His method is simple. “Treat everyone the same irrespective of his seniority. I can assure you we know our jobs and we have our plans in place. Our aim is to create a healthy atmosphere in the dressing room, where everybody feels comfortable, so that the players can go out and perform to the best of their abilities.”
 
 His equation with newly-appointed Kings XI skipper Ravichandran Ashwin will play a huge role in shaping the team’s fortunes. Sehwag gave a sneak-peek into his thoughts about the Tamil Nadu off-spinner. “He (Ashwin) has the right mindset and was the right choice for the captain’s role. I am a big fan of a bowler being the captain. Ashwin is very smart and has experience. He is a good tactician too,” Sehwag said.
 
 The former India opener believes that a team can be built only if seniors and juniors gel well together. “It (team building) is all about knowing how to deal with the seniors as well as the juniors. Mayank Dagar is the junior most in our team and Gayle is the senior most. A coach or a mentor’s role becomes important and that person needs to make sure that both (seniors and juniors) gel well together,” stated Sehwag.
 
 This season Kings XI will adopt the horses for courses policy, while selecting the playing XI. ‘It (the playing XI) depends on the conditions and the opposition. We will keep a flexible approach,” he said. “The overseas players will be selected on the basis of form and how one fits into a particular combination.”
 
 In the end, Sehwag turned the spotlight on young Afghanistan mystery spinner Mujeeb Zadran. “I have high hopes on him. He reminds me of other mystery spinners like Ajantha Mendis and Sunil Narine. There is no doubt that he is an exciting bowler. I am sure his stint with Kings XI will be a massive a learning curve for him. We need to communicate with him well so that we can guide him in achieving his goals,” concluded Sehwag.
 
 
