India is one of the very few countries in the world that celebrate harvest festivals also with equal enthusiasm and zest like any other festival. One such festival is 
 , primarily celebrated in north India!

 Though social media does allow you to send out bulk wishes at a go, personalised messages have their own charm. Take out time to send individual messages to your near and dear ones and let them know that they are remembered amidst the festivities!
 
 
  is one of the most popular Hindu festivals, and also the first festival of the New Year. The festival is known with different names in different parts of the country. It is celebrated as Pongal in Tamil Nadu, Lohri in Punjab, Uttarayan in Gujrat, Bhogali Bihu in Assam and Poush Sangkranti in West Bengal. The festival marks the first day when the sun enters into the zodiac sign of Capricorn (known as ‘Makar rashi’ in Hindi), and the start of longer days. The word ‘
  signifies the transit of sun from one zodiac sign into another. 
 
 Each region has its distinct rituals and unique festivities but the common thread across the country is a spread of delicious food that pays homage to the season and its bounty. With prayers on their lips, ever year thousands of devotees jostle to take a dip in the holy water at Ganga Sagar, also known as ‘Sagardwip’.
 
 It is celebrated in different ways in different parts of the country with great zeal and vigour. The festival marks the beginning of the holy phase when the sacred rituals can be performed. The festival is also about letting go what all happened in the previous year, and embracing the new phase with positivity and wisdom. 
 
 Unlike other Hindu festivals, Makar Sankranti is celebrated on a fixed date every year, i.e. January 14th. As the festival is round the corner, here are some messages, images and quotes you can use to wish your near and dear ones…
 
 
 
 This time, make sure you send warm wishes to your family and friends on the occasion. Here some wishes and messages you can share with your near and dear ones: 
 
 May this harvest season bring you prosperity & positivity,
 And you fly high like a kite.
 Wishing you and your family a Happy Makar Sankranti!
 
 On this auspicious festival, the sun starts its northward journey. Thus, it begins the journey towards greater heights and success! I wish you and your family a very happy Makar Sakranti.
 
 
 
 
 Remember: Our thoughts hold the power to build, bend or break our circumstances. Wishing you a positive and prosperous Makar Sankranti
 Til hum hai, aur gur hain aap,
 Mithai hum hai aur mithas hain aap.
 Saal k is pehle tyohar se ho rahi shuruaat,
 Aapko hamari taraf se…
 Makar Sankranti ki mubarakbaad!
 May this festival of zeal and vigour fill your life with lots of energy and enthusiasm.
 May it bring happiness and prosperity to you and your loved ones.
 Happy Lohri and Sankranti 2018
 
 
 May this Lohri Give you a lot of Happiness & Joy..
  
  
  
 
 Mandir ki ghanti aur arti ki thali…
 Nadi k kinare suraj ki laali…
 Zindagi me aye khushiyo ki bahar…
 Aapko mubarak ho Sankrant ka tyohar.
 What is that bright light?
 From where is this fragrance coming?
 This gentle breeze and lively music...
 Oh! It’s Sankranti…Have an amazing day!
 Mungfali di khusboo, te gurh di mithaas…
 Makki di roti te Sarson da Saag,
 dil di khushi, te apneya da pyar…
 mubarak hove tuhanu Makar Sankranti da tyohar!
 
 May the Makar Sankranti fire burns all the moments of sadness and brings you warmth of joy, wisdom and love...Have a nice day!
 With Great Devotion, Fervour and Gaiety,
 With Rays of Joy and Hope,
 Wish You and Your Family,
 HAPPY MAKAR SANKRANTI
 
 Is Makar Sankrant…aapk jeevan ka andhera chhat jaye…
 gyaan aur prakash se aapka jeevan ujjwal ho jaye!
 HAPPY MAKAR SANKRANTI
 
 Look Outside…
 It’s so pleasant!
 Sun is smiling for you…
 Trees are grooving for you…
 Birds are singing for you…
 Because I requested them All to wish YOU
  A very happy Makar Sankranti!
 
 Wishing you and your family happiness, warmth, wisdom and moments you cherish for the entire year ahead. Happy Makar Sankranti
 Tan mein masti, mann mein umang. Dekar sabko apnapan jaise gud main meethapan. Hokar saath hum udayenge patang aur bharenge akasash main apne rang!Happy Makar Sankranti to you and your family!
 
 Meethe gur mein mil gaye til…Udi patang aur khil gaye dil! Har pal sukh aur har din shaanti, Aap sab ke liye laaye Makar Sankranti.
 Wishing you a very prosperous Makar Sankranti!
 
 The following crisp and short messages can also be used as Whatsapp status:
 
 May this Sankrant shower you with a lot of happiness & Joy...
 
 Imagination is the highest kite one can fly! Happy Makar Sankranti…
 
 May the beauty Of Sankrant festival fill your home with happiness and positivity...
 
 Wishing you and your family a very HAPPY MAKAR SANKRANTI!
 
 This year, talk sweet and be sweet…Happy Makar Sankranti!
 
 The eternal mystery of life is a new start. Happy Makar Sankranti
 
 I hope that in the new year, you soar as high as the kites that we fly on Makar Sakranti!
 
 
 
 Here are some images you can send to your friends and family, or share on social media… 
 (Courtesy: Pinterest)
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
