NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s crime branch has arrested two men who allegedly ran a racket of selling   marksheets and certificates of various universities across the country. The gang operated in the garb of an education trust.

 The arrested men, Sandeep Chahal and Balraj, were both graduates and belonged to Jind in  . Sandeep ran a coaching centre earlier, where a number of students approached him for help in getting their  . This made Sandeep hatch a plan to make quick money.
 
 According to joint commissioner (crime) Alok Kumar, the inter-state cell had received a tip-off about the gang’s activities. “Enquiries revealed that apart from giving fake degrees, the gang also provided forged documents of various universities. A team led by DCP Rajesh Deo and ACP Jasbir Singh conducted a raid near Mundka metro station and arrested the suspects,” Kumar said.
 
 The accused had formed an education trust by the name of Satyam Education registered in Haryana. They would contact various coaching centres to lure students and offer them degrees for a fee.
 
 “The students were enrolled in an open/distance learning university. They would not go to the college as the question paper and answer-sheet were sent to their homes. The accused would then get their answers submitted at the college and provide a fake degree to the student,” Kumar added.
 
 The gang would also provide a back-dated degree after conniving with officials of various open universities. In order to legitimise their act, the student was asked to write answers of the subject for which the fake degree was to be issued. Later, an entry in the desired date was made in university records,   said. The latter attracted high fee and the gang would charge anywhere between Rs 5,000 – Rs 20,000 per document. 
 
 Cops have seized a number of fake degrees, marksheets, migration certificates, identity cards and stamps, apart from a Macbook and three pen drives from the accused’s possession. They are also trying to prove the role of one Harender, who had introduced the duo to officials of various colleges and universities.
 
 
