NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday said the Centre was "in sheer contempt of this court" for disobeying its order to frame a Cauvery water sharing scheme by March 30 and ordered the water resources secretary to be present in court on May 14 with the scheme's draft. 

 In its February 16 judgment, the   had directed the Centre to frame a scheme within six weeks to implement the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal's modified award of river water among Karnataka,  , Kerala and Puducherry.
 
  Appearing before a bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices AM   and DY Chandrachud, Tamil Nadu's counsel Shekhar Naphade said the Centre was taking the state and the court for a rideby playing politics. "Someone should go to jail for this deliberate disobedience," Naphade said. 
 
  He also took a dig at PM   and said, "People of Tamil Nadu are facing water crisis and here is someone in the government who boasts that he works 24x7 for the welfare of citizens." 
 
  When the bench told the Centre that "actually you are in sheer contempt of this court," attorney general KK Venugopal said Tamil Nadu and Karnataka had submitted elaborate suggestions to the Union government on dos and don'ts while framing the scheme and constituting the  , which was tasked with supervising smooth allocation and sharing of river water. 
 
  The AG said, "Most of the Union cabinet members, including the PM, are busy campaigning for the Karnataka assembly elections. The Centre wants to deliberate on the suggestions made by the two states. It is such a sensitive issue and we must ensure there is no law and order situation." 
 
  Venugopal reminded the court of SC's March 20 judgment diluting the arrest provision in the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, which led to violent protests, resulting in eight deaths. "We must avoid such situations," he said. 
 
  Naphade pointed out the unpardonable deliberate delay on Centre's part to implement the court's directions and said, "We are for the first time hearing an argument from the Union government that it will not implement court orders because of possible law and order situation." 
 
  The bench said, "We do not want to get back to square one after the judgment, which elaborately dealt with the issue and modified the CWDT award. This has to be implemented." 
 
 The bench asked Venugopal when the draft scheme could be filed in court. He sought time till May 14, after the Karnataka election.
 
 In its February 16 judgment, SC had attempted to end the 126-year-old dispute. It had increased Karnataka’s share, reduced Tamil Nadu’s, while keeping Kerala and Puducherry’s allocation unchanged.
 
 
 
