HYDERABAD: Two  ,   and  , were on Tuesday expelled from the   and 11 more MLAs, including leader of the opposition K Jana Reddy, suspended for the ongoing budget session, a day after the "unruly" incidents during governor ESL Narasimhan's address to the joint sitting of legislature. Indications are that two more   MLAs, Ch Rammohan Reddy and Vamsichand Reddy, who were among those suspended, are likely to be expelled on Wednesday.

 This is the first time that MLAs have been expelled by the Assembly. The move, however, evoked widespread condemnation with the opposition BJP and TDP, in a rare display of unity, backing Congress.
 
 Demanding that their expulsion and suspension of others be revoked immediately, the two expelled MLAs began a 48-hour hunger strike at Gandhi Bhavan here on Tuesday evening. Indications are that the dharna would be intensified.
 
 
 
 
 On Monday, Telangana legislative Council chairman K Swamy Goud suffered an injury on his right eye when he was hit by a headphone flung from the Congress benches. The suspended MLAs include leader of opposition K Jana Reddy, deputy leader T Jeevan Reddy, J Geetha Reddy, Chinna Reddy, N Uttamkumar Reddy, Vamshichand Reddy, Padmavathi, DK Aruna, Ch Rammohan Reddy, D Madhava Reddy and Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka.
 
 Legislative Council vicechairman Nethi Vidyasgar suspended six Congress MLCs Mohd Ali Shabbir, P Sudhakar Reddy, Akula Lalitha, Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy, Santosh Reddy and Damodhar Reddy till the end of the budget session.
 
 As soon as the session began at 10am, Speaker S Madhusudhna Chary said certain unfortunate incidents had taken place. Legislative affairs minister T Harish Rao moved a resolution for the suspension of 11members and expulsion of two legislators from the House. While the speaker asked all the suspended MLAs to leave, Jana Reddy tried to speak, but was not given an opportunity to do so.
 
 Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said though it was a tough decision, it was taken to uphold the dignity and decorum of the house. He said the Congress has lost the faith of the public and got defeated in the all elections it contested in past four years.
 
 MIM floor leader Akbaruddin Owaisi supported the suspension and expulsion, calling Monday’s developments as a ‘black day’. “Every party has right to protest but should not cross the limits,” he said. But he said, before taking any decision, the speaker should have approached the leaders of various parties.
 
 BJP floor leader G Kishan Reddy said the party wa for keeping the dignity and decorum of both the houses, but added that leader of the opposition K Jana Reddy should not have been suspended. He said before taking any decision, the issue should have been referred to the assembly ethics committee. At this juncture, the chief minister and Kishan Reddy entered into a heated argument. While KCR questioned his support to the Congress, Kishan Reddy said it was not proper to be ‘intolerant’ while he was making a suggestion.
 
 
