SANGRUR: Punjab chief minister   skipped the fourth state-level debt waiver function held at Rampura village of Sangrur district as his chopper developed a technical snag minutes before he was to board it from his official residence in Chandigarh on Thursday morning.

 Elaborate arrangements had been made for the event in which the CM was to hand over debt waiver certificates amounting Rs 485.69 crore to 73,748 farmers from six districts of Barnala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Patiala, Rupnagar, Mohali and Sangrur. Thousands of farmers from these districts had reached the venue but were disappointed when they came to know that Amarinder was not attending the event. 
 
 The district administration had to convert a large area of agricultural fields around the venue into parking spaces to accommodate hundreds of buses and tractor-trailers that arrived at the venue from the six districts. Many farmers came with their tractor-trailers laden with food and organised langar sewa for the visitors. 
 
 In absence of the CM, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal handed over the debt waiver certificates to 14 farmers as a token gesture. Others who were also present on the stage included rural development and panchayats minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa, PWD minister Razia Sultana and forests and welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot.
 
 Earlier, there was buzz about Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee ( ) chief  , who had left the CM’s residence in Chandigarh on Wednesday in a huff after being asked to deposit his mobile phone, might not attend the event. But he came for the event and even praised Amarinder repeatedly in his speech. However, he maintained a distance from the media to avoid questions. Along with Jakhar, Amarinder’s wife and former Union minister of state for external affairs Preneet Kaur, former CM   and   chairman Lal Singh were also present during the event.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Bajwa announced Rs 25 lakh grant for upgradation of Rampura sports stadium. Manpreet said the CM had personally directed him to examine all the demands raised by Sangrur MLA Vijay Inder Singla, including that for a trauma centre at the Bhawanigarh civil hospital and a medical college for Sangrur. Razia Sultana and Dharamsot were unequivocal in their criticism of the Akalis, accusing them of indulging in mudslinging to cover their own follies. Preneet assured the gathering of government’s commitment toward overall development of the state.
 
 Others who attended the function included MLAs Madan Lal Jalalpur, Kuljit Singh Nagra, Randeep Singh Nabha, Balbir Singh Sidhu, Dalbir Singh Goldy, Surjit Singh Dhiman, Hardyal Singh Kamboj, Nirmal Singh Shutrana, Rajinder Singh Samana, Gurpreet Singh GP besides former Minister Jagmohan Singh Kang and ex-MLAs Mohammad Sadiq, Dhanwant Singh Dhuri and Harchand Kaur Ghanauri.
 
 ‘Regret not attending function’
 
 As the chief minister’s chopper was grounded due to a technical snag, making it impossible for him to attend the event, Capt Amarinder tweeted his regret. “Sincerely regret missing the opportunity to personally hand over debt waiver certificates to my farmer brethren in Sangrur today. Got grounded by a last-minute technical glitch in the chopper. My best wishes with the farmers, with a promise of continued government efforts to help them,” he tweeted.
 
 
