INDORE: The pending   work of DAVV’s 40-year-old   has started since the amount sanctioned for it was released recently. A budget of Rs 60 lakh has been allotted by Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) for the revamp.

 Speaking about the reason for delay in renovation work, vice-chancellor NK Dhakad said, “Even though development plan was passed and amount was approved, money was not released. Now that it got released, the work has started.”
 
 The library in charge Ajay Kumar said, a 14-point list was given to vice-chancellor regarding renovation of the building. It includes, civil and seepage work, women common room, washroom, water cooler and removal of unnecessary partitions, which interrupts light and basic facilities in the three-floored library.
 
 “We have started with terrace so that the work gets done before advent of monsoon. Thereafter, other work will be done,” he added.
 
 From the new session (July 2018-19), entry to the library will be digitized. Students will be able to go inside the library only after thumb impression. This will help librarians to keep a tap on number of students, who come to the library on a daily basis.
 
 “We are sure nearly 800 students, including the UTD, and those who are preparing for the PSUs come to the library on a daily basis. But we’re unable to keep a tap on duration and other things which will come in play after the access become digitized,” Kumar said.
 
 The officials also plan to increase fee to Rs 300/ year for the UTD students and Rs 500/year for those whose who are preparing for the PSUs.
 
 “For the last 25 years the fee was Rs 40/year for all but we are planning to increase it from the new session for the students,” said Kumar.
 
 Pointing towards the grant of Rs 21 lakh that has been approved to the library for digitization of thesis work, he said, “We were allotted with the amount in June or July 2017 for one year to digitalize the thesis work. But, as the work had not started before my joining in December, I have planned to ask the officials to extend the tenure for four to six months so that we can finish the work.”
 
 Out of the total amount, Rs 10 lakh is allotted for developing lab for electronic thesis and dissertations (ETD), while the remaining amount is for research and digitization work.
 
 There are more than three lakh books, which Kumar has planned to segregate, and remove the outdated ones after consulting authorities concerned.
 
 
