PORT ELIZABETH: South Africa simply can't go wrong when wearing pink. So much so that fans here don't mind the World's No. 2 team heading into the 2019 ICC World Cup in the same attire to get their hands on a trophy that've been after for 26 years.

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Their peach of a Pink Day record remained unbroken at the Wanderers yet again on Saturday when they batted against India's spin and against the force of nature to record a spectacular five-wicket win.
 
 In fact, given the strike rate absurdities at play, South Africa getting to a highly-altered   total with 15 balls to spare remained an achievement to cherish. In doing so, the hosts have now ensured that the six-match One-day series being played here will continue to retain its competitive edge going into the fifth game in Port Elizabeth.
 
 Given the result of the fourth ODI, a long debate could well be in store over whether India should've bowled first after winning the toss instead of electing to bat. South Africa, having won the rain-marred encounter in a gutsy chase, spared no time in adding fuel to the fire saying they'd have bowled first.
 
 
 
 
 The curtailed game post shower interruptions required South Africa to chase 159 runs off 21.3 overs and the hosts shifted into the T20 mode to get to the target.
 
 Flying into Port Elizabeth, the bay city South Africa's Eastern Cape Province, questions were asked of India's decision to bat first. "We thought in the evening, because of the breeze, the ball swings a bit. The wicket gets faster as the deck gets hard," opener  , who played his 100th 50-over game in Johannesburg and became the first Indian to score a century on the occasion, said.
 
 Heavy rain remained the evening's forecast but in no way can the cricketers be held responsible for not checking out on the weather. In fact, to India's credit, they managed to put a good 290 runs on board despite the middle-order not adding to the second-wicket partnership between   and Dhawan.
 
 "Miller played well and luck was on his side. First he got dropped and then got bowled on a no-ball. That happens," Dhawan added. Miller's early dismissal would've certainly given this chase an altogether different twist even as India's wrist spinners struggled to get a grip of the wet ball once play resumed.
 
 The loss in the fourth one-dayer should only be a blip in what has otherwise been India's series so far, one in which they've dominated the opposition with the ball as well as the bat. In fact, had Miller's catch been taken on Saturday evening, or had   not bowled the no-ball, Saturday's result would've certainly been far different from what turned out to be.
 
 "The main reason was we dropped a catch, then a wicket off no-ball, from there the momentum changed. Otherwise we were in very good position. Rain had an impact too. Our spinners couldn't turn the ball or grip the ball the way they did in the last three matches. That's the reason (for the loss)," Dhawan added.
 
