LUCKNOW: Lucknow students made a mark in CBSE class X results by scoring impressive percentages.

 
 Scoring 98.8%, Shristhi Mathur of Delhi Public School, Eldeco branch, clinched the second place in the Allahabad region.
 
 Astha Tripathi of   and   of Seth MR Jaipuria Bansal School, each with 98.4%, also brought reasons for the city to celebrate.
 
 All high-scorers have opted for the science stream in class XII. All of them also believe that fixing hours to study doesn’t help but having clarity in concepts is the key to scoring well.
 
 “I was expecting a good percentage but had never thought I would secure the second rank in Allahabad region. I fell just six marks short of scoring 500. It was in science and Hindi that I missed full marks,” said Shrishti.
 
 “I do not believe in studying according to a fixed plan or time schedule. Whenever I did, I made sure to focus only on studies and nothing else. My dream is to pursue engineering from the best institutes like IIT or NIT,” she added.
 
 Just two marks behind her, Astha Tripathi of Rani Laxmi Bai School said, “For scoring well, the most important thing is to maintain a balance by devoting equal time to all subjects. Making a timetable and sticking to it doesn’t help...but yes, one should remember to study all subject turn-wise.”
 
 Sharing the same marks, Vaibhav said, “I focused on understanding the concept and never adopted rote learning. Understanding concepts not only saves time but also helps retain information forever.”
 
 Scoring 98%, Nandini Sharma of Delhi Public School, Indiranagar, said, “During the examination, I made sure to take full eight hours of sleep. Cutting down on sleeping hours won’t help to score well but it makes one more stressed.”
 
 “If one is attentive in the classroom, memorizing becomes very easy. When I wrote the examination, I was reminded of my teacher’s lectures,” said Sameer of Rani Laxmi Bai School.
 
 For Alisha Sharma of Delhi Public School, Jankipuram, it was notes given by teachers and online education videos which made preparation easy for her.
 
 “I revised the notes multiple times and to memorise them, I took help of educational videos,” said Alisha.
 
