KOLKATA: Nobel laureate   won’t be saying the word ‘Gujarat’ in ‘The Argumentative Indian’. After a prolonged battle with CBFC, director   has accepted the cut. By having its way, CBFC has ensured that guideline 2(xviii) of the Cinematograph Act has not been violated and “public order” has not been “endangered”.

 “It is disappointing that an academician of Amartya Sen’s stature is being subjected to censorship in a democracy,” Ghosh said. His statement does not say whether or not he had a word with the Nobel laureate before accepting this cut. Sen himself hasn’t as yet commented on this matter. 
 
 Harvard professor and Presidency mentor group chairman MP  , who was also interviewed for this documentary, said he was “deeply disappointed” with this decision to accept the cut. However, many who didn’t agree with Ghosh’s decision have also maintained that he has the right to choose which battle he wants to fight, to what extent and till how long. 
 
 Though the director has acknowledged that his decision to accept the cut to get the U certificate is not the “first best”, his choice was “motivated” by the “strong belief” that the film needed to be shown to the public without further delay. “Beyond the controversies – which were rather unfortunate – I have a larger point in the film which needs to be communicated,” he said in defence of his decision. “Contesting” over one word will simply prolong the matter much more as his previous experience suggests. 
 
 Multiple protests over a six-month wait after refusing to accept six cuts for nine words had finally allowed him to retain eight of them. Ghosh did have the option of approaching the   to try and save ‘Gujarat’ from the CBFC cut. But he exercised the choice of not being the argumentative Indian any further.
 
 The director said that he “wished” the CBFC officially declared the reason for the ‘Gujarat’ cut so that a “healthy” and “meaningful” debate would ensue in a “public forum”. In the absence of such a declaration, Ghosh said he wanted to abstain from any “subsequent discussion” on this matter. “I will merely say that though I don’t completely agree with Mr Joshi and the CBFC Review Committee’s ratio0nale for the proposed cut, I appreciate the opportunity to consider his arguments – an opportunity that was not offered to me for the first time around when the proposed cuts were simply passed on to me in a somewhat ‘arbitrary’ and ‘authoritative’ fashion.”
 
 
