GURUGRAM: Panic gripped   on New Railway Road on Thursday, when a group of students clashed with an ex-student, leaving two injured. Bullets were also fired in the air. The incident brought the college’s security under scanner, as the outsider had entered the   premises undetected with an illegal pistol. An FIR has been registered.

 According to police, Vikram alias Vicky, a pass-out of the college, entered the premises at around 11am and cornered Mohit, a first-year student of BCom, in the canteen. Vicky’s friend Mohan, who is also studying there, was also present.
 
 Vicky whipped out an illegal country-made pistol and pointed it at Mohit’s chest. “He put a pistol on my chest and threatened to kill me if I didn’t tell him about my friend Narveer’s whereabouts,” Mohit told police.
 
 An argument ensued, and Vicky hit Mohit on the forehead with the butt of the pistol. Mohit snatched the pistol from his hands, and fired a few bullets in the air to frighten him. Mohit’s friends had gathered around by then, and fisticuffs began to fly. The shooting and brawling led to panic and chaos as students fled for cover. A police team soon reached the spot and took Vicky and Mohit, who suffered head injuries, to hospital. Mohan managed to escape.
 
 A college student said on condition of anonymity that Vicky was involved in a   with Narveer on Wednesday. Narveer didn’t come to college the next day, as he was badly injured. The accused came looking for Narveer on Thursday, and confronted Mohit after he didn’t see him, the student said.
 
 Mohit is being treated in General Hospital in Civil Lines, while Vicky is being treated in Artemis hospital. Cops said Vicky passed out from the college around four years ago.
 
 On the basis of a complaint filed by Mohit, an FIR was registered against Vicky and Mohan under sections 323 (causing hurt), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to combustible matter) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act, at the City police station.
 
 “We are investigating the matter, but the reason behind the clash is not clear so far. The illegal pistol has been seized. Vicky will be arrested after he is discharged from hospital. We are also looking for Mohan,” said inspector Praveen Malik, SHO, City police station.
 
 After the clash, questions were raised about how an outsider could enter the premises with a pistol. The college has CCTV cameras installed and a guard is also deployed at the main gate, but outsiders enter the college without permission through the rear wall of the college, which is broken.
 
 “The security lapse is because of the ongoing re-examinations of students of private colleges in our premises, which allows outsiders to enter in the guise of examinees. I have already written to the exam controller to exclude our college from the list of exam centres. We have security in place, but that is not adequate. Though we keep repairing the boundary wall, students repeatedly break it. We’ll strengthen security further, but we need frequent PCR visits to deter such acts,” said Sushma Chaudhary, the college principal.
 
 
