CHENNAI: The sculptures of   in   monuments have been a major topic of discussions for long. Scholars have different opinion about their presence in   art. So when G Rakshana started working on miniatures of the elephants found in the popular Arjuna’s Penance at a workshop in 2016, she understood that this was no easy task. But challenges aside, she came out with a beautiful miniature.

 The four workshops based on Pallava masterpieces, which began in 2015, were aimed at revisiting the glory of the tradition of Pallava art. The   (FoHS), which organized the workshops, conducted an exhibition of all the 16 sculptures made by the young artists of Mamallapuram at Art Houz in the city on Friday. The works were sold-out in the two-day exhibition that ended on Saturday. 
 
 D Nadhan, a young artist based in Mamallapuram, was happy when his sculpture was sold soon after the exhibition was inaugurated by commissioner of archaeology D Jagannathan on Friday. Creating the   on rock based on a masterpiece in Mamallapuram was difficult and Nadhan thought of moving to another assignment. However, a daily walk to the original sculpture gave him better ideas. He started working on it with a new pattern of style, thanks to Rajendran Krishnan, a lecturer at the   in Mamallapuram, and K T Gandhirajan, a rock-art expert, under whose guidance all the four workshops.
 
 “I made a lot of sculptures of gods and goddesses. The sun god didn’t come out initially. I was sad. I would go to the monument site and look at the original sculture for long. Repeated visits to the site helped. And the ideas started flowing. I am glad that my garden sculpture of the sun god was sold at the exhibition,” said Nadhan.
 
 The project was conceived with several objectives in mind, according to Sharmila Genesan of the FoHS. “Since the sculptors in Mamallapuram generally produce religious icons that are guided by strict iconographic rules, we hoped that by recreating Pallava images, especially those of a secular nature, the sculptors will understand a new fluidity in form and proportion,” she said, adding, “Another aim of this project was to help young sculptors access the untapped tourist market for Pallava mementos.”
 
 The artists had to bring in the aesthetic beauty of a big sculpture on the miniature that he or she was trying to create. “As sculpture students, we are taught how to make things based on measures. But this assignment was different. I had to deconstruct the usual pattern of my style to create the elephants in a tiny form,” said Rakshana, a final year B-Tech student at the Government College of Sculpture and Architecture.
 
 “We displayed 16 sculptures that are in the nature of garden and drawing room artefacts. The focus was on miniature versions of Pallava art and we trust this will bring the art closer to people. We sold many pieces on the first day itself. Events like these will give a major boost to the young artists of Mamallapuram,” said Genesan.
 
 
