THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Those who ripped into pieces an eight-year-old child in Jammu represented retrograde politics, which could only lead the country to an uncivilised and inhuman era, said chief minister   on Friday.

 In a response posted on his social media page, the chief minister said what the child had experienced would enrage and move any human being to tears. “Holding the girl in captivity at a temple fanatics then preying on her people’s representatives then occupying the streets in favour of the accused persons. The country hangs its head in shame over such ‘good days’,” he said.
 
 It was not the rape and killing alone that mattered, the reasons that led to such a ghastly incident were also equally important. “The little girl was raped and killed in the name of religion. It shows the dreadful situation in the country under   rule. Those who use even temples for such acts and the Sangh Parivar forces who support it are leading the nation towards dark ages of brutality. Sangh Parivar is being driven by pseudo love for religion and pseudo nationalism,” he said. Vijayan added that it was time the country woke up and rally for the cause of the hapless girl child.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan petitioned state police chief against the chief minister for revealing the name and photograph of the rape victim over social media platforms.
 
 “It’s not ignorance that prompted the CM to do that. By trying to give a communal tinge to the incident, his real intention has been revealed. BJP has filed a complaint with the DGP against the CM. The crime committed by him could attract imprisonment up to two years,” Rajasekharan said.
 
 He said the stand taken by the Jammu government was exemplary. “Since chargesheet was submitted in 90 days, there is no possibility for the accused persons to get bail,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition leader   said the attempts by the BJP, Sangh Parivar forces to protect those accused in rape cases were bringing shame to the entire country. Congress on Friday organized meetings across the state in protest against the rapes and killings. Former chief minister   inaugurated the protest meet at Martyrs’ Square at Palayam here.
 
