NAGPUR: The stage is set for grand shobhayatras to roll out from two prominent Ram temples in east and west Nagpur on the occasion of Ram Navami.

 In its 52nd year, Poddareshwar   Janam Shobhayatra will keep to its schedule. The procession will begin from Ram temple on Central Avenue. After mayor Nanda Jichkar performs aarti, the ‘chariot’ mounted on a truck will be pulled by youths for some distance. 
 
 Seventy floats and other regular features are part of the procession. “This year, about 350 youngsters of Panchajanya Sanstha will together blow conch from a vehicle which will move with the procession,” said  , founder member of the shobhayatra committee. “The theme of the rath is raas and it has been decorated to fit that mood,” he said.
 
 Escalating the levels of celebrations and grandeur this year, Paschim Nagpur Nagrik Sangh has added many new features to its procession which will roll out from the temple in Ram Nagar at 5pm. 
 
 The forty-five-year-old shobhayatra will have 61 floats and for the first time the idols of the temple will be part of the procession. “This time we have added four new rath in our procession,” said Anil Palkar, a member of the organizing committee. 
 
 A Ganesh rath will be the first to roll out, followed by peacock rath and a surya rath on which the idols will be placed. “101 youth will be pulling the rath with the idols,” Palkar said. 
 
 A few new features have been added too. “108 women will carry the mangal kalash on their heads and 51 young boys will carry the palki bearing Shri Ram’s paduka,” he said. The procession will also have floats conveying social messages like   bachao, save water, organ donation.
 
 A shobhayatra will also be taken out by members of   at 6.00am on Sunday. “This is our second year and we will be placing the panch dhatu idols of Ram, Sita, Laxman on a decorated five wheeler and take it around,” said  , secretary of Andhara Association. “After the shobhayatra we will be celebrating the Shri Sita Ram Kalyan Mahotsav at 11.30am,” he said.
 
 
