NEW: The   ( ) has given a clean chit to the doctors at   in a case where a   was allegedly wrongly declared dead. His parents discovered that the baby was still alive when they were going to cremate him.

 The state medical council, in its report to Delhi Police’s crime branch which is probing the case, has stated that the parents of the newborn, delivered at 23 weeks of pregnancy, had signed the Do Not Resuscitate (DNR) document.
 
 
  
 
 “International medical literature clearly suggests that fetus less than 24 weeks, if born, is not viable and not likely to survive. The Delhi Registration of Birth and Death Rules, 1999, prescribe that 28 weeks is period of gestation for it to be viable,” said Dr Girish Tyagi, registrar of DMC.
 
 He added that there were procedural lapses and inadequate documentation, which was probably due to absence of standard operating guidelines when managing such cases. “We have written to the Centre and the state to develop protocol for dealing with them in the future,” Tyagi said.
 
 On the allegations that the newborn, along with the other stillborn twin, was handed over to the relatives wrapped in a polythene bag, the council said hospital nurses had strongly denied this.
 
 “The twins with no sign of life were handed over to relatives/attendant of the patient covered in clean white sheets by sister herself in the presence of the security team and obstetrics and gynaecology doctor. To her understanding, the patient’s family on its own, for the ease of carrying, requested for and put the babies in the non-chlorinated yellow bag kept in labour room, which was permitted nor sealed/packed by the doctors or staff of the hospital (sic),” DMC said.
 
 The DMC report, compiled by five members who heard in person the victim’s family and hospital staff among others, comes five months after a committee constituted by the state government to look into allegations of medical negligence in the case found the hospital guilty. On December 8, Max Shalimar Bagh’s licence was cancelled.
 
 The cancellation order cited the committee report, which said the hospital had not kept any proper temperature and vital sign monitor record of the period of comfort care provided to the live male newborn. It added: “The committee also concluded the staff nurses on duty were also at fault as they handed over the bodies of the newborns without any written direction from the paediatrician and they also missed the signs of life in the male newborn while handing over the ‘body’ to the attendants.”
 
 
