DARRAH(Kota): The forest department is showcasing   (RNP) as a successful model for employment to villagers who are residing near Mukundra Hills   Reserve (MHTR) and are opposing the relocation of tigers to the area.

 More than 200 villagers from five villages have been taken to RNP to show various types of employment opportunities that have been generated in the area after it was developed as a tiger reserve.
 
  of Borawas, who visited RNP recently, said, “We have been told that job opportunities would increase manifold in the region after the tiger reserve is developed. Apart from the hotel industry, markets will be created for handicrafts and other local items, providing jobs for villagers.” Other than this, the forest department will also appoint villagers as field assistants to track tigers in MHTR.
 
 It remains a challenge to the forest department to provide safe environment for tigers in MHTR as a majority of villagers, living inside the protected forest area, are refusing to rehabilitation. Villagers are demanding compensation four times higher than what’s being offered to them by the forest department.
 
 Of the 14 villages inside MHTR, which was notified as the third tiger reserve in   in 2013, only two have been rehabilitated so far. “Only two villages,   and Kharli Baori, have been relocated so far. Residents of 12 other villages are not satisfied with the compensation,” a forest official said.
 
 As per the norms of National Tiger Conservation Authority, the wildlife department will provide Rs 10 lakh to every adult and compensate for land as per district-level committee (DLC) purchase rates. The villagers, however, are demanding a revised package.
 
 The initial survey of wildlife department revealed that over 4,000 people, including 1,500 adults, were residing in these 12 villages. “We have identified forest land to rehabilitate many villages. The proposal has been forwarded to the government and is awaiting approval,” sources in the department said.
 
 As relocation of tigers is a tedious process, the forest department is mulling a process to relocate tigers without shifting these villagers. Daulat Singh Shaktawat, a former forest officer from RNP, said, “Tigers can be reintroduced in MHTR even without the relocation of villages. The other two tiger reserves, Ranthambore and Sariska, still have villages inside the reserve areas. Nearly 27 villages were in   when tigers were reintroduced there in 2008. It still has 26 villages, but the tiger population has grown from two to 14 in Sariska.”
 
 
