PATIALA: The   (AIPEF) has urged the Captain   government to reconsider its decision to shut down the state-owned thermal units in Punjab.

 The federation, which on Sunday came out with a white paper on the thermal power plants in the state, said the   (CEA) in its latest quarterly report has listed the   thermal units 1 & 2 for life extension works to be completed in the current five year plan whereas the Punjab government has ordered the shutdown of these units contravening the CEA norms.
 
 This issue has been highlighted by the federation in its white paper ‘Decision of Punjab Government to shut down   units 1 to 4 and Ropar thermal units 1 & 2 - contravening of CEA norms’ released on Sunday.
 
 The AIPEF said the latest quarterly review report issued by the CEA gives the status of the state-sector thermal units undergoing life extension works for implementation in the 13th five year plan ending 2022. As per report, there are 34 units in the country with a capacity of 7,570 MW which are undergoing life extension works and two units of Ropar thermal plant have been listed at serial no. 4 and 5. These units of 210 MW each were commissioned in 1984 and 1985 respectively and by completing the ongoing life extension works there life can be increased by 10 to 15 years.
 
 The engineers said the CEA report states that a number of equipment in these units had been replaced. The white paper alleges that the expenditure already incurred on unit no. 1 of the Ropar thermal plant amounting to ₨. 131 crore would become in fructuous.
 
 They said the state government had no contingency plan for meeting the peak energy demand of the state during the coming paddy season. On the contrary, the Northern Regional Load Dispatch Centre, Delhi, has cautioned that all the six units of Ropar thermal must be operated in order to meet the energy demand of the state and in particular of the Ludhiana area during the coming paddy season.
 
 The power engineers said it should also be mentioned that the proposal to purchase extra power from the northern grid would not solve the overloading and low voltage problem of Ludhiana and for this the load centre generation at Ropar was necessary.
 
 Last year, during the paddy season the state power demand increased beyond 11,000 MW, there was serious problem of grid operation due to overloading and low voltage. Now the NRLDC has advised that the power transfer capability of Punjab should be reduced by 600 MW due to the shutting down of Ropar and   units. This means that in coming paddy season as and when the state load increased beyond 10,400 MW, the problems of overloading and low voltage would occur.
 
 It may be mentioned that during the paddy season 2017 there were as many as 30 days when maximum demand of Punjab was in excess of 10,400 MW, therefore, the Punjab government should withdraw its decision to retire state thermal units and restore units to operational status and start building up coal stocks for the paddy season, they said.
 
 
