GURUGRAM: She observes children closely and ensures those involved in wrongdoing “get a second chance”. She believes that if juveniles resort to crime, they do so mostly because of their faulty upbringing.

 Meet Nisha Saini, whose report on the Class XI student apprehended by the CBI in connection with the murder of a junior in a Gurugram International School, played a crucial role in the case. Nisha’s report on the student’s social background and his upbringing was an important factor the court relied on before deciding whether the boy can be tried as an adult.
 
 At a   programme in Gurugram, the 31-year-old legal-cum-probation officer at the district child protection unit was awarded by education minister Ram Bilas Sharma for her exemplary work.
 
 “I have handled around 450 such cases. I have prepared reports that are submitted in court. I have observed that in most cases, the child’s behaviour is disturbed. They are troubled because of their upbringing. When parents fight among themselves, the kids are affected the most because they are keen observers. Then, there are kids who want to live in luxury. Not getting what they want prompts them to involve in wrongdoing,” Nisha said. 
 
 Nisha joined the district child protection unit in 2012. Her role is not just limited to preparing reports on children’s behaviour. “When kids are brought to   homes, they are counselled. We make sure the kids get a second chance, they get an opportunity to stay in the society again. My work is also to ensure that if a kid comes to a shelter, he gets a proper counselling.”
 
 Nisha studied in a government school in Jacobpura in Gurugram and went on to pursue law in Faridabad in 2008. For around one-and-a-half years, she practised as a lawyer in the district court in Gurugram.
 
 The young officer said she had never been forced to alter her report, but conceded getting scared while visiting rural interiors to collect information about a child.
 
 “When I go to villages alone to speak to a juvenile, I do feel scared. I remember walking in Jharsa village in 2016. It gave me jitters as the entire village had come out — the panchayat members and politicians — but I still went about my work,” she said.
 
 
