  : In an attempt to recruit Goan teachers in colleges and universities, the state government is set to conduct coaching classes for over 1,000 aspirants to appear for the national- and   (NET/SET). Since there are several vacant posts and in some cases, unqualified teachers have been employed on contract basis, the directorate of higher education had sought applications for these classes. 

 A senior officer of the directorate of higher education said that since there's a huge number of applications, students would be given batch-wise training. "It would be classroom training but at a personal level, wherein one teacher would supervise five students," he said. There are 33 colleges under the directorate of higher education. 
 
 The department also asked colleges to submit names of lecturers who wish to be part of this programme, to train students to become assistant professors.
 
 The senior officer told   that it has been observed that many regular posts are left vacant due to non-availability of NET/SET-qualified candidates. At the same time, he said, many aspirants couldn't be employed as they hadn't cleared the NET/SET. 
 
 Thus, the directorate received 740 applications for post-graduation, 271 under the reserved category, and 69 in 'other' - which includes courses like master of laws, library science, engineering, fine arts, etc. 
 
 "The government has begun to prepare a database of aspiring NET/SET candidates," a senior official said. "Accordingly, a subject-wise training programme would be conducted." The questionnaire has been made available to all colleges, institutions, officers, etc, to be filled by candidates aspiring to clear NET/SET. It can also be downloaded at www.dhe.goa.gov.in and submitted at the directorate. 
 
 The officer said that while many posts are vacant in reserved categories, there are many qualified candidates from reserved categories without regular employment since their subject is kept open for general category. To get past this mismatch, the officer said that the directorate has begun to prepare a database of all qualified candidates from reserved categories.
 
 
