BHOPAL: The key accused arrested on charges of   on Sunday, Shailendra Singh told police that they planned the act to take revenge as the girl had snapped all ties with him in the past two months. During interrogations, the accused confessed to having forced the girl on his bike and taking him to his friend’s room and gangraping her on knife -point.

 ASP Vikash Shahwal said that Shailendra told police that he was friend of the victim since last two years. But she broke up with him in the recent past. 
 
 He suspected that she was having an affair with someone else. On Saturday, he called her to a restaurant through his cousin with whom she was in touch. He met the victim at the restaurant and pressurized her to come with him on his bike by snatching her phone.
 
 He took her to Sonu’s room where Dheeraj, Chiman and Sonu were already present as per plan. They assaulted her and pressurized her to make physical relation with him and Dheeraj at knife-point.
 
 He said that the knife used was a part of the key-chain of Shailendra’s bike. Police has seized the knife, bike and mobile of the accused.
 
 After the act, they let her go threatening of dire consequences if she revealed about the incident to anyone. The terrified girl narrated the incident to her mother and a friend on Monday and on their advice reported the matter to MP Nagar police.
 
 Finally, MP Nagar police station gets an SHO
 
 Bhopal: After the gang rape incident, MP Nagar police station finally got an SHO. DIG Dharmendra Choudhary said that inspector Upendra Bhati has been transferred from Traffic and posted SHO MP Nagar.
 
 The charge of SHO MP Nagar was under being taken care by Tarun Bhati, sub-inspector.
 
 The DIG said a special team led by SP Lodha Rahul Kumar including ASP-(Zone II) Vikash Kumar Shahwal, CSP (Govindpura) Virendra Mishra, SHO MP Nagar along with SI Saloni Singh would now investigate the case. The case will be treated as a special case and the charge-sheet would be filed in next 15 days.
 
 The hearing of the case would be conducted in a fast tract court.
 
 
