Mumbai: Call it over zealousness on the part of organisations to get it right each time they hire, the   process has lengthened for mid- to senior-level roles with more interview rounds being thrown in, hiring experts said.

 Over the last six months, even after multiple rounds of interviews, a pharma multinational is yet to close a position for a site head, said a search firm executive.
 
  In another instance, a decision on the post of a country head at an MNC is pending despite the fact that the applicant in question has undergone multiple rounds of interviews and is said to be a “discerning candidate” from the company’s perspective.
 
  A sales director’s role for a leading medical devices company, which has been cleared at the highest levels, too, is taking time to close, awaiting a final go ahead from the global headquarters.
 
  managing partner Mayank Chandra said, “Interviews have gone up for mid- and upper mid-level positions. While CXO-level candidates always had to face multiple rounds, we observe that there has been a significant increase in interviews for mid-level profiles for senior managers and above.” Given that middle management plays a key role in enabling objectives, organisations are including additional personal interactions apart from line manager and HR discussions for these levels.
 
 Chandra said companies are in a wait-and-watch mode and are going through cautious expansion. “At the same time, while evaluating fresh candidates for a role, they don’t want to lose good talent. So, they keep them engaged by having multiple rounds of interviews. Also, risk is minimised when multiple people review the same candidate,” said Chandra.
 
 The trend is to evaluate the maximum possible number of candidates available within a domain and sector before selecting the top two or three, and hiring the best among them. The reason is the tendency to play safe. According to   co-founder and executive VP Rituparna Chakraborty, organisations are realising that an interview is no more a reliable experience to identify a candidate who can perform to a role aligned with the specific company’s goals and culture.
 
 “Multiple rounds are an attempt to get a diversified feedback, and in-depth scrutiny through various scientific assessments are attempts to lower the risk of poor judgement. Skill deficit is mounting costs of hiring and added to that is the cost of non-performance. Both these have made organisations cautious,” said Chakraborty.
 
  India MD and CEO Paul Dupuis said organisations are cognisant of the consequences of making a wrong hire. “Financial implications aside, the cost of hiring the wrong person could have wide-ranging results from a decrease in employee morale to attrition among high performers,” said DuPuis.
 
 The time spent with multiple stakeholders gives companies greater clarity on candidate suitability from an alignment and fitment perspective, while also moving towards a consensus-based approach when it comes to hiring. “Given the equal importance being placed on cultural alignment in addition to that of skillset, it is worth investing the additional effort and time in finding the ‘right’ person for the job and not just one available ‘right-now’,” said DuPuis.
 
  group MD A G Rao said the selection process in India is constantly undergoing a change with needs of employers getting more competitive. “Multiple selection rounds are required to tap aggressive learners, innovative and flexible minds. Workforce dynamics are undergoing worldwide upheaval. Rapidly evolving technologies, business models, demographics, and workplace attitudes are triggering a tidal wave of change which is the major reason to why employers are taking longer than before in finalising the candidates,” said Rao.
 
 In the course of the selection process, multiple rounds are targeted on checking few important personality traits of the candidates, such as the ability to handle conflicts, emotional stability, intent of the candidate according to the patience shown during the interview and decisiveness.
 
 “Today, recruiters are increasingly looking for well-rounded candidates — those having the necessary technical skills complemented with important soft skills. Most of the jobs, or roles, which need the biggest amount of change are in the technology, fast-moving consumer goods, banking & finance, infrastructure, and telecom sectors,” said Rao.
 
 
