BENGALURU: There’s a general perception that seats under the Right To Education ( ) quota are ‘hijacked’ by  , but statistics portray a different picture: Thousands of seats reserved for disadvantageous groups in the state remain vacant every year. 

 In 2017-18 alone, a whopping 20,000 seats out of the 1.28 lakh RTE seats have had no takers. 
 
 According to the department of public instruction (DPI), over the past three years, despite the number of applications being one-and-a-half times or even double the number of available seats, 10%-15% of the seats have remained unfilled. This, however, has come down substantially from what it was in 2012-13, the first year of the implementation of the Act, when 57% of the seats were left unfilled, mainly due to lack of awareness. 
 
 Officials said several schools receive no applications at all, especially in north Karnataka, as they lack infrastructure such as playgrounds, bus services and proper buildings. This year, over 700 aided and unaided schools got no applications.
 
 “Most parents have preferences such as the medium of instruction, infrastructure, teaching staff, and the distance of the school from their home. They don’t apply in schools that don’t meet their requirements,” said B K Basavaraja, director of public instruction (primary education).
 
 In 2015-16, despite receiving 3.89 lakh applications for 1.11 lakh seats, 11,000 seats remained vacant. This worsened over the next two years, with 17,246 of the 1,15,237 seats going empty in 2016-17, and 19,647 of 1,28,648 in 2017-18. This might also have to do with the decline in number of applications filed— 3.89 lakh in 2015-16, 2.74 lakh in 2016-17 and 2.1 lakh in 2017-18. This year, the number of applications increased to 2.3 lakh, even as the number of seats offered rose to 1.52 lakh with government-aided schools being included under the Act. 
 
 However, Basavaraja said there is no such decline, and the number of applications appeared more in the initial stages due to filing of hundreds of duplicate ones.
 
 “In most cases, a few well-known schools with a quota of 30 seats each, get more than 600 applications, while some get none at all. Every parent wants their child to go to a good school, and if the schools are not of quality, then why will they admit them there?” asked B N Yogananda, general secretary of the RTE Students and Parents Association.
 
 He believes that all schools should be graded based on parameters like infrastructure, teacher-student ratio and past examination results and only those who meet the requirements must be included under the RTE ambit.
 
 V P Niranjan Aradhya, fellow at the Centre for Child and the Law, National Law School of India University, viewed this development as recognition of the ‘exploitative nature’ of some private schools, and the strengthening of the public school system.
 
 “There have been complaints about private schools collecting extra money from parents of RTE students in the name of extra-curricular activities. This exploitative nature might have discouraged parents from applying for seats. Also, there has been a visible change in the state of government schools. Parents are now being made aware of the kind of facilities and activities provided by public schools. Perhaps parents are opting for government schools over exploitative private schools,” he said.
 
 What happens to empty seats?
 
 Even if there is no demand for reserved seats, the schools have to keep them empty till the entire RTE process is over. Only after that, can they be offered to general category students. “The RTE process goes on till July, and by then the academic year would have started, so it’s hard for schools to fill up these seats,” said D Shashikumar, general secretary, Karnataka Associated Managements of Private Unaided Schools.
 
 
