NAGPUR: The 1.5-hour delay of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speech for students on handling   stress led to confusion initially as DD News was broadcasting clips of his speech at a different event at 11am. Soon enough teachers realized the error and then started the long wait for the PM’s interaction with the students at   stadium in New Delhi and also from across the country who had sent in their questions.

 While majority of schools in Nagpur broadcast the event for students, there were quite a few in the city who skipped it due to practical exams and other commitments.
 
 CBSE had issued a letter in the morning informing of a 45-minute delay, but not all schools in Nagpur had access to the information. 
 
 Principal of a multi-branch CBSE school said, “We had gathered students in the auditorium at 10.30am itself so that everyone settles down before the 11am scheduled start. The speech finally started at 12.35pm.” 
 
 Another principal said that live broadcast of the speech should not have been asked for by the CBSE. “Speech and interaction by the PM is an excellent idea but broadcasting it live requires a bit of logistical juggling. It is not just about putting up a large screen and projector. It is about coordinating schedules of all classes, shifting of periods and practical exams,” she said.
 
 At least two CBSE schools have recorded the event and will show it to the students later. Principal of one of the schools said, “There was another major event scheduled at the auditorium and we had pushed it back to broadcast the PM’s speech. But then the speech got delayed and the other pre-committed event almost went for a toss. But somehow we have salvaged both. Students have seen part of it and then we will be broadcasting it later.”
 
 Quite a few state board schools found it difficult to juggle practical exams and the PM’s event, and decided to skip it. A high-enrolment state board school principal said, “It was just not possible because of both the practical exams and because of the shift system. You can’t hold back morning shift students because over a thousand are waiting to get in for the afternoon shift.” With the local education department not following up actively with the schools, many stuck to their routine and conducted practical exams for Std X and XII students.
 
 But schools which did manage to broadcast entire event live said it was indeed an inspiring session for them. 
 
 Kamal Waghmare, principal of Deaf and Dumb School (Shankar Nagar), said, “The PM’s initiative to speak to students on such an important aspect of their life is commendable. I just hope from next time he is accompanied by an interpreter for deaf kids like ours so that even they're benefited.” 
 
 Even students in a government school at Gadchiroli’s Bhamragadh taluka enjoyed the experience of listening to the PM. Changdeo Sorte, coordinator for Sarva Shiksha Abhiyaan, said, “Children absolutely loved the PM’s friendly approach because he spoke to them as a friend, rather than a figure of authority. It was really not a speech, but more of advice.” The PM advised students not to let stress get to them and about the importance of understanding one's strength and weakness.
 
 CBSE issued a letter in the morning informing of a 45-minute delay in the PM’s speech, but not all schools in Nagpur had access to the information. Majority of schools in Nagpur broadcast the event, there were a few who skipped it due to practical exams and other commitments. Two CBSE schools recorded the PM’s event and will show it to the students later
 
 A few state board schools found it difficult to juggle practical exams and the PM’s event, and decided to skip it. I just hope from next time PM   is accompanied by an interpreter for deaf kids so that even they’re benefited. Kamal Waghmare, principal of Deaf and Dumb School 
 
 
