Visakhapatnam: It’s that time of the year again, when the season changes from   to  . And it’s also the time of viral ailments go up, as it happens during this transitional phase of the season every year. 

 Nowadays, usual viral ailments can take a complex turn due to recombinant (combination of two viruses) viruses and mutation of virus, caution doctors and advise public to take precautions.
 
 Since the last few days, the   has been fluctuating between warm and cool and mornings are at times smoggy. Denizens keep switching between using fans and turning it off owing to the fluctuatiing weather. During this transitional times, there is an usual increase of pathogens and allergens in the air. Quite obviously, the changing weather conditions trigger various types of fevers and ailments such as rhinitis (running nose), upper respiratory tract infection, sinusitis, pharyngitis, infection of the ear-nose-throat and so on.
 
 Warns Dr Kutikuppala Surya Rao, a noted general physician and Padmashree awardee from the city, “Since the onset of February, we have been getting at least 35-40 cases of viral infection cases on a daily basis. Usually, the viral infection starts with rhinitis or a running nose and gradually affects the upper respiratory tract, which can lead to throat pain and pharyngitis. Some people get affected by sinusitis or headache above the eyebrows, the ear, nose and throat can get affected and even spread to the lungs and lead to pneumonia if left untreated.”
 
 However, the viruses have a tendency to mutate due to a change in genome. The possibility of recombinant viruses or a combination of two existing viruses is also high. Though there is no proven studies about them here, medical literature has found such viruses as problematic. “Even though drugs for the two independent viruses may be available, to combat the recombinant virus, a new drug formulation would be required and the existing drugs may not be adequate in tackling the mutated or recombinant virus,” added Dr Rao.
 
 District medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Ronanki Ramesh said the elderly are the most vulnerable to infections. “It is the old people, children, people with diabetes and those suffering from some kind of immune deficiency disorders who are more vulnerable to viral infections. If affected by viral fever, they should take paracetamols and not go for antibiotics on their own,” the DMHO said.
 
 “If the fever does not subside within three days, they should get tests done for typhoid and malaria and consult doctors. Patients of viral fever, including children and the elderly, should take adequate rest, eat home-made food containing fruits and protein, and drink lots of warm, boiled, filtered water. They should avoid roaming outside and eating out. Children should not be sent to schools if they have fever,” Dr Ramesh added. 
 
 As a precautionary measure against viral fevers, doctors advise people to be careful while roaming in the open, avoid constantly switching between air-conditioned and non-air-conditioned environment, gargle everyday with warm salt water and maintain personal hygiene, especially washing hands with soap before meals and after visiting the toilet.
 
 
