PUNE: The families of 85 software professionals facing eviction following a notice from the the   (ED), Mumbai in relation to a housing project in   are in a fix.

 Shivprasad Satpute, a partner in the   Corporation Pvt. Ltd that has developed the project, said the firm is neither a construction firm nor a land developing agency. “We are a group of about 100 software professionals working in different companies and bought the land in January 2014. We wanted to construct houses for ourselves near our offices,” he said.
 
 The FIR, filed by an ED assistant director, alleges cheating, dishonest and fraudulent execution of deeds of transfer containing false statements (relating to the land) and criminal conspiracy on the part of the suspects. Provisions under the Prevention of Corruption Act have also been invoked. The FIR has been referred to assistant commissioner of police (Chatushrungi division)   for investigation.
 
 
  
 
 An ED spokesperson told TOI, “We have registered a case. I cannot comment any further on the matter.”
 
 The ED has stated in its complaint that the land was provisionally attached in March 2013 during the course of a money laundering probe against the Mumbai-based businessman and his group of companies. Following a probe and registration of original complaint before the adjudicating authority for PMLA, the latter confirmed the provisional attachment in July 2013. But the businessman sold the land to a realty firm in September 2013 despite the orders, it alleged.
 
 The FIR stated that the realty firm, in connivance with the sub-registrars’ offices, sold the land to the  .
 
 In September 2015, the ED wrote to the inspector general of registrations (IGR) and controller of stamps in Pune to stop registering any fresh sale transaction relating to flats in the project in view of the attachment orders. “We had challenged the ED’s letter to the IGR in the Bombay high court. But the court said that we had the alternative remedy available in the form of the original complaint by the ED, which is pending before the  ,” said  , director of Hindavi Swarajya.
 
 “The court disposed of our petition as withdrawn. We then approached the Appellate Tribunal against the ED. The tribunal has since directed both the parties to maintain a status quo in respect of the attached properties and the matter is now listed for next hearing on February 13,” he added.
 
