KOCHI: Traders operating out of   believe that the revival of the shopping area depends on the successful implementation of projects that would transform it into a shopping street.

 
 The area, which was once a paradise of shoppers, lost it sheen and glory with shopping malls and showrooms coming up at   and other areas along the national highway.
 
 “Multi-level parking facilities should be developed at an appropriate location so that people can park their vehicles and walk through these streets. Entry of vehicles should be curtailed. Parking lot can be constructed at GCDA-owned property at Marine Drive or the space available near   building near Broadway,” said P S Paul of St Francis De Sales Press at Broadway.
 
 “The Market Canal should be cleaned and depolluted and the concept of floating markets like the one in Thailand can be introduced to make this a lively place for shopping and entertainment,” said Paul.
 
 The shopping area was once considered a place where people could get anything from paper pins to spare parts of ships. Now, Broadway does brisk business mainly during school reopening and Christmas season. During weekends, there’s a Sunday market which mainly targets migrant traders. 
 
 “There are many wholesale and retail traders in Broadway. And goods of all price ranges are available here. However, the place has lost its sheen. It is possible to bring back large crowds only if Broadway gets a facelift,” added Paul.
 
 K N Marzook, chairman of   of companies, said that an underground walkway to Broadway connecting Marine Drive would be a better idea than constructing a skywalk. 
 
 “For constructing skywalks, there might arise a need to pull down buildings on the western side of Shanmugham Road. Any such move will invite resistance and end up legal suits being filed,” he said. Construction of canopies and provision for bunk shops will make the place attractive.
 
 “Priority should be given to pedestrianization of the entire area. Moreover, the Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) should take up the initiative to provide modern pedestrian crossings on Shanmugham Road.
 
 “The beautification and redevelopment of Shanmugham Road should also be executed,” he said, adding the Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce would be more than interested in taking up the case of Shanmugham Road development.
 
 “The CSML can initiate talks with the chamber for infrastructure development of the region,” he said.
 
 Apart from this, traders said that special focus should be given to divert drains flowing into Market Canal. They also pointed the need to have an effective waste disposal system.
 
