As the capital gears up to celebrate Attukal pongala, when women from all over Kerala and outside converge make a ritualistic offering to the goddess, a father-daughter duo is planning to pay an artistic tribute.   and  , Kathakali artistes based in Shoranur, will perform their production called   at   on March 2, the Pongala day. Based on the saga of Kannagi, the production of which will see its second performance in Thiruvananthapuram, it will have contemporary relevance too as it throws light on the plight of women in society.

 While in other mythological stories used for artistic presentation, women are depicted as either devi or rakshasi, Kannagi is different because it is about a woman who used her feminine power to destroy an entire city, says Kottakkal Nandakumaran Nair, a veteran Kathakali dancer famous for his Kathi veshams. “When I came across the Malayalam translation of poet Ilango Adigal’s Silappadikaram by lyricist S Ramesan Nair a few years ago, I got inspired to do this Kathakali production.”
 
 The main task was to change it into an attakatha in Malayalam. An experimental performance of Madhuradahanam was then staged at a high school in Shoranur on January 14, in association with the Ministry of Cultural Affairs. Coming to know about this performance, the Attukal temple authorities contacted us to perform the same on the Pongala day.”
 It took two years for the artiste, who is in his 70s, to give concrete shape to the production which is in three sections (rangams). The plot begins with Kovalan returning to Kannagi as a penniless man. The second part delves into the trauma of Kannagi when she comes to know that her husband is no more. The final part shows Kannagi on revenge mode. Aathira portrays the benign Kannagi in the first two sections while her father delivers the raudra bhava of Kannagi.
 
  “While mythological heroines in our stories including Seetha and Savithri are epitomes of endurance, Kannagi is different as she revolts against the authorities. This is the actual depiction on how a woman will react when forced by circumstances and faced with injustice. It is a reminder to society that women are not helpless and that they are their own saviours,” says Nandakumaran, a disciple of Kottakkal Krishnankutty Nair. 
 
 Aathira, an English lecturer at NSS College at Manjeri in Malappuram, says that the production goes hand in hand with her thesis on ‘Gender as or in performance, special negotiation in Kathakali’. “When my father conveyed this idea, I was thrilled. In Kathakali, the sthree veshams have only limited scope for performance. But we are breaking that convention through our production by exploring new expressions and moves for the sthree vesham through this story. Kannagi will be depicted in Minukku vesham in the first two sections and then the character will be in red costume to interpret the roudram,” says Aathira, who has been training in Kathakali for the past 10 years under her father.
 
 Nandakumaran insists that Madhuradahanam has been designed keeping the grammar of Kathakali intact. “It is challenging when we experiment with new topics. But we received positive feedback after the first performance and we will improvise as we go on.
 
 Aathira, 32, is also thrilled that she can depict Kannagi in front of Attukal amma. “The modern woman is being subjected to physical and mental harassment. On the one hand, she is portrayed as a devi while on the other, she is abused. So Kannagi will prove an inspiration for women on the power they have within them,” signs off Aathira.
 
