PATNA: Taking exception to the reported irregularities in promotion of   teachers under the career advancement scheme, governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik has set aside the decision of the university selection committee and directed the vice-chancellor to constitute a fresh selection committee within a month.

 After hearing a petition filed by Patna Women’s College political science teacher Shefali Roy who was denied promotion to the post of professor by the selection committee in December 2016, the chancellor observed that “it is apparent on the face of record the malafide intention on the part of the selection committee”. He directed the VC to reconsider the case of the petitioner in accordance with the provisions of the Patna University Act, 1976 (as amended till date).
 
 The promotion of Roy to the post of professor was earlier okayed by the screening committee, but rejected by the selection committee on flimsy grounds allegedly at the instance of the then VC Y C Simhadri. Even though the candidate did have more than 15 years’ experience of teaching in Patna Women’s College, her claim of promotion was turned down on the plea that she did not have experience of post-graduate teaching. 
 
 The promotion statutes clearly provide for promotion of teachers having either 10 years’ experience of PG teaching or 15 years’ experience of college teaching.
 
 Teachers’ petition To UGC: The Patna University Teachers’ Association has urged the   chairman to reconsider the conferment of autonomous status to Patna Women’s College (PWC) in the light of the latest UGC guidelines.
 
 In a letter written to the chairman, association president Randhir Kumar Singh and general secretary   have pointed out that PWC is a constituent college of PU and not an affiliated college. The UGC has already been informed that PU is a non-affiliating university and, hence, PWC should not have been accorded autonomous status by the UGC.
 
 Moreover, PU teachers posted at PWC have been consistently opposing the autonomous status to PWC, but their protest has been ignored by the authorities concerned, they said.
 
 
