NAGPUR: Neglected for years, the 5.5km road connecting Wardha Road to Jaitala T-Point and  , and running along the proposed  , will be concretized and developed in a systematic manner. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has approved Rs60 crore for the road from his special fund.

 The road, a lifeline for hundreds of people, is situated in the CM’s   constituency. With the latest approval, the total funds sanctioned by Fadnavis for his constituency in last three-and-a-half years has increased to Rs343 crore. Each legislator gets Rs2 crore per annum. At the helm of the state government, the CM has no limits, and can approve special funds.
 
  (NMC) data shows Rs208 crore were given by the CM for various types of works in S-W Constituency between December 2014 and March 2017. Later, the CM asked corporators in his constituency to submit list of works to be undertaken on priority in their wards. The corporators submitted a list of works costing Rs450 crore, of which approval for Rs75 crore came some months ago, followed by another Rs60 crore recently.
 
 Corporator and president of BJP S-W Constituency Prakash Bhoyar said work orders of Rs75 crore are ready and will be executed soon. “S-W Constituency is witnessing a slew of works due to the CM. The entire constituency is changing. Concretization of road along   project will come as a huge relief for hundreds of people,” he said.
 
 NMC is planning to rope in either VNIT or Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) to design the road project. “Parking lots will be developed along the road wherever possible. Footpath will be constructed on the two sides, along with storm water drains. Road-divider will be constructed on which street lights will also come up. Greenery and beautification works will also be undertaken. There would be no hurdles in the project as there are negligible encroachments on the road,” a NMC official said.
 
 Despite having width of 24 meter, the road is in bad shape for last many years. The road is bumpy and also has potholes. Surface layer of the road is very bad. Mishaps are a common occurrence on the road due to lack of road-dividers, footpaths, storm water drain, and proper street lights.
 
 The road’s development will also boost the proposed London Street project, which has been pending for last seven years.
 
 
