Actor   today dismissed rumours that there was a romantic sequence involving   in her film 'Manikarnika: The Queen of Jhansi', said those spreading such stories are actually defaming the queen. 

  
  
 Brahmin group 'Sarv Brahmin Mahasabha' from Rajasthan has raised objection over the film, alleging it features a romantic scene between Rani Laxmibai and a British East India company agent. Kangana, who is in the city to shoot for the film, said the crew is hurt by such allegations. 
 
 "It is very lowly (neech baat) to even think like that about Rani Laxmibai. We cannot even think like that, the kind of things they are saying. Reportedly, what they are saying is actually defaming. There is nothing like that. It is idle talk and I don't know why it is being said," the actor told. Kangana said the film has been written by  , who also penned 'Baahubali'. 
 
 "We are hurt and upset. The writer of the film, Vijayendra Prasad has named his daughter Manikarnika. We are hurt that such things are being said about Rani Laxmibai," she added. The objections against the film come close on the heels a similar controversy involving Sanjay Leela Bhansali's  , which a faced protests by Rajput groups. Now, Sarv Brahmin Mahasabha has raised concerns over  . The Mahasabha's president met with Rajasthan Governor Kalyan Singh, yesterday demanding that the filmmaker be directed to give an affidavit that there is no such scene in the film. 
 
 Meanwhile, Prasad has assured fans that there is no such scene in the film that would do a disservice to the memory of the brave queen. "The film's title is 'Manikarnika', because it is her name. Her parents named her that because she was born in Kasi and the Manikarnika Ghat there is very famous. Even I named my daughter Manikarnika, so you now know how much I respect Rani Laxmibai," he said in a statement. 
 
 The producers of the film,   and production house have also clarified that their film shows Rani Laxmibai in the most respectful manner. The film is slated to release on August 3.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
