KOLKATA: A second-year   student has alleged that a group of women abused and assaulted her and a male friend in Salt Lake on Republic Day eve because she was sitting in the Salt Lake DL Block park with him and he had an arm around her shoulder. The boy had kissed her forehead a few times.

 Shataparni  , 20, told TOI she was not afraid of her name or photograph being published as she had lodged a complaint on the   page of   on Sunday and sought strict punishment for the women who had assaulted her on grounds of  .
 
 “We were just chatting in the park with his arm around my shoulder when a group of six or seven women came up to me and asked me to sit properly and began calling me by bad names. They even accused me of being an outsider and asked me to leave, saying it was a ‘bhadralokeder para’,” said Bhattacharya, who lives in DL Block, a few houses away from the park.
 
 As the women began abusing the two, the boy removed his arm. The women were about to move away when the girl remarked how they were harassing the duo for nothing.
 
 “One of the women overheard me and returned with the group and threatened to get us arrested. One of them went out of the park and brought in two men in plain clothes who claimed to be cops. They began lecturing me on how to behave in public and called me a bad girl. They called me too brazen and said I needed to be locked away by police. They publicly harassed me in front of a huge crowd that had gathered by then,” said Bhattacharya.
 
 The girl called her father, who asked her to leave the spot. But a woman held her by the hair. Bhattacharya pushed her and the group of women slapped and kicked the student. “When my friend asked for help, the men who had introduced themselves as cops said I deserved it and held my friend back to ensure he could not protect me,” she said.
 
 The mob left the girl nearly unconscious. “I suffered an anxiety attack and was bedridden for the next two days. On Sunday, I gathered the strength to post a message on Bidhannagar City Police’s Facebook page. I posted on their page on Monday, too, but am yet to get a response,” Bhattacharya said.
 
 A police officer said: “I just received the complaint and have asked my officials to look into it. In Salt Lake, there are some people who get into arguments with young couples sitting in the parks. We will speak to the block residents and have asked for a report from our officers posted there.”
 
 
