AMRITSAR: Before killing himself, Inderpreet Singh Chadha, son of former president of Sikh body Chief   (CKD)  , had written to Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh not to arrest his elderly father and allow him to join the investigations in the sexual harassment case.

 In a four-page letter written in English and released to media by Punjab Human Rights Organisation (PHRO) here on Thursday, Inderpreet mentioned, “My father may be spared from harassment and allowed to join the investigations without arrest keeping in view his old age and the false complaint that can only be proved by him on joining the investigation.”
 
 He also expressed reservation on investigation of the incident under the current Amritsar commissioner of police (CP). Without mentioning any name, he wrote, “It is not a complaint but a humble submission that the current CP of Amritsar has very close relations with my brother and may not be able to carry out his function impartially.”
 
 Inderpreet also mentioned about an additional director general police (ADGP) stating, “The   may kindly also be kept out of picture on account of his relationship with my brother and the complainant.”
 
 He, however, had hailed the special investigation team (SIT) set up for probing the charges against his father and him in the case. “The SIT is doing a commendable work, I have full respect for the way they are conducting the investigation,” he wrote.
 
 Urging Amarinder to give a fair chance to his father to put his side of story, Inderpreet said, “There is so much evidence that has come forth in form of WhatsApp chat and audio clipping, taped by Jalandhar police, that clearly establishes that the lady complaint was a willing companion of my father than a victim of molestation or harassment, not only that the evidence points to a clever honey trap laid by her and her husband to take money from my father with clever play of romance and gesture.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Amritsar CP S S Srivastva couldn’t be contacted for comments. Inderpreet’s brother  , however, denied having any close relations with the CP or the ADGP as mentioned in the letter.
 
 
