VADODARA: Barodians can look forward to get more domestic connectivity from the new integrated terminal building of Vadodara airport. Sources in the   (AAI) suggest that   will be starting two new flights from August 1 connecting Vadodara to Delhi and Bengaluru. 

 The airline on March 8 started a flight Mumbai-Vadodara-Mumbai which is running thrice a week. With the new flights, air connectivity to domestic destinations from Vadodara will see a jump after a long time. “As per the schedule we have received, the airline is starting one flight from Delhi to Vadodara to Bangalore which will run on daily basis. At the same time, there will be another flight from Bangalore to Vadodara to Delhi from August 1,” said Vadodara airport director Charan Singh. 
 
 “With the new aircrafts, the total movement from Vadodara airport will increase to 26,” he said, adding that after the introduction of the new aircraft on March 8, the total movements at the airport have increased to 22. Jet Airways already operates two morning and two evening flight to Mumbai. 
 
 Interestingly, compared to the last financial year, the airport isn’t witnessing traffic growth. Last year, the airport had witnessed growth in number of passengers as many flights were diverted to Vadodara airport due to the re-carpeting work of runway at Ahmedabad airport.
 
 “But there is a clear growth in number of passengers when you compare with the situation of 2015-16 and the current financial year,” said Singh. 
 
 In January 2015-16, the total passenger movement at Vadodara airport was 88,000 which has reached 93,715 in January 2017-18. Similarly, in February 2015-16, the total passenger movement at the airport was 82,601 which has increased to 86,398 in February 2017-18. 
 
 In recent times, the new terminal building has also witnessed addition of passenger amenities including two restaurant facilities and tactile paving for the blind. 
 
 “On Friday, we are starting medical facilities at the airport building whereby a MBBS doctor will remain available during operational hours. This will be of great help to travellers in case of medical emergencies. We already have 108 ambulance service which remains stationed between 6 am and 10 pm,” he said. 
 
 
