NOIDA: Family members of sub-inspector Vijay Darshan, accused of shooting at Noida gym trainer Jitendra Yadav, have also demanded a   probe into the case on Wednesday, a day after Yadav’s family made the same demand. Darshan’s family has alleged the issue has been hijacked by political leaders and “given the colour of fake encounter”.

 Hari Shankar, Darshan’s elder brother, said his brother had called him sometime after the shooting and told him about the matter. “Vijay said the police team had reached the spot after getting a complaint about a group of men creating a nuisance and drinking in public. The men were drunk and manhandled my brother. In the scuffle, the shot was fired by mistake. We also demand a CBI probe into the case as some political leaders and outfits have got involved for their own vested interests,” Shankar told TOI.
 
 Darshan’s wife Chetna Sharma said the family is distressed over the gym trainer’s shooting. “I know my husband has patience… everybody knows the shot was fired by mistake. The entire incident has been given a colour of ‘encounter’ for political reasons. If my husband had intended an encounter, he would not have rushed the victim to hospital himself. I also want the CBI to probe the matter for a fair investigation,” said Chetna, also a constable in UP Police.
 
 Noida SSP Love Kumar transferred the case to the crime branch on Monday.
 
 SP (crime) Preeti Bala Gupta said inspector Yatendra Sharma is investigating the case. “A sub-inspector, Pankaj, will assist Sharma in the investigation. We have received the files and evidence collected by local police. The investigating officials are looking at all aspects. The accused cops and eye-witnesses’ statements will be recorded soon,” Gupta said. 
 
 Darshan’s family members and friends also expressed their concerns on Facebook, alleging the SI was framed in ‘fake encounter’ and the incident has been given a political colour.
 
 Shivam Gautam, who studied with Darshan in the same school, wrote on Facebook: “I pray to God to give strength to Darshan at this difficult time.” Politics ho rahi ha,” commented one Girish Upadhaya on the post.
 
 CCTV footage from Fortis hospital shows Darshan driving the Mahindra Scorpio in which Yadav was shot, and admitting him to the hospital on Saturday night. In the footage, Darshan is seen exiting the driver’s seat and talking to someone on his mobile phone. Some hospital staffers subsequently could be seen taking Yadav inside on a stretcher. 
 
 Meanwhile,Yadav’s Umesh Yadav said, “He is not able to speak properly. We will organise a protest at the DM office on Thursday.”
 
 
