Why limit celebrating love to just one day when you can do so for   whole  ? February 14, Valentine’s Day
 , might be the day when lovers take time out to do something nice for their special ones, but, mind you, there is a lot that you can do in the run-up to the day. In fact, starting tomorrow, every day is to be celebrated. Sample this: February 7, Rose Day, kicks of the week of love that culminates on the 14th as Valentine’s Day. Here is your seven day guide to the ‘love week’.
 
 
 
  
  
  Surprise your lover with a bunch of roses on this day and see her get all mushy. Give a rose to the one you like/love and no one will question your intentions!
  
  
  
  The second day in the Valentine’s week is supposed to be the ideal time for those in love to propose and take their relationship a step further. Celebrated on February 8 every year, this day sees a lot of couples hooking up.
  
  
  After roses and proposing to the person you love, impress him or her with a box of chocolates. The sweet treat has always been known to help in impressing lovers and is the one gift that you can’t go wrong with. What’s more, it’s even considered an aphrodisiac.
  
  
  
  For those in love who like to do all things mushy, Teddy Day is not to be missed. Your girlfriend is sure to like a soft huggable teddy that she can hug and sleep with at night. Though a cliché, for years, lovers have been gifting teddies to each other and sales figures have never gone down thanks to all the young lovers.
  
  
  
  The fifth day of the Valentine’s Week is quite significant for lovers as it is the time to make promises. This is the day that you can make up for missed opportunities and also make assurances for the future. You can right every wrong on this day.
  
  
  
  Seal your promise with a kiss! While you can kiss every day, make it count on Kiss Day. Lovers across the world celebrate this day, and in some places, they even come out in hordes at a particular place to do so.
  
  
  
  Nothing can make you feel better than a warm, tight hug, and that is what the sixth day of the Valentine’s week does. Take some time out to share a hug with your loved one and assure him/her that life is good and that love prevails.
  
  
  
  the seventh and final day in the week is Valentine’s Day, when young couples dress up and head to party with their lovers. Well, not just that, but this is also the day that you can buy gifts for your lover and your intentions will not be questioned. Whatever way you celebrate, the spirit remains the same — to celebrate love with your partner! 
