GURUGRAM: The Haryana   on Monday wrote to the deputy commissioner, seeking the district administration’s help in clearing encroachments on plots earmarked for   in and around the city. The move came a day after chief minister   said namaz should be read in mosques or idgahs rather than in public places.

 The board also sought adequate police protection during restoration or renovation of mosques and idgahs across Gurugram. According to the board’s May 6 letter, there are around 19 sites designated for mosques in villages and six in the city. If these mosques, it claimed, were restored and made functional, the number of people offering namaz in public places would come down, which in turn would bring down inconvenience caused to the public.
 
 “Gurugram has a growing Muslim population but there aren’t enough mosques in the city. This forces many people to offer   in the open. We have requested the administration’s help in restoring 19 mosques,” said Jamaluddin, estate officer, Gurugram Waqf Board.
 
 The board’s letter further stated that most of these mosques had been encroached upon by local people, mostly in villages.
 
 “In village Chauma, Huda has acquired the land earmarked for a mosque as part of a residential colony project. The development body was supposed to allot an alternative plot to build the mosque as per the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court last year, but there has been no action on that front,” Jamaluddin said.
 
 He claimed that the board’s attempts to restore or rebuild masjids in some areas have met with resistance from residents. A few mosques that require restoration has been mentioned in the letter, and they include mosques at village Gari Harsaru, Wazirabad, Jharsa, Bhondsi and Badshapur.
 
 Members of the Haryana Waqf Board were also of the opinion that if the mosques at Badshapur, Bhondsi and Jharsa were made operational, it would help tackle the problem substantially.
 
 However, the requirement of spaces for offering Friday prayers will still exist since the Muslim population, especially the labour class, is growing in the city. “We aren’t sure how we will conduct the Friday prayers this week. Namaz can only be performed if someone willingly offers us their places,” said Jamaluddin.
 
 Right-wing groups, meanwhile, also met the acting deputy commissioner and police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, asking them to ensure that no prayer is offered in the open coming Friday.
 
 Asked about the meeting, Vikram Yadav of Bharat Bachao Sangathan said, “We only thanked the chief minister for his statement. Our plan for coming Friday will be decided soon and shared on Tuesday.”
 
 When contacted, Chandra Sekhar Khare, acting deputy commissioner, said the administration have received a list of encroached land earmarked for mosques. “We are looking into the complaints. We will have more clarity on Tuesday. If temporary structures were erected on the land designated for mosques, they would be removed. However, if people are living there, we need to issue notices to them. We have called a meeting with Muslim leaders on Tuesday, where we will further discuss the matter of Friday prayers. We also met the right-wing groups on Monday and will solve the issue,” he said.
 
 
