As juice shops make a killing in the sweltering heat, a couple of them like the one near Complex bus stand witnesses an all-too-familiar sight. Away from the parched throats jostling to shout their pick will be a group of men or youth quietly standing aside to order their favourite "  juice’’ (bridegroom’s juice). Perhaps a little embarrassed to make their choice heard, they would rather wait and put it across softly than attract those "wicked glances" from the crowd.

 Maapillai juice is a blend of eight ingredients like milk, honey, dates, sapota, badam, pista, cashewnut and dry grapes — and a glass of it can keep one satiated for a few hours. "I always believed in giving my customers something healthy and which lingered on their tongues as well as their mind when they left the shop," said S  , the owner of the 16-year-old shop on Hyath Khan Road, TPK road junction explaining the origin of the popular juice. "That was when I decided to make a power-packed drink for men and tried different ingredients and mixes so that it had a good taste as well as vigour. Thus emerged "maapillai juice" which was initially named "manmadhan juice or cupid juice but was later toned down to maapillai juice." 
 
 Ali’s shop is no different from other fresh juice stalls, but has been a major crowdpuller especially during summer. ``We sell 45 types of fresh juices in various concoctions and many come here regularly and try each one of them,’’ he said. ``There are people who come and order parcels of the juice which sells for Rs 70 a glass especially during marriages," he said. The juice at the shop will cost you only Rs 60. "Now, many shops in Madurai have started selling juices in this name after it became popular. They sell it for even Rs 100 and above, but I prefer to keep my prices low and satisfy the customer," he said. 
 
 S  , a marketing executive, recalls how his friends had made him buy the drink as dessert after his bachelor party last year. "It was embarrassing because I had taken 20 of my friends with me, and asked for 20 glasses of maapillai juice. The shopkeeper as well as other people in the shop looked at me with surprise as my friends remained out of sight," he said.
 
 "I wouldn’t say there is a very big demand for it, but I sell many glasses of the juice mainly to youngsters and middle-aged people, both men and women. I know it is popular because some people come from far-off places making inquiries on where they can get a cool glass of maapillai juice," he said. 
 
 
