MANGALURU: With temperature soaring high, the city is heading towards another dry summer. However, the   (MCC) is fully geared up to ensure uninterrupted drinking water to people in 60 wards of the city. The new dam of 7mts height in   in Bantwal taluk with a maximum storage level of 14.73MCM has 6mts of water in it as on Saturday. The current storage is sufficient for a minimum of two months.

 The water level at the new dam, which was commissioned in December 2016, was maintained at five meters till December, 2017. Later, the water level at the dam was increased to 6 mts in January. The 6 mts storage as on Saturday indicates that the city may not face water crisis this summer.
 
 Mayor Kavitha Sanil said there will be no water rationing this summer as the storage in Thumbe dam is sufficient for a minimum of 60 days without inflow. “I have kept the promise made while assuming charge as the mayor of Mangaluru by increasing the dam’s storage capacity. 
 
 Chief minister   has on Friday sanctioned Rs 15 crore as compensation to be distributed among farmers, whose fields have been submerged after the increase of dam’s storage. This year, people will definitely not face drinking water crisis as the water stored in the dam is sufficient for 60 days, even if there is no inflow or pre-monsoon showers. However, people should use water judiciously,” Kavitha said on Saturday.
 
 Mangaluru City South MLA J R Lobo said the government will also consider increasing the storage level at Thumbe dam to 7mts in the days to come. “We will face no water crisis with storage sufficient for 60 days, but the engineers of MCC should ensure that the distribution mechanism is scientific. Ensure that all citizens in the city have access to drinking water,” he added.
 
 MCC council ruling party chief whip   said the dam caters water needs of Mangaluru, Ullal, Mulky and Haleyangadi. In addition, water is also being pumped to few villages in Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks unofficially. Provisions have been made to connect those villages with water connections officially under the Phase II of   (ADB) project, he added. 
 
 The Mayor along with MLA and others offered   on Saturday.
 
