NEW DELHI: Maya, Ruby, Stella, Nikki, Alice and Heena are part of an elite all-female squad of  . Most of these highly trained “girls” are just about a year old. What makes them unique? They are the latest addition to CISF’s   canine squad. 

 CISF’s   is now 60 strong with eight new recruits. It’s the need of the hour as the network is expanding, and there may be more additions with further expansion. Pure-bred puppies are bought and sent to BSF Academy in Tekanpur, Madhya Pradesh. They are trained to obey commands, sniff out explosives and contraband, and adapt to the crowded environment of metro trains and stations.
 
 Labradors and German shepherds are the most preferred breeds. A Labrador pup can cost up to Rs 25,000. Cocker spaniels and golden retrievers come next in the preference ladder. There are 31 Labradors in the squad, 17 German shepherds, 10 cocker spaniels and two golden retrievers.
 
 Trained dogs are sent back to CISF and their handlers chosen. “Volunteers are primarily those who love dogs,” said a CISF officer. The handlers also name the dogs, which get no salary or rank but get food, care and shelter. 
 
 There’s a reason why only   dogs are in the squad. “Male dogs can be more aggressive and we can’t allow that in a metro environment. More importantly, male dogs often get distracted while on the job, particularly when they are in heat,” the officer said.
 
 The dogs are kept in kennels at different facilities near the metro corridors. Their day starts early with grooming and physical training. Each dog does a four-hour shift, and 20 dogs are always present in the metro network at most times. Some dogs are also kept on standby at night for emergencies. When a dog sniffs an explosive, it sits tight at the spot. 
 
 But as the metro surface is slippery, dogs find it difficult to get a grip while walking resulting in some cases their legs getting bent, the officer said.
 
 Each dog has a career span of 10 years, after which it retires and is donated to an NGO. Many dogs are bought for security work in malls. 
 
 
