NEW DELHI: The central information commission has directed the ministry of external affairs to disclose records related to expenses incurred on chartering Air India aircraft for foreign visits by Prime Ministers from 2013 to 2017. 

 Chief information commissioner R K Mathur rejected the contention of the ministry that details of the amount, reference numbers, dates of bills raised by Indian Air Force and Air India for the foreign visits undertaken by the PM are scattered across various records and that collation of information would involve "searching of voluminous records by a significant number of officials".
 
 In his order, Mathur said that payment of outstanding dues would ultimately require collating of these bills and invoices and rejected the argument of the MEA that collation would disproportionately divert its resources. He said even if payment was made against these bills, it would have been done after compiling of bills/invoices. "Further, whatever payment is to be made, it needs to be done after collecting the bills/invoices. In view of this, the Commission is of the opinion that the respondent (MEA) should provide to the appellant travel bills relating to 'Air India' from FYs. 2013-14 to 2016-17," Mathur added. 
 
 The order came on an appeal filed by Commodore Lokesh Batra (Retd) who had sought to know details of bills, invoices and other records related to visits abroad of Prime Ministers between the financial years 2013-14 to 2016-17. 
 
  During the hearing, Batra said he was provided incomplete information by the ministry after which he approached the central information commission (CIC). He said he wanted the general public to be informed at what stage or with which public authority these bills and invoices are pending for payment. "Air India is a cash-strapped airline that does not make money. Therefore, delay in settling these bills would also include sizeable interest figure(s), which needs to be paid at the expense of taxpayers' money," Batra said. 
 
 
