PUNE: The crucial   underpass is set to be opened to traffic in 10 days, saving people going from Pune airport towards   to save at least 15 minutes of travel time in peak hours.

 While the one-way from Kalyaninagar to the airport was thrown open more than a month ago, Pune Municipal Corporation has said the construction on the other side will be done and dusted with in the next 8-10 days, after which the route will be open to traffic.
 
 
  
 
 Traffic was terribly affected from October 10, when the civic body had undertaken the construction of the underpass on the   to Kalyaninagar route. The eight-lane   highway was chock-a-block with vehicles, raising questions about the planning. Many had even accused PMC of executing civic works with little thought to problems faced by commuters. 
 
 Fifty days later, the civic authorities opened one lane, from Kalyaninagar to Vimannagar. “We are in the last leg of construction at the Ramwadi underpass. The target is to open the   lane in the next 8-10 days. Some concreting is still left. Curing takes some time and once it is done, we will be in a position to open the road to vehicular traffic,” the civic body’s executive engineer   told TOI on Thursday.
 
 Over time, the civic body and the traffic police department collaborated to implement solutions, which have ensured the queues of vehicles have reduced. However, problems still persist at the main junction — Shastrinagar — that connects Kalyaninagar to the main road and other adjoining areas like the Maharashtra Housing Board Development Authority building. 
 
 However, sceptical residents feel the civic body’s claims don’t paint as realistic picture. “It is unlikely that (the road) will be ready to use in 10 days. We have lost trust in such claims. The Traffic police need to up their game in this area. They are still allowing wrong-side offenders through this underpass. There is no point in building new roads if basic rules are not followed,” said  , a local resident. 
 
 “This underpass is an important route, as it connects citizens to the airport. A two-way at the underpass is a must. A well-manned two-way road will be welcome, but what is also required is better traffic vigilance by posting police personnel to manage the huge influx of traffic, especially during peak hours,” said Urvashi Shrivastava, a resident of Kalyaninagar. 
 
 
