MUMBAI: The Indian navy has allowed just three builders in Mumbai to start construction near its installations in the past one year, raising questions if it was being “selective” in granting these permissions. About 300-odd redevelopment projects remain stuck for want of a naval no-objection certificate (NoC).

 Residents of housing societies awaiting redevelopment said they are stumped how some builders managed to get the NoC when their properties located in the same vicinity have been kept pending. The affected projects are mainly in the eastern suburbs.
 
 A residential project by Runwals in Kanjurmarg, a commercial building by Piramals in   and redevelopment of a municipal property in Worli by Saumya Buildcon were the only projects cleared over the past year. A fourth proposal, a residential one by Kanakia Developer called Kanakia Zen in Kanjurmarg, was cleared because it was found to be outside the naval boundary.
 
 A defence spokesperson denied the navy was “selective” in issuing NoCs. “The navy has a thorough process and strict rules and regulations while granting these permissions. We have no bias towards anyone,” he told TOI. The Indian Navy has a Material Organisation Store at Ghatkopar and the INS Tanaji at Cheetah Camp in Mankhurd.
 
 Property market sources said while the navy has cleared these few projects within 500 metres from its establishments, hundreds of others are awaiting permission. “These projects are in the same vicinity, yet some builders have managed to procure the NoC while others are languishing,” they said. Moreover, the construction restrictions are mostly around naval residential colonies, which are already fully developed.
 
 But the naval spokesperson said even a naval housing colony is considered a “soft target.” “The security level is the same,” he said.
 
 Last year, the construction industry found itself in a bind when the   refused to sanction building plans of projects falling within 500m of naval installations. The municipal commissioner issued a directive stating these builders should first procure the navy’s NoC before submitting proposals to BMC for approval.
 
 In early 2017, the civic building proposals department stopped processing permissions after the navy’s objection. This affected projects in Ghatkopar, Kanjurmarg and Mankhurd.
 
 Runwal Forests, a residential project by Runwal Developers in Kanjurmarg, was the first to receive the NoC last year. The project falls inside the 500m boundary.
 
 Last December, the navy sanctioned a Piramal project in Kurla (W). It involves construction of two wings of a building, with the height of A-wing restricted to ground-plus-six storeys. “The proposed construction for which the NOC is issued, will be undertaken at your own risk, subject to condition that the department/Indian Navy/ministry of defence/government of India is totally indemnified against any claim, what so ever, under all circumstances,” said a letter signed by   to the BMC.
 
 The project by  , called   in Kanjurmarg, was also given the go-ahead after it was found it was outside the 500m boundary of the naval installation. The building is eight floors high on the boundary of the Naval Civilian Housing Colony (NCHC).
 
 Property market sources said the navy should remove this clause and allow construction for all instead of being selective in giving NoCs. Most of these navy installations are in fact navy residential colonies, and areas surrounding them are fully developed.
 
 According to municipal documents, construction projects in Kanjurmarg and Ghatkopar have been severely hit. In Ghatkopar, there are 148 ongoing projects in the vicinity of what records describe as the “Ghatkopar Naval Base.” In Kanjurmarg, about 40 ongoing projects have been affected close to the “Kanjurmarg Naval Base.” In the L-ward (Kurla), documents show 32 ongoing projects have been affected.
 
 
