PATNA: Doctors in the city have cautioned people to take precautions against diseases during this season of rising temperature.

 Diarrhoea, typhoid, jaundice are some of the common ailments in summer. People may also suffer from calorie and vitamin loss. With maximum temperature reaching 35 degrees Celsius on Monday, doctors advise people to keep hydrating regularly.
 
 In charge of   (PMCH) central emergency, Dr Abhijit Singh, said the number of heatstroke and heat exhaustion cases rises when the temperature hits 38-40 degrees C.
 
 “Looking at the trend this year, people might start experiencing such problems by the end of March or beginning of April itself,” he said.
 
  general physician Dr Bikas   said cases of diseases related to heat would start coming with further surge in temperature.
 
 “Diabetics, cardiac patients and those with chronic kidney diseases, chronically sick or afflicted with any malignancy as well as elderly and children may not be able to easily adapt to the sudden change in temperature. They are more prone to heatstroke or heat exhaustion. People who have problems with respiratory failure or have allergies are also susceptible to viral fever as well as cold and cough,” Dr Saurabh said.
 
 He also advised people to keep hydrated and cover themselves properly to save from heat exposure. 
 
 Dr   from the skin department at   and Hospital (NMCH) warned people against the use of medicated soap, which are frequently advertised during the summer. “These medicated soaps kill the body’s natural bacteria and microbes, which are the body’s defence mechanism against alien impurities. This may cause the skin to develop infection and allergy,” Dr Shankar said. He also advised people against use of homemade remedies that might lead to an adverse reaction.
 
 He said it is also the transmission period for chickenpox and other viral infections. “People are advised to apply sunscreen at least 20 minutes before they leave home. Creams that have steroids for fungal infections should also be avoided,” Dr Shankar said.
 
 
