Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has rejected KSL and Industries Limited’s revised layout plan meant for regularizing unauthorized constructions in Empress City and Mall. Also, as per documents obtained under RTI, validity of the fitness certificate issued by the fire and emergency services department expired on December 31, 2017. It was issued on May 6. An NMC fire department official told TOI that KSL’s application seeking renewal of fitness certificate has been received and is under scrutiny. “Applications are for the old and new buildings. A decision will be taken after an inspection and taking the consent of the town planning department,” he said. A town planning department official said the revised layout plan of Empress City and Mall was rejected on September 14. “KSL had got sanctioned layout with five plots on August 26, 2005. Plot no. 1 and 2 were sanctioned for an information technology (IT) park. Plot no. 3 was for commercial and residential, plot no. 4 for a hotel and plot no. 5 for Empress Mall. KSL submitted a revised layout plan seeking amalgamation of all five plots. The revised plan was rejected for many reasons,” he said. The official added that amalgamation of five plots is not permissible in case of different users. “Also, KSL did not leave the mandatory recreational space in the layout. The mandatory no-objection certificate from the labour commissioner was not submitted,” he said, adding that there are other reasons too. Gaurav Tayal, a KSL director, said NMC had raised some points which will be complied with. “We had challenged the NMC decision in High Court,” he said but could not produce the stay order. However, the town planning department official said, “We have not received any court order.” Activist Shailesh Dhoble said KSL has committed many violations even after two NMC notices (July 10, 2013 and April 16, 2013) to demolish unauthorized constructions in Empress City and Mall. He has been following up KSL violations since 2013 and based on his complaints NMC had issued notices to the firm. “According to the building plan approved by NMC, KSL has to create parking space on the fourth floor in Empress Mall. However, it is using it for administrative purposes. There is no ramp for vehicles going up to the fourth floor,” said Dhoble. The activist added that KSL started construction of a second temple in the open space even though it had been served a notice for the first one. “Construction activities are going on in the hotel building. KSL has repaired a warehouse that was partly demolished by the NMC. There are other violations in Empress City and Mall too,” said Dhoble, adding that the NMC should inform the HC about revised layout plan being rejected and “take appropriate action”. Tayal, however, said that the fourth floor is vacant. “There are no violations in Empress City and Mall,” he said. KSL has also not paid property tax and water bill arrears amounting to Rs54 crore. An NMC official said action cannot be taken as KSL has obtained a stay from HC.