GURUGRAM: The verification process of people eligible for Ayushman Bharat  , touted as the world’s largest   protection programme, was launched in   village, located on the city’s fringes off Pataudi road, on Monday. 

 Wazirpur is the first Gurugram village where the process is being done. Under the National Health Protection Scheme, popularly known as  , an eligible family will be provided a health cover of Rs. 5 lakh per year for free treatment at hospitals.
  
 Wazirpur village comprises three small hamlets — Hamirpur, Mewka and Wazirpur — and has 96 families who will be the beneficiaries of the scheme based on the Socio-economic and Caste Census (SECC) of 2011, which is being used as the basis to identify eligible people. Modicare, according to the Centre, will cover nearly 40% of the country’s population.
 
 State health minister Anil Vij, while participating at an Ayushman Bharat Diwas event in Ambala on Monday, claimed that Haryana could be the first state in the country that kicked off the preliminary work ahead of rolling out the flagship medical scheme. 
 
 “Under this scheme, the health department has invited tenders from insurance companies. After selecting the insurance firms, a list of panel of hospitals will be prepared. With the implementation of this scheme, economically weaker people would not have to avail loans from moneylenders or banks for their treatment and surgeries,” said Vij.
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said the survey to identify beneficiaries was kicked off in rural areas on Monday. “Beneficiaries’ list is prepared on basis of the socio-economic caste census data, and gram sabhas have verified the list. The survey will be completed by May 10 and the data will be uploaded on national portal after that,” Singh said.
 
 According to district development and panchayat officer Narender Saarwan, names of families across villages were read out in gram sabhas as part of the verification exercise on April 24, but some families didn’t respond, which necessitated a door-to-door survey for verification. “In Wazirpur itself, of 96 families identified, 28 did not respond. One family had already left the village, and shifted to some other place. This will now be verified by auxiliary nurse midwifery (ANM), Asha and Anganwadi workers, who will conduct a door-to-door survey. A list based on the SECC survey has already been handed out to them,” he said. According to the district authorities, the number of beneficiaries is still being tabulated.
 
 Under the National Health Protection Scheme, the Centre estimates the cost of insuring each family would be about Rs. 1,100. Citing a national survey report, the Economic Survey had pointed out that people had to spend an average Rs. 26,000 for treatment per hospitalised case in private facilities.
 
 The state government had conducted a fortnight-long celebration to create awareness on various government schemes in villages across Haryana. According to a district official, the Centre has adopted two villages in Gurugram under Gram Swaraj Abhiyan. As many as 21,000 villages have been chosen across the country for saturation of seven central welfare schemes under this programme. In Gurugram, villages Zakopur and Loh Singhani in Sohna, which have a substantial SC/ST population, have been picked for implementing it.
 
 
