PUNE: Irate relatives of a patient beat up a doctor and other staff members and also damaged property inside   in Erandwane early on Monday after the woman died during treatment in the hospital.

 
  
 The Alankar police later arrested three men for the attack. One of them is the woman’s husband Datta Waghmare (39) and the other two are Siddheshwar Gaikwad (24) and Aniket Randive (24). All three are from Taljai Vasahat in Sahakarnagar.
 
 The trio has been charged with rioting and voluntarily causing hurt under sections of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Maharashtra Medicare Service Persons and Medicare Service Institutions (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) Act. The assistant manager of the hospital, Nitin Mahabal, lodged a complaint with the police.
 
 Mahabal told TOI that the woman who died who was suffering from arthritis and other infections. She was admitted to the hospital on May 17 for treatment. She had been taking treatment in another hospital. “On Sunday night, the woman died during treatment. There was no negligence on the part of the hospital,” Mahabal said. 
 
 Her husband and other relatives alleged that the doctors in the hospital were responsible for her death and started arguing with the doctors and other staff.
 
 “ Early on Monday, three of her relatives, including the husband, beat up a doctor and two staff members inside the hospital,” Mahabal said.
 
 The relatives threw down two benches from the first floor reception counter. “Monitors and phones and other objects on the counter were damaged. Some also broke the glass of a door on the first floor. The damage amounts to Rs 30,000.”
 
 Mahabal said there were policemen inside the hospital when the relatives beat up the doctors and other staff members. “Policemen intervened and prevented them from creating more of a ruckus,” Mahabal said.
 
 Cops tried to pacify kin for two hours
 
 An officer from the Alankar police told TOI that after the death of the woman on Sunday around 10pm, her husband and other relatives came to the police station. “The relatives alleged that the woman died due to medical negligence and wanted to register an offence against the doctors,” the officer said.
 
 Initially, they refused to claim the body. A senior officer pacified them and the relatives left the police station after promising to claim the body, a police officer said.
 
 Around midnight, the police got a call from the hospital about the tension inside the hospital premises. “Our team went to the hospital and tried to pacify them. They insisted on registering an offence against the doctors. When the relatives were told to file an application, they went inside the hospital to claim the body,” the officer said.
 
 Instead , they took to violence. “We have arrested three and booked eight persons. Our probe is on,” the officer said.
 
 
