Tucked between two commercial entities on Strahans Road in Chennai, stands a three-storey dilapidated building with area so small that it would have been a struggle to fit a couch in one of its rooms.

 Trees have taken roots off and around the building’s walls, which appear to be on the brink of collapse. Not many remember that it was this building that housed the   (MLU). The building has been lying neglected and shut following an internal feud in the MLU for 17 years. Today, in the   of MLU’s formation, the impasse threatens to dissolve into insignificance the union’s proletarian legacy, its historical significance (MLU influenced the enactment of the Trade Union Act, 1926) and the impact it produced on the nation’s trade union movement in the pre-Independence era.
 
 MLU, considered the first recognised labour union in the country, was formed on April 27, 1918. The office building was opened on September 16, 1931.
 
 But, before 1918, trade unionism did not amount to much in India, wrote Abani Mukherji, co-founder of the Communist Party of India. In an essay titled ‘Indian Labour Movement: A Review of the Situation’, published in the September 1922 edition of ‘The Communist Review’, a journal published by the Communist Party of Great Britain, Mukherji underlined the role of MLU: "It was out of the strike movement of 1918 that unions came into existence. The first one was organised at Madras by Mr B P Wadia. Since then the progress of the (trade union) movement has been both rapid and successful."
 
 Wadia, the first MLU president led the strike by union members — all daily wagers — at the erstwhile Buckingham and Carnatic (B&C) Mills, operated by M/s Binny and Co. 
 
 "Before the trade union act was legislated, there was no protection for striking unions, especially union leaders. When the first mill strike occurred, Wadia and MLU vice-president Thiru Vi Ka (V Kalyanasundara Mudaliar) were fined `75,000 by the British. Thiru Vi Ka said they had nothing to offer but the clothes they wore," recalled G Ramakrishnan, former state secretary of the CPI (M).
 
 Despite being a great ancestor to other labour unions, MLU failed to evolve with the times. Its membership was exclusively taken up by B&C mill workers, which turned out to be a problem in 1996 when Binny Mills shut shop. 
 
 "The union became defunct because several members left after the mill shut. Many opted for voluntary retirement but some chose to fight it out. A settlement was later negotiated between the management and the workers. But the union ceased to be," said R Kuchelar, who was the last elected MLU president.
 
 But Kuchelar is blamed for letting the union become defunct by K Mahendran, a CPI(M) former MLA who represented Perambur constituency. A "committee" was convened to remove Kuchelar and appoint others in key capacities. Ruffled, Kuchelar’s supporters took the matter to the state revenue department. Officials locked the premise, asking both the parties to seek legal recourse to settle their dispute. This was in 2001, said N Sriramulu, general secretary, B&C Mills staff union.
 
 "There was no need to have kept the building shut. (The dispute) was a minor issue. We will write to the government seeking help to release the property because the union is historical and its centenary year needs to be observed," said A Soundararajan, general secretary, Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU).
 
 Perhaps, MLU’s distinction (it is not affiliated to national trade unions like CITU or AITUC) was also its disadvantage. "The union has received no support from fraternal unions all these years," said N G R Prasad, senior advocate, Madras high court.
 
 Mahendran, who says he has been MLU president since 2008, did not prefer government intervention for fear of the union losing the property. "One of MLU’s bylaws state that if the union were to ever become defunct, then the building would be transferred to the Pachaiyappa’s College Trust. The present members do not conform to this bylaw," Mahendran said.
 
 Ramakrishnan noted that at a recent conclave of trade unions, it was "unanimously resolved" to revive the union. "Hopefully, the union leaders can come together and formulate a plan to reconstruct or renovate the building," he said. 
 
 
