The latest episode of   starts with   taking   out for a coffee and   awaits Ishita. Adi gets romantic with Aaliya and even brings her coffee. Both click some pictures and on the other side, even Ishita and Raman walk into the same coffee shop. Raman and Ishita are happy to see Adi and Aaliya making an effort to make their relationship better. 

 Later, Aaliya gets Mani's call and she informs him that she is on a date with Adi. Mani is happy that Aaliya is finally happy and Adi is trying his best to make their relationship work. In another scene, Adi asks Aaliya if he can upload their photos on social media. Aaliya happily says yes and Adi sends their picture to Roshni. He even messages her asking if she felt jealous seeing them together. Adi tries to call  , but she does not pick up his call as she gets disturbed seeing Adi and Aaliya's pictures. Ishita and Raman discuss how Adi has got his romantic genes from Raman and suddenly they notice that Adi is going inside the coffee shop again.
 
 Ishita follows him inside and calls out to him. Adi is trying to call Roshni and meanwhile, Ishita tells him that she is happy that her son has finally realized his mistake and is making an effort for their relationship. Later Adi calls someone. 
 
 In another scene, Shravan is at a mobile shop and hears that someone is taking down an order for a brand new phone from Aditya Bhalla. Shravan wonders why is Adi buying an exactly same phone? Within no time, Roshni receives the phone and also gets Adi's call on it. Adi tells her that he cannot live without her anymore and keeps asking her if she is hurt seeing him with Aaliya. Later, Kiran gets Suraj's call who tells her to meet him and Kiran leaves the house in a hurry. Madhu notices Kiran going to meet someone and informs Raman and Ishita about this. Raman and Ishita start following Kiran and after a while, they cannot see her. In another scene, someone from the Bhalla house is seen informing   that Ishita and Raman were following Kiran. Madhu calls Ishita telling her that Kiran has returned home and they wonder that a few minutes ago, she was here and suddenly she returned back home. 
 
 
