AHMEDABAD: In an unprecedented move, police along with municipal authorities, demolished an   belonging to a woman bootlegger, Sunita Batange of Chharanagar, on Friday morning. Police said the property was found to be illegal and it was also established that the property was built from the proceeds of her illegal liquor business.

 Additional commissioner of police, Sector 2, Ashok Yadav, said this is perhaps the first such incident in the country, where police and municipal authorities are working on demolishing the illegal properties of bootleggers.
 
  
  “On Thursday, the state’s top cop Shivanand Jha had directed senior officers to directly monitor investigations into liquor seizures worth more than Rs 20 lakh and to explore organized crime, forgery and money laundering aspects, so the enforcement directorate can invoke the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) against them. The decision to demolish this illegal property of a bootlegger came after that,” added Yadav.
 
 Yadav said the operation began at 11am with the demolition of Sunita’s house in Chharanagar. “There was resistance from locals. However, we had one deputy commissioner, two assistant commissioners and 200 personnel along with 35 AMC staffers to handle the situation. An accidental fire at a nearby cotton dump proved a bit of a hindrance,” added Yadav.
 
 Police officials said the operation continued till late in the evening. “We have a list of 50 such bootleggers including Anil Bhuriyo of Kubernagar and Raju Gendi. We are conducting a survey with help from municipal authorities and will soon demolish their properties as well,” said Yadav.
 
 Municipal authorities said one demolition worker, Chandu Patel, was injured when a slab collapsed during the demolition work. “He was rushed to a nearby hospital. He suffered only minor injuries,” a municipal official said.
 
 Liquor trafficking in luxury buses 
 
 Senior police officer said they have intelligence about some bootleggers using luxury buses coming from Rajasthan to traffick liquor. “About a 100 such buses enter the in the early hours every day. We have planned an operation to check such buses to catch bootleggers and their traffickers,” added Yadav.
 
 
