GURUGRAM: For the first time in its history, Mumbai agency   will have a woman heading its India operations. In addition to her new responsibilities as chairman and managing director,   India,   will continue to steer Procter & Gamble (P&G), Grey’s largest client, for the Africa, Middle East and Asia (AMEA) region.

 Samat, who in May completes 25 years at the agency, joins a well-established roll-call of accomplished and successful women CEOs at Grey, including Debby Reiner (Grey NY), Sarah Trombetta (Grey Group Hong Kong), Irene Wong (Grey Group Malaysia), Kanaporn Hutcheson (GREYnJ United, Thailand),   (Grey RC&M India) and Yukiko Ochiai (Grey Group Japan), among others.
 
 “Across the world, gender diversity has become an important issue, and you see lots of campaigns on it – in fact, people have coined a term for it, ‘Femvertising’. And it’s because that’s how the world is changing,” Samat told TOI.
 
 Samat joined Grey as an account director on  , and has mentored teams in Europe, Asia and North America, across diverse disciplines and cultures. In 2015, she took home the Asia-Pacific Account ‘person of the year’ award, on the back of enterprising and exceptional leadership of the P&G business for Grey Group in Asia Pacific (which account embraces 12 countries and includes eight brands). 
 
 While admitting that these are uncertain times, as much for the agencies as for their clients, Samat believes Grey can ride out the churn. Still, the advertising industry, she insisted, must innovate to stay relevant. “Reinvent the agency model almost – and Grey is a good place to do it because we’re not too big, we’re not too small, we have a decent set of clients, and some really smart people.”
 
 Samat credited Grey’s “nurturing” culture for empowering the agency’s women. It’s a culture, she adds, that encourages women to reach the “very top” of their game. “Grey really mentors and nurtures its people, and it does take care to create an environment so that women don’t leave, because that’s a big issue in advertising particularly,” she explained.
 
 Nirvik Singh – chairman and CEO, Grey Group Asia Pacific, Middle East and Africa – described Samat as the epitome of the ideal Grey ‘career person’. “Yash has a proven track record in understanding the clients’ business and the challenges they face, (with) an uncanny ability to analyse and resolve business issues,” he said.
 
 Nirvik praised Sunil Lulla’s endeavours in helping grow the Grey brand in India, to the point where it is, now, one of the country’s most vibrant agencies. It’s no thanks to the outgoing chairman and MD that Grey was one of the few major agencies in India to experience growth in 2017. It all makes for a smooth passing of the baton.
 
 
