PUNE: A 30-year-old   and pledged his gold chain to raise Rs70,000 to convert it into US dollars. He   on Tuesday afternoon near Dandekar bridge. In return, he got a bag of old newspapers.

 The victim, Ganesh Ikare of   on Katraj-Kondhwa Road, lodged a complaint against three persons with the Dattawadi police. An offence under sections 420 (cheating) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of IPC has been registered.
 
 The complainant drives a cab for a travel firm and ferries employees of a software company at Magarpatta, said senior inspector Anil Patil of the Dattawadi police.
 
 On April 5, Ikare had parked his car for a nap in the afternoon. A person woke him up, showed him a currency note and asked if it was from Nepal. “Ikare told him the note was from America as it had the US dollar symbol,” Patil said.
 
 He said the person gave the US $20 note to Ikare and told him to exchange it for Indian rupees. “The person then introduced himself as Mukesh. He told Ikare to save his phone number after taking Ikare’s. He also said he had 1,276 such notes with him,” Patil said.
 
 On Monday, Ikare exchanged the note from a Kondhwa-based forex dealer. “After finding it genuine, Ikare contacted Mukesh and asked for more such notes,” Patil said.
 
 Mukesh offered Ikare all the notes against Rs2.5 lakh. “As Ikare did not have the money, he disconnected the call. On Monday night, Mukesh called Ikare again and told him to pay Rs70,000 in advance and the remaining amount after exchanging the dollars,” Patil said.
 
 When Ikare accepted the offer, Mukesh told him to come to Dandekar bridge on Tuesday afternoon. “Ikare pledged his gold chain for Rs20,000 and withdrew Rs50,000 from his bank account. He reached Dandekar bridge around 1.30pm and called Mukesh,” Patil said.
 
 He said Mukesh asked Ikare to come near a canal in the area. When Ikare went there, two unknown persons approached him. One of them looked mentally disturbed.
 
 “The other person introduced himself as Mukesh’s friend and took the money. He gave Ikare the bag supposedly containing dollars and told him to wait there as he had to drop the other person home,” Patil said.
 
 The duo left towards Janata Vasahat. When Ikare checked the bag, he found old newspapers in it.
 
 “Ikare immediately tried to contact Mukesh, but his cellphone was switched off. Ikare then lodged the complaint,” Patil said.
 
 
