CHENNAI : The move by the AIADMK government to unveil the portrait of former chief minister   in the Tamil Nadu assembly on Monday has come under attack from the opposition parties led by the  , which accused the state government for planning to unveil the portrait of a “convict” in the state assembly.

 Other opposition parties, including the Congress, PMK, DMDK and CPM, too have questioned the state government’s move on the ground that Jayalalithaa has been convicted in a corruption case by the highest court of the land. While the DMK is likely to take up the issue before the Madras high court on Monday, besides boycotting the function, the   too has said its members will not take part in the event. Tamil Nadu speaker P Dhanapal is set to unveil the portrait on Monday in the presence of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and others.
 
 
 Opposition divided over unveiling of Jaya portrait; DMK, Congress to boycott event. The   convicted Jayalalithaa, post her death, in the disproportionate wealth case last year along with her close aide V KSasikala and two others.
 
 DMK leader M K Stalin on Sunday questioned the hurried move by the EPS government in unveiling the portrait, especially when his party’s petition, questioning the use of Jayalalithaa’s photo in government offices and functions, is coming up for hearing in the high court on Monday. TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar in a statement wanted the state government to drop the plan to unveil the portrait of Jayalalithaa. As a mark of protest, the Congress legislators in the assembly will boycott the function, he said.
 
 AIADMK Rajya Sabha MP, V Maitreyan termed the move a fulfilment of the wish of party cadres. Disqualified MLA and prominent leader of rebel T T V Dhinakaran camp, P Vetrivel too welcomed the move, but questioned the right of the EPS-OPS camp in doing that.
 
 BJP state president Tamilisai Soundararajansaid, “It was not easy for women to succeed in politics. Jayalalithaa was not only a legislator, she functioned as the Leader of Opposition and also the chief minister of the state.” Curiously, Congress party legislator from Vilavancode assembly constituency, S Vijayadharani too welcomed the move. “Jayalalithaa was a successful political leader and launched several schemes for women empowerment. As a woman legislator, I feel Jayalalithaa’s portrait too should adorn the Assembly hall,” she told TOI.
 
