Karwar: Hundreds of   drivers and conductors have started an online campaign demanding the   in the coming election. The campaign picked up pace in Uttara Kannada district, where a large number of NKWRTC workers have shared it on Facebook to convey their message to the Election Commission. 

 In their online request, KSRTC conductors and   have stated that they are deprived of the right to vote in every election. There are a total of 1.25lakh workers in KSRTC and during every election, they are either entrusted with election duty or sent out of their home towns on regular duty.
 
 They are now demanding that they be treated on par with other government servants deputed on election duty, and allowed to cast postal ballots. 
 
 KSRTC buses are used to transport EVMs and election staff to polling booths. After completion of the election, these buses are used to shift EVMs to counting centres. Those on election duty are allowed to cast postal votes, which are counted just before actual counting of votes begins. But in most cases, these drivers are not treated on par with other election staff and not allowed to cast their votes.
 
 “Drivers and conductors who are not on election duty travel 200-400km from their constituencies on regular duty and cannot vote. This is disparity. The department and Election Commission should find a solution to this,” said Nagarajaiah, a KSRTC driver. 
 
 The public and political parties also support KSRTC employees. “Our government and the Election Commission spend several crores educating people on their right to vote. We have seen big advertisements on KSRTC buses to create awareness about the voting right of citizens. It is an irony that drivers and conductors who move from different places in such buses with advertisements are being deprived of their franchise. Instead, they should be allowed to cast postal ballots while on duty, said Rajesh Nayak, spokesperson of Uttara Kannada district BJP. 
 
 A senior KSRTC officer said the problem should be solved at the level of the Election Commission and KSRTC officials have no role in it. 
 
 
