AMBALA: A case of fake income certificate has been alleged by an anonymous letter to the administration of   in  . It has been alleged in the letter that a student has been admitted to Class II by his parents after submitting a fake income certificate from the authorities. 

 The school administration has filed a complaint against the father of the student with the district police. The student, however, is still studying in the said school.
 
 Talwinder Singh, a resident of Geeta Nagri, Ambala City, had got his son admitted to Class II at Mind Tree School under rule 134-A. For the admission, Talwinder had submitted his income certificate to the school administration along with an affidavit stating that his annual income is Rs 96,000 after which the school administration gave admission to Talwinder’s son after completion of all formalities.
 
 Pertinently, Rule 134-A of the   states that private schools shall reserve 10% seats for meritorious students belonging to economically weaker section (EWS) and the school shall charge fee from these students at the same rate as charged by the government schools. 
 
 A few days ago, an anonymous letter was sent to the school administration alleging that Talwinder Singh had submitted fake income certificate to the school and his annual income was more than Rs 96,000.
 
 Later the school also received a call from the sender, who enquired about the status of the letter. After receiving the call, the school officials started investigation and filed a complaint with the police after finding Talwinder’s income certificate to be fake. It was found that Talwinder worked with a automobile firm and his annual income was Rs 4.13 lakh, which is four times more than Rs 96,000 as claimed by him. 
 
 Model Town police station in-charge assistant sub-inspector   said, “On the complaint of Mind Tree School authorities, a case has been registered against Talwinder Singh under sections 191 (giving false evidence), 193 (punishment for false evidence) and 177 (furnishing false information) of Indian Penal Code. We are investigating the matter and verifying some reports from Talwinder's company and after that the accused will be taken into custody.” 
 
 Deepak Mongia, a representative of Mind Tree School, said, “We are disappointed to notice that how the rights of the deserving candidates under Rule 134-A are being exploited by some people by furnishing fake affidavits and certificates. We have no objection in admitting students under rule 134-A, but the genuineness of the candidate is questionable.
 
 
