GANDHINAGAR:   deputy chief minister Nitin Patel on Wednesday said he was unaware of the BJP-led   government's rejection of Gujarat's demand for an additional 1,500 cusecs of Narmada water to preserve livelihoods and the ecology downstream, in Gujarat. 

 "We do not have information about an official response from the Madhya Pradesh government. Every state takes decisions according to their own circumstances and requirements. It's isn't necessary that two state governments of the same party reach similar decisions."
 
 "The   (NCA) has a rule that 600 cusecs be released downstream from the Sardar Sarovar dam near Bharuch. However, with the closing of the dam gates this year, water has not overflown into the river and it has hence started drying up. We thus demanded that the NCA release 1,500 cusecs instead of 600 cusecs. This additional water is not from the state's fixed quota, it for the special purpose of keeping the river from drying up. The three party states will give their opinions to the NCA and the environment sub-group will also give its opinion. We have demanded the release of 1,500 cusecs and not just for the current year."
 
 M S Dagur, additional chief secretary (ACS) of the Narmada department, wrote to the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change (MOEFCC), asking that more water be released into the river in November 2017. He sent a second letter to the government of India last month. The MP government has turned down the demand.
 
 In January 2006, the environment sub-group of the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) decided that a minimum of 600 cusecs be released for 157km downstream length, either through the river-bed power house (RBPH) or the Godbole gates. The government has admitted that 600 cusecs is not enough to address environmental concerns.
 
 "Earlier, the water released downstream in a water year was significant, because of the river-bed power house operations, monsoon overflow etc. Thus, there was no significant adverse impact downstream. In the last two years, because of limited running of the RBPH, just 600 cusecs is being released through Godbole gates. This is not adequate for the downstream environmental requirements," Dagur had written in his letters.
 
 The state government received several representations from MPs, affected people and NGOs, who have raised serious concerns on issues ranging from salinity ingress, poor water quality, water depth, width of flow, erosion and hindrance to boats.
 
 "It is requested to direct NCA to come out with a solution by enhancing the quantity of water to be released in the downstream and release at least 1,500 cusecs in the downstream during current water year up to June 30 or till a solution is arrived at. This will certainly help in protecting the downstream," the Gujarat government had written to the Union government.
 
 A senior Gujarat government officer said, "We have again requested GoI to intervene and force Madhya Pradesh to release more water. They have cited insufficient reserves and expressed inability to provide it, so we we will have to pursue the issue further."
 
 A key source in the   (NVDA) in Madhya Pradesh said, "There was a commitment to discharge 5,500 million cubic metres (MCM) of water to Gujarat. By January, the state had already supplied 5,000MCM but Gujarat wanted 800MCM more."
 
 
