CHENNAI: Dissident lagislators backing T T V Dhinakaran on Thursday alleged 1,500 crore loss to the state exchequer due to high corruption in the highways department headed by chief minister Edappadi K  . The now-disqualified MLAs alleged that family members of the chief minister won the high-cost contracts recently through the 'single tender' route for the projects. Fisheries minister D Jayakumar dismissed the allegations as being "politically motivated". 

 The rebels, Thanga Tamilselvan and P Vetrivel, made the allegations to reporters outside the secretariat complex at Fort St George. Earlier, Vetrivel was denied entry. The MLA had kicked up a controversy by releasing  's hospital footage at the secretariat on the eve of the RK Nagar byelection in December last. On Thursday, the chief minister was not in his office when police prohibited the disqualified MLA from entering the secretariat to talk to reporters. Among the projects mentioned by the two MLAs, two come under  , funded by   for reconstruction and development of highway roads, including four-laning of   section of state highways (SH-37). The 70.2km-long upgradation work was estimated to cost Rs 713.45 crore. In addition, the government extended viability gap funding of Rs 314.85 crore, but the TTV camp alleged the tender was awarded at a higher rate of Rs 1,200 crore. 
 
 Strengthening and widening of Tirunelveli-Sengottai-Kollam Road (SH-39) at a cost of Rs 720 crore was another high cost project coming under fire. The plan was to upgrade 45.64km at an estimated cost of Rs 407.76 crore, along with viability gap funding of Rs 179.94 crore. "These tenders were awarded to a sole bidder violating the tender rules. The loss to the exchequer is huge. This is not Amma's government, but that of corrupt EPS government. EPS' family and associates are looting government money. Let the governor take up suo motu cognisance and inquire," Vetrivel said. TTV faction also alleged 'swindling of government funds" in Madurai Ring Road project (awarded a year ago) and widening of Vandalur-Walajabad Road project. 
 
 Highways department sources said the   Sector Project II tenders were finalised through international e-bidding and none was prevented from taking part. "In fact, World Bank cleared the contractor after necessary perusal. We also deny single bidder for Madurai Ring Road project. The Tamil Nadu Transparency in Tender Act was followed appropriately. The widening of Vandalur-Walajabad Road project has not been awarded due to legal impediments," said a senior official. 
 
 Thanga Tamilselvan charged the highways department with awarding five-year maintenance contracts in districts like Ramanathapuram, Tiruvallur and   to the CM's associates. "Let there be a CBI inquiry into the scam. The murky deals will come out," he said. The MLAs threatened to "expose" more corruption against other ministers as well.
 
 
