SHIMLA: The CBI has achieved a major breakthrough in the Kotkhai gangrape and murder case with the arrest of a local person, who does not belong to the group of five persons earlier arrested by the police. The CBI is tightlipped about the arrest and is not ready to divulge any further information. With this arrest there are hopes that the investigating agency would crack the case before the next date of hearing on April 25.

 The CBI team presented the accused before court, which remanded him till April 25. Earlier, the accused was taken to the   and Hospital for medical examination. The accused would be questioned in Delhi and more names are likely to emerge in this gruesome incident.
 
 After filing the status report in the court on March 29, the CBI had intensified its investigation and its various teams were on the job and constantly visiting Kotkhai area, including Hailaila forest, from where the body of the victim was found on July 6, last year.
 
 Confirming the arrest, CBI spokesperson   said that the one arrested had been taken to New Delhi. Unhappy with the failure of the CBI to crack the case, the Himachal Pradesh high court on March 28 had stated that even eight months after taking over the investigation, the CBI was clueless with regard to the whereabouts of the persons engaged and involved in the heinous crime. A division bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice   had observed that, “Are we to understand that officers of the CBI are not competent enough to unearth the crime of such a nature in the past eight months? After all, as we understand, it is not a case of destruction of evidence. It is also not that the investigation is to be conducted in a foreign land/off shore,” it pointed out.
 
 After the court expressed its displeasure on the way CBI was investigating the case, the very next day the investigating agency had submitted a fresh status report in a sealed envelopepe.
 
 Meanwhile in the custodial death case, the CBI has arrested nine police officials, including the IGP heading the SIT to probe the gangrape and murder case, along with an SP and DSP.
 
 
