NAGPUR: The spontaneous agitation by   organisations across the country without direct support of any national political party once again underlines the newfound aggression attained by these marginalized groups. The bandh affected only   and Dalit dominated area as protests were aimed at   order putting safeguards on invoking SC/ST Atrocity (Prevention) Act.

 In the city, till noon there was no sign of the agitation and its participants. Just after 12 noon, Dalit activists, mostly belonging to small Buddhist groups and non-government organisations, fanned out. They burnt a city bus in Indora, stopped a train near Kamptee Road Gurudwara and disrupted traffic movement all along that road up to RBI Square burning tyres and effigies. 
 
 BSP activists wielding party flags then joined the protestors and held ‘rasta roko’ till 5 pm . BSP functionaries Suresh Sakhare, Krishna Bele along with hundreds of supporters were present at Samvidhan Square and stole the limelight of the agitation. “It is so surprising that such a violence and arson took place spontaneously. It is hard to believe because our city never witnessed such hatred and protests “ said Rajesh  , a businessman and political observer.
 
 Like Virani, there are many who suspect some parties and people were behind the scene orchestrating the anti-government protests to create a create a picture there was general discontent against the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state. The national parties are hoping this public anger would turn against   and the BJP in 2019 elections.
 
 Asked about his party’s role in the protests, former MLA from North Nagpur and recently appointed chairman of SC department of the Congress,  , said the party had expressed its support to the agitation as the SC decision was against the Constitution. “At the national level, the Congress is holding its protests at Jantar Mantar in Delhi on Wednesday,” he said. The Congress is desperate to win back Dalits and minorities, the two sections whom they had alienated in the last few elections causing repeated electoral débâcles.
 
 Asked why the agitation when the Union government had on Monday itself moved a review petition in Supreme Court, Uttam Shevde of BSP said, “the anger was targeted against the apex court and people believe the court could not have given such a verdict without the government directions.”
 
 Meanwhile, intelligence agencies are looking into similarities of Dalit protest on Monday with that on January 3 when a state-wide bandh was observed to protest against Koregaon-Bhima incidents. The Jan 3 bandh, it is suspected, happened with the participation of urban Maoists.
 
 
