CHENNAI: When the 68th   kicks off at   here on Wednesday, it will be a great opportunity for a bunch of young girls from Tamil Nadu to make a mark. Much of Tamil Nadu's chances will depend on the sibling duo of S   and S  , both of whom play as pivots. TN women are drawn with Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka in Group A.

 Belonging to Nagapattinam district, the tournament will be their first together for the TN senior team and they can't wait to combine on court. "We have a very good chance of reaching the final. Apart from us, I feel Indian Railways are strong contenders. We are very motivated to do well and at least make the final. We normally make mistakes in the latter stages. We want to avoid that this time around," said Satya, who is the older of the two sisters.
 
 While this will be the second nationals for Satya, the 16-year-old Pushpa will be making her senior debut during the week-long tournament. Satya said the sisters took up the sport merely three to four years ago. "I started off playing netball when I was in standard XII," informed the 20-year-old Satya. "It was my netball coach who told me to go to the   (SAI) centre in Mayiladuthurai. They did not even have a women's basketball team then. But since I was tall, I was encouraged to take up basketball."
 
 Pushpa, the quieter of the two, duly followed in her sister's footsteps. "I encouraged her to attend basketball selection trials at SAI when she was 14. She was immediately selected and has improved leaps and bounds in a short span of time," added Satya.
 
 Shortly after the Nationals, Pushpa will travel to the US as India's sole representative for  's Basketball Without Borders initiative this year. While it is an exciting time for the whole family no doubt, there is also a sense of apprehension regarding the trip. "It will be my first time outside India. I'm aware it's a great opportunity to get exposure, but I'm also nervous and have no idea what to expect," admitted Pushpa, who represented India in the   U-16 Asian Championship a few months ago. 
 
 
