Nagpur: In a clear case of blatant violation of laws by law keepers themselves, some of the lawyers illegally took photographs of ballot papers from their mobile phones after using their franchise during the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa polls and sent them to their favourable contestants to show whom they had voted for. This happened despite the fact that mobiles phones were strictly prohibited from the place where polling was underway. Surprisingly, the District and Session Court administration, which was supposed to keep a close watch on the entire process, miserably failed to prevent such malpractices, raising several questions on its authenticity.  One of the photos also reached TOI where it was clearly seen that a voter doing favour to his “favourite” contestant from the city by giving him the first choice in the election. He gave three other preferences to the contestants outside the city. Every voter could cast his preference for any of 25 contestants out of 164.  According to some lawyers, such violations were reported from other major cities like Mumbai, Pune and others also. In fact, a lawyer from Mumbai informed TOI that he too was advised by a senior lawyer to vote for a particular candidate and send the photo of the ballot paper after using his franchise to the candidate. The young lawyer was asked by the senior to send the picture on his WhatsApp so that he could send it to candidate concerned. After this starling revelations, some lawyers told TOI that they had voted genuinely without any favouritism but when such things came to light, their belief was shattered. Bar Council secretary Pravin Ranpishe, however, said the council will act only after someone lodges complaint. “If complaint comes, we will put it before the committee of observers led by a retired judge. We had categorically told the court staff and polling agents to prohibit anyone carrying mobile phones inside the booths. But those directives were seemed to be ignored by them,” he said. Lamenting the incident, High Court Bar Association president Anil Kilor said lawyers shouldn’t have indulged in such violations as it would defeat the purpose of the elections. He, however, opposed punishment to those indulged in such illegal activities saying that their numbers were negligible. “At the most their votes should be declared invalid. Such things used to happen in general elections before the advent of electronic voting machines (EVMs).” Agreeing with him, even District Bar Association (DBA) president Prakash Jaiswal said elections shouldn’t be cancelled for few individuals, who brought bad name to the profession.  This is second controversy to hit the long-awaited polls, which were conducted after a delay. During polling day, mismanagement and poor arrangements marred the entire process where the voters faced severe hardships and delay while exercising their franchise. 