GURUGRAM: A crack team of MCG recently impounded a water tanker, carrying groundwater illegally extracted from Sector 53, during a surprise raid that once again trained focus on tanker mafia who continue to exploit fast-depleting water tables across Gurugram.

 Similar raids in Nathupur, Wazirabad, Sikanderpur, Chakkarpur and some other areas in the past couple of days, however, yielded nothing. But MCG officials promised more such impromptu raids in coming days to crack down on tanker mafia.
  
  
 “We received a tip-off about tankers extracting groundwater illegally for commercial use. We raided the area on Sunday and saw they were extracting water near one spot and then filling up the tanker. The use was clearly commercial, which is illegal. The administration may allow people to dig a bore well for domestic purpose under certain circumstances. But it requires permission from the deputy commissioner, which is only given after a committee examines and recommends the same,” said a senior MCG official.
 
 “We conducted surprise inspections in other areas too, but didn’t find anything there. However, we are going to be watchful,” he added.
 
 Sources said illegal extraction of groundwater continued in the city even as its water levels were depleting at an alarming rate. The city, with an estimated population of 20 lakh, needs 90 million gallons (MG) of water daily. While around 60 MG is supplied by  , the deficit 30MG is met by groundwater extracted through illegal bore wells. An estimate of the Centre for Science and Environment pegged the number of illegal bore wells at 20,000 in the city. Sources said tanker mafia had been cashing in on this situation with around 500 tankers illegally supply water across the city.
 
 For example, Sector 23A has been reeling under acute water shortage for the last three days apparently after the water pump catering to the area broke down, paving the way for tankers.
 
 Bhawani, RWA president, alleged that suddenly a large number of tankers had started flocking their area, which houses around 350 people. “In our lane alone, 7–8 tankers have arrived. A tanker carrying 2,000 litre of water costs anything between Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,500,” he claimed. 
 
 The sources further said tanker mafia always look for such crisis to fleece people. In fact, they often ‘manufacture’ such crisis. “There have been instances when such crises were made up to allow private tankers to come in,” said an official on condition of anonymity.
 
 In April, TOI reported about recurring water crisis in   2. Residents had alleged that they routinely faced such water supply problems and private tankers took advantage of the situation, charging anything between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,800.
 
 Officials said they had fined several vehicles involved in extraction and transportation of groundwater in the past, but not much seems to have changed on the ground.
 
 
