TRICHY: Nearly a year back, a 14-year-old boy from the city, who developed an altered/ abnormal behaviour, was taken to a private clinic for treatment. While prodding the student for the sudden change in his behaviour, the doctor came to know that the boy had been indulging in inhaling gutka along with paint thinner.

 Only then, director of   (TAARF), Dr G  , who was treating the boy, came to know about the prevalence of gutka-paint thinner inhalation among youngsters n the city. 
 
 Not only him, many other doctors also claimed that this alarming trend has become rampant among youngsters in   over the past one year.
 
 Doctors speaking at the World No Tobacco Day, which was observed on May 31 said that the practice of inhaling gutka along with paint thinner after a certain process is predominantly done by students between 15 to 17 years of age. The feeling of instant and prolonged high, affordability and availability of gutka are considered to be the reasons for teenagers resorting to this practice.
 
 “Over the past one year, I have got as many as five cases of gutka inhalation by school students,” said Kamal. “The ill-effects of inhaling gutka are more than that of its consumption and it directly affects the central nervous system. It not only causes adverse effects to the respiratory system, but also to mental health,” the asthma specialist warned.
 
 He claimed that most of the students -- mostly from lower socio-economic status -- get into the habit because of the fact that unlike smoking or tobacco consumption, the inhalation is tougher to detect by teachers or parents. To focus on this issue, the doctor, over the past few months, has been conducting awareness sessions at government schools in and around Trichy.
 
 On the other hand, medical oncologist Dr   said the availability of tobacco products in shops nearby schools and colleges are to be blamed for this trend. “Tobacco sales near schools and colleges have not been curbed in an effective manner. I wouldn’t say consumption of gutka is less dangerous than inhalation. While the former causes oral cancer, the latter causes lung cancer,” the oncologist added.
 
 A source from the   said that over the past one week, they conducted extensive raids at petty shops near schools and colleges to check for tobacco sales.
 
 
