KOLKATA: Chief minister   expressed her displeasure after the ministry of railways failed to allocate any sum for start of construction of four   extensions both within the city and on the suburbs for which surveys have been completed in 2017-18. She also accused the Centre of depriving the state by allocating less funds for ongoing projects like the Noapara-Dakshineswar link and the East-West corridor.

 "This is a clear example of discriminating against Bengal. Bengal was deprived of any new projects in the Union budget and now they have even reduced the allocation for the ongoing Metro projects. We are being deprived," she said.
 
  
  
 
 According to a senior   leader, the railways normally allots a small sum to a new project if it has to be kept alive. "The links between Diamond Harbour and Joka, New Garia and Baruipur, Barrackpore and Barasat and Kolkata Terminus to Korunamoyee would help people immensely and reduce pressure on road transport. After completion of surveys, the railways should have allotted some amount to them. We now feel that they have been scrapped altogether," he said.
 
 A railway official from New Delhi, however, said that no project has been scrapped. However, there are formalities to be completed even after surveys. Moreover, there is now a lot of discussion whether the railways should directly fund urban transportation projects or partner with private players.
 
 "At least two of the projects can only happen if the links till Joka, Barasat and Barrackpore are completed. Unless there is a Metro link to these locations, there is no use considering an extension. After the initial survey, there are many aspects that need to be studied before a project is finally sanctioned. At the moment, no project has been scrapped but it would not be possible for us to say when these projects will start," the official said.
 
 Another official pointed out that not all allocations for the state can be found in the Pink Book under the heads of particular zonal railways. For example, the railways has chosen Northern Railway as a nodal zone to handle the installation of escalators at all stations across the country that have a footfall of 25,000 or more per day. Similarly, several other passenger amenities are being handled by a nodal zone for the entire country. All states, including  , will benefit from them.
 
 
