NAGPUR: After successfully placing all students of its second batch, now the two and half years old IIM Nagpur, has set its sight on expansion. Currently, it's intake capacity is 60 for its flagship Post graduate Programme (PGP). The top-B school has also hiked its fees by Rs 50,000 from Rs11 lakh earlier, after achieving stupendous success of 100% placement of its second batch.

 
 "We're now ready for the expansion after filling up our faculty positions. The only constraint is space for accommodating infrastructure required for additional number of students like classrooms and hostels," IIM-N's Board of Governors (BOG) chairman CP Gurnani said.
 
 He was in city for attending second convocation ceremony of premier institution and was flanked by IIM Ahmedabad director Errol D'Souza, Aditya Birla Group executive president D Shivakumar, Essel group chairman Subhash Chandra, IIM-N director LS Murty and BOG members.
 
 Gurnani, the former   chief, said they were in talks with the administration of Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) administration for allotting them more space for creating additional infrastructure.
 
 Gurnani, also the CEO and managing director of  , however admitted the delay in creating infrastructure at its allotted land of 130 acres in Mihan. "We're certainly behind schedule. But with various boards and building panels in place, we plan to expedite the process. In today's board meeting, it was decided that the both panels would meet regularly, once in a month to monitor progress of the project."
 
 He added that they want to make IIM-N's Mihan campus as one of the world's best. "Mihan is beautiful place where the land was allocated to us. Probably, by July, we would be able to specify any dates about our new campus," he said.
 
 Earlier, D'Souza assured that the India's top B-school would continue to mentor the IIM-N in future as well.
 
 IIM-N director had already told TOI that they plan to shift by 2020 at their new premises in Mihan. He also declared that they would be starting a new area of specialization in 'cooperation and analytics' from next academic session (2018-19) for the students along with encouraging them in entrepreneurship modules.
 
 
 
 
 Total campus area - in Mihan
 
 Total land - 130 acres
 
 Status - Area secured by fence
 
 Proposed completion - in 2020
 
 Approximate cost - Rs 650 crore
 
 Facilities to be offered - Academic blocks consisting of classrooms, discussion places, faculty offices, administrative blocks comprising various offices, residential blocks, hostels and recreational places, managing development centres with classrooms and open spaces.
 
