Words can hit harder than actions and even more so when you're obese. For Souvik Bose, the motivation to   came only when a female colleague told him to go on a crash diet. Prior to this, Souvik had been body shamed many times, but this particular harsh remark made all the difference. However, Souvik took   in his stride and decided to 
  the healthy way. This is how he turned his fat self into a fit one.

 
 Souvik Bose
 
 
 Senior associate at TCS
 
 
  27
 
 
  112 Kgs
 
 
 34 Kgs
 
 
 1 year
 
 
 
 
 
 When a female colleague told me to go on a crash diet. That statement not only embarrassed me but also motivated me to lose weight.
 
 
 Plain oats with apple or cornflakes with double toned milk and 3 boiled eggs (whites only)
 
 
  100 grams of brown rice, masoor dal, green vegetables cooked in extra virgin olive oil, 100 grams of boiled chicken and green tea
 
 
 Vegetarian sandwich without mayonnaise
 
 
 Boiled green vegetables with a roti, curd and green tea
 
 
  I usually cheat during breakfast or lunch only. I love eating (in controlled quantities) foods such as kachoris, momos, tandoor chicken, parantha or home cooked chicken curry and some dessert. 
 
 
 I combine strength and cardio training for four days. For the rest of the two days, I focus only on cardio training. I go for a steam bath twice every week. I also cycle for 15 kilometres on rest days. 
 
 
 Oats or fruit salad or lots of green vegetables stir-fried in extra virgin olive oil or grilled brown bread sandwich with green veggies and without any mayonnaise or butter.
 
 
  Exercise daily and stop being a foodie. If you do not have time for gymming, squeeze in some other type of exercise such as jogging or cycling. Try and burn your daily calorie intake with exercise. Try to push yourself as much as you can to lose weight.
 
 
 
 I look into the mirror and remember my past, the rejections I faced and how hard I worked to change my physique.
 
 
 
 I remember how hard I have worked to achieve the physique I have today and how difficult it was to be overweight. I also think of all the times people mocked me for the way I looked.
 
 
 
 Your self-confidence is low, you cannot dress the way you like as they do not fit your size, you feel inactive, you get tired easily while walking, life becomes dull and you lose the courage to try anything.
 
 
 
 A lean muscular guy with a healthy lifestyle.
 
 
 
 I quit sugar, junk food, soft drinks, alcohol and my craze for food. I also slept for seven hours minimum and followed a strict diet with no long gaps between meals.
 
 
 
 When I saw a picture of myself with my family and I felt embarrassed.
 
 
 Get out of your comfort zone to achieve what you want. Being lazy or lethargic is only detrimental and helps in no way. 
 
 
 
 
