NAGPUR: People from various backgrounds and professionals tried their hand at fine wood crafting at a   organized at Maker’s Adda, AlagAngle Studio, Hazaripahad, on Sunday.

 AlagAngle (AA), a centre started with five individuals 12 years ago, provides space for artistic minds to develop their   into reality. Lalit Vikamshi, co-founder of AlagAngle said, “The workshop is open to all, regardless of age. New people have joined us to expand the workshop in the last six months.” 
 
 Maker’s Adda helps participants learn machine handling and other techniques that require specific skills. Vikamshi said, “With help and supervision of close friend Shirish Kaner, an industrial engineer, Maker’s Adda, a space for designs, crafting and anything that relates with making, was set up.”
 
 The participants had a great time learning carpentry skills at the workshop. Nikhil Lanjewar, who has been involved with Maker’s Adda right from the start, said, “The space was created to fill the gap between carpentry and artistic skill. The main motive of this workshop was to train artisans and interested individuals so that they can easily develop and shape their ideas. One can easily make out the difference in a product or structure created by an artisan and a carpenter.”
 
 Sushant Chandekar, another participant, said, “We were first introduced to the basic tools, ways to handle them and preventive measures. While making a bench with pine wood, we learnt how to take measurements, use of specific tools, and how to give finishing touches to the product.”
 
 Anshita Agrawal, interior and graphic designer, said, “The whole process of wood crafting was explained in an easy manner. We were guided about the cutting technique, the types of screws, saw and power tools to use. It was great experience.”
 
 Apart from the workshop, AlagAngle is all set to construct first underground mudhouse at the facility. “The mudhouse will be built with naturally available material to minimize heat absorption,” said Vaishali Ostwal, an architect. Along with the mudhouse, a mud oven and mud porch will be also constructed at the centre. 
 
 “Today, AA has become a home for many designers, prominent personalities of different fields,” said Tanul Vikamshi, co-founder of AA.
 
 (Reporting by Mrunalini Kohat)
 
 
