KARIMNAGAR: In another masterstroke to see that his TRS party rides piggyback on a massive vote corpus of 58 lakh   ahead of  , Telangana chief minister   on Thursday launched the much-touted   in   at   in Karimnagar district by giving away a cheque of Rs 4,000 per acre towards investment subsidy and pattadar passbook to Muvvala Sanjeeva Reddy, the first farmer to receive the sop. 

 Soon after kicking off the scheme, the CM claimed his Rythu Bandhu is a first-of-its-kind programme in the entire country, which is aimed at providing financial support to 58 lakh farmers to purchase seeds and fertilizers. But, it is also set to drain the state exchequer of Rs 12,000 crore every year. Over the next one week, cheques of 5,800 crore will be distributed to farmers in 10,800 villages. 
 
 While Rythu Bandhu can be seen as the much-needed balm for distressed farmers,  's decision to waive Rs 800 crore of water dues is also seen as another move to placate the farmers, a year ahead of the elections. Apart from Rs 4,000 an acre in the kharif season, the farmers will get another 4,000 per acre for the second crop in the rabi. 
 
 
 
 
 Over 430 tehsildar offices across Telangana will begin land registration from June 2, the CM said. This is apart from 141 sub-registrar offices that have been undertaking registration works. A property can be registered and mutation would be done then and there itself. Once done, property owners can get updated passbooks and record of rights (RoR) at their doorstep through courier. The chief minister announced Rs 5 lakh insurance cover to all farmers, effective from June 2.
 
 The chief minister urged the Centre to increase the minimum support price (MSP) for agriculture produce by at least 25 per cent over the existing price. “If the MSP of a crop is Rs 1,500 per quintal, it should be enhanced to Rs 2,000 per quintal. Similarly, the Mahatma Gandhi National Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) should be linked to agriculture,” KCR said and added a resolution would be passed urging that the Centre to bear 50 per cent of the agriculture labour expenses. He said the state government has successfully completed purification of land records under the land records updation programme (LRUP) and said of the total 2.90 crore acre land in the state, 2.30 crore acre land verification has been completed within 100 days. The updated records can be seen on Dharani land website soon.
 
 Launching a scathing attack on Congress leaders for criticising the Rythu Bandhu scheme, KCR said the Congress leaders were spreading lies. Finance minister Eatala Rajender, Karimnagar MP B Vinod Kumar, chief secretary SK Joshi, special chief secretary Rajeshwar Tiwari, principal secretary Partha Sarathi, agriculture commissioner Jaganmohan and director, chief commissioner of land administration, Vakati Karuna were present.
 
 
