KHAMANO ( ): An industrial unit in Fategarh Sahib’s Khamao town may just have a solution, that too a profitable one, to end   in Punjab. Balbir Singh Uppal-owned Lakshmi Energy and Foods Limited earned Rs 69 crore by selling power generated from crop residue in 2017. He expects a bigger turnover this year.

  started producing electricity from his biomass plant in 2008 and it now benefits 20,000 farmers. According to Uppal, crop residue, including stubble and husk, is used in his biomass plant for generating 30MW electricity. “After we started generating power, we signed a contract with the Union ministry of renewable energy to supply green power for 20 years. At present, we are using stubble, husk and other crop residues from around 20,000 farmers in the area for power generation,” says Uppal (63). “Farmers are happy to allow us to take stubble from their fields, as they don’t have to invest money in transportation or face government action for burning it. As power is generated using crop residue, there is no pollution. On the other hand, in case of thermal power generation, there is pollution due to burning of coal.”
 
 Uppal said he earned 30% profit from the Rs 69 crore, and he had been selling electricity to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) though through Khamano and Kohara grid stations. The industrialist said by using stubble for power generation, normally burnt by farmers, they were preventing pollution in their own way.
 
 Uppal said his company was now in talks with the government to introduce technology from Germany, Netherlands and the US. “To motivate farmers not to burn stubble, we are prepared to give them royalty for it,” he said.
 
 A farmer said he saved Rs 20,000 because Uppal collected the stubble and took it away. “I own 10 acres and, if I go for the legal way of disposing of stubble, pay around Rs 2,000 per acre. To avoid that expenditure, I would burn the crop residue till about a year ago, but with the fear of getting fined. Now, though, I don’t have to worry about it,” said  , a farmer of Khamano.
 
 Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chairperson Kahan Singh Pannu pollution caused by burning stubble would fall drastically if there were more like Uppal. “The industrial unit is doing a good job,” he said.
 
 The president of   and Commercial Undertakings (Cicu), Upkar Singh, said the government should promote more units like the one owned by Uppal. “It will help bring down pollution in Ludhiana during harvest season,” he said.
 
 HOW IT WORKS
 
 The work of generating power from stubble starts on the field. Machines owned by Uppal first go to the first and cut paddy straw into small pieces of two to three inches, and roll them into stacks
 
 The stacks are then transported to Uppal’s unit, where the stacks are unloaded and then processed in two boilers that handle 67 tonnes of stubble in an hour
 
 The heat generated then powers two turbines of 15.17MW each. The electricity generated form these turbines is then sold to PSPCL
 
 
