VISAKHAPATNAM: Scientists at the   ( )’s Vizag centre are apprehensive about the artificial interlinking of rivers. They feel diverting water for use during dry period and raising of dams will affect the   ecosystem by reducing fresh water discharge and may have a catastrophic impact in future. 

 Dams and   projects have been proposed on the rivers in AP-Telangana region, which will affect the   estuary ecosystem, they point out.
 
 NIO has been engaged in a research on how the variations of river discharge due to monsoon impact the estuary ecosystem. They found that during the times of   and   (natural periods of weak monsoon and diminished rainfall), the discharge or river water flowing to the estuary decreases by 30%. 
 
 An estuary is the tidal mouth of rivers, where river water meets the sea, creating a transition zone between riverine and marine environment. This naturally-caused diminished discharge in turn results in three-fold increase in harmful algae blooms that decreases oxygen and phytoplankton (fish feed) causing mass mortality of fish and aquatic creatures.
 
 In this context, NIO scientists point out that if natural phenomena like El Nino and IOD decrease the water discharge to the estuary and adversely affect the marine ecosystem, then man-made river inter-linking and dam construction projects would further reduce fresh water flow to the sea by diverting river water. Thus, the diminished discharge into the estuary would have a catastrophic impact, they say. NIO scientist V V S S Sarma, who heads the ongoing CSIR-NIO programme to assess the impact of monsoon failure on the estuary ecosystem, said: “We have been monitoring the impact of variations in discharge due to diminished/weak monsoon (El Nino/IOD effect) on the estuary for the last decade, and found that there is a 30% decrease in water discharge. It has also affected the mixing of high density sea water with low density fresh water in the estuary region. 
 
 “It was observed that during monsoon, there is a phytoplankton bloom which encourages more fish to come to the estuary. With the abundance of phytoplankton available, the fish breed, lay eggs and then go back to the sea. But when the estuarine discharge diminishes by 30% due to low rainfall, instead of phytoplankton, harmful algae bloom increases three-fold. These are toxic to the fish and blocks their gills, thereby killing the fish. When human beings eat these fish, it is harmful for them too. 
 
 “Though the algae dies in a day or two, the dead algae floats and removes oxygen from the water through bacterial decomposition of organic matter. It leads to mass mortality of fish and other marine creatures due to hypoxic condition. By taking up this project and monitoring, we could predict the future of fisheries in the region if monsoon fails and alert the fishermen beforehand so that they can take some alternative measures.”
 
 However, under this scenario, if dams are put across rivers or if rivers are interlinked and their water diverted elsewhere artificially, it would further decrease the discharge to the estuary in addition to decrease during poor monsoon. The world has had a bad experience when the estuary became a dead zone in Hudson river in the USA and river   in the Netherlands. 
 
 
