BHOPAL: A 35-year-old journalist investigating illegal sand mining cases in   district of Madhya Pradesh was run over by a truck under on Monday morning. Deceased identified as Sandeep Sharma, was working with a regional news channel.

 The death has sparked off political slugfest with the Congress party demanding a CBI probe into the matter and chief minister Shivraj Singh jumping in to defend his government and assuring that safety of journalists would be ensured at all costs. The Bhind Press Club has also demanded an impartial probe in the case.
 
 Sandeep had filed a complaint with the police citing immediate threat to his life from a police officer after a ‘sting operation’ against him.
 
 Sharma had filed a story accusing the officer of being hand in glove with the sand mafias. An audio conversation of the officer in question was aired by his channel after which the officer was transferred, said sources. 
 
 The incident took place just a few meters away from the Kotwali police station at 9 am when Sharma’s two-wheeler was hit by the truck from behind killing him on the spot. Police have cordoned off the area to arrest the dumper driver. The truck was found abandoned a few kilometres away.
 
 A CCTV footage that surfaced within a few minutes after the incident shows Sharma riding a motorbike which vanishes under a truck that mows him down on a busy stretch in the Bhind town.
 
 “CCTV footage shows the bike overtaking the dumper on the left and then turning to the right. Dumper driver would not have seen the bike till it swerved and came in front,” said a policeman wishing anonymity.
 
 
 
 
 Sharma is survived by his wife and two children aged 14 and 15 years. His brother was martyred fighting terrorists in Kashmir on April 22, 2004. 
 
 Sharma’s death triggered a panic among other journalists in the region. It is alleged that police responded after 15 to 20 minutes despite the spot being a few meters from the police station.
 
 District superintendent of police Prashant Khare has assured the local media in Bhind that he would investigate the matter from all angles and would leave no stone unturned to track the accused.
 
 Bhind Press Club president Sathyanarayan Sharma told TOI that Sharma’s death was suspicious and police should probe it thoroughly. “He was a brave journalist and taken on the mining mafias and filed several stories against them. He was facing threat from a police officer whom he had exposed a few months ago, and he had already complained about it to the SP citing threat to his life. Fact that the dumper was empty also gives rise to suspicion,” Sharma said adding the police officers have launched investigations. 
 
 Congress has demanded a CBI inquiry into Sharma’s death and chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said security of journalists was the government’s priority and strict action would be taken against the culprit.
 
 Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia also reacted strongly. “He was killed in broad daylight. Nothing less than a CBI inquiry would do. Media is the fourth pillar of democracy and it is being crushed under BJP rule,” Scindia said.
 
 Police have formed an SIT team to probe the death. The truck driver has reportedly been detained and is being interrogated.
 
 
