KOLKATA: Four prominent   under the Methodist Church are among the first in the city to take an undertaking from teachers, other staff and even vendors who have direct access of school premises to abide by provisions of the Protection of Child Rights and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) acts. 

 Calcutta Girls’ High School was the first to hold a session earlier this month, where all stakeholders were briefed and made aware of various provisions of the acts.
 
 The same process will be followed in three other schools under the Methodist Church: Calcutta Boys’ School, Methodist School in Dankuni and   in Darjeeling within a month, said sources.
 
 After holding the session, teachers, staff and vendors had to take a pledge, followed by an undertaking, that the training had enhanced their understanding of the value of children and “God’s plan” to protect them from all abuse they are vulnerable to. 
 
 In the pledge form, all stakeholders — more than 120 of them — were asked to sign under: “I do understand and subscribe to the code of conduct and statement of my commitment.” The pledge also stated that “Calcutta Girls’ High School is committed to protect the children and youth.” 
 
 Everyone associated with the school plays a vital role in creating and maintaining the institution as the safest possible learning environment for children and youth, it was mentioned in the form. “The stakeholders were asked to commit to and accept responsibility for helping prevent any kind of abuse of children or young people who are under their care and also within their reach at large,” said a school administrator.
 
 The undertaking asks teachers, staff and vendors to give their word saying they recognized all children and young people had the right to be free of abuse and that they were thus committed to educating students on the limits of acceptable and unacceptable behaviour. “Everyone associated with the school have been asked to respond swiftly and appropriately to all suspicions and allegations of abuse by providing parents and children with the opportunity to voice concerns they may have. Lastly, in the undertaking, all have been told to maintain confidential information of children or young people and to value children in a dignified manner,” the administrator added.
 
 Kamalaksha Sardar, secretary of Calcutta Christian School Society, pointed out during the session that anyone who had access to the school compound and children were made aware of the dos and don’ts. “We don’t want to end here. But we will organize a parent-orientation meeting, where guardians will also be made aware. The maximum abuse of children happens at home, and not at school. As we are teaching students about bad touch and good touch, we will explain ‘abuse indicators’ to parents,” Sardar added. The same session will be held in the other schools, followed by a signed undertaking in the same format. Vendors who supply laboratory materials, and all others associated with maintenance of campus and even those who help out in the school office have been made to sign the undertaking.
 
 Basanti Biswas, principal of Calcutta Girls’ High School, said: “The entire staff should be aware of the rights of children, what constitutes abuse and how to identify it. If workers attend such sessions, they have a sense of ownership towards the school and also get a feeling of shared responsibility.”
 
  will undertake the exercise for all its 800 employees spread across four schools and five other school branches in the state.
 
 
