On a chilly winter afternoon in Kolkata — the city he calls his second home — he greets you with a warm smile, all wrapped up in a black shawl. His spotless white kurta is as immaculate and beautiful as the notes he strikes on his sarod.  , along with son  , was in town to perform at two separate musical evenings. The maestro shares his thoughts on love, life and music…

 
 Kolkata is like my second home because most of my concerts take place in the city. Even my father used to spend a lot of time here. The longest performance of my life happened in this city, from 9 pm to 7 am. All three of us — Amaan,   and I — played one after the other at Kala Mandir. It was a ticketed concert. First Ayaan played for two hours, then Amaan for two and a half hours and then I came in. It was a heavy-dose concert for any audience, but Kolkata can absorb so much. There have been so many memorable concerts and every musician looks forward to coming to the city. 
 
 There is a change, a natural shift and I am happy that there is an audience for every genre of music. Whether it is ghazal, qawwali, bhajan or folk songs, this change is a natural phenomenon. It is a challenging time because there are 500 television channels now and you have a lot of options to listen to. But even then, 2,000-3,000 people also come to classical concerts. Here, presentation is the most important thing. How to present music? There was never a book on that. I wish there was one, which would guide us on which raga to play how long. The duration of a performance is sometimes too long. It all varies from musician to musician though. But at this time, one has to be precise and the sense of proportion is extremely important because people have limited time on their hands.
 
 A guru’s role is to teach grammar, literature and the fundamentals of music. But no guru can help you on stage. Whether it is the Indian or international audience, the presentation depends on the person on stage. He has to take the decision. Music should be appealing and interesting to everyone present in the audience.
 
 
 Being nominated for a Grammy or getting the award is great, but we don’t know what it is based on. All the musicians of the world are like one big family because we are all using the same seven notes. Music has always connected the world. It’s language that creates barriers. But we classical musicians are not trying to please the common man. We are committed to maintaining the purity and sanctity of the ragas. Perhaps yes, the Grammys are a good stage to popularise classical music. Whoever gets a Grammy is considered a good musician these days! But only the musician in question can understand how great he is (laughs). Kisi ko bhi Grammy mil jata hai, par uska base kya hai? Mujhe sunai diya hai ki the number of albums you sell is important. Quality ki koi baat hi nahin hai... yehi sachchayi hai. So, that’s the criteria.
 
 
 I made an album called Tribute to Tagore and it had 10 songs. Earlier, I never used to like Rabindrasangeet — because there were very few singers who could sing it well. Abhi aaj toh there are so many brilliant Rabindrasangeet singers. But 50 years back, it wasn’t so.
 
 
 Yes, yes. Now you have more trained voices. But Tagore took liberty in every raga and classical musicians were not happy about it. But I realised that he gave more importance to his poetry. According to the demand of the poetry, he moulded the ragas. He took the liberty and then I realised only geniuses can take liberties. Nahin toh humare desh mein har aadmi dara hua rehta hain ki log kya kehenge? Tagore dare nahin, unhone jo ichha wohi kari aur wohi meri bhi life ki bachpan se koshish rahi. Whatever I thought right, I went forward with it. I am very fortunate and it was a great honour performing with Suchitra Mitra.
 
 
 Yes, and he was very fond of my father’s sarod. My father told me that Tagore invited him twice. Unko alaap bahut pasand thi, Tagoreji ko. He was not fond of rhythm so much but alaap... melody. He was a melody man.
 
 
 He passed away. I often say this in my interviews that to understand the flavour of India is quite difficult. Your neighbouring countries cannot understand the bond that so many religions and communities in our country share. We always depend on each other. And this dependency is our strength. Amjad Ali Khan plays the sarod but who makes his sarod? Hemendra Chandra Sen. Agar woh achha nahin banayenge toh mein kaise bajaunga? It so happened that the day he died, I was in the city and the next morning I went to his house and offered flowers. There was some spiritual connection between him and my family. Best sitarmaker, best sarodmaker... all are in Kolkata. Even best tablapuri. So, the city is soaked in art and culture... the City of Joy as it is called.
 
 Yes, I saw her performance first in this city. We were invited for the same festival. The moment I saw her I felt as if God had sent her for me. I was mentally disturbed at that time. But then I approached her and the rest is history.
 
 Luckily, they are fond of music. I play Jingle bells for them, also Old McDonald’s. Sometimes they request me to play the raga Durga because they are fond of it. They have seen certain videos of our music... they love these, they enjoy music. Now it depends on my son Ayaan and daughter-in-law, whether they want to make them sarod players or lawyers or doctors.
 
 
 My grandchildren are enjoying listening to music now. This field has so many struggles, even today. There were struggles, there will be struggles. Amaan showed interest in music, Ayaan showed interest in music. My wife and I were both unemployed parents and so we could give them so much time. And I strongly feel if parents don’t have time for their children, they shouldn’t bring them into this world. It’s a sin, I think, that they are brought up in boarding schools or by caregivers. You know, love is the only healing factor. Everybody boasts of education but it can’t create compassion and kindness in human beings. Aj bhi hum mazhab ke naam pe ek dusre ko maarte hain... I feel extremely sad.
 
 I think creative people should also consider the fact that through their work of art, religion is not hurt. I feel their creativity must be respected and they should enjoy freedom of expression but they should also be responsible.
 
 
 Ayaan and I are blessed to have been born in a family like ours. Criticism has always helped us improve, so we thank the ones who believed in us and also the ones who didn’t. My parents are my best critics and without their guidance it wouldn’t have been possible to reach wherever I am today. They are also my best friends because, to start with, they never let me down and always help me grow. In the 25 years of my journey, I’ve learnt that the only things that help you pull through are hard work and humility. If you see the graph of any musician, up, down or stable, it’s basically to do with these two qualities. I believe we create our own destiny. Taking birth in such a renowned family definitely got me a lot of mileage and the head start that’s important to get noticed. But once that’s done you have to prove your worth. When people without a musical background make it big, they overcome a bigger challenge than us. But the sad part is people with famous parents face more criticism for no reason. It’s important to judge people not by their journey but by their destination. At 40, I feel I’ve just started. I was enjoying music before this but now I understand the intricacies of the notes better. I think musicians start evolving after the age of 35. Some are child prodigies but I don’t know how many are able to live up to that. Not to sound like a failure, but I can’t be Amjad Ali Khan. He’s a legend. People can make a living just by imitating him — that’s his stature. I just try not to become the reason for his embarrassment. People like him are born stars; they’ve never seen lows in their career. Preserving the Bangash tradition is my responsibility. My father always asks me to listen to all musicians. A good musician who wants to get better with time should respect all forms of music.
 
 
