MOHALI: It has already been over four months since Greater Mohali Area Development Authority ( ) missed the December 2017 deadline set by Punjab Chief Minister Captain   to make the airport road motorable. But, the single lane that has recently been opened for traffic is also giving bumpy rides due to uneven patch work. 

 The repair is marred with uneven patchworks occuring at regular intervals thereby hampering the smooth drive. TOI reached ground zero and plied a vehicle on the road. The inference drawn that patchwork was not even and was giving constant jerks during the drive.
 
 Ravi Bhagat, chief administrator of GMADA, said, "We have opened one-way of the airport road which directs traffic towards Landran-Banur T point. The portion of the road is complete in all respects and work on other portion is underway."
 
 However, he refused to comment on the uneven patch work and said that the chief engineer of Gmada is answerable for the same.
 
 Sunil Kansal, chief engineer while reasoning, said, "We opened the one lane of the road on which repair works was complete. These other portion of the road will also be opened for traffic to check the actual load-bearing capacity. Thereafter, the entire portion will be re-carpeted to give a smooth drive."
 
 "The other half of the road is under repairs and will likely be made operational by the end of May. The road has been dug up at 40 to 50 points measuring 50 meters and around 3 feet deep to lay the foundation again before re-carpeting the road. At other places, the potholes will be patched and the cracks will be sealed as per the specifications of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (India) and Central Road Research Institute recommendations.
 
 The experts at Punjab Engineering College (PEC) believe that the road must be re-carpeted after patchwork taking a horizontal plain in level before throwing open for vehicular traffic. Haramrit Singh Sandhu, professor at PEC, said, "The drive must not be bumpy after road has be re-constructed. If the road is not re-carpeted with inclination towards the storm water drainage after repairs, it will get damaged again."
 
  Gmada calls on central institute experts 
 
 Gmada called on experts of Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) asking them for suggestions to repair the airport road. The investigation was handed over to CRRI in February 2017 which followed a report submitted on July 4, 2017 and the same was examined by Gmada engineers, who conveyed the observations to CRRI on July 21, 2017. The findings were related to co-relation of the executed work with the design of the road and traffic volume survey conducted by CRRI, highlighting the major cause of failure of roads and basis of suggestion of remedial measures.
 
 A CRRI team, along with the top brass of the State Vigilance Bureau, visited Mohali in September 2017 to inspect various stretches of damaged roads, which were constructed during the previous regime. The team has collected three more samples - from PR-9 road from badly damaged Airport Chowk to   and a sample each from TDI road,   and NH-64 to NH-22 Road.
 
 
