BENGALURU: The   pulled up   and   for withholding results of a 23-year-old postgraduate student, who couldn’t submit his dissertation on time. The student revealed he had to undergo treatment for a medical condition and, therefore, missed the deadline.

 Prasanth Singh, a student of Garden City College and native of Uttar Pradesh, had cleared the written examinations of all four semesters in 2014, but did not submit a dissertation and complete the viva voce. A Bangalore University (BU) rule mandates all students must submit their dissertation before commencement of the final exam in the fourth semester to be eligible for a certificate. The university withheld Singh’s results.
 
 When BU refused to announce his results, Singh approached the court in August 2017, stating he was undergoing treatment for a neurological condition in 2014 and couldn’t submit his dissertation on time. He furnished medical records issued by Anand Hospital, Allahabad, which stated that he was undergoing treatment for acute prolapsed inter vertebral disc (PIVD) since 2014.
 
 The medical certificate issued on June 24, 2017 confirmed Singh’s condition and stated that he was improving. Singh claimed the authorities hadn’t asked him to re-submit his dissertation and there was no response to his subsequent representations. He pleaded with the court to direct BU to accept his dissertation.
 
 Justice Vineet Kothari, who heard Singh’s plea, pulled up the college and the varsity. “This typical bureaucratic attitude on the part of the college and university deserves to be strongly deprecated,” he stated. “These institutions are meant to serve the cause of education of students and not create hurdles in their progress. Though students are expected to submit their dissertations on time, there is no hard and fast rule.”
 
 Justice Kothari said authorities are “expected to relax the conditions to meet the ends of justice in peculiar facts and circumstances”.
 
 The court granted Singh a month’s time to complete the dissertation and directed the varsity to declare his results within three months. 
 
 
 
 
