KOZHIKODE: Kerala water authority ( ) will begin the first phase work of replacing four-decade-old worn-out   that were passing through the city corporation limit by the month-end. 

 The project has been proposed under the water supply component of the Union government-aided Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) scheme.
 
 KWA will   old AC pipes with PVC pipes that are having more than 25 years of warranty period. 
 
 The project aims to put an end to the existing huge distribution loss of water, which amounts to around 40% of the total water supply per day. 
 
 KWA will carry out works at a cost of Rs 96.5 crore in four phases. 
 
 Works including replacement of existing old pipes and valves and interconnection with existing lines will be carried at a cost of Rs 17.87 crore in the first phase. Fixing water meters and construction of valve chambers for the existing lines will also be carried out in the first phase. 
 
 In the second phase, pipe replacement work will be carried out at a cost of Rs 14.63 crore. In the third phase, Rs 17.5 crore will be used to strengthen water supply and to replace pump sets at the pumping stations. 
 
 In the fourth phase, Rs 46.5 crore will be utilized to extend KWA distribution lines in the corporation areas. The last phase will witness extension of KWA pipelines in the merged 20 wards situated in the limits of old Elathur, Beypore and Cheruvannur Nallalam grama panchayats and other corporation areas where KWA pipelines are not yet reached. 
 
 P Santhosh Kumar, executive engineer of KWA (Kozhikode PH division), said that KWA has awarded seven works to the contractor in the first phase. 
 
 “The remaining works will be awarded in the coming week. The existing pipes in the corporation limit were laid four decades ago and recurring pipe burst results in distribution loss. New pipelines will be laid adjacent to the existing pipelines on either side of roads to avoid drinking water regulation to consumers. Old pipes will be removed once KWA begins distribution of drinking water on the newly-laid distribution lines,’’ he added.
 
 The works will be completed before the commencement of monsoon, he added.
 
