GURUGRAM: The Haryana government has finally awarded Rites Limited a Rs 1.61 crore contract to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) of the   route from Huda City Centre to Gurugram railway station. The   is likely to be submitted to the government by September this year. 

 “The Haryana Mass Rapid Transit Corporation (HMRTC), in a letter dated March 22, has conveyed to us that the state government has approved the metro route alignment from Huda City Centre to Gurugram railway station. Following this decision, Rites has been engaged to prepare the DPR. The study will cost Rs 9.5 lakh per kilometre for the 17km stret ch. Rites has been given six months to submit the report,” said a senior district official.
 
 
  
 “The DPR will contain exact locations of metro stations, depot, alignment, total land required, etc, for this project. The route approved by the state government will start from Huda City Centre — currently the terminal station on the Yellow line — and go via Subhash Chowk, Hero Honda Chowk, Sector 37 and Sector 4, before terminating at Gurugram railway station,” the official said.
 
 However, there is no word yet on the much-needed metro route to link Dwarka with Gurugram, as the   government feels the route (Iffco Chowk to Dwarka Sector 21) proposed by   (DMRC) is unviable. Earlier in January 2017,   had submitted a feasibility report to link Gurugram and Dwarka by a metro route.
 
 “DMRC’s feasibility report had suggested a metro link starting from Iffco Chowk, passing through Palam Vihar and Bijwasan to the existing Dwarka Sector 21 metro station. 
 
 “However, chief minister   feels this route will not be financially viable, as there won’t be many commuters using it. Therefore, this plan has been shelved. In the days to come, there are plans to extend the Huda City Centre to Gurugram railway station route to Dwarka. However, this is likely to take more time,” said a HMRTC official.
 
 Gurugram MP  , meanwhile, insists a metro route to link Gurugram with IGI Airport is being planned. “There are a number of people living in Gurugram who travel to the airport frequently, and there is a need to connect the heart of the city with the IGI airport. We are proposing a route to link Gurugram directly with it. Commuters will be able to travel further from the IGI airport using the Airport Express line, to destinations like Dhaula Kuan, Connaught Place, etc, and also use the interchange stations on this line to reach areas like Punjabi Bagh and Noida,” he said.
 
 
