CHENNAI: Over the past week,   rebel leader and independent MLA from R K Nagar, T T V Dhinakaran had made several statements – from announcing the name of his party to keeping all options open. Launching a political forum as a temporary measure to bring his supporters under a state-wide common umbrella is also one of the options.

 But, a week had passed without him taking any firm decision on this front. Sooner or later, he has to take a call and come out of this dilemma, if he has to keep the R K Nagar victory momentum going. In the meantime, the ruling AIADMK continued to expel TTV’s supporters from the party, with over 150 from Villupuram and   districts expelled on Sunday.
 
 “With the   taking its own time to pass orders on internal issues of political parties, opting to launch a new party looks the best option for TTV. But, the pending case in   regarding the 18 disqualified MLAs, who are his supporters, and to safeguard their status is a key issue that is delaying his decision,” a TTV camp insider said.
 
 “Hence, it was decided last week to put off a decision until the verdict is out. Launching a forum too is an option that continues to be there. Alternately, we also understand that it will hardly take a week or so to launch a party, if the local body elections are announced soon,” the insider added.
 
 Preserving the status of his support group of MLAs is a primary concern. That was also one of the reasons, why TTV Camp supporter and disqualified MLA,   told reporters last week that he will not be in a position to join TTV, if the latter launches a new party.
 
 “TTV is clear on what he wants to do. One need not wait so long for local body polls to be announced. He will announce his plans very soon, over the next week to ten days. It is only a matter of days now,” said another disqualified MLA and TTV supporter.
 
 
 
 
 T T V Dhinakaran on Sunday said he had already opposed the 100% increase in the salary of MLAs. “I have made it clear that I will not accept the increased part of the salary. While the common public have been burdened with steep increase in bus fare, the EPS government is taking care of MLAs to retain power,” TTV said. His camp will hold protests across the state on January 31against increase in bus fares.
 
 
