CHANDIGARH: If India is all set to get its first women fighter pilots, some credit goes to  , 51, who became the Army's first woman cadet in 1992. In fact, she may well be responsible for planting the idea of creating space for women in this densely populated male bastion in the top management of the armed forces. 

 As a spunky young lady in college, Jhingan had written a letter to the then Army chief,  , saying it was about time women were allowed to don the fatigues and that the restriction on women joining the defence forces should be removed. 
 
  
  
 
 General Rodrigues had replied that the Army needed enthusiastic women like her and assured her to do something on her suggestion. Four years on, the Army opened its gates to women. Jhingan was selected along with 24 other women and was allotted lady cadet number 0001 in the Officers' Training academy at Chennai. Jhingan feels even today, many women want to join the Army but are afraid of the resistance that they will have to face. The former officer, who is presently teaching at one of the prestigious boarding schools in  , says, "It is time for men to accept women as officers. Once that happens, I am certain women will be considered for combat roles." 
 
  
  
 
  "My parents never showed any resistance or doubt in my dream but I was recently told that they were scared when I was to go all by myself from Shimla (my home town) to the training academy in Chennai," she told TOI. 
 
 I am told that they didn’t sleep that night but they showed no signs of their fears to me. I would not have been able to do this without their support.”
 
 At the same time, she does have a word of advice for parents. “They need to stop discriminating between the roles played by a boy and a girl,” she says. “If a girl feels fearless and unrestricted in her environment, she will blossom and flourish, but if her brother and
 
 parents teach her to be fearful and timid, that is how she will be. Let the little girl dream and help her live her dreams by encouraging her, supporting her decisions, thus empowering her to be what she was born to be.
 
 Talking about her early days, she says she was unaffected by the reactions of her male counterparts in the academy. “I just felt I was capable as much as anyone and perhaps I was so enamored with the fact that my dream had come true I didn’t bother about such a philosophy,” she says. “The male cadets treated us just like they treated their own batch mates, rebuked, praised and advised, as required.”
 
 She even rejects the belief that women are given more ceremonial duties in the army. “It is an absolute myth. The workload is shared equally. I was in the Judge Advocate General's department and was assigned to conduct as many court martials as my male counterparts.”
 
 On women, in many professions, dropping out once they start a family, she says, “Indian women have a strong sense of duty and sacrifice. Many a times, when they start a family they are compelled to perform their marital duties meticulously and thus sacrifice their job. I think we don't need to control this, as it is a very personal decision any woman takes depending on her circumstances. The same is applicable to women across the board; 25 of us were commissioned in the first batch and after 10 years, less than 10 of them were serving.”
 
  
 
