

 'Padman' is inspired by the life of Arunachalam Muruganantham, an Indian entrepreneur who invented the low-cost sanitary pad making machine and revolutionised the movement of cost-effective female hygiene in the country. 
 The biographical comedy-drama by R Balki, based on 'The Sanitary Man of Sacred Land', a short story by Twinkle Khanna, stars Akshay Kumar, Sonam Kapoor and Radhika Apte. 
 Two songs of this five-song album are already on the charts. The first, 'Aaj Se Teri' begins with a long prelude of shehnai by Omkar Dhumal, following which Arijit Singh’s soft, mellow voice takes over. This song has refused to budge from the Mirchi Top 20 charts since the last four weeks. The very relatable and sensitive lyrics of this semi-classical track makes it one of those rustic love songs with small-town flavour, that you are bound to count it among the top romantic songs of this year. It can definitely be counted among Kausar Munir’s best works.
  owns the next one — 'The Padman Song' — and Amit’s dexterous play with the soundscape gives this track a boost and completely does justice as a title song. This track debuted on the charts last week and is already climbing. With the chorus, ‘superhero, superhero’ sung by vocalists Pragati Joshi, Deepti Rege and Mayuri Kudalkar, this track is an earworm. 
 The next, 'Hu Ba Hu', sung by the composer (Amit) reminds you of his classic score in 'Dev D'. The pop-rock fusion genre of music in this track is a hybrid of pop music and rock and has good backing vocals by Rajiv Sundaresan and Suhas Sawant. Amit uses the catchy pop style, with Kausar Munir’s light lyrics along with guitars, drums, and propulsive rhythms.
  renders 'Saale Sapne' in his own signature, inimitable style of the absolute rock star that he is. The lyrics (Kausar’s) steal the show here with, ‘Haan maine chand ko churake, Maine loriyaan sunake, Maine khud ko tha sulaya, So ja…, Par tunne battiyaan jala di, Tunne dhajiyaan udda di, Tunne neend se uthaya, Abbe saale sapne’. 
 A bevy of singers including Yashita Sharma, Jonita Gandhi, Yashika Sikka and Rani Kaur render Sayaani ably. Overall, this   bouquet of situational songs makes this album a winner. 
 
