NAGPUR: Even though one   (STP) having a capacity of 130 million litres per day (MLD) is functioning and another 200 MLD will be commissioned soon, sewage is still flowing in Nag River. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has therefore decided to build a third STP or augment the capacity of the second one.

 A source in the NMC said that the state government had made it clear to National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) that it will not get much raw water from   for its 2,320MW Mouda plant. “Some operations of thermal plant have to be done by using raw water but tertiary treated waste water can be used for most operations. We expect NTPC to approach us soon,” he added.
 
 NMC and Mahagenco had constructed a 130 MLD STP at Bhandewadi. The tertiary treated waste water is supplied to Koradi thermal power station (KTPS) of Mahagenco. Agreement has been signed between Mahagenco, NMC and its concessionaire for sale of another 150 MLD from the 200 MLD underconstruction STP. This leaves 50 MLD treated water unsold.
 
 “Even when both the STPs become functional, Nag river still would have 100 MLD untreated sewage. If zero pollution load is to be achieved another 100 MLD plant will have to set up,” said the source.
 
 According to the official, NMC will first ask the concessionaire for the 200 MLD STP to augment the capacity of its plant by another 100 MLD. “We will ask it to be done at 2014 prices. If he agrees, it will be great otherwise we will go in for tender process. This will, however, delay the project by a year,” he further said.
 
 The NTPC had been approached by NMC for sale of water from the 200 MLD plant. “However, unlike Mahagenco, the central entity refused to bear the cost of the STP. Moreover, Koradi is not very far from Bhandewadi. But Mouda is 35km from the STP. NTPC was therefore reluctant to use treated water. However, now chief minister   and state energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule have told the central entity in no uncertain terms that it will have buy water from NMC. We expect them to approach us very soon,” the official said.
 
 According to the official, it would be a win-win situation for NMC when the third STP was constructed for NTPC. “At present we are getting Rs15 crore from Mahagenco. When the third STP is completed our revenue will increase to around Rs50 crore per year. The cost of our STPs will be recovered from royalty,” he said.
 
 
