CHENNAI: In an attempt to crack down on malpractices associated with the post-matric   scheme for SC/ST students, the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment has revised the norms under which the scheme operates.

 
 Institutions failing to ensure that at least 50% of the beneficiaries are promoted to the next level will be blacklisted from the scheme in subsequent years and can no longer apply for funds. This is to ensure that colleges do not fail students deliberately to continue receiving the scholarship, as was the case with some state institutions. The amount will be transferred directly to the students’ bank accounts.
 
 TOI had reported on April 26 that 960 educational institutions, including 100 engineering and medical colleges, submitted 20 types of fake records to claim scholarships intended for dalit and tribal students.
 
 In TN, scholarship scheme has benefited 4.6L students
 
 College managements misappropriated funds worth ₹45 crore by submitting application forms for dropouts and others who were no longer part of the attendance roll.
 
 A senior official from the   adi dravida and tribal welfare department, the agency responsible for implementing the scheme, said the state might not adopt the revised guidelines rightaway.
 
 Hundreds of genuine SC/ ST candidates who end up joining the blacklisted institutions through government counselling or entrance tests may be affected if we implement the scheme as per the revised guidelines, the official added.
 
 “Discussions will be held with various stakeholders before taking a decision on implementing it from next year,” he said.
 
 The scholarship consists of two components — tuition fees and maintenance amount of which the former was transferred to the institutes’ bank accounts while the latter was reportedly distributed directly to the students. As per the revised guidelines, the entire amount will be directly transferred to the students’ accounts to prevent institutes from misusing the funds.
 
 Nearly 2,300 multiple fake entries were found when authorities cross-checked the records of colleges across Tamil Nadu, with thousands of bank accounts being used repeatedly (some up to 70 times) to receive the scholarship amount.
 
 The Tamil Nadu government had consequently slashed the scholarship amount by nearly one-third last year.
 
 Besides this, changes were reportedly made in the Electronic Clearance System, a web-based application launched to make the transactions digital, and bank accounts were linked to   cards to track misuse.
 
 The scheme aimed at helping SC/ST students whose annual family income is less than ₹2.5 lakh has benefited more than 4.6 lakh students from the state.
 
