
CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh   Association (CCA) honorary secretary Vipnesh Bhardwaj has to hunt for a chat room in the Sector 32 GGD SD College. Ask him: “Where’s your office, Sir?” and he says: “We don’t have one.”
 
 Bhardwaj teaches geography in Canada’s University of Fraser Valley classes of which take place in the college. Along with him, even the parents of the players are tired writing to the UT Administration for proper infrastructure. The logic of the officials is that chess is not an Olympic sport and there is no grading system in it (it was abolished in 2007).
 
  
  
 
 Juhi Goyal, mother of Chandigarh chess prodigies Tarini and Arunima, had told TOI in an earlier interview: “Chess players from other states are aided by corporate houses and sport associations. They don’t have to worry about their tickets, accommodation, and food, while participating in a tournament. The chess associations of Delhi and Maharashtra go the extra mile to help their players.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Chandigarh Chess Association has been facing these adversities since 1986, when enthusiasts such as Bhardwaj, Anil Raina, and A P Aggarwal came together to form it. Registered with the UT Administration in 1989, it got the All India Chess Federation (AICF) affiliation in 1991. Despite the challenges, it holds 17 tournaments a year.
 
 St Xavier’s Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, is the lone venue. “The school authorities have been kind enough to help,” Bhardwaj said. “We were asked to vacate the basement of the Sector 42 stadium first and then its badminton hall. We are desperate for a new place.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Besides the tournaments for boys and girls under the age of 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, and 19, the CCA also holds a Youth Open Championship and matches for senior men and women. In a couple of categories, girls can compete with boys.
 
 From Rs 50, the entry free went up to Rs 450. “Our tournaments are during the summer holidays in schools,” Bhardwaj said. Top two players from each category, barring under-15 and under-19, advance to the state tournaments, where top four each from boys and girls make it to the nationals. The top 4 from the youth championship also qualify for national competition.
 
 “The national players earn the CCA T-shirt, entry fees and free travel,” said Bhardwaj. The association sends an average of 300 players a year to tournaments outside. Its two bodies—Chandigarh Chess Academy and Chandigarh Chess Club—train players, besides holding various championships.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 CCA vice-president and chess coach Naveen Bansal says the association has groomed many talented players despite all odds. Bansal, who trained Himal Gusain, first international master (IM) from Chandigarh, speaks highly of the 24-year-old wizard who has the potential to become a grandmaster.
 
 Goyal sisters Tarini and Arunima are also star products of the association. With an Elo rating (named after Hungarian-born American physicist Arpad Elo) of 2130, Tarini is just 70 points short of an IM norm. Elder sister Arunima has 1615 Elo points.
 
 Tarini won the bronze medal in the rapid format of the 2013   in Sari, Iran. She also won the gold medal in the blitz format of the 2012 Asian Schools Championship in New Delhi, where Arunima won the bronze.
 
 
 
 Both Bhardwaj and Bansal say that talented players need sponsors and more tournaments to improve. “If we can find sponsors, scouting for talent wouldn’t be difficult,” Bansal said. The 2016 cash-prize tournaments (for Rs 3 lakh in January and for Rs 5 lakh in December) were a huge success. “Both were sponsored by Chitkara International School, Sector 25 West” Bansal said.
 
 Children from all economic backgrounds are interested in the sport. The CCA is trying to identify them and provide them with a platform. “Chess is popular in the country, and if it gets more sponsors, its future in India can be bright,” coach Bansal said.
 
 Bhardwaj looks to the UT Administration for help “so that all this scurrying for a general-body-meeting venue can stop”. “The administration should bail us out for the sake of chess talent in this city,” he said. 
 
 
 
