MYSURU: Accusing the   of going soft on the killers of  ,   on Friday reiterated that the party’s   will be one of its election planks.

 Raju was standing near Netaji Circle in Mysuru when a group of bikers attacked him with sickles in 2016. He died on the spot. “I strongly condemn the acts of violence against RSS and BJP activists in Karnataka after the Siddaramaiah government came to power. There is no room for violence in politics,” Shah said.
 
 Shah visited Raju’s house in Kyathamaranahalli, a communally sensitive region, in northeast Mysuru. His visit comes in the backdrop of his going to the spot where Vishwanath Shetty was murdered in Shivamogga city, where a mega rally was held earlier this week.
 
 Stating that Hindutva will be an issue in the elections, Shah said: “If Siddaramaiah and the Congress believe that by using violence they can stop the flow of our ideology, then they are living in a dream world.”
 
 He said the modus operandi employed for 22 of the 24 murders of Hindu activists was similar to that of Raju’s, whom he called a “youth icon”. But the state police has not brought the culprits to book, he claimed.
 
 On the Congress government withdrawing cases against Popular Front of India (PFI) and KFD as being the prime reason for “encouraging” the killings, Shah said the killers are roaming freely. “Today, by withdrawing cases, going slow on prosecution and helping them evade the law, the killers are being encouraged,” Shah maintained.
 
 “I want to tell the people and our workers that the countdown for the Siddaramaiah government has begun and when we come to power, the killers will be hunted from pathal (underground) and put behind bars,” he said.
 
 STREETS DESERTED
 Roads leading to Raju’s residence in Kyathamaranahalli wore a deserted look till BJP chief Amit Shah completed his visit on Friday.
 
 A shopkeeper attributed it to police restrictions in Kyathamaranahlli, a communally sensitive region of Mysuru. Ahead of Shah’s visit, police controlled the entry of vehicles till mid-day and cordoned off two streets, leading to a ‘curfew like’ situation there.
 
