BHOPAL:  , 55, a terminally ill   gas disaster survivor, requires Botox injection every six months to keep her going. Getting this injection costing Rs 32,000 was not a problem for her. Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC), where she is being treated, used to provide her medicines and injections free-of-cost.

 But, situation has changed of late. After she didn’t get the injection from hospital, she went to everyone – director of the hospital to social activists to members of gas relief committee but received no help until Justice V K Agrawal, chairman of monitoring committee constituted by the  , came to her rescue. He asked gas relief department to arrange for purchase of her injection.
 
 The monitoring committee was constituted by the Supreme Court to oversee medical treatment of gas disaster survivors much in the same way as it mandated construction of BMHRC for best possible medical care of gas disaster survivors free of cost. In this case, monitoring committee did its job but despite pressure, BMHRC administration failed to meet its obligation – providing free medicines to Tolani- gas disaster survivor.
 
 And, Tolani is not the only gas survivor refused medicine/injection at BMHRC. It is a common occurrence at the hospital now.
 
 Justice Agrawal, when asked why there is shortage of medicines at BMHRC, said “director of the hospital has told me that her powers to purchase medicines has been drastically curtailed. We shall include this issue in our quarterly report which we shall submit before the M P high court. We are accountable to the court and we shall recommend to it that her powers regarding purchase of medicines must be enhanced so that drugs remain available at the hospital for the gas disaster survivors all the time”
 
 He also admitted to the fact that on occasions, he had to personally intervene to ensure that requisite medicines are provided to a gas disaster survivor. “Yes, it has happened. But, it’s responsibility of the director to provide medicines to patients and she should be equipped to do the job,” he said.
 
 Hospital sources said the problem arose after department of health & research (DHR), government of India, largely scrapped the system of local purchase of medicines by the hospital administration.
 
 Tenders floated for purchase of medicines are sent to DHR for approval. The procedure takes time and by the time proposal is approved, hospital runs out of medicines. “System of local purchase has been scrapped and DHR takes time approving tenders for purchase of medicines, which is leading to crisis of medicines for passengers”, said a BMHRC staff on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Besides, DHR has also implemented a rule applicable in other DHR-run hospitals. According to this rule, only those medicines could be purchased by a hospital, which have a shelf-life of at least 20 months if it has been manufactured two years ago, i.e. expiry date of medicine should be 20 months at the time it’s purchased.”
 
 This rule could well be enforced at   or Safdarjung Hospital because they don’t provide free medicines to all outdoor and indoor patients as we have to do but for us purchasing medicines which has an expiry date 20 months later or which has a shelf life of more than 80% is not feasible”, said a BMHRC doctor on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr Manisha Shrivastava refused to comment saying that only director was authorised to speak to the press.
 
 Acting director of the hospital Dr   did not reply to a phone call and SMS from TOI for her version.
 
 
