SURAT: Diamantaires in the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat are facing severe liquidity squeeze following lenders’ decision to tighten credit due to banking fraud masterminded by billionaire Nirav Modi. 

 The US-based   group stated that allegations that jewellery tycoon Nirav Modi had spearheaded a $2-billion fraud against India’s state-owned   fuelled concerns that lenders would tighten credit to the diamond sector. Other banks have already raised their collateral requirements, and the financial year that began on April 1 is likely to see a liquidity squeeze. Some large manufacturers with sizeable credit lines are facing greater scrutiny.
 
 Diamond manufacturers are also under pressure with regard to rough diamonds after De Beers raised prices by an estimated 3% in the first quarter. Cutters are protecting their profits with steady prices for polished diamonds and buyers have adapted to higher rates that emerged in January and February. Retailers are supporting demand by restocking after good US and Chinese holiday seasons, noted Rapaport. 
 
 Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) regional chairman Dinesh Navadiya said, “The liquidity crisis is going to impact diamond industry hard in the coming months. In the beginning of financial year, diamond unit owners are unable to get capital for purchasing raw materials. Private lenders in the industry are charging high interest rates, which small and medium diamond unit owners are unable to pay.” 
 
 Navadiya added, “The council has strongly made representation to the central government to advise banks not to take harsh measures against the industry in the wake of the banking scam involving Nirav Modi. The industry helps earn over 14% of foreign exchange for the government.” 
 
 Rapaport group stated that Hong Kong gems and jewellery show was slower than expected, but the outlook for China remains positive. Consumers have adjusted well to President Xi Jinping’s rule and are starting to spend again. Rapaport expects trading of polished diamonds to slow down in the coming months, as the second quarter is traditionally a quieter period for trade.
 
 
