MUMBAI: State transport minister and   chairman Diwakar Raote of   on Thursday announced that the state corporation will not press for “compensation” from bandh protesters despite 217 state buses being damaged and losses to the tune of Rs 20 crore to the government. The railways suffered a loss of Rs 3.40 crore.

 Raote said, “It is certainly a financial burden on MSRTC which had to incur a Rs 20 crore loss during Wednesday’s bandh. But keeping in mind the sentiments of protesters, we will not recover the losses from them. The corporation will bear all losses incurred during the bandh.” 
 
 This has raised eyebrows in political circles given that the Supreme Court had directed Shiv Sena and   to pay Rs 20 lakh fines each for calling for a bandh. Sena and BJP had gone to SC against a 2004 Bombay high court order which had directed them both to pay Rs 20 lakh each for causing public loss due to a bandh in Mumbai in 2003. They paid up.
 
 
  
 
 Raote also expressed “regret” on behalf of MSRTC for inconvenience to scores of commuters on the bandh day. Political analysts see this as a Sena attempt to ally with Dalits and emerge as a “sympathiser”. 
 
 At the same time, BEST, which runs 3,300 buses in Mumbai, has decided to press for damages for losses. Commuters will have to brace for a shortage of buses for a fortnight, with 286 being sent for repairs after being damaged on Wednesday. The undertaking is left with the lowest fleet of nearly 3,000 buses plying on the road, which will affect frequency of services and buses may arrive late, sources said. 
 
 A late night assessment of damages revealed that it was not only 90 buses, as reported by the PR department, but 204 which were damaged on Wednesday. “A total 286 buses, with 204 on Wednesday and 82 a day earlier, were damaged by stone-pelters in Mumbai,” said a senior BEST official. 
 
 “The losses include those due to damage done to buses and revenue loss from ticket sales,” said a transport wing official. He said daily bus earnings were close to Rs 3.5 crore but on the day of the bandh, BEST earned only Rs 1.37 crore, which is a drastic drop of around 60% in daily collections.
 
 Statistics provided by BEST authorities showed that 100 buses buses were attacked under the jurisdiction of big depots in Deonar, Vikhroli, Mankhurd and Shivaji Nagar. Most stone-pelting on buses was in these areas, apart from Marol, Malvani and Ghatkopar.
 
 The stone-pelters damaged bus windscreens, glass window panes, drivers’ cabins in few cases and they also targeted route indicator boards. Protesters also deflated tyres of some buses to ensure they were stranded, an official said, adding that it was “unwarranted”.
 
 The railways suffered a loss of Rs 3.40 crore, including Rs 70 lakh on WR due to loss of passengers due to the bandh on January 3. CR suffered an additional loss of Rs 15 lakh due to damage to property at Dombivli and Kanjurmarg.
 
 (With inputs from Swati Deshpande)
 
 
