MOHALI: Determined to stop stray cattle from ravaging parks and disrupting traffic, the municipal corporation has written to the senior superintendent of police ( ), recommending first-information reports (FIRs) against 149 dairy owners. 

 Municipal commissioner   said that on December 5 last year, 166 dairy owners had been issued notices in this regard under Section 188 of the Punjab Municipal Act. "Warnings were also issued not to let their cattle loose for grazing in the community parks," he said. The   continued to receive reports and complaints that some of the dairy owners had not let go of their habit of dumping   dung in  's sewers.
 
 Hans said: "We have asked the SSP to book 149 dairy owners who let their herds lose in the city after milking and dispose of cow dung in sewerage after diluting it with water. It keeps their sheds clean, while it creates a mess in the city by leading to the blocking of gutters. It causes back flow of sewage when it rains. The cattle owners were given 15 days of notice to stop the practice and when it was observed that they had not taken congnisance of it, the MC recommended the FIRs."
 
 The chronic problem of stray cattle is harming not only the city's cleanliness but also endangering the lives of the commuters. "We will start penalising the violators and, if required, also seal their cowsheds. They have been asked to declare the process of disposing of the cow dung. The system should not pollute the environment," Hans said. The Mohali municipal commissioner also said the MC wanted even those dairy owners booked whose herds were caught loitering in the city limits.
 
 During the last MC house meeting, mayor   had requested councillors to quit their "double standards" over the issue of dealing with stray cattle. He said: "In the house, all councillors ask for catching stray cattle but when a team goes over to do the job, they start making calling up officers and forcing the team to release the animals caught. We should abandon these double standards and contribute to the betterment of society."
 
 
