KOLKATA: Police is mulling to tackle rising crimes in the central business district by installing more   cameras. The traders have been asked to inform the cops of any suspicious movement and keep tabs on employees who quit jobs under questionable circumstances. “The thrust is on developing both technical prowess and human (beat policing) intelligence,” said an officer at Lalbazar. 

 Kolkata Police is planning to integrate all CCTV cameras —both government and private — across Posta and   to solve crimes by analysing real-time CCTV footages. The idea is to ensure that all footages are analysed in depth and each camera in the area is mapped, so that the cops can get technical help in the quickest possible time. 
 
 Similar efforts have already begun at Park Street,   and Bhowanipore. Live feeds will allow police to respond quickly, unlike now when private footages are scanned only after a crime is commissioned.   secretary Harish Soni said they have not been approached by the police about the integration yet. However, there have been several meetings on how security can be increased in the area following three crimes reported from — Posta, Burrabazar and   — since last year. 
 
 A member of Posta Bazar Merchants’ Association said: “This is the fourth time in the last 18 months that an office in the area was targeted. We are ready to cooperate, provided they don’t allow a repeat incident.” Sources said the association got 46 CCTV cameras installed on the   stretch, besides the 15 maintained by the police. Police said it is important to bring private CCTVs in commercial areas under police purview. 
 
 “We want to bring down all forms of crimes . While Kolkata — where 50% of thefts are committed by employees and servants — still has an aversion in getting their staffers verified, CCTV footages have helped us collate records and make arrests. Snatching, too, has seen a sharp dip,” said an officer at Lalbazar. Each cop will have an app that will lead them to the nearest CCTV from crime spot as soon as they begin investigation, said a source.
