KALABURAGI: Temple visits are crowd pullers, and   and BJP leaders seem to be in competition to visit temples and other religious places of worship.

 After Congress president   Gandhi’s successful temple run in Hyderabad-Karnataka region during the first leg of his Janashirvad Yatra last week, BJP national president   on Sunday visited South India’s famous Gurudwara in Bidar, besides visiting Buddha Vihara and Veerabhadreshwara temple in the district.
  
 He visited the Gurudwara with wife Sonal Shah, wearing the pagadi (traditional cloth wrapped on the head before entering) and tasted the water at Amruth Kund. The temple authorities, who explained to Shah about the importance of the place, gifted him a traditional sword. Shah penned his opinion in the record book before proceeding to Rekulagi village to visit the Buddha Vihara. There, he meditated for a while and garlanded the statue of Lord Buddha.
 
 Bante Revat and Bante Dharmapal felicitated the Shah couple and presented them with a statue of Lord Buddha. Later, he visited Veerabhadreshwara temple in Humnabad town and offered prayers.
 
 
 
 
 Shah also visited the houses of three farmers who committed suicide, and consoled the bereaved families. At Shivakumar Basalingappa Alreddy’s house at Mangalagi village, Shah chose to sit on the floor despite being offered a chair, and spoke with Shivakumar’s wife Bakkamma.
 
 He also held talks with farmers in Humnabad town for about an hour, where farmers urged him to get the Swaminathan Committee report implemented. Shah responded positively, saying the BJP would do so if voted to power in the state.
 
 Bidar MP Bhagwant Khuba, BJP legislators Prabhu Chavan and Raghunath Malkapure accompanied Shah.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, Shah addressed a convention of the scheduled caste people in   on Sunday evening where he alleged that Congress insulted Babasaheb Ambedkar by not giving him country’s highest civilian award Bharat Ratna. “Congress remembers Ambedkar and Jagjivan Ram only during the elections for votes,” he alleged.
 
 State BJP president B S Yeddyurappa was present. Shah also visited the famous Sharana Basaveshwara temple at Kalaburagi on Sunday evening.
 
  
