CHANDIGARH: District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has directed ministry of railways to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation for mental harassment to a Sector 21 resident.

 The resident had complaint of finding an insect in her packed   received on the train. The railways was also directed to refund Rs 270 charged for the meal in the train along with 18% interest from the date of the incident till present.
 
 Shalini Jain in her complaint shared that she, along with her two sons, travelled from Chandigarh to New Delhi on July 3, 2016 by   Express. It was averred that the total fare of the said journey was Rs 1,861 which included Rs 270 as catering charges for vegetarian meals to be served.
 
 She added that they were served breakfast during the journey in packs with green stickers on it. However, when the complainant took first bite from her meal, she was shocked to see a live insect moving inside the food pack. She immediately brought this matter to the notice of the catering staff of the train but they were not prompt in their reply. The complainant returned all the food packs, including that of her sons.
 
 It was stated that thereafter the staff of the train offered them other pack of meal, but she and her sons did not accept it. The complainant added that she had demanded for the complaint register but was denied the same. After that the complainant sent a plaint to   minister on October 12, 2016, but did not receive any reply.
 
 No one from railways appeared to contest the case. The forum observed that in the new Catering Policy, 2010 all railway zones were instructed to give priority to provision of good quality food, drinking water and toilet facilities and ensure cleanliness on trains and stations. “It is, however, regretted to note that despite detail instructions, as contained in the revised Catering Policy, 2010, circulated by Commercial Circular by Government of India, no effective steps have been taken by most of the railway zones to uplift the quality of service of food to the passengers on board.”
 
 It was stated that the deficiency on the part of Northern Railways, Ambala Division, Ambala Cantt. stands proved in failing to have a proper check on the food preparation and service provided by their caterer. They were found to be callous too as despite notice, none appeared before the forum to answer the queries as raised in the complaint. The accused were then asked to pay up with 30 days.
 
