Playback and ghazal singer   is often the first choice for music directors and filmmakers when they want to infuse soul to their tracks these days, thanks to his blessed voice. His latest track Mizhiyil Ninnum from  , which straddled the emotions of love and heartbreak in equal measure, won him his first Kerala State Film Award for Best Singer. Shahabaz talks to us about what makes the award special, working with music director   for the track and more.

 
 
 I don’t have hundreds of songs to my credit. I have been selective in terms of movie songs as I also have another journey – in the world of ghazals. In films, the habit usually is that I sing a track and then vanish altogether. The gaps between my film songs too are unpredictable. Because of that, the few songs that I do record will have my signature and my entire soul. So, I will be fully satisfied if any of my song gets an award.
 
 This win gives me double the joy as it is for a love song. I keep saying, when I die, instead of people saying that a singer died, I would rather have them say that a renowned romantic from Malabar passed away. So, because I have so much romance within me, being part of a full-length love story is satisfying.
 
 
 
 Both Rex and I are Aashiq’s friends, but we haven’t even met once before the Mayaanadhi sessions. It was Aashiq’s idea to bring both of us, who have been specialising in two different genres, together for an intense love story. He believed that by making us collaborate, there would be magic.
 
 Though Rex and I hadn’t met before, there was always mutual respect and that’s probably why when we came together, we could sync quickly. Everybody pitched in. If you observe the start of Mizhiyil Ninnum, there was a humming which was Neha Nair’s contribution. I think every artiste who was part of the song was brilliant.
 
 The song’s visuals are about how the protagonists’ romance leads to love making. Aashiq showed us the edited track and that definitely helped us more and also the songs’ lyricist Anwar Ali. That’s why it has words such as ‘udal thulumbi thooyi’. It’s not something that he had guessed and wrote while somebody only narrated the story.
 
 I also think that the song’s placement mattered the most. It played during the love-making scene and then towards the end. I thought the latter version, which was slower, was placed brilliantly and that’s why I believe the song served as a backbone for the movie.
 
 
 
 I think it’s because the tune came from within. When you hum such tunes and brighten it up with your voice, they can be made more soulful. That’s what makes creating a tune more special than just singing a track that has already been tuned for you.
 
 
 
 Projects cannot change our voice’s texture. I like to believe my voice is also related to the geography of where I belong. I was born and brought up in Malappuram and used to visit my umma’s place in Kozhikode during the summer holidays. That’s two different terrains. In Malappuram, there is no sea or railway tracks. The land is hard with gravel and if you fall playing football, you will bleed. However, in Kozhikode, it’s sand. Similarly, if you observe my voice, there are two different layers to it. You cannot pass it through a machine and make it sound sophisticated to suit all seasons. So, I think there’s just one option – people have to adjust to the mix of my abrasive and honeyed voice; I cannot change my texture to suit their need.
 
 
 
 Right now, most of the active music directors such as Bijibal and Gopi Sunder are friends, and so when they call me for a track, I can ask them to let me listen to the song. When I hear the skeletal track, I can imagine what will happen when I record it in a studio and it’s added with other elements as I am also able to think from a music director’s point of view. If my voice texture doesn’t blend with the other artiste’s, I let them know that I won’t be able to sing the track as my voice doesn’t suit it. You could notice the difference well in the song Oru Mezhuthiriyude from Vishudhan. If my voice synced with the other artiste’s, I believe the song could have amplified the romantic element.
 
 
 
 In March, I have a concert in Kuwait and in April, I will be performing in Qatar. That’s an on-going journey. Mayaanadhi happened in between all of that. I will choose movies depending on the offers that come. I am in no hurry. Mayaanadhi is in the air right now, and so I don’t feel the need to sing a lot more love songs now. If there is anything that suits my voice I will take it up else I will continue with my concerts.
 
