HYDERABAD: Hyderabad has the potential to generate close to 1,730MW (1.73GW) energy through rooftop solar photovoltaic (RTPV) systems, which can help the city reduce power demand by almost 15%, astudy has revealed.

 According to the study titled ‘Rooftop Revolution: Unleashing Hyderabad’s solar potential’, jointly conducted by   and the Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute (GERMI), nearly 70% (1193MW) of the city’s total RTPV potential can come from residential buildings under Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits.
 
 
 Buildings in the Osmania University (OU) campus, the Begumpet and Shamshabad airports, the city's railway and metro stations as well as   bus depots have all been identified as buildings with the potential to generate rooftop solar power by the report.
 
 “Of India’s total ‘40GW rooftop solar by 2022’ goal, Hyderabad has a potential to generate 2.7MW per sq km by installing rooftop solar panels and can contribute nearly 1.73GW. Of the total goal, India has so far reached only 1GW. While switching to solar will help bring down pollution, it is also a solid long-term investment for residents since their electricity bills will come down,” said Akhilesh Magal, head advisor for solar energy and environment and energy efficiency, GERMI, pointing to the lack of awareness, subsidies and financial support as roadblocks to achieving the country’s solar power goals.
 
 While the residential category has the highest estimated RTPV potential, the PV potential of 'commercial' category buildings that fall under GHMC limits is an estimated 56MW and that for buildings or land categorized as ‘industrial’ is 54MW.
 
 The ‘multipurpose’ land use category area within GHMC limits has an estimated potential of 231MW while the same figure for the ‘public and semi-public’ category stands at 178MW.
 
 The ‘transportation’ and ‘military land’ categories recorded the lowest RTPV potential in comparison to the other land use categories, the report revealed.
 
 “Hyderabad has consistently recorded the maximum air pollution in comparison with other districts of the state, as is clear from the Pollution Control Board data. Solar rooftop goals have the potential to create more than one lakh green jobs in Hyderabad, in addition to helping bring down the high pollution levels in the city,” said  , climate and energy campaigner, Greenpeace India.
 
 The study was based on a sample of over 8,887 plots that fall under eight different land use categories within GHMC limits. As of 2017, Telangana had 1,868MW of renewable energy installation, of which achunk is solar power.
 
