Trichy: The case of a 25-year-old missing woman took a new turn after her brother-in-law confessed to her murder. He had cut her body into pieces and thrown them into a river bed with the help of his friend near Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district. While the two have been arrested, relatives of the victim staged a protest demanding the arrest of the entire in-law family, alleging their involvement.

 According to police, the victim A Esther of South Nanalur near Mannargudi married M Joseph Rajasekar, 30, of Melalavanthacheri near Thevangudi in 2015. The couple had a two-year-old son. As Joseph worked in Singapore, Esther resided alone with her son. Her brother-in-law M Nelson, a farmer, resided in a separate house along with his wife, mother and two children.
 
 On May 6, a relative of Esther had visited her house to invite her for a wedding. She did not find her and saw that only her son was playing at the house. When he enquired about Esther with the family members, they told him that she was ill and was resting in the room. On suspicion, the relative informed Esther’s absence to her parents. Subsequently, her father Arockiasamy contacted Nelson, who stated that she had been missing for the last few days.
 
 Esther’s parents along with her relatives rushed to Melalavanthecheri and confronted the family about her whereabouts. As they gave contradicting answers, Esther’s father lodged a complaint with Devangudi police alleging foul play in the disappearance. 
 
 Police zeroed in on Nelson and eventually he confessed to have murdered Esther and cut the body into pieces and threw them into Koraiyar river bed after stuffing them in two bags. Based on his statement, police recovered the bags and sent them to Mannargudi government hospital for post-mortem.
 
 During the interrogation, Nelson told police that till the death of his father Moses, six-month ago, Joseph had been sending money every month from Singapore to Moses’s account. The entire family had been lavishly spending the money. However, after Moses’s death, Joseph stopped sending money to his account and had started to transfer the amount to Esther’s account. This had created some issues within the family. Esther had reportedly refused to share the money with other family members.
 
 Angered by her resistance to share the money, Nelson allegedly murdered Esther. Based on his statement, police arrested Nelson and his friend Sahayaraj, who had helped to commit the crime and further inquiries are on, police said.
 
 
