Ludhiana: Nine days after Ludhiana police booked two residents of Jalandhar for murder after body parts of a 22-year-old youth missing from Hathoor village in Jagraon were found near Chachowali village in Jalandhar, his family members refused to cremate their son till the culprits are arrested. 

 On Thursday, police rounded up the woman who allegedly gave the accused the SIM card from which he called the deceased. Representatives of various political parties also visited the family. 
 
 It is alleged that the youth had a few objectionable pictures of the sister of one of the accused, Lovedish Sandhu. On December 30, he called one Gurpreet Singh, who is pursuing a diploma course in computers, near Ludhiana bus stand with the pictures, after which he went missing. 
 
 When police handed over the body of the deceased to the family, his 82-year-old grandmother Gurdayal Kaur locked it in a wooden box and refused to cremate it till the culprits were arrested. 
 
 Sources said a police team comprising SP, investigation Rupinder Bhardwaj, DSP headquarter Sarabjeet Singh and DSP Jagraon Kanwarpal Singh reached the village to persuade the family to cremate the body. They said the family told the police they would not back down and would conduct the last rites only after the arrest of the culprits. 
 
 Meanwhile, Jaraon police started work on the case immediately after getting case files. Superintendent of police said they have constituted five teams to crack the case and have rounded up a woman from Chachowali village for questioning.
 
 Police said the girl knew the accused, Lovedish Sandhu of Mehru and Jatinder Gill of Gahir near Nakodar as they were in the same class. They said she gave the sim card registered in her father’s name, which they allegedly used to call the deceased before killing him. 
 
 Former MLA and SAD leader S R Kler first met family members of the deceased and accompanied them to the Ludhiana police commissioner, requesting him to shift the case to Hathoor police station. MLA and Lok Insaf Party Leader Simarjit Bains and AAP Leader and MLA Jagraon Sarabjeet Kaur Manuke visited the family on Thursday morning. Congress leader Malkeet Singh Dakha also visited the bereaved family, village residents said. 
 
 
