NEW DELHI: A head injury during army training followed by prolonged treatment had led   to fly into uncontrolled rage at the slightest provocation. 

 This was a result of his feeling frustrated at not being able to perform to his full capacity, police officers said. According to family members, Dhankar, who went on a rampage and bludgeoned six people to death on Tuesday, underwent treatment for this behaviour in the army hospital in Kalimpong and continued in service until he attacked a colleague in 1999.
 
 While probing the six murders, the Palwal Police’s special investigating team found that Dhankar had similarly turned violent at a time when troops were being mobilised for the Kargil War. After he thrashed a junior, apparently angered that he had arrived late with the rations, Dhankar was hospitalised. His elder brother, Chandrapal, an Army subedar posted in Kashmir, had to be granted leave to attend to him at the base hospital in Kalimpong in West Bengal. Dhankar was discharged from the Army after this, but he overcame his stress to complete his MSc degree with a percentage of 82. 
 
 Dhankar is currently undergoing treatment at Safdarjung Hospital, where he was questioned by SIT on Friday. He is believed to have claimed that he could not control his anger after being “mistreated by my wife and in-laws”. A day earlier, a police team had visited his apartment at Omaxe City in Palwal to locate his mobile phone in order to scan his text messages and the calls he made before his murderous spree. Prescriptions and medicine samples were also found in the house. 
 
 Relatives said that the former Army man had called Chandrapal on December 29, saying that he was unwell and had run out of medicines. The brother asked him to visit their village and together see a doctor. Dhankar had left office accordingly, but did not turn up at the family home. “I called him several times and got no response,” said Chandrapal. “This was unnatural since he usually turns to us for help if he is unwell. I sensed something was wrong when he kept disconnecting the calls.”
 
 Family members disclosed Chandrapal had discussed divorce with Dhankar recently, only to have him say that he would give his marriage a last try. They said that Dhankar’s wife, Seema, returned to her father’s house in Palwal’s Adarsh Nagar when her husband came home on the weekends to avoid confrontation. “This has been going on for the past six months,” said the disturbed man’s nephew Navin. “He told us that he did not eat for days because his wife did not leave any food for him in the house. He also had not had medicines for nearly a year.”
 
 
