PATNA: Residents of Kankerbagh and the neighbouring localities may well be saved from the onslaught of waterlogging this monsoon, thanks to construction of a ‘zero point’ at Ashok Nagar. If PMC officials are to be believed, the zero point will become functional from June.

 The zero point is a structure built in the form of a well, where drain water from ward numbers 29, 31, 32 and 34 will accumulate. The water will then be pumped out through the   sump house.
 
 The   (PMC) and Bihar Rajya Jal Parishad (BRJP) officials held a meeting on Monday to discuss preparedness to fight waterlogging this monsoon. “The civic body will work in close coordination with the BRJP. The need of the hour is to find solution for the perennial waterlogging problem. Blaming each other will not serve any purpose. It was decided at the meeting that the civic body and the BRJP will deploy each other’s representative in the waterlogging control rooms of the two bodies,” PMC commissioner Keshav Ranjan Prasad said.
 
 Issues related to functioning of sump houses were also discussed at the meeting. “The motor of the sump house at   needs to be repaired. The BRJP has already started the repair work. The sump house at Yogipur has already been made functional,” Prasad added.
 
 PMC deputy municipal commissioner   said the sump house at   requires a separate line. “For the time being, a super sucker machine will be used. The pumps at sump house near Police Colony are not in working condition. They will be repaired before the monsoon. The capacity of sump house near Gosai Tola has to be increased. This sump house drains out water from Pataliputra Colony,” Anand added.
 
 Executive engineers of PMC and BRJP have been asked to visit all the sump houses in the city in the next two days and make them functional. 
 
 “Waterlogging is a perennial problem for the residents of Kankerbagh and the neighbouring localities. Construction of the zero point had started three years back. The BRJP had initially targeted to make the zero point functional last year. However, the deadline was extended due to reasons better known to the officials concerned,” ward number 34 councillor Kumar Sanjeet said.
 
 Pinki Yadav, councillor of ward number 31, said the zero point would prove effective to drain out water from areas like Kankerbagh, Ashok Nagar, Postal Park, Chirayatand Pul and Ram Lakhan Path.
 
 
