CHENNAI: Here's a helpful dad giving his son a heads-up on what not to do when caught peddling marijuana plus a useful tip for the future on how a father ought not not respond to such circumstances - especially if he's a police officer. 

 Receiving a call from his son Rahul, who was carrying no less than 1.5kg of ganja to sell to prospective customers when Narcotics Intelligence Bureau-Crime Investigation Department sleuths busted him near Ashok Pillar on Thursday night, special sub-inspector (SSI) Mohan went to his rescue.
 
 
 The SSI, attached to the Mangadu police station, whisked away his son from the spot on his motorcycle, discarding several sachets of ganja that Rahul had been carrying on the side of the road before the surprised NIB-CID officers could react.
 
 The NIB-CID officers did not take kindly to this fatherly gesture (though there may be something to be said for the SSI's alacrity, since he would have had to organise a jailbreak to exercise his misplaced paternal instincts had he paused to think through the situation). They informed the Mangadu police.
 
 An officer with knowledge of the case said Rahul was a repeat offender. The city police have booked him at least once in the past for selling ganja, he said.
 
 "The NIB-CID sleuths were keeping a close watch on a hotel near Ashok Pillar after they received a tip on ganja being peddled in the vicinity," the officer said. "Around 7pm, they questioned a man in his early 20s, and found that a bag he was carrying was stuffed with ganja."
 
 The suspect identified himself as Rahul and told the officers that his father was a SSI and that he lived in West Mambalam. Rahul then made a call to his father on his cellphone, informed him what had happened and proclaimed his innocence.
 
 "The NIB-CID officers were still questioning Rahul a couple of minutes later, trying to find out where he sourced the ganja from, when SSI Mohan arrived on his motorcycle," the officer said. "Mohan spoke to his son briefly, then snatched the contraband and flung it near a garbage bin on the roadside. Challenging the NIB-CID officers to face him in court, Mohan sped away with his son on his bike."
 
 The police department opened a probe and started a search for Rahul.
 
 
