CHENNAI: Having taken the   world by storm in recent months, there is a lot of sudden interest surrounding the rise of  . By his own admission, though, the key is to stay as ‘cool as a cucumber’ when on the golf course. “You cannot express the turmoil within. There are highs and lows on the green but you cannot let that affect you,” Shubhankar said on the sidelines of a golf clinic arranged by TAKE solutions here on Friday. And so, his meteoric growth in the recent past and all the adulation around him hasn’t got to his head. He is still the calm and composed 21-year-old who knows that the journey has just begun. “I always knew that I had what it takes to reach there. But yes, I didn’t know that I could achieve this level so fast.”

 
 Shubhankar led for two rounds at the high-profile   in   earlier this month but slipped in the last round. It was a similar story in the recently concluded Indian Open too. But the youngster isn’t fazed by it and has only drawn positives from these tournaments.
 
 “I won’t call it a mental block that I faltered in the final round twice. I have dealt with a final round before and won (in Jo’burg and Malaysia). It is just that things did not fall into place for me in both Mexico and Delhi.
 
 “There was pressure. Not only the pressure that I put on myself but playing in such a strong field. There is so much media frenzy, so many people. It was a completely new environment and I was not used to it. But I thought I handled myself really well. I didn’t make too many mistakes but just got unlucky and lost my swing on a few holes in the end,” Shubhankar reasoned.
 
 Shubhankar has the chance to put things right when the Augusta Masters kicks off on April 5. “I received a call when I landed from Mexico that I will be a part of Augusta Masters. It is the one phone call that I have always dreamt of getting and when it finally happened, I was ecstatic. It will take a lot of planning and preparation but I am ready for it.”
 
 There is also the small matter of having received an invitation from none other than   to join him for a practice round ahead of the tournament. “I read that he has said in a press conference that he would like me to join him in a practice round ahead of the Augusta Masters. It is such an honour for me. I haven’t met him yet but I have seen him at tournaments. He seems like a really nice person and a happy-go-lucky chap,” Shubhankar said.
 
 While things are progressing at breakneck speed for Shubhankar, the youngster is well aware of the need to stay in the present. “We need to understand that golf is a very difficult sport and the beauty of the sport is that you can rise suddenly. I was in the 500s a few months ago and now I am ranked 64th in the world. So I know how much more I have to work to keep up this level of consistency. But the good news is that I am ready for it.”
 
