People with diabetes can develop many different foot problems. But the chances of having diabetes related foot problems can be lowered by taking care of your feet and managing blood glucose levels. Various foot problems along with ways of managing these conditions are mentioned below:

 
 
 Many people with diabetes have nerve damage which reduces sensation and consequently lessens your ability to feel pain, heat and cold. Loss of feeling often means you may not feel a foot injury. You could get a blister and not feel it. You might not notice a foot injury until the skin breaks down and becomes infected.
 
 
 
 
 Many people with diabetes have   (PAD), which reduces blood flow to the feet. Poor circulation can reduce the ability of your foot to fight infection and to heal. Physical activities that are easy on your feet like light exercises, walking, yoga, stretching etc. are advisable. It stimulates blood flow in the legs and feet. Walking in sturdy, good-fitting, comfortable shoes should be preferred.
 
 
 
 
 Ulcers occur most often on the ball of the foot or at the bottom of the big toe. Neglecting ulcers can result in infections, which in turn can lead to the loss of a limb. Walking on an ulcer can make it larger and force the infection deeper into your foot. Regular monitoring of diabetes is critical in such a case. High blood glucose levels make it hard to fight infection. You may need to wear special shoes after the ulcer is healed to protect this area and to prevent a relapse of an ulcer.
 
 
 
 People with diabetes are far more likely to have a foot or leg amputated than other people. Most amputations are preventable with regular care and proper footwear.
 
 
 Do you inspect your feet and toe spaces daily? 
 Do you use moisturizers for your feet?
 Do you wear footwear outdoors and indoors? 
 Does your footwear fit properly and is it comfortable? 
 Do you inspect your footwear before wearing it? 
 Do you change your footwear if damaged / ill-fitting?
 
 
 
 
 
