GURUGRAM: In an atmosphere brimming with discontent over the   government’s alleged failure in extending “adequate honours and compensation” to the family of  , chief minister   visited the martyred soldier’s Ransika village home on Thursday.

 The family of the captain expressed displeasure at the manner in which the state government “handled the whole situation” after the Army officer’s death, and that the CM had paid a visit to the home three days after his cremation. Kundu (22) was killed during Pakistani shelling in Jammu & Kashmir’s Rajouri district on February 4. 
 
 Khattar told the family a compensation of Rs 50 lakh would be given to them, as the state’s policy is. He also said the government would consider the family’s demand of employment to Kundu’s sisters, a memorial and a primary healthcare centre in his name in the village. “The family lost their only son, and we are with them in the difficult times. We will consider all the demands made by the family and weigh their procedural feasibility,” Khattar said. However, people in the village and the family were disappointed with the response. “The fact that the CM visited the family only four days after Kundu lost his life itself says a lot,” said a villager.
 
 Kundu’s cousin Ajit said. “Some time back, a soldier from Madhya Pradesh was killed and was given a very high honour by the government of that state. At the same time, my cousin who was a captain has not been given any substantial honour by the Haryana government.” 
 
 Kundu’s sister Kajal also said the CM had mentioned only compensation during his interaction with the family and not spoken about conferring any honour.
 
 Mayank, Kundu’s brother-in-law, said the CM’s visit seemed more of political than a gesture to express solidarity with the grieving family. “Khattar came here, but he did not say much beyond the compensation amount. Even Gurugram MP   came, but went back making promises,” he said.
 
 Villagers responded similarly. “Our soldiers work in extreme conditions. We want to encourage more youths from our village to join the armed forces but if the government only gives us assurances and does not treat their martyrs adequately, youngsters will not be encouraged to do so,” said a young neighbour of the Kundus, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Opposition leaders also lashed out at the government. “When Olympians are rewarded in crores, why no such honour for our soldiers? His (Kundu’s) mother lost her only son. The government must empathise with the grieving mother and ensure she is looked after well,” said state   leader and former Haryana power minister Captain Ajay Singh Yadav.
 
 Asked about the family’s concerns, Jawahar Yadav, a close aide of the CM, said, “As per Haryana tradition, one must visit a bereaved family before the 13th day after the demise of a person, and the CM did that. Also, PWD minister   attended the captain’s last rites.”
 
 
