CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh administration, on Friday, launched an online appointment system to spare the residents the ordeal of running from pillar to post to avail the services at the estate office.

 The services will be available online and at the e-Sampark centres of the administration from January 22. Chandigarh has strong a network of 18 e-Sampark centres, 11 e-Sampark kiosks, and 14 Gram   centres.
 
 To begin with, the residents can take online appointments to avail a total of 4 services which include transfer on the basis of sale deed (without litigation), transfer on the basis of family transfer deed, transfer on the basis of gift deed, and permission to mortgage in favour of nationalised and scheduled banks.
 
 As per the laid down procedure, the owner of the property will have to submit a request in the estate office either online or through the e-sampark counter and upload the requisite form according to his/her request along with a copy of the complete application file. The applicant will get a date and a time of appointment to appear in the estate office, personally, along with the required original documents as per the prescribed booklet and his request will be processed thereafter.
 
 In case, the applicant fails to appear on the given date and time, the request will be deemed declined automatically and the applicant will have to apply afresh. The files will be dealt on the first come first and serve basis and a total no of 25 slots per day will be given for appointment at the estate office as per availability.
 
 Federation of  , Chandigarh ( ) chairman   Bittu lauded the efforts of the administration. “It is a good initiative on part of the authorities,” said Bittu. He further said the number of slots should be increased so that more people can avail the service.
 
 What’s on plate?
 
 Transfer on the basis of sale deed
 
 Transfer on the basis of family transfer deed
 
 Transfer on the basis of gift deed
 
 Permission to mortgage in favour of nationalised/scheduled banks
 
 
