LUDHIANA: The final list of candidates in the fray for various posts of the District Bar Association (DBA) was declared by returning officers (ROs) here on Friday evening. According to the ROs, none of the candidates who filed nomination papers withdrew their nominations on Friday. Giving details, RO   said that they had scrutinized on Friday the nomination papers filed by candidates.

 Pali said none of the 26 candidates withdrew their nomination papers on Friday, so at 4.30pm, they displayed the list of candidates contesting the elections. He added that while three candidates each were contesting for the posts of president, secretary, joint secretary, and finance secretary, four were in the fray for the vice-president’s post. For the post of six executive members, 10 candidates were contesting the elections.
 
 Pali added that since the list of candidates contesting the elections was out, they were getting ballot papers printed. He added that a ballot paper would have photographs of each and every candidates contesting for various posts. “On the pattern of Lok Sabha and state elections, I have provided the option of ‘None of the Above (Nota), as I thought there could be advocates who wanted candidates of their choice, as they might be unhappy with all the present contestants,” said Pali. He added that he also tried for executive members to be elected unanimously instead of voting, and would still continue his efforts towards that end.
 
 The returning officers said they would act strictly against defacement of judicial buildings with posters, even as they were allowed to install boards and paste posters outside the complex. They added they would also ensure voters carry their identity cards on the polling day, so that there was no fake voting. Meanwhile, even as the final list of candidates was declared on Friday evening, campaigning by candidates is set to pick up in the next few days, as they will try to woo voters.
 
 POST CONTESTANTS
 
 President: 1. Kanwar   2. Vijay B Verma 3. Parupkar Singh Ghuman
 
 Vice-President: 1. Harjot   2. Yogesh Khanna 3. Ritesh Dhir 4. Gurdeep Singh Salh
 
 Secretary: 1. Gurinder   2.   3. Hariom Jindal
 
 Joint Secretary: 1. Amit Rai 2. Hanish Gupta 3. Gaurav Arora
 
 Finance Secretary: 1. Roopali Mohlri 2. Gagandeep Singh Lamba 3. Rakesh Sharma
 
 
