NAGPUR: Taking a serious view of the traffic snarls on roads,  , in association with the traffic police, has installed solar signals at some of the most important and busy junctions in the city. Ten signals have already been installed while five more will be installed soon. The location of these five traffic junctions is yet to be decided. 

 A source in Mahametro said that   had to be installed as electricity-operated signals were rendered non-functional at some of the squares. “These signals are easy to install and operate. Geetanjali Square, Telephone Exchange, Hingna T-point, Ambazari T-point, and   are some of the locations where these signals have been installed. The number of solar signals is likely to be increased as per requirement,” he said.
 
 “Installation of these signals was among a series of measures taken by Mahametro to solve traffic-related issues. As part of this endeavour, a meeting of senior Mahametro officials and traffic police was held to enhance coordination between the two agencies,” the source added.
 
 The officials also discussed some of the major issues, including diversion of roads where construction work is in progress, installing road dividers wherever required, and filling up potholes on the roads. They took some major decisions, including removal of material, if any, placed on footpaths to enable pedestrians to use it, removing barricades wherever possible for proper traffic flow, and installing speed breakers.
 
 The officials of the two departments undertook combined inspection of busy roads and traffic junctions. DCP (traffic) Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, all the four chief project managers (CPMs) of Mahametro, engineers, police inspectors of the areas concerned, contractors and others were part of the exercise. The teams also undertook spot decisions aimed at improving the traffic flow.
 
  CPMs   (Reach-I), Mahadev Swamy (Reach-II), R Arun Kumar (Reach-III) and M Suresh (Reach-IV), general manager (electrical) GC Paunikar, Pardeshi, and other officials from both the departments were present at the meeting.
 
 
