BENGALURU: ‘Match fixing’ is an allegation that is being heard across parties this election season, uttered mostly by those who have been denied tickets and have raised a banner of revolt.

 
 N Ramesh, who was denied a   ticket from Chickpet, says, “It is clear that some senior BJP leaders from Bengaluru city have joined hands with   candidate (RV Devaraj) and have sabotaged my candidature. Devaraj will return their favour and pool his resources to help them when they contest elections.”
 
 Several BJP leaders admit N Ramesh stood a better chance against Devaraj than the party’s official nominee.
 
 P Ramesh says he was denied Congress ticket from   because the party wanted to help sitting BJP MLA S Raghu win easily. “Senior Congress leaders said the party wanted to field minister HC Mahadevappa from CV Raman Nagar. When Mahadevappa’s candidature did not materialise, I should have been chosen since everyone knows that I have a better chance of winning. Instead, they fielded an outsider (mayor R Sampath Raj who is from Pulikeshinagar),” says P Ramesh, who is now the JD(S) candidate from CV Raman Nagar.
 
 Political observers though are divided over whether match-fixing is at work in elections. “How is it that BTM Layout, Vijaynagar and Govindraj Nagar in Bengaluru South parliamentary constituency;   and Shanthi Nagar in Bengaluru Central and K R Puram, Byatarayanapura and Yeshwantpur voted overwhelmingly for the Congress in the 2013 assembly elections but swung to the other extreme and chose BJP a year later in Lok Sabha elections? Chamarajpet elects a Muslim candidate in assembly elections but provides lead to BJP in Lok Sabha elections,” says S Mahadevaprakash, a political analyst.
 
 Political analyst Sandeep Shastry, however, points out that there have been instances of bigwigs biting the dust too. “May be there are rare instances, but I don’t think political parties would venture into quid-pro-quo deals with rivals, which would be detrimental for both. Dynamics specific to the assembly seats and candidates can alone explain the phenomenon,” he says.
 
 “What I understand is that our voters prefer BJP when it comes to parliamentary elections and support Congress in assembly polls,” said minister M Krishnappa, who is seeking election from Vijayanagar for the third time.
 
 Political observers say in a city like Bengaluru crossparty nexuses work across the three tiers of elections — Lok Sabha, assembly and municipal. “Contenders in one tier take help from rival party representatives in another tier,” one of them explains. Transfer of votes en masse and absence of wavelike situations are crucial to such arrangements working out, they add.
 
 ‘Friendly matches’, in fact, are unravelling across the state. In  , the Jarkiholi, Katti and Hukkeri families dominate all three parties and are likely to prevail this time too.
 
 Prakash Khandre, who was denied a BJP ticket from Bhalki in Bidar district against Congress candidate Eshwar Khandre, rues: “It looks like my party wants to be defeated. Who can help BJP?” Prakash was seen to be a stronger candidate to face Eshwar but the BJP decided to field a relatively weak D K Siddaramu, who had lost the 2013 elections as a Karnataka Janata Party candidate.
 
 In Shiggaon, the Congress has fielded Khadri Syed Azimpeer, who has lost thrice since 1989, against BJP’s Basavaraj Bommai, who has been winning from 2008.
 
