CHANDIGARH: The   on Sunday tried to placate discontent among its MLAs upset over not being made part of the recent expansion in the state’s council of ministers, with Amritsar West legislator Raj Kumar Verka saying the party high command had assured him of redressing the issue.

 Verka told TOI that a section of the Dalit community was feeling that injustice had been done as they had not been given due representation in the cabinet. He said he raised the issue with state leadership and the party high command. “It’s not personal, but pertains to the feelings of a community that numbers nearly 35 lakh in Punjab. Since Independence, a fine balance has been maintained among communities. We have raised this issue at the party forum and the leadership will redress it,” he said.
 
 
 The statement came on a day the party got into damagecontrol mode. Punjab   president Sunil Jakhar,
 
 party in-charge of Punjab affairs Asha   and co-incharge   met in Chandigarh to discuss the future course of action. Jakhar said the party had many able leaders who might have been aspiring for a place in the cabinet and the issues would be resolved. “They are pillars of the party and have been contributing for the welfare of the state. Whatever issues they have will be taken care,” he said. At least three party MLAs claimed to have resigned from party posts in protest after the list of new ministers was announced on Friday. Asha Kumari, however, said no resignation had been received by the party. Sources said some of the disgruntled leaders had expressed grouse after the swearingin ceremony in Chandigarh on Sunday.
 
 Verka, a prominent Dalit face of the party, was expecting a cabinet berth but failed to make it to the final list, prepared by chief minister Amarinder Singh after two meetings with Congress president Rahul Gandhi. Apart from Verka, Indian Youth Congress president Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra too were expecting cabinet berths as young leaders of the party.
 
