In the latest episode of  ,   arrives at the event and begins to look for Ms. Ramona. She seeks help from a few people who guide her. While she is on her way to meet Ramona, she sees herself in the mirror of a car, in which   is seated. She checks herself and drops her file. Shivaay gets out of the car and feels that Anika is nearby He turns around but is unable to see her as she is on the other side of the car, picking up her folder.

 Shivaay informs Om over the phone that he has reached the venue and will attend the show after the media interaction. The media asks Shivaay about his team ‘Super Smashers’ and captain Viraj, who he has brought for Rs. 20 crores. Shivaay tells them it is the team that matters the most to him, and not just one cricketer. Meanwhile, Viraj is seen praising himself. Both Shivaay and Viraj get into a verbal spat, which leaves the latter annoyed.
 
 Anika meets Ms. Ramona and is ill-treated by her for no reason. The latter asks Anika to take juice for Viraj. Anika goes disappointed with her new job. When she enters Viraj’s room, she finds him taking out his anger on the punching bag. Anika gets scared and drops the juice. Viraj scolds her and asks her to get out. Ramona enters and apologises on Anika’s behalf. When Viraj asks the girl’s name, Ramona tells her it is Anika. Viraj finds it familiar. He searches for her on the internet and learns she is Shivaay’s wife. He decides to take revenge. 
 
 In the green room, Ramona asks if the snow machine has been checked. Anika takes it upon herself to look into it. She goes and switches the machine on. However, she is unable to put it off. In no time, she finds herself in the middle of the fake snow. Even Shivaay gets stuck in it. Their hands brush against each other. And they sense each other’s presence. But yet again, they are unable to see each other. 
 
 Elsewhere, Roop calls Pooja and threatens her to make Shivaay accept her as his wife. She tells her she is trying her best and disconnects the call. She decides to do something at the party organised by Shivaay in the evening. 
 
