PATNA: The state government would sign an MoU with   (BCA) for the development of Moinul Haq   in the state capital, said deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi on Tuesday while inaugurating a four-day ‘Bihar Eklavya Khel’ at Pataliputra Sports Complex here.

 The BCCI had de-affiliated the state cricket body and recognized the Jamshedpur-based association as its affiliated unit after the bifurcation of   in 2000. But, the   asked the BCCI on January 4 this year to allow Bihar’s participation in the Ranji Trophy and other national tournaments.“This order has been passed keeping in view the cause of cricket,” the bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra had observed. The court also said Bihar Cricket Association, which had been elected by virtue of a Supreme Court order, shall be in charge of the game in the state.
 
 “The state government will sign an MoU with BCA for the development of   where the state’s budding and talented crickets will take coaching of international standards,” SuMo said.
 
 Stating that the state government was committed to providing all facilities to the sportspersons apart from improving infrastructure facilities required for various games, SuMo said 90 acre land had already been acquired for construction of a sports complex-cum-stadium at   at an estimated cost of Rs633 crore.
 
 Sportspersons are being given one per cent reservation in the recruitment of police department, he added.
 
 Altogether 370 children were being given training at the state’s 22 Eklavya residential sports training centres, the deputy CM said, adding the government intended to impart training to around 1,000 children by opening 17 additional such training centres in the state next year.
 
 The government has also increased the amount from Rs100 to Rs225 for every child of the centre for food, he said and added that children would now get sports kit and dress twice, instead of once in a year. The government has also increased the emoluments of coaches of Eklavya centres from Rs8,000 to Rs30,000 per month, SuMo said.
 
 
