In a dream finale, Hyderabad Hunters beat Bengaluru Blasters to lift the third edition of   in front of their cheering fans at Gachibowli Stadium last Sunday. “It was amazing to play in Hyderabad with the fans egging us on. I’m very proud of being part of this team, and to win our maiden PBL title,” said the proud captain,   who had little time to celebrate though as she headed to Malaysia to compete at the Malaysia Masters that began on January 16. Hyderabad Times caught up with the Olympic Gold Medalist for a quick chat to find out how much she knows about the city she’s been leading for the last two seasons, why she hasn’t tried the Hyderabadi biryani yet and her tryst with Telangana handlooms. 
Admittedly, Team Hyderabad’s star campaigner has not got a chance to sample the local cuisine despite leading the home team since 2016. Looks like she’s waiting for an opportune time, when there isn’t a match to play the next day. “Sadly, I haven’t been able to indulge in any Hyderabadi cuisine. I am always here for tournaments and am a little skeptical about trying any new food as I don’t want to have an upset tummy before a match,” says the 24-year-old, smiling.
 Recently, Marin created quite a stir on social media when she tweeted a picture of herself sporting a Telangana handloom designer outfit. While the Spaniard admits to have little inkling about the weave she wore, she does confess to enjoy wearing Indian attires. “Someone from my team’s management had asked me to wear it to promote Telangana Handloom and I did it. It was a lot of fun though. Last year, I had walked the ramp during the PBL inauguration ceremony wearing a ghagra choli. That was a blast too,” she says. 
 But if there is one thing Marin loves doing in Hyderabad, it is playing in front of the vociferous crowd. “It’s always great to play in front of the home crowd; the support we’ve got is incredible,” she says, adding that the atmosphere in team Hyderabad’s dressing room is one of the main reasons for the team’s great showing this season. “It’s really amazing to be part of the Hyderabad team. I share a great rapport with all the teammates, especially with Sai (Praneeth), Satwik (Sai Raj) and Rahul (Raj). They are great team players and are very helpful. We train really hard and have a lot of fun too, playing pranks on each other. It really helps in bonding as a team,” says the former World No 1, who bounced back from a hip injury she suffered last November that sidelined her for the rest of last 
 season. Having made a winning start to the year, Marin is looking forward to a packed 2018. “Last year was really hectic. There are so many tournaments lined up this year and I have set my sights on participating in at least 12 of them,” says the 2017   Super Series winner, signing off.
 
