KOTA: While slamming   and RSS for their mutual ties despite one being a political organization and other a nationalist, cultural organization, former chief minister  , said that RSS has become an additional constitutional authority in the country that makes the all the decision in BJP to abide by. Now, BJP should merge with RSS so that   can better fight against the one ideology rather than masked ones, he said.

 Gehlot was on Saturday speaking to mediapersons during his brief stoppage in Kota before leaving for Jodhpur.
 
 “The RSS has become an additional constitutional authority in the country that decides who would be the CM of states, who should be sent to cabinet and who should go to corporations,” Gehlot said claiming all the key decisions in the BJP government are taken by RSS. RSS is masked organization that claims itself to be a cultural organization that talks of only Hinduttva but now their (RSS) reality is exposed and they (people in RSS) should come out to open politics now, Gehlot said.
 
 BJP should now merge with RSS as both RSS and BJP hold the same policy he said adding Congress and its workers are capable enough to counter the same ideology. The RSS now like an extra constitutional authority, orders the prime minister who should be the minister and the CM and now they (RSS) should stop calling themselves a cultural organization as they misguide the public and tend to grab the votes, Gehlot further said. Congress believes in the fight for ideology and is ready to counter BJP at ideological front, he said.
 
 ‘An air of politics of hate is currently prevailing in the country’, ex-CM Gehlot observed and said politics of violence on ‘love Jihad’ ‘Gharvapsi’ and on cow is rampant everywhere in the country and that is regrettable. Law and order situation across the country is out of gear and the talks and claims to bring back money have now been stopped, he further said. ‘The politics that they (RSS, BJP) are playing with masked faces is not at all good for the country’, Gehlot said.
 
 Gehlot also expressed confidence of the comeback of Congress into power in the next elections. Congress leader   has already announced that they would not let them (BJP) come in power and it is sure and certain that that Congress would come in power in the next election, Gehlot said.
 
 On the proposed yatra by chief minister   in the state, Gehlot said that public has well understood the reality of these   and now public cannot be duped by these Yatras.
 
 ‘Public has now understood the pump and show of yatras (Latke Jhatke ki Yatra). Yatra to misguide the woman and now public cannot be duped by these Yatras’, Gehlot said.
 
 The ex chief minister also alleged the sand mafia in the state is thriving under the guardianship of the government.
 
 
