PATNA: Union law and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Sunday said the opposition combine comprising the   and the smaller parties would not be able to stop the “caravan” of PM   in the 2019 parliamentary elections, as they constituted the “defeated and tired” political force.

 
 Addressing a meeting of the intellectuals at Gyan Bhavan here to celebrate the completion of four years of Narendra   government, the minister took a jibe at the Congress, which had recently moved the Supreme Court after Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala invited BJP’s B S Yeddyurappa to form the government in the southern state. “Those who are defeated cannot run the country by filing PIL in the court,” the minister said, emphasising that with 104 MLAs, BJP is the single largest party in Karnataka.
 
 Highlighting the achievements of the Narendra Modi-led government at the Centre, the minister said, “Today, middlemen have no place in Delhi Durbar. Unlike in the past, they do not have any say in the decision making process of the government.”
 
 Claiming that the policies of the Centre are “pro-poor”, the minister informed the gathering how electrification of villages, issuance of neem-coated urea and linking of Jan Dhan accounts with   and cellhones helped the poor in the country. “Beneficiaries of various schemes are availing the direct benefit transfer (DBT) facility, which has put a brake on misappropriation of funds,” he added.
 
 Senior BJP functionaries, including president of the party’s state unit Nityanand Rai, Union minister Ram Kripal Yadav, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar, Mangal Pandey and Vinod Narayan Jha and   member Dr C P Thakur also addressed the meeting.
 
 The ministers of the state highlighted the work and schemes being implemented by their respective departments with money coming from the Centre. Road construction department minister Nand Kishore said national highways and mega bridges were being constructed with money provided by the Centre as part of the Rs 1.25 lakh crore central package that the then prime ministerial candidate of BJP Narendra Modi had announced in the run up to the 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi also slammed the Congress, saying the party cannot live without power.
 
 
