THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: For the first time, the   would present to the   ( ) the reasons for its professed stand that the state needs no more new engineering colleges in the current scenario. 

 Though AICTE had, last year, sought the views of state governments on various technical and management courses to which the council is directly responsible for, none of the state governments responded to the same. However, at least five states have now communicated to AICTE their perspective plan for courses, especially engineering.
 
 "The state government has decided to submit perspective plan to AICTE at the earliest. The plan has to be a comprehensive one and should be convincing enough to establish the government stand that sanction need not be given for setting up more engineering and polytechnic colleges in private sector," top officials in state higher education department said.
 
 According to AICTE, the decisions on giving approval to applications for setting up new colleges would be taken on the basis of the perspective plans of respective state governments/union territories.
 
 "Based on the perspective plan of the state government/UT concerned, if any state government/UT has not given   for setting up of new institution, the scrutiny/rescrutiny committee shall reject the application," says the approval process handbook for 2018-19 published by AICTE.
 
 "The perspective plan of state governments and union territories is not a must. But, it would make matters relating to approval for new institutions more smooth. Though states/UTs were requested to communicate their stand on new applications, within in a specific time period, most governments chose not to respond to such calls," said AICTE director  . 
 
 On several occasions in the last couple of years, AICTE had given approval to institutions to which the state government had rejected approval. Managements of such institutions, both engineering colleges and polytechnic colleges, had then sought legal remedies and the high court had even directed the state government to give approval to the institutions that had already received the clearance from AICTE. 
 
