BENGALURU: Apple’s Taiwanese supplier Wistron appears close to acquiring an over 100-acre land parcel on the outskirts of Bengaluru. The objective is to expand capacity and assemble more of Apple’s products in India, including the iPhone 6s.

 The proposed facility is likely to come up in Devanahalli or in the Narasapur industrial area in Kolar district, and would be one of the largest original equipment manufacturer (OEM) clusters developed by a Taiwanese manufacturer in India.
 
 “Wistron has shown interest in setting up a large manufacturing plant in Bengaluru and the state government is working closely to ensure it happens at the earliest,” Karnataka IT minister Priyank Kharge told TOI.
 
 News agency Reuters reported on Wednesday that Wistron is likely to invest $157 million (Rs 1,000 crore) to develop the site.
 
 Wistron already has a unit in Bengaluru’s industrial hub of Peenya where it has been assembling the low-cost iPhone SE since last year, a way for   to sell older versions at comparatively lower prices and gain more foothold in a country whose mobile market is dominated by China’s   and South Korea’s Samsung.
 
 With the new facility, Wistron will assemble completely-knocked down (CKD) and semi-knocked down (SKD) kits for mobile phones and PCs, an industry executive said on condition that he not be named.
 
 Gururaj A, country head of  , declined to comment on queries related to Wistron and Apple. Emails sent to Apple did not elicit a response.
 
 The move underscores the importance of India to Apple. Though India accounts for less than 2% of the California-based company’s revenue, it is one of the fastest growing, and becoming more important as sales in China stagnate. India is only the third country to assemble iPhones; the others are Brazil and China. 
 
 Apple has three suppliers from India, among its top 200 suppliers. These include Flextronics and Salcomp , both based in Tamil Nadu, apart from Wistron.
 
 Sources said that top officials from Wistron had come to Bengaluru last week to assess the progress made and the land deal is expected to be struck soon.
 
 Wistron, through ICT in India, operates as an original design manufacturer (ODM) offering full-spectrum solutions including design, manufacturing and post-sales support – repair, refurbishment and supply chain management. It also manages returns for its customers and logistics and warehouse distribution. Apart from Apple, it services brands like Lenovo, Dell and HP. It employs more than 1,000 people in two of its Peenya facilities, one of which is spread over 1.4 lakh sqft. 
 
 Tarun Pathak, senior analyst at Counterpoint Research, said the duties on completely built units (CBUs) have increased from 10% to 15%. “In the case of iPhones, Apple could increasingly assemble their older generation phones here. There was no component duty so far and there could be a change in this. Higher duties could attract component manufacturers to India. There could be higher duties for camera modules, printed circuit boards. These could then be manufactured in the country,” he said.
