NEW DELHI: It’s that time of the year when the dargah of   gets the most footfall. On Thursday, the celebration of his   began with much fanfare. 

 Sufis are not mourned; rather, their “union with God” is celebrated every year by their followers. “It’s the return of the lover to his source, a reunion with the Almighty that’s an occasion of immense happiness,” said Syed Kashif Ali Nizami, head of the dargah. 
 
 It’s said that Nizamuddin, the patron saint of Delhi, had willed that there should be sama (musical festivities) at his funeral procession. That tradition has continued for over 700 years now. 
 
 “Over 1.5 lakh visitors came for last year’s urs, reaffirming that the shrine is at the centre of the city’s multicultural ethos. We might by living in troubled times, but the numbers are steadily rising,” said Bilal Nizami, a duago (a person who holds prayers) at the shrine. 
 
 Hindu yogi Sahil Nath, who says he has been attending the urs for several decades, agrees. “People come here when hope escapes them. There is no distinction of religion. Only the heart should be pure. All religions teach the same thing,” Nath said. 
 
 Faquirs, qawwals from other Sufi dargahs from across the country attend the urs. 
 
 Across the marble courtyard, hundreds of people sit under a shamiyana where qawwali troupes from other dargahs come to perform. But for most visitors, the shrine of Nizamuddin, also called Mehboob-e-Ilahi, is a symbol of the pluralistic and syncretic culture of Delhi. 
 
 Nicolas, a Scandinavian visitor, said to him music represents Sufism. 
 
 Sanjiv Rao from Malviya Nagar said that the shrine has given him many good, and at times miraculous, experiences. “Having experienced it myself, I must have brought several hundred people here. It provides peace and fulfilment to all,” Rao said. 
 
 Author-historian Rana Safvi said the message of love, peace and compassion towards each other continues to bring people to the shrine. “Even the meals served as langar here are without onion and garlic. We have always been open to everyone. In his time, Auliya would feed all the poor first and then take his meal. He stayed away from the rulers and was a pro-poor egalitarian figure loved by the masses,” said Nizami. 
 
 The five-day urs would continue till late night on Sunday. Qawwalis have been starting at 6.30pm and lasting till 10pm. But since Saturday would be bada kul—the ‘big day’ when Nizamuddin actually left this world—qawwalis would continue till 3am. 
 
 
