RAJKOT: The brutal murder of a young   man Timbi village of Bhavnagar district on March 29 has turned out to be a crime committed by a   community man,  

 The SC/ST cell of the Bhavnagar police claimed to have cracked the two-and-a-half-month old murder,which was earlier alleged to have been committed by the upper caste community people of village. Father of the victim  , 21, had named some upper caste men and alleged that they had killed him for his hobby of horse riding. 
 
 Detailed investigation aided by scrutiny of mobile tower location of over 100 people from Timbi and near-by Piprali villages ruled out involvement of those named by Rathod’s father. Police have arrested   Tharesa, a native of Padana village near Dhandhuka in Ahmedabad district, for killing Rathod. 
 
 Tharesa was living in Piprali village and tilling the land of farmer Bhotha Lathiya on partnership basis for the last two years. He lived there with his wife and mother.
 
 “Pradeep had gained notoriety in the village for teasing girls. He used to even loiter around on his horse near the girls’ school in Timbi village which often angered the upper caste people. He then started eyeing Munna’s wife and often passed lewd comments at her. Munna told us during questioning that Rathod even demanded sexual favours from his wife. Munna had even warned him. However, Rathod had threatened him, said PP Piroziya, deputy superintendent of police, SC/CT cell.
 
 On March 29, Munna was chopping some bushes on the Timbi-Piprali Road when he saw Rathod going on the horse. “He immediately understood that Rathod was going to his house as he had been eyeing his wife. Munna stopped him but Rathod slashed him with the horse’s whip. In a fit of rage, Munna slashed his throat with the sickle, killing him on the spot. He then dumped the sickle near a causeway and went home,” said Piroziya.
 
 Munna told his wife and mother that he had killed Rathod and that they should leave for their native Padana village immediately. On the same night, they left only taking clothes along and leaving behind the household items.
 
 Police launched a detailed investigation of mobile locations of all suspected persons and recorded statements of nearly 100 people, including those from the dominant Darbar community and those named by the victim’s father. “Only Munna’s mobile showed the location of the crime and the next day, it showed the location of Padana. We got suspicious and picked up him on Saturday night,” said Piroziya.
 
 
