PATNA: The state government on Tuesday handed over three of its power generation plants to   ( ) Ltd on 30-year lease. The plants are Barauni Thermal Power Station (BTPS), Kanti Bijli Utpadan Nigam Limited (KBUNL) and   (NPGCL).

 A memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed by   State Power Generation Company Ltd managing director R Lakshmanan and NTPC director (commercial) A K Gupta in the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar and Union minister of state for power R K Singh. NTPC CMD Gurdeep Singh was also present. The state cabinet on April 17 had approved the transfer of the three plants to NTPC.
 
 Energy department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit said the transfer of the three plants would save the state Rs875.06 crore annually and the amount would be used in providing cheaper and uninterrupted power to the people.
 
 “Being the biggest power generation company, NTPC is capable of efficiently operating the three coal-based thermal power plants. Besides, coal will be available to these plants at cheaper rates as NTPC gets subsidy on coal procurement for its plants. Also, loans at cheaper interest rates from market are available to NTPC, which will again financially benefit the operation of these plants,” Pratyaya explained.
 
 BTPS has two functional units (6 and 7) with 110MW capacity each while its two extension units (8 and 9) having the capacity of 250MW each are likely to be made functional soon. Bihar gets 100% electricity produced from all BTPS plants. 
 
 Similarly, KBUNL has two functional units (1 and 2) with 110MW capacity each while its two extension units (3 and 4) having 195MW capacity each are to start commercial production soon. Bihar gets 100% electricity produced from the existing units and to get 75% from the two extension units. 
 
 NPGCL, on the other hand, has three functional units having 660MW capacity each. Bihar gets 78% of the electricity produced from this plant while the remaining 22% goes to other states. 
 
 Elaborating on the financial benefits of the lease, Lakshmanan said: “The rate at which the state government buys electricity from these plants for supplying to different categories of consumers will reduce substantially with lower cost of production. Accordingly, the state will be able to save Rs684.07 crore per year on procuring electricity from the four BTPS units, Rs54.69 crore from the KBUNL units and Rs136.30 crore from the NPGCL. This will ultimately reflect in cheaper power availability for different categories of consumers.” 
 
 
