Jodhpur: Total anarchy was witnessed in the city. Supporters of bandh not only forced the shops to close but also attacked people, misbehaved with women and damaged public property. Policemen were also injured and close to 50 persons were rounded up by the end of the day. 

 Police tried to disperse the mob at some places resorting to lathi-charge and firing of tear gas shells. Later as the reports of violent incidents kept pouring in from the entire division, internet services were suspended in all the 6 districts of the division including Jodhpur, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Pali, Sirohi and Barmer except in the jurisdiction of Jodhpur commissionerate. However, section 144 was invoked in the city.
 
 In Jodhpur, the bandh supporters attempted to uproot the railway tracks in Rai Ka Bagh. They stopped a goods train. Two passenger trains were also stopped. They burnt tyres at many places.
 
 Public transport system also came to halt as the bandh supporters did not allow the vehicles to ply and forced the passengers to get down. They also stopped the roadways buses making it difficult for the passengers to travel to their respective destinations. 
 
 About two dozen vehicles were damaged including a city bus. Some of them also tried to enter the high court premises and collectorate to give memorandum but police stopped them. They also blocked the road at Jalori Gate Circle, main spot of their operations and near MGH Hospital and did not even allow the ambulances to pass through.
 
 Two traders were stabbed by the bandh supporters in 9 Mile area, when they resisted the attempt to shut the shops. They were immediately rushed to the hospital where they were discharged after primary treatment.
 
 About four dozen shops were plundered and damaged. The bandh supporters also attempted to set some shops on fire in industrial area. 
 
 Tension also gripped Sanchore town in Jalore district when the bandh supporters were confronted with members of Karni Sena and others. Later the district administration invoked section 144 in Jalore district considering the seriousness of the matter.
 
 In Sirohi also, the bandh supporters were confronted by the shop keepers in the main market, when they were forced to shut their shops. The supporters were later made to back off without getting the market closed. Section 144 was also invoked in Jodhpur’s Phalodi sub-division. A policeman was seriously injured in Phalodi also, who was later referred to Jodhpur.
 
 
