PATNA: Mercury has crossed 30 degrees Celsius mark at Patna and many places in Bihar even as February is still to end. Meteorologists have claimed that weather is likely to remain the same and hot weather can give an early and nasty surprise over the next few days.

 India Meteorological Department (IMD) stated in its all India weather bulletin on Friday afternoon that maximum as well as minimum temperatures are expected to rise by 1-2 degrees C over east, central and peninsular India during next 2-3 days.
 
  conditions are almost over as the minimum temperature is now being recorded one or two notches above normal. The morning minimum surged from 13.4 degrees C recorded on Thursday to 15.2 degrees C on Friday.
 
 Patna meteorological centre predicted the minimum temperature in the state capital would hover around 15-16 degrees C over the next four to five days as well.
 
 In weather parlance, winter is said to have departed from Bihar when the minimum temperature remains above 13 degrees C for over four consecutive days at this time of the year.
 
 Patna meteorological centre director S Sengupta said, “Maximum and minimum temperature at Patna are expected to be around 32 and 15 degrees C respectively over the next few days. People can expect warm days ahead.”
 
 Meteorological experts too made similar claims. “We are expecting above normal temperature at least till March end,” said Pradhan Parth Sarthi, secretary at Patna chapter of India Meteorological Society.
 
 Officials at Patna meteorological centre said the normal maximum temperature for remaining days of February is around 28 degrees C, whereas the normal for the minimum is around 13 degrees C.
 
 Met office is expecting westerly winds to blow with an average speed of 5-8kmph.
 
 Health experts have cautioned residents against temperature fluctuations. “The prevailing fluctuation in temperature leads to viral infections, especially among children and elderly people. Besides, residents should carry light woollens in the early morning and evening hours and avoid airconditioners as of now,” said city-based physician Dr Diwakar Tejashwi.
 
 
