BARGARI (FARIDKOT): Many Sikh organizations converged at Bargari village of Faridkot district on Friday to observe the three years of the theft of Guru Granth Sahib bir from   village gurdwara.

 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) lent support to the cause of the Sikhs as half a dozen of its MLAs, including leader of the Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira, participated in the congregation.
 
 The gathering demanded arrest of those behind the act of sacrilege at Bargari, arrest of the policemen responsible for the killing of two Sikh protesters at Behbal Kalan on October 14, 2015, and release of Sikh prisoners who have completed their sentences and are still lodged in various jails across the country.
 
 On the occasion, Sarbat Khalsa-appointed acting jathedar of Akal Takht Dhian Singh Mand started an indefinite dharna at the grain market in Bargari on Friday evening. He announced to stage the protest till the three demands put forth by the congregation were met.
 
 Mand, who is former MP from  , said the previous Shiromani Akali Dal-BJP regime and the current   government in Punjab had failed to solve the cases of sacrilege.
 
 On June 1, 2015, the Bir of Guru Granth Sahib was stolen from the gurdwara of Burj Jawahar Singh Wala. Pages of the holy book were found scattered at Bargari on October 12, 2015, which led to widespread protests in which two Sikhs were killed in police action at nearby Behbal Kalan village.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Khaira said it was not a political issue and the AAP had supported it because every Sikh was affected by sacrilege. “We don’t want any political mileage out of it. Both the SAD and the Congress have shown their true colours and did nothing to solve the cases. They have rather increased the sense of anger among the Sikhs due to various incidents of desecration.”
 
 Khaira said they fully supported the three demands of the Sikh organizations and would raise the matter in the Punjab assembly. Apart from Khaira, AAP MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Baljinder Kaur, Jagdev Singh Kamali, Kulwant Singh Pandora and Baldev Singh were also present.
 
 The Sikh activists and Sarbat Khalsa-appointed jathedar of Takht Damdama Sahib, Baljit Singh Daduwal, appealed to the community members to join hands against the SAD-BJP and the Congress. Daduwal said the demands of Sikhs could be met by joining hands and getting ready to make sacrifices. SAD (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann asked the Sikhs to raise their issues at the international fora.
 
 
