SECUNDERABAD: The ‘illegal’ tag has come back to haunt 35,000 residents in   area as they are set to lose their right to vote for encroaching upon defence land and staying there for more than five decades. Chief executive officer of SCB will take a decision whether to allow them to vote as elections in eight civilian wards are set to be held in 2020.

 This development comes close on the heels of deletion of over 70,000 names from the voter list after an intensive electoral revision (IER) survey carried out by SCB revealed they had encroached upon defence land in the Cantonment area. The survey was done following a directive from the Supreme Court. The apex court, in its orders issued to 62 Cantonments, clearly mentioned that voters who had encroached upon defence land would lose right to exercise franchise in   elections.
 
  
  
 
 The survey, carried out by the SCB authorities, had also covered the eight wards — Shiva temple (ward No I),   (ward No II), Mudfort, Uttaraiah Huts (ward No III), Ramalayam (ward No IV), 108 Bazar (ward No V), Nandmuri Nagar (ward No VI),   (ward No VII) and   (ward No VIII).
 
 The survey was completed last week. “We found that in Annanagar in ward No II, over 20,000 voters will lose their right to vote as they have illegally occupied defence land,” highly-placed sources in SCB told STOI. Senior officials put the number of illegal occupants at at 35,000.
 
 “In some colonies, some of the occupants have been residing in defence land for over six decades. We have no idea if the land belongs to defence or civic corporation. We have constructed pucca houses on the land as there was no objection from either Army or Cantonment Board,” a resident of Nehru Centenary Colony told STOI.
 
 The aggrieved residents said the authorities should find a way-out so that they can vote in the elections. “The officials are saying that we may lose the right to exercise our franchise which is ridiculous. What were they doing all these years,” wondered a resident of Annanagar.
 
