CHANDIGARH: Even as it continues its to take on Mehatpur SHO Parminder Singh Bajwa, Punjab government said, “It categorically rejected the charge of unauthorized tapping of phones.” This comes amid charges of phone tapping by SAD and AAP leaders as part of the controversy over a police case against Congress’ Shahkot assembly bypoll candidate  .

 
 
 A Punjab government spokesperson on Tuesday went on to allege a major political conspiracy against the Amarinder Singh-led   government ahead of the Shahkot byelection. Urging the election commission to take cognizance of the government’s request for immediate transfer of the SHO “in the interest of a free and fair bypoll”, the spokesperson said the recent developments in the constituency had exposed the nexus between the SHO and certain SAD and AAP leaders.
 
 “The SHO had himself been heard bragging to his colleagues in the police station and to friends about his conversations with AAP’s Sukhpal Singh Khaira and SAD’s  ,” said a statement issued by the government. “The government has never indulged in any such illegal acts involving violation of privacy and human rights of individuals, nor would do so under any circumstances,” added another government statement. “The   has simply picked up a part of the CM’s statement to divert attention from the operative part of his remarks, which had exposed the blatant nexus of the SHO with senior SAD and AAP leadership,” it added. 
 
 The statement pointed out that the SHO’s role in the entire episode had been questionable from the very outset, considering the undue haste with which he had filed the FIR against Laddi, instead of merely initiating an inquiry as directed by the  . “The SHO’s conduct after filing the FIR also smacked of partisanship and political bias, which completely eliminated the prospects of a free and fair conduct of the byelection,” said the spokesperson.
 
 The SHO’s behaviour so far clearly showed that he was acting in cahoots with the Opposition, said the spokesperson, requesting EC’s intervention to independently probe the entire episode and take all necessary steps to ensure that there is no influence or interference in the smooth and transparent conduct of the poll process in Shahkot.
 
 ‘Khaira hasn’t denied conversation’
 
 The Congress government has pointed out that AAP leader Sukhpal Khaira has not denied the alleged conversation referred to by the chief minister, said the spokesperson. It was evident from Khaira’s response that the conversation cited by Amarinder had indeed taken place as the SHO himself had been found talking about it to all and sundry, the spokesperson added. He further urged the EC to investigate reports of the SHO issuing threats to mediapersons in a bid to prevent them from doing their duty in a free and fair manner.
 
