PATNA: Chief minister   on Monday said the   (IGIMS) here would be developed into a 2,500-bed hospital.

 Addressing the fourth convocation ceremony of IGIMS, the CM said the hospital should aim to increase its MBBS degree seats from 100 to 250. “IGIMS should become such a hospital that it comes at par with   in terms of quality of medical service provided,” Nitish said.
 
 The CM also asked IGIMS administration to quicken the pace of work so as to provide liver transplant facilities at the earliest. “The government medical college in Madhepura is nearly complete. It will start taking admissions after its inspection by the Medical Council of India probably by the end of March,” Nitish said.
 
 The state government has also planned to take up the construction of the medical college of Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) at Bihta. The construction of the medical college building, which had started in 2011, was transferred to the state government in 2015. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said 90% of construction work had already been completed.
 
 Modi also announced that some of the drugs needed for the treatment of cancer, kidney and diabetes patients will be included in the essential drugs list of the state. 
 
 Meanwhile, fourteen MBBS toppers and a PG topper were awarded gold medals at the IGIMS’s convocation ceremony. Ten toppers from paramedical courses were awarded gold medals. Altogether 94 MBBS, 38 paramedical, six postgraduate and four superspecialty students were awarded degrees by the CM. 
 
  from the department of biochemistry was announced the overall topper of 2013 MBBS batch. Monika Raj, Shivani and Riya Anand bagged gold medals among MBBS toppers. Among other toppers were Ghulam Arshad, Anjali, Komal Bharti, Shahnila Qasim, Suman, Nimisha Bajaj, Pragati Raj, Prateek Kumar, Prity Kumari and Swati Suman.
 
 PG pass-out Dr Soma Bhattacharya was awarded Shri Rameshwar Paswan-Dr K H Raghvendra Gold Medal in MD (anaesthesiology).
 
 The toppers in paramedical courses included Pushpanjali, Puja Gupta, Soni Kumari, Neeti Shikha, Priyanka Singh, Bandana Jyoti, Kunar Anand, Shubham Raj, Sanila Shree, Bhola Kumar, Md Nadeem and Pranav Kumar. 
 
 
