Madurai: Nearly six days after a fire ravaged the Veera Vasantharaya mandapam in Madurai Meenakshi Amman temple, debris continued to fall, worrying temple authorities. On Tuesday night, a large beam from the roof near the Pasupatheeswarar shrine in the mandapam came crashing down with a loud noise. 

 An expert committee, comprising, structural engineers, archaeologists and stapathis, has been constituted to study the extent of damage and to prepare an estimate for restoring the fire ravaged mandapam of the Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple. The committee will begin work once it gets the approval of the state government. Meanwhile, temple joint commissioner N Natarajan has issued notice to the shop keepers to vacate the temple premises. 
 
 Temple sources say that as many as five to six pillars in the Veera Vasantharayar mandapam have been extensively damaged and cracked beyond repair and will have to be replaced.
 
 “They cannot be restored and the condition of these pillars is making it dangerous for even workers involved in the removal of the debris. Some of the fallen structures are so big that they will either have to be broken down or removed using machinery’’ said the sources.
 
 Breaking up the debris into smaller pieces is, however, not the immediate solution as even the smallest vibration could impact the damaged structure and result in its collapse. Concrete and stone debris were being removed slowly and cautiously to ensure there is no disturbance.
 
 Meanwhile, engineers from the state HR & CE department and stapathis are in the process of providing scaffolding to the damaged mandapam. Around 200 iron girders are being used for the purpose. “We are very concerned that the workers do not suffer even minor injuries in the clean-up as debris continues to fall,” said an engineer. Though ministers said the restoration work would be completed in six months, it could take much longer. The loss due to the damage caused to the structure could run into crores of rupees.
 
 Fire and Rescue Services deputy director of southern region P Saravanakumar inspected the temple on Wednesday and said strengthening work was being carried out in the affected area and removal of debris would be speeded up after the structure was strengthened. Earlier, district collector K Veera Raghava Rao inspected workers putting up the scaffolding. 
 
 
