COIMBATORE: The higher education department has formed a committee to draft guidelines to prevent sexual harassment in educational institutions. The decision comes in the wake of reports about an assistant professor in a college at  , allegedly trying to lure girl students to provide sexual favours to senior officials at Madurai Kamaraj University.

 “The committee will submit the guidelines on Monday. The higher education department, in consultation with the higher education minister, would finalise the guidelines. The guidelines would be issued to the universities and colleges within a week,’’ higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal told reporters here on Friday.
 
 “The committee has vice-chancellors of   and Tamil Nadu Open University as members. It is expected to recommend detailed guidelines to avoid suspected exploitations of students like that in Devengar College in Arupukottai. A strong grievance redressal mechanism would be established in the college-level. The committee would study the problems faced by students as well as staff and would also take into account   (UGC) guidelines while preparing the report. The committee members would also consult the higher education minister on drafting the guidelines. We are also considering to establish a formal mechanism at state-level,” Paliwal said.
 
 The official, who was in the city to attend a meeting at  , said those found guilty of exploiting students in Arupukottai college would be punished.
 
 Refuting allegations that the higher education department was aware of the alleged exploitation of students in the Arupukottai college, Paliwal said the department came to know about the issue only on last Sunday. “We immediately directed the college authorities and regional joint director (RJD) to file a police complaint,” he said.
 
 Speaking about the appointment of VCs, he said that as per the changes in the University Act during May 2017, a search committee would be formed six months before the retirement of incumbent VC and the report would be submitted within four months.
 
 As the VCs of   and Annamalai University are getting ready to retire, the department has already formed a search committee as part of the VC selection procedure, Paliwal said, adding that apart from the prescribing qualification changes, the selection procedure was not changed.
 
 About Rs 3crore has been allotted to construct a new building for the English department and Computer Application department at Bharathiar University. Multiple centres worth Rs 15.5 crores are under construction on the university premises. 
 
 With the sanction given by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), the university is to get Rs 20crore under second phase of the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) fund. It had received Rs 20 crore under phase one.
 
 
