This year, flyers will get more space in the city  .

 
 An airport official said many projects aimed at passenger amenities would be completed in 2018. “Last year, we tried to provide the best possible services to flyers.
 
 
 There will be no change in approach this year, too,” he said.
 
 
 Soon, new chairs will be installed at the facility. New trolleys are also on the cards.
 
 
 The extension of the terminal building was done last year. “We had started the work in January, 2017. Besides the arrival and departure gates, the entire structure of the front side of the building has been extended to around six feet,” he said.
 
 
 The airport at present witnesses around 160 flight movements daily. Officials claimed that the new terminal building plan would be the perfect way out.
 
 
 “Though the project will be completed by 2020-21, the process has started. A consultant —   — has been appointed. We have moved towards going digital with e-boarding pass machines and electronic grievance redressal machines. We are also planning to add more waiting space in the terminal in phases,” another official said.
 
 
 Businessman  , a frequent flyer, said, “The facilities added are not enough. I feel worried every time my flight is delayed because things become chaotic and messy at the airport. I had to remain in the aircraft for 45-60 minutes twice after the flight landed at the Pune airport. The crew blamed lack of aircraft landing bay for the agonising wait.”
 
 
 The airport has eight parking bays at present. The number will go up to 13 soon.
 
 
 Two months ago, Kewat had to walk through rain to board a flight because the city airport has only two passenger boarding bridges. Three more are being constructed.
 
 
 SAFER STATION
 
 
 Cut to Pune station. The new foot overbridge (FOB) is expected to be ready by the middle of the year.
 
 
 “Our aim is to complete it by March 31. Moreover, the work on the skywalk, which will connect platform number 6 to the existing and the under-construction FOB, should be ready in January,” Pune rail division public relations officer   said.
 
 
 Shiva Ghatge, who travels to Mumbai for work, said, “Railways seems to be putting a lot of stress on safety. This matter should be looked into seriously.”
 
