GOLD COAST: Weightlifting is not that simple as these super humans make it look on television. Ask  , winner of India’s second gold at the   here. After convincing her mother to take up the sport while in Class IX, Sanjita thought of quitting the sport many times as she toiled day in and day out at national camps. Success was to take its own sweet time.

 
 
 
 Four years after winning the gold in the Glasgow edition – and battling a back injury in the intervening period – Sanjita emerged on top of the women’s 53kg competition on Friday. In Glasgow, she won in 48 kg but then the injury forced her to move up the scales and on Friday, it was to prove a boon as it spelt trouble for the defending champion, who is a lifting legend in her own right. 
 
 Loa Dika Toua of Papua New Guinea – the first woman ever to lift weights at the Olympics when it was introduced for women at the 2000 Sydney Games – was in no mood to relinquish her Glasgow 2014 crown, but at 33 years it would prove too much against a Manipur girl nearly a decade younger, and she could only emerge second best.
 
 Sanjita opened with a snatch of 81 kg and later improved that to 84kg, a new Games record, on her third lift even as Toua failed on her third attempt with two kilos less on the bar. The story was repeated in clean and jerk, as Chanu opened with a 104 kg against Toua’s 102 and improved it to 108. Her rival now went all out looking to lift 109 and then 113, but she failed on both the occasions.
 
 Chanu now had the gold in her bag but in her sights, were two more Games records — 111 kg in and 193 set by Toua in 2014. The Indian went for it asking the weight to be hiked to 112 kg but ambition got the better of her and she couldn’t hold on to her lift.
 
 “The bar fell off. My push wasn’t good enough so it didn’t work,” Sanjita told TOI a bit disappointed at not being able to putting her name in all three places in the Games record books. “My fight was against Loa who had won the gold last time in 53kg. So I’m happy that I won the gold beating her. But last year at the Commonwealth Championships here I had lifted three kilos more,” she added.
 
 Despite the thumping show, Sanjita was still not sure how her career would pan out. “I’m 24 now but I don’t think I can go on for another 5-6 years. Once, I get an injury then it is really tough and that’s a constant worry. We are repeatedly lifting weights during training and so there is every chance of getting injured. Sometimes it could be your back, or else it could be your elbow. Many times, we train ignoring the pain. And once you are injured then you can’t do any more training and that’s it,” Sanjita said.
 
 Sanjita’s fears gained further validation with the ongoing impasse over physio’s availability for Indian lifter at Gold Coast. “And here, we don’t even get the help of our physio as he is not allowed to come near us,” the champion said.
 
 Sanjita, who works as a senior TTE in the Railways, said it has been quite a journey from a remote village in Manipur. “My family was poor so we couldn’t even afford a TV. But after the gold in Glasgow, I got cash awards and with that I bought a piece of land in Imphal city and now I want to build a house there,” she said. “There is lot of crime in our village and so I moved to the city and was living on rent. But it used to be tough when my family members visited me. And that’s why I want my own house,” Sanjita said.
 
 
 There was a bronze for India in the men’s 69kg, with 18-year-old   becoming the youngest Indian to win a lifting medal at the Games. It was an event that saw exciting action with Samoan Vaipava Ioane threatening to snatch the gold till his last lift.
 
 
  
  
 
 Twice the Samoan came close but it was not good enough. Gareth Evans of Wales won the gold with a total of 299 kg (136 +163). Indika Mudiyanselage of Sri Lanka took the silver at 297 (137 +160) and Lather the bronze at 295 (136 +159).
 
 “I came here determined to win a medal and I’ve done that,” the 18-year-old from Shadipur village in Haryana said. Asked about his failed last attempts, he said: “I gave my 100 per cent but I couldn’t finish it.” The youngster was in pain after hurting his knee as he tried to lift 162 kilos but there was no physio to help him.
 
 
