MUMBAI: A day after a   and her sister injured in a   at a  , police have registered an   against their parents and the owner of the house for  . Police said the parents were booked for leaving the children unsupervised at home. The BMC has issued a show-cause notice to the society.

 The girls’ father, Shankar Dhanu, works as a watchman. Dhanu, his wife, Sita, and their two daughters—18-month-old Debi her four-year-old sister Uma—lived in a room constructed illegally above the building’s pump house. Police have booked an unnamed house owner and the parents of the toddler under IPC section 304 (A) (causing death due to negligence), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others).
 
 “The house owner has been booked as the room was an unauthorized construction. We have learnt that the house changed hands. We are trying to determine which of the two owners was responsible. The BMC has inspected the site. We will discuss with them as to when the unauthorized construction was made, who the owner was then and whether the owner sought permissions from the civic body," said senior inspector Pandit Thakre, Bandra police.
 
 Officials said they are also trying to determine which one of the parents was tasked with looking after the two children, but left them alone. Shankar was out on duty and Sita had gone to buy vegetables. The FIR has been lodged by a fire department official. According to police, the blaze was caused due to a short-circuit. “The electrical wiring was faulty which led to a short circuit. Sparks fell on garments and caught fire. There was tremendous smoke. The toddler died due to suffocation,” a police official said. 
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner of H west ward Sharad Ughade said, “A notice is being issued to the society for changing existing use of premises without nod. It appears to us that the terrace was also being used without permission. A separate notice is also being issued to the fitness centre in the building to check if it had all the permissions.” 
 
 Chief fire officer P Rahangdale said, “Such kind of illegalities where lives of other people are being endangered will not be tolerated. It has become common that the pump room or area around it is being used for watchman to live which is not allowed. This is the reason we filed a police complaint.”
 
 
