Surat: The Nature Club Surat (NCS), a city-based non-governmental organization, found finless porpoise washed on the banks of river Tapi at the ONGC bridge near Magdalla.  NCS volunteers said they received a distress call from a resident in Magdalla for an unusual marine animal spotted on the riverbank near ONGC bridge. The volunteers of NCS immediately responded to the call and visited the spot and found the female finless porpoise stranded on the riverbank in dead condition. The Indo Pacific Finless Porpoise, which is generally found in pairs, is one of seven porpoise species and protected as Schedule-I animal under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. This mammal is now endangered marine mammal because of poaching and plastic waste dumped in the sea by humans.  This mammal was first spotted at Navdi Ovara in Nanpura in 2006 and after a very long period, it was spotted in the river at ONGC bridge. The finless porpoise lives in the coastal waters of Asia, especially around Japan, Korea, China, Indonesia, Malaysia, India and Bangladesh.  A volunteer of NCS said, “The female finless porpoise was 53 inches long. During the post mortem of the mammal, internal injury and blood clotting was found. It is suspected that the mammal was hit by trawlers, which may have caused internal bleeding and death.”  “It is after many years that we spotted finless porpoise in the river. This mammal may have taken the sea route and entered into the river from near Dumas. It is unfortunate that the mammal was found in dead condition and it was handed over to the forest department officials for further process,” NCS president Snehal Patel said. Patel added, “Finless porpoise belongs to mammal family so they give birth to babies. Finless porpoises can grow to as much as 2.27 metre in length and can weigh up to 72 kg, although most are rather smaller. They reportedly eat fish, shrimp and squid in the sea. Like other porpoises, their behaviour tends to be not as energetic and showy as that of dolphins.” 