
  Students of Science stream in the city took a lead in   ( ) Class XII exams, the results of which were declared on Saturday. Most of the top scorers in the city were science students.
 
  With 98.4% marks,   topped the city. Dixit scored 492 marks out of 500 and got 100 marks each in computer science and chemistry. She told TOI, “There is always scope for improvement and though I am happy with my results, I think that I could have performed better. It is only hard work which is key to success. Students should listen to their parents and teachers as they wish only the best for us.’’ Dixit now hopes to pursue her dream of making it to   and has already qualified IIT-mains exams. 
  
  With 98.2% marks, Harsh Agarwal of commerce stream bagged the first rank at Shri Gulab Rai Montessori Senior Secondary School. Harsh, who scored 491 marks out of 500, said, “I was expecting 95% and hence, I am elated with the results. I do not believe in studying for eight to nine hours. If one has studied for two hours with concentration, it is enough.’’
  
  Harsh, who had to reappear for his economics exam after CBSE reconducted it following a paper leak, said it was no less than “mental stress”. 
  
  A student of Commerce stream, Palak Vatwani of Shri Gulab Rai Montessori Senior Secondary School who got 98% marks, said, “After analyzing both economics exams, I came to the conclusion that re-exam was better. However, I was anxious when I learnt that I have to rewrite the economics exam.’’
  
  Vatwani added that she used to breakdown during exams but the support of her family and teachers helped her to cope with stress. “Her aim is to make it into a prominent college of Delhi University for pursuing Economics (Honours). She would get so nervous that she would start crying thinking what would happen if she failed to score above 95%,’’ said her mother, Swati.
  
  Pragati Agarwal, who too secured 98% marks, aspires to become a chartered accountant. A student of Brij Bhushan Lal Public School, Pragati said, “Our teachers always advised us to concentrate on studies during school hours and exam time should be left only for revision and not memorizing any chapter. This advice was very useful and I was confidant of getting good marks in the exams.’’
  
  In Woodrow Senior Secondary School, Ayush Agarwal of Science stream, bagged the top slot with 97% marks. While Prakhar Pandey of Science stream topped in   by securing 96.33% marks.
  
  Another student of science stream, Avani Mittal, bagged the first rank at   with 96.27% marks. Bishop Conrad Senior Secondary School’s topper Aditi Varshney of Science stream secured 95.2%.
  
  A student of science, Sparsh Singh Dewri, who secured 94.6%, topped in Radha Madhav Public School. Akshay Sharma with 94% bagged first rank at Sacred Hearts School while SR International School’s topper was Harshit Gangwar with 93.4% marks.
  
  Deepak Agarwal, CBSE city coordinator, said there are 56 CBSE-affiliated schools in Bareilly but the data of number of students who appeared and passed the exam was yet to be released.
