Gurgaon: The infighting in the state   now seems to have taken a toll on the city’s key infrastructure projects. The opening of two underpasses — one at Signature Tower and the other at Rajiv Chowk — on NH-8 has been postponed as the Gurgaon MP and the local MLA have locked horns over the inauguration of the projects.

 These two underpasses were slated for inauguration by chief minister   and Badshapur MLA   on January 20. But, officials said, the inauguration has now been put on hold as Gurgaon MP Rao Inderjit Singh made it clear that it should be done by a central minister, preferably  .
 
 “The rivalry of the two Gurgaon leaders is well known. The opening of the two underpasses has been put on hold only because of the Gurgaon MP’s insistence that a central minister should inaugurate the projects instead of the state government solely taking the credit,” said a senior official.
 
 “In all probability, the inauguration of the two projects is now likely to be take place either on Tuesday or Wednesday by junior road transport and highways minister Mansukh Mandaviya in the presence of the Haryana CM and other ministers,” he added. 
 
 Talking to TOI, Rao Inderjit admitted he wanted Gadkari to come for the inauguration. “This is because we wanted to discuss with him pending issues related to other two underpasses at Iffco Chowk and Hero Honda Chowk, which are still under construction. However, since he is travelling, the MoS will be doing the inauguration,” he said.
 
 However, Badshapur MLA and state cabinet minister Rao Narbir attributed the delay in the opening of the underpasses to an important party meeting on Saturday.
 
 “An important meeting will take place on that day due to which the inauguration had to be postponed. The chief minister will be in Delhi on Monday evening and I have requested him to see if it is possible to inaugurate the two underpasses on Tuesday,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the first GMDA meeting that was to be held on Saturday, has got postponed. 
 
 “The meeting got postponed as the GMDA rules are yet to be notified. The meeting will be held on January 31,” said GMDA chief executive officer V Umashankar.
 
 The two underpasses, along with another one at Iffco Chowk, are being constructed by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to decongest the expressway and ensure smooth traffic flow from one side of the city to another. 
 
 
