
JAIPUR:   recruitment process for teachers is courting another controversy. Candidates with high academic scores in research are crying foul over selection of candidates who score lower than them.
 
 Gyan Singh Shekhawat, the most academically sound candidate in all globally recognized indicators—H factor, API score, citation, impact factor and i-10-Index was rejected for the post of associate professor of Botany.
 
 
  
  
 
 Singh’s H-index is 20, i-10 index - 21, citation score - 1000, API score - 2000, impact factor – 98. “Brilliant! His scores are much higher than most of the faculties in science departments in the Rajasthan University. His H-index score is four times higher than Prof AK Nagawat, one of the panelists, which indicates unfairness in the recruitment process,” said a retired professor of  .
 
 Singh’s achievements don’t stop here. He is also a recipient of department of science and technology’s BOYSCAST fellowship meant for young scientists and is supervising two major projects, an Indo-European project and an Indo-Russian project.
 
 “Can you imagine the future of this University? I worry about the future of students who will study under teachers with no academic quality. I demand a probe into the reasons as to why I was rejected and on what basis others were selected,” said Singh, who is also a post-doctoral scholar at TECO European grant.
 
 Similar is the story of  , who was also rejected by the interview panel for the post of assistant professor of Botany. Jewaria, a Rajasthan University alumnus accused that panelists didn’t look at his documents including his publications in Oxford journal and PhD from Osaka University, Japan. When, he inquired why no documents were verified or seen, he was told by one of the members, “It will depend on us and we can select a person according to our requirement.” His scores in all academic indicators is again higher than the selected candidates. 
 
 The selected candidates were  , whose H-index is- 6, i-10 index - 2 and 0 impact factor and Yogesh Joshi whose academic qualification is also much lower than both Shekhawat and Jewaria. TOI repeatedly called and texted vice chancellor and Nagawat for their response but got no response till the report was filed. 
 
 
