Nimisha.Dwivedi1@timesgroup.com

 Kalyani M sacrificed the comforts of her home in Andhra Pradesh to join the SOS   in Varanasi, bidding a teary-eyed farewell to parents and siblings.
 
 Decades later, the 45-year-old has found her own family and it’s only growing. House Number-15 of   (Societas Socialis) Village in Varanasi echoes with cries of ‘Mummy’ — Kalyani is a mother figure for the inmates.
 
 The SOS village was an initiative of Austrian philanthropist Herman Gmeiner and was set up to provide a family-like environment to children abandoned by parents or guardians. There are over 500 SOS villages in 132 countries and the only one in Uttar Pradesh is located at Chaubeypur, Varanasi.
 
 Kalyani was first recruited by SOS village in Hyderabad in 2005 and was shifted to Varanasi in 2007. She’s currently staying with 10 children in one of the houses. Between tending to children, she hardly has time for herself, but she doesn’t complain. When these kids fight, it is Kalyani who brokers peace.
 
 “Set up in 1984, the village is home to over 150 children in the age-group of 1-25. However, boys who are 10 years or older are shifted to three youth hostels: one in Sarnath and two in Varanasi,” says SOS Village (Varanasi) director Manoj Kumar Mishra.
 
 These villages have different ‘homes’ where caretakers, referred to as ‘mothers’, take care of children. They are assisted by ‘aunts’. The village currently has six mothers. The children go to SOS Hermann Gmeiner schools in the villages. After they return at noon, the mothers help them finish homework, and prepare meals.
 
 For 15-year-old Puja, one of her earliest memories is about getting lost at a shelter home with her brother and sister. Her mother passed away when she was just two. A few years later, when her father remarried, he suddenly left the three siblings to fend for themselves at a market in Aligarh. The Class XI student was just five when she came to SOS village in Varanasi.
 
 Since then there has been no looking back. As years passed, she grew closer to Kalyani aka Mother of House No. 15.
 
 Puja says she has never seen Kalyani get angry. “In fact, we get angry more often.”
 
 Kalyani says they are one big family. “They are children and need care. Generally, they are well-behaved, but sometimes I have to scold them for them to finish their homework.”
 
 
