GURUGRAM: For 40 flat buyers of the   M2K residential project, Oyster  , most of them NRIs, a surprise awaited them when they visited the project in Sector 102 for the first time, after the builder invited them to take possession of their flats in February 2018. They found a 400kV high-tension (HT) tower and live HT line passing through middle of their residential project.

 The project, spread over 19 acre, was launched in October 2012, and has 756 units of 3-, 4- and 5-BHK apartments, which cost in the range of Rs 1 crore to Rs 4 crore each. Once being intimated, a group of 40 buyers visited the project on February 28. Most of them NRIs and executives in big corporate houses, they had never visited the site till that time. 
 
 The buyers alleged the developer hadn’t revealed about the HT line at the time of selling the project.  , former vice-president of a telecom company, said he bought into the project at its pre-launch stage, without realising that he would be looking at a 400kV line through his windows. “The developer never revealed that a 400kV line was passing through the project, till I’d paid 100% of the money. That too, I only realised at the time of taking possession,” he added.
 
 Sunil Kumar, who works in Oman, said, “When I booked the flat in Oyster Grande, little did I know I was paying my hard-earned money for this.” Kumar only got to know there is a 400kV line passing through the property during an earlier visit. “Not disclosing such critical detail amounts to fraud. On top of that, I had to face threats from the developer for asking why they hadn’t shared such information,” he added. 
 
 When the buyers sought a reply from the developer, the company said they have already submitted a request to   to shift the HT line out of the residential complex. TOI has a copy of a letter, dated May 3, in which Adani Realty has written to Delhi Transco, requesting the HT lines to be shifted out of residential complex.
 
 The spokesperson for  , in a reply to the media, stated, “We’re fully seized of the matter concerning the HT line that passes through our project. As a responsible developer, we’re equally concerned about the safety and well-being of our valuable residents and thus, have already approached Delhi Transco for shifting the 400kV line. 
 
 In the meantime, we have also taken adequate security and safety measures, wherein, as per approved zoning plan, a corridor of 52m (26m from centre of line on both sides) has been left under the line, and has been landscaped. This corridor has been specifically created to ensure safe horizontal distance from apartments. 
 
 The HT line, which was also part of the Master Plan, has been in existence at this site much before our residential project was conceived and executed. The project has been built in conformity with rules and regulations, and the occupation certificate for the same has been granted by the director general of DTCP, Chandigarh. So far, we’ve offered over 400 apartments for possession. We wish to reiterate that we have abided by all relevant aspects of the buyers’ agreement and have constructed the project as per approved plans that were duly shared with customers. The project has been completed within the stipulated time frame.”
 
 However, not all buyers are convinced. “Our hard-earned money is going down the drain, with no one ready to hear our plight. Adani M2K management have cheated buyers by misrepresenting facts.. It’s time for the government and authorities to act on such unscrupulous builders,” said Amit Relan, another buyer.
 
 Yet another buyer said the builder has added many new charges under miscellaneous expenses in their final demand, burdening customers financially with threats of penalty, while the project itself is not liveable.
 
 
