MUMBAI: About 3,600 patients with   died in Mumbai in the last three years, said state health minister   in the legislative assembly on Wednesday. In a heated discussion on the disease, the minister said that over 20,000 patients succumbed to TB in the same period across the state.

 
  
 A closer look at Mumbai's data revealed a positive trend: Cases and deaths registered with the BMC have decreased between 2015 and 2017. While 1,459 Mumbaikars died in 2015, the number was 963 in 2017, said the minister. It may be recalled that the NGO Praja had released a report in 2017 saying that 18 people die of TB in Mumbai every day; the BMC at the time said the Praja report was based on wrong calculations.
 
 On Wednesday, senior civic officials said the death rate in Mumbai has been less than 5% of the total cases—the  's acceptable norm. TB is a highly contagious disease that spreads through air. “The cure rate in Mumbai is 80%, which is definitely praiseworthy,” said the civic official.
 
 In the assembly, the TB discussion began with BJP MLA Parag Alvani pointing out that hospitals didn’t have specialized TB doctors. Not only the opposition, but also ruling legislators slammed the government over the lack of TB doctors, labs and staff in government-run hospitals.
 
 Replying to the calling attention motion, minister Sawant assured that the state government would try to develop an advanced TB research center at  . He also said that besides the three existing TB labs, two more would be set up in Mumbai in six months.
 
 Senior BJP leader Eknath Khadse said there was a “building in Buldhana district for a TB hospital constructed during the British era”, but it had no doctors or medical infrastructure. He said the government claimed to have introduced many schemes for patients, yet there was no scope for completely free treatment. “The government announces that it spends money. If so, where is it going?” asked Khadse. He also criticized the government for the “pathetic condition of the TB eradication drive”.
 
 Congress MLA   demanded that two TB hospitals should be constructed in suburban Mumbai. Congress MLA Dr Rahul Ahir said, “TB in our country is an increasing phenomenon while in other countries the number of TB cases has reduced in the last three or four years. This is due to a lack of research on TB in the country... Urbanization is one of the reasons of TB’s spread.” Suggesting that the new system of TB diagnosis should be provided in rural areas, Ahir said TB treatment was non-affordable in private hospitals.
 
 
