Chandigarh: Residents of southern sectors are getting no relief from the   menace, which has caused many fatal accidents and damaged many parks.

 All roads from Sectors 48 to 51 are seized by stray cattle after 7pm, as dairy farmers abandon their these cows and buffaloes to graze. Sector 48 resident Deepti Shastri said: “Two days ago, a motorcyclist and a car had a near collision with stray cattle on a road section that has no streetlight. That herd was was without its shepherd. This is not an isolated incident but a matter of routine in the area. Commuters have to be alert while driving in the sector.”
 
 Residents said earlier the cattle came out at night but inaction by the municipal corporation had emboldened the owners to now let the cows out during daytime. Jyoti Bhardwaj of Sector 47 said: “About a year ago, the herds would be seen only at night but now you can catch them as early as 7pm, and they are not back in their pounds before 7am. More than 50 cattle heads from the neighboring villages raom in the sector every day. We are afraid that these might attack our children. Cattle owners leave them on road deliberately.”
 
 Another resident said: “Since most cattle are black, these are difficult to spot on dim-lit streets, which can prove fatal for the commuters. We fear that the cows might gore our children kids on their way to the school or the market, because stray cattle are running amok in the area.”
 
 Sector-47 resident A K Mathur said: “If the Mohali administration can take action against dairy owners who let out their cattle, why can’t the Chandigarh Administration do the same? Are the civic authorities waiting for some serious accident to happen because of stray cattle?”
 
 Mayor Davesh Moudgil said he was aware of the issue and he had got a park locked so that stray cattle could not damage it at night. “But all in vain,” he said. “The cattle menace is because of dairies along the border with Mohali. The owners let these herds into Chandigarh to graze.”
 
 
