NOIDA: Two of the five outsiders who had illegally occupied government flats have finally vacated them, while a third occupant has informed the authorities that he too would follow suit. 

 This development comes a month after TOI reported that as many as seven outsiders, including a   official, an income tax commissioner posted in Faridabad, ADM (city) Agra, a circle officer in Mathura, GM (projects) YEIDA and police officers were occupying flats in a residential complex meant for doctors and employees of the district and child hospitals in Sector 30. 
 
  Sources confirmed that ADM (city) Agra KP Singh, who had occupied flat no. 404 in tower 4, and SP (city) Kanpur Gaurav Grover, who had occupied flat no.409 in tower 4, have vacated the flats and additional income tax commissioner (Faridabad) Sanjeev Yadav would be vacating his flat soon. 
 
 When TOI visited the flats on Saturday they were found locked. 
 
 Dr  , director,   and Post-Graduate Teaching Institute ( ) confirmed that Singh and Grover had vacated their flats around 15 days ago, Yadav had promised to vacate the flat occupied by him within a few days.
 
 However, circle officer, Sadar (Mathura), Rakesh Kumar and assistant project engineer in Noida Authority Om Prakash Rai who were issued notices by the house allotment committee on April 16 are yet to vacate the flats.
 
 "They will be issued notices for a second time within a few days," Bhatt said.
 
 Officials confirmed that flat no. 404 in tower 4 has now been allotted to Dr Sumit Rai, associate professor, SSPHPGTI. He was handed over the allotment letter on on April 27.
 
 Officials of the house allotment committee confirmed that at least 25 doctors, including assistant professors and associate professors, were still in waiting to get a flat in the complex. While five officers and officials were given notices to vacate the flats,  , a gynaecologist posted at the  , and GM (projects) YEIDA Devendra Baliyan had been spared.
 
 When asked, Dr Shekhar Yadav, medical superintendent, SSPHPGTI said as Ruchi is a doctor, she was not asked to vacate her flat and Baliyan had been granted a temporary permission to stay at the flat.
 
  Meanwhile, Om Prakash Rai, who was also asked to vacate his flat, told TOI that he was a Noida Authority employee and the Authority had allowed him occupancy. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts, circle officer (Mathura) Rakesh Kumar could not be reached. Many of these officers, who were being referred as outsiders, were once posted in Noida and the authority had allotted them the flats in the complex. However, the complex was transferred to the SSPHPGTI management in 2017. There are six residential towers in the complex for doctors and staff of the district hospital, and it was constructed in 2015.
 
 
