LUDHIANA : A gathering of old students descended on the SCD Government College, Ludhiana, for an alumni meet on March 8, and also to celebrate the birth anniversary of   Ludhianvi. Secretary Prof   welcomed accomplished teachers, bureaucrats, and executives who came from far and wide to participate in the alumni meet and relive their student life.

 Throwing light on the outstanding poetic talent of Sahir — who gave recognition to this college — Prof Kamal Kishore shared not just insights of Sahir’s college life, but also his personal life, and how the values inculcated by his college left an invaluable mark on his psyche. Principal Dr Dharm Singh Sandhu — who is also president of the   — shared with the old students the historical perspective of SCD Government College, which was established in 1920. He also shared the secret of how Britishers — in order to acknowledge the contribution of Punjab during World War II — decided to bless this region with a college.
 
 Initially started in Ambala, the college came into the kitty of Ludhiana because of its location, specifically due to the abundance of water on the banks of Satluj river. Taking out a page from history, the principal said the college produced a scientist par excellence by the name of  , and how his most lovable and celebrated student, the former President of India Dr APJ  , owed his success to him. “The college is blessed with a plethora of men and women of academic, scientific, and sporting excellence. The governor of Jammu & Kashmir, NN Vohra; former chief election commissioner of India, Dr MS Gill; besides three Punjab MLAs at present — S Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Bharat Bhusan Ashu, and Sanjay Talwar — all belong to this college. You name a discipline and this college is its nursery,” remarked the principal.
 
 The day was infused with nostalgic moments that included a gala show of dance, songs, and band orchestra, with the young and old making merry together. The principal wished good luck to everyone for their pursuits in life, and promised to meet again in the near future.
 
 
