CHENNAI: In an effort to get back rent and maintenance charges from occupants of slum tenements across the city, unpaid for years, the   (TNSCB) has begun serving notices. 

 The arrears of the charges, ranging from 250 to 1,000, could run into crores of rupees, many in places like Kannagi Nagar and Ezhil Nagar, housing nearly two lakh people, have not paid up for periods from six months to 10 years, TNSCB officials told TOI. 
 
 Since last week, TNSCB offices within slums have been crammed with residents, most of them pleading their inability to pay the whole sum. "The dues run into thousands of rupees and have been pending for months and years but they say they can only pay 500 or 1,000," said an official. 
 
 TNSCB officials say 'support' from political goons and some residents prevailing upon others to remain defiant have aggravated the situation.
 
 "They own the best of phones, TVs and vehicles. None of them is below the poverty line that they can't manage sums like 600 a month for the facilities we provide. Being a government body, the board is putting up with such shenanigans," said an official seeking anonymity. 
 
 The residents, however, cite the lack of a regular income for many not being able to pay. "Some pay, some don't. The fishing profession is such that you earn one day and on the others, you don't. So, whoever doesn't earn can't pay," said Padmini, a fisherwoman from Ayodha Kuppam off Kamarajar Salai.
 
 Others felt the facilities were not 'sufficient.' "The walls are so weak you can't drill a nail. The toilet was overlooking the kitchen when we moved in and we spent nearly 2 lakh to fix the one-room house. The one water tank per tenement is not enough so 3/4 families chipped in and each building has their own water pump," said another resident. 
 
 According to groups working with resettlement and rehabilitation drives across the state, the lack of a uniform resettlement and rehabilitation policy is the major problem.
 
 "There is a gross inadequacy of services. The walls are crumbling, pipes, leaking. Schools and anganwadi centres are inadequate for each settlement making at least one member of the family stop going for a job. On top of it, within a settlement, there is a disparity in maintenance charges," said Vanessa Peter, of Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities. 
 
 
