THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , a small fishing hamlet in Thiruvananthapuram, is making waves in the Indian   scene. In the past nine years the village has produced 24 Santosh Trophy footballers, giving it the nickname Santosh Trophy village.

  Freddy S, who represented Tamil Nadu in the Santosh Trophy in 2009, was the first from Pozhiyoor to play in the National Football Championship and ever since footballers from this tiny village that shares border with Tamil Nadu, have been queuing up to play Santosh Trophy. This year, when the state won the national championship after a gap of 14 years, Pozhiyoor was represented by two players - Lijo Siluvacrez, who was the vice-captain of the team and Seesan Selvan.
 
 Besides these two, five other players played for different teams in this year’s Santosh Trophy. While Subhash and Rajesh S played for Karnataka, Ajeesh and Alvin were part of Tamil Nadu state team. Benno played for the Services team. Apart from these seven, two I-League players, Shinu S (Gokulam FC) and Britto PM (Churchill Brothers) also hail from this village.
 
 Football became popular in this region in the early 60’s when two clubs, SMRC (under the guidance of Trivandrum Latin Archdiocese) and Udaya, came into existence. However, there was no proper playground, and playing on sand led to injuries. Frequent injuries meant that parents were wary of sending their kids to play football. “We used to hide our boots from our parents back then,” said Cleofas Alex, current Viva Chennai coach and former assistant coach of Tamil Nadu Santosh Trophy team.
 
 In 2002, SMRC managed to build a ground in Pozhiyoor with the help of local people and Sports Council. “The ground came as a huge blessing. Though it was a mud ground, the youngsters began to show great improvement. And when players from here started to get jobs through football, people urged their kids to take up the game,” said Cleofas. Rajesh S, an employee with the Western Railway and the top scorer in this year’s Santosh Trophy with 23 goals, said his parents allowed him to play football because they wanted him to get a good job.
 
 “Pozhiyoor is a small village but here we speak and breath football. This village sowed the seeds of the footballer in me,” said Lijo Siluvacrez.
 
 Now Pozhiyoor has two grounds, each with a gallery and a clubhouse facility owned by SMRC and Udaya respectively. It won’t be long before one from this fishing village makes it to the Indian team.
 
 
