BATHINDA: Barring stray incidents, the bandh by the Dalit groups remained peaceful at many places across Malwa region of Punjab. The protesters had a small clash with police at   over the members from Dalit community trying to force some shopkeepers to close the shutters. In another incident, members from the Dalit community and from general category clashed at Mehna chowk area of Bathinda resulting in injuries to two persons.

 Some incidents of violence were reported from   as well. The protesters also injured a head constable in Bareta town of Mansa, and another case was registered at Bareta for causing injuries to the cop Jarnail Singh.
 
 At Barnala, a clash was averted between the Dalit protesters and members from the general category. Dalit protesters disrupted rail traffic at   and stopped the Jammu Tawi Express train. They broke the window pane of a car at Feozepur Cantonment and damaged a shop in the area.
 
 They also disrupted traffic on the   road and at Mudki and Makhu in Ferozepur district. Government Railway Police (GRP) registered case for disrupting rail traffic at Ferozepur. Ferozepur division of Northern Railway short terminated some trains.
 
 Police registered two cases for rioting with weapons, unlawful assembly, causing hurt with dangerous weapons against protesters at Bathinda and arrested one Vikas Kumar. The protesters alleged police resorted to cane-charge at Mehna chowk, which was denied by the police.
 
 Hundreds of protesters, many of them holding sticks, baseball bats and even swords, assembled near the bus stand and marched through various areas of Bathinda. The protesters, holding flags with B R Ambedkar’s image and speaker system fitted on a vehicle, clashed with police near the district administrative complex (DAC) when some them tried to force bandh.
 
 In the melee, protesters damaged a vehicle parked outside a motorcycle showroom. Police took a man in custody which sparked further protest. The protesters also clashed with some shopkeepers near Mehna Chowk. They damaged the glass door of a shop and attacked one Kimpal and his mother   standing nearby.
 
 When the protesters dispersed, the shopkeepers beat up two of them who had remained behind at Mehna Chowk. Learning about it, the protesters, including the activists of Balmiki Sabha and  , returned to spot and held a loud protest.
 
 They wanted the shopkeepers, who beat two protesters, should be produced before them. Bathinda zone IG M S   reached the spot and police succeeded in prevailing upon the protesters to leave.
 
 IG Chhina said some stray incidents were reported at Ferozepur, Mansa and Bathinda but the bandh passed off peacefully. “The protesters had disrupted rail and road traffic at some places and action is being taken,” he said.
 
 
