JAIPUR: Shopkeepers owning shops in centres developed by development authorities, municipal corporations,   (RHB) for long tenure can now purchase the ‘roof rights’.

 The urban development and housing (UDH) department has decided to extend the lease duration for such tenants from 30 to 99 years and shall have a right to purchase terrace of the property.
 
 Sources in the department said, “The UDH minister has given approval to the proposal and orders will be released   for the same.” 
 
 With this, shopkeepers will be allowed construction on the  . In present situation, after the shops are sold, the ‘roof rights’ remains with civic body and any kind of construction is illegal. The department has approved the proposal of selling the ‘roof rights’ to the shopkeepers across the state. 
 
 The new decision has delighted the shopkeepers who were not able to use the roof since long. “As business grows, more space is required for extension. Since long, we were requesting the government to sell the roofs as the area was wasted. Now, shopkeepers can utilise this area for better purpose,” said Ravi Surana who owns a shop in Malviya Nagar. 
 
 The new move will not only help local bodies to earn revenue but also end to the practice of illegal construction. It was informed, in the state capital, many shopping centres were developed in Malaviya Nagar, Lalkhoti, Vidhyadhar Nagar, Ambabari areas by the civic agencies.
 
 “The construction over these shops was not allowed as rights remain with local bodies. Due to this, shopkeepers were illegally constructing houses or shops on the roof.” 
 
 The decision has been taken to sell the area on the district lease committee (DLC) rates or reserve price to the shopkeepers.
 
 “Shopkeepers, who are purchasing new shops in these markets, can buy roof rights at the time of allotment. Similarly, old shopkeepers can also apply at civic agencies to purchase roof,” added source.
 
 Sources further said, many shopkeepers have applied in development authorities, municipal corporations, RHB to purchase the roof. However, these matters were still pending as there was no provision to sell the roof rights.
 
 
