LUCKNOW: Maulana Salman Nadwi — the sacked executive committee member of the   (AIMPLB) — landed in a controversy Wednesday, when general secretary of the Ayodhya Sadbhavna Samanvay Mahasamiti, Amarnath Mishra, accused him of asking for bribe to further out-of-court settlements in the dispute. Nadwi has denied all accusations being levied on him.

 Mishra alleged: “Maulana Nadwi, on February 5, had asked me for Rs 5,000 crore, 200 acres of land and a   seat in exchange for ‘convincing’ Muslims and AIMPLB on an out-of-court settlement.” Mishra is also the national general secretary of the Ram Janmbhoomi Mandir Nirman Nyas, constituted recently. He, however, presented no proof for his claims, but claimed to have sworn by the Gita of saying the truth.
 
 When asked why he had not raised an alarm on the same day and why such a traction has come up when both Nadwi and Mishra are seeking out-of-court setllement, Mishra said, “He is not a member of AIMPLB now and so nothing can come out of his peaceful talks henceforth. He wants to do Islamisation of Ayodhya and built a Mecca there.”
 
 Mishra also said that he had informed Vinay Katiyar, Champatrai and even Sri Sri Ravishanker.
 
 He claimed, “They were all shocked and said there can be no deal in Ayodhya dispute only amity.” In the past, Mishra arranged Sri Sri’s visit to Ayodhya for the peace process. Now, Nadwi, too, is talking to the Art of living founder for an amicable settlement. Nadwi, however, denied knowing Mishra and also all allegations levelled against him. Taking an aggressive stand, he said, “I don’t even know who Amarnath Mishra is and where he comes from. Whatever lies he is fabricating against me will all be dealt with by God himself. He will go through hell for this both in this life and after this life.”
 
 Mishra had on February 8 sent a letter addressed to   (when he was a member of the AIMPLB) just a day before the annual general council meeting of the board was to be held in Hyderabad. The letter claimed that both Mishra and Nadwi had met on February 5 at Darul Uloom Nadwatul Ulama in Lucknow where the latter is dean of faculty.
 
 Mishra had claimed that on peaceful talks for settlement in the issue, Nadwi had sought written proposals from Mishra, to which he had sent the letter. On the same day, on February 8, Nadwi had gone to Bengaluru and held talks for out-of court settlement with Sri Sri.
 
 According to Mishra, three proposals to the dispute were proposed to Nadwi.
 
 The first proposal was — Muslims being given 10 acres of undisputed land in Ayodhya currently owned by Nirmohi Akhara instead of the disputed site. The second was, setting up of an international university in the name of Bahadur Shah Zafar on the Gorakhpur highway under Ayodhya constituency and to built a mosque inside its premises (this was said to be a proposal from self claimed descendant of Mughal ruler Bahadur Shah Zafar). And the third was, to build a mosque close to the disputed site, on the spot where a wood cutting unit is currently present (this was claimed to have endorsement from around 10,000 locals in Ayodhya in the form of their signatures).
 
 Now, he claims that it was during the February 5 meeting that Nadwi asked for the  .
 
 
 
