It was late in the night in Gold Coast, Australia. But the phone kept ringing for 23-year-old  . 

 The youngster from Nilamel, Kollam, had just completed the 400 m men’s final race at the Commonwealth Games. By a margin of 0.20 second, he lost a medal for the country, but Anas was by no means returning empty handed from the track. The Navy man had broken his own national record, for the third time, and also became the first Indian after the legendary   (1958) to qualify for the 400 metre finals at the event.
 
 As he picked up the phone to speak, Anas sounded tired and sleepy. However, unlike his voice, his words were quite upbeat. “I never expected to be in the finals of this event in the first place, and that in itself is a big reason for me to smile and stay positive. The 400 m finals gave me the best memories for a lifetime too. The crowd here offered tremendous support and that was incredible,” says the softspoken youngster.
 
 For someone who started off with serious athletics only in his higher secondary school days, and who faced discouragement in various forms throughout his sports career, this can definitely be termed an achievement par excellence. While the rest of his competitors, including Indians, participated in the meet after taking part in a minimum of three international events, Anas wasn’t given such an opportunity. His coach   says, “There were many adverse circumstances that marred his performances. The association initially didn’t have a plan to give him an individual run as he was not in the camp, but had trained with me instead. The inclusion was an afterthought. I won’t say that he was in the best state of mind due to many such reasons. It’s not easy for an athlete to bring out his full potential in such a situation.”
 
 The weather also played a bit of a spoilsport. “It was raining and the climate was quite different at the venue on the day of the event. It made my body stiff. I don't know how the other runners took it, but my body was quite affected by the change,” Anas opens up. He confesses that he wasn’t as relaxed as he was during his semi-final run. Coach P B Jayakumar concurs. “In the first 200 metres of the finals, he was a little slow and there was a little bit of over-striding too. Analysing his performance in the semis, in which he clocked 45.4 seconds, I expected that he would easily win a bronze, with a timing of 45.01. However, things can change a lot depending on external factors, the people you run with etc. I believe he did his best.” Anas finished the race in 45.03 seconds.
 That said, Anas goes back to that phase in his life a few years ago, when he had to stop sports altogether, after his father passed away. "I was in Class 10 at that time. At that stage in my life, I did not imagine that I will get such a platform or even be a sportsman.” It’s with his family’s support that he eventually got back to the sports turf. “When I think of those days, I feel I have enough to be thankful for now." 
 
 Now, his focus is completely on the relay that is coming up, on April 13, and the Asian Games coming up in August. "It's time I started preparations for the next event. I am sure that if the team presents the season's best performance, we can gift the country a medal in CWG."
 
