NEW DELHI: The New Delhi Municipal Council has again shifted the deadline for redeveloping the iconic   — this time to March 2019. The project was conceived in 2006 and the work was to be over by March 2017. The deadline was then shifted to September, and even that was missed.

 The heritage building was declared dangerous in 2007 and   asked the shopkeepers to vacate the premises. But 28 shopkeepers went to the high court against the eviction and the case dragged on till 2013 when the Supreme Court ruled in favour of NDMC.
 
 Senior NDMC officials said the project was divided into two parts — structural fitting and development of a museum — and that they would soon float a tender. They attributed the delays to lack of approvals. 
 
 “There was a delay in preparing the plans and obtaining requisite approvals. Legal issues, too, put a spanner in the works. But now all issues have been resolved and we will float the tender soon. A consultant has been appointed and the project will completed in two phases,” an official said. In the first phase, structural fitting would be done from both outside and inside and, in the second, a museum would be developed inside the heritage building, he added. 
 
 The redevelopment will cost NDMC Rs 14 crore and structural maintenance Rs 6 crore whereas the museum will come up for another Rs 8 crore.
 
 The condition of the once-thriving market has deteriorated over the years. The 95-year-old structure has turned into a virtual dumpyard, with paint flaking off the walls and trees having come up at the centre of the main building. “The octagonal structure will have a museum, along with an art gallery, to showcase Delhi’s history. We will put up artefacts and old photographs depicting the development of the capital. There will also be a cafeteria,” the official said.
 
 Narayan Shamnani, president of Gole Market’s Merchant Association, said that while NDMC had been planning to revive the old charm of the market for over a decade, nothing had actually happened. “NDMC only makes announcements about the project, but has done very little. Several shopkeepers were thrown out and lost their means of livelihood. Mounds of garbage and malba are dumped in the heritage building and NDMC has done nothing to keep the area clean,” Shamnani said. “Not even once did NDMC call us to discuss its plans.”
 
 Traders claimed that building a museum at that location would only add to the traffic woes.
 
 
