KANYAKUMARI: Fishermen from coastal villages in   region in Kanyakumari district who lost their mechanised boats in   have sought financial help from the government to buy new boats. A delegation of about 20 fishermen made its representation to the minister for fisheries D   and to the director of   at Chennai on Wednesday.

 The fishermen said that more than 20 mechanised boats worth more than Rs 60 lakh each sank in the cyclone on November 30, last year. 
 
 They said that this is the third time they are travelling to Chennai seeking relief for their boats that had sunk. However, they lauded the efforts taken by the state government in disbursing livelihood relief and assistance to the thousands of families that were directly and indirectly affected by the cyclone.
 
 One of the members of the delegation told TOI that the last time they met the minister they estimated the cost of each boat at Rs 60 lakh. The minister had also reportedly extended support to get assistance from the government to the tune of Rs 30 lakh per boat while the remaining cost should be borne by the fishermen.
 
 “But this is only the cost of the boat. We have to shell out another Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh per boat for fishing accessories and navigator. We could not avail bank loans for the said amount as we don’t have money to invest. So, we have gone to Chennai again to make a representation seeking more financial relief and help us avail bank loans for the remaining,” said P Dickson of Vallavilai.
 
 Another fisherman said that some of them bought boats about a decade ago for Rs 20 lakh to Rs 25 lakh. But, it would not be enough to get a boat now, as the prices have gone up more than three times. The delegation also said that it has not listed out those boats which suffered minor and moderate damages to the tune of Rs 2 lakh to Rs 10 lakh but managed to survive Ockhi.
 
 “These damaged boats are back to the sea after repair and maintenance works. So we have not pressed for relief for those boats now,” he added. Fishermen said that the minister and fisheries department director assuring that efforts will be taken to enhance the value of the boat and to increase the government’s share as relief and help them get loans from bank.
 
 
