GURUGRAM: US-based   giant   launched its first centre in the national capital region on Wednesday. The 105,000sq-ft centre is spread over five floors on MG Road in Gurugram and features a collaborative space, private offices and conference rooms. 

 Like other offices of WeWork across the world, the centre is locally inspired. “The art in the space has taken inspiration from Gurugram’s history and is connected to the roots of the city and nearby areas,” said Ryan Bennett, general manager, WeWork India. He added that the Maruti car artwork on the ground floor and the first-floor corridors was inspired by Maruti Suzuki India Limited, which established a manufacturing plant in Gurugram in the 1970s and turned out to be one of the reasons of the city’s economic growth back then.
 
 The launch of this centre will make the co-working space in Gurugram more competitive. Indian co-working player 91Springboard will add another facility in Cyber Hub later this week. GoWork launched India’s biggest co-working space last summer in Gurugram and plans on more centres in the city soon.
 
 According to a study by Jones Lang Lasalle, the number of co-working spaces is expected to go up to 800 in Gurugram with cost per seat ranging between Rs 7,500-15,000 per month.
 
 This is the company’s sixth location in India after three centres in Bengaluru and two centres in Mumbai. It plans to launch six more centres in the country by the year-end, including one in Mumbai and one in Bangalore. Clientele at the centre is a mix of startups, SMEs and Fortune 500 companies.
 
 Bennett said that while the whole co-working trend started with start-ups and smaller companies, bigger organisations are warming up to the ideas of co-working spaces as they strive to be agile.
 
 “With an ever increasing millennial population at workplace, companies are constantly striving to create an inclusive work culture and work space to keep their workforce engaged and we help them do that through our community events and experiences,” said  , general manager, WeWork India.
 
 
