

 
 
 
 
 
 The opinion polls are not as reliable as the exit polls. While the accuracy of exit polls is 95%, that of opinion polls is just about 20-30%. Moreover, two of the opinion polls were done in early April and things have changed drastically since then, especially after the parties finalized their candidates. I am still confident of reaching the 113-mark as we were first to announce candidates from 126 constituencies.
 
 
 
 BJP national president Amit Shah’s strategy has completely fallen flat in Karnataka and PM   is no more showing any keen interest in campaigning in the state, suggesting that his magic too is on the wane, especially after his speeches on corruption failed to create any narrative. The   has already reached the fourth stage of cancer and seems to be stronger only on paper and opinion polls. Only CM Siddaramaiah is putting up a lone fight. With no real issues on their side, both national parties are playing caste politics to the hilt; they finally tripped in naming candidates. These things have turned into an advantage for the JD(S).
 
 
 
 The decision not to field Vijayendra from Varuna will surely hurt the BJP’s prospects across the state. There is widespread anger in the Lingayat community against the BJP over denial of ticket to Vijayendra at the last minute only because he is Yeddyurappa’s son.
 
 
 
 Initially, I was only hoping to get about 10-12 seats in North Karnataka, but now I am confident the party will bag more with the entry of prominent leaders like Revunaik Belamagi, S K Bellubbi and Prakash Khandre, among others. In Bengaluru too, I was expecting only two seats, but now I am sure of getting 8-10 seats.
 
 
 
 Mark my words, we will win both seats. In Chamundeshwari, G T Devegowda is certain to win and that was the reason Siddaramaiah chose to contest from Badami. Though the media is now projecting the Badami fight as one between Siddaramaiah and Sreeramulu, both are certain to lose as they are outsiders. Our candidate Hanmanth Mavinmarad, a local, has an advantage as he has been actively working in the constituency for the past two years and has a personal rapport with voters.
 
