BENGALURU: Kerala wicketkeeper-batsman   has always been a player to rely on in the  . He enhanced that reputation on Sunday when, for the third match in succession, he pulled   out of trouble. The 23-year-old bludgeoned an unbeaten 45-ball-92 that left the   reeling at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium.

 
 Samson, skipper Ajinkya Rahane and legspinner Shreyas Gopal orchestrated a 19-run win for the away team on a pitch that yielded in excess of 400 runs. Chasing an imposing 218 for a win RCB ended their innings at 198/6.
 
 The hosts, after a disastrous display by their pacers, were off to a shaky start. Offspinner K Gowtham sent back Brendon McCullum off the fourth ball when the veteran New Zealander’s attempted pull fell short and into the hands of Ben Stokes at deep mid-wicket.
 
 The daunting numbers notwithstanding, the home team was in the chase during the 30-ball-57 (7x4, 2x6) effort by skipper Virat Kohli and his 77-run (44b) second-wicket partnership with Quinton de Kock (26, 19b, 4x4).
 
 D’Arcy Short took out De Kock in the eighth over and the RCB cookie began to crumble. Shreyas (2/22), playing in his backyard, silenced the boisterous Bengaluru crowd with twin blows. Kohli pulled the 25-year-old to deep mid-wicket and was caught by Short and two overs later,   too fell to a pull shot, this time holing out to Jaydev Unadkat at deep square-leg. Late heroics by Mandeep Singh (42, 25b, 6x4, 1x6) and Washington Sundar (35, 19, 1x4, 3x6) were too little too late.
 
 Samson on song
 Samson, a dangerous batsman, has mixed responsibility with caution this season, making him even more of a threat. On a surface that offered plenty for the batsmen, Samson milked the spinners and hammered the pacers.
 
 He began the innings with a six off Kulwant Khejroliya, artistically using his wrist to hoist the delivery over deep square-leg. There weren’t any more fancy displays thereafter, but he made good use of his feet and his wrists. There was brutal power too which saw him clobber 10 sixes and two fours.
 
 Put in to bat, Rahane set the tone with a quick-fire 20-ball 36 (6x4, 1x6). Chris Woakes (2-47) ended Rahane’s cameo with a slower delivery that went straight down the throat of Umesh Yadav at mid-on, but the Royals were hardly under pressure. Short (11, 17b, 1x4) again disappointed with the economical Chahal (2/22) putting an end to his struggle against both spin and pace.
 
 Samson built some crucial partnerships, especially the 73-run fourth-wicket stand with Jos Buttler (23), and an unconquered 11-ball 42 for the fifth-wicket with Rahul Tripathi. The duo tore apart the hosts pacers. Umesh Yadav, who enjoyed a dream match two nights ago, endured a nightmare evening, going for 27 runs in the last over.
 
 
