MUMBAI: Observing food and beverages were being sold at an "exorbitant'' price inside multiplexes, Bombay high court on Wednesday gave the state government six weeks to frame a policy to regulate rates. 

 Government pleader Purnima Kantharia informed the high court it would do so.
 
 A division bench of justices S M Kemkar and M S Karnik was hearing a   (PIL) filed by citizen   challenging an existing ban on carrying outside food into theatres and multiplexes across the state. His lawyer,  , pointed out there was no statutory bar on carrying personal food articles or water inside movie theatres. He said food and water sold inside were exorbitantly priced, a point justice Kemkar agreed with, saying, "This is what we experience too."
 
 Pratap was seeking a policy with proper guidelines.
 
 The multiplex association argued against the "undesirable'' suggestion that cinema-goers be permitted to carry outside food into theatres. Terming it "wholly unworkable and unviable", it said in an affidavit, "Safety and security of patrons as well as fundamental and legal rights available to a cinema theatre business" have been ignored by the suggestions.
 
 Sharan Jagtiani, counsel for the association, said the "mere pendency of the PIL was making police in Navi Mumbai think they could take action against multiplexes.'' He produced a letter from the police asking multiplex owners about the ban on outside food in theatres. Another lawyer for the association claimed there was an attack on a manager at PVR, Panvel.
 
 The HC observed it had not passed any order and asked the government pleader to look into it. 
 
 
 The bench observed, “In order to resolve the issue, the government pleader says the state is introducing a policy.” The HC has posted the matter for June 12.
 
 The association said cinemas earned a large chunk of revenue through sales of food/beverages and that would take a hit if cinema-goers were permitted to bring outside food/beverages. Cinemas pay a large amount of indirect taxes and this has to be taken into account when permitting outside food, as revenue from sale of food and beverages will naturally go down, it stated.
 
 This could also potentially lead to “alcoholic drinks, chemicals and other inflammable substances” being brought into theatres.
 
