MUMBAI: A day after a music video featuring a song sung by Amruta Fadnavis, wife of CM  , and featuring the CM himself went viral, the   posed 10 questions related to it to Fadnavis.

  
  
 The video, also featuring civic chief   and police commissioner Datta Padsalgikar, calls for the saving of Mumbai’s four rivers and has the CM too crooning – not in his own voice but with Sonu Nigam providing the playback.
 
 Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said this was for the first time the CM, his wife, finance minister   and Mehta and Padsalgikar were seen “dancing.”
 
 Sawant said Congress wanted to know if T-Series, which has made the video, was linked to the state government or the Fadnavis family. As there was no mention of the government or DGIPR (the state’s publicity department) in the video, the party also wanted to know if the government had entered into an agreement with the firm; if so, he said, it should provide details of the agreement.
 
 Congress asked how the firm was selected the process adopted for it, and if the CM, his wife, and officials accepted an honorarium. “Who paid it and funded the event?” Sawant asked. As part of the video has been shot at the CM’s official residence Varsha, Sawant asked who had granted permission for the shoot there.
 
 “If the video was private, how were state officials acting in it, and were they asked to perform? Who ordered Mehta and Padsalgikar to participate and was it part of their jurisdiction and within the framework of rules?” the Congress poser said. Some questions took a satirical tone. “Does the CM really believe that by such events, rivers in Mumbai can be cleaned, since all important officials from Mumbai have spent their precious time (on it)?” it asked, adding, “Will the state impart training in acting and dancing to officers to tackle disasters?”
 
 Sawant added, “Maharashtra has seen over 13,000 farmers’ suicides, and a wire mesh has been fixed at Mantralaya to prevent suicides. Will the CM prepare a similar video to halt farm suicides?”
 
 
