CHANDIGARH: Additional district and sessions judge Ashwani Kumar Mehta has directed a trial court to initiate criminal proceedings against three members of a family and two witnesses for forging documents to obtain a bank loan — a forgery case for which   RC Meena and sub-inspector Surinder Kumar had allegedly demanded a bribe but were arrested by the CBI in August 2015

 This family not only “forged the documents but also produced them in the court as affidavit”. The court order reads, “The trial court is directed to initiate criminal proceedings under Section 340 of Criminal Procedure Code against the plaintiffs as well as the false witnesses who had appended their signatures on documents by filing a criminal complaint against them, after obtaining copies of these documents in accordance with law.”
 
 The accused family members are Gurkirpal Singh Chawla, his wife Jagjit Kaur and his son Hamrit Singh Chawla, all residents of Mohali.
 
 The court order said, “If a forged document is produced in the court, every endeavour should be made that the culprit does not go scot-free and this fact cannot be taken so lightly.”
 
 The Chawlas were having a property dispute with the Duggal family since 2005. Chawla wanted to buy the house of Duggal in Sector 9 and arranged funds from a bank after taking a loan. The deal was finalised but later Duggal refused to sell the house owing to inheritance and legal issues. The Chawla family, however, forged the signatures of Deepa Duggal on a fake agreement for the sale on July 28, 2005, and the document was fabricated by Chawlas for the purpose of raising a housing loan of Rs 6.25 crore from Punjab National Bank.
 
 Meanwhile, Duggal got an FIR registered against Chawlas for forging documents with economic offences wing ( ). Later, Gurkirlan Singh Chawla, daughter of Chawla, filed a complaint with CBI that the two police officials were demanding bribe to settle the forgery case.
 
 
 
 
 A complaint was received by the CBI from Guneet Kaur alleging Deepa Duggal had got an FIR registered with the EOW on December 12, 2014, against her (Guneet’s) parents Gurkirpal Singh Chawla and Jagjit Kaur Chawla, and her brother Hamrit Singh Chawla. Aman Grover is the son-in-law of Deepa Duggal and Sanjay Dahuja is his friend.
 
 Grover contacted Guneet Kaur and informed her that Sanjay Dahuja was in contact with DSP (EOW) Ram Chander Meena and SI Surinder Kumar. Grover further informed that DSP Meena and Surinder demanded a bribe of Rs 70 lakh through Dahuja for not arresting her parents and brother and to reach a compromise in the case. The CBI stated that Rs 40 lakh was to be paid to the police officials and Rs 30 lakh to Grover. The CBI laid a trap and recovered Rs 40 lakh and a post-dated cheque of Rs 30 lakh from Aman Grover.
 
 Those arrested are DSP (EOW) RC Meena, SI Surinder Kumar, Sanjay Dahuja, owner of   in the Industrial Area, and Aman Grover, owner of  
 
