CHANDIGARH: In a move aimed at curbing age fraud by players participating in various national and state-level wrestling championships, the   (WFI) has made the   mandatory for all senior, junior, sub-junior and cadet tournaments. 

 This comes close on the heels of six junior wrestlers being found overage during the recently-concluded Junior   Championship held in Jaipur from February 22 to 25.
 
 According to the wrestling federation, the move will also prove to be a deterrent for dishonest players who fraudulently change their state domicile without obtaining a no-objection certificate (NOC) from their parental state.
 
 "Aadhaar has been made compulsory for all senior, junior and cadet categories in national and state-level wrestling championships to prevent fraudulent activities in the sport," WFI secretary   told TOI. 
 
 "This (move) will weed out dishonest wrestlers who forge documents and commit age fraud. It will also prevent players from manufacturing illegal documents to show illegitimate domicile. If anyone wants to play for another state other than his or her parental state, then that particular player has to obtain an NOC from the parent state," he added.
 
 Tomar also stated that the move would be beneficial for wrestlers who do not move forward in their careers since there are players who usurp their spot by showing illegal domicile. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Tomar said, “Now those wrestlers, whose spots are taken away due to others adopting malpractice, can compete at the national level.”
 
 
 Even after suffering losses, several wrestlers make fake certificates and come back to play at the junior level by showing a younger age. The WFI secretary stated that such players would now be caught.
 
 
 “Aadhaar will give us the complete data of any wrestler now and we will keep the records. We will know which championship a particular wrestler has competed in and what his or her age at that time was. The records will also show which venue and what tournament a player has competed in. All the information will be recorded on the Aadhaar and fraud will be easily caught,” said Tomar.
 
 
 Recently, the WFI banned six junior wrestlers for one year after finding out that they were overage. Out of the six, two were representing Chandigarh, one
 
 
 Haryana, two Delhi and one turned out for Uttar Pradesh. Four of them were also found guilty of fraudulently changing their state domicile without obtaining NOC from their parental state.
 
 
 A seventh wrestler (representing Delhi) was also banned for the same duration as he too represented a different state without obtaining an NOC from his parent state.
 
 
