BAREILLY: In an attempt to facilitate residents of   Awasiya  , located on the outskirts of the city,   (CUGL) will soon be setting up a CNG pump. Work on the pump will commence after ‘no objection certificate’ ( ) from departments concerned is received.

 Speaking with TOI,   Development Authority (BDA) secretary SP Singh said, “The Central Uttar Pradesh Gas Limited had recently conducted a survey at the Ramganga Nagar Awasiya Yojana in order to identify a plot to set up a CNG pump. A plot measuring 1,328 square metres has been identified by the company at Ramganga Nagar for the purpose.”
  
 Singh added, “No objection certificate is now awaited from the departments concerned such as fire brigade and department of explosives and as soon as the certificate is received, the construction work for CNG pump will be initiated at the site. Cost of installing the pump is yet to be ascertained.
 
 According to BDA sources, the upcoming CNG filling pump will have as many as four nozzles at the pump which will enable four vehicles to get refilled at a time.
  
 At present, the city has two CNG pumps which are located near Satellite bus station and Swaley Nagar, adjacent to Qila area of the city. Officials said since the numbers of CNG vehicles is steadily rising in the city, just two pumps are insufficient.
  
 “Every day, long queues of vehicles at the two pumps is witnessed. The vehicles queue up since early morning and it takes almost two-three hours before a vehicle is filled. Be it afternoon or evening, the situation serpentine queues of both heavy and light reach to the main roads at Satellite and Qila areas. Setting up another CNG pump will surely be a relief to commuters,” said Mayank Jyoti, a resident of Civil Lines who owns a CNG vehicle.
  
 Bareilly Development Authority has also initiated the process of registration for allotment of as many as 110 residential flats under the Ramganga Nagar Awasiya Yojana earlier this month. The development authority has set a target to allot a total of 254 flats to people under the housing scheme during the current fiscal. The process of registration of flats under the Yojana will continue till June 6, TOI had earlier reported.
