GURUGRAM:   police claimed to have cracked the case of   of the 52-year-old woman in Bhud Pada Colony within hours with the arrest of a 35-year-old man late on Monday from Chippiwara Colony in Sohna. 

 According to police, a week ago, the woman, Krishna, had caught her daughter-in-law in an objectionable position with the   —   Goyal — and had reprimanded the duo. To   insult, a drunk Goyal went to Krishna’s house in Sohna’s Bhud Pada Colony, tried to rape her and then stabbed her to death. Though it was a planned murder, the clue that helped cops track Honey was a   he had left behind at the crime spot, and his blood-stained footprints. 
 
 During interrogation, Goyal told cops he was the person who had arranged the wedding of Krishna’s son with the woman around a year ago. Following the marriage, he fell in love with Krishna’s daughter-in-law. They were successful in keeping the affair under wraps, till March 26, when Krishna, who routinely used to visit her husband’s tailoring shop to deliver his lunch, returned home early and caught them red-handed. After she ordered Goyal to leave the house and warned him of dire consequences, he planned to kill her. 
 
 On Monday, finding Krishna alone at home, a drunk Goyal barged in. He locked their pet dog in one of the rooms, and then attempted to rape her. He dropped her on the floor and hit her head with a grinding stone. 
 
 As Krishna tried to overpower him and rushed out of the house, Goyal followed her and stabbed her on the neck multiple times till he was sure she was dead. As there were blood stains on his clothes, Goyal went to the room of Krishna’s son, and changed. In a rush, he forgot one of his pair of shoes at the crime spot, and the blood stained footprints. 
 
 When cops reached the spot, the shoe, footprints and a strand of hair in the hand of the deceased turned up as vital clues. Using sniffer dogs and following the footprints, the cops ended up at Goyal’s home on Monday night, and started grilling him. In no time, Goyal confessed to his crime, following which he was taken into custody. 
 
 “We will produce him in a city court on Wednesday,” said Birem Singh Poswal, ACP (Sohna).
 
