SALEM: District   president R P   on Thursday said efforts were on to save the ailing Arulmigu Sugavaneswarar temple elephant, Rajeswari. Recently, Madras high court had allowed a petition seeking euthanasia of the elephant, which is not able to move.

 “I have contacted Dr Kushal Sharma, an expert in treating elephants with bone fractures, in Guwahati. He will come down to the city on May 3. I am also trying to reach experts in   and Thrissur in Kerala, and international experts in Vietnam, Cambodia and  ,” Gopinath told TOI.
 
 The BJP leader is also all set to move the high court against the mercy killing of the temple elephant. Pointing out that Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) officials were the custodian of Rajeswari, he held them responsible for the present condition of the elephant.
 
 “The elephant is in a critical condition due to the sheer negligence and mismanagement of HR&CE officials, who failed to provide the animal proper care,” Gopinath said, adding, “Elephant is a protected species under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and the heritage animal of India. The Madras high court had earlier directed HR&CE officials to maintain Rajeswari properly and efficiently in a location outside the temple complex. The present camp near   was thus formed and the elephant was shifted to this place in 2016.”
 
 The elephant sustained bone fractures on March 18 after it fell down as HR&CE officials lifted the animal using an earthmover. “This act of HR&CE officials has further deteriorated the health of the elephant,” the BJP leader lamented.
 
 Gopinath said the veterinarians treating Rajeswari had on March 19 mentioned in the register maintained by HR&CE officials that the animal’s forelimb was fractured and urged them to bring in experts to treat the same. “HR&CE officials didn’t do anything in this regard. Though they made arrangements for the treatment with the available resources, the health condition of the elephant hasn’t improved,” he said.
 
 The BJP leader also warned HR&CE officials that as the custodian of the elephant they would be held responsible if anything happens to Rajeswari.
 
 When contacted, T  , joint commissioner of HR&CE, Salem district, denied all the charges. He said they have taken all possible steps to save the ailing elephant. “We are trying our best to save the animal with the available resources,” he said.
 
 
