NEW DELHI: To get above the   in the way   are scored in the   of various education boards, Delhi University’s sub-committee for undergraduate online   on Friday recommended a qualifying test for   seeking admission in the university. The sub-committee initially deliberated on such a test for students from education boards other than the Central Board of Secondary Education, but concluded that this would be discriminatory and so decided on a qualifying test for all candidates, irrespective of the boards under which they did their schooling.

 The proposal now awaits the final approval of the admission committee and the vice-chancellor. The online aptitude test, as recommended by the panel, will consist of questions with multiple choice answers. For the 2018-19 session, the test will be conducted for admission into courses such as mathematics, English, economics and computer science and will be extended to all undergraduate courses from 2019-20 onward.
 
 General category aspirants will be required to be in the 50th percentile to become eligible for admission. The qualifying measures for OBC and SC/ST students are 45 and 40, respectively. The university, however, can lower the qualifying percentile if the seats on offer remain unfilled in any of the categories even after the declaration of the last cutoff. After getting past the qualifying test, allotment of seats will be done on the basis of marks obtained in the Class XII exams.
 
 “The committee acknowledged the extreme difference of marks across different boards, quality of students from different boards, different assessment parameters and marking schemes and different levels of moderation practices adopted by different boards, which leads to varied problems in admissions, as well as learning environment of the university,” the minutes of Friday’s meeting read.
 
 According to a senior DU official, the university first mulled the idea of asking education boards to furnish their moderation policy and marking patterns, but realised that not too many boards would be ready to furnish such details. “Creating a level playing field for all students from different boards is a very complex exercise,” the official said. “An aptitude test would at least give us an idea of the level of learning a student had for a particular subject in comparison to another from the same or a different board." The final admission will be based on the traditional cutoff aggregate that DU has followed, but only those who get past the aptitude test will be eligible.
 
 
