KOLKATA: A step taken by   may become the new role model for   to rein in rash driving by drivers of private and mini buses.

 Stung by the bus accidents in the city this week that left four persons dead and another losing both legs, the police now want the transport department to allow them recommend temporary suspension of bus permits ranging from a week to a month. Kolkata Police is in discussion with the state to make necessary legal changes. The RTO, though, will have the final say on permanent cancellation of bus permit.
 
 “We have been recommending cancellation of licences in the city. But, we need to make the bus owners equally responsible. Hence, we have begun a major drive to make drivers accountable,” said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar.
 
 Police are also preparing a robust database of commercial bus drivers. “Unlike in the past when we concentrated on the traffic offences committed by one vehicle, we will now concentrate on the offences committed by the bus driver. Thus, identifying repeat offenders will become easier and more scientific,” explained a senior officer.
 
  
  
 As a first step, police are asking all bus unions to provide traffic guards with names of their drivers after duly verifying them from police. The cops will then get each route starter (one who maintains the roster at bus stands) to provide them a list of drivers plying their buses on a particular day. “There are several bus unions which operate on multiple routes. For example, we really don’t know which driver is driving a bus on route 18A on a particular day and then shifting to 18B/1 the very next day,” said an officer.
 
 According to  , there will be two parameters that will lead police to seek temporary suspension of permits. “While one will deal with traffic violations by driver, the other will deal with bus owners not getting verified or major mechanical errors like using resoled tyres beyond its legally permitted time frame or driving with broken dippers,” said an officer. In Delhi, the transport department had cancelled permits of about 2,500 operators of contract and mini buses, whose addresses were found to be incorrect by Delhi cops.
 
  
  
 
