NEW DELHI: Interrogation of the two arrested hackers and analysis of their laptops and phones have given details about their   links and show how Pakistan’s spy agency was using the two Kashmiri youths to spread chaos using social network, sources said on Saturday.

 The two arrested men, Shahid Malla and Aadil Hussain, are in police custody for two days. The Pakistanis suspected to be in touch with them have been identified as Faisal Afzal, who is based in Pakistan and Amir Muzaffar, based in Dubai, police said. 
 
 A source in an intelligence agency said that Faisal used a Facebook account ‘1337.Hacxer’ which was created in June 2014 and was accessed using an internet connection belonging to Lahore-based Pakistan Telecommunication Company Limited ( ). The account also had a registered mobile number. The second hacker, Amir Muzaffar, was using a Facebook account with the name of ‘kashmiri.cheetah’ that was created in February 2017.
 
  said that a major part of the investigation is now focusing on the money trail between foreign players and the two Kashmiri youths.
 
 A team will soon leave for J&K to conduct on-the-ground investigation. The two men, Malla and Hussain, have been taken on police remand for two days and are being interrogated at Mandir Marg.
 
 The teams have also found that they had been selling personal data of Indians and foreigners online.
 
 The analysis of their Facebook accounts has revealed that they even posted advertisements to lure people to obtain this data, which they had access to by   sites, for a price. According to initial information, the two had data on several American, German and UK citizens, an officer added.
 
 During their interrogation, the two men allegedly confessed they acted at the behest of their Pakistan and Dubai-based handlers and gave information about them, a source said.
 
 “Apart from hacking/defacing Indian websites, the two ISI hackers, Afzal and Muzaffar, are deeply involved in illegal acquiring of data from various Indian websites, which is then misused by the Pak agency,” Malla is believed to have told cops.
 
 With the network getting bigger, a 10-member team led by additional DCP KPS Malhotra has been formed to reach to the core of this racket. 
 
 Investigators also found that this was the same group that had hacked the website of NGT after the surgical strikes in 2016.
 
 
