KOLKATA: The mobocracy that led to the assault on a young couple at   station on Monday has shifted online. Though the net has created new battlegrounds, old monsters have not been demolished.

 
 At least two elderly men, apparently at the forefront of Monday’s  , have been forced to deactivate their   accounts after being   relentlessly. Another person, who expressed “solidarity” with those who thrashed the couple, received over a thousand messages with questions ranging from his “desires” to his “mental health”.
 
 One man’s daughter-in-law has jumped into the fray, seeking to defend her father-in-law who, she says, was not even present at the scene. Another radio jockey (RJ) faced the heat after trying narrate the “actual” incident as told to her by one of her “sisters”, who was in the coach at the time of the incident. The RJ recorded a clip longer than 10 minutes to narrate how the couple was engaged in “rangralia”, including their “exact” physical movements. She further claimed that the couple was trying to “steal the moment” with their “act” and how they were at fault for being thrashed. Though she managed to delete her video clip, screenshots and her video on YouTube is now visible to thousands.
 
 Interestingly, the social media backlash comes at a time when both police and the   claim that not a single witness has come forward to report the incident. In the absence of the victims — who are yet to show up — witness’ statements could have been crucial to identify the mob and take legal action.
 
 The war on the net has, for the time being, overshadowed the Monday incident and sparked off another debate. At least two Facebook users have lodged police complaints claiming they have been victimised online. One of them — aged 26 — had commented that youngsters, too, need to “refrain from making sweeping statements”.
 
 Users have been sharing pictures and links to profile of four people — who look similar to the men on the forefront Monday’s assault. They were heavily named and shamed online. On Wednesday night, a woman — claiming herself to be the daughter-in-law of one of the four men — posted on her Facebook wall: “Experienced another level of harassment tonight. My father-inlaw’s profile was being unethically shared and circulated as one of the harassers in the Kolkata Metro assault incident. We were utterly disturbed by the whole fiasco. He was at home with his family that entire evening. We have no idea how this happened. Check before posting such things as it could not only malign someone’s character but also mentally traumatise them. I myself condemn the incident but as sensible citizens we can’t bring justice to someone by maligning others. Please stop sharing his profile.”
 
 Faced with several abusive posts, her ‘father-in-law’s’ profile was deactivated soon after. Another profile shared was that of a Konnagar resident, who also deactivated his profile after being trolled.
 
 Two others, however, stayed put till late evening on Thursday. One of them vehemently refused to have been present at the incident spot. Though he opined against showcasing any physical proximity in public place through his post, the man who claims himself to be an “uncompromising Hindu warrior” in his introduction asked people to refrain from abusing him. “I have the courage to stand by my opinion. But, that I was present at incident spot is false. Spreading rumours and maligning me is uncalled for,” he wrote in his post. Despite him trying to distance himself from the incident, but standing by his views, several users refused to believe him. They abused him for his views, which many termed as “detrimental to the society”.
 
 The fourth person, however, remained silent as his profile was private and users could not comment on it.
 
