With UP being one of the most film friendly state in the country, attracting several filmmakers to shoot their movies here, Lucknow in the past has seen shooting of various movies and TV serials. This in turn has given job opportunities to several aspiring actors from the city, who are not only getting work, but also a chance to share screen space with their favourite actors. 
Ajay Devgn-starrer ' ', which was shot in Lucknow, gave a chance to more than 40 actors from Lucknow to showcase their acting skills on the big screen. 
 Raj Kumar Gupta, the director of the movie, seemed mighty impressed with the acting skills of the actors here. "I have always believed in casting theatre actors as they bring a lot to films. I have also tried to cast actors from local places where the film is set, as it brings in flavour and authenticity. 'Raid' is set in Lucknow which has a very active theatre scene and very talented actors," he was quoted as saying in a recent article. 
 The local actors in the film, coming from different backgrounds, have decades of theatre experience and have also acted in several other films and serials earlier. But shooting for such a big budget movie with such big actors has been a once in a lifetime experience for them. Actor Udayvir Singh, an ex-banker, who has also acted in a few television serials and films, is portraying the character of Director General, Income Tax, in the upcoming movie. He says, "I have many scenes in the movie with Ajay Devgn. I am playing his boss in Raid and he has to report everything to me.   ko, yun samajh lijiye, ki woh star hai hi nahi, he is just like one of us and is very friendly. I remember, we had a long scene to be shot where I had to speak the majority of the dialogues. So, Ajay thought the scene will take more time than expected but somehow it got over early. So he walked up to me and said 'Thank you, jaldi chhod diya mujhe. Main toh soch raha tha khana scene enact karne ke saath-saath khaayenge'."
  
  Simran Nisha, a theatre artist from Lucknow, flirts with Ajay Devgn in the film and Udayvir Singh, an actor from Lucknow, plays Ajay Devgn’s boss in 'Raid' (BCCL) 
 
 Another local theatre actor, Ajay Singh, who has acted in movies like ' ' and 'Jolly LLB', will now be seen as an Income Tax officer in 'Raid'. "Koi stardom waali baat nahi hai Ajay ji mein. Agar main kuchh galat bhi kar raha hota tha toh he used to help me better the scenes by guiding me," says Ajay, who shot for around 40-days with the ' ' star. Ajay is also all praises for director  . "Most of the time local artists are considered low grade, but under his direction, we never felt that we are local artists. He treated and guided us to perform to the best of our capabilities. Once, after watching our scene, Raj Kumar sir came to us and we had a talk on Lucknow theatre for over an hour. He also said that after watching us act, he thinks that there is a lot of talent in Lucknow. We are blessed that while sitting in the comfort of our hometown, we are able to work with such big stars, otherwise actors struggle in Mumbai for years to work with actors like Ajay Devgn," says Ajay.
 
  
  Yash Chaurasia, theatre actor will be seen as a n income tax officer in 'Raid' (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) 
 
 Simran Nisha, who plays the youngest sister of   in the movie, says, "I was worried initially about working with such big stars, but when I did, I really enjoyed the shooting. I portray a character of a village girl who is unmarried and is always on the lookout for her match. When Ajay sir comes to raid our house, I try to flirt with him. Ajay sir is a very simple and down-to-earth man. And similar is the case with Saurabh sir who is also very supportive of the co-actors."
  
  Kamal Yadav, a Review Officer in the Governor House and television actor and Mahesh Chandra Deva, theatre and film actor from Lucknow, plays the role of an income tax officer in 'Raid' (BCCL) 
 
 On a high after sharing screen space with Ajay Devgn, the local actors believe that the films being shot here do not only provide big opportunity for them to be on screen, in fact, also provide a big exposure to them, "To work in a big budget movie with big actors in itself is a blessing for the local actors," says Kamal Yadav, a Review Officer in the Governor House and also a veteran television actor, who is acting as a member of the Income Tax team in the movie. "Ek senior actor ke saath kaam karne ka alag hi mazaa hota hai, kuchh alag hi seekhne ko milta hai. In this movie, I learned from Ajayji how one can act naturally and it cannot be described in words. I also got a chance to meet Saurabh Shukla, who is another great actor and also was very supportive towards local artists," shares Kamal. 
 
  
  Ajay Singh, a local theatre actor, with Raj Kumar Gupta, director 'Raid' (BCCL) 
 
 Lucknow boy and theatre artist Yash Chaurasia, who will be seen portraying the role of one of the team members besides Ajay Devgn in 'Raid', is also very excited to have shared screen space with the Shivay actor. Yash, who is a passout of Bharatendu Natya Akademi, is very excited about the release of the film and shares, "I am actually on cloud nine at the moment. To work with a star like Ajay sir is like a dream come true for some aspiring actors like us. This is the first film in Lucknow which was shot here extensively for such a long time. I still remember the time when we used to get up early in the morning in winters to face the camera, which was the most interesting part of the shooting. I was in awe of Ajay sir. Main unke baaju main khade hokar, I used to watch him and try to imitate his style of working and acting." 
 Echoing similar views are Parshuram and Mahesh Chandra Deva, who too are a part of the Ajay's team in the movie. "It's was a great opportunity for the actors from he city who cannot pursue their dreams in Mumbai due to various reasons." says Mahesh Chandra Deva, who has also acted in the recently shot film 'Mr Paanwala' in the city. "It was also a learning experience for actors like us who don't often get the opportunity to work with such big stars," says Parshuram.
 — Abhishek.Shukla2
 @timesgroup.com
 
 
 Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
