Celebrating the International Day against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia(  ), an event took place at  , in the city recently. Anchored by   and Jerrmayah, the highlight of the event was a fashion show in which members of the LGBTIQ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender/Transsexual, Intersex and Queer) community walked the ramp showcasing designer outfits, followed by a cultural programme in which several plays and stage performances were presented. 

  
  (L) Abeer Shukla (R) Anu with a friend (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  Singh Yadavendra, the organiser, said, "IDAHOT is celebrated every year to mark the day when the   removed homosexuality from the category of mental disorder. Events like these help us in reaching and achieving our goal." Talking about the event, Yadavendra said, "We are getting a very positive response from Lucknowites. Last year we organized a parade, then a flashmob and now this. The response is positive and people are accepting us in a big way. The LGBTIQ community is really getting accepted by city folk, all thanks to such events happening in the city."
 
  
  (L) Payal Singh (R) Sharon (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 The event began with welcoming the audience and the chief guests and giving a brief introduction about them and their individual contribution towards IDAHOT. It was followed by Ardhnarshewar Dance performance by  , an activist of the LGBTIQ Community. Later, a panel discussion by Deepak Kabir, Payal and Sadaf Jafer had everyone glued on their seats. 
 Several short films made by Darvesh on the community were also screened at the event. 
 The event concluded on a high note with an alluring kathak ballet presented by a group of dancers followed by a ramp walk by the members of LGBTIQ community who put their most fashionable foot forward.
 
  
  (L) Piyush Singh and Shivam Goswami (R) Preeti (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  (L) Sayed Raza (C)   (R) Deepak Kabir (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  (L) Rakhi Kishor (C) Sadaf Jafar (R) Saleem Kidwai (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  Vijit Singh and Privendra Singh (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
