Mumbai:   has re-engineered its product offerings to make it healthier. The company said it has reduced the sodium content by 20% in  , and has added more dietary fibre in its products. Additionally, its mayonnaise now has 40% less oil that will lead to a calorie reduction of 11% in burgers.

 With growing awareness among consumers about wellness and pressure from all quarters to provide healthier alternatives, food companies are increasingly changing their menu to bring it up to speed with current realities. Beverage giants   and   have set targets globally to reduce calorie counts. While   is also cutting down on the sodium level in its products, Nestle has just launched a low-sugar Milkybar. Most packaged food companies are working to make their products healthier.
 
 On Tuesday Hardcastle Restaurants, the master franchisee for McDonald’s restaurants in west and south India, said its ‘McAloo Tikki’ burger is now a “balanced meal”. The franchisee serves nearly 250 million consumers each day.
 
 The company also said its patties now come without preservatives, and the refined flour wraps are being replaced by whole grain options. In desserts, too, its soft serves —a type of ice cream — now are made by 100% milk, making it “96% fat-free”.
 
 At a media meet,   VC Amit Jatia said, “Consumers have been shaping our menu for many years. Food, like technology, is evolving and changing every day. Through these measures that focus on nutritious food, we are going to redefine how consumers consume at QSRs (Quick Service Restaurants). The impact of these changes will be on 75-80% products consumers buy at McDonald’s. This is just the beginning. We have the foundation of our supply chain to make our products wholesome. Nutritious food is not a mere tick in the box. We want to increase the number of restaurants that serve nutritious food and we expect our consumer base to grow.” Hardcastle Restaurants is a subsidiary of Westlife Development that focuses on putting up and operating QSRs in India, and operates a chain of McDonald’s restaurants.
 
 McDonald’s has been in India for 22 years. The company said business has been on an upswing with 10 consecutive quarters of positive same-store sales growth.
 
 
