Gurgaon’s Sector 55 resident Nitin Aggarwal, who works as the CFO in  , had to rush out of an important board meeting on Tuesday afternoon to his son’s school for an emergency. The good thing was that it was for a good reason. Meetings could wait for Nitin had just learnt that his son   was among the four students who had topped the CBSE   board exams nationally with a stupendous 99.8% marks. “I just couldn’t stop telling all my colleagues and friends that my son had topped the country. It was such a happy surprise,” says Nitin.
Prakhar, a student of Delhi Public School, Gurgaon, scored 100 in English, Maths, Science, and Social Science, while 99 in French, giving him a near-perfect aggregate of 499/500, the joint-highest in the country. But the 16-year-old says he was hardly expecting to do this well. “I was hoping I would do well but never in my dreams had I imagined that I would top the country. 99.8% marks are unbelievable. I was both shocked and ecstatic when I saw the marks. I kept re-checking if they were my marks,” Prakhar tells us. Does he rue missing out on that one mark that could have given him a perfect score? He laughs and says, “I’m just happy with whatever I got. I didn’t even expect this.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Many would be surprised that Prakhar did not take any coaching for his 99.8% marks and studied only a few hours every day. “I did not take any coaching because the school material was enough. Throughout the year, I studied for one or two hours every day. I did not go for the 8-10 hour study schedule as I didn’t feel it was necessary. I didn’t pressurise myself much. My parents were very supportive too,” he says, regarding his study schedule. In fact, he has one piece of advice for future board exam takers. “I would say the number of hours you study doesn’t matter much because it’s more about the quality of studies. If you focus, understand whatever you have read, you don’t need to slog for long hours,” says Prakhar.
 
  
  CELEBRATION TIME: DPS Gurgaon principal Aditi Misra feeds Prakhar a laddoo while Prakhar’s family looks on
 
 Prakhar’s family says he was always focussed on relaxation and recreation, even during exam prep. His mother Prachi recalls, “He would take regular breaks, and use them to play the piano, play table-tennis with his younger brother or even watch TV for some time. He meditates to stay calm. All that was important to him. He did not let exam be anything stressful and that is what worked in his favour.” Prakhar is interested in robotics and wants to take the Science stream, looking forward to a career in technology. He says, “I am looking forward to upcoming technologies like robotics, automation, and artificial intelligence. I want to do something in that field because not a lot of people go for it and it is something that interests me a lot.” The one thing the   hasn’t done yet is demanded something for his achievement. His mother Prachi says, “He is usually not a demanding kid and so far, he hasn’t asked us for anything. He is just enjoying this moment for the time being like he should.”
 
