BENGALURU: JD(S) state president HD   trained his guns on   on Saturday by alleging a Rs 5,450 crore iron ore scam in the state-owned Mysore Minerals Limited in his tenure 2014-2017.

 
 Kumaraswamy alleged that iron ore to the extent of 181 lakh metric tonnes was diverted “illegally” over a period of three years from two Mysore Minerals Limited (MML) mines of   and  , located in Sandur taluk of Ballari district. He alleged that the scam was perpetrated by state government officials in collusion with four contractors, including the controversial firm that was previously accused of having a quid pro quo deal with the then BJP chief minister BS Yeddyurappa during the peak of illegal mining in the state.
 
 Government officials have denied any “large scale misappropriation or diversion of iron ore” from MML.
 
 
  
 
 At a media interaction on Saturday, Kumaraswamy released a June 2017 internal inquiry report of the mines and geology department that had pointed out to fudging of MML logbooks and disproportionate entries in the books vis-a-vis the ore actually mined. “Now, the main perpetrator of the entire scam––Tushar Giri Nath––continues to work in the CM’s office and is being protected by Siddaramaiah,” alleged Kumarswamy.
 
 When contacted,   refused to react to the allegations and said: “While the allegations are for a period of three years, I was there only for three months, with officers like M Maheshwar Rao having held the post for a longer tenure than me. It is difficult to even imagine that such huge quantities can be siphoned off in three months.”
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, top officials in the government admitted that the records were manipulated at MML and that a disciplinary action was initiated by mines minister Vinay Kulkarni after the internal inquiry reported the “manipulation of records”.
 
 “Based on suspected wrong reporting of ore production, the mines minister had ordered an inquiry which prima facie revealed there was indeed manipulation of reports, ” said an official.
 
 “The MML personnel claimed that the books were ‘adjusted’ to ensure that there were changes in the pre-determined production quota ,” added the official.
 
 In 2014, MML claimed to have produced more ore than what was actually mined. The official attributed the discrepancies in MML to data-recording based on “presumed” 20 tons per trip when the actual stock was lower.
 
 It is said that the disciplinary action report has not yet been finalized and that the file has not come to the notice of   or CM.
 
 Kumaraswamy dared the government, which is trying to retain power in Karnataka, to conduct an impartial investigation into the matter. He hinted that the ore allegedly siphoned from MML has been dispersed within the state and one single private steel firm has benefitted from it.
 
