Ludhiana: Even as the city will get its   on Monday, suspense over the names for the post of mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor continue.

 Though Congress, which has 62 councillors in the House, is maintaining silence over the issue, sources revealed that competition for the mayor’s post is among Balkar Singh, Gurpreet Gogi and Pal Singh Grewal.
 
 For the posts of senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor, names of Shyam Sunder Malhotra, Dr Jaiparkash, Rakesh Prashar and Baljider Kaur are being considered.
 
 The final announcement will be made by the Patiala divisional commissioner in the MC House.
 
 The sources revealed that name has been finalized by chief minister Amarinder Singh and cabinet minister Tripat Inder Bajwa will bring an envelope to the MC for final announcement.
 
 All members of the house including councillors and MLAs will be told about the names and in case they agree with the same, then those persons will be declared mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor. But in case there is some difference of opinion over the names, then MLAs will propose the names and house members will vote in their favour for the final election.
 
 Local bodies minister Navjot Sidhu said, “The CM has all rights to elect the mayor and only he can disclose the names.”
 
 Congress MP Ravneet Bittu said, “We have no information about the names, but one thing is sure seniority and sincerity of the leaders will be taken into account. We had conveyed the names of probable candidates to the CM when we met him.” “It is his prerogative to decide so we need not worry about the same.”
 
 Bittu said people will get a good leader to run the civic body so that the city could attain new heights on the development front.
 
 Box: Videography of entire event
 
 The MC has got four cameras installed inside the meeting hall and entire proceeding will be captured on these cameras. Each member while taking oath will be captured. In case voting takes place to finalize the name of mayor, it will also be video graphed and kept for records.
 
 Box: SAD-BJP to play strong opposition
 
 The SAD-BJP councillors are ready for playing the role of strong opposition in the MC House. On Sunday, the newly-elected councillors of BJP conducted a meeting with senior leaders of the party. The councillors were encouraged to perform their role strongly for the development of city. Even SAD councillors would meet before attending the oath taking ceremony.
 
 
