NEW DELHI: In a case of alleged medical negligence, the   ( ) held that the Himachal Pradesh State Commission had “wrongly exonerated” a hospital and its staff, who were actually guilty of medical negligence and deficiency in service that resulted in a woman losing her right arm.

 The apex consumer body, therefore, directed the hospital to pay Rs 2 lakh to the victim in addition to the Rs 2.93 lakh already awarded by the state commission. “We hold that, it was negligence on the part of the doctors working at  . Therefore, we direct the hospital to pay an additional sum of Rs 2 lakh to the complainant..,” presiding member Dr B C Gupta and member Dr S M Kantikar held.
 
 The woman visited the hospital in Shimla after experiencing abdominal pain. She was examined by Dr Rita Mittal and diagnosed with fibroids and endometrial hyperplasia after an ultrasound. The doctor told her to undergo a minor operation which took place on July 19, 2006. The woman, however, alleged that the procedure was performed without anaesthesia. She said that on Dr Mittal’s instructions, nurse Neelam Gupta administered injected   and Fortwin in her right arm. The patient alleged that the nurse was incompetent and she experienced tremendous pain both during the operation and when given the injections. 
 
 Later, following unbearable pain, doctors referred her to Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH), Shimla, where her right forearm above elbow was amputated, the woman said. She lodged a complaint with the police and sought over Rs 37 lakh as compensation from the state commission.
 
 The respondents contested the woman’s claims saying the services rendered to her were free of charge and therefore she did not fall in the category of consumer. The doctor argued that the procedure was performed on a day when 14 other cases were lined up and she was taken to the operation theatre around 1.45 pm. It was also said that the nurse had over 10 years of experience. The operation, it was claimed, was performed within five minutes and the patient did not suffer from any pain. 
 
 “The patient was properly sedated,” the national commission was informed. Post-operation the patient was kept under observation, but she did not complain of any pain in her right arm, the respondents said. At 2.30pm, the woman’s attendant told Dr Mittal that the patient was having severe pain in her right arm. As there were no clinical signs or changes in the colour of the patient’s right arm, the doctor prescribed a pain killer injection. However, at 3.30pm, the patient showed feeble radial pulse and her right forearm had tuned pale, thereby, indicating the beginning of ischemic process. At around 4pm, when ischemia was confirmed she was immediately referred to IGMCH.
 
 The medical record of IGMCH revealed that the primary disease was gangrene of right arm as a result of acute limb ischemia, after she was injected at DDU hospital. 
 
 
