MADURAI: A 55-year-old woman, who was strangulated to death, was found in front of her house at a village near Peraiyur on Friday morning. Since the   jewels she was wearing were found missiMadurai: A 55-year-old woman was found strangulated to death in front of her house at a village near Peraiyur on Friday morning. Since the gold ornaments she wore were found missing, police suspect it to be a case of murder for gain.

 The victim was identified as M  , 55, from   village near Villoor. Police said that she had been living alone in the house ever since her husband Mari passed away five years ago. Her only son   is residing in Madurai city.
 
 Police said that villagers who passed by the woman’s house in the morning found the body and immediately alerted the local police. Based on a complaint, a case was registered with   station. A team swung into action, rushed to the spot and started an inquiry. The body was sent to the government hospital for autopsy. Madurai district superintendent of police N Manivannan too visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. A scientific team was also pressed into action to collect evidences.
 
 Police said that Periya Karuppayi was strangulated using a rope and she was wearing a gold chain and studs weighing around three sovereigns. The worth of the stolen jewels was estimated around Rs 60, 000.
 
  police suspect it to be case of murder for gain
 
 The victim was identified as M Periya Karuppayi, 55, from Thennamanallur village near Villoor. Police said that she had been living separately in the house since her husband Mari passed away five years back. Her only son Ganesamoorthy is residing in Madurai city.
 
 Police said the villagers who passed by the woman’s house in the morning found the body and immediately alerted the local police. Based on a complaint a case was registered with Villoor police station. A team swung into action, rushed to the spot and started the inquiry. Soon, the body was sent to government hospital for an autopsy. Madurai district superintendent of police N Manivannan too visited the spot and conducted an inquiry. Scientific team was also pressed into action to collect the evidences.
 
 Police said that Periya Karuppayi was strangulated using a rope and was wearing a gold chain and studs, all weighing around three sovereigns. The worth of the stolen jewels was estimated around Rs 60, 000.
 
 They suspect that the murderers should have been aware that the woman slept alone and targeted her at the midnight. A police officer said they have not limited the incident to murder for gain angle alone. 
 
 They are inquiring in all possible angles like previous enmity and property related disputes. The accused would be soon brought to the book, he added.
 
 
