The nominations for 2018 BRIT Awards have been revealed and   leads with five nominations, while   is nominated for four awards.

  According to source, the 22-year-old leads the charge at this year's Brit Awards with five nominations, including best album.
 
  
  
 
  The   is also up for British best female solo artist, British album of the year, British single and British artist video of the year. She narrowly beat Sheeran, who is nominated for four awards, including British album of the year.
 
  Meanwhile, former One Direction bandmates Harry Styles,   and   will go head to head in the category of British Artist Video of the Year.
 
  Styles' eccentric piano ballad 'Sign Of The Times' and Malik's   collaboration 'Don't wanna live forever' will battle it out with Payne's slick dance track 'Strip that down' featuring Quavo at the star-studded ceremony.
 
  Besides being the leading nominees, both Sheeran and Lipa are set to perform at this year's Brits, joining a lineup that also includes Sam Smith, Stormzy and Foo Fighters.
 
  The full list of nominations is here:
 
  British Artist Video of the Year
 
  Anne-Marie, 'Ciao Adios'
 
  Calvin Harris Feat. Pharrell Williams/Katy Perry/Big Sean, 'Feels'
 
  Clean Bandit Feat. Zara Larsson, 'Symphony'
 
  Dua Lipa, 'New Rules'
 
  Ed Sheeran, 'Shape of You'
 
  Harry Styles, 'Sign of The Times'
 
  Jonas Blue Feat. William Singe, 'Mama'
 
  Liam Payne Feat. Quavo, 'Strip That Down'
 
  Little Mix, 'Touch'
 
  ZAYN and Taylor Swift, 'I Don't Wanna Live Forever'
 
  British Breakthrough Act
 
  Dave
 
  Dua Lipa
 
  J Hus
 
  Loyle Carner
 
  Sampha
 
  British Female Solo Artist
 
  Dua Lipa
 
  Jessie Ware
 
  Kate Tempest
 
  Laura Marling
 
  Paloma Faith
 
  British Male Solo Artist
 
  Ed Sheeran
 
  Liam Gallagher
 
  Loyle Carner
 
  Rag'N'Bone Man
 
  Stormzy
 
  British Group
 
  Gorillaz
 
  London Grammar
 
  Royal Blood
 
  Wolf Alice
 
  The xx
 
  British Album of the Year
 
  Dua Lipa, Dua Lipa
 
  Ed Sheeran, รท
 
  J Hus, Common Sense
 
  Rag'n'Bone Man, Human
 
  Stormzy, Gang Signs & Prayer
 
  British Single
 
  Calvin Harris Feat. Pharrell Williams/Katy Perry/Big Sean, 'Feels'
 
  Clean Bandit Feat. Zara Larsson, 'Symphony'
 
  Dua Lipa, 'New Rules'
 
  Ed Sheeran, 'Shape of You'
 
  J Hus, 'Did You See'
 
  Jax Jones Feat. Raye, 'You Don't Know Me'
 
  Jonas Blue Feat. William Singe, 'Mama'
 
  Liam Payne Feat. Quavo, 'Strip That Down'
 
  Little Mix, 'Touch'
 
  Rag'n'Bone Man, 'Human'
 
  International Group
 
  Arcade Fire
 
  Foo Fighters
 
  Haim
 
  The Killers
 
  LCD Soundsystem
 
  International Female Solo Artist
 
  Alicia Keys
 
  Bjork
 
  Lorde
 
  P!nk
 
  Taylor Swift
 
  International Male Solo Artist
 
  Beck
 
  Childish Gambino
 
  DJ Khaled
 
  Drake
 
  Kendrick Lamar
 
  The star-studded event will take place on February 21 at London's O2 Arena. Comedian and actor Jack Whitehall will host the ceremony for the first time.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
