PUNE: With four festivals lined up this weekend, citizens has begun gearing up for the revelries. Various communities from the city will celebrate their traditional harvest festival and New Year on April 14 and 15.

 The Sikh community will celebrate the harvest festival of   on Saturday with family and friends. Speaking about the celebrations lined up for the day, city resident   said, “To celebrate Baisakhi, families visit the Gurudwara for kirtan followed by the langar. Baisakhi is celebrated because Guru Gobind Singh started the Khalsa Panth back in 1699 and gave the Sikhs a separate identity. The farmers celebrate it to welcome the harvest season. My family members will prepare special meals that will be enjoyed by all.” Basur also pointed out that community members tend to align functions, such as children's’ naming ceremony with Baisakhi as it is an auspicious day.
 
 Apart from Baisakhi, it is also the Tamil New Year on Saturday. City-based Vatsala Iyer said, “We celebrate our New Year, or Tamil Puththandu, by making savouries, like wada, and sweets, like Payassam, at home. The house is cleaned and decorated with rangoli and flowers. On the occasion, a puja is performed at home after which the   is read. This is followed by relishing the special meal cooked for the occasion. While these are typical celebrations at home, some people attend the reading of the panchang at the temple as well,” she explained.
 
 The Bengali community will bring in the New Year, or Poila Boishakh, on Sunday. “The festival is all about food, sweets, music and new clothes. According to tradition, Bengalis wear a new dress and greet elders to seek their blessings. This is followed by a lavish Bangaliana lunch that includes varieties of fish like malaikari illish, golda chingri, kosha mango and sweets like roshagulla, chamcham, and others,” explained Prabhat Roy. 
 
 He further stated, “The community comes together and celebrates with music, reminiscing Tagore’s songs, poems and dance. A grand community dinner is also planned on the occasion.”
 
 “A special puja is organized on the morning of the festival during which Goddess Lakshmi is worshipped. We usually plan family get-togethers over a special meal to mark the beginning of the New Year,” said Aurobindo Bose, a city resident. 
 
 The Malayali community will celebrate Vishu, the harvest festival and New Year on Sunday.
 
 
