AMRITSAR: In a surprise decision, the BJP removed its Punjab unit chief   on Saturday, replacing him with   MP  . 

 The latter, who was the mayor of the Amritsar municipal corporation from 2007 to 2012, had got elected to the upper house of the Parliament from Punjab in April 2016. Hoshiarpur MP Sampla, who is Union minister of state for social justice and empowerment, was said to be the Dalit face of the party in Punjab.
 
 Malik, a qualified engineer whose family has close relations with the RSS, began his political career as Amritsar district general secretary of BJP youth wing Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) and also remained in its executive body. 
 
 He was elected the municipal councillor three times from 1997 to 2002, 2002 to 2007 and 2007 to 2012. He also remained the leader of opposition in the Amritsar MC from 2002 to 2007. However, Malik lost the 2012 Amritsar MC elections from ward number 24, following which he went into oblivion till the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when he resurfaced in support of Union finance minister Arun Jaitley, who contested unsuccessfully from Amritsar against Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, who later resigned to contest the assembly elections in February 2017.
 
 Malik’s former colleague Somdev Sharma said that the former’s father Rajinder Malik and brother Rajesh Malik were pracharak and sampark pramukh of the local wing of the RSS in Amritsar. Reacting to Malik’s appointment as new   chief, party national secretary   said he would have the advantage of giving more time to Punjab. “In my opinion, Malik is the best choice for the state,” he said.
 
 Former Punjab BJP vice-president Rajindermohan Singh Chhina said Malik’s elevation as state president would strengthen the party to script new history in the ensuing General Election in 2019. 
 
 Former Punjab cabinet minister Anil Joshi said Malik was a visionary leader and also had the experience of the Rajya Sabha and could take the party to new heights. 
 
 Amritsar district BJP chief Rajesh Honey said Malik had been effectively delivering his duties in the Rajya Sabha. He said it was a matter of pride to have the state BJP president from Amritsar.
 
 
