Tirunelveli: A total of 3,827 people have been diagnosed with cancer at the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) between 2015 and 2017. Of these, more than 50% of the cases were detected only when they were in stage IV where the chances of survival are very less, head (in-charge) of the medical oncology department, V Arumugam has said. Talking to TOI after a cancer awareness programme on Thursday, he said that 80% of the 360 lung cancer cases detected in the said period were in stage IV. He attributed ignorance and neglect as reasons for delayed diagnosis. “When diagnosed at stage III or IV the life expectancy is not more than nine to 18 months. Only 10 to 20% cancer cases here were diagnosed in stage I or stage II,” he said. Among all types, breast cancer is found to be the most common among women. Out of the more than 2,100 diagnosed with cancer in TVMCH in the last three years, as many as 793 were diagnosed with breast cancer. “In the past more women were affected by cervix cancer but breast cancer has overtaken it. Generally, consumption of alcohol is cited as one of the reasons for the spread of breast cancer. But such lifestyle changes are yet to take place in this region,” he said. However, Dr Arumugam added that many breast cancer victims in the region are victims of no fault of theirs. “It could be due to exposure to chemicals or environmental factors,” he said.  “Among men, common types of cancer diagnosed in this region are oral and lung. This is predominantly due to tobacco usage.” he said and added that world over tobacco use and smoking accounts for 21% of cancer incidences and 71% of deaths. Earlier at the cancer awareness event at the hospital, dean S M Kannan said that the theme of the World Cancer Day this year is ‘We can. I Can’. Stating that treatment can cure cancer, he stressed on healthy food and lifestyle, regular exercise and avoiding use of tobacco products and alcohol to stay safe from cancer. He also said that master health checkup, ultrasound and CT scan can help early diagnosis of cancer. The dean also said that the regional cancer centre is being established at Rs 15 crore. It includes a building for Rs 3.5 crore while the remaining has been invested on infrastructure and equipment. The dean also gave away prizes to nursing students who won a debate on the reasons hindering cancer treatment.