NEW DELHI: It was a tale of two Delhi left-handers on Thursday night. One turned out for  , the other for  . One was brute force, the other sheer elegance. But it was a night when Shikhar Dhawan’s elegance trumped Rishabh Pant’s power; experience scoring over youth. Chasing an imposing 188, at his ‘home ground’ at Feroz Shah Kotla, Sunrisers opener   rose to the challenge put forth by Daredevils’ precocious Pant and led his team into the 2018 playoffs with an emphatic nine-wicket win with seven balls to spare.

 
 
 
 Daredevils’ hopes of progressing in the tournament ended with their eighth loss in 11 games. Dhawan (92*), who had a modest tournament so far, turned things around in style when his side needed it the most after the onslaught from his Delhi Ranji teammate Pant. The   table-toppers just strolled to the target with captain   (83*, 53b, 8x4, 2x6) adding a sixth half-century for the season.
 
 
 
 The duo compiled an unbeaten 176-run stand in 17 overs, never breaking sweat and just playing conventional cricketing strokes. They used the pace offered by the fast bowlers and used their power and reach to clobber spinners Amit Mishra and Shahbaz Nadeem for sixes.
 
  
  
 
 Earlier, on a sluggish Kotla track, every batsmen barring Pant found run-scoring an arduous challenge on Thursday night. For majority of the innings, Sunrisers managed to keep the Daredevils in check before a tornado in the form of Pant hit their bowlers from overs 15 to 20, which produced 89 runs.
 
 Pant just tore into the Sunrisers attack with vengeance after a second mix-up of the day had resulted in the run out of Harshal Patel. In the process, Pant, who is just 20, became IPL’s second youngest centurion and notched up the first ton for the Daredevils in   2018.
 
  
  
 
 It was a knock of two halves - one cautious in nature for the first 25 balls where he scored at run a ball while the remaining 38 balls produced close to 100 runs with boundaries to all corners of the field. In fact, he was the only Delhi batsman to get any measure of the Kotla track with Harshal’s 24 being the next highest score from the home side. It was the arrival of Haryana bowler in the middle that kicked Delhi and Pant’s innings into top gear.
 
 Harshal opened his shoulders with a couple of sixes off Siddharth Kaul while Pant started to take toll off Afghanistan legspinner Rashid Khan at the other end. Once Harshal got run out, Pant just hit top gear, slamming left-arm spinner Shakib al Hasan over deep mid-wicket to bring up his fifty.
 
 The Delhi wicketkeeper batsman started Rashid’s final over with a six and four and then treated Bhuvneshwar Kumar with sheer contempt. Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who gave away just seven runs in his first two overs, was collared to all parts off the field and leaked 44 from his last two overs - 43 off those coming off Pant’s willow.
 
 
