NEW DELHI: Having declared its intent by going pink for its 2017-18 edition, the   took on the issue of “societal preference, even meta-preference for a son” head on and linked it to economic performance of the country. 

 In a chapter titled “Gender and Son Meta Preference: Is Development Itself an antidote?”, the Survey addresses the skewed   in favor of males claiming this has notionally created “unwanted” girls, estimated at about 21 million.
 
 While active sex selection via fetal abortions is widely prevalent, son preference can also manifest itself in a subtler form. Parents may choose to keep having children until they get the desired number of sons. This is called son “meta” preference. A son “meta” preference – even though it does not lead to sex-selective abortion – may nevertheless be detrimental to female children because it may lead to fewer resources devoted to them.
 
 While drawing attention to the urgent need to confront the “societal preference, even meta-preference for a son, which appears inoculated to development”, the survey pitches for a new way of looking at the problem going beyond sex ratio at birth. “One indicator that potentially gets at this is the sex ratio of the last child (SRLC). A preference for sons will manifest itself in the SRLC being heavily skewed in favor of boys. On the other hand, an SRLC of close to 1.05:1 would imply that parents’ decisions to continue having children is uncorrelated with previous birth being a son or a daughter,” is stated.
 
 It turns out that Meghalaya stands out as an ideal state because both sex ratio at birth and sex ratio of last child are close to the benchmark. States such as Kerala, do not seem to practice sex selective abortions (since their sex ratios at birth are close to the biological benchmark) but indicate some son “meta” preference (skewed SRLC). Punjab and Haryana, on the other hand, exhibit extremely high son preference and meta preference – the overall sex ratios are significantly above the biological benchmark, and the sex ratio of the last child is heavily male skewed, implying parents are unlikely to stop after having a daughter.
 
 Another area of concern is use of contraception. Nearly 47% of women do not use any contraception, and of those who do, less than a third use female controlled reversible contraception. Among women using any contraception method at all, the percentage of Indian women using female-controlled reversible contraception is unusually low (32.8%).
 
 The survey also highlights that there has been a decline in the experience of physical and sexual violence. The survey shows that 62.3% of women in India were involved in decisions about their own health in 2005-06, which increased to 74.5% in 2015-16. Similarly, the percentage of women who did not experience physical or emotional violence increased from 63% to 71 per cent. 
 
 “Within India, there is significant heterogeneity, with the North-Eastern states (a model for the rest of the country) consistently out-performing others and not because they are richer; hinterland states are lagging behind but the surprise is that some southern states do less well than their development levels would suggest,” it is stated.
 
