Shimla: Tourist town of Shimla is facing acute shortage of drinking   with supply being made to the residents after a gap of three-four days. When the BJP had come to power in the Shimla municipal corporation on the promise of providing 24 hours water supply, now it is not even been able to maintain the supply once in 24 hours. While the residents of the hill town are left high and dry, authorities are blaming deficient rainfall in winters, power failures and technical snags for the existing problem.

 During the municipal corporation elections last year, water supply was a major issue for the BJP but after coming to power, the party has failed to resolve the issue. Several residents have alleged that water was being supplied after 3-4 days and that too for a very limited period due to which they are not able to store water. 
 
 Not only local residents, but even the tourists are facing problems due to water shortage. Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association president Mohinder Seth said failing to improve water supply in popular tourist town of Shimla was having adverse impact on the tourism industry. He added that the state government and the civic body should speed up the process to draw water from Satluj river.
 
 Summer Hill Ward councillor Shelli Sharma said in its election manifesto the BJP had claimed to provide 24-hour water supply to the Shimla residents, but now situation was that supply was being done after 3-4 days and that too in a low quantity that would not meet the demand for even a day. “People are furious and lodging their complaints, but the authorities are silent on the water issue,” she added.
 
 Sources said to meet the daily demand during off season, 45 million litres per day (mld) water was required while during peak tourist season around 55 mld water was needed, however, these days after leakages only around 30-35 mld water was being supplied.
 
 While mayor Kusum Sadrate did not answer calls made on her mobile phone, deputy mayor Rakesh Kumar Sharma said not only Shimla but the entire Himachal Pradesh was facing water shortage this time due to almost negligible rainfall during winter season. “April rainfall has improved the situation to a little extent,” he added.
 
 The deputy mayor said power cut and leakage in main lines were resulting into less lifting of water. He added that during the last couple of days only around 25 mld water against the daily lifting of 35-40 mld was being done due to break in main line and power failure.
 
 He said that efforts would be made to take up the matter with state government for the early completion of Satluj water scheme to meet the required demand. “We already have completed formalities on our part for this scheme,” he added.
 
 
