CHANDIGARH: It was a happy start of the week for 812 teachers working under   ( ) as the budget for their pending salaries was transferred to the clusters with an order to the principal-cum-cluster incharges for disbursement of salary. As per the salary order, the junior basic teachers (JBTs) and trained graduate teachers (TGTs) will get the 15% salary of the October month and those of November and December which were pending.

 To their respite, the salary budget for the month of January and February has also been transferred in advance along with arrears of dearness allowances (DA) from January 2017 to October 2017.
 
 It was almost 10 days back that ministry of human resource and development (HRD) had transferred the pending budget of Rs 41 crore for the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) to Chandigarh.
 
 President of  , Chandigarh   said, “It is a great relief to teachers as SSA society has not only transferred the pending salary of teachers but has also given advance budget of the salary for January and February month. Also, the arrear has been given. Since, there is enough budget this time, hopefully, there will not be any salary problem even after March.”
 
 The salaries of the SSA employees have remained pending for two months. Not only this, the department also has to pay its staff around 15% salary for the month of October.
 
 In October, the   administration had to take a loan from Chandigarh Renewal Energy and Science and Technology Promotion Society (CREST) to pay the salaries. Throughout the year, the SSA employees did not get their salaries on time as the ministry delayed transferring money to the UT.
 
 This was the second installment, which was pending since November. The first installment, too, was delayed and was released in September instead of April. The delay in the transfer of budget had become a major problem in the last three years, due to which the teachers’ salaries were being consistently delayed.
 
 Rana said, “The last three years have been a disaster for teachers and also for the students, who failed to get their text books and uniforms on time. This occurred due to the delay in transfer of complete budget by Government of India. We have fought hard with both Chandigarh administration and MHRD and even, sent a legal notice to them last year. Hopefully, after this, the budget problem of teachers and students will be solved.”
 
 
