PATNA: The   2018-19 presented by finance minister   disappointed many in the trade and industry bodies, while others lauded the Centre for proposing strengthening of airports, establishment of skill centres, introduction of health protection scheme for the poor and conversion of all metre gauge tracks into broad gauge ones.

 However, with the government not announcing any special scheme for a backward state like Bihar, there are some who are disappointed. “The Budget does not have any special economic package for Bihar. People of the state, especially those associated with trade and industries, were looking forward for such provisions in the Budget,” said Bihar Chamber of Commerce and Industries ( ) president P K Agrawal.
 
 Bihar Industries Association president K P S Keshri said they had suggested a ‘development fund’ for Bihar to boost industries in the state. “We are upset as no such allotment has been announced,” Keshri added. He, however, said the Budget was a balanced one, and not populist, as anticipated by many. “Some of the measures proposed in the Budget will strengthen the country’s economy. The government’s move to boost agriculture is a welcome step. Being an agriculture-driven state, Bihar will benefit from it if the state government takes concrete steps to implement the schemes,” Keshri said.
 
 BCCI president Agrawal said they were expecting announcement of special measures in the Budget to neutralise the effects of demonetisation, but the government did nothing to address the concerns raised by trade and industry bodies of the state. Agrawal, however, appreciated the government for putting emphasis on agriculture, health and infrastructure sectors.
 
 PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industries ( ) welcomed the government’s move to extend benefit of reduced corporate tax rate of 25% to companies which have reported turnover of up to Rs 250 crore in financial year 2016-17.
 
 However, common people did not find much relief from the Budget. City-based chartered accountant Subodh Goel said the middle class and salaried people were expecting relaxation in tax slab, which had not been announced. “Increase of education cess from 3% to 4% is a burden on common people. Sale of equity after one year was exempted from tax earlier, but now 10% tax will be charged on it,” he said.
 
 Executive director of centre for health policy,  , Basudeb Guha Khasnobis, welcomed the provision of insurance coverage of Rs 5 lakh per family per annum for indoor hospitalisation of the poor. He, however, said middle class people should also have been included in the scheme.
 
 
