MUMBAI: As   opened to paid previews on Wednesday, a day before its official release on Thursday, the audience came out in droves despite fears of violence. The evening went off without event in the island city and the suburbs due to robust police bandobast. 

  On Tuesday, Oshiwara police had made preventive arrests of two   workers who were reportedly plotting trouble near 24 Karat   in Jogeshwari.
 
 In neighbouring Thane, a mob of 50 people gathered at Korum Mall around 5.30pm on Wednesday to protest against the screening. Most were driven out with a warning while some were taken to the police station, after which the situation returned to normal.
 
 Many multiplexes at Fun Republic, Citi Mall and Infiniti have deployed staff for security and are confident that no one will cause trouble. Cops are stationed inside and outside the theatres. 
 
 “We have detained more than 150 people who we believe could create a law and order problem. The city will witness heavy police bandobast all over, particularly major railway stations, bus depots, theatres and multiplexes,” said Deven Bharti, joint commissioner of police (law and order), adding that the number of those detained could double by Wednesday night. 
 
 Controversy and curiosity in the runup to the release ensured that tickets for the long Republic Day weekend flew off off fast from advance booking counters of major multiplexes as well as single-screen halls.
 
 This was in contrast to violent protests reported from Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh, a day ahead of the release of the Rs 180 crore period drama. 
 
 Police bandobast throughout the city seemed elaborate and police officials had been asked to cancel their Republic Day leave till January 26. Police sources said that the Mumbai police cyber cell had already started blocking social media pages and sites with objectionable and provocative remarks against the  .
 
 Any person or organization indulging in damage of public property will not be spared and be made to pay for the damages, said cops.
 
 In Navi Mumbai, at the Raghuleela Mall and multiplex opposite Vashi railway station, a posse of police personnel was seen guarding the entry and exit points. The box office counters were shifted to the third floor from the ground level of the mall as a precautionary measure. “Some of the regular movie-goers were here, and we are sure that ticket sales will increase in the days to come,” said a multiplex employee.
 
 Among those who braved the tension and threats to step out and watch the film was Bharti from Dhobi Talao who watched the paid preview at Metro Cinema. “It’s stupid to oppose such an interesting movie that shows the valour of the Rajputs,” she said. 
 
 “Movies are movies. They should be watched for their aesthetic value and story rather than complicating them with history,” said Viji Sharma, a teacher, outside Infiniti Mall in Andheri.
 
 Most viewers who watched Padmaavat on Wednesday said there was nothing insulting to Rajputs.
 
 Encouraged by the response to the film a day ahead of the film’s formal release, Metro Cinema at Dhobi Talao added two more shows for Thursday. “Initially we had scheduled three shows in a day but now there will be five. All five shows for Thursday are sold out,” said a ticket seller.
 
 Theatre owners and the film’s distributor Viacom 18 Motion Pictures refused to comment on the scenario.
 
 
