It’s Valentine’s Day, and there’s always a lot of talk about single people being under undue pressure to find a date for the day, while committed couples need to go out and celebrate it publicly. All that is true to an extent, but the reality is that love and romance are very innate desires for most of us, bringing us either immense joy or unbearable sorrow, or both in equal measure. While the process of dating, courting and falling in love once took a lot of time, keeping up with today’s fast-paced world, even the time dedicated for love has shrunk, and a multitude of   are at the forefront of such a paradigm shift. Today, how do singles be Valentine’s Day-ready without having to spend a lot of time or effort? We’ll show you exactly how…

 
 
 Traditionally, it was weddings; later, it became pubs; today, it’s all about attracting people of the opposite sex (and same sex too) on social networking and dating apps. Creating a profile and tailoring it like there’s no tomorrow has become a favourite pastime for many. While such manicured online profiles can be both a boon and a bane in their own ways, you can’t deny how convenient they’ve become to meet like-minded people with an intention to date. Be it for serious relationships, casual ones or even one night stands, there’s something for everyone.  , a student of  , says, “Just like Facebook,   and Twitter, dating apps have become an intrinsic part of everyone’s virtual interactions. If you’re single, you meet potential dates, and if you’re committed, you use them to make friends. The dating pool has just become so much bigger because even the introverts and those who are anxious about initial interactions are able to ease into romance by being behind a phone screen.”
 
 
 Bumble, Clover, Coffee Meets Bagel, Happn, MeetMe, OkCupid, Plenty of Fish, Match, Zoosk, HER
 
 
 Tinder, Badoo, Scout, Hot or Not, Belndr, Grindr, Wild
 
 
 
 With meeting new people possible at the swipe of a profile, the biggest, and possibly the most crucial, stage for any couple is meeting up for the first time. First impressions last a long time, and are often a nostalgic talking point for many couples. While coffee shops, movie theatres and pubs often top the list of preferred places for potential couples to meet up for the first time, one option that never goes out of fashion is a good ol’ dinner date. The only difference being there’s no hassle of going back and forth about food preferences, diner choices and who pays the bill. Dinner dating apps these days sort out every icky preference even before you meet in such a manner, that meeting your date over a romantic dinner and getting to know them better is all that’s needed to do.
 
 
 Dine, OverDinnr, Take Me Out, Grouper, HiDine
 
 
 
 A big part of any relationship is showing how much you are affectionate about your partner. Each person has their way of showing love, through intentions, words or actions, but one thing that never fails is the act of pampering your loved one with a thoughtful gift. And technology has made it easy like never before. Sahana Ramesh, an HR professional in the city, says, “I remember the days when e-cards were first launched and how big of a rage they became, eventually bringing down the popularity of physical gift cards. Today, many apps provide the same, but with such intricate levels of personalization, that it has a good mix of technology and a personal touch. On top of that, various online stores make your job easy to pick the right gift for your date, and even get it delivered the same day. Nothing can beat that!”
 
 
 WooHoo, AskMyGift, tinysurprise, BloomThat, Gyft, Soothe, Sesame
 
 
 
 At the end of it all, if you’re still one of the unlucky one who haven’t had much luck in real life but still pine for someone like-minded to shower your affection on, there is a way — not a great option, but an option nonetheless — virtual dates. Many apps simulate a real-life boyfriend/girlfriend experience, and some so realistic that a Japanese man once got married to his virtual girlfriend. The line between romantic and creepy when being in love with such virtual avatars is very thin, but as we’ve been told many times, love knows no language, even if it’s 1s and 0s.
 
 
 Invisible Boyfriend, My Virtual Girlfriend Julie, Dream Girlfriend, My Virtual Boyfriend, Shoujo City, Pocket Girl
 
