PATNA: A day after being appointed as Munger University’s founder vice-chancellor (VC), Ranjit Kumar Verma said on Tuesday he would leave no stone unturned to ensure its all-round growth during his three-year tenure.

 Talking to TOI over phone from Imphal where he is attending the annual session of the Indian Science Congress Association, Verma said he would initiate necessary steps for creating a sound infrastructure so that postgraduate teaching and research could be undertaken at Munger University.
 
 “All the officers of the university, including financial adviser, registrar, examination controller, finance officer and development officer, will be appointed well before the commencement of the academic session,” said Verma, who has earlier served as the pro-VC of Patna University for three years.
 
 The new Munger University VC has several firsts to his credit — from being the first Bihari e-text book author (published by CSIR, Govt of India) to being the first Indian to become the general secretary of the UN-ICSU affiliate ICTAC.
 
 “All the institutions of higher education are facing acute dearth of teachers. I will expedite appointment of assistant professors against all sanctioned vacant posts in different colleges to be brought under the new university’s jurisdiction,” Verma said.
 
 As per the decision of the state government, all the 21 colleges located in six districts of Munger division will be transferred to Munger University. While 17 of these colleges are presently functioning under Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University, the remaining four are under the jurisdiction of Lalit Narayan Mithila University.
 
 Only two colleges — R D & D J College, Munger and B N M College, Brahiya — have so far been accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). “I will ensure that all the colleges get good grades so that they are able to take advantage of development grants from the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan,” said Verma.
 
 He, however, pointed out that the VC alone can’t do everything. “I believe in team work and collective leadership and seek the cooperation of teachers, employees, students and guardians in creating a healthy academic environment. All the genuine grievances of teachers and non-teaching staff will be redressed at the earliest,” the VC told this newspaper. 
 
 He also promised to expedite complete automation of office working and implement cashless transactions on the campus. Admission and examination works would go online, he said.
 
 
