SALEM: Two days after deputy chief minister   slammed the Centre for not heeding to the requests of the government and making ad hoc allocation of funds to the state in the form of special compensation, CM   showered lavish praise on the BJP government on Sunday.

 Displaying bonhomie with BJP leaders Pon Radhakrishnan, Tamilisai Sounderarajan and L Ganesan at the inauguration of the first flight service between Salem and Chennai in Salem, EPS thanked PM Modi and union civil aviation minister for the flight service.
 
 
 “The PM has fulfilled the demands we made for the welfare of the state,” EPS said.
 
 
 “Only if state and centre have a cordial relationship, we will benefit. But opposition parties here do not like the warm relationship we share with the Centre,’’ the CM said.
 
 OPS told the   that Tamil Nadu has been denied its due share under central tax devolution by the finance commission that reduced the earlier share of Tamil Nadu by 19%.
 
 Over the past few days, AIADMK MPs too have been stalling the proceedings in the parliament demanding constitution of  . EPS himself said that AIADMK was neither part of BJP nor an ally, seeking to counter growing charges that AIADMK was gravitating towards BJP. But on a day when DMK working president M K Stalin as well as AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran levelled another round of accusations at AIADMK that the party was ignoring state interest to please BJP, EPS has given fresh ammunition to political rivals. EPS said the PM has promised to provide lakhs of houses to be built under the housing for all scheme in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Now, the Centre has sanctioned Rs 10,000 crore for the first ‘green corridor’ between Chennai and Salem via Tiruvannamalai, EPS said, adding that the Union minister   immediately sanctioned a bypass road to reduce traffic congestion in Salem the moment he approached him.
 
 Minister of civil aviation secretary R N Choubey said steps would be taken to operate flights from Hosur airport under UDAN scheme within three months. Similarly, Thanjavur, Neyveli and Vellore airports will be included under UDAN scheme and flights will be operated from these airports within six months.
 
 Union Minister Pon Radhakrishnan said the Prime Minister had sanctioned Rs 1.5 lakh crore to Tamil Nadu for road transport development.
 
