By : 
 

 SALIGAO: The Saulem lake in  , a well-known tourist hotspot, has now become a natural habitat for river  , also known as smooth-coated otters, too.
 
 Initially, the lake used to attract a number of migratory birds and white cranes, but the sightings of smooth-coated otters has become another added attraction at the popular water body.
 
 Saulem lake’s renown has grown over the years, as it has become a nesting ground for migratory birds and white cranes, which attracts tourists and locals, many of whom wait eagerly to catch a glimpse of these birds. Much to everyone’s surprise, the river otters have made their presence at the lake over the last three months.
 
 Local resident and amateur photographer, Sylvester D’Souza, said that sightings of river otters was a recent phenomenon.
 
 “These river otters have been coming there quite regularly. I have observed two of them coming up the river over the last three months probably to eat some fish in the lake,” D’Souza said.
 
 “I have been visiting this lake since the last two years, clicking photographs of the birds. But this is the first time that I have seen these otters at the lake,” he added.
 
 Marine conservationist  , told TOI, “The river otters use a wide range of habitats ranging from fresh water bodies to khazan areas and bigger rivers. This lake is also a natural habitat. These otters eat frogs, fish and sometimes, even birds.
 
 “This lake recharges the eco-wealth in the area, but some people from the locality have been dumping all their garbage into the water body,” he said.
 
 Lobo further said that Saulem lake plays an important role in the village as it is the sole water body. 
 
 “This lake not only attracts migratory birds, but also otters, mongooses, white eels and other species of birds. It is truly a birders’ attraction,” he said.
 
 Besides the marine species in the lake, the water body also helps in recharging the wells in the village, the conservationist said. 
 
 “Aquatic life and the Saulem lake is very important for recharged ground water. Sightings of river otters, birds and other marine life indicates that the lake is healthy,” Lobo said.
 
 “The otters need a very good and healthy supply of their prey including fish, birds and other aquatic life, if they are to survive. Dumping of garbage in the lake and also the menace of stray dogs near the lake is going to become a big problem for the survival of the otters if these problems are not tackled at the earliest,” he added.
 
 
