HYDERABAD: Prince Fazal Jah, the last surviving son of Nizam VII, Mir  , was the most affable, simple, friendly and generous among the members of the erstwhile royal family of Hyderabad. The death of   brings to an end the royal legacy associated with the Asafia rulers as he was the last surviving son of the last ruler of princely state of Hyderabad. Only one daughter of the Nizam survives now.

 Fazal Jah (72), who passed away after a brief illness at a corporate hospital on Sunday morning, was laid to rest at the historic   in  , where his father Osman Ali Khan, the architect of modern Hyderabad, too was buried 51years ago.
 
  
  
 
 
 Unlike many others among the Nizam's descendants, Fazal Jah was associated with several social service and philanthropist activities. A true son of the soil, he spent all his life in Hyderabad working for the cause of the poor. He did not settle down in a foreign country or choose to enter politics unlike scions of many former rulers of various princely states. He was often seen at public functions commemorating the Nizam.
 
 Fazal Jah was also the most accessible among the various ‘princes' of Hyderabad and would meet everyone, who visited his office at Masjid-e-Judi. He spent money from his pocket for the upkeep of the historic mosque, where the Nizam’s mother   was also laid to rest.
 
 The fact that Fazal Jah, who also looked after the affairs of the Nizam’s Trust, was accessible to all was evident from the large turnout at his funeral. Even Prince Muffakham Jah and Prince Shahmat Jah, who normally avoid public attention, attended the funeral to pay their tributes. Representatives of the Paigah family also turned up to pay their last respects.
 
 Historian Dr  , who is close to the royal family, described Fazal Jah as a “simple and loving personality”.
 
 Fazal Jah was in charge of various religious trusts created by Osman Ali Khan including Hyderabad Rubat in Saudi Arabia.
 
 The Nizam’s grandson Nawab Najaf Ali Khan described Fazal Jah as a thorough gentleman with a loving personality due to which he was respected by all the members of the family and even outsiders. He spent most of his time and money for taking care of Masjid-e-Judi, he said.
 
 Fazal Jah was born on February 28, 1946 to the Nizam through Laila Begum. She was the favourite wife of the Nizam.
 
