It’s the time of the year when an   can entertain himself watching TV channels and scanning newspapers or websites. You can entertain yourself in one of two ways. You can look at the things that happened in the past year, which is useless. Or, you can get to know what will happen during the coming year, which is entirely inaccurate.

 Why am I so sceptical about this business of predicting the future? After all, there’s a huge industry dedicated to doing just that. Sometimes, often actually, they claim success and may even be right. You could read a prediction today that says the next quarter’s   of a company would be 10.25 and it might actually turn out that way. The same could happen with someone’s predictions of macroeconomic numbers. So how can one say that predicting the coming year is a fruitless exercise? The answer is quite simple. How do these predictions help you as an investor?
 
 The answer to this question becomes clear when we look back into the past and see what was predictable and what was not and which has actually had a real, lasting impact on wealth generation through investments. In the late eighties, could you have forecast the astonishing rise of Indian software services? Was the rise in urban Indian   predicted by anyone? In 1995, was the coming drop in interest rates and the easy-money economy predictable? Was the resultant housing boom predictable? Was the near collapse of the global financial system in 2008 foreseen two years before that? In 2009, when the equity markets hailed the return of   as India’s Prime Minister with a stronger mandate, was the sorry mess of the next five years predictable? Looking back, it’s pretty clear that over a long range, the kind of events that really make a difference are not predictable.
 
 So if none of these 12-month predictions are of any use, I’m going to buck the trend. Instead of telling you what you should do as an investor in 2018, I’m going to ask you look far ahead and plan for 2028. So here it is, a brief overview of what savers and investors should do in 2028.
 
 Investors should map their future financial needs along a time-scale. This is not difficult as major expenses tend to be predictable. All money that is likely to be needed between 2028 and 2030 or so should be kept in fixed income investments. These could be government small-savings schemes or debt mutual funds. All investments intended for a longer period should be invested in four or five diversified equity funds and balanced funds, through SIPs. This strategy is simple and effective.
 
 Apart from these investments, you should be prepared for emergencies. All earning members of a family should have a term insurance equivalent to around 10 years’ income. If you buy a pure term insurance, this is easily affordable. You should also have health insurance, as well as about six-nine months’ worth of expenses in your savings account as emergency money.
 
 This is what you need to do as far as your savings and investments go in 2028. Or 2018, or 2022, or anything, actually. And that’s the whole point. Regardless of what the formulaic year-gone/year-ahead coverage in the media says, if you have a personal savings strategy that needs year-toyear adjustment, then there’s something wrong.
 
 
 
 
