Indian television has given us some iconic mother-children relationships. Depending on the plots and scripts, they range from dramatic to estranged to endearing, sometimes all in the same show. But the kind of relationship that   actors share with their real-life mothers is uniform all through – they acknowledge the contribution of these women who’ve been their pillars of strength all their lives. So, on Mother’s Day, we decided to move on from the clichéd reel mothers, letting the real-life moms take over, as their star sons and daughters tell us how they are making the day special for them. 

 
 
 Mothers should be celebrated every day. Had it not been for our mothers, we would have never been here. There were times when my mom rebuked or taught me things the hard way, but all my memories with her are special. Now, when I look back, I miss those days. Everything that I am today, I owe it to her. The only thing I wish for is her great health. Although this Mother’s Day she is very busy preparing for my wedding. I will still try to make it special for her.
 
  
    with his mom Neera
 
 
 
 Like every year, I will be wishing her at midnight, and also send flowers and surprise her with a gift. I wish to pamper her all day long with her favourite cuisine followed by a spa, movie and, of course, we will do some shopping after that.
 
  
  Kusum with her daughter Shraddha Arya
 
 
 
 My mom does so much for me, I wish I could do something special for her every day. I am like a little kid, she still packs lunch for me every morning. She wakes up before me so that everything is ready and packed. So, nothing can be enough that I can do for her, but yes, I will take the day off from work and will take this Mother’s Day as an opportunity to take her to her favourite restaurant.
 
 
  
  Karan Vohra with his mom Renu
 
 
 Mothers are special and so is mine. I will surprise my mom with flowers in the morning and will be taking her out for dinner after shooting. I have a few more surprises planned after the dinner too.
 
 
  
  Iqbal Khan with his mom Mehmooda
 
 
 
 I am absolutely crazy about my mom. She has the most beautiful heart and I really think that all that I am today is only because of her prayers and blessings. She stays in Kashmir and I really wish she could be here. But I will still try my best to make it special for her. I have asked a dear friend to take a cake and flowers home with a personal note for mom. Her blessings are most important and I need to thank her for the belief she had in me and my decisions. 
 
  
  Nakuul Mehta with his mom Shail
 
 
 
 Although it’s a working day for me, I do hope to get some time to grab a meal with the captain of our ship. Also, it will be a welcome change for someone who always is responsible for everyone’s dietary needs. Not sure if any gift can make her feel as important as spending time does.
 
  
  Meena with son   
 
 
 
 I remember one day in school I had a fight with some boys and all our parents were called by the principal. I was so scared of my father that I told my mother about the situation and requested her not to tell dad about it. She lied to my dad, came to school, sorted the matter and made me promise that I’d never do this again. Till date, my dad doesn’t know about it. I will go to any extent to make life easier for her. Every year I spend Mother’s Day with my mom. This time I have decided to take some time off my shoot and spend time with my mother-in-law as well, who is just like my mother. Addite (Mohit’s wife) and I have planned a special trip to Shirdi with her. I really hope she likes it.
 
 --Unnati.Joshi@timesgroup.com
 
