MOTIHARI: Prime Minister   on Tuesday firmly scotched speculation that recent communal violence has caused a rift in the BJP-JD(U) alliance, heaping fulsome praise on ally Bihar chief minister   for being a "patient and able" administrator fighting anti-social elements and corruption. 

 The PM's endorsement of the CM came after Kumar said in his speech that there could be no development with tension and conflict while stressing the need to respect all religions and communities. Seen in the context of communal violence during Ram Navami and unhappiness of a section of BJP with the state police, Modi's plaudits will be seen as a setback for hardliners.
 
  Modi attacked the opposition for pitting "people against people" and lauded Kumar's efforts. "The manner in which he is fighting Bihar's corrupt and anti-social elements is not easy," he said. 
 
 His cleanliness drive against corruption, and for social change, his efforts have the full support of the Centre," he said.
 
 The PM's comments, in the presence of central ministers Ashwini Choubey and Giriraj Singh, who have attracted controversy over polarising statements, can be read as a signal to volatile elements in BJP that the alliance with JD(U) remains intact and they will have to live with it. He said Kumar, along with BJP leader and deputy CM Sushil Modi, had worked to bring about a significant improvement in governance.
 
 "To make a new India we have to get rid of ills... we have to free India from communal tensions and communalism," the PM said.
 
 Speaking earlier at the function to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi's Champaran campaign and promote Swachh Bharat, Kumar said, "We should take a pledge for swachhta along with that for peace and harmony. We should respect each other... irrespective of religion and community. The country can progress only with love and amity, not in the midst of tension and conflict."
 
 Modi hit out at the opposition for trying to divide society and place hurdles "from Parliament to the streets" in the path of development and efforts to uplift and empower the poor. He said development had quickened as "there are no more practices like blocking, delaying and misleading (atkana, latkana, bhatkana). We are working to empower the poor... That's what is worrying the opposition".
 
 "While the government is working towards uniting people and their hearts, some opponents are working towards breaking up society. They feel that if the poor are empowered, it would no longer be possible to mislead them with lies," the PM said. The reference to efforts to divide society were read in the light of opposition accusations that BJP was party to the Supreme Court order rescinding automatic arrest for offences under the SC/ST Act.
 
 The PM also launched a number of projects worth more than Rs 6,600 crore, besides a special train to mark the Champaran Satyagrah. He also lauded the efforts put in by the Bihar administration to build more than 8.5 lakh toilets in the past one week.
 
