AHMEDABAD: Shweta Gamara, 14, the daughter of a head constable with city police’s traffic branch, died in Chandkheda police lines on February 13, when part of a slab fell on her and her father. She was on her way to school when the incident took place, at about 8am. Raymal Gamara, the head constable, also suffered severe head injuries.

 The incident exposed the condition of police dwellings in the city, as a number of police lines, established over 50 years ago, have not seen repairs in all these years. While some have been declared unfit, a few are still used due to lack of other options.
 
 According to senior city police officials, there are 10,500 officers and personnel serving with Ahmedabad City Police. Housing is currently available for about 3,500 families and 1,500 units have been declared unfit. The issue will be aggravated soon, when 2,600 more personnel join city police, on completion of their training.
 
 A high-level meeting was convened in Gandhinagar on Thursday, with representatives of the state home department, finance department, state police and   (GPHC). It was pointed out that while on one hand there is shortage of funds for  , a part of the budget was unspent as funds are allocated on a project basis. Officials resolved to divert the remaining funds for special repairs.
 
 A K Singh, city police commissioner, said police housing will be taken up on priority basis. “While a few new colonies at places such as   are being constructed, quarters at both the headquarters are at the moment provided to trainees. For   jawans, we have built up barracks. Soon, housing arrangements will be shuffled around and families from the dilapidated buildings will be shifted to other places. We are also mulling renting buildings for staff,” he said.
 
 Vipul Aggarwal, additional CP (administration), said that a survey is being conducted to ascertain requirements. “It will be the only way to find actual demand and decide future projections. Not all personnel require quarters, they are getting HRA and some have residences in the city. We have asked DCPs to look at projections also while submitting the estimates.
 
 
