LUDHIANA: After keeping ticket aspirants anxious almost throughout the day on Wednesday, the   ( ) issued its first list of 32 candidates. Out of these, 15 are female candidates, and six are SC candidates. The leaders claimed that the rest of the list would be issued shortly. However, sources revealed that leaders have held back names of candidates in wards where there is tough competition among ticket aspirants.

 The party has held back names of 15 candidates in which ex-councillors Parminder Mehta, Sumit Malhotra, and Radhey Shyam are included. In these wards, there are three to five ticket aspirants in one ward, so the party needs time to take a decision. Moreover, the party would require time to settle down those who do not get a ticket. Senior leaders said the rest of the candidates would be announced shortly, and if announcements of those candidates has been held back for the moment, then there must be a certain reason. However, one of the ticket aspirants said they had been assured of tickets by party leaders, and they had faith in the party. So, they would wait until further announcement.
 
 A day-long discussion took place in Chandigarh regarding issuance of the list, which kept ticket aspirants on their toes. The party’s state election committee conducted the meeting under the chairmanship of Punjab president Vijay Sampla. Releasing the first list of 32 candidates on behalf of Sampla, state secretary Vineet Joshi said there were 15 female and six SC candidates in the first list, while the second list would be released shortly.
 
 The BJP has given a chance to fresh faces in most of the seats, because 50% female candidates have been given a ticket. Therefore, either the wives or mothers of ex-councillors have been given a chance. 
 
 GIVE AND TAKE
 
 Sources in SAD revealed that the party gave three of its candidates to BJP to be fielded in three wards, where the latter did not have a strong candidate. Akali Dal gave the names of Yashpal Chaudhary for Ward No.8,   for Ward No.66, and Rakesh Bhanot for Ward No.75. Out of these, the first two candidates have already been announced. 
 
 
 
 Ward No.8: Yashpal Chaudhary 
 
 Ward No.10: Gurbaksh Singh Billa 
 
 Ward No.11: Meenu Jain 
 
 Ward No.15: Pooja Rai 
 
 Ward No.16: Sakshi Zulka 
 
 Ward No.20: Munish Bedi 
 
 Ward No.24: Amit Sharma 
 
 Ward No.43: Swaranjit Kaur 
 
 Ward No.51: Ramandip Kaur Kaka 
 
 Ward No.52: Gurpreet Shinder Raju 
 
 Ward No.56: Devinder Jaggi 
 
 Ward No.57: Manju Aggarwal 
 
 Ward No.58: Rajiv Kalra 
 
 Ward No.59: Prabhjot Kaur 
 
 Ward No.61: Shikha Jain 
 
 Ward No.62:   Ratra 
 
 Ward No.64:   
 
 Ward No.65: Renu Bansal 
 
 Ward No.66: Bhupinder Singh 
 
 Ward No.69: Ranjana Panchi 
 
 Ward No.76: Kushgar Kashyap 
 
 Ward No.82: Sanjay Gosain 
 
 Ward No.83: Pammi Verma 
 
 Ward No.84: Surinder Atwal 
 
 Ward No.85: Sunita Rani 
 
 Ward No.87: Rani 
 
 Ward No.89: Prem Sharma 
 
 Ward No.90: Avtar Kishan Tari 
 
 Ward No.91: Rupamdeep Kaur 
 
 Ward No.92: Jatinder Kumar Katna 
 
 Ward No.94:   Kapur 
 
 Ward No.95:   
 
 
