It was an emotional reunion for the Dalai Lama and  , an 80-yearold, who was a strapping soldier when they first met in 1959. After his daring escape from Tibet following the Chinese invasion, Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama (then 22) was escorted safely to Indian soil by Naren Chandra Das, who was 23 years old then. They were accompanied by six soldiers of   Rifles at Tawang on March 31, 1959.

 In the last 60 years, they met only once at Guwahati last April. The Dalai Lama thanked India for providing shelter to him and his countrymen and invited Das to Mcleodganj. Despite poor health, Das accepted the invitation and was given VVIP treatment during the function.
 
 The entire cabinet of the Tibetan government-in-exile arrived for the function in which Dalai Lama was accompanied by Tibetan Prime Minister Lobsang Sangay. At the Tsuglakhang (main temple), the venue for the function, the first thing the Dalai Lama did was to head towards Naren Chandra Das and embrace him warmly.
 
 When Dalai Lama honoured the guests, Das was the only person to get another warm hug from the Tibetan spiritual leader. When people came to know about Das’s role in ensuring the Dalai Lama’s safety 60 years back, they could not resist taking selfies with him.
 
 The Dalai Lama entered India from Chuthangmo in Arunachal Pradesh on March 31, 1959. Das, a resident of Sonitpur district of Assam, was among a group of seven Indian soldiers from 5 Assam rifles, who escorted Dalai Lama to safety. He is now the lone survivor of that group of soldiers.
 
 “We are happy to see this man. He received Dalai Lama on Indian soil, due to which we feel an emotional connection with him,” said a visitor, Tenzin Saldon.
 
 Reciprocating the love, Das said he is too fragile to travel long distances now but came to meet the Dalai Lama because of the shared past.
 
 “I am not well and unable to travel. I took the risk of travel only for Dalai Lama,” he said. Recalling the day he met the Tibetan spiritual leader for the first time, Das said Dalai Lama was on horseback with around 20 of his bodyguards when he entered India.
 
 In 1959, he said, they were stationed at Lumla post when they were entrusted with the safety of Dalai Lama. The Dalai Lama stayed in Lumla on entering India, he said.
 
 Recalling their last meeting in Guwahati, Das said, “I am very happy and proud of the stature he has attained as a global spiritual leader in the last 60 years.”
 
