Vijayawada: The death of a manual scavenger in an underground drainage line at Vambay Colony on Tuesday has once again put a question mark over the role contractors appointed by Vijayawada Municipal Corporation.

 The civic body, which had earlier faced severe criticism over manhole deaths in the city, is again facing flak after an outsourced worker, Gunja Gangaraju, died on the job on Tuesday.
 
 Trade unions and opposition parties in the Vijayawada Municipal Council alleged that the VMC was not following the Supreme Court guidelines and the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Rules (PEMSR) 2013.
 
 “VMC is responsible for the death of Gangaraju. Civic body officials don’t respect Supreme Court directives. The civic body which is simply blaming the contractor for the death of sanitary workers should answer the people whether safety measures are being followed by contractors,” said Communist Party of India (CPI) city secretary Donepudi Shankar.
 
 “Following the death of two scavengers at Bhavanipuram in 2017, VMC had announced that it will take stringent action against contractors who engage manual scavengers, but the words of VMC remained only on papers. Majority of contractors dealing with drains in the city are employing manual scavengers and they are not at all concerned about the safety of scavengers these workers,” said David, a representative of Municipal Workers Union.
 
 Asula Ranganayakulu, a representative of All India Trade Unions Council (AITUC), said engineering wing of the VMC is acting blindly when awarding tenders to the contract agencies.
 
 Majority of the agencies employed by VMC don’t have basic machinery to clean clogged, overflowing drains and they are simply engaging manual scavengers at higher wages which is resulting in deaths, he added.
 
 Officials of the VMC said they are strictly following guidelines of PEMSR ACT- 2013. “VMC is no way responsible for the death of manual scavenger. We have engaged a contractor to clear and maintain the drains properly.,” said chief engineer of VMC P Adiseshu.
 
 
