AHMEDABAD: A third year   (BCA) student from Bhavnagar was arrested by   police on Tuesday for fraud of Rs 60,000. Investigators believe that the accused is involved in at least two more cases with similar modus operandi where he offered high-end phones at cheaper price online and did not deliver the phone after receiving the money.

 According to Naranpura police, Karan Patel, 23, a resident of Naranpura, is a B.Com student at HL College of Commerce and is part of   squad for tournaments such as Ranji Trophy.
 
 Patel mentioned in his complaint that he had came across an advertisement for a just-launched branded high-end phone, priced at about Rs 1lakh, offered at Rs 60,000 on October 30. Patel contacted the person on the number provided when the person identified himself as Kriya Oberoi and shared more details about the phone along with his bank account details. He asked Patel to pay advance for the home delivery.
 
 “Patel sought help of his elder brother and transferred the entire amount. The caller informed him that he would receive the phone within three days. When the phone did not arrive on his address, Patel got suspicious and tried to get in touch with Oberoi but he had blocked Patel on phone and social media. Patel then investigated on the basis of the social media account and revealed the person’s real identity as  , a resident of Bhavnagar,” said a Naranpura police official.
 
 JR Patel, inspector of Naranpura police station, said that at the moment, Shaikh has mentioned two other offences. “He did it for money and started posting different numbers on social media platforms with lucrative mobile phone offers since February last year and gained confidence after the persons paid the amount. Further probe is on,” he said.
 
 
 
 JR Patel, inspector of Naranpura police station, said that a vehicle theft was detected within a day. A man was nabbed from Chikhli in Navsari with the stolen mini truck. Naranpura police officials said that the truck was reported stolen on January 1 after which a complaint was filed and probe was initiated. “It was found that the truck had its GPS on. A team started trailing the vehicle and intercepted it near Chikhli. The man was identified as Gangaram Bishnoi, a native of Rajasthan. Further probe is on,” said an official.
 
 
