NEW DELHI: The Asian stock market opened with a mixed response in the early morning trade. As noted that equities in Japan changed a bit, market in South Korea edged higher. During the weekend, US markets closed a bit higher. 

 
 
 While the election results are set to be declared today, state-run oil marketing companies on May 14, 2018 increased diesel and petrol prices by 21 paise and 17 paise per litre, respectively, which was after retail automobile fuel prices remained unchanged since 24 April, reports Mint.
 
 
 
 Contrary to the analysts’ expectations, Hindustan Unilever Ltd post a 14.2 percent rise in the fourth March quarter net profit. Sales at Rs 9,003 crore were increased 2.5 percent from Rs 8,773 crore a year ago.
 
 
 
 
 PNB is all set to report a massive fourth quarter loss today as the bank counts the costs of a 2 billion dollar fraud, tighter bad loan norms and higher bond yields. The bank will announce its March quarter earnings today.
 
 
 
 TPG-backed Manipal Hospitals handed over a revised bid for Fortis Healthcare Ltd. TPG-Manipal’s proposal to use Rs 2,100 crore is now come down to Rs 180 per share compared to previous proposal of investing at Rs 160, Fortis told exchanges.
 
 In another report Delhi high court ordered the selling off of unencumbered listed shares owned by former Ranbaxy promoter Malvinder Singh and others, related to the recovery of arbitration award favouring Japanese company, Daiichi Sankyo Co. Ltd.
 
 
 
 Government-owned Allahabad Bank said the RBI has asked it to freeze lending after the bank’s capital-to-risk weighted assets ratio fell below the needed level.
 On the other hand, government initiated the process of removing top bankers, including the managing director of Allahabad Bank and two executive directors of PNB, charged with fraudulent cases, involving jewellers Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi.
 
 
 
 Lupin Ltd, Reliance Communications Ltd, PI Industries Ltd and Britannia Industries Ltd are some of the other companies that will release their earnings for the March quarter today.
 
