It was her portrayal of Sakshi Dhoni in Sushant Singh Rajput’s MS Dhoni: The Untold Story that landed   the chance to debut in   as Mahesh Babu’s heroine. “The makers liked my performance in Dhoni biopic and reached out to me. I’m a big fan of Mahesh, and know what a big star he is here. In fact, my exposure to South cinema was through his films mostly. 
In my heart, I always dreamt of making my debut in South cinema opposite a superstar in a film with a good script anchored by a big director. So, it’s a dream launch for me in Tollywood,” reveals Kiara, adding, “I was in Hyderabad for the audio launch of the film, it was so overwhelming to see firsthand the fan following Mahesh enjoys. I’m excited, yet have butterflies in my stomach.”
  plays a chief minister in the political drama directed by  . “It’s a topical film and has an inherent message that will force the viewers to think. At the same time, it has all the ingredients of a Mahesh Babu film and will appeal to all sections of the audience, both young and old alike,” says Kiara.
 Brushing off speculation that she plays Mahesh Babu’s PA in the film, Kiara says, “All I can confirm now is that I’m not playing his PA, but a girl-next-door who’s from Hyderabad. She’s very innocent and affable, a lot of girls will connect with my character. How she gets involved in Mahesh Babu’s political journey is something you will have to watch the film to find out.”
 Kiara is all praise for her co-star. “Mahesh is a natural actor who’s fun to work with. Ever ready for a retake, Mahesh’s energy levels and desire for perfection are awe-inspiring. As a person, he’s very warm and chilled out. He has no airs whatsoever and made the effort to break the ice and make me comfortable. I’m somebody who likes to do my homework before I go to shoot, but on the sets he helped me with my lines and diction.” 
 Kiara feels quite at home in Hyderabad. “People are so welcoming and warm here. I have also signed my next with Ram Charan for which I’ll start shooting this month. So this place is going to be my second home,” she says 
 signing off. 
 
 
