KOCHI: The students residing in rural area who are exposed to smoke along with a family history of bronchial asthma are at greater risk of getting the chronic inflammatory disease compared with those staying in urban area, shows a study conducted by   among the higher secondary school students in   district. 

 A total of 629 students participated in this study and the prevalence of bronchial asthma was estimated to be 9.9%. Besides family history, one of the main causes for asthma as per the study is active and passive smoking. Almost 15.3 % of those who had asthma reported that their friends used to smoke in their presence, when compared to 8.6% of those who reported not being exposed to friend's smoke. In the study, 18.6% who had asthma reported a family history of asthma, as per the study published in the Journal of Family Medicine and Primary Care. 
 
 "One of the main cause of chronic respiratory disease is active and passive smoking, besides family history. This shows that despite the tobacco control programs in place, school students in Ernakulam reportedly smoke," one of the author of the study PS  , department of community medicine, AIMS.
 
 The study shows that while 5.4% of those having bronchial asthma were told by a doctor that they had asthma, 4.1% were currently receiving treatment for asthma. Majority of those studied (56.1%) were males, with 54.8% residing at a rural location and 93.9% living in pucca houses. Incidentally, of those residing in rural area (12.2%) had asthma while it was 7.1% for those belonging to urban areas. 
 
 In India, there are currently more than 15 million people living with asthma.   government that has implemented a pilot project of the   (WHO) recommended practical approach to lung health strategy, with an intention to further strengthen the health system and to improve the quality of diagnosis, treatment and management of common chronic respiratory illnesses in primary healthcare settings. 
 
 The state government has a plan to scale up public health programmes for chronic respiratory disease management. As per the plan, they have started a programme to address the problem of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, a major cause of morbidity and mortality in India, affecting nearly 9% of the population above 35 years .
 
 
