MUMBAI: A daily wage   from  ,   (33), said he felt like he was reborn as he prepared to board an ambulance from JJ Hospital premises on Monday to leave for his hometown Vinchur. About 18 days ago, he had come to JJ Hospital in Byculla, traversing a distance of 200km from Nashik, with a 4ft   that had perorated his groin, abdomen, liver and lungs before emerging behind the collar bone.

 Doctors at JJ Hospital, who managed to remove the rod saving all the major organs from any long-term injury, said the worst was over for the father of two. But for now Shaikh has to live with a stoma bag. “The rod had injured his colon. So, we had to create a diversion in the small intestine so that the waste from the body deposits in a bag (stoma bag), allowing the injury to heal well. He may need another minor procedure for stoma closure in another six to eight weeks,” said Dr AH Bhandarwar, head of   at JJ Hospital. The doctors are positive that Sheikh can return to his normal life in three to four months.
 
 As much as Sheikh was elated about returning home to his wife and two children, aged six and eight, he said the family is unsure how they would sustain without him going to work. A daily wage labourer, he used to earn Rs 6,000-7,000 on a busy month. “That was barely enough to pay rent, send my children to school and ensure all meals for us. Now that I will be sitting at home, I am dreading how we all are going to survive,” he said.
 
 On Monday, one of his friends from Nashik paid Rs 2,000 to a private ambulance provider to drive Sheikh home. The family said while the complex surgery was done for free at JJ, they had to buy emergency medicines worth Rs 50,000. “We had to raise money from friends and relatives. Even JJ doctors have helped us with money,” said Shaikh’s brother Bhaiya. He added that the family had visitors and assurances of support from several Mumbaikars after TOI carried a report in the March 14 edition. JJ Hospital dean Dr SD Nanandkar said the hospital would try and reimburse his medicine cost from the CM’s Relief Fund. 
 
 
