NAGPUR: There are no takers for the   ticket for Vidarbha’s two MLC seats from local bodies constituencies for which elections schedule has been announced and barely five days left for the May 3 deadline to file nomination papers. Of the six MLC seats for which polling is to be held on May 21, two — Amravati and Chandrapur-Gadchiroli, Wardha — are in  .

 Both the seats are currently held by the BJP. The party has already decided candidature of Praveen Pote of Amravati, who is also minister of state in Devendra Fadnavis government. 
 
 Mitesh Bhangadia, the retiring MLC from the   local bodies seat, has not shown interest in contesting again. The irrigation contractor has been part of the controversies surrounding Gosikhurd project.
 
 The BJP is engaged in hectic parleys and held meeting on Saturday with Fadnavis who was in town on Saturday. On Friday, deliberations were held with Sudhir Mungantiwar who is guardian minister of Chandrapur.
 
 At least a dozen have thrown their hats in the ring for the BJP ticket. The party is in power and enjoys good numbers and is sure of win while the Congress or any other party has bleak chances, as these elections are known to witness high spending. More than party loyalty or ideology, money power works, especially when independents and those from minor parties are wooed for the vote.
 
 Of the 1,070 voters for the seat, 200 are independents, it is learnt. But the BJP claims is has numbers in its favours. The Congress is short of resources and also factional fight between Vijay Wadettiwar and Naresh Pugalia groups in Chandrapur could mean internal trouble for candidate of either faction.
 
 Wadettiwar, who is in-charge for the election, told ToI that at least four candidates were ready and the name would be finalized at a meeting in Delhi on Sunday. “In Congress, decisions and action go to the wire . So, candidates wait till last minute to come forward,” he explained while admitting that he was yet to receive any applications from aspirants.
 
 Meanwhile, for the Bhandara-Gondia Lok Sabha seat for which bypoll will be held on May 28, the NCP looks set to field its candidate with the full support of the Congress. The BJP is waiting for the Congress-NCP announcement of candidate before making its own choice. Those in the race for BJP ticket are Khushal Bopche, Shishupal Patle, Hemant Patle and Dada Tichkule. From the NCP, Vijay Shivankar and S Funde are in the forefront.
 
 
