KOLKATA: A Trinamool leader from   in North 24 Parganas was killed and a   leader shot at in   on Wednesday in the run-up to the rural polls in which at least one person died and many, including policemen, were injured during the last week. Complaints of threats, intimidation and attacks poured in with unfailing regularity even as the state election commission is set to enter the third phase: withdrawal of nominations from Thursday. 

 Trinamool local unit head from Sashan, Sofiar Rehman, 54, was stabbed to death by an arch-rival, Rajab Ali, while Rehman was leading a victory rally after winning all 17 gram panchayat seats uncontested in the Falti-Beliaghata area under Barasat II. The assailant was severely assaulted before being rescued by police. Ali sneaked into the victory procession while it reached the Beliaghata bridge on   and stabbed Rehman on his chest at least five times. Participants in the rally were taken aback and attacked Ali after realising what happened. 
 
  
  
 
 Food minister Jyotipriyo Mullick rubbished charges that the murder was due to infighting. In Alipurduar, former secretary of CPM’s Alipurduar Block I Krishak Sabha, Prabhat Adhikary, was shot at in Topsikhata Chowpatty, allegedly by civic volunteer Tushar Barman. According to locals, Tushar is a Trinamool activist and the vice-president of a booth committee. Luckily for Prabhat, the bullet missed him and he managed to escape. He has lodged an FIR against Tushar, who said he was being framed before the panchayat polls. Prabhat’s kin is contesting the polls at Poror Par gram panchayat in Alipurduar as an Independent candidate. They are residents of the same panchayat. 
 
 Trinamool men clashed with BJP supporters during scrutiny at Purulia’s Balampur, leaving 10 injured. At least seven houses of   leaders were bombed and torched in Malda’s Ratua as suspected Trinamool workers led a siege on Congress candidates at Chandmuni under Pukhuria police station. It was alleged that Congress candidates Masidur Rahman and Mamtaj Begum had been earlier threatened with dire consequences as they did not agree to withdraw their nominations. On Wednesday, a group gathered near Rahman’s home and started pelting bombs and Molotov cocktails at his house. His relatives who also are his neighbours did not escape the violence as their houses, too, were attacked. 
 
 “They never wanted my husband to contest, but he was defiant. Today, they tried to kill my husband,” said Tajkera Biwi, Rahman’s wife. Trouble broke out in the neighbouring Salabatpur village under the same gram panchayat. Malda police superintendent Arnab Ghosh said: “Some houses were ransacked and set afire. We have set a police camp there and the situation is now under control.” 
 
 No one has been arrested yet. Trinamool district president   denied allegations of violence. “It happened due to an internal strife in the Congress. Our party had no role in the violence,” he said.
