PATNA: The   ( ) on Sunday started removing the mounds of garbage from   secondary transit point after Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi’s directive on Saturday in this regard in a bid for better waste management in the city.

 Currently, the garbage is picked up from 32 wards of the PMC and discarded temporarily at the Gardanibagh transit point from where the trash is further transported to the primary dumping yard at Ramachak Bairiya. Ironically, this transit point is near   that houses a large number of patients.
 
 “Immediate action was taken after the DM’s directive. City manager Om Prakash, along with other officers, was deployed to look after the progress of the work. But, it is a herculean task to dispose of the city waste within the given deadline, that is Monday. The municipal commissioner has written a letter to DM specifying that the work for minimizing trash has been initiated but it will take a little time to zero down the amount of garbage,” Nutan Rajdhani Circle executive officer   told this newspaper on Sunday. 
 
 “We receive around 100 tractors of garbage from the 32 wards every day. Earlier, there were 8 trucks with a capacity of 15 tonnes each that used to make 24 rounds in a day for transferring the garbage to the primary site. But after the DM’s directive, as many as 14 trucks transfer the trash in more than 50 rounds per day. Till Saturday, more than 1500 tonnes of garbage was found at the secondary transit location,” he said. 
 
 One of the doctors at the hospital rued, “On one side we have a mountain of pungent smelling garbage and slit and on the other we have people sitting and protesting. Is this how the environment around a hospital should be?” She said the government has claimed to minimize the deposit, but we want the garbage site shifted to some secluded land from around the hospital premises. 
 
 A PMC official said, “A secondary transit point is very necessary. In bigger cities, there are more than one transit points with advanced waste management techniques. But here in Patna, we have only one transit point that lacks proper technological support. So, it is nearly impossible to shift the transit location. However, presence of least garbage can be ensured.”
 
 
