NEW DELHI: With a single off   on December 19, 2010   reached a landmark that was at one point of time considered mythical, almost unattainable. That one run took him to 100 on day four of the Centurion Test match against South Africa - the first man in the history of cricket to score 50 Test centuries. 

 Against the backdrop of the fans on the grass banks at SuperSport Park chanting "Sachin, Sachin" from the time he got to 88, Tendulkar - at the time aged 37 - moved to 95 with a six off spinner   before displaying understandable signs of nerves. After a series of bouncers from Steyn, he moved from 97 to 99 with an inside-edged two, then pushed the same bowler into the offside for a single that got him to the milestone. Tendulkar raised his arms to accept the cheers of the crowd and the opposition, then got back to batting. The hundred came in his 175th Test. 
 
 "It's just another number but it's nice," said Tendulkar. "Every innings, I want to go out and score runs. I'm very happy that it came at this moment. Saturday was my father's birthday and so I dedicate this hundred to him. That's the first thing I thought of, that I was doing it for him. And also to say thank you for all the fabulous support I have had over the years."
 
  
  
 Needing 484 to make South Africa bat again, that India were able to bat out the day was thanks to Tendulkar's stand of 172 with MS Dhoni (90) after they fell from 190/2 to 277/6 in the morning session. Tendulkar's half-century came up with a fierce pull shot through midwicket, before Dhoni took over with three straight boundaries off   as he brought up his fifty off just 40 balls. 
 
 
 A snorter from Steyn eventually cut Dhoni off ten runs shy of a hundred, and in the next over Harris had Harbhajan Sing edging to slip. India were 454/8 when bad weather ended played in the final over of the day, and South Africa duly wrapped up victory on the fifth morning. 
 
 Tendulkar's unbeaten 111, which featured 13 fours and one six, could not prevent an innings defeat in the first of three Tests, but it showed that the Indian team was going to fight. As it turned out, they won the next match in Durban and drew in Cape Town - where Tendulkar's 146 played a big role - to achieve their first drawn series on South African soil. 
 
 In the course of his excellent innings, Tendulkar also passed 14,500 runs in Test cricket.
 
 
