First and foremost,   have to realize that they have to make confident choices. Today, if I look at what women want, they want respect, recognition and equal opportunities. Women must recognize and realize the fact that there are huge opportunities for them to basically partake in the economic mainstream. And what they need to focus on is self-belief, self-confidence, a can-do attitude and the ability to endure criticism and scepticism. 
Women have a different set of challenges, while the men also have their own. Women have to also realize that they have to make the right choices, be it to be independent or empowered. But, they have to work for it. For this, you have to work hard and beat the odds. You have to be able to face   and challenges, and overcome them. It is only then that one can be successful. Success is about managing failure. Women should not feel that they’re unsuccessful when they fail for the first time. Failure is the stepping stone to success. And managing failure is what success is all about. Women really need to understand that the world is very different today. It does give opportunities to people who believe in themselves. Whether you’re a man or a woman, if you believe in yourself and what you’re doing, you will be able to succeed. We have to also understand that nothing is easy. Everybody has to strive and struggle. But it is an endurance test and if you can strive, struggle and overcome challenges, you can succeed. 
 Women, today, have many more opportunities, compared to what I had when I started my career 40 years ago. We have so many government-backed schemes today that reiterate the fact that there is a strong focus on women’s empowerment, which wasn’t there earlier. So, women have to take advantage of all the support that they are getting today. 
 Eventually, I want to just reiterate one aspect — that of self-belief. One needs to build self-confidence through the purposeful pursuit of what you are doing. Make sure you understand that there are a lot of opportunities for women today and it is up to you to make those choices. 
 
