PANAJI: The ongoing controversy over demands for installation of Dr Jack de Sequeira’s statue in the state assembly complex saw a further turn of events on Tuesday with the MGP proposing to move a private member’s resolution that Dr   and T B Cunha’s statue be installed in the assembly complex. To complicate matters further, BJP’s Bicholim MLA   has given notice to table a private member’s resolution that the statue of Maratha king   be installed in the assembly complex.

 Party president Pandurang ‘Deepak’ Dhavalikar said that though the party had earlier resolved that no more statues would be installed at the complex, with rising demand for the installation of Sequeira’s statue, it had become vital that Lohia’s and Cunha’s statue be installed first.
 
 “It is our counter attack. We feel all these demands for new statues in the assembly complex are only political attempts to malign the name of Goa’s first chief minister and MGP leader Bahusaheb Bandodkar,” Deepak said.
 
 While MGP is an ally in the BJP-led coalition government headed by chief minister Manohar Parrikar, GFP, which is pushing for a Sequeira statue in the assembly complex, is BJP’s other alliance partner.
 
 With the ruling coalition divided over the issue, Parrikar recently said that it’s the speaker who has to take a call on the issue.
 
 ‘Shivaji made first bids to free Goa’
 
 Speaker Pramod Sawant said, “I am studying the matter.” He confirmed that the assembly secretariat has received four notices — from NCP’s  , BJP’s Michael Lobo and Patnekar, and MGP’s Sanvordem MLA Dipak Pauskar — for moving private member’s resolution on the statue issue.
 
 Clearly hitting out at GFP, MGP leader and minister in the BJP-led government Ramakrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar said, “These leaders are misleading people in the name of Goenkarponn. Our population has crossed 16 lakh according to a top official in the state. In that case we need to take all these 16 lakh together with us. We are Indians first and then Goenkars. This should be our principle.”
 
 Meanwhile Patnekar said, “If we are talking about installing statues of those who have worked for Goa’s freedom struggle, then Shivaji had made the first attempts to free Goa.”
 
 Stating that this is his independent resolution, Patnekar said, “I will try to convince my party, coalition members as well as the opposition if my resolution is allowed.”
 
 Deepak said that the MGP had passed another resolution that all highways across Goa should be named after those who had participated in Goa’s freedom struggle.
 
 The PWD minister said that he has also discussed with the CM a proposal to set up a 2-3 lakh sqm park within 15km radius of Panaji. “We have land. I am not saying Dr Jack Sequeira has not worked for Goa. But to really appreciate the efforts of freedom fighters, we should have a park with statues of all those who have contributed towards making Goa what it is. We should also have miniature replicasof all of Goa’s ancient temples, churches and mosques,” Sudin said.
 
 He said that when Bandodkar’s statue was installed in the assembly complex, it was based on a resolution in the assembly, which was supported by all parties.
 
 Reacting to statements by GFP leaders that MGP should consider changing its name, Sudin said that they cannot do so. “There is nothing in a name. For us it is the work done by the party which holds significance,” Deepak said.
 
