MUMBAI: The cash-strapped Maharashtra government did not announce any big-ticket infrastructure   for the   or the city. It has pushed the onus of raising funds for certain critical projects in the city on state-owned entities such as   and  .

 While continuing to focus on its ongoing projects, the state government has announced a budgetary allocation of Rs 10,828 crore for undertaking repair and reconstruction works of the road network across the state. It has allocated more for road improvement and bridge construction works.
 
 “The state government will be undertaking two- and three-laning on a large network of roads. Projects worth Rs 16,000 crore are in the tender stage,” said finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar, while reading from the budget speech. 
 
 Meanwhile, Rs 2,558 crore has been budgeted for small roads under the Chief Minister’s Rural Road Development Scheme. Roads that span more than 7,600km will be taken up for improvement under the scheme.
 
 The state government mentioned the long-overdue expansion of the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, which will be done by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). But there is no monetary allocation for it.
 
 Mungantiwar said the government has asked MMRDA and Cidco to bear 50% cost of the Mumbai Urban Transport Project-III. The project is being undertaken by Mumbai Railway Vikas Corporation and the cost-sharing pattern is 50:50, of which the Central government has given its share of Rs 519.5 crore. “Currently, projects worth over Rs 1 lakh crore are in progress. We want to make allocations to these and complete them on a priority basis,” said Mungantiwar.
 
 The state has proposed a Rs 130 crore subsidiary loan for the Metro projects of Mumbai. Currently, a total of 266km length for Metro rail has been approved and construction of 163km is expected to cost Rs 76,421 crore. Similarly, a subsidy loan of Rs 90 crore will be given for the metro projects of Nagpur and Pune.
 
 Work on the Mumbai-Nagpur super communications highway project will start in April 2018; 52% acquisition of private land has been completed and joint measurement of 99% of the land has been completed.
 
 The government has given sanctions to 11 waterways projects worth Rs 222 crore. Under the Sagarmala project, several sea links are being proposed in various locations in Mumbai. The water-taxi project from Ferry Wharf to Mandwa will be completed by April 2018. 
 
 
