By: R
 CHANDIGARH: Every morning when I see the grove of   trees in my neighbourhood ablaze like a yellow orb with its profuse yellow flowers — I wonder, which painter would truly capture the raw energy of their fiery, golden blaze most powerfully? My best bet is Vincent Van Gogh; the gentleness of a Claude Monet or Paul Gauguin and other impressionist masters won’t do! Only Van Gogh’s brush strokes had the raw, maniac energy to encapsulate such naked beauty!

 Chandigarh’s defining summer flowering trees: amaltas,   and pink cassias , when the sun is beating down mercilessly on the parched earth below and the firmament is one endless glaring vastness and the monsoons many thunders away — are like nature’s redemption for turning on the merciless heat. 
 
 The most blazing among all the summer ‘show-offs’ are the amaltas ( cassia fistula) that seem to have overnight in a Cinderella like transformation, turned from a mundane foliage of dusty, dry looking leaves into an orbs of gold—packing in all the sun’s summer radiance! The name cassia is derived from Greek, meaning aromatic and fistula alludes to tubular fruit dangling unmistakably between the bunches of yellow flowers hanging from branches like a grapes from a vine.
 
 The tree has a spread of about 35-40 feet with similar height, and the trunk is greenish grey. The aromatic flowering is so abundant and profuse that the entire ground below is carpeted with yellow dots. My favourite place to spot them in Chandigarh is the V4 shopping street of Sector 16. It is perhaps the only surviving V4 shopping street of Chandigarh, retaining its original concept of having a distinct colour coding with unique flowering trees, as was envisaged for each Sector by Le Corbusier.
 
 The gulmohar/ goldmohur (delonix regia ) is another magnificent, flowering tree with a beautiful rounded canopy that is ablaze with bloom of vermillion to scarlet red flowers completely draping the tree, that was just a few days ago clad in feathery leaves. Some leaves are still visible making the vermillion flowers even more striking with the green and red contrast. It has a perfect umbrella shape of 40-50’ height and 50-60 feet spread.
 
 In Chandigarh the trees lining an avenue in the Panjab University campus is very conspicuous, and also the trees can be seen in Sectors 18, 17 & 21—and scattered in many gardens, parks and even shopping area parking lots—bringing in some cheer and nature amidst the clutter of cars parked there in chaos.
 
 Between these two big show-offs is the gentle intermediary of the light pink to rose pink flowering tree of pink cassia, Java-ki-rani ( cassia javanica) These medium sized spreading trees are also in bloom and one of them is right in front of the police post near the Sukhna Lake entrance. They have brownish barks and a spread of 30-40 feet and height of 25-30 feet. They also have feathery light green leaves similar to gulmohars out of which peep out the shy, delicate flowers. The trees can be seen along   and in Sectors 2,3,4 7 5 and in the city gardens and elsewhere too.
 
 With these big three flowering trees the symphony of Spring that started with Silk Cotton trees in February comes to a close.
 
 Forget the impressionist masters or a Picasso to come and paint these fiery orbs of nature dotting Chandigarh’s landscape -- how about a local young artist picking up the brush?
 
 (The author is former principal of the Chandigarh College of Architecture and a noted heritage expert and critic with numerous publications. He has also co-authored ‘Trees of Chandigarh’) 
 
 
