Lying on the grass and watching musicians render a soulful symphony up in the sky – the recently organised aerial act by French artists was nothing less than a dream. The event, conducted by the   at  , was part of the closing ceremony of the  . The act began with a theatrical performance, followed by a musical show for which the artists boarded a crane that went 30 metres up in the air. Apart from playing music, three artists also performed acrobatics in the air.
Bretrand De Hartingh, General Curator, Bonjour India, said, "This is the last public event of Bonjour India. It is our gift to the people of Delhi who have been very supportive. We organised The Experience, an exhibition demonstrating the Indo-French journey, a few months back at the   and it was overwhelming to see the kind of support we got from Delhiites."
 
  
  The artists walked through the audience with bells and torches
 
 
 
 Bhavika, a Malviya Nagar resident, said, "It was a really nice show and the best part was that they kept the entry free. Normally, people often miss out on such shows because they are reserved for a certain audience. Also, since people from all walks of life attended the event, they got to know about the group and next time they would be willing to pay and watch their next show."
  
  Some theatrical performances were also organized at the event
 
 
 
 Chhaya, a Class XIII student of  , said, “It was really cool. I liked the acrobats the most. I really loved the whole execution and the architecture of the petal-shaped crane. Their costumes were also amazing. Since their makeup made them look a bit frightening, my younger sister got a bit scared when one of the artists came close to her. It was a fun event though.”
 Avni, a Class VI student, said, "We were laughing our heads off in the beginning when the artists did a bit of theatre and then it all went quiet when the music started playing and they went up in the air. The whole act was very engaging, the artists interacted with the audience and we felt like we were part of their act."
 
  
  That’s how it’s done!
 
 
 
 Gilles Rhode, the founder of Transe Express, the group that performed at the event, said, "We have performed in 70 different countries and we found India very interesting. Though we wanted to perform at a more public space like Red Fort and India Gate, we didn’t get the permission. Though this venue was beautiful, the crowd was quite limited."
 
  
  The audience were quite taken by the aerial act
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 --Vibha.Maru@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
