By Prachi Arya

 The second edition of the   for Equality on Sunday saw several people from the   (Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and intersex) community walking for the cause. Organised by the  , the walk this time, started from   and covered a distance of 2.5kms. "We were really excited for the second season of the Pride Walk and so in order to make the celebrations more happening, we increased the distance from 1.5km to 2.5km this time,"shared  , key organiser of the parade. 
  
  A dance of joy at the Awadh Queer Pride walk in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  Abhaya (L) and Lisa (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Dancing on dhol beats, the members shouted slogans like 'My Body My Rights, Who The Hell Are You To Decide', 'Humari Azadi Hum Chheen Ke Lengey, Hum Jhoom Ke Lengey', 'Kaun Sa Kanoon Sabse Badttar, 377-377!' 'I am Gay and It’s Okay!'
 Like last year, this year too the members of the community came from different parts of the country to be a part of the parade. Clad in an orange Bengali sari was Anu Paul, who came all the way from Kolkata. Anu was happy to be back for the second Pride Walk. "Events like these definitely help in addressing the issue. We are conducting this pride march with a hope that someday people will accept us," said Anu.
 
  
  Shruti Shukla and Surbhi Mamta (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  Akshai Abraham, Alex and Darvesh Singh Yadavendra (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Prakash, who came all the way from Bengaluru, and was attending the walk for the second time in Lucknow, shared, "I can already see a lot of change here. While in the last parade most of the people were wearing masks and hiding their faces, this time, a lot of people have come out of the closet and there are only a handful who are hiding their identities. A majority of them are from Lucknow and other parts of the state, which is a big change that we can see here."
 The pride parade also had two foreigners in attendance who came to support the cause. "We got to know about this event on  . At first, when we saw this event, we were surprised. We didn’t know the people in Lucknow are becoming so open about a cause like the rights of the LGBTQI community," said Amenda, from the US, who was visiting India. 
 
  
  Abeer Shukla came with his pet Jalwa (R) Eknoor (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 Interestingly, a few just came to support their friends. Amit Kumar, a working professional in Lucknow, who was there to support his friend, said he was initially quite scared to be a part of such an event. "At first, I was not at all comfortable to come for this event. However, finally, I decided to come to support my friend . The experience has been a good one. Though I didn’t dance with the other members of the community, I did hold the rainbow coloured flag and walked with everyone. I also interacted with several of them and it was an enriching experience for me to hear their stories," said Amit.
 The Pride Walk finally concluded at the Gandhi statue in  , where everyone recited a poem on gender equality and justice. 
 
  
  Tanzeel (R) A couple at the parade (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
  
  Ali and Angelika (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 
