NAGPUR: Setting a record, the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP) on Tuesday trained as many as 3,000 persons including 300 hearing and speech impaired schoolchildren in basic life support (BLS) or cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR).

 The training workshop was organized by IAP as part of its national conference that begins on Thursday at   auditorium.
 
 The day-long workshop was inaugurated by the city mayor Nanda Jichkar. A team of specialists led by Dr Meenakshi Girish, Dr Pravin Dahake and Dr Rajkumar Kiratkar trained the participants in CPR. Dr Girish explained the basics of the technique with the help of a video presentation and mannequins.
 
 Jichkar was all praise for the participating students and the doctors who coordinated the training. She stated hosting the national level PEDICON was a matter of pride for the city. She termed the BLS training endeavour as Social Learning module with immense importance and opportunity to save lives. She asked everyone to recite the oath and try to be worthy of it all their life.
 
 Director of   and LSTS Dr Suchika Deshmukh underlined the importance of the technique. Both the NGOs provided team of specialists for the training.
 
 President of Central Indian Academy of Paediatrics (C-IAP) Dr Santosh Soan spoke on the need of life saving training and praised the students for their enthusiastic participation. He urged them to continue to practise the technique and use it when needed.
 
 Dr Vinky Rughvani, member Maharashtra Medical Council, Dr R.G. Patil, Dr Sanjay Marathe, Dr Girish Charde and Dr Kritish Balpande, Dr Vasant Khalatkar, Dr Jayant Upadhye, Dr   (conference’s patron) and Dr Avinash Gawande from   also present.
 
 A study revealed that although 70% heart attacks occurred when the person was at home only 50-55% got proper medical attention. Further, when a heart attack struck a person when he was away from home, in 90% cases, he doesn’t get a CPR and dies. The study also underlined that during first few minutes after the heart attack if proper CPR is given, the chances of survival improve dramatically.
 
 
