Nagpur: The latest decision to extend support to the kin of slain police informers in Maoist-affected Gadchiroli district by offering them a job in government, semi-government or affiliated agencies may offer some reasons to smile for the afflicted families.  The Committee for Integration and Coordination at State Government level under the scheme of Unified Command Mechanism, under the chairmanship of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, has decided that one kin of informers killed by Maoists would be offered a job in the Class III or IV grade as per qualification and skill of the applicant.  A Gadchiroli-based senior officer said the latest decision would boost morale of the population that wants to help police department by sharing ‘pinpointed information’.  The banned outfit Communist Party of India (Maoist) has been claiming to champion the cause of local people and their rights on the jal (water), jangal (forest) and jameen (land). In Gadchiroli, though there had been many instances where the threats of Maoist operatives are prompting families to leave their home for safer destinations.  The latest instance of Gadchiroli police sheltering the family of Dhanora-taluka based landlord Shankar Achhla of Bhatmaryan village in district headquarters following relentless threats from Maoists has underlined the plight of a people who branded ‘police informers’ by Maoists and often killed.  It is learnt materialistic success of the Acchla family, that owns 28 acres land and other properties, has become an eyesore for the local Maoist cadres and their sympathizers who believe the family got wealthy by sharing information about the outlaws with the security agencies.  Addl SP, Gadchiroli, Mahesh Reddy, who is also the acting SP, said Acchla family was provided housing by the police department after gauging their predicament. “they are neither police informers nor even police warden of the village. There has been no arrests or even any encounter where he stayed,” he said. “The Acchlas are not the solitary case in the district. There have been more than 100 such displaced families living under fear of Maoists. Even the persons who strive for police recruitment and their families are often driven out of their native place by the reds,” he said.