JAIPUR: About 1,000 kgs of garbage collected in   (SMS) Hospital per day is likely to be converted into organic compost as the hospital administration has shot off a letter to   (JMC) to know its legal implications and terms and conditions and also mandatory permission from Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board. 

 In the hospitals, there are 2,300 beds in different wards, where patients are admitted for treatment. Almost an equal number of attendants make the hospital a crowded place. In such a situation, it is estimated that 2,300 patients along with their attendants dump at least one kg of general garbage, which does not include bio-medical waste. The general waste includes leftover fruits, food and other such stuff. 
 
 “For bio-medical waste, we have third party agreement, which is a Delhi-based company that disposes of bio-medical waste as per the norms set for its safe disposal. But, general waste such as leftover food and fruits collected from different wards go waste. The JMC disposes general waste. But now we have sent some queries to JMC for legal implications and terms and condition for setting up of compost plant,” said Dr  , deputy superintendent and nodal officer, bio-medical waste, SMS Hospital. 
 
 As of now such garbage is transported by the JMC without getting utilised. Daily there is at least 1,000 kg of garbage collected in the hospital, which can be utilised for converting into compost. But the hospital administration is taking its merit and demerits into consideration. The hospital’s concern is that if they set up compost plant, will the compost plant become source of spreading infection in the hospital. The compost plant will need proper monitoring and its upkeep to   of infection. 
 
 Besides, there are legal issues associated with it, as there will be requirement of permission from Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board. 
 
 The officials said that the benefit of the compost plant is that it will produce organic compost which will bring down use of chemicals which are used in agriculture.
 
 
