Some matches are sure made in heaven! And some are consecrated in the organic farmer markets. Clean eating, new-fangled diets, weightloss and fitness fervour are the ingredients of modern-day ‘healthy’ marriages. If there are alpha couples, power couples and the crazy-in-love couples, there are also the ‘dare you show us carbs’ couples. They follow celeb diet timetables, go to select diners dishing out uber health fare and give each other major workout goals.

  Remember the old nursery rhyme about Jack Sprat who ate no fat, while his wife could eat no lean? There are enough surveys to back the fact that the habits of a healthy spouse tend to rub off on his or her partner. “Eating right can be discouraging, but our partner can be our cheerleader, celebrating with us when we meet our goals and spurring us on when the numbers on the scale aren’t quite what we hoped they would be. Even though we share no genes with our partner, health-wise each of us is far more like our partner than a person chosen at random,” say authors Thomas N Bradbury and Benjamin R Karney in their book Love Me Slender: How Smart Couples Team Up to Lose Weight, Exercise More, and Stay Healthy Together. Nutritionist Manjari Chandra says, “Studies have revealed that individuals who made health goals such as losing weight, exercising more and giving up smoking were three times more likely to succeed if their partner was working toward the same goal.”
 
  Diets such as ATKINS,  , Intermittent fasting, Vegan Diet, Mediterranean diet or Weight Watcher’s diet are regimented diets. These diets give significant results in lesser time and are rigorous to follow. A couple attempting to do such diets together can expect higher success rates than individuals. Here are some simple hacks to succeed as a diet couple:
 
 
 When you’re cooking a meal together, from picking out recipes to to putting together a grocery list to the actual preparation of the meal, communication is the key to success.
 
 
 When your partner makes a healthy choice, be sure to let them know it. 
 
 
  If you live together, stock food that is colourful, healthy and fresh. Get rid of anything processed and packaged that’s taking up space in your pantry.
 
 
  Whether it’s exploring a new hike every weekend or whipping up your favourite fruit smoothie or tossing up your salad, each morning before work, create healthy rituals to keep you on track.
 
 
  Inspire your partner by making healthy choices and being active instead of lounging at home.
 
 
 If you want to discuss weight gain with her, do so after she complains of a health issue or returns from a doc’s appointment. Use this opportunity to discuss high BP, high cholesterol, sugar levels and talk about becoming more active and eating healthier.
 
  Ideal diets for couples are those that take into account special occasions like birthdays, vacations, real life situations like work stress and so on. Only then couples will be able to lose weight sensibly and sustainably without losing out on the joys of being together — Munmun Ganeriwal, Nutritionist & Fitness Consultant
 
 Don’t be the food police. There is a fine line between being supportive and nagging. While encouragement is a good thing, nagging is definitely not.
 
 
