AURANGABAD: A woman in her advanced stage of labour delivered a baby girl on a platform at Parbhani railway station on Thursday morning.

 The woman, who was travelling with her brother, arrived at the station after a medical check-up at Nanded, railway authorities said.
 
 “We were alerted by some passengers that a pregnant lady was in distress on platform number 1. We reached the spot only to find her surrounded by women passengers. The lady delivered a girl within no time with help from passengers,” Parbhani station manager   said.
 
 The railway authorities immediately called up an ambulance for shifting the woman to hospital. However, the delay in its arrival prompted her brother to hail an auto-rickshaw. “Heeding to her brother’s request to shift the mother and the new born to a government hospital, we allowed entry of the auto-rickshaw up to the platform and the woman was immediately rushed to hospital,” railway authorities said.
 
 Incidentally, the baby was shifted to the hospital along with its umbilical cord, which was cut at the state-run hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, the   (SCR) carried out rigorous drive against ticketless travellers in the Nanded division on Thursday.
 
 The massive crackdown helped the authorities to catch 516 ticketless travellers and collect around Rs 2.23 lakh fine, which is one of the highest single day recoveries, SCR authorities said.
 
 “Surprise checks were conducted on express train and passenger trains. Squads travelling in private vehicles halted trains between two stations and gave no opportunity for errant passengers to escape,” public relations officer of Nanded division of SCR, Rajesh  , said.
 
 As per rules, travellers caught ticketless have to pay base fare plus Rs 250 towards compounding action. Similarly, those stepping on platform without mandatory ten-rupee ticket also have to pay Rs 250 additionally, the authorities said.
 
 The crackdown also focussed on unauthorised vendors. The railway authorities said such sellers must purchase monthly vendor season tickets while travelling on trains. “Several vendors violate rules and travel on trains on season ticket, which falls in the category of unauthorised travel. We have taken punitive action against 10 such vendors during the drive,” Shinde said.
 
 The drive also took into account that food items and packaged drinking water by pantry owners and other authorised sellers were as per stipulated rates.
 
 Stating that similar drives against errant travellers would continue in future too in order to curb ticketless traveling and other unauthorised practices, SCR authorities said such periodic action will help in protecting rights of bona fide passengers.
 
 Appealing to passengers to travel on legitimate tickets, SCR authorities said such cooperation from travellers would help the railways cater to passengers in an effective manner.
 
 
