If you were in the hills, sipping on some tea, gazing dreamily at the beauty around you, how do you imagine the background music would be like? Listen to the music by these quartet from   to know what we’re talking about. Sisters all, they are Mercy, Kuvelü, Alüne and Azi Tetseo who are accompanied by their musician brother and sound engineer/producer, Mhaseve. 

 Besides melodic originals, they have also composed covers of popular numbers like 'Nothing On You' (Bruno Mars), 'Barso Re' (Guru), ' ' (Charlie Puth feat Meghan Trainor), among others. With a contemporary universal appeal, their tribal harmonic sound is their USP. “We all sing and play traditional instruments, Tati, Khrokhro Shakers and Bamhum. Azi is currently not touring with the group as she is a full-time mommy at this point,” says Mercy. Talking about how the band was formed, she says, “We have been performing together as group since 1992 and graduated to doing shows as a band from 2005 onwards. However, we only started performing music full-time from 2011. We are siblings and singing together at home was a regular affair from a very young age. Our parents encouraged us to listen to all genres of music and perform mini shows in the living room on Sunday evenings. That’s where our showmanship developed.” 
 
 They perform in an endangered tribal dialect and have been invited to play and share their music at festivals across the country and abroad as well. Offering a mix of traditional, rustic-folk fusion with contemporary touch, their emphasis is on vocal harmonies that tell the stories of humanity and the locals. With a diverse taste in music, they relate to many genres. “Since most of us were born in the 80s and 90s, we listened to a great deal of pop, RnB and hip-hop. Nevertheless, we are open to new and old sounds so long as they are pleasing to the ears and soothing to the soul,” says Mercy. With a desire to team with  , they are planning to come up with an EP, an album or two and share many stories...
 
