Nagpur: As finance minster Arun Jaitley is set to present his last full budget, financial professionals are not speculating any major change in the   laws. Expected to be a populist budget, it is felt that Jaitley may come up with some relaxations for individual taxpayers.

 Chartered accountants in the city said the budget should also make the provisions related to capital gains tax simpler and ease the penalties.
 
 Rajesh Loya, former chairman of Nagpur branch of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI), said it was expected the government should propose a 20% increase in the basic exemption limit at least. The options for tax-specific savings should be widened, he said.
 
 “There is a major need to rationalize the provisions related to capital gains. At present, there is a lot of litigation with the department on account of confusion over different provisions. There needs to be clarity. These include capital cost, cost of acquisition, cost of improvement, and definition of long-term assets,” he said.
 
 A penalty of 120% was imposed in the last budget for unexplained income found during raids or similar actions. It starts with 60% rate of tax on which 30% penalty is added and along with surcharges, the final rate comes to 120%, he said. “This is too burdensome. Sometimes tax is not paid on account difference in interpretation of the law between the assessee and department officials. Lack of awareness is also one of the reasons,” said Loya.
 
 “The budget is expected to be focused on common man, with some measures expected for the corporate sector too,” said Naresh Jhakotia, a chartered accountant practising direct taxes. The government offers an interest subsidy up to Rs1.5 lakh for low cost homes under its housing for all scheme. The limit needs to be increased, he said.
 
 Kailash Jogani, also a chartered accountant, said there was much buzz about the term for long term capital gains being changed to 24 months as against 36 months. “This has already been done for land and building. It is being speculated the tenure for other assets may also be reduced to 24 months in order to bring parity. Apart from measures for individual taxpayers, the finance minister must also come up with certain relaxations on minimum alternate tax (MAT) and dividend distribution tax (DDT),” he said.
 
 “Not much can be expected on indirect taxes as goods and services tax (GST) is practically out of purview of budget. The changes in GST provisions are recommended by the GST Council. Certain changes on direct taxes can be expected,” said Ashok Chandak, former president of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI).
 
 Taxes wish list
 
 Need to increase basic exemption limit by at least 20%
 
 Clarity sought in provisions related to capital gains
 
 Call for reducing penalty on unexplained income
 
 Increase interest subsidy for affordable housing 
 
 
