GURUGRAM: The forest department on Friday deployed a nine-member special task force in the  . The deployment came nearly four weeks after the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF) sent a directive to the Haryana government.

 Apart from the special task force, the number of forest guards has been increased from 22 to 31 and check posts from 11 to 16. “There are four foresters, four forest guards and one wildlife guard in the special task force. We have also added four check posts in the city,” a senior forest official told TOI.
 
 While some green activists have welcomed the move, few expressed doubts over the forest department’s claims of more check posts.
 
 “We are glad that finally a special task force has been deployed in the  . However, it is yet to be seen that how effective it will be. We are still reporting illegal waste dumping in the Aravalis. I hope that all these violations will now be looked into. Also, the special task force should be well-equipped to deal with encroachers and poachers,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist. 
 
 Shivani Sharma, an honorary animal welfare officer,   (AWBI), said, “It is definitely a good step. However we have not been informed about this step yet. We will physically visit the check posts and see if there are any loopholes.”
 
 On December 28, the green activists met Union environment minister Dr Harsh Vardhan in the national capital and demanded the deployment of a special special task force in the Aravalis after a surge in cases of poaching and tree felling. The activists have been patrolling the Aravalis, along with the forest department, since then.
 
 In fact, they had approached the Union minister after an animal activist found a peacock stuck in a trap in the Raisina area of the Aravalis on December 9. After he raised an alarm, activists uncovered more traps in the area.
 
 However, Vivek Kamboj, another environmentalist, said, “I have been visiting the Aravalis for a very long time. I didn’t see any check post. No guards have ever been seen in the area. I don’t think the claims made by the forest department are true. Also they should make sure that check posts are there in the entire Aravalis, in Faridabad, Sohna and other areas.”
 
 
 
