Bhopal: If a power tariff hike proposal from discoms gets a stamp of approval, you will end up paying three time more than what consumers pay for the same number of units in Delhi. To put it simply, consumers in the state will pay Rs 3012 for use of same power consumption for which Delhites shell out Rs 961.

 Madhya Pradesh power distribution companies submitted their annual revenue requirement before the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (MPERC) for year 2018-19, seeking a tariff hike of 4%. 
 
 Experts, however, feel there is an urgent need to review existing tariff in the state, where power tariff is highest in the country. A comparison of the power tariff in Delhi after recent hike there reveals startling difference. 
 
 An analysis of the tariff of Delhi and Madhya Pradesh by former additional chief engineer of Madhya Pradesh Power Generation Company Limited, Rajendra Agarwal says not only for consumers whose power bills are being subsidized by the Delhi government, but power is costlier in Madhya Pradesh even for high-end consumers, whose bills are not being subsidized in Delhi. 
 
 “The power bill of consumers using 200 units of power per month is Rs 550 in Delhi, but consumers in the state will have to pay Rs 1,367 for same consumption. Similarly, in other segments, consumers using 300 units of power every month, will have to pay 2.76 times more in Madhya Pradesh. For consumers using 400 units of power every month, the power bill will be 3.1 times as much in Madhya Pradesh when compared to Delhi,” Agarwal told TOI. 
 
 It is wrong to say power bills in Delhi are lower because government is subsidizing them. Even for consumers using 500 units of power and are not subsidized, the bill in Delhi would be Rs 3,197 and in Madhya Pradesh they will have to pay additional Rs 580 and their bill would be Rs 3,777 after the proposed hike. 
 
 “Tariff in state needs serious review and instead of increasing it should be decreased, there are several aspects which should be corrected, like coal billing, losses of power in input, proper management of surplus power,” Agarwal said. 
 
 “If these are reviewed properly, the tariff will automatically come down,” he said. 
 
 In its annual revenue requirement filed before the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission (MPERC), discoms have claimed 70% reduction in losses and hence went for nominal losses. Last year, the discoms had sought a 14% hike in tariff. Sources said there has been a significant reduction in the revenue gap of the companies due to increase in their efficiency—last year the revenue gap, (difference between income and expenditure) was cumulatively Rs 4,528 crore, which came down to only Rs 1,306 crore.
 
 
