MUMBAI: A major controversy erupted during the ongoing   U-19 World Cup in New Zealand on Wednesday when South African opener   was given out for obstructing the field of play after he handed the ball back to the West Indies wicketkeeper during their Group A match at  .

 The incident took place during the 17th over of the South African innings when Pillay stopped the ball from going on to hit the stumps. He then immediately picked up the motionless ball and
 
 threw it to West Indies wicketkeeper and captain Emmanuel Stewart, who then appealed.
 
 The on-field officials consulted the third umpire before Pillay was adjudged dismissed as per Law 37.4 of the MCC rules.
 
 The South Africa opener was thus unlucky to miss out on what would have been a well-deserved half-century as he scored a steady 47 off 51 balls, but the dismissal sparked a huge controversy with even South African captain Faf Du Plessis calling Windies captain's decision to appeal "an absolute joke" and certainly "not in the spirit of the game. "This is an absolute joke ... not in the spirit of the game. I have done this almost a 100 times," du Plessis tweeted. However, former Australian fast bowler   had a different take on the issue. "Maybe you should stop doing it. Whether we like or not, it's law in the game. As for spirit of the game, the players didn't do anything wrong right? #healthydebate," said Johnson to Du Plessis on social media.
 
 Former Australia player   and ex-West Indies pacer  , who're both commentators now, too were quick to show their displeasure at the incident. "Can't believe what I am seeing @ICC #U19WorldCup," she tweeted. "WI appealed for handling the ball. The ball had stopped rolling & the player picked it up."
 
 "This is an unfortunate issue," Bishop said. "The batsman isn't trying to gain an advantage. He is not trying to being unfair. The umpires have done what they need to do. The ball has stopped. It's not threatening the stumps. I don't necessarily feel as if that's a good law. It could take a re-look. The batsman is not trying to gain an unfair advantage," he said.
 
 Obstructing the field has always been a controversial rule in cricket even as the rule book is quite clear on the definition.
 
 The rule in question, however, justifies that the decision should have been 'Out'. According to Law 37.4 (Returning the ball to a fielder), "Either batsman is out Obstructing the field if, at any time while the ball is in play and, without the consent of a fielder, he/she uses the bat or any part of his/her person to return the ball to any fielder." As per the new law, introduced last year, handling the ball rule applies before the striker has "finished playing the ball", while obstructing the field applies afterwards.
 
 Stewart later said that on reflection, he'd have withdrawn the appeal.
 
 
