KOLKATA: The rehabilitation centre in Behala’s Siriti, where a woman inmate was raped, had as many as 49 male patients living on the ground floor and six female patients on the first floor. Worse, the kitchen of the centre was located on the first floor — the floor meant exclusively for women — where the only three persons who had access were men.

 
 This points to the fact that de-addiction centres remain entirely unmonitored in Kolkata, despite the existence of specific laws that govern their functioning, pointed out medics. While it’s mandatory for rehabilitation centres to have a psychiatrist apart from an MBBS doctor on a full-time basis, few follow the rules, they alleged. In the absence of proper guidance, the centres often use force and physical abuse to keep inmates away from addiction, a doctor said.
 
 
  
 
 The southwest division police, who are investigating the case, said they were ascertaining if the registration done under the Societies Act, 1961 (S/21/40618) was actually valid. “We are talking to various government departments to ascertain if this organization fulfilled all criteria to obtain this permission,” claimed an officer.
 
 Addicts are treated like social outcasts in most cities, including Kolkata, said J Ram, psychiatrist. “Families are often so desperate to get their dear ones out of addiction that they even endorse physical assault. Most centres are run by incompetent and unscrupulous people who take advantage of families’ desperation and convince them that abuse is also a part of the rehab process. This is absolutely wrong and exposes the fact that there is no sympathy towards the addicts. While it’s fashionable to speak for the mentally and physically challenged people, addicts have little support,” he added.
 
 Every rehabilitation centre must have at least two resident medical officers (RMO) — a psyhciatrist and an MBBS doctor — to secure an operating licence, according to the Mental Health Act, 1987. “The act is very clear about the requirements of a rehab centre. You can’t run a de-addiction centre without a psychiatrist and an MBBS doctor. It is unfortunate that rehab centres in Kolkata are flouting norms so blatantly,” said  , who runs a de-addiction centre in Ludhiana, Punjab.
 
 According to advocate  , who had written to the director of health services in 2015 seeking an enforcement of regulations, centres are run by former addicts for whom these are an easy way to earn money. “They employ a few people and hire a flat to start a centre. Most don’t even bother to hire the services of a doctor,” said Ghosh.
 
