CHANDIGARH:   has not stepped outside her house for 20 days. The last time when the 62-year-old was sitting outside with her grandson on March 8, two men on a motorcycle snatched her gold chain in Sector 44. With the injury marks still visible on her neck,   says she has stopped sitting or even talking walks outside the house. “At the most, I go and sit on the balcony or in the verandah,” says Basanti, still shuddering too recall the incident. Basanti says she has been living in the city for more than 30 years but never before felt so unsafe. She is not alone.

 The spate of   have caused terror among city residents, especially women. Victims are changing their daily routine, with some even stopping from wearing jewellery or carry handbags.
 
 Pooja is one of them. Ever since her purse was snatched by a motorcyclist near   in Sector 28 on March 23, she has stopped carrying a handbag while going out. “The incident has shaken me. I will never forget it in my life,” says the 27-year-old. “The accused snatched my purse in full public view and nobody came to help me,” says the resident of Sector 28.
 
 Neetu of   too has stopped carrying a purse. A man on a motorcycle had snatcher her purse containing Rs 5,000 in the locality around a week back. “Now, I do not go out with a purse,” she says. “Women cannot go their workplace, they cannot sit or take a stroll outside their houses. In some cases, the accused have entered the houses to carry out snatchings,” she says, slamming the failure of the police to curb the crime.
 
 Surekha, another snatching victim, agrees women cannot walk the streets with gold chains or purses. “A man snatched my gold chain while I was going to meet a neighbour in Sector 40 on March 13. Now, I have stopped wearing one. It is not possible for us to buy a new chain,” she says.
 
 Since January 1 till date, 75 snatchings have been reported from different parts of city. Snatchers target elderly women in city. However, police claimed to have solve 34 cases.
 
 
 
 
