NEW DELHI: The   has filed an affidavit in the   alleging that former finance minister   was part of the "conspiracy" to give   ( ) clearance to Aircel-Maxis by concealing facts so that the matter was not referred to the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs and was cleared by the finance ministry.

 The affidavit said ED questioned senior officials posted in FIPB at that time — including the FIPB secretary, additional secretary, deputy secretary and the under secretary — who were also part of the "conspiracy".
 
 Chidambaram and his son Karti have maintained that all allegations by ED as well as CBI against them are baseless and part of a witch-hunt being carried out at the instance of the Modi government to silence opposition. 
 
 In its affidavit, ED said while Aircel sought permission to bring in FDI of Rs 3,500 crore in 2006, the finance ministry suppressed the figure to make the case that the telecom company was seeking clearance for getting only Rs 180 crore in foreign direct investment to avoid the matter being referred to the CCEA.
 
 As per rules applicable at the time, foreign investment of up to Rs 600 crore could be cleared by the finance minister through FIPB.
 
 The affidavit is part of a status report ED has filed in the SC on its investigation in the Aircel-Maxis case. The court is scheduled to hear the matter on Friday.
 
 ED has alleged that the former FM's son,  , was paid Rs 26 lakh (by the seller of the equity shares of Aircel Ltd to Maxis) on April 11, 2006, for FIPB approval granted to Aircel.
 
 ED's affidavit places Chidambaram at the Centre of the intensifying investigation into the alleged FIPB scam. Significantly, statements made by officials under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the law under which the matter is being probed, will be admissible as evidence in court.
 
 The ED affidavit further claimed that as part of its probe, it screened 2,721 FIPB files pertaining to the period between May 2004 and 2009 and August 2012 and May 2014, before focusing on 54 of those which concerned approvals by Chidambaram for FDI, including in the Aircel case.
 
 The first series of questioning of FIPB officials by ED was completed between July and October 2016. 
 
 Ram Sharan, the then under secretary in FIPB, and Deepak Singh, the then deputy secretary, were extensively questioned and their statements recorded. 
 
 The FIPB officials, according to the affidavit, said that "although the investment was of an amount of $800 million (over Rs 3,500 crore) and came under purview of CCEA, but as a part of conspiracy, the proposal was wrongly projected as being an investment of Rs 180 crore only which was approved by the then finance minister, even though the FM was not competent to grant approval".
 
 Barely 20 days after granting approval to Aircel, Rs 26 lakh was paid by ATVL (seller of the equity shares of Aircel Ltd to Maxis) on April 11, 2006, to a Chennai-based company, Advantage Strategic Consulting Pvt Ltd (ASCPL).
 
 "The payment of ATVL to ASCPL was in close proximity to the FIPB approval on March 20, 2006, and investigation revealed that ASCPL was controlled by Karti Chidambaram, son of P Chidambaram, the then FM who had accorded FIPB approval to the Aircel-Maxis FDI, even though it was not within his power and was in the competence of CCEA," the affidavit said.
 
 Documents and other evidence seized during three searches since 2015 on Karti, his associates and companies "show that Karti P Chidambaram controlled the affairs of his companies through S Bhaskararaman and that ASCPL was set up in the name of the wife and brother-in-law of S Bhaskararaman for receiving illegal gratification by Karti P Chidambaram for approvals in the ministry of finance".
 
 The ED further said, "The above material reveals, inter alia, that from the very beginning Karti P Chidambaram controlled ASCPL even though he was not shown as owner in the records of ASCPL. He referred people/companies to S Bhaskararaman and ASCPL and its subsidiaries for receiving payments."
 
 Bhaskararaman, Karti's chartered accountant who was recently arrested by the ED, was also managing the affairs of Chess Management Services Pvt Ltd and other companies on behalf of Karti, the ED affidavit said.
 
 
 
