MADURAI: The body of a 21-year-old dalit woman, who allegedly committed suicide after a usurer abducted her mother and children for non-payment of loan, was cremated after the police altered the earlier FIR and registered a case under the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.

 Kondeeswari, wife of Ganeshan of   in   in   district, had taken a loan through the women’s self-help group in which she was a member. Her husband Ganeshan, who is employed in a hotel in Coimbatore, had taken the responsibility to repay the money loaned by a woman usurer named Veerayee, who was known for her exorbitant interest rates. However, they defaulted on the repayment for two consecutive months. “ Veerayee came to the woman’s house with her goons and demanded that she repay her in time. She also abused her in the name of her caste,’’ said CPM Sivaganga district secretary Kandasamy.
 
 Fearing for her life,   had taken her two children,  , 4 and Priyanka, 2, and gone to stay with her mother Nagammal, who lived in   near her village. On Wednesday, Veerayee went to Nagammal’s house and dragged her as well as the two children out of their house brutally. Later, she brought them in an autorickshaw to Kombukaranendhal and kept them locked in a room.
 
 When Kondeeswari, who had gone out, returned, she found her children and mother missing. When she called her mother on her phone, it was answered by Veerayee who demanded that she repay the money failing which she threatened to kill her family. Kondeeswari hanged herself in her mother’s house on Thursday and her body was taken to the Manamadurai government hospital for postmortem.
 
 Police registered a case under Sec 174 of CrPc, but the local people and CPM workers refused to receive the body until the usurer was arrested and a case registered under the SC/ ST Prevention of Atrocities Act. An inconsolable Nagammal told TOI that Veerayee had hit her with slippers and dragged the two frightened children into an autorickshaw and locked them in a house.
 
 
 
