CHANDIGARH: Following resentment over the education department’s proposal on quashing recruitments done during 2015-16 following paper leak, hundreds of teachers on Tuesday held a protest rally in Sector 25 ground.

 The main grouse of the teachers was that while an inquiry had found nothing against hundreds of teachers, then why they were still being punished.
 
 A survey was also conducted on 427 trained graduate teachers ( ), junior basic teachers ( ) and nursery trained teachers ( ) to know their professional, economic and social stability and highlight before administration the consequences of quashing of recruitments.
 
 Going by the survey done by core committee of newly recruited teachers whose future is at stake 58% will not get any government job if relieved. As per the survey, there are 48% such teachers who had left their government jobs to join as teachers in Chandigarh and most of the teachers who joined government schools in 2015 have cleared various teacher eligibility tests, including PhD, UGC Net and JRF.
 
 The survey further reveals that 33% teachers are already under liability of bank loans on present jobs while 15% teachers refused offers of government jobs in last three years. This was stated by Sarabjit Singh, a member of the core committee. He had scored fourth rank in the exam held in 2015 and he had also taken recruitment test in 2009. “In 2009 the criteria was changed and I could not get a place. This time also I got fourth rank while my wife could not clear the exam. My mother has cancer and is being treated in Chandigarh which is why I chose teaching. I was already working as an assistant professor in Punjab. I have joined special investigation team six times and still for no fault of mine I will be at the receiving end,” he said.
 
 During the mass protest rally by the teachers under the banner of Joint Action Committee of Teachers shared with TOI how they left their previous jobs for teaching.
 
 Rekha Rani, a teacher from Government High School at Daddu Majra, said without having proof against hundreds of teachers, department has declared us at fault. “I have cleared more than 12 eligibility tests and have many other qualifications. Why is the department not considering our previous records? This is unfair on part of the UT administration. Most of us are now overage and will not get a government job,” she said.
 
 “I was selected in other government jobs before and after joining the UT  , but I did not opt for the same as I was selected here and now this decision will spoil our entire life. Punish the guilty not everyone who was selected,” said Kirti Diwedi, a teacher at government middle school, Sector 8.
 
 Manju Pawar, a teacher from government high school, DMV, was selected in Haryana Police, but she preferred teaching. “For females teaching is the best profession and considering the same I chose it and stopped searching for jobs thereafter. It is illegal to make someone suffer without proving them guilty.”
 
