NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that the Indian cricket team's landmark ODI series win in South Africa has further punctuated their force in limited-overs cricket, and that the margin of victories puts them on the right course for the 2019 ICC World Cup. 

 
 
 
 
 Virat Kohli's team became the first from India to win a series on South African soil, taking the top spot in the ICC ODI Championship from the hosts with commanding wins: by six wickets, nine wickets, 124 runs and 73 runs. In his column for TOI, Srikkanth applauded the team's effort and hoped they rounded out the series on Friday with another commanding win. 
 
 "Winning a bilateral series for the first time in South Africa is no easy feat. India is only the second team (Australia, twice) to beat the African nation in a five-match ODI series in their own den. This stat alone should put things in perspective. They are not an easy team to beat at home and full credit to the Indian team for coming back strongly after that rare defeat at the Wanderers," wrote the 58-year-old. 
 
 "A good last game and success in the T20 series to follow, will rightly perch the Indian team right at the top in terms of confidence for the tougher assignments in future and the World Cup in particular. This result has proved beyond doubt that India has all the ammunition to be successful in all conditions in this format. I am sure this is the start of many good things to come for this confident, young and fit Indian side."
 
 
 
 
 In Srikkanth's estimation, India's series win was justification of their tag as the top-ranked ODI team. 
 
 "What has stood out in the series has been the manner in which the wins have been secured. The margins have been massive and there has been little scope for SA to even be in the game. This series win also clearly showed who the World No.1 in this format really is. To dislodge the current toppers with such authority augurs well for Indian cricket. At this stage India should not let go of the intensity as a 5-1 score line sounds much sweeter than 4-2," he wrote. 
 
 According to Srikanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs, the return to some sort of form in the fifth ODI by  , after scores of 20, 15, 0 and 5, underlined the impact that he has in ODI cricket. 
 
 "As usual practice in this series, this win also threw a few positives for  . It was vital for Rohit Sharma to find some form. He is one of the better white-ball batsmen going around the world at the moment and his form is crucial to India's chances in Australia and England," wrote Srikkanth. "If both   and Rohit are in form, they are easily the toughest opening pair to bowl to in world cricket. Add the left-right combination with Virat to follow, and India should be waiting for games to start."
 
