PUNE: The relatives of a 42-year-old brain-dead patient donated his vital organs, thus, benefiting three people, including two sisters, suffering from end-stage kidney and liver diseases on Wednesday.

 The donor, an electrician from Solapur, suffered hypertension-induced cerebral haemorrhage on March 11. He was rushed to a private hospital in   and later shifted to Yashodhara Superspeciality Hospital in Solapur for higher medical management.
 
  
  
 “The brain damage was extensive. All our efforts to revive him failed. The man was declared brain-dead on March 12,” surgeon Vijay   of the Yashodhara Superspeciality Hospital told TOI.
 
 One of his relatives works as a doctor with the hospital. “He counselled the family members for organ donation, following which they gave their consent for it,” he said.
 
 After the family’s consent, the hospital authorities informed the   (ZTCC), Pune region, that oversees organ allocation as per the norms. “The man’s kidneys were allocated to two sisters, aged 42 and 48 years, undergoing treatment at a hospital in Solapur. His liver was allocated to a 50-year-old patient enrolled with the Ruby Hall Clinic,” Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator, ZTCC, said.
 
 Shivpuje with nephrologist Basavraj Kolur, urologists   and Vitthal Krishna, nephrologist Neelrohit Paike, vascular surgeon   and anaesthetists Manjiri Deshpande and Rahul Swami carried out the kidney transplants on both the sisters simultaneously.
 
 The sisters hail from Pandharpur. “Both the sisters got married to two brothers on the same day. They were diagnosed with kidney failure one after another almost during the same period. It is such a coincidence that both of them have undergone the transplant simultaneously,” Shivpuje said.
 
 Green corridor
 
 The donated liver was transported from Solapur to Pune via a green corridor on Wednesday afternoon. “The recipient of the liver had been suffering from liver cirrhosis for the last six years. The surgery has been successful,” Ruby Hall's liver transplant physician Sheetal Mahajani-Dhadphale said.
 
 
