MUMBAI: Long-distance running is all about pushing your body to the limits, over and over again. More often than not, you develop a strong bond with your running companions. They are your rivals, yes, but the fight is always with yourself.

 
 After training with a specific group of people for more than a couple of years, it’s bound to be difficult if you’re suddenly cut away from them. That’s the case of  , who’ll be running the Mumbai   (42kms) on Sunday.
 
 After a poor performance at the Rio Olympics (he finished 84th) due to a thigh injury, Rawat wasn’t included in the national camp for the preparation of this year’s Commonwealth and Asian Games as the   (AFI) felt that his performances were not up to the mark.
 
 As a result, the 31-year-old had to recover and then train in Ooty, in order to compete at the highest level again. Being separated from his usual companions coupled with the backlash he received on
 
 Twitter after his poor showing in Rio made Rawat go into social media ‘hiding’ for a little more than two months.
 
 “I just switched everything off and focused on recovering,” he said on Saturday. “The messages that people sent me were discouraging so I wanted to shut off all the negative things. Only when my thigh was almost healed and I was about to start running again, did I come back on Twitter,” he added.
 
 He returned from injury in some style. In November last year, he participated and won the Delhi Half Marathon with a timing of 1:03:53, also his personal best. And he’s raring to go on Sunday which will be his first marathon since recovering from the injury.
 
 “If I’m able to replicate my half marathon form, I should be able to win this race and set a course record,” he said, rather confidently.
 
 Rawat also is excited at the fact that the Indian men, for the first time, will have an international pacesetter.
 
 “Having an international pacesetter will definitely raise our level. We’ve know how much we’ve improved when we’ve ran with pace-setters. Hopefully it helps us to improve our personal best,” he said.
 
