CHANDIGARH: No streetlights on the outside stretch of the main gate of the residential society  , located on a road stemming from VIP Road, Zirakpur near  , have been bothering the residents for quite some time now. 

 The stretch beginning from the Milton Towers, from the mouth of the road, till the gate of the apartment complex is completely devoid of streetlights and has, thus, become an issue of grave concern for the residents. The entire 300-400 metre stretch remains completely bathed in darkness after sunset and has gotten the residents more vulnerable to become victim to crime and attacks by stray dogs in the locality. A field, located right opposite to the society, along with several vacant plots scattered nearby the residential area, has further deepened the risk of unknown, illegal activity along with the fear of isolation.
 
 Talking to TOI, Vijendra Kamboj, a resident of Kiran Apartments said, "I have been living in this society for about five years now, but no streetlight have come up anywhere around this place till now. The lack of streetlights has made the situation worse for the female residents, who feel unsafe to venture out of the apartments after dark."
 
 The society, which is not that old in the urban township, has apartments in the 'Ground + 2' format and is currently occupied by twelve to fourteen families. As many as 24 flats are available in the society. "The population is sparse within the society as well, because many plots are still vacant," he added.
 
 Many residents, also, complained about a nearly constant presence of unidentified men, other anti-social elements on the road every evening. Many of them also accused them of indulging into drinking   in the veil of darkness as well.
 
 "We need streetlights here as soon as possible because their absence is affecting our everyday lives. We have been complaining since five years now, but nothing has been done so far," said another resident of the society.
 
 According to them, even the road outside of the society was recarpeted just last month, which was had remained unpaved for past five years.
 
 
