MOHALI: A delegation of World Wide Immigration Consultancy Services (WWICS), led by director Rajiv Bajaj and advocate Raman Walia, questioned the credibility of Mohali police and demanded a fair probe by CBI or some other independent agency in the case of CTU employee Abhishek Guleria’s death.

 They said this while addressing a conference at Chandigarh Press Club on Thursday. They claimed that Lt Colonel BS Sandhu, owner of WWICS and  , Nayagaon, is admitted to a hospital. They did not give the name of the hospital or the place it was located in.
 
 Pointing fingers at the working of the Punjab police, the delegation alleged that cops were targeting Sandhu’s family. “Earlier  , son of BS Sandhu, was implicated in abetment to suicide of Inderpreet Chadha. And now a SIT has been constituted to implicate BS Sandhu in death of Guleria. The post-mortem report has not ascertained murder and still Sandhu is being charged with Section 302 of the IPC, which is unjust,” said Bajaj.
 
 Inderpreet Singh, son of former Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president   who was booked for sexually harassing a woman principal, had allegedly shot himself dead with his licensed weapon in Amritsar in January this year.
 
 Walia said police have named Sandhu under Section 302 on the statement of the three arrested employees of Forest Hill Golf and Country Club Resort without recording their statements under Section 164 of the CrPC.
 
 Walia said, “We demand a fair probe from either CBI or any independent agency headed by a retired DGP of Haryana or Himachal police. The victim was neither known to any of our office-bearers nor was he employed with us at any juncture, directly or indirectly.”
 
 When asked that the police had charged BS Sandhu under Section 201 of the IPC for destruction of evidence by removing the body from the resort premises and dumping it on   highway, Bajaj said, “No one has seen the three employees taking the body out of the pond and then transporting it to Pinjore-Baddi road. It is a police story, not a reality.”
 
 Police have said that Sandhu had asked the employees to dump the body outside the jurisdiction of Mohali, whereas Sandhu is not even in town. After knowing this development, he got disturbed and is admitted to a hospital,” Bajaj said.
 
 “The police are allegedly defaming Sandhu family as they have got vast businesses here and overseas… they want to grab his properties,” alleged Bajaj.
 
 The delegation said the three arrested accused, Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh and Tarsem Chand, had the two vehicles at their disposal and they were the ones who know who fished out the body and why it was disposed of. Walia said, “Sandhu has nothing to do with this.”
 
 SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “Justice will be done. The statement of the accused will be recorded later under Section 164 of the CrPC as they are in police remand at present.”
 
 
 
