NAGPUR: A three-member Central team is set to arrive in the city for the   on February 26.

 The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has been preparing hard to undergo the litmus test once again with a view to improve its ranking after its dismal performance in the previous survey in 2017, where it got 137th rank in the country.
 
 This time, the civic body has left no stone unturned. NMC has already entrusted   for documentation. The team will visit various parts of the city on February 26, 27 and 28.
 
 A NMC senior official (sanitation) told TOI that the team will assess the city on various parameters. These include waste collection, sweeping and transportation of solid waste, processing and disposal of municipal solid waste, education and behavioural changes among city residents and capacity building procedures.
 
 According to NMC officials, the team on the first two days will carry out collection and verification of documents related to measures taken up on cleanliness drive in the city.
 
 The team will also gather information related to door-to-door collection of waste by Kanak Resources, GPS used to monitor vehicles carrying waste and other innovative measures and practices adopted by the civic body.
 
 “Markings of NMC may not improve due to irregular collection of door-to-door garbage by the private firm in many areas like Zingabai Takli, Nara, Nari etc. This forced the citizens to dump garbage in open spaces,” said Congress corporator Manoj Sangole.
 
 The team will also inspect documents related to cleanliness in residential and commercial areas, segregation of waste and garbage at source, daily cleaning, sanitation and hygiene facilities on day one.
 
 Similarly, the team will check whether public toilets are gender-friendly, do they get power supply and are they connected with onsite safe disposal system, does it carry IEC (Information, Education and Communication) messages and others.
 
 During their direct observation, the team will also check whether the commercial places are clean, besides cleanliness in vegetable and meat markets, at Nagpur Railway Station, MSRTC bus stops at Ganeshpeth and other important centres.
 
 “Among all the parameters, citizen participation will again play the most important role as 35% marks from the 4,000-mark survey will be based on the citizen feedback,” the officer said.
 
 
