NAGPUR: The   ( ) has now made   accreditation a must for institutes offering distance learning courses as well as open universities.

 The apex body had notified Open and Distance Learning Regulations 2017 and invited applications from eligible higher educational institutions (HEIs) for recognition of their distance learning programmes for the academic session 2018. Later, the UGC amended the regulation and introduced the NAAC criteria for HEIs to seek approval for distance learning courses.
 
 Now, HEIs have been asked to apply afresh for recognition of open and distance learning courses.
 
 HEIs with valid accreditation of NAAC with minimum CGPA of 3.26 on a 4-point scale and have completed five years of existence are eligible to apply. The new clause is not applicable to open universities till they become eligible for NAAC accreditation. But, the apex body clarified that it shall be mandatory for open universities to seek NAAC rating within one year of their becoming eligible for the same.
 
 The move will not have any immediate impact on HEIs which were given permission by UGC to offer open and distance learning courses for 2017-18. But, these HEIs too would need to seek fresh recognition as well as apply for   assessment with three months from the next academic session.
 
  expressed concern over the UGC’s decision and suggested that the regulator allow state and central universities to offer distance learning courses.
 
 “Currently, several private institutions are running the postal courses by claiming that they are UGC recognized. At present, UGC don’t have a mechanism in place to check them and such institutions can easily manage the NAAC,” the forum’s president   said.
 
 He added that the distance learning centres must be set up at existing universities (state and central).
 
 “The biggest advantage of distance learning should be exclusive for working people who are not able to attend classes in regular mode,” said the forum’s vice president Bhupesh Mude.
 
 
