The green coconut trees and groves in Trichy district, which were a treat to the eye, look dry and wilted as several trees have withered due to the unprecedented drought that hit the state in 2016. Even the trees that line along the Cauvery River bank sport a pathetic look with headless stems poking out owing to the indiscriminate sand mining, which had depleted the groundwater level. Farmers lament they lost their steady income because of the loss of crop and have appealed to the government to disburse immediate assistance. For a regular income, farmers have to rely on alternative crops like greens, vegetables and coconut. Unlike other crops, coconut would bear fruits to the farmers throughout the year. However, due to the severe drought, a large number of coconut trees have withered. More than 20% of trees were affected within a year, farmers said.  Most of the trees that have withered were along the banks of the Cauvery in Trichy. Indiscriminate illegal sand mining have resulted in the crop loss, alleged state president of the Desiya, Thenninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam P Ayyakannu. "The trees, which are being raised on the banks of the rivers, would not have deep roots as they do not strain much to get water. So, when there is no water, it will easily wilt and that has happened along the river basin when the groundwater level was depleted. Illegal sand mining not only affected paddy it ruined everything safeguarding the life of farmers", he alleged. He further said that the government had fixed Rs150 for a coconut tree as compensation. However, farmers had to spend Rs250 for felling and removing a withered tree, Ayyakannu said. "So, the government should increase the assistance to Rs500 at least", he added. District secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to the CPI Ayilai Sivasuriyan said most of the affected areas in Trichy were Musiri, Thottiam, Thiruengoimalai and Thuvarankurichi. The district administration had already completed the enumeration and they hope it would speed up the process of disbursing the compensation immediately, he said. When contacted, joint director of agriculture S M Uduman Mohideen said the report on total damage of coconut trees have been sent to the government and soon the compensation would be disbursed to all the eligible farmers, he said.