KANNUR: Pariyaram Medical College in the district, which has been taken over by the government, will be developed into a centre of excellence (CoE) and research centre, health minister   has said.

 Formally announcing the government takeover of the medical college, which had been functioning in the cooperative sector, at a special function in the   campus on Friday, she also said though our medical colleges excel in treatment, they lag behind when it comes to research.
 
 The PMCH, which will be temporarily under the   with district collector as chairman and eminent doctors VG Pradeep Kumar and C Ravindran as members, will later be transferred to a government-controlled society, and run as an autonomous institution, said the minister. This means the medical college will not be functioning as a fully government controlled one like Kozhikode or Thiruvananthapuram medical colleges.
 
 Announcing the takeover, the health minister said the government wants to lift the medical colleges in the State to institutions with world ranking and PMCH should also be developed into a world renowned one.
 
 The medical colleges in the State have excellent faculty, but in order to reach global standards all sections should improve and the patients should get better facilities in the medical colleges compared to now, she said.
 
 The State government has already sanctioned Rs 717 crore for the implementation of the master plan of Thiruvananthapuram Medical College while Rs 368 crore have been sanctioned for  , said the minister, adding that the master plans are being prepared to improve other medical colleges as well.
 
 The minister, who said the government has taken over the liabilities of the PMCH, added that a five-member committee has been formed to study various issues pertaining to the medical college and it is expected to submit the report within one month. A Karunya Pharmacy will also be opened in PMCH when the space is made available.
 
 Meanwhile, an art gallery has also been opened in the PMCH with the cooperation of the  . The health minister formally inaugurated the gallery. With this, PMCH has become the first such medical college in the State, with an art gallery.
 
 
