HYDERABAD: Despite being one of the most rapidly developing areas in Cyberabad,   still lags behind in basic road infrastructure. And this is starkly visible along the   road, which lacks enough footpath space for pedestrians. While there are patches of side-walks and greenery, at many places the footpaths are either broken or completely missing.

 
 Irked by the lack of attention to this basic amenity,
 
 employees working in IT companies in the area say how there is an immediate need for more pedestrian infrastructure such as continuous, unbroken footpaths and foot-over-bridges. They rue how crossing the road has now become a time-consuming and risky affair for professionals working and residing there.
 
 “It is particularly difficult to cross the road at the Gachibowli and Financial District signals as there is no time earmarked for pedestrians at the junctions. By the time I cross one side of the road, the signal turns green for the oncoming traffic from the other side making it a risky affair. Also, on the Gachibowli-Financial District road, fast-moving vehicles are least bothered about pedestrians as they want to rush towards the ‘free left’ leading to the   road,” complained one commuter.
 
 Making matters worse, locals say how scores of motorists often park their vehicles either along the side of the roads (that have no footpaths), or right on the existing footpaths — especially at the IIIT junction.
 
 “There is a need for more foot-over-bridges in the IT hub. The only one in front of   is not sufficient. Vehicles move so fast during peak hours that it becomes impossible to cross over to the side without the fear of being run over. Sometimes one has to wait for at least 10 minutes before crossing”, said   A, an IT employee.  , a resident of   in Gachibowli pointed out how the manifold increase in traffic in the area is now making pedestrians feel unsafe. “Proper footpaths are muchneeded since the traffic during peak office hours is manifold and some of us who walk a certain distance on the side of roads feel very vulnerable and are at a high risk of getting involved in accidents,” said Rao.
 
