JAIPUR: It appears that the efforts of Bharatpur police to teach people to be away from the OLX advertisements coming from areas like Deeg and Kaman promising to sell cars and other things are insufficient.

 In a yet another case, a man from Hyderabad was cheated by the gangs of Mewat in the pretext of inviting him to sell a car and later cheating him nearly Rs 1.5 lakh. 
 
 With the increased cases of cheating and robbery on pretext of selling various commodities varying from car to mini bus through OLX advertisements, the Bharatpur police last month had initiated a massive awareness programme to educate people on these malpractices.
 
 Station House Officers (SHOs) concerned were asked to display signboards urging people to be beware of cons and police will also write to the OLX to display the numbers of the online website. 
 
 “The victim from Hyderabad saw an advertisement on OLX of a car. He wished to buy it and called up the buyer. The buyer from Kaman, Bharatpur asked him to visit the town. After he arrived, he was asked to deposit Rs 1.50 lakh amount in the bank to get the delivery of the car. After he transferred the money, the buyers flee from the scene,” said a senior police officer of Pahadi police station on Tuesday. 
 
 According to police, in 2017, at least 30 such cases were witnessed where people from various parts of India visited areas including Kaman, Deeg, Pahari and Jurhera dominated by the Meos after seeing various billboards. After they visited these places they were robbed. The seller whose number were put on the OLX site asked the customers to visit their village and after latter visited they were cheated. 
 
 Modus operandi - The modus operandi of the gang cleared that these conmen post advertisements to sell with their contact numbers. After the interested parties contact them and reach the addresses given, they are cheated or robbed. Likewise, in a few cases some requirements of event managers were posted online. In one particular case an event manager of Delhi was asked to organise a wedding at Pahari village. He was asked to visit the spot and see the area for tents and other set ups. After he visited he was robbed at gunpoint and was threatened not to lodge any police case. 
 
 
