AHMEDABAD: Who will take control of Asaram’s Rs 10,000 crore empire? The empire is spread across India and has two bases in the US. As uncertainty looms over the multi-crore Asaram Trust — with Asaram and his son Narayan Sai in jail — all eyes are now on  ,   who runs her own spiritual initiative called ‘Laksh Prerna Divine Foundation’. Her office is near Asaram’s Motera ashram. Asaram is lodged in Jodhpur jail in Rajasthan while Narayan is incarcerated in Lajpore jail in Surat.

  
  The official spokesperson of Asaram, Neelam Dubey — a former journalist — said that about 15 years ago, Asaram had told Bharti and Narayan to create their own paths. “This does not mean that the children have parted ways with Bapu,” Dubey said. “They visited Bapu during satsangs to pay their obeisance and celebrated the Matru-Pitru Pujan Diwas.”
 
 During a brief interaction with the press outside a Gandhinagar court recently, Bharti was asked if she felt her family members were being targeted. She immediately distanced herself from her father and brother. “Why don’t you ask about my work?” she said. “My organization has been functioning separately from Asaram Bapu’s ashrams. I disassociated myself from the trust 16-17 years ago. Our activities are different as well.” Till his arrest in 2013, Asaram ran 233 large and 169 small ashrams; 40 schools; a printing press; and an ayurveda unit.
 
 A close look at Bharti’s satsangs — many of which are posted on social media — shows her dressed in white, decked in flowers, and wearing decorated yellow and white turbans. She sings and dances just like Asaram and even emulates his Holi celebrations, at which 9,000 litres of coloured water is sprayed on devotees. Her website doesn’t feature the images of Asaram or Narayan. But she is seen in one picture wishing her mother Laxmi Maiyya on her birthday. Her profile pictures show her taking long walks in jungles and visiting camps held in tribal areas and far-flung places of Gujarat.
 
 Bharti’s website says: “Shriji had miraculous experiences during her childhood — like stopping rain when she was playing, controlling breath for seven minutes, doing 80 pranayams in a single day, being in a meditative state and leaving the natural childhood playfulness, and having darshans of deities and being able to converse with them.” 
 
 Dubey said: “Bhartiji runs her own shibirs (camps) and takes no financial help from Bapuji. The last shibir was held on the banks of the Narmada five months ago.” 
 
 Laxmi and Bharti are co-accused in the rape case filed in Ahmedabad against Asaram by a Surat victim. A senior police official said: “Bharti had allegedly escorted the rape survivor to Asaram, while Laxmi did not allow her to leave the ashram.” Another key Asaram’s confidante in Ahmedabad, Uday Sangani, as well as Dubey confirmed that Laxmi and Bharti have no role in running of the ashram. “Ashrams and other institutions are run by administrators or ‘sanchalaks’ appointed by Bapuji,” Dubey said.
 
 
