NASHIK: Eight more job aspirants from Vishakhapatnam on Friday approached the Pachora police in Jalgaon to lodge complaints in the fake army job racket.

 They claimed that the main suspect — Hussaindin Chand Khan — an   resident, had taken Rs 29.5 lakh from them last year on the promise of getting them a job in the army. Subsequently, the suspect had returned Rs 4.5 lakh to them and the remaining Rs 25 lakh was still unpaid.
 
 Khan is an army deserter, against whom a cheating case is registered at the city’s   police station is currently in custody of the Pachora police station in Jalgaon. Khan allegedly cheated hundreds of people of crores of rupees on the promise of an army job.
 
 A senior police officer of the Nashik IG Range said the racket’s reach could get bigger as more people were coming forward as victims. Apart from more than 300 people who rushed to the Pachora police to complain about cheating on Friday, police are of the opinion that there may be 150 more that have lodged complaints at different police stations. The police said that the army job scam amount could go beyond Rs 10 crore.
 
 V K Choubey, IG (special) of  , said, “Considering that the case has is widespread, the investigation is being done under the supervision of additional SP of Jalgaon Prashant Bachhav. Apart from a cheating case registered against the main suspect at the Pachora police station, cases are also registered against him at the Jamner, Chalisgaon and Pahur police stations of Jalgaon. There is a possibility that more people could come forward to lodge complaints over time.”
 
 Jalgaon police said that they were also sending a team to Pune to check Khan’s army background. According to the suspect, he was last posted in Pune. He took leave from duty in January 2017 and never rejoined.
 
 On Thursday, Kalwan resident   lodged a compalint with the Indiranagar police against Imran Khan and Hussaindin Chand Khan stating that he and his friends and relatives were cheated to the tune of Rs 68 lakh. Following this, over 50 people came to lodge complaints against the two, after which the job scam amount in Nashik reached approximately Rs 2.59 crore.
 
 In the meantime, while Imran Khan is still at large, the police came to know that Hussaindin Chand Khan was arrested by Jalgaon’s Pachora police, where nearly 300 people complained of being cheated of over Rs 7 crore.
 
 Khan was arrested by the Pachora police on February 24 and is currently in their custody till March 8. His wife and son were also arrested earlier and later sent to judicial custody. After the custody of Pachora police, the suspect will then be taken into police custody by other police stations where offences against him are registered.
 
 
