Surat: The wild invasive species ‘water hyacinth’ from the upstream of Tapi river has engulfed the ponds and lakes in the Diamond City. Environmental activists have come to a consensus that the water hyacinth have invaded the lakes via the network of irrigation canals from Tapi river flowing in the nearby areas. The hyacinth growth is witnessed from the last couple of months and it has spread drastically, due to a lack of natural predators, abundance of space, conducive temperature and abundant nutrients. In one such incident, the Gavier Lake, located near Magdalla has been infested due to the wild growth of the water hyacinth in the last couple of months. The volunteers of Nature Club Surat (NCS), which manages the Gavier lake known as the abode of the migratory birds, have started cleaning up the lake with the help of the ONGC and the students from the Sarvajanik College of Engineering and Technology (SCET).  NCS volunteers said that all the water bodies and lakes in the city are connected by canal. At Gavier Lake, the supply of fresh water is always there when the irrigation water is released in the nearby canal.  Volunteer of NCS, Ashish Vakil told TOI, “Water hyacinth covers major expanse of the lake, which is putting the aquatic life of the lake and migratory birds at risk. We have taken up a gigantic work to clean up the lake of the most noxious aquatic weeds with the sponsorship of ONGC and voluntary support from the SCET students.”  Apart from migratory birds, the lakes are home to the smooth-coated Otters. After they disappeared one-and-a-half-decade ago from the water bodies in and around the city, a group of 15-20 otters was spotted for the first time near Gavier lake on the Surat-Dumas road in 2013.  Smooth-coated otters, as aquatic predator at the top of food chain and good indicator species for healthy riverine ecosystem. They are known to live semi-aquatic life.  NCS volunteer Krunal Trivedi who studied the otters said, “Water hyacinth is a major threat to the healthy riverine ecosystem, which is conducive to the otters, migratory birds and fish in the lakes. We fear that the infestation of the lakes may force the otters to migrate to other safer spots.” The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC), however, started the cleaning of the lakes and creeks under the Sujalam Sufalam Jal Yojana. But, the task of cleaning the lakes seems enormous until May 31. 