CHANDIGARH: More trouble is brewing for Delhi’s Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA Surender Singh aka Commandoin a fake degree case. The Haryana government has approached the   and Haryana high court seeking cancellation of the   legislator’s anticipatory bail.

 According to Haryana government’s plea, Singh’s custodial interrogation is needed to know the origin and source of the forged degree he obtained. Singh, a former military man who has also served in the elite  , had obtained the post of vocational teacher (security) at the government senior secondary school at   on the basis of a fake degree.
 
 Singh was booked by the Haryana police on July 29, 2016, at Jhajjar for cheating, and under sections of the IPC relating to forgery and fabrication of documents.
 
 
 
 
 The complaint against Surender Singh was filed by Karan Singh Tanwar, BJP’s former Delhi Cantonment MLA. Justice   of the high court has issued notice to Singh, seeking his response on Haryana’s contentions by March 21. The notice was issued on February 17.
 
 Haryana has challenged an August 24, 2016, order through which the district and sessions judge of Jhajjar granted anticipatory bail to Singh.
 
 Haryana has submitted that the district and sessions judge of Jhajjar has failed to consider the fact that Singh did not meet the requisite educational criterion for the vocational teacher (security) post and had secured the job by producing fabricated documents.
 
 “The session judge has also failed to consider the fact that the degree obtained by the accused has been found to be forged and fabricated by the investigating agency and the same is the basis on which the accused has managed to secure appointment in Haryana, thus the instant case requires custodial interrogation of the accused,” the state has submitted.
 
 It has also been contended that the session judge failed to consider the letter, issued on May 5, 2015, by the Sikkim government which clarified that EILM University was allowed to run only three courses – B A (hospitality & tourism), BCA and MBA in the distance learning mode only for one year – 2009-2010.
 
 “Thus the accused had forged and fabricated the degree of BA which was not one of the courses which were allowed and permitted to be run by the EILM university,” state has argued.
 
