Violence against couples on the basis of caste, faith and region happens across the country, but such incidents in the southern states, especially in  , often doesn't get national attention. While khap panchayats are dreaded, katta panchayats of TN are more dangerous, believes  , founder and chairman of Delhi-based NGO,  , that helps inter-caste and inter-faith couples caught in the crossfire of warring families. In an interview with Arpita Bose, ahead of Valentine’s Day, Sachdev talks about the challenges of working in south India

 Do you get more calls on Valentine’s Day?
 
 Every day is Valentine’s Day for lovers in distress and under the threat of separation, violence and even killing. We mostly get calls from couples who are being threatened or illegally detained by parents in the name of ‘honour’.
 
 What do you do on receiving a distress call?
 
 Once we get a call on our helpline we ask the caller to email scanned copies of age and address proofs of the couple to us for verification. Following this, the action plan is formulated depending on each case. In cases of illegal detention and violence by parents or society, lawful course is taken up for the rescue.
 
 What kind of presence do you have in south India?
 
 We have a large number of volunteers in all the six states of south India and generally get between 50 to 100 calls and emails a day. Anyone can volunteer with us by filling up a form on our website www.lovecommandos.org. 
 
 How would you assess the situation in Tamil Nadu?
 
 The existence of katta panchayats in Tamil Nadu is much more dangerous than khaps in the north. It is ironical that lovers are attacked in a state where lovey-dovey posters of filmstars turned politicians adorn the streets.
 
 The incidents of violence towards lovers are reported more from Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana than from northern states. As a large number of cases go unreported, there are no official statistics, but couples have horrific tales to tell.
 
 What are the main challenges of working in Tamil Nadu? 
 
 The main challenge is the mindset of people, especially in villages and lack of awareness among them on their constitutional rights. The second is the rich-poor divide. The rich are always able to influence the police and politicians towards their opposition to love marriages. There is a large number of instances of human rights violation by parents, but the state’s response is too slow. Social boycotting of lovers is rampant in TN. Small-time politicians often incite the community to ostracise couples. The situation may change, if such leaders are immediately arrested and brought to justice as per guidelines of the Supreme Court. Besides, the coverage of ‘honour’ crimes from Tamil Nadu is much less on national media. Incidents from villages and towns seldom generate a national debate.
 
 Unlike Kerala and Karnataka, Tamil Nadu hasn’t seen many incidents of aggression on Valentine’s Day …
 
 Harassment of couples is rampant in Kerala and Karnataka due to the prevalence of religious and caste fundamentalism there. But, we can’t say the same is absent in Tamil Nadu. The state witnesses violence against lovers all around the year. The apex court in Criminal Appeal 958/2011 had given detailed guidelines to promote inter-caste and inter religious marriages and directed for prosecution of people opposing such marriages. But, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry police are committing contempt of the Supreme Court’s standing directions almost every day. 
 
 SC recently warned khap panchayats against interfering in the affairs of two consenting adults. Do such judgments have an effect?
 
 Such tough steps by the court are commendable, but the court cannot ensure strict compliance and implementation. It is the responsibility of the political leadership, administration and the police who have been failing to do their duty. The Supreme Court had in the past given directions against community councils including the katta panchayats in TN and such kangaroo courts, but till date no participants of such kangaroo court have been arrested and brought to justice. The youth in Tamil Nadu should use social media to expose such kangaroo courts.
 
 
