Mangaluru/ Ballari: legislators, both incumbent and wannabe, are rushing to offer   to voters to woo them before the Election Commission (EC) announces the poll schedule and model code of conduct comes into force.

 On Friday, industrialist N Suryanarayana Reddy, former MLA and aspirant for the Congress party ticket from Ballari City, hosted a lunch for 20,000 supporters at the Kanavi Maramma Temple in Ballari under the banner of the N Surayanarayana Reddy Abhimanigala Balaga.
 
 The Ballari-Kampli Road was packed with vehicles through the day. For the meal, 108 sheep, 6 tonnes of firewood and over 30 quintals of rice were used while 30,000 half-litre drinking water bottles were given to guests.
 
 The shamiana was set up at a cost of Rs 5 lakh. A borewell of the temple was also repaired and a new submersible pump, electrical wiring and pipeline were fixed. Suryanarayana Reddy said: “My supporters made all the arrangements. I just came here today and participated in a special puja and prayed to the goddess for a Congress victory in all nine seats of Ballari district’’ 
 
 Elsewhere on the coast, a photograph and audio clip of Mangaluru City North MLA B A Mohiuddin Bava (Congress) distributing saris to women in his constituency has come in handy for his opponents. 
 
 The audio clip in Beary language, purportedly released on behalf of Bava, offers free return tickets to 700 voters working in Saudi Arabia during election. All they have to do is show their voter ID proof to a person in Dammam to get a ticket. “You will have to vote only for Mohiuddin Bava, not for Kateel,” the person says in the clip. 
 
 Denying this, Bava told TOI he has been distributing freebies to residents of his constituency every year on his birthday (March 15), but take responsibility for the audio clip. 
 
 Earlier this week, Chikkaballapur Congress MLA Dr K Sudhakar was in news after some women burnt saris, reportedly offered by his supporters, to express their anger.
 
  exhibits freebies
 
 The ruling Congress faced some embarrassment on Friday in the assembly when BJP MLA Vishveshwara Hegde Kageri hoodwinked the marshals and carried a bag with freebies being allegedly distributed by water resources minister M B Patil in his constituency in Vijayapura district.
 
 The bag also had the photograph of the minister who he described as ‘Adhunika Bhagiratha’. “See how voters are being wooed by the minister,’’ Kageri said, even as deputy speaker N H Shivashankar Reddy and health minister Ramesh Kumar took objection to it.
 
 Reddy said flaunting of of such things in the house is not allowed, Kumar said the house should not become a place to exhibit them. “Everybody distributes freebies during elections. It is not wrong. It becomes wrong when one gets caught,’’ he added on a lighter note.
 
 However, marshals prevented two other BJP members Satish Reddy and Arvind Bellad, from sneaking in with freebies. They stopped them at the entrance and took away the freebies.
 
 
