ZIRAKPUR: The   ground attached to Dhakoli’s residential area has risen from the dead and the smell of burning bodies is back to torment the people who made the mistake of buying plots nearby. The nearby villagers have started reusing the two funeral sheds.

 Before people bought these residential plots and moved into  , the builder and the civic authorities had assured them that cremations under these sheds were disallowed. The residents shared with a TOI team during its visit to the area that every month, three to four bodies from the nearby villages arrived at the cremation ground that is supposed to have been decommissioned. The funerals happen even at odd hours and ashes are thrown into the nullah flowing nearby.
 
 Residents said until the cremation ground was relocated, the civic authorities should post officials at the site to make a record of all the families who brought their dead to the place. Zirakpur Municipal Council president Kulwinder Sohi said: “By next week, the civic body will take a decision to shift this cremation ground to a place away from habitation. As and when the new cremation ground is ready, both these sheds will be shut and the villagers asked to use the new facility for funerals.”
 
 Unified resident welfare association (Urwa) president   said the major concern of the residents was that there was no record of the bodies cremated under these sheds, “so maybe the sheds are being misused by criminal elements to dispose of the bodies of murdered people”. Satish Sharma, president of the Guru   locality near the cremation ground, said: “The sheds are so close to the residential area that whenever a body is cremated under those, the pyre’s smell is carried into our homes and we are forced to shut our doors and windows.”
 
 The rural way of life is under constant threat as Chandigarh’s periphery witnesses rapid urbanisation. A fine example is a dispute between flat dwellers and villagers over a decade-old cremation ground in Dhakoli village.
 
 Even as the number of multi-storey residential complexes in Dhakoli increases, villagers do not want to give up part of their tradition for those who have only recently settled here. People living in these urban societies want the cremation ground to be relocated to the outer area of both these villages, close to the main road.
 
 Residents of Guru Nanak Nagar society situated opposite the cremation ground say the smell of burning flesh has made their life miserable but Dhakoli’s natives say they are emotionally attached to the cremation ground because they have used it for so many decades and there ancestors were cremated there.
 
 Apart from the villagers, people living in nearby areas such as the heavily populated Dashmesh Colony also burn the bodies of their deceased here. The sight of wailing widows and people mourninbg their dead makes house owners sink into depression. They have spent their lifetime of savings on buying a comfortable flat. They have asked for urgent attention of the civic authorities.
 
 
