PATIALA: A   special   court, which is also the designated court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases, on Tuesday, clubbed three enforcement case information reports (ECIRs) filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) and framed fresh charges against 13 accused, including Jagdish Singh Bhola, pertaining to the synthetic drugs trade.

 Taking up the ECIRs filed by the ED against the wrestler-turned-cop-turned-drug lord Bhola, his father   and Canadian NRI Sukhraj Singh Raja to investigate the violation of the PMLA following the busting of a drug racket being operated by Bhola, the court said as thew ECIRs were related to the crime committed by Bhola and his accomplices, all three should be clubbed as one and tried in the court under Section 4 of the PMLA Act. All accused pleaded not guilty in the case and claimed trial to prove innocence.
 
 Special prosecutor of the ED Jagjit Singh Sarao said if convicted, the accused in the ECIRs stand to be sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than three years but which may extend to seven years. Besides, the convicts were also liable to be fine, which may extend up to Rs 5 lakh, he said. Sarao said as per Section 24 of the PMLA Act, the onus to prove themselves not guilty was now on the accused.
 
 The   police had detected a multi-crore drug racket having national and international ramifications in which a number of FIRs were registered under the NDPS Act, along with various sections of the IPC and the Arms Act between 2013 and 2014.
 
 The police had also claimed to have made huge recoveries of various drugs, Rs 1.91 crore, besides some foreign currency pistols, cartridges and luxury vehicles from various accused. Consequent to these recoveries, the ED’s zonal office in   had filed multiple ECIRs in 2013 for investigating the violations of the PMLA Act of 2002 and incorporated the FIRs registered by the police. The latter had charge-sheeted several accused, including a former Akali minister Swaran Singh Phillaur and chief parliamentary secretary Avinash Chander.
 
 
