Mysuru: Chief minister   arrived in   segment less than 48 hours after the Election Commission announced the poll calendar for the Karnataka assembly elections. After having represented the   segment for the past 10 years, the CM has decided to shift to Chamundeshwari, which witnessed one of the most high-octane clashes in 2006, when Siddaramaiah sought re-election after resigning from the JD(S). Having reiterated that the 2018 polls will be his last, Siddaramaiah has been busy touring villages across the segment, as he seeks to enter the assembly for an eighth time.

 Siddaramaiah told the people that his election from Chamundeshwari would go a long way in helping him return as the CM of the state. Siddaramaiah is looking to become the first CM to return to office cince Ramakrishna Hgde in 1985. While Hegde had not completed his full term when he sought the people’s mandate in 1985, Siddaramaiah, who served in the former’s cabinet, has managed to last the full five-year term.
 
 For the CM, the decision to shift from Varuna, which he has held since delimitation since 2008, was not an easy one. Although speculations were rife that he might change his decision following the announcement of the poll calendar, his arrival in Chamundeshwari has put paid to these rumours. The CM has chalked out a four-day campaign in Chamundeshwari, before he kickstarts his campaign across the state.
 
 Reaffirming his intention to contest the polls from the segment, Siddaramaiah told the villagers in Chamundeshwari, “I will contest the elections from Chamundeshwari, and there is no going back on that decision.”
 
 It was in mod-2017 that the CM first voiced his interest to return to Chamundeshwari segment, which has sent him to the assembly five times, including the very first time in 1983. The decision was motivated by his desire to represent the segment, one that had played a vital role in shaping his political career, one last time. On October 3, 2017, launching his campaign at Hootagalli, he had made his intentions clear. “However, rumours spread by a few of his opponents sparked confusion over his decision, which Siddaramaiah has been trying to end with his campaign,” an aide of the CM told TOI.
 
 His choice having become clear, many of the CM’s followers have been approaching him at his home. “Local leaders from Chamundeshwari have called on him to discuss strategies,” said GV Seetharam, president of the Karnataka Bovi Development Corporation. “Local leaders have asked him to hold a meet at Doora village, which borders Nanjangud taluk on April 6,” Seetharam added.
 
 During his roadshow, Siddaramaiah explained to the voters the rationale behind his choice to switch to Varuna in 2008. “After delimitation, I chose to fight from Varuna because my hometown Siddaramanahundi was attached to the segment,” said the CM, breaking down as he made the announcement.
 
 However, Siddaramaiah said that he wanted to fight the last hustings in Chamundeshwari, which sent him to the assembly for the first time in 1983, and revived his prospects in the 2006 bypoll.
 
 “He was keen on fighting this election from Chamundeshwari, but incumbent MLA GT Devegowda’s jibes have only served to motivate him further. He is angry, and wants to settle a few political scores. This political fight has become a personal one for Siddaramaiah,” said an aide of the CM. “Siddaramaiah has taken it up as a challenge since Devegowda has been claiming that he promoted the CM in politics. Siddaramaiah has been working hard to regain his followers in the segment,” the aide added.
 
 On the other hand, Devegowda, who was a close associate of the CM before the latter joined the Congress, said that he was not too worried about his opponent. “Siddaramaiah is visiting Chamundeshwari after 12 years, while I have been in touch with the people regularly. The CM’s campaign has helped me, since people are approaching me and pledging their support,” Devegowda told TOI.
 
 Devegowda pointed out that the JD(S) was a strong presence in Chamundeshwari constituency. “JD(S) has won six zilla panchayat seats, and 20 taluk panchayat segments in Chamundeshwari, while the Congress has two ZP seats, and 10 TP segments,” he added.
 
 BJP, meanwhile, is yet to announce its candidate although there are three aspirants for the seat.
 
 Shades of 2006 bypoll
 
 The campaign in Chamundeshwari promises to be an intense battle, reminiscent of the 2006 bypoll, when Siddaramaiah scraped by with under 300 votes. In fact, BJP and JD(S) leaders had discussed the possibility of fielding a single candidate from Chamundeshwari to defeat Siddaramaiah.
 
 Devegowda trounced M Sathyanarayana of Congress in the 2013 elections at Chamundeshwari. Devegowda had approached Dalit leader and Karnataka BJP vice-president V Srinivasa Prasad, seeking the latter’s support to defeat the CM. Adagooru H Vishwanath, who joined the JD(S) after falling out with the CM, too conferred with Prasad.
 
 After being dropped from the state cabinet in June last year, Prasad quit the Congress to join the BJP, accusing the CM of pushing him out of the party. Prasad, meanwhile, has said that he woill work towards ensuring Siddaramaiah,s defeat to avenge the bypoll defeat in Nanjangud.
 
 While Prasad had fallen out with Siddaramaiah after he was dropped from the cabinet in June 2016, Vishwanath quit the party accusing Siddaramaiah of pushing him out of the party. Prasad has said he will focus on defeating Siddaramaiah to avenge his defeat in Nanjangud by-poll in April 2017.
 
 In the 2006 bypoll held after HD Kumaraswamy became the chief minister at the head of the JD(S)-BJP alliance, the saffron party decided against fielding a candidate against Siddaramaiah, who fought the election on a Congress ticket. Determined to defeat Siddaramaiah, Kumaraswamy toured across the segment, and even started the ‘village stay’ programme. JD(S) fielded the political greenhorn Shivabasappa, which meant that the fight was subsequently reduced to a battle between Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah. Both Shivabasappa and Siddaramaiah polled more than 1.15 lakh votes, with the other candidates in the fray cumulatively accounting for less than 1% of the vote. In what was an extremely tight contest, Siddaramaiah emerged victorious by 257 votes – an victory that marked the start of his second innings in politics, a fact that he has repeated several times over in the course of his campaign in Chamundeshwari.
 
 
