PATNA: India’s two most reputed centres of film and television education will conduct an admission seminar in the state for the first time for the academic session in 2018. 

 In Patna, the seminar would be held on January 16 at Bal Bhawan ‘Kilkari’ at Rajendra Nagar from 12 noon to 2pm. Milind  , a faculty of Film and Television Institute of India (FTII) Pune, accompanied by Aseem Sinha,   alumnus, will conduct the seminar, a press release from the Press Information Bureau said.
 
 Candidates applying for admission to FTII and   Film and Television Institute (SRFTI), Kolkata, need to go through a multi-stage selection process. The first stage in this selection process is an all-India written examination called the Joint Entrance Test, 2018 (JET 2018). JET 2018 will be held on February 18 in two sessions (forenoon and afternoon).
 
 The FTII, Pune and the SRFTI, Kolkata, both under the Union ministry of information and broadcasting, have announced JET for 2018 admissions. The all-India test will be held on February 18 at 26 centres across the country, including Patna in Bihar.
 
 As this is the first time that both institutes have come together for a common entrance test, FTII is conducting admission seminars at various locations across the country. Such seminars will generate awareness about JET, about the increased number of courses on offer and provide an opportunity to prospective candidates to seek clarifications from FTII representatives who will be addressing such seminars. 
 
 Admission seminars have been held in Uttarakhand (  and Dehradun), Banasthali Vidyapeeth and Jaipur (Rajasthan), Somaiya Vidyavihar and Mumbai (Maharashtra), Guwahati (Assam),   (Manipur) Bhubaneswar (Odisha) and Lucknow (Uttar Pradesh) between January 10 and 15.
 
 “FTII aims to attract maximum participants to these seminars so that a large number of prospective candidates from Bihar get an opportunity to take the JET this year. This year, FTII is making special efforts to increase entrance test enrolment in regions like Bihar where the candidates turnout is traditionally low,” said Bhupendra Kainthola while announcing the FTII’s plans to reach out to states with low turnout in FTII-SRFTI entrance tests.
 
 JET 2018 is a written test of three hours duration consisting of objective and subjective questions. Based on the JET score, FTII and SRFTI will send call letters to the candidates for the second stage of the selection process and, thereafter, on successful accomplishment of all the requisites, finally admit students to their full-time regular programmes for the academic year 2018.
 
 
