KOLKATA: Socio political compulsions of some 30,000 maids and drivers — who work in the city either by   and   or as full-time ayahs — to cast their votes in Monday’s   has left their employers in a fix. Many working couples, who leave their children, parents and in-laws in the “safe” hands of their maids, said one of them will have to stay back at home on Monday.

 
 While maids, who work on a part-time basis, have made it clear to their employers that they won’t report to work on Monday, those who work full time have also told their employers that they will go home on Sunday and return only after casting their vote on Monday. The common refrain among maids requesting leave was, “We are poor and will be deprived of the benefits we get from the panchayats and government if we don’t exercise our franchise.” While some employers saw no option and readily agreed to grant leave, maids cited their democratic right to vote to those employers who were initially reluctant to grant them leave.
 
 Some 18,000 maids and drivers commute daily from Barasat, Habra, Maslandapur and Bongaon in North 24 Parganas, while another 12,000 make it to the city every day from Canning, Lakshmikantapur, Sonarpur, Diamond Harbour and Baruipur from the southern fringes. This apart, a few thousand full-time maids are assigned by small agencies as 24-hour ayahs in households across the city.
 
 While maids and other daily commuting workers like drivers, security guards, construction workers remained firm in their stand, employers, particularly housewives, said they felt helpless.
 
  resident Sanjukta Mukherjee said, “I have a two-year-old daughter. I leave her in the care of my maids when I, along with my husband, leave home at 9 every morning till we return at 6 in the evening. But on Monday, they will not turn up for work. I will be forced to stay home that day.” Sumana Kaur of New Alipore, said, “My father-in-law is not keeping well for the last two years and is looked after by two maids who will take leave on Monday. I have to do their work.”
 
 Homemaker   of Teghoria said, “It isn’t an issue with my domestic help since they live in the same corporation area. But my driver, who lives in Khoribari, is a voter in the panchayat election. He is very conscious about his rights. That also includes his right to remain absent on Monday even though he will cast his vote by nine in the morning. Commuting on Monday will be a big problem.”
 
 Security agency owner Debajit Choudhury said, “We are an organisation of 30 years and have a strength of nearly10,000 people. But during election, this comes down to 6,000 or even less and we have to depend mainly on the workforce from other states like Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. Moreover, we have to make up for people from far off districts like Malda and North Dinajpur who can’t return even the next day.”
 
