KOLKATA: The 42nd edition of the Kolkata book fair may have been the talking point for the city till just a week back, but few know about the very first book fair the city held — a hundred years ago. The   (NCE), which had organised it in 1918, will hold the fair from February 21 to 25 on its   campus with some old publishers and the university press as participants.

 The 100-year-old book fair will be inaugurated by poet Shankha Ghosh. “University press, some old publishers like Motilal Banarasidass Publishers, Bangiya Sahitya Parishad, Oxford University Press and Shishu Sahitya Parishad will take part in the fair,” said Debobrata Roy, committee member of NCE.
 
 The NCE, founded by Indian nationalists in Bengal in 1906 to promote science and technology as part of a swadeshi industrialisation movement, felt the need for widening education and people’s access to books. The first book fair, the brainchild of Sir Gurudas Banerjee, was held at the ground at   w here the Goenka College of Commerce and Business Administration is located.
 
 
  
 Then called the Book Exhibition, it generated a lot of interest among citizens and continued for the next few years till the nationalist movement shifted its focus to a greater struggle against the British rule.
 
 NCE established the Bengal National College and Bengal Institute, which later merged to form Jadavpur University. Institutions functioning under the council were considered hotbeds of swadeshi activities and the government banned nationalistic activities there. People passing out of these institutions were not recognised by British government in India, but countries like France, Germany and USA recognised them because of the high quality of education in these institutions.
 
 Unfortunately, the first book fair slipped into oblivion. Nothing was kept on record about which publications participated. “But all the leading publishers of that time took part,” said Roy. NCE, in those days, operated from its central Kolkata office. Later, Kolkata’s first mayor   allotted NCE its current land.
 
