BHOPAL: The defence ministry in association with Madhya Pradesh government will open an   School in Morena in the next academic session and resume Army recruitment in the region, said defence minister Nirmala   while inaugurating Shaheed Smarak along with chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan in Morena on Monday.

 “Morena is the land of martyrs and brave soldiers. Whenever I visit border areas, I find soldiers from   region guarding the frontiers of our country. I dedicate this memorial to those brave soldiers who laid down their life for the country,” said Sitharaman.
 
 She said that more than 15,000 soldiers from Chambal are serving in the defence forces and are known for their devotion. DRDO has decided to set up a research centre of national importance in Morena, which would boost employment opportunities in the region.
 
 The defence minister, who was accompanied by Union minister for rural development Narendra Singh Tomar and CM Chouhan, said that if people of Chambal were ready to cooperate, the ministry would resume Army recruitment that was discontinued six years ago. “There were complaints of law and order issues during Army recruitment rallies in Chambal region. If people are ready to maintain order, the drive would restart,” assured Sitharaman.
 
 CM Chouhan reiterated his commitment to pay Rs 5,000 as monthly pension to the next kin of martyred soldiers. He said the state government announced a compensation of Rs 1 crore to a soldier martyred on LoC and the pension would be an additional financial relief to the bereaved family. “Parents of martyrs will get Rs 5,000 monthly pension as the state government is preparing a pension scheme. We are glad that our defence minister is a woman who is dedicated and devoted to her duty,” said Chouhan. Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar pointed out that Chambal, which was portrayed in films as a dacoit-infested area, was actually the birthplace of brave soldiers and martyrs. Sitharaman visited an exhibition of defence equipment and paid tributes to the martyrs.
 
 Surprisingly, BJP Lok Sabha member Anup Mishra wasn’t seen at the event. It’s learnt that he did not receive an official invitation from the state government. Mishra, however, did not speak to the reporters on this.
 
 
