HYDERABAD: A day after   K Chandrasekhar Rao positioned himself nationally, coining a new concept of 'people's third front' against BJP and  , he claimed support was pouring in from across the political spectrum. 

 Speaking at a public meeting at his camp office in Hyderabad,   said he received calls from West Bengal chief minister  , former Jharkhand chief minister Hemant Soren, six MPs from Maharashtra and Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan, seeking an alternative front against Congress and BJP.
 
 Telugu Desam Party, which had threatened to pull out of NDA over poor budgetary grants to Andhra Pradesh, couched its support to its Telugu counterpart in Telangana, by saying states are at a disadvantage in the current dispensation. TDP spokesperson Rajendra Prasad said the party is keeping an eye on the development. "We agree with KCR on this issue.   is bearing the brunt of the crisis." 
 
 
 
 On Saturday, TRS president KCR reiterated his decision to enter national politics with “a clear mind and notwithemotion”. “When I launched the   movement, people had doubts about its result. But finally, our commitment paidoff,” hesaid.
 
 The CM declared he would play a key role in national politics to usher change. He also said he would meet various party leaders and was ready to lead thethird front.
 
 Addressing party workers on Sunday, KCR said, “West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee called me this afternoon and conveyed support. She agreed with me that there was a necessity for qualitative change in country’s politics. Mamata said shewillwork with me.”
 
 Soren also expressed solidarity with KCR and welcomed his decision to play a key role in national politics. Also, six MPs from Maharashtra, several intellectualsexpressedsupport to thechief minister.
 
 TRS leaders and people from across state gathered at his residence on Sunday. Priests, representatives from Brahmin community, clerics, representatives of Muslim organizations, Christian and Sikh representatives thronged theCMOtoexpresssolidarity.
 
 
 
