Nagpur: Every hour, a student commits suicide in the country. There has been a manifold increase in teen suicides in the last few years. “Parents and doctors need to take the issue seriously, be vigilant, observant and be friends with their children to minimize the cases,” said Dr Samir Dalwai, a developmental and behavioural paediatrician from Mumbai, here on Saturday.

 “Increased isolation of children within the family, obsession with social media and depression are taking a toll on children right from the school age to adolescence. Parents and teachers need to bond with children, understand them, and be vigilant about any signs of depression,” he said.
 
 Dr Dalwai, who happens to be on the state committee for protection of child rights, was in the city to attend the ongoing four-day national paediatric conference being hosted by the city chapter of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP).
 
 “The social fabric of society has become very weak and changed a lot. Besides the disintegration of joint families, westernization of society has also destroyed the family connect. Students cannot relate with their parents and teachers though they need them the most in their growing up years,” said Dr Dalwai.
 
 The kids are obsessed with media, especially social media, said Dr Dalwai and added, “They are either hooked to televisions or mobiles. Parents give their children these facilities to compensate for the time they aren’t able to give to them. Instant gratification has taken over everyone. This has created a drift between the parents and the children.”
 
 It is observed that today’s children can’t tolerate a ‘no’ from parents. “They cannot deal with dejection and hence end up committing suicide. Simple factors like not getting a phone or a bike or less marks make them kill themselves,” Dr Dalwai said.
 
 Depression is another evil catching up fast with the youth. “It is affecting almost 28-30% of the children and remains undetected. Disturbed sleep, appetite, aloofness and lack of friends should be looked as signs of depression. They are red flags in the lives of children.”
 
 Dr Dalwai added that parents need to connect to the teenager. They should be prepared to handle difficult behaviour of their wards and understand their feelings. “They should be able to point out what’ right and wrong but while maintaining their calm,” said Dr Dalwai.
 
 Parents also need to keep normal behaviour immediately after any unpleasant incident. This is needed to ensure that children take their parents positively to keep feeling of insecurity, sadness, physical and emotional downs at bay.
 
 Parents and teachers also need to keep themselves aware of latest technological developments so that their children feel that they are not backward and uneducated. “They need to be modern, cool and endorse their behaviour rather than shouting at them,” Dr Dalwai said.
 
 
