TRICHY: There has been an inordinate delay on part of   ( ) in paying salary to their ad hoc guest faculty in constituent colleges, who are paid much lower than the regular faculty.

 Earlier, they were getting their salary on the first of every month as the salary cycle ends on every 24th starting from 25th. However, many of them are forced to wait till mid of the month to get the salary and this has been happening for the past six months. This has been the case since vice chancellor post went vacant. They are forced to fight for their legitimate share almost every month from the university.
 
 Among the 392 teaching faculty in 10 constituent colleges under BDU, only 31 are permanent teachers. They are availing salary prescribed by the   ( ).
 
 However, rest of the 362 are hired as guest faculties with their salary not exceeding Rs 15,000 starting from as low as Rs 10,000 based on their qualification. This apart there are 87 faculties who are paid on an hourly basis depending on the availability.
 
 “The finance department in BDU has been delaying the whole process leaving the guest faculty in lurch,” said a guest faculty from a constituent college in Nannilam in   district.
 
 “There are many families which are dependent on their salary and are forced to take debts due to the delay. Such delay over the past few months has been affecting the economic condition of faculty members,” said the faculty.
 
 There are many teachers who are working as guest lecturers for over two decades now. But their monthly salary is mere three-day salary of that of the permanent teaching staff’s. As per UGC norms, a minimum of Rs 25,000 should be paid to the faculties in the colleges under the university.
 
 “This is nothing but intellectual exploitation that too, by the government which should be an ideal employer,” said the faculty.
 
 Registrar of Bharathidasan University, Gopinath Ganapathy, however said that the delay is most likely to be avoided from next month onwards. “Files had to go all the way to Chennai for approval from the VC convener committee every month. Now that the new vice chancellor will be taking charge on Monday, the files are most likely to be cleared in half-a-day after clearance from the finance department,” said the registrar.
 
 
