NAGPUR: Nagpur University’s decision to reopen Sunil Mishra’s case regarding his role in the Kohchade scam has put then   (BoE) members under scanner but they claim to hardly remember the meeting in which   was allowed to surrender his allegedly bogus LLB  . 

 Led by the then former vice-chancellor SN   and pro-VC GS Parasher, the BOE had allowed Mishra to surrender his in its meeting on November 13, 2006.
 
 Mishra’s proposal was not even listed in the BoE’ agenda, perhaps to keep the vexed issue under wraps, and was only put up as table item, which was cleared immediately without much discussion.
 
 VC SP Kane had already pointed out that then BoE’s decision was “illegal” as the apex examination body had no rights to accept the surrendered degree. “As Mishra’s case was still pending with the trial court, BOE shouldn’t have taken up the issue even for the discussion,” he said.
 
 The BoE members allowed Mishra to surrender the mark sheets without even bothering to verify them, leading to commutation of his 12 years and six months of rigorous imprisonment to just six months by the high court (HC). Though the HC maintained Mishra’s conviction under Sections 420, 109, 408, 471, and 120B IPC, he never challenged it in the Supreme Court.
 
 When TOI tried to talk to some of members of the then BoE, most of them said they hardly recollected the issue.
 
 Pathan said, “I don’t remember anything as thousands of such meetings used to take place in the university. I am completely out of touch now,” he told TOI from Pune.
 
 Parasher indirectly blamed Pathan for any mess that could have happened in that meeting, as the latter had chaired it as the VC. “No item on agenda or through table item can be placed without VC’s knowledge. If bogus mark sheets are generated and placed in the meeting, then it’s a big fraud and needs to be investigated thoroughly. Questions would also be raised about which NU officials helped to prepare such bogus documents,” he said.
 
 Though senior academician   didn’t remember the issue, he squarely blamed the then exam section officials led by ex-controller of examinations (CoE) LR Nagargoje. “All BoE’s decisions are primarily based on inputs given by NU officials. We as members don’t have much say in that. If the recommendation is positive or negative, the order is passed accordingly. Now the university must take action as per rule,” he said.
 
 
