MADURAI: Two men sleeping in a house were murdered by an armed gang in Ramanathapuram district late on Sunday night. A teenager, who survived the attack is undergoing treatment at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai.

 Preliminary investigation revealed that the attack was carried out due to previous enmity between two rowdy groups. 
 
 The deceased were identified as M Boominathan, 23 and R Vijay, 32, from Polai Nagar near Valantharavai. R Vijay, 19, was admitted to the GRH after given first aid at the Ramanathapuram government hospital. Police said the victims were sleeping in their friend’s house after attending an ear piercing ceremony. An armed gang which entered the house at around 11pm attacked the occupants and escaped. 
 
 On being alerted, a police team from   rushed to the spot.   district superintendent of police Om   also visited and conducted an inquiry. Police sources said that the victims were supporters of one Baskaran, a rowdy. There was a rivalry between Baskaran and  , another rowdy from the same locality. 
 
 Police said that recently, the district police detained Baskaran under the Goondas Act. It is suspected that Dharmaraj gang could have attacked the victims taking advantage of the vulnerable situation of their opponents in the absence of Baskaran.
 
 Tension prevailed in the village as the relatives refused to allow the police to clear the dead bodies. They demanded the immediate arrest of the perpetrators. They also attacked the houses of the suspected perpetrators. Finally, the bodies were shifted to the hospital where postmortem was carried out. Based on a complaint a case has been registered and a detailed investigation is on. In another incident that took place in Ramanathapuram district, Bala, 24, from Nagachi near Uchipuli was murdered by unidentified people in Rameswaram. The incident took place in the midnight of Sunday at his relative’s place. Relatives of Bala started a protest at   government hospital, blocking the Madurai main road, demanding the arrest of the murderers. 
 
 
