GURUGRAM: The Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) finalised and submitted the much-awaited report on the Bandhwari   to the office of the additional deputy commissioner on Wednesday.

 The report was prepared after a public hearing took place at Bandhwari village on March 21. The report will soon be submitted to the environment impact assessment (EIA) committee of the MoEF&CC.
 
 “The plant has excellent capability of low quality fuel (and) ability to handle wide range in respect to moisture and calorific value of waste. It can burn very low quality MSW (municipal solid waste) with a heating value of less than 4.2 MJ/kg... nitrogen dioxide and sulphur dioxide emissions are significantly decreased without special environmental modifications,” states the report.
 
 HSPCB officials said the issues and demands raised by locals in the public hearing were also incorporated in the report. “We’ve prepared a comprehensive report with all the benefits of the proposed waste-to-energy plant in it. We’ve also written about the demands, objections and concerns raised by green activists and villagers during the public hearing. We’ve sent the report to the office of the additional deputy commissioner. It will further be sent to the head office of the board,” said a senior HSPCB official.
 
 Environmentalists, though, alleged that the board didn’t send the minutes of the meeting to them. “People present during the public hearing emphasised on the need for decentralised segregation of garbage at multiple collection centres in the city. They also mentioned that mixed garbage shouldn’t be sent to Bandhwari, as it violates the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist who was present at the public hearing.
 
 “Also, Bandhwari landfill does not have the required clearance from the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC) for diversion of forest land and Aravali plantation for any non-forest activity. Allowing a waste-to-energy plant there is thus in complete violation of the   and NGT rulings,” the environmentalist added.
 
 
