PUNE: Union minister of state for finance Shiv Pratap   on Friday said the Centre would bring fuel under the ambit of goods and services tax if states were ready and stressed that the move would help reduce the prices of petrol and diesel.

 “Our petroleum minister has also said this but till the time states come up with a proposal, the   (goods and services tax) council cannot take a call on including fuel in GST. Our hope is that it will come, and then we can pass the benefits to consumers,” said Shukla during an interaction with reporters.
 
 He said if states came forward with a proposal, the government would act upon it immediately.
 
 Fuel prices have soared in recent weeks, stoking inflation fears. Rising fuel prices is turning out to be bothersome for the customers. Central and state levies contribute to doubling of the landed cost of the fuel.
 
 Bringing the fuel under the GST regime is considered a way to decrease the fuel price and give some relief to customers. But it did not fructify because a major part of the states’ revenue came from taxing fuel and they did not give consent to include fuel in GST.
 
 When asked why the Union government was not able to convince the 20 states where the BJP holds power singularly or through an alliance, Shukla said, “That is not the issue because even they can have problems and we do not want to interfere.”
 
 He said the Union government’s tax pie in fuel prices was lower compared to that of the states and the government had told the states to consider bringing down their share of taxes.
 
 Referring to the cash crunch, the minister said, “You cannot prepare for these things. We can only react to the demands of the public.”
 
 Shukla, however, categorically ruled out demonetization of Rs2,000 notes — something that bankers say is getting hoarded in huge numbers.
 
 “Rs2,000 notes are everywhere, including in banks. Rs500 notes are more in the system and so Rs2,000 notes seem less ... there is no question of demonetization of Rs2,000 notes,” Shukla said.
 
 While speaking at a talk on GST and tax organized by the Mahratta Chambers of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, he said the government had simplified the GST returns procedure and was ready to bring laws to enable smooth business for corporates and traders. “The traders and corporates must also contribute (back),” he urged, without elaborating further.
 
 
