NEW DELHI: With almost 1,000 domestic   being cancelled at   between January 18 and January 26 looming large over thousands of flyers, the aviation ministry has begun talks with defence authorities to try and reduce the number of days of   in the run up to the  . 

 Delhi airport has asked airlines to   all domestic flights between 10.30am and 12.15pm, and also those in ‘buffer time’ of plus and minus 30 minutes within those nine days. The move is expected to hit over 100 flights daily.
 
 “We are trying to minimise the number of days and are in talks with defence ministry. We will see if the   closures can be limited to days when flypast practice takes place and obviously R Day,” said a senior aviation official.
 
 Two airlines — Air India and Vistara — said they would offer free rescheduling or full refund to passengers booked on flights that might get cancelled due to the airspace closure notice to airmen (NOTAM). Other airlines did not comment on their policy. Delhi International Airport Pvt Ltd (DIAL) CEO, I P Rao, will meet airlines on Monday to discuss the issue.
 
 Airspace closures always happen during the Republic Day, but till last year, a majority of flights were adjusted by being pre or postponed. However, now, with IGIA being completely choked, there is no possibility of adjustment in flights timings. The issue has arisen due to the failure to augment capacity of IGIA runways to handle more flights by laying the fourth airstrip and increasing passenger handling ability of its terminals, despite the fact that the airport has ample land for these things.
 
 “We have taken up this issue with DIAL and they say the actual air travel growth in the last two to three years has been much more than what they had initially projected. We are trying to push them now to speed up,” said the official. 
 
 DIAL has plans to lay fourth runway and expand Terminal 1 capacity. However, these projects are yet to kick off and might start next month if the majorly-delayed move to decongest T1 by shifting one-third of its flights to T2 takes place.
 
 
