CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has described the provision of the   ( ) for negative marking if any candidate raised frivolous objections against answer key of aryurvedic medical officers’ recruitment test as “draconian”. The court adjourned the case to enable the commission to withdraw the provision.

 The matter pertains to recruitment of 118 ayurvedic medical officers initiated by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) in October, 2016. The objective type written test was conducted by PPSC on October 29, 2017.
 
 However, on the same day, before finalizing the result, the PPSC published a public notice on its website inviting the candidates to submit their objections to wrong answers in the answer key within three days, but the candidates were warned that if their objections are found to be wrong, then three marks for each such wrong objection shall be deducted from their score.
 
 A petition was filed by Prabhpreet Singh and six other candidates, who, among other issues, contended that this public notice was arbitrary and it inhibited them from lodging objections against wrong answers in the answer key. They have thus, been pushed into a situation where they could not raise any objection against any wrong answer.
 
 They had also alleged that question paper for written examination was printed in Roman English, instead of printing it in Hindi language, in which they had studied the BAMS course, due to which they faced serious prejudice.
 
 They said that they did not lodge any objections against those questions due to inhibiting provision for negative marking.
 
 The HC had stayed the recruitment process on November 7, 2017.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on Thursday, the PPSC offered to examine any such questions which caused any problem to the petitioners, and to withdraw those question if need be, after getting those questions analyzed from subject experts.
 
 After hearing the arguments at length, Justice Jaswant Singh of the HC observed that the provision for negative marking was arbitrary, draconian, and appears to have been incorporated without application of mind by the PPSC. HC adjourned the petition for May 24, 2018, to enable the PPSC to consider withdrawing the provision.
 
 
