LUCKNOW: Votes will be cast in   and Phulpur parliamentary bypolls today. The campaigning has been rigorous and intense, with both ruling party and opposition having a lot at stake as the result will build ground for the general elections next year. The poll outcome is also crucial since the result will be seen both as a mandate on state government’s performance in its first year and test the efficacy of SP-BSP alliance and its prospects in 2019.

 In the last fortnight, CM Yogi visited Gorakhpur a number of times, stayed there for over seven days, and addressed 21 public meetings, events while a number of his ministers have been camping there.
 
  intensified campaigning after BSP extended support to SP candidates and changed strategy to prevent consolidation of opposition votes.
 
 BJP had to convince people that Upendra Shukla, who had once rebelled against the party, was a choice of Yogi, who is popularly known as ‘Maharaj ji’ in Gorakhpur. BJP is also banking on RSS foot soldiers who have fanned out in the five assembly segments of Gorakhpur.
 
 On the other hand, SP president   had stitched up an alliance of OBC-dominated parties including NISHAD Party, Peace Party, NCP, RLD and also Binds and Gonds to give a fight to BJP. He deployed prominent faces like Ram Govind Chaudhary, Arvind Singh Gope, Uday Veer Singh, Lalai Yadav and Balram Yadav to woo non-upper caste voters.
 
 BSP support has boosted SP morale as Brahmins have a considerable presence in Gorakhpur and Vinay Shankar Tewari, BSP MLA from Chillupar and son of muscleman-turned-politician Hari Shankar Tiwari, is campaigning for its candidate Pravin Kumar Nishad.
 
 Eastern UP has been infamous for traditional rivalry between the two dominant upper castes, Brahmins and Thakurs.
 
  is banking on the popularity of its candidate Dr Surheeta Kareem, a well known doctor in Gorakhpur, but is not very hopeful.
 
 BJP has fielded   from Phulpur even though he is seen as an outsider, having been mayor of Varanasi.
 
 Traditionally, Phulpur has been a Congress bastion, since it was represented by Jawahar Lal Nehru thrice.
 
 Yogi addressed meetings in Phulpur too though deputy CM Keshav Maurya, who represented the constituency till he resigned, has been leading the campaign.
 
 Independent candidate Atiq Yadav is, however, threatening to nibble into Muslim votes of SP-BSP alliance while Congress has nominated a Brahmin to eat into BJP votes.
 
 While SP and BSP are banking on caste equations, BJP is relying on Modi-Yogi magic to work in its favour.
 
