NAGPUR: The Nagpur University’s (NU) monetary aid scheme has become a big draw with over 500 poor students getting benefited last year. The   has now invited applications from such students who didn’t qualify for any kind of scholarship and have less than Rs1 lakh family income.

 NU officials said this year more applications are expected. NU has uploaded the application format along with details on its website and asked students to apply by January 15, 2018. The scheme is open for all and there are no reservations to avail it.
 
 The yearly aid ranges from Rs3,000 to Rs7,000 and can be claimed to cover food, books cost, exam fee, tuition fee, medical expenses and other educational needs of students.
 
 Both, undergraduate and postgraduate students, who didn’t qualify for any kind of scholarship, and having less than Rs1lakh family income, are eligible for the scheme.
 
 The sanctioned amount is immediately deposited in the bank accounts of the students. The applications have to be forwarded through college principals or the head of department. Later, they would be put up before the student’s monetary aid committee comprising the vice chancellor or his nominee, two HoDs appointed by the management council, one principal of affiliated college, students’ council president or secretary, director of students welfare department and two members approved by the committee.
 
 Besides the attested income certificate, students need to submit an undertaking by their parents.
 
 The funds for the scheme have been pooled in from university grants commission ( ), student welfare fund, university’s general funds and donations.
 
 The scheme is an addition for the needy and poor students. Earlier this year, the   had decided to give free education to children of ex-servicemen and farmers who committed suicide. They would get free education in all university PG departments and the three conducted colleges. Entire tuition fee and exam fee have been waived off for them.
 
 But the decision was taken after admissions were over for this year, making the scheme applicable from next year.
 
 
