SURAT: “It’s a tradition that the President of India doesn’t attend private award functions or ceremonies. I have broken the age-old practice because the people getting awards and those giving them away are able and noble souls,” said President   on Tuesday.

 
 
 President Kovind said, “I checked on the credentials of the foundation and the awardees. The three essential qualities of humility, simplicity and sensitivity were found in both the awardees and SRK Foundation chairman Govind Dholakia. So, I agreed to attend the award function.” 
 
 On his maiden visit to the city, the President gave away Santokbaa Humanitarian Awards to Nobel Peace Prize laureate   and former Isro chairman A S Kiran Kumar at a function organized by Shree Ramkrishna Knowledge Foundation.
 
 Kovind said, “If one award recipient wants to eradicate social evils like child labour and sexual abuse of children from the earth, the other sought to reach the heights with Mangalyaan.” 
 
 The President said, “Surat is a city of opportunities and entrepreneurship. Surtis know the art of living. I have been visiting the city since 1971 and used to stay at former chief minister Hitendra Desai’s house at Nanpura. I used to go to railway station to buy newspapers and always found Surtis accommodating towards others.   has always provided leadership to the country if we look at Mahatma Gandhi, Sardar Patel and former Prime Minister Morarji Desai with whom I had an opportunity to work for some time. And now, we have Narendra Modi, who has earned a name for the country through his modern thinking and hard work.”
 
 Kailash Satyarthi accepted the trophy and award money worth Rs 1 crore. He announced a donation of the amount to Surakshit Bachpan Fund. He said, “I would ask the chief minister of Gujarat to take stern measures in eradicating child labour, which still exists in some parts of Gujarat.” 
 
 A S Kiran Kumar said, “I dedicate my award money (Rs 1 crore) for research and development at Isro. I take pride in the fact that India today is one of the top five countries in space technology. Our space mission was started by Vikram Sarabhai, a Gujarati in the 1950s.” 
 
 SRK Foundation chairman Govind Dholakiya said, “I wanted to institute an award in the memory of my mother. We have been able to recognize wonderful people who have been working for the betterment of the society for the past 12 years.” 
 
 
