NAGPUR: The   on Saturday accused the   government of trying to destroy democratic institutions. “The   is now being used to destabilize the   government in Delhi by the disqualification of 20 MLAs without any basis,” party’s national spokesman Ashutosh said here on Saturday.

 Ashutosh, who was in the city for an event at a college, was speaking to the media on the latest development in Delhi in which 20 MLAs of AAP were disqualified as beneficiaries of office on being appointed as Parliamentary secretaries to ministers.
 
 “Clearly, the chief   commissioner AK Joti was in a great hurry to please his boss Narendra Modi. Just two days before his retirement, Joti has acted with vindictiveness that is normally associated with a political party. Office of profit disputes related to MLAs being appointed as legislative secretaries to ministers have been lingering in states like West Bengal, Chhattisgarh and Punjab. But nowhere such rash action of disqualification has been taken,” said Ashutosh. 
 
 “The ECI, which had achieved high stature under TN Seshan and James Lyngdoh, is being misused. Earlier, the RBI was treated shabbily by thrusting demonetization decision on it,” said the journalist-turned AAP leader.
 
 He said the action was in a series of measures initiated right from the AAP government’s inception in Delhi. “Till date 15 MLAs have been sent to jail under various cases at Modi’s instructions because he has not been able to digest the resounding defeat in Delhi assembly elections,” the AAP spokesperson said.
 
 “The matter was pending before Delhi high court. The high court’s earlier decision nullifying the notification by which these 20 MLAs were given the secretarial post, meant that the posts were no longer valid. Moreover, the letters of appointment had clearly stated that there would be absolutely no financial gains from the posts. Yet, the EC violated principles of natural justice and jurisprudence and announced its quasi judicial decision of summary disqualification,” said Ashutosh adding that the party would challenge the decision in the high court and, if need be, in Supreme Court too.
 
 
