NAGPUR: “The   imposed by the then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on June 25, 1975, devastated lives of lakhs of volunteers of   (RSS) as they were jailed for almost two years without their fault. Today’s generation should be told about the sufferings and agonies they faced in those days so that they could understand the gravity of the situation prevalent that time,” said union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, on Sunday.

 Gadkari was speaking at a function organized by Tai Seva Pratishthan and Bhaurao Deoras Pratishthan at Baljagat, Laxmi Nagar, to felicitate 180 persons who were jailed under Maintenance of Internal Security Act, infamously known as MISA, in memory of Sumatitai Sukalikar, leader of the erstwhile Jan Sangh. 
 
 Recalling the black chapter in the history of Indian democracy, Gadkari said that most of those jailed were in the prime of their youth. They lost jobs after being imprisoned while their families had to face mental and financial difficulties in managing household responsibilities. But they faced the grim situation with a brave heart. It was due to their sacrifice that   (BJP) is now standing on a solid footing, he added. 
 
 In his address, former sah-prant pracharak of RSS   termed the imposition of Emergency and subsequent arrests of innocent people as unjustified. What punishment should be given to the Congress party for such ruthless killing of human rights, he asked. 
 
 “It was hunger to stay in power that made Indira Gandhi to clamp Emergency. She was surrounded by a coterie which called the shots and put democracy in peril under the garb of maintaining internal security,”   claimed. 
 
 Those who attended the function were mayor Nanda Jichkar, MLA Sudhakar Kohale, corporator Pravin Datke, leader of the ruling party in Nagpur Municipal Corporation Sandeep Joshi, president of Baljagat Prabhakar Mundle, Jagdish Sukalikar, former pro vice-chancellor Yoganand Kale, former judge of the family court Meera Khadakkar and Shivani Dani.
 
 Vinay Tarse conducted the proceedings while Shyam Deshpande proposed a vote of thanks.
 
 
