Coimbatore: He likes cities, but rues developing them with no regard for nature. For French writer Pierre Ducrozet, connecting with nature tops priority and he feels it’s high time cities embraced concepts such as urban farms and vertical farms to bring in the lost serenity. “Earlier, humans used to connect with nature and the world. But this connect has broken today and we are in a crisis,” Ducrozet, who first visited the country as an aspiring writer in 2009, said. The solution, he added, was to bring back nature to the cities. Now an author of four popular novels, two of which have won literary prizes in France, Ducrozet said the memories of his first visit to the country were still fresh in his mind. “Initially, all the chaos around didn’t go down well with me. But as i travelled around for four months, i loved everything the country had to offer. And it was also about strong experiences. There was too much of everything - emotions, colours, smells...,” he said. No wonder, he makes his characters travel to India. “Both in my first novel, Requiem for Lola Red, and my latest novel, The Invention of the Bodies, there are characters who make trips to India,” he said. Ducrozet was in the city as part of Bonjour India, a platform conceived by the Institut Francais India to bring together talents from both the countries. Pointing out that the cities in India, China and Korea have developed so fast, the 35-year-old writer wondered whether they were liveable. While flaying reckless development, he reiterated the need to bring back nature to the cities. “The presence of nature gives a city a vital serenity. For example, Barcelona, the city I stay in, is blessed with sea, mountains and fresh air,” he said. According to Ducrozet, it’s time cities modified their production and consumption methods. “Currently, we carry farm produce a long way from villages to cities. This has to change. We should produce our food in our cities. It will also help save a lot of resources,” he added. His latest novel talks about the internet and information technology. “In the era of easy communication, we have to look to decentralise the population concentration from cities to villages,” the author said. Though bustling with such ideas, Ducrozet said he came to the city to learn. “As a writer, I have more questions than answers,” he smiled. Ducrozet will be in the city for three days. Besides attending the event ‘The Other City’, he will on Friday hold talks with architects and urban planners Raphael Gastebois and Pierre Guyot on smart and sustainable cities.