LUDHIANA: Four days after a head teacher and class teacher of Government Elementary School, Baba Sri Chand Colony of  , were suspended and transferred, respectively, for allegedly making two schoolchildren lift garbage outside the school, the education department revoked the orders following public outcry on Monday.

 The education department revoked the orders after different teacher unions and parents of schoolchildren came out in protest. Two days back, the department had sent a team to inquire into the incident.
 
 The controversy started after a video of school students lifting garbage buckets went viral on social media. The video was made by local BJP leader Anil Kumar in which students were seen saying that the teachers had asked them to throw garbage in a plot, about one km away from school.
 
 In immediate action, district education officer (elementary)   suspended school’s head teacher   and transferred class teacher Savita to Macchiwara on Friday.
 
 However, the decision did not go down well with teachers’ associations, residents and parents of school kids. By Friday evening, teachers started expressing their anger on social media. On Saturday, DEO Jaspreet Kaur and deputy DEO   went to the school for an inquiry. About 50 parents and residents also reached the school and gave in writing that they don’t want action against teachers.
 
 On Sunday, several teachers and teacher associations across the state wrote applications to secretary education telling that the schools will boycott the cleaning process.
 
 Besides, teacher associations also came out against the government for not providing safai karamcharis in government primary schools. They also questioned the action against teachers, claiming that students are involved in clean-up act under Swachh Bharat Mission in every part of the country.
 
 Teacher associations also called for a protest outside the DC office at the Mini Secretariat on Monday, seeking justice.
 
 Head teacher Charanjit Kaur said, “The department had taken a hasty decision. Though we understand that we were at fault for sending school kids outside the campus, but things were presented differently.” District education officer (elementary) Jaspreet Kaur was not available for comments.
 
