PATNA: The Patna high court on Friday asked the state government why it was adamant on destruction of   imported by Nepal from Australia and seized at Kashichak in Nawada district last year.

 The consignment of 1,164 cartons of wine in a sealed container truck was seized on SH-71 near   Mor under Shahpur outpost of the Kashichak police station area in Nawada district on May 2, 2017 while it was on way to Nepal from   port in Kolkata.
 
 The consignment was imported by Nepalese firm Ms Global Trading Concern Private Limited to Nepal from Adelaide in Australia when it was intercepted by Nawada police and seized. The police had written to the Nawada district magistrate for its destruction.
 
 Hearing a writ petition filed by the Nepalese firm, the division bench of Chief Justice Rajendra Menon and Justice Anil Kumar Upadhyay also asked the state government why can’t be the entire consignment be sent to Nepal with police escort.
 
 Senior advocates Y V Giri,   Agrawal and Aditi Hansaria represented the firm. Advocate general ( ) Lalit Kishor said the matter would again come up for hearing on January 16.
 
 In charge of Shahpur outpost, Ranjeet Kumar, told TOI the container was intercepted during routine patrolling. “The consignment was being taken to Nepal but it was seized under the prohibition law of  ,” he said, adding it had violated prohibition laws and did not follow the prescribed route chart.
 
 Kumar said the container truck was sealed. “It had one seal of customs department of Kolkata while another seal stamped in Adelaide. The consignment has not been opened yet,” Kumar said and added that documents indicating import of the wine from Adelaide were also seized by police.
 
 He also said truck driver  , a native of Nalanda, was arrested. Later, he was granted bail by a Nawada court after a fortnight. “Police had already written to the district magistrate for destruction of the seized consignment on which no direction has been received yet,” he said.
 
 Prohibition was enforced in Bihar by CM Nitish Kumar on April 5, 2016. Manufacturing, sale and consumption of liquor has been prohibited in the state. More than 1.1 lakh people have been arrested for violation of prohibition law and above 13.05 lakh litres of smuggled India-made foreign liquor (IMFL), 7.13 lakh litres of spirit-based country liquor and 2.29 lakh litres of country liquor in Bihar has been seized till now.
 
 
