A typical iftar dinner begins like this. A few minutes before the muezzin calls out the maghrib or evening prayers, the imam or another preacher loudly and passionately seeks Allah’s blessings. A pin drop silence prevails before the azaan is called out announcing the breaking of the day’s fast which the faithful do with light snacks, dates and sherbet. Then the join the congregational prayer and post the prayer, they rush to the dinner tables and cram the buffet corners.

 
 Gorging on the lavish delicacies like piping hot payas, kebabs, korma, biryani and washing them down with a variety of sherbets, few guests care that a lot has been left. To beat the hunger pangs, many pile up food in their plates but cannot finish it as they get satiated quickly. So what do the guests or their hosts do with the leftovers? Now, instead of chucking them to the waste bins to be carried away by municipal waste collecting vans later, many pick up the phones and call the volunteers who come, collect the leftover food, now packed, distribute it among the needy squatting on roadsides or awaiting in the hovels.
 
 One of such services during   has been initiated by Shiv Vahtuk Sena, Shiv Sena's transport wing. “So far we have appointed volunteers in five localities in South Mumbai. Once our volunteers get calls they rush to collect food and hand it over to the needy before it gets stale and spoiled,” explains Vahtuk Sena's Vice-President Sajid Kasam Sopariwala. Sopariwala adds he got disturbed by the colossal wastage of food especially during Ramzan and decided to do something about it.
 
 But Vahtuk Sena President Haji Arafat Shaikh got so disgusted with the food’s “criminal” wastage at the chaotic iftar parties that he stopped holding and attending them a decade ago. “Apart from getting late for my tarawih (the special nocturnal namaz performed in Ramzan), I would see huge wastage of food at iftar diners,” says Shaikh. “Look at these tables where so much food has been left untouched. Why do people take so much that they cannot eat?,” he asks at a dinner in South Mumbai he attended the other day “because the host is a great friend and I couldn’t say no.”
 
 Among those who prevent wastage of food by the community members in a more organized manner are the Dawoodi Bohras. To understand it better we visit Faizul Muwaid al Burhaniya (FMB), the community kitchen programme, at  , the Bohras’ headquarters at Fort. With the help of food charts, menus and booklets, FMB’s senior executive   explains: “At every town and city across the world where the   reside we have formed a Dana (grain) Committee which is tasked to eliminate food wastage.”
 
 As a first step, the dana committee has developed RSVP apps and other web and mobilebased platforms where invitees to a communal meal inform in advance if they are attending or skipping the dinner.
 
 There are 6187 dana committee volunteers across the world, including 822 in Mumbai. At community dinners two dana committee volunteers are assigned to look after 10 thals (big plates). Before the communal meal commences, dana committee members remind the guests of zero food wastage. Apart from quoiting the Prophetic tradition against wastage of food, the volunteers also reiterate the community’s spiritual head Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin’s repeated emphasis on not allowing even a single grain to go waste..
 
 
