NEW DELHI: The   on Friday recommended to the President the 
  for holding " ". The EC recommendation came as a blow to the ruling party in Delhi, after recent electoral setbacks.

 The president is bound to go by the EC's recommendation.
 
 Here is a lowdown on what is an "office of profit" and how things stand across India:
 
 
 
 
 If an MLA or an MP holds a government office and receives benefits from it, then that office is termed as an "office of profit". A person will be disqualified if he holds an office of profit under the central or state government, other than an office declared not to disqualify its holder by a law passed by Parliament or state legislature.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  Mamata Banerjee government appointed 24 parliamentary secretaries for “coordination between government departments”. Kolkata HC called it unconstitutional. Matter pending in SC. Posts currently non-functional
 
 
  Karnataka government appointed 11 MLAs and MLCs as parliamentary secretaries. Says posts not equivalent to minister of state and they are only assistants to ministers. Case pending in HC
 
 
  Rajasthan government has 10 parliamentary secretaries who enjoy status of ministers of state. Passed a bill in October 2017 to give them constitutional validity, which has been challenged in HC
 
 
  Odisha appointed 20 MLAs as chairpersons of district planning committees in 2016 and gave them minister of state status by amending an Act. DPCs get vehicles and secretarial staff, but don’t draw extra salary
 
 Telangana: Telangana appointed six MLAs as parliamentary secretaries in 2014 and gave cabinet status by enacting law. Hyderabad HC quashed appointments in June 2016
 
 
 Nagaland and Arunachal Pradesh have 26 parliamentary secretaries each. After SC held law enacted by Assam in 2004 unconstitutional, other NE states discontinued the posts. Eleven parliamentary secretaries resigned Manipur, seven in Mizoram. Meghalaya HC, too, held Meghalaya Parliamentary Secretaries Act “invalid”, 17 resigned
 
 
  Punjab and Haryana HC set aside appointment of four MLAs as chief parliamentary secretaries in July 2017. HC had struck down appointments of 18 Punjab MLAs as CPSs by SAD-BJP government in Punjab on similar grounds. Even SC had refused to stay the order
 
 
