PATNA: Leader of opposition in   assembly and RJD senior   on Friday said RSS chief   and PM   were running the show in Bihar and CM Nitish Kumar did not have the courage to speak anything against BJP. 

 “Nitish Kumar is just like a ‘mukhauta’ (mask). RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat and PM Narendra Modi are running the show in Bihar from behind the curtains,”   said at an election meeting at Udahat in   district in favour of RJD candidate Shahnawaz for Jokihat assembly byelection scheduled on May 28.
 
 Tejashwi alleged that the Nitish government even failed to arrest a “novice BJP leader” despite a warrant of arrest against him for inciting communal violence at Nathnagar in Bhagalpur district. Though Tejashwi didn’t take name, he was referring to Union minister of state Ashwini Kumar Choubey’s son Arijit Shaswat, who was accused of inciting communal violence at Nathnagar March 17 this year. 
 
 Comparing the courage shown by his father and RJD chief Lalu Prasad in arresting BJP stalwart L K Advani during his ‘Rath Yatra’ in 1990, Tejashwi said, “Nitish Kumar could not have the courage to arrest even a novice BJP leader who did ‘tandav’ at Nathnagar and surrendered before police at his will.”
 
 In an apparent bid to highlight the political bonhomie between Nitish and BJP leaders among the voters of the minority-dominated Jokihat constituency, Tejashwi alleged that Nitish had surrendered before the BJP for remaining in power. “Nitish Kumar insulted people’s popular mandate whereas we are fighting for democracy,” he said, adding Nitish ji gave up secularism by joining hands with those forces who worship Nathuram Godse, the killer of Mahatma Gandhi. 
 
 Earlier on Thursday, Nitish while addressing an election meeting at Udahat in favour of his JD(U) candidate  , had dismissed the opposition’s allegations that he had given up secularism by forming government with the BJP. “Nobody should harbour any illusions. My government is committed to upholding social harmony and those who try to cause disturbances will never be spared,” Nitish had said.
 
 The Jokihat byelection was necessitated after its sitting MLA Sarfaraz Alam quit JD(U) and contested Araria Lok Sabha seat on RJD ticket. The Araria seat had fallen vacant after the demise of his father and sitting RJD MP Mohammad Taslimuddin.
 
 
