PHAGWARA: Hours before the open meeting of the General Samaj Manch here, police on Tuesday arrested nine Dalit activists. While five were arrested in connection with two FIRs registered after a violent clash between right wing Hindu groups and Dalit activists on April 13, four were held for a dispute in which they had thrashed a person in Palahi Gate area.

 The names of the five Dalit activists figured in a common FIR, which mentioned accused from both sides and had serious charges like murder and attempt to murder. After an inquiry by a special investigation team (SIT), charges against the Dalit activists were reportedly made milder and they were arrested under related provisions of the IPC.
 
 Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) president  , who had led the Dalit activists to install a hoarding in Gol Chowk on the national highway to rename it as “Sanvidhaan Chowk” on the evening of April 13, surrendered in the morning before the SP (headquarters) and SIT head Jaskiran Singh Teja. He came to the SP’s office, along with several local Dalit activists and Lok Insaaf Party leader Jarnail Nangal. The remaining accused were arrested from their house.
 
 The manch has been demanding arrest of Nangal and Suman, alleging that they fomented trouble which led to the clash. In the main FIR pertaining to the clash, bullets were fired and a Dalit youth, Yashwant Bobby, died a fortnight after being hit by a bullet in his head while another youth Kulwinder was injured. Part of the original FIR, charges of murder, attempt to murder, defiling a place of worship, provisions of the Arms Act and National Highway Act have not been invoked against the Dalit activists and their arrests have been made on charges of rioting, obstructing officials in discharge of their duty and assaulting them. Section 3 of   to Public and Private Property Act has been added to the FIR.
 
 Police officials revealed that the murder charge was only against the right wing Hindu groups as firing from their side killed one Dalit youth and injured another. The second FIR pertained to assault on ASI Amardeep Singh. It also had the charge of attempt to murder and under the Arms Act. Both these charges, along with a couple of other milder charges, have not been slapped against Dalit activists when they were arrested, sources said.
 
 Apart from Suman, others who were arrested on Tuesday morning, included Baljinder Kumar, Sanjiv Kumar, Davinder Deep and Pardeep Ambedkari. The accused were produced in a local court and they were remanded in judicial custody till May 25. The third case which pertained to attack on Palahi Gate resident Pawan Kumar was registered on April 29. In this case Bobby, Rohit, Surinder and   were sent to jail for seven days.
 
 Kapurthala SSP   said if there was no recovery of any firearm from them then the Arms Act and the murder charge could not be held against them. However, he also said police arrested them under another FIR and their role would be examined accordingly by the court.
 
 
