Chennai: The pool’s cool for the summer but for several Chennaiites, it’s the ocean that offers a true-blue swimming experience. Some are taking to the open waters to get over their fear of the ocean, others to train for endurance events, while a few NRIs are having a go at it to impress buddies on the beaches "back home".

 Parents with children in tow make up more than half of Showkath Jamal’s classes at water sports and surfing school Bay of Life. "  lessons are a mix of theory and practice — students are taught how to judge ocean depth, and understand the difference between currents and how to use them to their advantage."
 
 Damodharan Sampath Kumar, one of Showkath’s students, says he is into it for multiple reasons. "I want to get over my fear of swimming in the sea as I am training for endurance events. Also, I’m take along my seven-year-old daughter; although she can swim, I want her to practise in the ocean before any fears set in," says the 42-year-old.
 
 While Showkath insists that all his students already know how to swim, it’s the technique that he teaches. "The biggest fear most people have is what if the sea pulls them in. What we try and make them understand is that the sea usually throws you out back to the shore," says Showkath, who has many out-of-towners in his classes who learn ocean swimming to prepare for triathlons. 
 
 At Puducherry, ocean water swim instructor Ruslan keeps advertising summer packages, but hardly has any Indians signing up. NRIs and foreign visitors form the majority of his clientele. "I don’t know if it is the fear of getting sun-tanned or the deep waters that stops them," laughs the 48-year-old Ukrainian, who runs AuroSwim. "But I get a good number of triathletes who want to train for open water competitions. Of late, I have NRIs signing up. They say they feel left out when their friends in the US or UK jump into open waters," says Ruslan. "Overseas, there is a very social beach culture. So when they come home to Chennai or   they come to me to learn how to dive in," he adds.
 
 One of the misconceptions people have, he says, is that the bigger the wave the more difficult it is to swim. "You just need to learn to handle the wave, and to interact with the ocean," explains Ruslan, who teaches in the waters off Veerampathinam Beach.
 
 Ocean swimming is not easy and one of the biggest challenges for a swimmer is to stay calm, say coaches. Ruslan advises his students to swim out in groups. "Going 200m or more into the sea changes the perception of the world, and people sometimes panic. Swimming in the ocean is a psychological and spiritual experience more than a form of exercise," he adds.
 
 Showkath’s advice to his students when they panic is to lie on their backs and float. "If you look at most of the incidents of drowning you will find that it is mostly people who did not know swimming. If you are going to swim in the open waters, wear a suit and goggles. Do not go ocean swimming in everyday clothes," he says.
 
 
