Kolkata: A 15-year-old girl undergoing treatment for drug and alcohol abuse at a rehabilitation centre near Tollygunge was allegedly raped by the centre’s owner for three days in a row. The incident comes within days of a youth being beaten to death at another   centre in Sonarpur.

  
  
 
 The owner of the facility near Tollygunge was arrested late on Wednesday and charged under the stringent Pocso Act after the girl’s parents, who had got her admitted to the rehab, lodged an FIR. The rehab centre has officially denied all allegations and said they would contest the matter in court.
 
 The girl, who lives in a municipality area near Kolkata and studies at a prominent English medium school, had been admitted to the rehab on January 16. Her relatives said it was bouts of violent behaviour and her alcohol and drug abuse that worried her parents. Her father is in the insurance sector and her mother has a small business running from home.
 
 The rehab centre, Behala  , has been in operation for four years. Functioning out of a rented house in Muchipara, it is around 3km from the Tollygunge Metro station. According to the rules, the family had access to the girl only once a month. Accordingly, her parents had visited her only thrice before.
 
 The parents had dropped in for a visit on Wednesday, when the girl told them that owner Sanjay Pal, 42, had repeatedly raped her for three days. They lodged an FIR at Behala police station. Pal was arrested at 11pm, and the traumatised girl shifted to a government shelter.
 
 
 
 
 According to the police, the centre had initially been started by two persons. One of them quit and set up another centre in Howrah.
 
 At present, Behala Suraksha Foundation has 56 inmates, seven of whom are female. Neighbours claimed that though the centre admitted females patients, there were no women staff or nurse to attend to them.
 
 The only women around, apart from the inmates, are front office staff. “We often hear screams from inmates. I wouldn’t be surprised if they are regularly beaten up,” said an immediate neighbour.
 
 Relatives of two other inmates said they had a lurking suspicion that something was amiss. “Admission to the centre does not require a doctor’s prescription or advice. I admitted my father a monthand-a-half ago to rid him of alcoholism after doctors at the local Vidyasagar Hospital could not convince him to quit. What we found strange is that they never allowed us beyond the drawing room. I also didn’t see any trained nurse around,” said Nisha Sardar.
 
 Pinky Das, a committee member of the rehab unit, denied all allegations. “It is a concocted case. We will fight it in court,” she said. Proclaiming Pal’s innocence, she alleged the girl who had accused Pal was a psychiatric patient who was also a sex addict.
 
 
 could not contact her psychiatrist to verify the claim. Das further alleged that the girl had framed Pal because she had not been allowed to go home as she had been demanding. “She is undergoing a six-month treatment. But since the past month, she has been insisting she be allowed to return home. Since her pleas were turned down, she took revenge by making this false accusation,” Das said.
 
 
 
 
