BENGALURU: From absence of   cameras in ports to lack of patrol boats at busy landing points, there are several gaps in the state’s coastal security, which the government has begun to identify and plug.

 Among the key issues is the state’s inability to set up a training facility — thanks to the delay in getting the Centre’s nod — which has forced it to consider another option: send personnel to the   for training.
 
 
 On December 29, 2017, key department heads came together at the second state-level coastal security meeting, which brought several of these issues to light. TOI has accessed proceedings of the meeting.
 
 “The proposal to establish the   hasn’t got a response from the Centre despite multiple reminders, which is forcing the state coastal police to resort to Plan B,” said the SP of coastal security. The proposed centre was to come up at an estimated cost of Rs 81crore, but now police are mulling sending batches of personnel to the Coast Guard, the SP added.
 
 Coastal security police have also sought Rs 5 crore to procure interceptor boats and urged the   (ISD), under the home department, to include the proposal in the 2018-19 budget. “The maximum fishing boats are in  , but the coastal police station here has no boat for surveillance. The boat comes from   and goes back. We need a boat to be stationed here,” the   deputy commissioner pointed out.
 
 The state-level coastal security committee decided that coastal police must devise a system wherein one boat is stationed in Honnavar at least for two or three days in a week until more boats are procured in the next phase.
 
 CCTV cameras needed
 
 Among other things, officials have said there is an urgent need to instal CCTV cameras at fishing harbours and enhance vigilance in fishing jetties. “CCTVs need to be installed at all the 12 minor ports, and the package must include software to capture night images and colour coding of boats. It could also cover fish landing points for which strict vigilance has to be maintained through cameras,” the presentation made by ISD officials shows.
 
 The committee has considered the proposal for deployment of security personnel at each of the minor ports at a cost of Rs 3 crore.
 
