KOLHAPUR: The court hearing the bail application of  , an accused in the   murder case, has said that the decision on the plea will be taken on January 30.

 On the second day of hearing, special public prosecutor   said, “Tawade, a full time sadhak of Sanatan Sanstha, was the mastermind of the Pansare killing”. He opposed Tawade’s bail application.
 
 Speaking to reporters after the hearing, Nimbalkar said, “We have told court that Tawade is the mastermind behind the murder of Pansare. He was staying in Kolhapur from 1999 to 2004 and was opposing the work of Pansare. He was full time member of Sanatan Sanstha in Kolhapur and was in touch with absconding accused   and  .”
 
 Speaking on the points raised by Tawade's lawyer regarding discrepancy in the statements of the witnesses, he said, “The first statements of witnesses were taken immediately after the incident. At that time, there are chances that witness may not clearly remember what actually happened and may miss some links, which can be corrected during second statement. Hence, there may be some changes in both statements made by the witnesses. These grounds cannot be used to grant him bail.”
 
 “Pansare had organised a morcha against Karveer's shankaracharya in 2004 and Tawade had organised morcha to condemn Pansare's act. He was opposing the lectures and thoughts of Pansare. He was also in touch with Akolkar and Pawar via e-mail and police have received call details of Tawade and accused  . He also met Sanjay Sadwilkar along with Pawar and Akolkar and had demanded new weapons from him. All these grounds clear that he was mastermind of the attack and as the investigation is progressing, it will not be appropriate to grant him bail,” Nimbalkar said.
 
 Sameer Patwardhan, lawyer of Tawade, had put forth his points demanding bail for the accused on Friday and again stated some points on Saturday.
 
 After hearing both sides, additional and sessions judge L D Bille stated that next hearing of the case will be on January 30.
 
 
