AMRITSAR: The Punjab Human Rights Organization (PHRO) has accused the Amritsar police of ignoring the suicide note and letter to CM   written by Inderpreet Singh Chadha, son of former president of Sikh body Chief   (CKD) Charanjit Singh Chadha. The rights body has also accused the police for selectively mentioning names of persons in the FIR.

 PHRO has now demanded that a special investigation team (SIT), headed by an officer of the level of DGP, be set up to probe the suicide by Inderpreet and into the allegations levelled against him and his father. Inderpreet and his father were booked on the basis of a sexual harassment complaint filed by a woman with the state DGP.
 
 PHRO chairman Justice Ajit Singh Bains (retd) told TOI on Thursday that he had written a letter to chief minister Amarinder Singh stating, “Inderpreet had named the persons responsible. He had also mentioned relation of his brother with the commissioner of police, Amritsar, and an ADGP in the said suicide notes which are in possession of the police of Amritsar.”
 
 Bains said instead of registering an FIR on the basis of the two suicide notes, Amritsar police had registered an FIR on the statement of the son of Inderpreet who was not aware about the facts.
 
 In the FIR lodged on Wednesday at the Amritsar airport police station, Inderpreet’s son   alleged that the persons responsible for the death of his father’s were Surjit Singh, Umat, Kuljit Kaur alias Key Ghuman, Mania, Devinder Sandhu of WWICS, Inderpreet Singh Anand alias Sizee, Gursewak Singh, Hari Singh Sandhu, Bhag Singh Ankhi, Nirmal Singh, one woman and others. Prabhjot alleged that his father was implicated in false cases and police should take action against them as they forced his father to commit suicide.
 
 “From perusal of the suicide notes, it appears that the police have deliberately not registered the FIR on the basis of these two notes. They have not made the contents of the suicide notes part of the FIR and not reproduced the contents of the suicide notes due to the reason that there are allegations levelled against the Amritsar commissioner of police and the ADGP in the said suicide notes,” alleged PHRO principal investigator   Verka. Some family friends Inderpreet had handed over copies of the two suicide notes to him, he added.
 
 In the letter written to the CM, PHRO chairperson has said, “In the said suicide notes, the deceased has given the details and the reasons which forced him to commit suicide and has also levelled allegations of blackmailing against the said woman, her husband and other conspirators. He has also levelled allegations against his brother Harjit Singh Chadha and his business partners and friends and also given details regarding the family property disputes.”
 
 He said not only the SIT should investigate the suicide but also the FIR filed against him and his father since both the cases were interconnected. Despite repeated attempts Amritsar commissioner of police S S Srivastava didn’t pick the phone to comment.
 
 
