THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Senior lawyer   will represent SR   – who has been sitting in front of the   for the past 765 seeking justice for his brother   – at the high court. Sreejeev allegedly died due to custodial torture in 2014. Advocate Kaleeswaram Raj said that he hoped to file a petition before the court without delay. Members of Justice for Sreejith forum said they took a decision after holding talks with Raj.

 Social activist Shyam Thampanoor, who had been supporting Sreejith’s cause for quite some time, said: “We chose him because he was not only an acclaimed lawyer but also known for his interventions outside courtrooms in social issues,” Shyam said.
 
 Members of the forum also consulted lawyers in Thiruvananthapuram, who turned up at the protest venue and offered their support. The lawyers also helped them in drafting a petition to be filed before the high court seeking a CBI probe. Steps were taken to deliver the draft petition to Raj, who is in Kochi, by Monday.
 
 On Sunday, hundreds of people, including youths, senior citizens and women, from across the state turned up in front of the Secretariat to support Sreejith. Actor   was one of the first who voiced support for Sreejith. Former   chief V M Sudheeran and actor Tovino Thomas offered their support. Actor Prithviraj praised Sreejith and termed his act as an embodiment of hope for a generation. “May you know the truth you’re seeking, may you get the justice you deserve and may you find the peace that eludes you!” he wrote on Facebook.
 
 On Sunday, chief secretary  , forwarded a letter to secretary, department of personnel and training under the ministry of personnel, public grievances and pensions seeking intervention for a CBI probe. The CBI had earlier turned down the government’s request citing case load.
 
 Former police complaint authority chairman Justice K Narayana Kurup has said that Sreejeev died in police custody and police had fabricated evidence to the cover up the incident. He added that he had ordered the police chief to constitute a special investigation team to reaffirm the findings and take appropriate action. “There is no need for a CBI probe. Everything is clear if you look at the order from the police complaint authority. There is nothing to unravel. For the sake of propriety, police have to register a crime after examining these people again,” he said.
 
 
