KURUKSHETRA: Vice-President M   honoured nine students of   (KU) with gold medals and merit certificates during the 31st convocation of the varsity here on Thursday. As many as 2,495 students were awarded degrees on the occasion.

 Addressing the gathering, Naidu said proper use of country’s energetic youth and their enthusiasm were required for creating a new India. “Proper use of human resources for our young country is the biggest challenge of the present and the future. If the young generation is given right direction, then India will emerge as a world power,” Naidu said during his address.
 
 In the convocation, 106 students were conferred PhD degrees while 35 received MPhil and postgraduate degrees. The Vice-President gave gold medals and merit certificates to Gaurav Shrivastav (arts and Languages), Reena Saini (sociology), Raveena (biology), Manjeet Kaur (science), Jyoti Ahlawat (education), Saloni Mittal (oriental studies), Shivani (commerce and management), Nishant Kumar Jilova (laws) and Neha (engineering and technology).
 
 Naidu also blamed colonial and foreign rule in India for the lack of respect towards women which was leading to crimes against them.
 
 Without mentioning the barbaric rape of an eightyear-old girl child in Kathua recently or the rape controversy involving a   lawmaker in Uttar Pradesh, Naidu said the Indian tradition had always given a lot of respect to women.
 
 He said as per the Indian tradition, the country is called 'Bharat Mata' (Mother India) while major rivers were given female names and worshipped. The Vice-President said it was shameful that despite such traditions, women were not getting the respect they deserved and that foreign rule, over the centuries, was responsible for this.
 
 Urging the youth and students to shun violence, he said that issues could be resolved peacefully and without damaging public property.
 
 “Democracy allows meaningful debates on all pertaining problems and only constructive debate can provide answers. Protest should be peaceful and no one has the right to destruct public property. Violence cannot be a solution,” Naidu said.
 
 He asked students to be disciplined and have an outlook for the development of the country.
 
 Pointing out to a direct linkage between education and employment, he asked students to acquire knowledge and skill to take up new opportunities.
 
 “Education is not just for employment. It is also for enhancement of knowledge and enlightenment,” he added.
 
