Rajkot/Palanpur/Ahmedabad: The bandh call given by various Rajput community outfits evoked mixed response in the state on Thursday as shops and business establishments that remained closed in the morning returned to routine work by afternoon. Barring Mehsana, which saw violent clashes between the mob and police and some skirmishes in Rajkot city, there was no major untoward incident reported anywhere in the state.

 A PSI suffered skull fracture in heavy stone pelting by a mob belonging to the Rajput community at Maguna crossroads, around 18km from Mehsana town. “The mob resorted to heavy stone pelting and clashed with police. The PSI has suffered a haemorrhage,” said Chaitanya Mandlik, superintendent of police, Mehsana.
 
 Police also lobbed two tear gas shells to disperse a mob of around 800-1,000, most of who were armed with swords. The mob was trying to forcibly close down shops. 
 
 Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS for home and law, however said, “There was not a single incident of violence reported in the state.” In  , most towns and cities observed bandh in the morning hours. The bandh was observed nearly completely in Rajkot, Dhrangadhra, Surendranagar, Halvad, Bhavnagar, Talaja, Mahuva, Mundra, Amreli, Botad, Jamnagar, Manavadar, Morbi and Gondal, where people shivered under fear of   and other outfits.
 
 Skirmishes between shopkeepers and Karni Sena were reported at some places in Rajkot city as they tried to forcibly close down shops. Most schools and colleges remained closed fearing attacks by the Rajput mobs in the city. Multiplexes and other cinema halls, however, started screening other movies by afternoon but the crowd was thin. Around 20 people were rounded near   when they clashed with police which stopped them from forcibly closing the shops. The market yards in Bhavnagar, Rajkot and Morbi remained closed.
 
 In Lakhtar town of Surendranagar, vandals ransacked a laboratory while a mob blocked the Pipavav highway by burning tyres. Post-midnight, rioters burnt tyres on Mota Mava road in Rajkot, Gondal highway and Bhavnagar-Ahmedabad highway.
 
 In north Gujarat, an atmosphere of fear prevailed in Sabarkantha, Patan, Banaskantha and Aravalli districts where bandh was observed in the day time. Close to 141 people were detained across Banaskantha for trying to create trouble and 25 were detained near the Palanpur bus depot before they could attack buses.
 
 Hundreds of passengers going to Rajasthan were stranded at the Palanpur bus depot as   buses did not operate fearing attacks by vandals. Private jeeps and other vehicles took full advantage of the situation and began charging exorbitantly from passengers.
 
 Most multiplexes in Ahmedabad voluntarily downed their shutters to avoid any untoward incident while some who kept open were forced to cancel shows as audiences chose to stay away despite heavy security cover. There was hardly any impact of bandh call as most commercial establishments operated as usual, except for Bapunagar diamond market that was closed. 
 
 In Ahmedabad, 48 people were arrested in connection with Tuesday night’s violence and arson outside multiplexes.
 
 
