MUMBAI: After serving out his five-month suspension by the BCCI on the grounds of a doping violation, former India allrounder   is set to be available at the forthcoming   for Rs 75 lakhs, TOI has learnt.

 
 
  The BCCI, which had told Yusuf not to play for Baroda in the recently-concluded Ranji Trophy, released a statement
 
 on Tuesday revealing that the 35-year old had “inadvertently ingested a prohibited substance, which can be commonly found in cough syrups”.
 
 The BCCI has back-dated the suspension from August 15, 2017, effectively meaning it will end on January 14, 2018. The   auction is scheduled for January 27 &28 in Bangalore.
 
 
 
 
 
 Yusuf played for the Rajathan Royals in IPL from 2008 to 2010, before he joined the   in 2011. Yusuf’s brother, ex-India all-rounder Irfan Pathan, who went unsold in the last auction, has kept his base price at Rs 50 lakhs. “Yusuf has been amongst the most successful middle-order batsmen in the IPL, while Irfan has been one of the most prolific allrounders in the league. The franchises are likely to gun for them,” said a source.
 
 Apparently, the capped players have been given the option to keep their base price in the auction at Rs 50 lakhs, Rs 1cr, Rs 1.50 cr, and Rs 2 crore. While it’s confirmed that veteran players Gautam Gambhir and   have set their base price at Rs 2 crore, the others who’re likely to figure in the top bracket are India leggie Yuzvendra Chahal, star bat and current discard Yuvraj Singh, West Indians Chris Gayle, Dwayne Bravo and Kieron Pollard, and Kiwi great Brendon McCullum.
 
 This is the first time since MI bought him in the inaugural IPL auction in 2008 that Harbhajan, who is the third-highest wicket-taker in the IPL history (127 scalps in 136 games@26.54), will be available in the IPL auction. “He played for MI for 10 years, which explains his immense value. He was their first captain to get them a title. He’s captaincy material, has gone for 6.95 runs per over, vastly experienced. He’s amongst the top wicket-takers in the IPL, and is a useful batsman down the order. This is the first time that he’ll be available in the auction. Having him in the side, one gets not just match-winning ability, but someone who takes the team along with him. He can mentor and develop the youngsters in the team.
 
 “I’ve had a great decade-long relationship with MI. I’ll look to bowl well and win games for whichever team I play for in the IPL. Let’s see what happens at the auction,” said Harbhajan.
 
 
