BENGALURU: Astronomers scoff at theterm, but millions of viewers in India and around the world will not be too bothered as they take in the sight of a relatively rare phenomenon — a blood moon — on January 31. The earth’s satellite will appear a deep red during a total lunar eclipse on that day and viewers will be treated to the spectacle provided the skies are clear.

 Astronomers, however, say the moon appears red during all eclipses. Only the shade differs. If there is anything spectacular about the blood moon, they say, it only goes to show how much humans have polluted the earth’s atmosphere. “It is a bit of hype,” said H R  , senior scientific officer,  . “There is nothing special. All lunar eclipses, depending on the dust present in the atmosphere, can makethe moon look anywhere from faint red to deep red. Deep red is only a grim reminder that there are more dust particles in the atmosphere.”
 
 Technically, the moon should not be visible during an eclipse because it would be hidden in earth’s shadow. Astronomers say anything in the shadow region should not be visible if it shines with reflected light (like the moon).
 
 
  
  
 
 “It should be black,” Madhusudan said. “Butit appears reddish because of a scattering of light by the earth’s atmosphere. While the shade of red changes, the object itself is always red during eclipses,” he said, adding that it is because of the same reason (scattering) that the  .
 
 Astronomer T S Ganesh, who agreed with Madhusudan, claimed that the phenomenon willbe visiblein theUS after 150 years. India and other parts of the world had recorded a blood moon in 1982 and 1963. Madhusudan revealed descriptions of a blood moon have been recorded even in the works of mathematician-astronomer Aryabhatta as early as 576AD. He attributed the dust in the atmosphere then to more active volcanoes.
 
 “The brightness of the Moon is considerably reduced when it is in earth’s shadow, and the atmosphere acts like a filter. Particles in the  , letting through only the orange or red portion of thespectrum. It may appear blood red when seen through a highly polluted atmosphere,”he said.
 
