If there is any struggle we face on a daily basis, it is the battle between our mind and body. Most of us do everything and anything it takes to be healthy, but it’s only our mind that becomes the limiting factor towards achieving our health goals. Yoga, meditation and deep breathing are definitely amongst the most sought-after ways to work towards mental well being, but there is an even more powerful way (one that has always existed!) that can help one penetrate deeper into emotional cleansing. That’s Dry Fasting or Absolute Fasting. It means intentional abstinence from all food and water for a particular time frame which could be for 12 hrs, 16 hrs, 24 hrs or even up to 36 hrs depending upon an individual’s comfort level. This discipline is followed across religions worldwide, be it Christianity, Islam, Buddhism, Jainism or Judaism for its health and spiritual benefits. 

  
 When we allow a complete shutdown of our digestive system, we save almost 80% of our energy expenses. This could have a positive effect on brain function, particularly mood, temperament, secretion of neurotransmitters and enhancing sleep. In the complete absence of water,   also helps calm inflammation and slow down generation of free radicals that boost cognitive function and also delay brain aging. Thanks to evolution, our bodies have been well adapted to times of food scarcity. When food is scarce our bodies try to respond to this kind of stress by releasing feel- good chemicals to help protect our brain. However, its effectiveness may not be seen at the first or second attempt, but with persistence one does experience a gradual change in brain chemistry and moments of intense mental and emotional well-being. 
 
 Studies have shown that fasting increases the production BNDF (brain derived neurotrophic factor) in the body which means our brain is more likely to build new neural connections. Yes, we have read time and again that skipping a meal can lead to a foggy mental state, but the effects of longer bouts of dry fasting actually heals your mind and stabilises mental state. All in all, dry fasting aligns our bodies and mind with nature and the closer one gets to nature, the more grounded, humble and serene one becomes. 
 
 Consult a doctor before trying out any remedy
 
 By: 
 
 
 
