PATIALA: High   was witnessed outside the office of   vice-chancellor when a   alleging mental torture from the last three years by university professors of the physics department.

 Upset over losing three academic years despite being selected as a research scholar, Kulwinder Kaur also threatened to commit suicide in front of the V-C office. She alleged caste discrimination against her as she belonged to Scheduled Caste category. Following this, the dean girls hostel immediately called the entire physics faculty to inquire into the matter. A meeting was held with the student where faculty members, including her guide, tried to convince the girl to calm down and rationally discuss the issue with them. 
 
 The scholar claimed that three years ago a professor in the physics department had said that she would not let her complete her research. “Three years ago, I got admission in the university to do PhD in Physics but the professor did not want me here as she was annoyed with me over some issue. I uploaded my story on Facebook following which the professor lodged a case of defamation against me and I had to apologise to her as part of compromise in the police station. My father and I pleaded with a number of professors to help me in my research, but in vain. Now after two years my guide was changed in April last and Dr Jaspal Singh became my guide, but it looks like he too is under the influence of other professors. I am being asked to go to private Thapar University or any other private lab to conduct the study as part of my research work. My attendance is not being marked in the university,” Kulwinder alleged.
 
 Meanwhile, assistant professor Jaspal Singh has denied all allegations. “I had helped the scholar in every way and at times I also went out of the way to help her with her research. She does not come to the university and her attendance almost nil. Next month her seminar will be conducted and she does not want to appear there. This is the reason why she is levelling false allegation against us. There is no caste discrimination at all as there are other professors in our department who belong to the SC community and have passed out from here.”
 
 The scholar however later met the VC Professor BS Ghuman who assured her for every help including the financial help.
 
 
