AURANGABAD: The South Central Railway ( ) has eliminated 60 unmanned level crossings across the divisions within the first two months of the current fiscal, an official release said. With this development, almost entire Telangana and most of Andhra Pradesh have become safer with respect to UMLCs.

 The authorities said that by September-end the remaining (UMLCs) will also be gotten rid of. There are 87 UMLCs still remaining in different parts of the Zone. “We have prepared a roadmap to eliminate the remaining UMLCs as well,” SCR authorities said.
 
 The UMCLs are present on all routes for over a decade. The crossings have caused several avoidable accidents that resulted in loss of life with trains running over not just humans, but animals as well. The Centre had taken up the task to eliminate UMCLs several years ago.
 
 While division-wise break up of the removed and existing UMLCs was not available readily, however, Hyderabad Division of SCR has eliminated all such crossings on all routes in its jurisdiction with completion of Road Under Bridge at the last UMLC on May 25. “Secunderabad and Vijayawada divisions have already achieved the target by eliminating all the UMLCs,” SCR chief public relations officer M Umashankar Kumar said.
 
 Notably, the SCR had eliminated 137 UMLCs during the financial year 2017-18 through various measures like manning the gates, construction of road under-bridges and subways and by diversion of road traffic.
 
 In order to provide enhanced safety and avoid loss of human lives due to accidents at UMLCs, SCR general manager   has focused on elimination of all UMLCs over the Zone, an official release said.
 
 The   has taken many steps towards reducing accidents at UMLCs with 79% reduction in accidents involved in such arrangements in the last four years. 
 
 As per official data, 47 accidents in 2013-14 reduced to 10 in 2017-18. The average rate of elimination of UMLCs has also increased by nearly two-thirds over the last four years.
 
 Simultaneous execution of work on track sections is one of the measures the Indian Railways has adopted to speed up elimination of unsafe railway crossings.
 
 
