GURUGRAM: The proposed Gurugram-Manesar MRTS (mass rapid transport system) has hit a land hurdle. 

 The route, which starts from Huda City Centre and ends in   via   Road is clashing with another infrastructure project — the proposed Gurugram-Sohna elevated expressway. According to officials involved in the project, from Huda City Center, the metro route goes through Subhash Chowk, Vatika Chowk and Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) to Manesar. But with the proposed Gurugram-Sohna elevated   cutting across this route between Huda City Centre and Vatika Chowk, there is no right of way (RoW) for the metro.
 
 “NHAI has denied metro authorities RoW, as the elevated highway is already planned there, so we’re currently trying to find a solution with HSIIDC, without which there won’t be a metro route alignment,” said GMDA CEO V Umashankar. Industry body HSIIDC is in charge of the metro project. 
 
 Still, the option to acquire land for RoW hasn’t yet been ruled out. There is a green belt on either side of the existing road, along which, there are overhead high-tension (H-T) electricity cables, as well as major underground sewage and water pipelines. 
 
 If the Gurugram-Manesar metro link is built along the proposed route, it will have to acquire land of these green belts, which will then require all these utility lines — H-T cables, sewage and water supply — to be shifted.
 
 Already running behind schedule, the 30km-long MRTS, estimated to cost Rs 9,000 crore, is now staring at further delay because of the land hurdle. HSIIDC officials have been negotiating with the Japanese International Cooperation Agency (JICA) for almost four years since 2014 to fund the project. Sources within HSIIDC said talks with JICA for the funding are at an advanced stage.
 
 In a proposed second phase, this metro line will be extended to Bawal, with Neemrana proposed to be linked in the third phase. Put together, the cost of all three phases of the 110km-long project is estimated at Rs 16,000 crore.
 
 
