PUNE: The CBI has filed a final report in the RTI activist Satish Shetty’s murder case, stating it did not come across any fresh evidence in its re-investigation over the past three years.

 Abhishekh Dayal, the CBI’s chief public relations officer in New Delhi, told TOI over phone on Wednesday, “The final report has been filed a few days back in a Pune court. We have neither named any person in the report nor have we given a clean chit to any person as the CBI has not come across any fresh evidence on the basis of which more persons can be charge-sheeted in the case. In case the CBI comes across any fresh evidence in the future in relation to the assailants and the conspirators, we will conduct a fresh probe.”
 
 Shetty’s brother, Sandeep, the complainant in the case, said, “I have not received any information from the CBI regarding the final report, but I have come to know from other sources that the probe agency has filed it. I have not yet received any copy of it. I am expecting the court, where the report is said to have been filed, will issue me summons for a hearing on the acceptance or rejection of the final report.”
 
  was murdered near his house at Talegaon Dabhade on January 13, 2010. Investigators suspect the motive behind his murder was a criminal case he had lodged with the Lonavla city police in 2009 alleging conspiracy by officials of a Mumbai’s infrastructure development company and the revenue department to grab massive tracts of land near Lonavla, off the Pune-Mumbai Expressway.
 
 The CBI’s final report comes close on the heels of a special CBI court in Pune ordering on March 28 the discharge of the chairman and managing director and another official of the infrastructure development company besides, two corporate entities from the land-grab case.
 
 On Wednesday, the company filed a disclosure with the Bombay and the national stock exchanges claiming that it had received a copy of the CBI’s report in relation to the RTI activist’s murder and it exonerated the company officials from any involvement in the matter.
 
 The   was initially investigated by the Pune Rural police’s local crime branch (LCB) before the Bombay high court ordered transfer of the probe to the CBI. The LCB had charge-sheeted five accused in the case. The CBI later stated in a supplementary charge-sheet that the probe was botched up by two LCB officials to shield the actual culprits. Two of these accused have since died and the other three are out on bail.
 
 On August 11, 2014, the CBI’s Pune unit had filed a closure report before a judicial magistrate first class at Vadgaon Maval stating that there was “no prosecutable evidence” against some suspects, whose names emerged during the agency’s investigation. Complainant Sandeep moved the high court against it. The CBI informed the high court on March 9, 2015 that it would re-investigate the case and that the probe was being transferred to the CBI’s Delhi special crime unit-II.
 
 In April 2016, the CBI arrested former LCB officials, inspector Bhausaheb Andalkar and API Namdev Kauthale, for conspiracy to shield real culprits. In July, a sessions court granted them bail.
 
 
