NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old woman and her one-year-old son were found murdered in their house on Tuesday morning in northwest Delhi’s Jahangirpuri. Police said they were looking for the woman’s husband, Om Prakash (32), who has been   since the incident.

 
 The bodies of Shobha and Anil were discovered by the former’s brother-in-law, who informed the police. The two were immediately taken to a nearby hospital, but were declared brought dead. DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said a case under Section 302 (murder) of IPC was registered.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The couple’s older son (6), who was also sleeping in the room but was spared the bloodbath, told police that his parents went to bed after dinner. He suddenly woke up to commotion in the room and saw his father repeatedly stabbing his mother and infant brother, police said. The man then ran away from the room. Police said they had started investigations on the basis of the boy’s statement.
 
 The family stayed in the slums of G-block in Jahangirpuri. The couple had got married 13 years ago. Neighbours said their relationship had soured of late and the two often fought. For nearly a year now, Shobha had been staying at her parents’ place and it was only last week that she had returned to her husband.
 
 On Monday night, too, the couple reportedly had a huge fight and police said the murders were probably trigerred by that incident. The bodies were sent for autopsy and the woman’s relatives informed. The accused reportedly stayed in the house till at least 6am. 
 
 Police said they were working on multiple angles in the case. It is suspected that their poor financial condition was largely responsible for the acrimonious relationship, as the accused had been without a job for quite some time. 
 
 The surviving child was being counselled by psychiatrists, police said. Investigators are looking at CCTV footage from the area to gain information about the escape route taken by the accused. Neighbours, friends and relatives were also being questioned for clues, police said.
 
 
