AHMEDABAD: A 19-year-old girl from the Dudheshwar areas of the city filed a complaint with Madhavpura police, accusing a group of people of getting her married off forcibly in Patan district. After six months there, she managed to return home. Police recorded a complaint for voluntarily causing hurt, wrongful confinement and kidnapping to compel her into marriage. The case will be investigated by Shahpur police, Madhavpura police officials said.

 Investigators said Payal, (last name withheld to protect identity), 19, would accompany her mother on cooking and catering assignments. She is the third of her parents’ six children. Six months ago, a youth identified as Munno, a resident of Shahpur, offered her a job as a cook and promised to pay her Rs 300 a day.
 
 “She accompanied him to  , where they boarded a bus to Mehsana and one to Patan from there. They were received by Amarsinh Thakor, a resident of Sami, and Daksha Thakor, a resident of Kalol, in Patan. The group then went to   near   in Patan district, where she was first kept at the residence of Abha Thakor and was held captive for three days. She was then taken to the residence of  , where Amrat allegedly paid Abha and Munna Rs 60,000,” said an investigator.
 
 Payal was then married to Amrat and started living at his residence. According to the complaint, she tried to flee a few times, but was caught and taken back by Amrat’s relatives. One day she got hold of a phone and called her mother. Her mother then went to Dhrandva, but was not allowed to meet her. Her mother then approached the   high court for intervention with hebeas corpus. The HC directed Bhabhar police to bring the girl after which she returned to the city. At that time, the family realized that she was pregnant.
 
 V N Rabari, inspector of Madhavpura police station, said the investigation has been handed to Shahpur police due to jurisdiction issues. “We have not been able to question the girl,” he said. Officials said the statements of all accused will be recorded first.
 
 
