PATNA: With only a day left for the end of online submission of forms for admission to the three-year degree courses in arts, science and commerce in different colleges,   (PU) has received more than 17,000 applications from students. At least 1,000 more applications are expected to be submitted by Thursday evening.

 
 There are as many as 3,500 seats in arts, science and commerce streams in all the colleges of PU, except Patna Women’s College. There are 1,650 seats (600 each in Patna College and B N College and 450 in Magadh Mahila College) in arts stream, whereas there are altogether 650 seats (400 in   and 250 in   under self-financing scheme) in commerce stream. Besides, in the faculty of science, there are altogether 1,206 seats, including 600 in  , 350 in B N College and 256 in Magadh Mahila College.
 
 Patna Women’s College, which is also a constituent unit of PU, has 600 seats in BA Part I honours course, 250 in BSc Part I and 300 in BCom Part I under the self-financing scheme. But this college admits students to different courses on its own without participating in the common entrance test conducted by PU.
 
 Till date, PU has received as many as 7,581 applications for admission to BSc Part I courses and 5,649 applications for admission to the BA Part I honours courses. The number of applications received for admission to BCom Part I honours course is 3,463.
 
 Now, the combined facultywise entrance tests for admission to BA, BCom and BSc honours courses will be held on June 9, 11 and 12, respectively. The dates of entrance tests for admission to various undergraduate self-financing/ vocational courses have also been fixed. Admission to all the undergraduate courses will begin on July 1 and end on July 9.
 
 The details of admission process and the arrangements to be made for conducting entrance test were discussed at a meeting of principals and admission in charge of different colleges under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh on Wednesday. Keeping in view the large number of applicants, particularly in science and arts streams, it was decided to hire some venue outside PU for conducting the entrance tests.
 
 Besides having entrance test centres at Patna Women’s College, Magadh Mahila College, B N College, Patna College, Patna Science College and Patna Law College, the PU authorities are thinking of hiring the premises of Nalanda Open University, B D Public School or Rammohun Roy Seminary for conducting the entrance test.
 
 Meanwhile, the last date for submission of applications for admission to the PhD course of PU has been extended till June 9, according to a PU notification.
 
 
