In the latest episode of  ,   shows  's sketch to Mangesh and asks if he recognizes the place. On being questioned, he tells him that he has to meet a friend there. Mangesh tells them that the place that they are talking about is called the Walking Street. Both of them head for it.

 Kanak and Uma share a few light moments when they get to the Walking Street. Kanak sees the same logo on a building and tells Uma that   must be somewhere around. 
 
 Palomi is seen dancing in a bar as Kanak and Uma continue to look for her. The two of them reach the bar. Kanak gets a call and she recognizes Palomi's voice on the other end.
 
 Next, Aditya enters the bar and drags Palomi away. Kanak calls back the number from which Palomi had called and they learn from him that the former was taken away by a man. Just then the two of them spot Palomi and Aditya.
 
 Palomi, on the other hand, tries to free herself from Aditya and say that they have tricked her. She has a flashback in which she recalls how Maasi had told her that she was declared dead and Uma has been taken into custody for her murder. Maasi also told her that once Uma is out of the way it will be easy to get rid of Kanak and once she is taken care of, Palomin can step-in to fill her place. She could then settle with Uma in Bangkok.
 
 Palomi continues to struggle to free herself and she tells Aditya that she wants to clear the air so that Uma is set free. Aditya says she is just a puppet and is brought here to be misused. He drags her away. 
 
  
 Kanak tells Uma that only Palomi can prove his innocence and expose Maasi’s heinous act. Both of them return to the hotel room.
 
 Rani returns and gives them a file which has Matruved pharma’s owner’s office, house, club address and every other detail. She said that she got all the details from Mangesh.
 
 Uma walks away in a huff to confront Maasi sa but Kanak stops him in his track. She tells him that they need to plan first and then expose her. Keep watching this space to know what happens next.
 
