MYSURU: The   that lashed the city the last week might have provided citizens much-needed respite from the summer heat, but it has left Mysuru   pockmarked with  . Among the worst hit are roads in residential areas, where the tar has peeled away leaving them extremely hard to negotiate.

 Meanwhile, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) officials have assured citizens that they are monitoring the problem, and further added that repair work will be undertaken.
 
 However, with the city’s roads being damaged extensively by a few pre-monsoon showers, residents are worried about the effect that the monsoons, which is barely a month away, will have on the city’s roads. Pointing out that the asphalt was wearing off even on some of the newly laid roads, the residents said, “This is an indication that the MCC is not prepared for the monsoons.”
 
 Bogadi resident Shyamala complainedthat most roads in the locality were strewn with potholes in the aftermath of the showers. “We have been demanding that the roads and drains in our area be fixed. But no work has been undertaken till now. The rain that lashed the city last week shows that a lot needs to be done to prepare Mysuru for the monsoon season,” she said.
 
 Cutting across localities, residents have the same grievances. Ashokapuram resident Ramakrishna Rao said that, barring the main road in the area, the remaining streets were covered with slush, owing to overflow of sewage water from the drains. “This is a problem that recurs every year. The authorities concerned repair only the main roads. No work has been taken up to repair inner roads,” Rao said.
 
 Data from the Indian Meteorological Department shows that, Mysuru received 32.8mm rainfall between April 26 and May 2, which is twice the normal amount of rainfall the city receives in this duration. Mysuru has received 124.6mm rain since March 1.
 
 Oddly enough, an officer from MCC told TOI that the civic body had received no complaints about poor condition of roads in the aftermath of heavy showers. “All the major roads are in a good condition. Although most of our personnel are on election duty, we are responding to public grievances. If we receive a specific complaint, we will undertake repair of that specific road at the earliest,” he said.
 
 
