VASAI:   deputy general manager  , who was killed in the helicopter crash on Saturday, had cheated death in a major Bombay High blaze more than a decade ago. He was not supposed to fly on Saturday but his name was added to the rota at the last minute after two of his colleagues dropped out.

 But on July 27, 2005, Babu had a miraculous escape during the Bombay High fire, ONGC officials told TOI. A vessel had then collided with the offshore Bombay High north platform, 160km west off the city’s coast, causing a major fire that resulted in 11 deaths.
 
 “Babu was one of the 100-odd survivors of that disaster. He floated in the sea for around five and a half hours before being rescued,” said Thomas Chacko, Babu’s colleague, who was at Nanavati Hospital on Saturday.
 
 Babu’s family and friends have demanded strict action against those responsible for the mishap as they gathered at Babu’s Vasai apartment.
 
 Babu is survived by wife Shyni, who is a diabetologist, daughter Vibisha, a Class XII science student, and son  , who is in Class III. Shyni runs her practice in Vasai West. The family resides in   at Vasai East.
 
 “I used to bump into Babu on Sundays when he would be out on his walks and I would be headed to the church. He was always very cordial,” said a neighbour. A snack vendor operating from a society adjacent to Babu’s said he had seen Babu four days ago when he came to pick up snacks. “He was always smiling,” said the vendor.
 
 Babu and his family moved into Evershine City in 2010. “We have seen his son grow up here. Till a few years ago, he was also overseeing operations in the North-East. Every fortnight, he would shunt between Mumbai and the North-East. He said he loved the fresh food there,” said another neighbour.
 
 Babu’s friend of 15 years, Shivkumar, said he had been with ONGC for decades. “In fact, he returned from a work-related trip only two days ago,” said Shivkumar. Shyni’s parents, who live close to the couple, were among the first to rush to Babu’s apartment after news of the mishap poured in in the afternoon. “Babu’s daughter is a very good student. She has managed to stay strong for her mother’s sake,” said a relative. “The entire family is humble. We saw him last night after he came from work and never imagined we wouldn’t see him again,” said a society resident.
 
