Mumbai:   counsel   on Friday questioned the “alacrity” with which  , despite his removal as executive chairperson and even after filing of the petition, replied to a notice from the   giving details that were not even sought. Singhvi said Mistry’s conduct only “reflected his biased and vindictive mindset”.

 It was the last day in a marathon hearing before the   ( ) in the Tata-Mistry saga where the ousted chairperson’s family-held companies — two minority shareholders of Tata Sons — had alleged mismanagement and oppression by the holding group. The ultimate relief being sought was winding up of Tata Sons, a $103-billion conglomerate. 
 
 Senior counsels for the Mistry camp — C A Sundaram and Janak Dwarkadas — had in detailed arguments stressed that the act of removing Mistry itself was oppressive to minority shareholders’ rights and the Mistry group, which held 18 % stake, ought to continue to have a member on the Tata board. Mistry, after his October 2016 removal as chairman, was removed as director, too, five months later. Singhvi said, “Had his conduct been restrained, there would have been no reason to remove him as director too.” He added that Mistry “acted in a reprehensible manner”. “He became a Trojan horse and attacked Tata Sons with pure vendetta and gratuitously sent 1,667 pages of documents even though they mostly had no relation to the questions asked by I-T. He completely violated his fiduciary obligations since he continued as director till February 2017.”
 
 Arguing for the whole day before he concluded, as did the hearing, Singhvi elaborated on five issues in his surrejoinder. He said the law clearly allows removal of a chairperson and director and Mistry was removed by a majority of seven out of nine, Mistry being one who didn’t vote for his removal and one had abstained. Singhvi delved into legal semantics on use of word “prejudice” in the new 2013 Companies Act and said that Mistry failed to prove any. 
 
 On conversion from public to private company, Singhvi said that at all times for over 100 years, irrespective of the changes in Indian law, Tata Sons had always “remained a company exhibiting private characteristics”. It was never a full true public limited company and was a hybrid, being essentially private but treated like public mainly on account of excess turnover. He said things had come a full circle under the 2013 Act where the definition of a private company fit Tata Sons like a glove. “All that they were now seeking was a formal declaration of this status by a process of conversion available to them under the Act,” he said. 
 
 Another senior counsel for the Tata camp, Gopal Mukherjee, also refuted the conversion allegation. 
 
 Mistry’s counsel Sundaram had argued that the conversion was another oppressive move. Sundaram had attacked article 75 in the company memorandum of association as a tool for oppression as it allows compulsory purchase of shares of any shareholder including Mistry. Singhvi refuted by saying that it had remained on the statute book for over 100 years and never challenged by the Mistry family either as shareholders or directors for over 52 years. He said “full and fair compensation is provided” for such purchase, determined by an independent valuer. He said “such restrictions like Article 75 were commonplace and not unique to Tata Sons, and hence not illegal”.
 
 Singhvi said the provisions for “affirmative vote” were perfectly legal and a common feature. The veto power, he reminded, was never used by the trusts even once. 
 
 The last day, with the courtroom packed with over 50 lawyers from both sides including many from Delhi, saw a face-off too when Singhvi objected to a written note on mismanagement by the Mistry camp on the grounds that it raised new arguments for the first time going beyond the scope of pleadings in an “ambush action”. The NCLT questioned Mistry counsel Somasekhar Sundaresan if that were so. Sundaresan questioned the allegations and said there were clear answers and that he would file a note on it. The NCLT has reserved the matter for final orders.
 
 
