MUMBAI: The Supreme Court has ordered attachment of all properties of the city-based Goenka family that owns popular restaurant chains like Rajdhani, Falafels, United Sports Bar & Grill, Palette, etc. and has strategic investments in Masala Library, Mad Over Donuts, Social, Smoke House Deli and Farzi Cafe.

 A group of investors had moved markets regulator   and the SC alleging that the Goenkas of  , through illegal collective investment schemes, had defrauded about 18 lakh investors of about Rs 4,900 crore and siphoned off a part of it outside India, a charge the Goenkas refuted.
 
 Omprakash Goenka, chairman, Mirah Group, said its restaurant business is under a separate group. “The SC order covers only the real estate business,” said Goenka.
 
 A bench of Justices Rohinton Fali Nariman and Abhay Manohar Sapre has appointed a four-member committee to oversee the sale of properties belonging to Royal Twinkle Star Club, Citrus Check Inns and their associates/sister concerns, all belonging to the Goenkas. The court has also appointed global major Deloitte to carry out a forensic audit of all the group companies, currently numbering about 88 with the option to include other companies owned by the Goenkas if they are found, said Rahul Gaikwad, partner, Gravitas Legal, one of the counsels for the investors.
 
 The case dates back to early 2014, when Sebi, for the first time, had imposed a ban on Royal Twinkle Star Club from collecting money from investors and then in mid-2015, it also put a ban on Citrus Check Inns. It was for alleged violation of rules governing collective investment schemes. Following protracted litigation in the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT),   (NCLT), National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT), the investors finally moved the apex court. Goenka said Sebi has failed to prove that money collected under Royal Twinkle Star Club and Citrus Check Inns were for time-share holidays and those were neither unauthorised CIS nor under any Ponzi scheme.
 
 On April 26, the SC bench had ordered representatives of Sebi and the petitioners, along with resolution professional (RP for NCTL) to meet. At the meeting it was decided that the apex court should give directions about formation of a sale-cum-monitoring committee and the steps it should take. Subsequently, a panel comprising the RP, one Sebi representative, one investor representative and one representative of Royal Twinkle Star Club, Citrus Check Inns and their associates/sister concerns was formed. It will now appoint registered valuers to value “the properties unearthed during the insolvency process of Royal Twinkle Star Club and Citrus Check Inns”, including their associates and sister concerns.
 
 “We also appoint Deloitte as the special auditor to carry out the forensic audit not only of Royal Twinkle Star Club and Citrus Check Inns but of their associates/sister concerns, which at present number 88. If any more sister or associate concerns are unearthed after the date of this order, they shall conduct a forensic audit for the same,” the SC order said.
 
 The judges also directed promoters and directors of companies controlled by the Goenkas to “disclose on affidavit their personal assets worldwide before this court within eight weeks”.
 
 
