NEW DELHI: The   asked politicians on Tuesday to maintain decorum and refrain from using derogatory language against rivals, especially those holding constitutional posts, as it took exception to the language used against Delhi CM Arvind   during recent protests against the sealing drive. 

 A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta criticised the use of derogatory language against Kejriwal, used in placards during protests by BJP leaders against the ongoing sealing drive, saying it was not acceptable.
 
 “Have some respect for people who are holding constitutional posts. You are telling people that you can say whatever you want against the chief minister because he is not from your party. You are destroying the institution. Today it is one CM, tomorrow such language could be used against CM of other states and also against the Prime Minister. We cannot allow people to insult CMs and PM. It is not acceptable,” the court said.
 
 The court took cognisance of insults hurled at Kejriwal after watching a video grab of an incident in which Shahdara BJP MLA O P Sharma and municipal councillor Gunjan Gupta are seen protesting against the sealing drive. The court had earlier issued contempt notice to them for allegedly interfering in the court-monitored sealing drive and had asked them to appear before it.
 
 The court after going through the CD, filed by   appointed monitoring committee, came to the conclusion that they were not obstructing the committee from carrying out its duty and dropped the contempt proceedings against them. But before they were let off, the court expressed displeasure over derogatory remarks made against the chief minister which was grabbed in the video footage and asked them to tell their supporters not to insult public functionaries through banners or placards.
 
 The bench also said that the sealing drive was initiated on the direction of the apex court and the CM of Delhi had nothing to do with it.
 
 “We have gone through the CD filed by the Monitoring Committee. It appears that the alleged contemnors were only discussing the matter with police authorities with a view to convince them that the sealing operation should not continue. In our opinion, this does not amount to contempt of the orders of this court or obstructing the monitoring committee and the Delhi Police from carrying out its functions,” the court said. 
 
 
