NEW DELHI: There was chaos in   when students came out in large numbers on Wednesday to support a fellow student who has accused a college teacher of sexually harassing her. While the victim met the college   for the first time on the day, many students accused the authorities of not providing support to her. The college administration has now initiated a probe and sent the teacher on 'extraordinary leave'. 

  A large number of girls assembled outside the principal's room and demanded action against the professor who has been accused of sending lewd messages to girl students. In a video in circulation in the college for three days, several girls can be seen confronting the teacher and even slapping him for his misconduct. 
 
 Demanding punitive action against the teacher, the college's student union too claimed to have submitted a written complaint to the administration after the video went viral, "but no action has been taken". 
 
  Officiating principal Mukti Sanyal said that she was awaiting the student's complaint letter to reach the college from the vice-chancellor's office, until which the accused teacher had been sent on leave. The professor himself told TOI , "I will participate fully in the investigation and comply with ICC's decision." He, however, maintained that he has been falsely accused. 
 
  Though the complainant recorded her statement before ICC, members of Delhi University Students' Union and the National Students' Union of India assembled near the principal's room and demanded to know why the college complaints panel had not been fully constituted till date. "Only after the video went viral did the college call an election to choose student members for ICC, as stipulated in UGC's guidelines on the panel," alleged Akshay Lakra, Delhi state president, NSUI. "The principal told us she hadn't felt the need for the election before this incident." 
 
 Principal Sanyal, however, contradicted this view, saying that though the college wanted to implement the UGC guidelines on the representation of students in ICC, "when we constituted the panel in November, the students were on leave". "We decided to conduct elections on January 15, and we were in the process of making preparations when this case cropped up," Sanyal said. 
 
  Accepting that the college could have done more to create confidence in the student for her to complain to the Bharati College ICC, Shobhana Sinha, member of the body, said, "I want more students to reach us, so we are planning an awareness drive." 
 
 
