NEW DELHI: The   on Thursday upheld the constitutional validity of a key provision in the anti-money laundering law while rejecting 19 pleas, including that of former Himachal Pradesh chief minister Virbhadra Singh’s wife and daughter.

 The clause in the Prevention of   Act ( ) empowers   to provisionally attach the properties allegedly bought from proceeds of crime.
 
 Apart from Singh’s family, sand mining baron and former Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams (TTD) Board member J Sekar Reddy and his business associates S Ramachandran and K Rethinam had also challenged the constitutional validity of section 5(1) second proviso, which deals with the power of an officer not below the rank of deputy director in the ED to provisionally attach a person’s property suspected to be brought from proceeds of crime, if he has “reasons to believe” that not doing so could frustrate the PMLA proceedings.
 
 A bench of Justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta, in a 48-page judgment, said “the second proviso to Section 5(1) PMLA is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution and the challenge in that regard in these petitions is hereby negatived.”
 
 HC found nothing in the clause that is “so excessive and disproportionate so as to render it arbitrary”. The court, while upholding the validity of the provision of PMLA, however, clarified that ED must communicate the ‘reasons to believe’ at every stage to the person to whom an attachment notice was being issued under the Act.
 
 “If there is a violation of the legal requirements, the order of the provisional attachment would be rendered illegal,” it noted, adding that a person being prosecuted by ED is entitled access to the materials on record that would constitute the basis for ‘reasons to believe’, subject to redaction for reasons to be recorded in writing.
 
 The various accused in two separate cases challenged the ED’s FIR against them, provisional attachment orders regarding their assets and all further proceedings.
 
 HC said the expression ‘reasons to believe’ has to meet the safeguards in-built in the clause and has to satisfy the requirement of the law.
 
 Another question of law before the bench was if a single member of the adjudicating authority of ED can exercise powers and conduct proceedings relating to provisional attachment of assets and should it be a judicial member.
 
 In answer, the court held that there can be single-member benches of the adjudicating authority and appellate tribunal under the PMLA and such single-member benches need not mandatorily have to be judicial members.
 
 In the money laundering case against Virbhadra and his wife, ED had attached assets worth nearly Rs 5.8 crore belonging to Pratibha Singh and Rs 1.34 crore of the former chief minister.
 
