PATIALA: Two years have passed when   of   lost his younger son   in an operation against terrorists in   on January 2, 2016. However, his memories are still alive in the hearts of the family members. 

 They got the promised compensation of Rs 20 lakh and a government job for the martyr's wife. However, they wish that a promise of constructing a gate in the name of their martyred son should be fulfilled as it would give them satisfaction.
 
 "It is a matter of respect for my son who had died for the country while fighting terrorists. He was a   and I loved him the most as he was my younger son. My elder son   is in the Army. Gursewak was passionate about joining the   or Indian Air Force. We are from a very humble background. 
 
 "He did his schooling from Garnala village of Ambala district. He was selected in the Air Force and had been working in the Air Force for over five years when he left us at the age of 27," said  , father of the martyr, who was posted in Adampur and was rushed to the Pathankot air base on January 1, 2016, to counter the terrorists.
 
 "We feel proud that we are from Ambala, where a number of soldiers had sacrificed their lives for the nation and my son was one of them. But they did not get due respect. Some leaders immediately reached here and made announcements to get a gate constructed in the name of my son as a tribute to him but the promises have not been fulfilled till date. 
 
 "We have no demand but we want people should know and respect the man who sacrificed his life for them. Gursewak died after he was hit by three bullets," added Succha. 
 
 "We are living in abject pain and still are unable to forget our young son who has left us in pain. Whenever I talk about him I start weeping. Why Almighty did not take my life instead of him," added Succha. 
 
 Gursewak's wife Jaspreet, who got married to Gursewak after three years of engagement, is living with the family and her one-and-a-half years-old daughter, who was born a few months after he was killed.
 
 
