BENGALURU: The bandh called on Monday by the  , demanding farmers’ loans be waived by the Congress-JD(S) coalition government, evoked a   which forced party activists, led by their MLAs, to take to the streets in many places to enforce shutdowns. 

 State BJP president   had called for a Karnataka bandh — Bengaluru was excluded due to elections in Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency — after chief minister   had failed to waive farm loans within 24 hours of assuming power — a promise he had made in his party’s manifesto.
 
 However, fearing a backlash from the courts, the BJP changed tack, saying people can voluntarily observe a bandh. Barring a few places like Dharwad, Haveri and Muddebihal, normal life in the state remained unaffected with public transport, banks, government offices, educational institutions and business establishments functioning as usual. 
 
 With the farmers’ associations and other organizations remaining aloof to the bandh, BJP leaders and workers took to the streets in many places forcing shops and business establishments to shut. In Koppal, a heated argument ensued between Koppal MP, Karadi Sanganna, and police when the MP’s supporters went around forcibly shutting shops. 
 
 A similar tale played out in Madikeri where MLA, K G Bopaiah, was involved in an argument with security personnel who had objected to BJP workers stopping tourist vehicles from plying in the town. In Yadgir, BJP MLA, Venkateraddi Mudnal, was seen forcing shops to shut. In Chitradurga, BJP workers pelted stones at an Indira Canteen and three people were arrested in the incident. BJP workers took out rallies and held protests, road rokhos and dharnas in several areas, demanding Kumaraswamy announce loan waivers immediately.
 
 Meanwhile, Yeddyurappa claimed that the bandh was successful and congratulated farmers for their voluntary participation. “Kumaraswamy is trying to run away from his promise after becoming CM,” the former chief minister said. “We will wait for one more week and intensify our fight if he fails to waive farm loans.” 
 
 
