KOLKATA: Two teenagers were severely injured after a crude bomb went off inside the abandoned Rammohan hostel beside   on   on Sunday morning. The duo mistook the bomb to be a ball and tried to play with it. 

 The impact left 14-year-old Rintu Shaw with severe injuries on left arm that needs multiple surgeries. The other boy, Koustav Das (16), also suffered multiple burn injuries and was admitted to   and Hospital.
 
 "Doctors said some of his fingers and a part of the left arm may need amputation. They would conduct a surgery on Monday," said Sita Devi, a relative of Shaw.
 
 Police said the two were playing on the adjoining ground and had gone inside the abandoned premises to find their cricket ball. "They found a tiffin box inside an egg carton. As they opened it, they found a ball-like substance inside it that burst with a deafening noise," said police.
 
 "When we opened the box, the ball fell out and went off. Rintu, who was holding the box, suffered severe injuries and became unconscious. I suffered burn injuries all over my body," said Das.
 
 Locals said the sound was so loud that those living within 300 metres could hear it. "It looks like a crude bomb and we suspect that a group of miscreants had hidden it there. We are scanning the area thoroughly and have already found some objects in the premises," said an officer of Amherst Street PS.
 
 Officers of the bomb disposal squad later visited the spot and checked the area thoroughly.
 
 The hostel where the blast took place was inaugurated in January 1918 and the former boarders had organized a reunion on Sunday. It's in a dilapidated condition, with ceilings crumbling down and windows and doors broken. The sprawling building with long corridors which was home to 180 boarders has now turned into a hub of antisocial activities. 
 
 "Outsiders visit the hostel daily. The police and civic officials are aware about this. Since we are not the official owner of the building, we cannot do anything," said Sital Prasad Chatterjee, principal of City College.
 
 
