Panic, confusion and misunderstanding run rampant after news emerged this week that important heritage sites across India are up for “adoption” under a government scheme that has already registered nearly 400 “monument mitras.” The official website (adoptaheritage.in) says, “The project plans to entrust heritage sites/monuments and other tourist sites to private sector companies, public sector companies and individuals for the development of tourist amenities. They would become ‘monument mitras’ and adopt the sites. The basic and advanced amenities of the tourist destinations would be provided by them. They would also look after the operations and the maintenance of the amenities.”

 The controversy erupted partly because almost no one – including relevant government ministers – was consulted or informed about this radical new policy affecting iconic sites across the country. Here in Goa, shocked objections came from the coalition administration’s own minister for tourism, Manohar Azgaonkar, as well as minister for archives/archaeology, Vijai Sardesai. They claim the state’s own government was unaware that Aguada, Cabo de Rama and Chapora forts, the Bom Jesus Basilica, and ecologically sensitive Morjim beach were up for grabs. Now, there’s fierce backtracking. Sardesai spoke for many Goans when he complained, “The experience with Delhi (central government) has been that they come with a small thing and then they take over your whole asset.”
 
 Matters were not helped by  , group CEO of Dalmia Bharat, when he spoke about the winning bid for the Red Fort in Delhi (Rs 25 crore for five years), saying, “We have to start work within 30 days and have to own it for five years initially. Then the contract can be extended on mutually agreeable terms.” 
 
 Alarmed citizens across the country zoomed in on the blithe expression of ownership, and also saw red flags in the fine print of his contract which includes provision for “semi-commercial activities” and also a highly irresponsible indemnity clause to protect the corporate house if the Archaeological Survey of India ( ) or other responsible agencies decide to pursue claims of damage related to the Red Fort interventions.
 
 Like other big ideas that have emerged in succession from the   leadership since the   won its sweeping mandate in 2014, this heritage adoption plan contains some visionary policy elements, but suffers greatly from lack of transparency, egregiously botched roll-out, and the probability of manipulation by cronies. There is no doubt India needs considerable help conserving and sensitively developing its incalculably vast natural and built heritage. The government is right to look for partners in this area. But the selection of sites and sponsors alike is highly sensitive, and potentially fraught. It cannot be trusted to politicians or their appointees alone, without considerable consultation and approval of recognised experts and local stakeholders.
 
 Here, it is extremely worrisome that no mention of expertise is made anywhere in the guidelines for “adopt a heritage” (sic). Ever since 1947, very poor standards of conservation have prevailed across India because the ASI has been chronically understaffed and underfunded, and at least worked for the democracy. But in 2018, aspirational India must demand better. Many stunning projects across the country have already shown the way, including the superb conservation work on Humayun’s Tomb (in partnership with the Aga Khan Trust) in Delhi, and the brilliant redevelopment of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Mandal (Crawford Market) in Mumbai, as well as the sensitively restored Reis Magos fortress (by architect Gerard da Cunha) right here in Goa.
 
 Quality is not mentioned in the government’s new scheme, but even worse, when it comes to Goa, only two highly dubious partners have been shortlisted for five proposed sites. Drishti Marine, which has largely failed its existing contract to collect garbage off the beaches, gets the bonanza of three fortresses and Morjim. Meanwhile the new and unknown (2014-registered) V Resorts gets Bom Jesus Basilica, the crowning religious institution of the Catholics of the state. Does this make sense? To paraphrase an old slogan, “Adopt a heritage, yes, but not this mess!”
 
 The writer is a photographer and a widely published columnist. Views expressed are personal.
 
 
