CHANDIGARH: The departments of   (PU) have no information on the percentage of students sent on the foreign exchange programmes in the last academic year. The departments also do not know the total number of seminars conducted by the university in the academic year 2016-17. Interestingly, these are also the data that several ranking agencies demand from the university. However, the varsity does not have consolidated data on these parameters, revealed a data analysis based on the information resource books of each department, done by the   (IQAC) of the university.

 
 The analysis lists out 22 parameters, on which there is no consolidated data maintained by the departments of the university. "We are losing out on rankings because we do not maintain these data. In a larger perspective, we are not being able to secure a good brand value for ourselves. Whatever brand value we have is what we had from before. There is no effort from the university to create more. The importance of brand value will be realised when strong private players come up for competition in this region," said IQAC director M  .
 
 For example,   (THE) rankings take into account the international outlook of an educational institution to rank it. In the World University rankings 2017-18, released last year, Panjab University had scored 16 points. However, the score was 29.3 in 2014-15. This makes maintaining data extremely important for the departments, said experts.
 
  
  
 
 "The private universities are able to maintain this data in detail. They are already ahead of us in this. The faculty and administration in government institutions don't maintain this data with such detail. They have not even set up systems. The situation is so bad that we don't even know that how you name our department," added Rajivlochan.
 
 Moreover, according to the data analysis done for the academic year 2016-17, there is no data available for the number of prestigious national and international academic awards received by the university students in last three years, total number of seminars conducted by the university in 2016-17 and total number of inter-university competitions attended and hosted in 2016-17. The consolidated data on the total number of guest speakers who came to the university in 2016-17 is also not available. Interestingly, the departments also failed to the give the data on the number of students' societies in the university.
 
 
 
 
