PATNA: With just a couple of days left for the  ,   for the holy month are in full swing in the city. Marketplaces like Sabzibagh, Raja Bazaar, Patna City and Phulwarisharif are abuzz with shoppers.

 Ramzan is expected to start from May 17 or 18, depending on sighting of the moon. During the holy month of  , Muslims observe fast, marking it as a gesture to revere the first revelation of the Quran to Muhammad according to the Islamic belief. It falls in the ninth month of the Islamic calendar (Hijri). Muslims observe fast from dawn till dusk and abstain from food, drink and other wrongdoings during the month.
 
 Makeshift shops have come up across the city, selling varieties of dates (khajur), itars (perfumes), naan-rotis, lachchas and other items. Mohammad Raju, owner of a dry fruit store on Ashok Rajpath, said at least 24 varieties of dates imported from Dubai and Saudi Arabia are available in his shop. 
 
 “Al-fard, barari, ajwa, rehan, salam and kemya varieties of dates are in high demand. Muslims break the fast by eating dates. The prices of these dates range from Rs 250 to Rs 2,000, depending on the quality and variety. Haldiram lachchas are also in great demand,” Raju added.
 
 Supermarkets and malls are also wooing customers with enticing offers on dates, sherbet and other items. Santosh Kumar, employee of a store at a supermarket on Frazer Road, said packed fruit juice, roohafza and khaas sherbet were flying off the shelves. “The store is offering up to 20% discount on edible items and ‘buy one get one free’ offer on certain varieties of fruit juice,” he said.
 
 Small hotels at Kebabwali Gali in Sabzibagh have prepared the menu to offer exquisite iftar to the Muslim devotees. “Ramzan is the busiest time for us. During the Ramzan month, hotels and dhabas stay open 24x7. Daal kachodi, pakodis, chola bhatura, matri, imirti, laung lata, chandrakala are some of the popular dishes. Biryani, chicken korma, naan, paratha and tikki kebabs will be served in dinner,” said Mohammad Babul, employee of a hotel at Kebabwali Gali.
 
 Many hotels will set up tents to entertain visitors. The tea sellers have started preparing sheer chai, which is priced at Rs 15 per cup. They will also sell faluda and kulfi. Several mosques in the city, on the other hand, have made preparations to organise iftar parties. 
 
 
