MOHALI: In a case of live-in relationship turning nasty, a man along with an unknown accomplice attacked his alleged partner with a sharp-edged weapon in a lift of a housing society in Sector 88, Mohali on the night intervening Wednesday and Thursday.

 Residents called up police after they saw blood stains all around the lift and the floor at  , where the man used to stay in one of the flats as a tenant.
 
 
  
  
 
 The police have not been able to get to assailants and the woman, who was assaulted, but they have booked and identified the man who lived in the society with the help of   footage in the building. Residents said CCTV cameras captured the assailants dragging the injured woman.
 
 Mohali   Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “We have booked one person, who lived in the society, and will soon arrest him. The nature of wounds of the woman will be ascertained after the medical examination. The name will be revealed once we arrest the accused.” The SSP said the images of the two accused and the woman are clearly visible in the CCTV footage and the vehicle in which they entered the premises of the apartments.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Chahal said, “The samples of the blood stains have also been collected from the spot and have been sent for test. We have been told that the accused lived as a tenant in the housing society.”
 
 Police said they received a call from one of the residents of the housing society on Wednesday night, informing them about the incident. The police found blood stains on walls and floor of the lift. Blood stains were also found in the corridor of C-4 block, police said.
 
 Parwinder Singh, a resident of housing society, said, “In C-4 block, two boys attacked a girl with sharp-edged weapon in the lift. The lift was full of blood. Moreover the blood stains were detected on the ground, on the basement as well as on different floors. They took the girl with them in Hyundai I-20 car. The police visited the spot and took samples and recorded statements of residents.”
 
 Sources in the police said the accused lived in a flat in the housing society along with the woman. They had some dispute after which he assaulted her inside a moving lift with the help of another person. Later she was also dragged too, which has been captured in the CCTV footage which is in the possession of the police, cops said.
 
 
