AHMEDABAD: If a   is put up outside a hospital, school, or old age home that reads ‘Silence Zone', Amdavadis will welcome it with a honk! Who says  ? It’s the language Amdavadis speak once they hit the road. It’s almost colloquial to the mother tongue. Those who blow this ear tearing device are always in a tearing hurry. In fact, class does not matter here. This frenetic frenzy is common to Amdavadis regardless of whether they are riding on two, three or four wheels. 

 A team of assistant professors, Hiren Patel and Bibhabasu Mohanty from SAL Institute of Technology and Engineering Research recently measured the high decibel talk on Ahmedabad roads. The research found that the average noise level at Vijay Crossroads,   and Helmet intersections was more than 65 decibels. Among all the three intersections, Helmet intersection showed a higher average noise level of 95.65 dB compared to the two other intersections. At Gujarat University and Vijay Crossroads the average noise was 77.55 dB and 85.7 dB, respectively.
  
  
 
 “Helmet intersection was the noisiest. The traffic volume was also high here. Motorized vehicles are responsible for creating noise pollution at these intersections. The noise levels here also increased because 90 per cent of the drivers unnecessarily pressed horns while waiting for the signal to turn “green”. Also around 99 per cent of drivers did not switch off their engines while waiting at intersections,” claims Patel and Mohanty in their research paper.
 
 Decibel levels at the Sabarmati Ashram, measured by using an android mobile application, were beyond acceptable levels even where the apostle of peace has claim to peace. The noise levels here, because of honking, were in the range 73 dB to 77 dB. 
 
 A study conducted by CSIR-NEERI in Nagpur in 2015 claimed that honking was responsible for an additional noise of 4 dB to 5 dB. Noise levels at NID ranged between 72 dB and 74 dB; at SAL hospital it was 68.4 dB to 72.2 dB and at VS Hospital's trauma ward it was 74 dB to 82.6 dB. The last   was marked 75 metres around SAL hospital in 2007. Hear this one, please, if you haven't gone deaf on the streets.
 
 
