Ludhiana: Officials of the education department deployed at the exam centre of Government College for Girls made 360 students sit on 180 desks during the final examinations under Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) on Thursday. This was against the rules set by education department.

 Two students appearing for the Environment paper were sitting on dual desks, where they could easily see the answersheets of each other.
 
 According to the rules, students of same class and subject cannot sit together on one desk. According to information, Government College for Girls, near Bharat Nagar Chowk, has been made an examination centre for as many as 471 students. Out of them, 360 students were accommodated in one auditorium, while 111 students were accommodated in three classrooms.
 
 In the absence of sufficient classrooms and desks, the on-duty officials made two students sit on one dual desk in the auditorium. By the evening, the matter reached the ears of different officials and teachers. When asked, the centre superintendent Harjeet Singh said, “I have already informed the district education officer (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur about the shortage of classrooms and desks due to which we are forced to make two students sit on one desk, which is against the rules. On our report the DEO has arranged desks for the students.”
 
 According to an official, the board had made two centres in the college for classes X and XII. However, the college had immediately written to the board to cancel centres due to the shortage of infrastructure as maximum infrastructure is used by college students. After this, the board had cancelled the centre for class X.
 
 The centre controller from GCG Varinderjit Kaur said, “There is no issue in making two students sit on one desk as they are given different sets of question paper. Moreover, in national-level entrance tests two students sit on one desk and this is just a  .” The district education officer (secondary) Sawarnjit Kaur said, “The matter is in my knowledge. I have talked to the college authorities who have agreed to give allot more classrooms for the exams.”
 
 Former vice chairman of PSEB Suresh Tandon said, “If two students are made to sit on one desk, then the length of desk should be such that the students cannot see the each others’ answersheets. Else there is no use of board exams.”
 
 Anti-cheating teacher front complained to secretary of education against it. The president Sukhdarhsan Singh said, “This is a failure of the education department in making sufficient arrangements for the board exams. Making two students sit on one desk is a clear violation of rules. Our organisation has filed a complaint with the secretary education and chairman of PSEB against it.”
 
 
