PUNE/MUMBAI: The protest called by supporters of right-wing Hindutva leader Sambhaji Bhide-led Shiv Pratishthan has been called off. Protests were being held at   on Wednesday in support of Bhide, the main accused in the violence that took place at   on January 1.

  
  
 
 A delegation led by Bharat Mali, chief of Shivpratishthan Hindustan, went to Vidhan Bhavan to meet Chief Minister   on Wednesday. 
 
 The protest comes two days after the Prakash Ambedkar-led Bharip   launched an agitation seeking the arrest of Bhide in the case for instigation violence. Ambedkar met Fadnavis and has given the government an ultimatum of eight days to arrest Bhide. Meanwhile, the state government had already clarified that they have no evidence against Bhide in the Bhima Koregaon case.
 
 Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan wanted to hold a rally from Byculla to Azad Maidan in south Mumbai and from Shaniwarwada to the district collectorate in Pune. Mumbai Police though allowed the organisation to hold a gathering at Azad Maidan, the Pune Police denied permission for a protest in the city. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 "We have denied permission to the march," said Shrikant Shinde, senior inspector, Vishrambaug police station, Pune.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Pune district president of Pratishthan Sanjay Jadhar alleged the police denied them permission at the "last moment".
 
 He said Bhide's supporters would still gather at the riverbed near Shaniwarwada in the city to "express their sentiments" and hold the march.
 
 Jadhar said the outfit wanted the case against Bhide to be withdrawn immediately.
 
 Bhide (85), who heads Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan, and another Hindutva leader   were booked on January 2, a day after the violence, under SC/ST Prevention of Atrocities Act and under various sections of the IPC including attempt to murder as one person was killed in the clashes.
 
 Ekbote was already arrested by the police after his anticipatory bail plea was rejected by the Supreme Court.
 
 Bharipa Bahujan Mahasangh (BBM) leader Prakash Ambedkar had alleged that Hindu Ekta Aghadi and the Shiv Pratishthan were responsible for the caste clashes.
 
 The violence had occurred at an event to mark the 200th anniversary of the battle of Bhima Koregaon in which the British Army comprising Dalits had defeated the Peshwas.
 
 A large section of Dalits view the historical battle as the defeat of the 'casteism' of upper-caste Peshwas.
 
 Dalit activists led by Ambedkar on Wednesday held protests in Mumbai's Azad Maidan demanding Bhide's arrest.
 
 Ambedkar has given a one-week ultimatum to the state government to arrest Bhide.
 
 However, Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis told the Assembly that there was no proof of the involvement of Bhide in the violence.
 
 Bhide, who hails from Sangli district in western Maharashtra, has been maintaining that he was not present at the spot on the day of the incident and was away to attend MLA Jayant Patil's mother's rituals.
 
 (With PTI inputs)
 
