When they come together, there’s no end to the good-humoured ribbing and repartee between them. Teasing eyes and lips set mischievously to pull each other’s legs,   and   come across as love-birds rather than a couple married for 14 years. Right now, they have another reason to banter over — their first acting venture together for a play. Not many know that it was not acting, but music that brought them together, when they first met on the musical show, ' '. Now that they are sharing the stage for the first time, it has resulted in the couple rediscovering each other all over again. Clearly, it’s romance 2.0 as one of television’s star couple talk to BT about their whirlwind romance, long-standing marriage and breezy ventures of the future...

 
 Remembering the days when they got married, Rajeshwari says she’s the romantic one in the relationship, while Varun has to be reminded to be one. “In fact, Varun has never proposed to me. Everyone just decided that we were getting married. The only time he’s ever gotten romantic is in those six months that we were engaged; he would send me shers (romantic couplets) daily, which continued for a fortnight after we got married.”
 Varun, on the other hand, finds it odd that he’s expected to be as romantic in real life as he was in the show Des Mein Nikla Hoga Chand, which made him a household name. “That was acting and I got paid for it,” he says, quipping, “You pay me for romance.” Getting serious, he adds, “I have expressed my love for her. But in today’s digital age, you have to update your status every three months, which I cannot do since I am old-fashioned in my ways.” Rajeshwari chips in to say that she’s happy with the once-in-a-while romantic gesture that comes her way. “On his birthdays, I throw him a surprise party and for my birthday too, I throw myself a surprise. Recently I got a small bouquet from him and well, I was happy,” she laughs.
 
 
 While they may differ when it comes to romance, they have a lot in common when it comes to films and music. Says Rajeshwari, who claims to be a cleanliness freak, “Over the years, we have learnt to accept certain 
 things. There are no challenges since we both believe in ‘live and let live’. We are like good room partners, wherein one of us creates a mess, while the other cleans up. However, at the same time, we both have our say.”
 Interestingly, they are different in the way they react to problems. “Nothing troubles me, unless I choose to be troubled,” says Varun. Rajeshwari, on the contrary, is a worrier. “Everything bothers me. Someone has to just tell me some problem and I will think about it for hours together, but Varun gets over everything with humour. So, while when one of us is holding our head in worry, the other will be laughing and singing. I think this helps to maintain the balance in our relationship and in the house.”
 
 
 One of the things that leaves no scope for conflict is the fact that the couple don’t try to change each other. “We are both quite head strong. We don’t sit and analyse things, we try strike a balance as we both know that we have to handle whatever decisions we take together.” Agrees Varun, “Every couple faces problems, but they have to resolve them together. I’ve yet to meet a couple who are completely happy. When it comes to taking decisions, we both do our best. When one of us cannot do it, then the other one just takes over and finishes it.”
 
 
 Rajeshwari and Varun are working together on a play for the first time. Titled ' ', which is a dramatised rendition of noted poet-writer Dr Dharamveer Bharati’s powerful and romantic love letters written to his wife. A unique presentation of letters, poetry and drama creatively woven into a play, both feel that working on this project has added a spark to their relationship. “Once we started rehearsing, I fell in love with him once again. As it is the letters and the words are so beautiful, but the way Varun reads it, I am spellbound. I told him if you would have written even four lines like this for me, I would have been floored,” Rajeshwari signs off. 
 
