MADURAI: Refusing to vacate its status quo on the elections to the co-operative societies in the state, the Madras high court Madurai bench has directed the   to file a counter to the case.

 A batch of cases filed against the Tamil Nadu state co-operative elections came up for hearing before the division bench of justices C T Selvam and A M Basheer Ahamed. 
 
 On behalf of the Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Societies Election Commission and the state government, the court was asked to vacate the interim order (status quo). But, the bench said the AIADMK was one among the parties to the case, against which allegations had been levelled. Hence, its reply was necessary to decide the case on hand. Saying so, it adjourned the case to April 23. Till then, the status quo would continue, the bench said.
 
 It may be recalled that the election commission had on March 5 announced four-phase elections to 18,435 primary cooperative societies that come under the state’s 15 departments. Accordingly, elections were held to 4,698 societies in phase 1 and 4,479 societies in phase 2. It was scheduled to conduct elections to 4,531 societies in phase three on April 16 and 4,727 societies in the last phase on April 23.
 
 Challenging the elections, several petitions were filed before the high court bench including one by   and whip of the opposition DMK, R Sakkarapani. The   sought the court’s intervention to declare the elections conducted as unconstitutional and unenforceable and a direction to the state’s co-operation department to hold it in a free and fair manner.
 
 During arguments, the court was told that in most cases the commission accepted nominations of candidates belonging to the ruling AIADMK and declared them as winners. It had not only rejected the nominations of candidates from rival parties, but also not revealed to candidates the reasons for rejection. The counsels said that ministers were appointed as election officers thereby affecting free and fair elections.
 
 After hearing, the court had on Monday ordered status quo on the ongoing elections thus stopping all further processes for holding polls to the remaining 9,258 of the 18,435 primary cooperative societies in the third and fourth phases. tnn
 
 
