CHENNAI: Commuters heading from   or Tambaram to   need not change   at Beach railway station as   will from April 23 operate four new cross-sectoral nine-car EMU train services between Gummidipoondi and Tambaram/ Chengalpet.

 Aimed at meeting passenger demands, these services will be operated from Monday to Friday and will not be available during the weekends, Southern Railway said. 
 
 Train no. GC2 will leave Gummidpoondi at 6am to reach Chengalpet at 9.50am via   and Tambaram. In the return direction, train no. CG1 will leave Chengalpet at 10.30am to reach Gummidipoondi at 1.55pm via Tambaram and Chennai Beach stations.
 
 Train no.GT2 will leave Gummidipoondi at 2.25pm to reach Tambaram at 4.55pm via Chennai Beach. In the return direction, Train No.TG1 will leave Tambaram at 6.05pm to reach Gummidipoondi at 8.40pm via the Chennai Beach station.
 
 In addition to these, a passenger special will be operated on weekends. The special will leave Gummidipoondi at 8.50pm on Fridays to reach Velachery at 11.15pm, starting from April 27 via Beach. In the return direction, the special will leave Velachery at 7.40pm on Sundays to reach Gummidipoondi at 10.15pm starting from April 22 via Beach station.
 
 Sources say there are a number of passengers who travel up to Park station and then walk across  , to take trains towards Gummidipoondi on the northern line from Moore Market Complex (MMC) as the frequency of trains to Gummipoondi from Beach station is poorer. Introduction of the through trains will cut the need to make the detour.
 
 For S Balaji, who travels from Ennore to Guindy, this cross sectoral service will come as a boon. “I won’t need to change trains at Chennai Central anymore. It will be a comfortable ride,” he said.
 
 Railway sources say that the frequency of these through services can be increased further if another line is constructed between Park and Chennai Beach stations. Currently, there are only three lines which are used for   and passenger train services. 
 
 However, this will mean the state government has to give a portion of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) for the fourth line. Railways is trying out more through trains as similar services from Tiruvallur and Gummidipoondi to Velachery pushed up patronage.
 
 
