TRICHY: The protests over the death of 30-year-old R Usha continued for the third day in Trichy as her funeral rites were performed on Friday.

 Her body was kept at her maternal house in KK Nagar from Thursday evening. The funeral procession was taken out by her relatives to the cemetery in   in Trichy with heavy police protection to avoid any untoward incidents from the irate relatives and protesters.
 
 Usha from Soolamangalam in Thanjavur lost her life after a traffic police inspector  , 47 kicked the bike on which she was riding pillion with her husband D Raja, 34 at Ganesha roundabout opposite BHEL quarters on Thanjavur – Trichy national highway in Trichy on Wednesday night. Kamaraj allegedly followed and kicked the moving bike thrice after   did not stop for vehicle check for helmet violation at Thuvakudi toll plaza.
 
 Political leaders including BJP state president Tamilisai Soundararajan, Naam Tamilar party leader Seeman, DMK MLA K N Nehru and others paid homage to her body before the funeral rites at a cemetery in Melapudhur in Trichy on Friday. They carried the posters condemning the police for the death of Usha.
 
 Condemning the police brutality, Tamilisai said that though the chief minister insisted on maintaining law and order in the state, there was no action to implement it.
 
 Meanwhile, the jailed traffic inspector Kamaraj is undergoing treatment at the jail hospital in Trichy Central Prison. Police said that he was lodged in prison on Thursday morning.
 
 Considering the fact that the accused in the case was an inspector, the superintendent of police (SP), Trichy P S C Kalyan ordered to transfer the case to deputy superintendent of police (DSP), district crime branch (DSP) from BHEL police for further investigation. However, there was no change in the sections under which he was booked. He was arrested on charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder.
 
 The police put the helmet violation drive on hold for the second consecutive day in Trichy fearing any backlash from the people.
 
 Sources said that the city police insisted on resuming the drive and not going harsh on the violators this evening.
 
 A traffic police sub-inspector was heckled by a group of traders for carrying out a drive for helmet violation near Gandhi market in the city on Thursday.
 
 
