Chennai:   is a welcome measure, to have a sense of order. More so in Tamil film industry, where greed overtakes everything else.

 The decision by the Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC) to introduce a system of regulated releases of  , after nearly a two-month long strike, has democratised the scenario and may be seen as an advantage for smaller films which do not have to push release dates in fear of being enveloped by the craze of a star-studded film.
 
 In 2017, at least five films used to release on a single day, with one weekend seeing 13 films hitting theatres across the state. Against this, the new order permits the release of only three Tamil films a week. "Until now, most producers did not have a proper release plan. The theatres too were in the dark on what films it had to schedule. This uncertainty led to chaos, with more films bunched up for a weekend, and many losing out on getting the right number of theatres," feels S R Prabhu, a producer and treasurer, TFPC. 
 
 Under the new rule, the films are placed in a queue based on the date it obtained the censor certificate. This method was adopted to avoid charges of favouritism. In place from April 27, the system seems to be working well barring an odd film or two that skipped the allotted release date due to other problems.
 
 It is an opportunity, feels Prabhu for  , which were battling for theatre space in a crowded market. And while the screens for them have been ensured, it is the box office report that will reflect the profitability. "We now plan releases at least a month in advance. In the next phase, we intend to plan for release dates six months in advance, irrespective of the size of the films. This will not only help producers plan their business better, but also bring discipline," said Prabhu.
 
 Bereft of big ticket films this summer holiday season, it’s the theatres that are unhappy with the new rule. "Regulation will help the industry in the long run. But no star film during summer, when weekdays get 70% footfall, has hit collections. While April was lost to the strike, with Rajinikanth’s ‘Kaala’ being pushed to June 7, we may not have a star film during May too," says K Meenakshisundaram, vice-president, Mayajaal, the 16-screen multiplex on ECR.
 
 However, not all was lost for theatres, as Hollywood and Tollywood coming to their rescue. ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ turned out to be a saviour by clocking big numbers at the box office collections with a wide release. Mahesh Babu-starrer Telugu film ‘Bharat Ane Nenu’ too had a decent run in TN. "Last year, it was ‘Baahubali’ which took away the entire summer collections, this year it is ‘Avengers’," says Tiruppur K Subramaniam, a distributor.
 
 There are a few hiccups too and new problems could surface going forward. For instance, this Friday will see four new Tamil films hitting the theatres, as against the plan of three per week. That’s because ‘Baskar Oru Rascal’, which was scheduled for release earlier had to skip its allotted date due to some issues. "When a producer faces financial settlement issues in the last minute it could hit the release, thereby creating trouble for others and adding to the backlog," points out an industry source.
 
 Email your feedback to
 
 southpole.toi@timesgroup.com
 
 
