JAIPUR: Rajasthan’s ranking in 'ease of doing business’ has slipped from top five positions as local bodies and urban improvement trusts (UITs) lag in implementing business reforms. The state’s real-time ranking was third till January 2018, but now it has slipped to sixth position.

 The yearly state-wise ranking will be based on assessment of implementation of the ‘Business Reforms Action Plan’ (BRAP) in 2017. 
 
 According to the data available on department of industrial policy and promotion ( 's) website — http://eodb.dipp.gov.in — which provides real-time ranking and tracking of the states and UTs based on the implementation of the recommendations, Rajasthan stood at 6th place as on February 1 with an implementation score of 89.97%. However, the ranking is dynamic and till they are frozen, these positions could change due to intense competition between states.
 
 According to sources, the position of Rajasthan is expected to fall further as it failed to fulfil recent recommendations provided by the Centre. 
 
 The state government in October 2017 had forwarded the BRAP including a total of 372 recommendations framed by department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP), ministry of commerce and industry, in association with the  .
 
 The assessment in 2017 include paper-less courts, online single window system, online tax payment, contract enforcement, land availability and allotment, obtaining electricity and water connection, enablers for transparency, tax, labour regulation, construction permits, environmental registration as well as commercial dispute resolution and online systems for property registration. 
 
 Sources said, the DIPP will also take feedback from businesses on the quality of implementation of the reforms claimed by the states .For the same, the Centre sought list of 60 applicants from the state government.
 
 “As the online system to provide approval of building layout plan, completion certificate, fire NOC etc remains defunct, the state government is struggling to find 60 applicants in 191 urban locals bodies (ULBs), across the state,” said an official source. 
 
 It was informed, the online platform has been developed in many major local bodies and development authorities. However, officials continue to practice offline method.
 
 “At  , despite the online system to approve building plan is introduced, the officials are taking offline applications. Similarly, the Udaipur mayor, in a letter has sought permission to issue offline building plans,” added source. 
 
 There is little hope of any significant improvement in the standings as the state government has not digitalised complete urban land records. Moreover, online system for land conversion and transfer remain ineffective.
 
 Saleen Singh, a developer, informed that nothing has changed on ground and developers continue to struggle for getting approvals.
 
 “There are few reforms have been implemented by the administration, which have made no difference in the ease of doing business.”
 
 
