AHMEDABAD: The dormant Ishrat Jahan encounter case has returned to haunt intelligence bureau ( ) officials, nearly four years after the   had charged them for murder, criminal conspiracy, illegal detention and kidnapping.

 A special CBI court last month issued summons to four IB officials including central IB’s special director Rajinder Kumar. This happened after CBI intimated special magistrate (CBI) D R Vyas that the competent authority had denied sanction to prosecute the four intelligence officials according to the provisions of Section 197 of the CrPC. For some four years, the court had not taken cognizance of the chargesheet after the investigation agency said that it was waiting for prosecution sanction.
 
 To the surprise of the IB officials as well as   police officers involved in the case, the court took cognizance of the chargesheet lying with it since February 2017. None of the IB officials – Kumar along with his subordinates M K Sinha, Rajeev Wankhede and T S Mittal – were arrested, unlike the CBI arrests of Gujarat cops, including top cops DGP P P Pandey, D G Vanzara, G L Singhal and N K Amin.
 
 On December 28, two of the accused, Mittal and Wankhede, had rushed to a sessions court challenging the issuance of summons. Their advocate Bhadrish Raju said that the summons were challenged on the ground that the court ought not to have issued them at all because the government had denied prosecution sanction.
 
 On the other hand, special prosecutor in this case, R C Kodekar believes that the court was correct in taking cognizance of the case by forming an opinion that summons were required to be issued in this case. 
 
 “The accused persons have filed revision application and the sessions court has posted hearing on January 6,” he said.
 
 Nineteen-year old Mumbra girl Ishrat Jahan was shot dead along with three others – Javed Shaikh alias Pranesh Pillai, Amjad Ali Rana and Zeeshan Johar – on June 15, 2004 by Ahmedabad crime branch sleuths in the outskirts of the city. 
 
 After the shootout, the cops said they were Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives who were on a mission to kill then chief minister Narendra Modi.
 
 
