On the face of it, Mendoza-a lush Argentinian province gushing with olive oil and wine-is the opposite of arid Rajasthan. If anything, this wine capital nestling in green plains looks like hilly Kashmir and behaves like laidback Goa. Yet a tiny   village surrounded by marble mines recently reminded three Argentinians of Mendoza's thirsty past. Like the foreign mining centre which used to be a desert before locals turned it into an oasis, the previously-parched landscape of Piplantri-where since 2005, 111 trees are planted every time a girl is born--too is changing because of a man named Shyam Sunder Paliwal. 

 It was the poignant story of this man-the former sarpanch of   who lost his 16-year-old daughter, planted a tree in her memory and is now the local father of something called eco-feminism-that brought docu filmmakers Lucas Penafat, Victoria Chales and   to India for the first time in January this year. Fresh from wrapping up a 50-day shoot that saw them eating "suji and poha" for breakfast daily, convincing pregnant ghunghat-shrouded women to talk about their concerns and obliging selfie requests at lavish weddings, the trio-which is visiting production offices in Mumbai looking for collaborators for their film 'Sisters of the Trees'- speak of " " as family.
 
 "I love him," says Chales about the "kind, humble and funny" Paliwal whose loss had not only impelled him to grieve the fact that people sometimes kill their own daughters for financial reasons but also to realize that trees must be planted not to commemorate death but to celebrate the birth of a girl. Soon, the former sarpanch started convincing villagers to plant 111 trees each time a girl is born in their family. Such families sign a document committing to take care of the girl, educate her and not marry her off until she is of legal age. A deposit is then made in her name that she can encash on becoming an adult. Over 13 years, this reforestation and construction of rainwater harvesting terraces ensured the return of agriculture, which was lost to mining, and Paliwal even persuaded the marble mine companies to compensate the environmental damage they caused by planting trees on the old dumpyards. "Even though he is no longer the sarpanch, people still greet him like a leader," says Chales, who saw women approach Paliwal to report abusive husbands. 
 
 Enlisting the help of a local English teacher, Seema Tiwari, the crew followed four women including Kala, Paliwal's partner who convinces families not be scared about having a girl child and Daku, who planted trees in the name of her granddaughter recently. "Why didn't you finish your primary education?" the crew asked the "smart" Kala who had replied: "You think I'm smart enough?"
 
 While getting ghunghat-obscured women to describe "how it was to be pregnant not knowing if the child is going to be a girl or boy" took persistence, "the mentality of the society, though conservative, is changing," says Chales, adding that the girl child is treated as a blessings now. The 50-day stay-during which the crew grew attended weddings (including one where a father organised 100 saris for his daughter ) and funerals-has convinced them of one thing. "India is a country to be experienced and not toured," says Chales, who wants to show international audiences-who are fed stereotypical images such as the Taj Mahal-a different India. Currently struggling to find a subtitler who would translate Mewari to English, Chales speaks of a key moment that transcends language. After the shoot, when the trio toured Rajasthan and returned to Piplantri, they found Kala preparing for her primary school exam. 
 
