Trichy: For the second consecutive day, customers of mobile network operator Aircel were made to run helter-skelter to get their disrupted network fixed. Irritated customers thronged the offices of Aircel in the city on Thursday. Executives with the telecom service provider had no other option than to direct customers to opt for mobile number portability (retaining the mobile number but availing network from other providers). Several irate customers questioned the measures taken by Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai) to ease the situation and alleged that they were not provided with a proper platform to ventilate their grievances. Being the regulator of telecommunication sector across India, Trai is said to be running regional offices in Bhopal, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Kolkata and Hyderabad. One of the predominant purposes of establishing the watchdog way back in 1997 was to monitor and regulate telecom services. Upset customers of Aircel claimed that Trai could have averted the inconvenience met out to them, if they had seen the crisi s coming. “As communication service to lakhs of people depending on Aircel was hit, what constructive effort did Trai take? The regulatory body should have sensed the trouble-in-the-making much earlier which would have helped customers opt for other services long ago,” H Ubaidullah, an Aircel user for past 15 years lamented. Since there was no proper platform for Aircel customers, who were stripped off their communication service overnight, it is said that the state with 9 crore mobile network users could have been provided with a Trai regional office. This might have helped people to lodge their grievances and for the watchdog to oversee the situation in the state, which has got most number of Aircel customers. “It seems that consumers did not approach TRAI about the Aircel issue. We have escalated the issue to Trai’s regional office in Hyderabad. We expect the service disruption will be addressed at the earliest,” said M Sekaran, member, Consumer Advocacy Group of Trai. In Trichy, Aircel’s office situated on Lawson’s road was thronged by hundreds of Aircel users hailing from all walks of life. Kamatchi, 32, a daily wage labour from Allur claimed that she was told by an Aircel executive to avail mobile network porting option. “I have no idea what that is all about. People from rural areas like me, are blank, we get employment opportunities through mobile calls every day which is now ruined,” she added.  Executives in the Aircel office claimed that the network issue would be solved at the earliest. However, they kept suggesting irate customers to avail mobile porting option. 