Accidental deaths on Mumbai’s   have decreased by 14% over five years, but the number of casualties continues to remain alarmingly high. The most vulnerable commuters are those travelling from far-flung suburbs like Kalyan, Borivli and Vashi, who get a rib-crushing peak-hour experience. Nearly 16,450 rail commuters were killed in Mumbai between 2013 and 2017, almost a quarter of them due to falling off trains. Track crossing remains the biggest killer, accounting for 55% of the deaths. Roughly one in 10 of all deaths were of women.

 In 2017, a total of 3,014 commuters died. Of the cases, the highest, 368, was reported at the Kalyan GRP outpost (Kalyan-Kasara on one line, Kalyan-Badlapur on the other). The maximum instances of commuters falling off overcrowded locals (76 cases) were reported at the Vashi GRP outpost (Govandi-Seawoods, Rabale-Vashi). 
 
 Hearing a PIL in the presence of various stakeholders two years ago, the Bombay high court had suggested ways to make commuting by train easier. This piece is the second in a series on the social initiative ‘WorkToLiveToWork’ by the India Chapter of the International Advertising Association (IAA), which roots for flexible work timings to ease train commute. 
 
 
  
 
 Activists had prepared a cyclical timetable to reduce passenger load on each local by nearly 30% and also cut down on travel time. A former chairman of the Railway Board even vouched for this timetable, but the railways never implemented it.
 
 “Under the cyclical timetable, all services will be available at an interval of 12 minutes at all stations, which will uniformly disperse traffic load. Each service will be loaded with commuters of only 3-5 stations as against 10-20 stations at present. Limited halts ensure that the rakes turn around faster, leading to increased services,” octogenarian activist Dipak Gandhi told TOI. 
 
 “For instance, a Virar-bound fast train would not stop at Andheri and Borivli, ensuring that commuters from Churchgate would reach their destinations faster. It would also ensure that the same rake is available quicker for a turnaround and can transport more commuters.” 
 
 Activist Samir Zaveri said platform lengths need to be extended so that additional coaches can be added to existing rakes to prevent overcrowding. In an interview to TOI last year, railway minister Piyush Goyal had said that 370 escalators had been approved for Mumbai’s railways under the 'Make in India' drive and orders would be placed for the next five years. 
 
 “FOBs and platforms are safety items and so budget restrictions will not apply to them,” he said. Activists agreed that a sufficient number of FOBs and escalators was the only way commuters would stop taking short-cuts across tracks and risking their lives. But habits also need to change for asafe train journey.
 
