NAGPUR: Despite its appointment seven years ago for reducing distribution losses and collecting arrears, power franchisee SNDL has not been able to recover dues from defaulting consumers. As on date, the amount owed by consumers to the franchisee is over Rs48 crore.

 SNDL data shows that the defaulters are mostly located in some areas under a few distribution centres. They include   (Rs2.18 crore), Kamptee Road (Rs4.77 crore), Nara (Rs2.41 crore), Mayo Hospital (Rs5.56 crore) and   (Rs2.04 crore).
 
 Commenting on the dismal performance, an SNDL official said, “Even though the figure of Rs48 crore looks substantial, it is down from Rs60 crore last March. The reason is that a large number of disconnections were carried out by us in past one year. We disconnected nearly 50,000 consumers many of whom paid their dues to get reconnected. Each month, we nearly disconnected 5,000 consumers.”
 
 The franchisee had disconnected Congress corporator  , who had not paid his bill since 2013. After creating ruckus,   fell in line and cleared his dues. There were many such well connected defaulters.
 
 The official appealed to defaulters to pay up. “We have decided to invest 50% of the arrears amount recovered in 2018-19 in augmenting the power infrastructure. The defaulters will thus themselves benefit by clearing their bills,” he said.
 
 He further said that SNDL had done a commendable performance on distribution losses front. “When we took over the franchisee area in 2011-12, the losses were around 35%. Now they are down to 14%,” he added.
 
 Another positive development is that SNDL does not owe anything to its parent company  . Recently it had cleared arrears of over Rs50 crore. This is the first time after years that SNDL’s dues are nil. At one time they had crossed Rs200 crore.
 
 Parent company MSEDCL’s condition is even worse. Consumers owe the discom about Rs39,000 crore. A large share is owed by farmers against whom the discom is unable to take any action because of political interference. It is therefore concentrating on other consumers to improve its financial condition.
 
 
