LUDHIANA: Hero Cycles on Sunday released the details of its all new tech-enhanced Roadster model, priced at just Rs 1,999, which it plans to launch soon.

 A statement released by the company stated that it was committed to deliver on its chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) Pankaj Munjal’s promise of launching one of the cheapest bicycles in the country for the masses. The new Roadster concept features technologically specific solutions designed by Hero’s Manchester-based Global Design Centre (HGD), and this cycle will be based on the most current global processes. “Any attempt to produce cheaper duplicates, will be met with severe legal consequences for competitors, and their associated spare part manufacturers,” read the statement.
 
 Giving more information,   said: “The mass bicycle segment needed technological touches to solve problems unique to travel across Indian roads and dirt trails. We have been studying these problems for quite some time and realized that the everyday user requires a utility vehicle that is able to carry great loads and withstand inclement weather without compromising convenience and ride quality. We will be using state-of-the-art material and parts that will be available to the mass user at virtually subsidized rates. Also, our new roadster will not be a rehash of the old model. It will be an entirely new product, built from ground up, developed with alternate materials that are remarkably durable but light-weight.” 
 
 He also added: “Hero’s upgraded Roadster will have a technologically advanced steel frame that will enable 50% higher load carrying capacity, while reducing weight on the ride. A thoroughly researched new geometry promises to refine the ride quality without compromising on quality. There will also be chemically treated rust-free parts that increase the longevity and utility of the bike in adverse weather conditions, according to the manufacturer.”
 
 Three weeks ago, the company had said it would launch the new bicycle within the next three months. 
 
 
