LUCKNOW: Saying it was his "patriotic duty" to come to Uttar Pradesh,   on Wednesday pledged to invest Rs 10,000 crore in the state besides lending support to the Centre's ' ' project to clean up the holy river. 

 Speaking at the inaugural session of the UP investors' summit here, Ambani said the state's chief minister,  , had come to Mumbai to invite him to the event.
 
 "But, for me, coming to UP is a patriotic duty because India cannot rise to its full potential without the rise of 22 crore people of Uttar Pradesh. If UP starts running, no power can stop India from becoming a global power. This way, the most populous state will also become India's most prosperous state," Ambani said.
 
 
 
 The Reliance chairman made “four commitments” to UP in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and CM Yogi. “First, Jio will invest Rs 10,000 crore over the next three years,” he said.
 
 The second commitment, he said, was to turn each youth of UP into “smart youth”.
 
 “For this, Jio will make available 2 crore Jio phones in UP over the next two months for a nominal deposit of Rs 1,500, which is refundable after three years.
 
 “Apart from 40,000 jobs it has created, Jio, through its other organs, will create over 1 lakh livelihood opportunities. Besides, it will also set up a centre of excellence at a university in UP,” Ambani declared.
 
 The Reliance chairman promised full support to the Namami Gange project. “Ganga is like a mother to us and is pious. We at Reliance foundation aspire to contribute to the success of this mission. We are ready to complete whatever part of the project is assigned to us,” he announced. Earlier, showering praise on the organisers, Ambani said: “I have never seen a state capital so beautifully decked up as I am seeing here.” “Our PM has a dream —to turn UP into a ‘sarottam pradesh’. Will it be realised? I say, it will. We will all join together to make it happen,” he said, adding that UP was fortunate to have “a karma yogi like Adityanath” as its CM.
 
 Talking about his company’s presence in UP, he said: “Jio is one of the largest investors in UP with investments of over Rs 20,000 crore… I am happy to inform that it (Jio) will reach all villages of the state by the end of 2018.”
 
 
