NEW DELHI: The   party, the CPM, the AIADMK, the AIMIM and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will support a   against the BJP-led NDA government; the Trinamool Congress and the Shiv Sena may also support the motion moved by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and the   Congress Party.
 
 
 
 These announcements of support came today soon after the 

 
   TDP said it's quitting the NDA 
 
 over unhappiness at Andhra Pradesh not being given special status. The TDP had planned to move the   today in the Lok Sabha, but around noon, the Speaker adjourned the House until Monday.
 
 The support of several opposition parties for the no-trust motion means it will be more than comfortably accepted as it will have the support of at least 50 members of Parliament (MPs) in the House, which is a minimum requirement. The no-trust move will be the first such move during the tenure of this NDA government. 
 
 The Congress has 48 MPs in the Lok Sabha, the AIADMK has 37, the TDP has 16, the YSR Congress and the CPM have nine MPs each, and the AIMIM has one MP.
 
 The CPM said the  's "all-round failure" needs to be highlighted.
 
 "CPM supports the no-confidence motion being brought against the BJP government. Its betrayal of the promise of special status for Andhra Pradesh is inexcuseable. Its all-round failure and evasion of parliamentary accountability needs to be highlighted," said senior CPM leader Sitaram Yechury.
 
  
  
 
 AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi said his party supports the no-trust motion for several reasons.
 
 "The MIM party will support the no-confidence motion in Lok Sabha today not only for failure on part of Modi Govt to implement State Reorganisation Act but failure to fulfill their promise to provide employment to youth and for injustice to Muslim women and minorities," said Owaisi.
 
 In fact, the first party to move the no-trust motion was the YSR Congress, which did so yesterday. The TDP said yesterday it would support the motion; it had already signaled its unhappiness when two of its ministers quit the Modi government on March 8.
 
  The BJP appeared to not be worried at the prospect.
 
 "Will see what happens in Parliament, which party chooses to go which way. In a way it is election year and every state has demands and issues, it is not right for us to comment on it. It is a custom, before actual elections there is always a rehearsal in Parliament," said the BJP's MA Naqvi.
 
 The 
  yesterday submitted a notice for a no-confidence motion against the Modi government for its refusal to grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh. Andhra Pradesh chief minister and TDP boss N Chandrababu Naidu immediately announced support for the motion and YSR 
  chief Jagan Mohan Reddy is understood to have sought the backing of other opposition parties.
 
 
 
