NEW DELHI: Rejecting the police claim of “unlawful assembly”, a Delhi court discharged chief minister Arvind   and others in connection with a protest organised by the erstwhile India Against Corruption members on August 26, 2012, against the coal scam.

 The protesters, including Kejriwal and IAC volunteers, were lathi-charged and tear-gassed by the police when they attempted to gherao the Prime Minister's residence. According to the police chargesheet, certain “mischievous elements” attacked the police with flagsticks. It was also alleged that one of the policemen received injuries.
 
 Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Samar Vishal asserted that it was important to balance the citizens’ fundamental rights of peaceful   without arms, besides their right of speech and expression, on one hand, and the right of public authorities to maintain law and order, on the other. “I am conscious of the fact that the right to assemble at a place is subject to reasonable restriction and one such restriction will be the general order and right of other citizens of parallel movement,” said Vishal.
 
 In the view of the court, the prosecution had not claimed that the protesters were up in arms, or that they had any criminal intent in their assembly. “It’s also not the case of the prosecution that there was any general problem of traffic, or that any inconvenience was caused to the other users of the road. Whatever commotion happened there was due to the use of the force by the police, and in consequent retaliation by the protesters,” the court observed.
 
 Defence counsel Mohd Irshad, along with other lawyers, argued that the provision of Section 144 (unlawful assembly) of IPC was violative of fundamental rights. The lawyers also argued that the object of the protest was to carry out a peaceful demonstration in front of residences of the then Prime Minister, UPA chairperson and the president of the opposition in connection with the coal scam. The defence stressed that the police did not produce any video evidence to show the accused’s complicity.
 
 Such cases posed a great challenge as a choice had to be made between upholding the sacred and cherished fundamental rights and the issue of general law and order, the court said. “Since the assembly in this case was not an unlawful assembly and has not committed any offence, I have no doubt in my mind to opt for upholding the fundamental rights of citizens under Article 19 of the Constitution and finding that neither the prohibition of Section 144 CrPC was valid nor validly communicated,” the ACMM held.
 
 
