JAIPUR: Learning from past experience, the residents are not purchasing plots in colonies developed in far-flung areas by the   ( ). 

 Despite inviting applications twice for selling nearly 1,255 plots in three schemes, the JDA has not got response from many residents. Now, the JDA has once again invited online applications to sell plots in Udhay Vihar, Surya Nagar (Block- A) and Abhinav Vihar.
 
 An official informed, “For the third time, applications are being invited. The applicants can apply till April 20. Application fee is Rs 500. The lottery would be drawn on May 2.”
 
 As these schemes are developed in far-flung areas in zone-14, not many residents have applied to purchase the plots. The residents feel cheated by JDA as in past it failed to provide even basic facilities for several years in many of its residential projects. 
 
 Due to absence of electricity and water, the sites of these colonies continue to wear a deserted look. Since 2005, the civic body has launched 31 housing schemes. But there is no habitation in most of the colonies. 
 
 An official source said that the JDA should only start colonies in far-flung areas after seeking no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the water and electricity departments. “Both these departments have locked horns with JDA over the development charge issue. Also, these departments claim the colonies are far away and it is not feasible to provide water or electricity as huge capital is required to develop infrastructure,” the official said.
 
 After the BJP government came to power, the JDA launched many housing schemes after a gap of four years. The cash-strapped body earned a revenue of Rs 700 crore from those schemes. However, this money has not been spent on developing these colonies.
 
 The JDA officials, however , said as the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) is implementation in the state, even the plotted colonies developed by the JDA or any other development authority will have to register online with   website to share the project details. “The RERA will add fascination when buyers will come to know several minute details about the JDA projects online such as time-frame of the development of roads and facility area, supply of electricity and water.” added JDA official 
 
 
