NAGPUR: Mehul Chokshi’s   allegedly resorted to fudging invoices to show a higher turnover in its books, hint documents shown by Deven  , who was a dealer for the company in the region.

 Kothari, a city jeweller, had claimed on Monday that he was duped by Chokshi of Rs1.8 crore, for which he has filed a case. On Tuesday, he told TOI that, strangely, some of the invoices issued by   Group showed the sale value of an item at nearly 10 times the maximum retail price ( ) mentioned in the same bill.
 
 Kothari had been appointed a dealer by Chokshi’s company. His firm had paid Rs57 lakh to Gitanjali Group for supply of diamond ornaments alone. In return, the company had supplied only a small quantity of diamonds, which were allegedly highly overpriced as against the actual value of the gems. This ultimately led to a dispute with the company, said Kothari.
 
 Some entries in the bills left me confused, said Kothari. Often, the bills sent by Gitanjali Group hiked the sale value of an item as much as 10 times higher than the maximum retail price (MRP), he said. TOI has a copy of one such bill.
 
 In the bill dated August 9, MRP of an earring has been shown as Rs10,850, but the invoice or sale value has been recorded at Rs1.36 lakh. This means, for an earring whose price has been capped at MRP of Rs10,850, M/s Kothari had to pay Rs1.36 lakh to the supplier. In the normal course, the invoice value is less than the MRP.
 
 “This was beyond business logic. How could the rate at which Gitanjali is supplying the product be more than the MRP? Considering the trade margins, the sale price should be around Rs8,300, for the same earring. If we had to pay Rs1.36 lakh for an ornament, and sell it at less than Rs10,850, it would only mean a huge loss,” Kothari told TOI.
 
 “When this was pointed out, Gitanjali representatives used to call it a mistake and ask us to destroy the invoice, saying they would do the same at their end. I have shown you only one bill but there are many other such entries. Often, such entries were seen at the end of a quarter,” said Kothari.
 
 Even as Kothari claims to be clueless over the objective behind this, sources in the business say inflating invoice value could have helped Gitanjali Group bloat its balance sheet. By recording a higher invoice value of items, regardless of MRP, Gitanjali Group would have been able to show a higher turnover in its books.
 
 There is a little chance of having such a mismatch in the MRP and sales value in the invoice, said a source in this business. However, showing a higher turnover strengthens the prospects of the company in getting bank finance, said a source in this sector.
 
 Meanwhile, Kothari added that he has already moved the court to recover his money from Gitanjali Group. “Apart from Rs57 lakh paid for the stock-in-trade, funds were also spent on publicity and infrastructure by our firm,” said Kothari.
 
 
