LUCKNOW: Shrieks of joy and exuberance reverberated on school compounds after the   declared its class X and class XII results on Sunday.

 
 Toppers from various schools celebrated their success, calling it a result of their hard work and fairness, thanks to   cameras.
 
 “Each and every mark scored by students is a mark earned for hard work. A copyingfree examination with the help of CCTV camera installation ensured that only deserving candidates who prepared for the exams score,” said class XII student Abdullah Jami of Lucknow Public College. Jami scored 90.2%.
 
 Another student from the same school, Aditi Verma, said, “From the time that we appeared for the board examination till result declaration, we were discussing writing examination under CCTV surveillance and what impact it will have on the overall results”.
 
 Scoring 89%, Shafaq   said, “The impact of CCTV cameras can be seen. Only deserving students who scored well in pre-boards and were continuous class toppers have continued their record of success.”
 
 No different was the scene at SKD Academy where students were busy celebrating their success and discussing being the first batch to write examination under CCTVs.
 
 “The last days in school are memorable for us not only due to the emotions attached with it but also for being the first ones to write the examination under CCTV watch. We are fortunate that the system came in place at our time, leaving no scope for students who believe in taking short-cuts to success by using unfair means,” said class XII student  , who scored 90.3% marks.
 
 Animately discussing hits and misses, a group chatted away in a corner.  , who scored 88.83% marks in class XII, said, “I missed a centum in English by 6 marks. My percentage would have gone up if I had got a little more in science.”
 
 “A transparent examination system not only motivates students but also builds trust in the education system that no undeserving student will win the race without working hard,” said Dhirendra Yadav of Bal Nikunj School.
 
 One group of class X students near the school’s administrative block celebrated success with sweets.
 
 “As soon as I saw my result, I decided to come to school. I called up other friends too to celebrate. It was an emotional moment as we all gathered here after so many days,” said class XII student Sudhanshu Pandey.
 
 At many schools, parents had accompanied students to school where they enthusiastically talked about their children’s performance.
 
