CHANDIGARH: Playing an emotional card by citing his roots and place of birth in Haryana, Delhi chief minister and   convener   is appealing to the people through automated phone calling to attend his Hisar rally scheduled for March 25. 

 Source in the AAP confirmed that Kejriwal's rally in Hisar was an attempt to fill the vacuum in Haryana's politics because of "resentment" against the ruling party and "uncertainty" in other opposition parties of the state.
 
 "Mein  ...I am born and brought up in Haryana but very sad to see the condition of people in the state, where the environment has become unsafe for farmers, women, youth and traders who are are upset. Now the time has come to unite, I am coming Hisar on March 25, I request you to reach there," says the pre-recorded call. Such calls are received across the state these days appealing people for attending Hisar rally that has been named as 'Haryana bachao rally'. The AAP workers are inviting people by giving "yellow rice", a traditional form of inviting people for a big family event in Haryana.
 
 Sources said that Kejriwal would also be visiting his native place in Siwani, which is around 30 km from Hisar that day.
 
 Posters having photographs of Kejriwal, Gopal Rai, a minister in Delhi government, and member of party's political affairs committee, along with party state unit chief Naveen Jaihind have been pasted across the state to invite people for the rally. Jaihind confirmed that party has decided to contest parliamentary and state assembly elections in Haryana and Kejriwal would sound the poll bugle from his home town on March 25. "People of Haryana are looking for an alternate as they are fed up with the divisive politics of the ruling BJP. People in the state have already experienced the rule of congress and INLD, which are now struggling for political survival. Only AAP can fill that vacuum in state and can provide better alternate in Haryana," Jaihind added. He claimed that AAP's rally would be bigger than 'CBI (Congress, BJP and INLD)'.
 
 In the previous parliamentary polls held in April 2014, AAP had performed miserably. All of its candidates had even lost their security deposits. The party had contested on all 10 Lok Sabha seats in Haryana and most of its candidates had finished at fourth or fifth position. Despite strong demands by party workers, AAP had not contested the state assembly polls held in October 2014.
 
 
