NEW DELHI:   heads into his maiden   - to be held at   City, in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland from April 4-15 - as the top-ranked Indian table-tennis player after a stellar run in 2017 that saw him rake up medals at International   Federation (ITTF) events consistently. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Only the second Indian player to win an ITTF singles event - the 2016 Belgium Open - Sathiyan’s meteoric rise has been the stuff of dreams; for his achievements in 2017, the 25-year-old was the recipient of the Mahindra Scorpio Times of India (TOISA) Table Tennis Player of the Year in February. 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 India will be sending its strongest ever table tennis contingent (both men and women) to Gold Coast. After a poor showing at the 2014 Glasgow  , where India managed only one medal, expectations are high from the team to deliver this time around with a marked improvement in standards. 
 
 
 
 
 
 With the top Chinese and European paddlers not competing at the CWG, Sathiyan would be eying both singles and doubles glory at Gold Coast City. Currently ranked 49th in the world, there are only three other higher-ranked competitors who could stop Sathiyan from a podium finish: Nigeria’s Aruna Quadri (22), Singapore’s Gao Ning (33) and England’s Paul Drinkhall (46). 
 
 The Chennai-based player - who is also a software engineer - took the Ultimate Table Tennis by storm in 2017 during which he got the better of World No 8 Wong Chun Ting, No 23 Stefan Fegerl and No 41 Par Gerell. He finished the city-based league as the only undefeated Indian paddler. 
 
 Sathiyan extended his form throughout the year by winning bronze in Thailand, Belgium, and Sweden and also claimed doubles silver at the ITTF Major in Bulgaria and gold at the Spanish Open. He recently won against World No 27 Yuya Oshima, making it to the quarter-finals of the prestigious ITTF World Tour Platinum Qatar Open. 
 
 India have won a total of 12 medals at the Commonwealth Games since the sport was added in 2002. 
 
 
