MOHALI: State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh directed  , a proprietor, to pay Rs 75,000 as compensation and Rs 22,000 as litgation cost for delay of more than eight years in handing over the possession of an apartment to   residents, currently based in UK.

 Complainants   and his wife in their complaint stated that during one of their telephonic conversations, Kaur mentioned that she was the proprietor and had then become a property developer under the name and style of Ambey Apartments and was in process of developing 3 BHK apartments at Kharar in Punjab. Keeping in mind the assurances and various salient features of the flat mentioned in the brochure, the complainants booked the unit in the project. Thereafter, the apartment sale agreement was signed on July 8, 2008.
 
 The project was meant to be completed till June 15, 2009 but they neither completed the said project within time nor intimated the complainants by way of written communication for obtaining the physical possession till date. It was further stated that neither the Ambey Apartment was registered with   (Gmada) nor the project was approved by the competent authorities, as they have not got the necessary permissions or licenses from various departments and till date, the completion certificate has not been even applied for.
 
 In the written reply, Kaur stated that as per the agreement, possession was promised to be given after the making of full payment but the complainants failed to make the payment in time and they made the full payment in the month of October, 2012 instead of 2009. It was further stated that despite the delayed payment made by the complainants, they were ready to give possession of the unit to the complainants but the latter had not come forward to get possession. Kaur said the project has been duly approved by the Nagar Council, Kharar.
 
  after hearing both the sides stated that the complainants cannot be asked to wait for an indefinite period, for delivery of physical possession of the unit. Forum added that the realtor had no right to retain the hard-earned money of the complainants, deposited towards price of the unit, in question. “Inserting such a clause in the agreement, whereby, the possession of the unit, in question, was to be delivered after making full payment of the unit, in question and not honouring the same, itself is an act of unfair trade practice,” forum stated.
 
 The complainants are thus, entitled to get refund of amount deposited by them. The proprietor is also under an obligation to compensate the complainants, for inflicting mental agony and causing physical harassment to them.
 
 Ambey Apartments was then directed to refund Rs 16.47 lakh along with an interest at 10% per annum, from the respective dates of deposits onwards.
 
