 Try telling   that a bird in hand is worth two in the bush!
 
  FC Goa find themselves in sixth position for the first time since the Indian Super League ( ) kicked off in November but chief coach   is supremely confident that the table will show the correct picture only when all teams have played equal games. FC Goa, for now, have played three matches less than their competitors and can jump three places should they put it across   FC at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Sunday.
  
  “At this point of time, if I have to choose between fourth, fifth and sixth, I prefer to be in our position when we have a chance to climb up. I think the other coaches would take our position too. At this moment, I prefer not to look at the table because it doesn’t give you the correct picture,” Lobera told TOI during the pre-match media interaction on Saturday.
  
  Lobera has a point. With 19 points from 11 matches, FC Goa are sixth on the table. But if they get three points against NorthEast United, they would have done better than anyone else, except leaders Bengaluru FC and Chennaiyin FC, both of whom they defeated early in the season.
  
  Of course, with Jamshedpur FC and Kerala Blasters picking up points with dramatic goals, the scrutiny around FC Goa has increased, although Lobera makes it clear that neither he, nor his team, is feeling any pressure.
  
  “There is no pressure, only excitement. Excitement to try and improve on the difficult season last year. Fortunately, our place in the top four depends entirely on us,” said Lobera.
  
  Much of FC Goa’s chances of qualifying will revolve around Sunday’s battle against NorthEast, a team that scored a surprise victory in the away clash. Much will also depend how Lobera solves the tricky defensive puzzle, particularly with right-back Seriton Fernandes suspended.
  
  Assuming Bruno Pinheiro has regained fitness and declared fit for the match, Lobera still needs to find someone to replace Seriton. For a week now, he’s tried at least four players in that position but none from Pronay Halder, Amey Ranawade, Jonathan Cardozo and Prathesh Shirodkar have been convincing enough. That has led to suggestions of a three-man defence but whether Lobera bites the bullet in such a crucial tie remains to be seen.
  
  “There will be changes. But whatever the changes, our style of play will remain the same,” said the Spanish coach.
  
  NorthEast United need a miracle to qualify for the semifinals, and although nobody admits it publicly, privately nobody needs any reminding that they are destined to finish yet another season without qualifying for the playoffs.
  The arrival of Israeli manager Avram Grant has sparked a turnaround though. From drawing a blank in six of their first seven matches, the Highlanders have scored six goals in their last four matches, which includes impressive wins at home against FC Goa (2-1) and Chennaiyin FC (3-1). With a little bit of luck, they could have made Bengaluru FC eat humble pie too. But despite the posturing, the season is as good as over for them. Now, it’s all about hurting a few big names.
  
  After the unexpected away defeat, FC Goa will not want to be left red-faced at home. Again.
  
