NEW DELHI: An 18-year-old boy was kidnapped and   by four men in central Delhi’s GB Road area for allegedly snatching a mobile   and Rs 40,000 on Thursday night. All four have been arrested.

 One of the eyewitnesses, Mohammed Anas, who is also a relative of the victim, told the police that he saw four people thrashing Shahzeb while calling him a mobile  . Before Anas could intervene, the men pushed Shahzeb into their white Swift Dzire and sped away.
 
 According to the police, Gobinder Singh (22) had come from Chandigarh on a short vacation to meet Devvrat Rana (21), Gulshan (22) and Sachin (22) and they were driving around the area when the incident took place. While the accused have claimed that Shahzeb snacthed a phone and Rs 40,000 from one of them, the police have recovered the victim’s phone from them. The car has been seized.
 
 Anas told the police that after he informed Shahzeb’s mother, Mehartaj, and brother Areeb, about the kidnap, all of them started looking for him. After almost four hours, Mehartaj received a call that Shahzeb was admitted to BSA Hospital. Cops told her that a policeman patrolling in the area had noticed Shahzeb lying on the road and took him to BSA Hospital but he was declared brought dead. 
 
 The accused had claimed that as Shahzeb started running towards a narrow lane after snatching the phone and the money, they chased him. The police said that after thrashing him mercilessly for some time, the accused kidnapped him. While one of them kept driving, the others thrashed the victim. Finally when Shehzab collapsed, the men threw him out and fled. 
 
 After finding Shehzab’s body, a case was registered and a team led by ACP (operations) Naresh Kumar was set up, said Anto Alphonse, additional DCP (central). A CCTV footage from a nearby area was analysed and the four persons were seen dragging and kidnapping Shahzeb in the white Dzire. Later, cops found from Shahzeb’s mobile phone that they had taken him to Mukhmelpur village near Alipur from the Kamla Market area. 
 
 The accused told the police that while they had found the phone on him, the money was missing. In a fit of rage, they beat him up before bundling him into the car. While driving around, they called the victim’s friend, Jamal, from his phone for Rs 40,000. They also made a call to Shahbez’s mother but both told them that they had no money. On this, they thrashed him more before pushing him out of the car near Mukarba Chowk.
 
 Additional DCP Alphonse said the probe was still on. 
 
 
