Cleared

 Chennai: After suffering a humiliating defeat in the hands of rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran in R K Nagar bypoll, the AIADMK led by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Wednesday directed MLAs to “ignore” Dhinakaran during the forthcoming assembly session and not to even greet him on the floor of the House. Dhinakaran will make his debut in the assembly on January 8.
 
 In an hour-long meeting at the AIADMK headquarters, the leaders exhorted party MLAs, some 104 of them who attended the meet, to be disciplined in the House and be brave against the onslaught of the opposition. Later, fisheries minister D Jayakumar said seven MLAs, including three ministers, Sellur K Raju, Kadambur Raju and G Baskaran could not make it for the meeting due to ill-health and prior engagements. 
 
 The meet assumes significance in the wake of Dhinakaran camp threatening to wake up members of his ‘sleeper cells’ within the ruling camp to destabilise the government in three months. “While leaders were certain not to mention Dhinakaran’s name, EPS referred to him as ‘a newcomer’ to the assembly and advised us to maintain a distance and not to even turn towards him and pay obeisance,” said a senior MLA from the western belt. 
 
 The ministers were told to prepare their subjects well and not to appear sloppy during the session. On the complaints from some members about the “not-so-supportive-media”, which presumably dented the AIADMK’s prospects during the bypoll, the chief minister hinted at starting a television channel and newspaper soon to take on the opposition and to take to the masses government’s welfare measures. Palaniswami, sources say, pointed to lack of coverage in the media, unlike the prime slots taken by a film actor (Rajinikanth) in recent days. Soon after the meeting, the party also put out a list of 12 spokespersons, including four former ministers M Marudhu Alaguraj, the former editor of Namadhu MGR, which is now under the control of Sasikala clan.
 
 For his part, Panneerselvam exhorted MLAs to work for the party's victory in the local body polls expected shortly given the near completion of delimitation exercise by the state election commissioner. OPS told legislators during the meeting that taking up welfare measures in the coming months alone would fetch them seats. The camp sought to convey there would not be any impact of Dhinakaran. “Neither Dhinakaran nor Stalin can pull down the government. We will stay united and ensure that the vision of our leader to run the party and government indefinitely,” fisheries minister D Jayakumar said. 
 
 EOM
 
 
