LUCKNOW: Chief minister   said on the floor of the house on Tuesday that he was a Hindu and hence he had no reason to celebrate Eid. "And I am proud of it," he said while recalling his earlier response to a journalist when asked after celebrating Diwali in   and Holi in Vrindavan, where was he going to celebrate Eid? 

 Replying to the address of the governor to the house, the CM said that he was not one of the those people who wear 'janeu' (sacred thread) inside house and put on skull caps while coming out if required. "I am not like them because I am a Hindu and have no reason to celebrate Eid," he said, adding "but my government would continue to work for a peaceful celebration of Eid."
 
 Cautioning Samajwadi Party,   said that the disruptive brand of politics that the party practises "won't be tolerated and would be dealt with an iron hand." Amid protest from Opposition members, Yogi said that politics and policies of the present-day SP would have saddened socialist ideologue Ram Manohar Lohia.
 
 Trashing the coming together of SP and BSP for UP bypolls, the CM said that the two parties had now become ‘Bahujan Samajwadi Party’.
 
 Reiterating his government’s commitment to improving the law and order situation, he said there was no communal riot in the state and that criminals were on the run due to police crackdown. He mounted an attack on the Opposition saying that it was most unfortunate that the governor had to face paper balls and missiles from them. “It is certainly not democracy and their behaviour is a threat to democracy,” Yogi said.
 
 “When the state is witnessing transition from ‘jungleraj’of earlier regimes, the Opposition is not ready to accept it. Not only on the development side, but on the law and order front also, peace and harmony has made the state safe and secure, while under past governments, whenever there was a festival, people were scared as they were not sure whether it would pass off peacefully or not,” Yogi added.
 
 He also pointed out how the people were accepting the policies and performances of BJP governments, as was evident in the assembly results of Nagaland, Tripura and Meghalaya in the North-East.
 
 He also accused his predecessor Akhilesh Yadav of not giving a single house to the poor while his government in 11months had distributed 8.85 lakh houses to the poor. The CM said that his government had so far provided 65 lakh new power connections and built 34 lakh toilets.
 
 He also said that proposals of Rs 4.67 lakh crore had been received during the recent investors’’ summit, “something which the BSP and SP governments of the past combined cannot claim”.
 
 
 
 
