VADODARA: Vadodara rural police arrested Harshad alias Lalo Patel in connection with the double murder of   and her   Natu Panchal on the outskirts of Sangma village in Padra taluka on May 5.

 Harshad is cousin of Pravina’s husband  . Police had suspicion that   and Panchal were killed over a land feud between the two families by Harshad and his brother   and Shailesh’s wife Pinky. But it turned out that the land feud had ended a month back and Harshad killed Panchal because of repeated insults by him over the years.
 
 Panchal was a close family friend of Ramesh and Pravina. According to police, whenever the couple would visit their farm at Sangma from Bharuch, Panchal would accompany them. During those visits, whenever Harshad used to come near the farm, Panchal used to insult him by hitting him lightly on his head. Harshad told police that Panchal even used to threaten to kill him.
 
 He told police that he was tired of insults and thought that before Panchal kills him, he would finish him off. On May 5, when Panchal and Pravina were going to latter’s home in the village from the farm on a motorcycle, Harshad stopped them and killed Panchal using a sickle. During interrogation, Harshad told police that while repeatedly hitting Panchal, Pravina intervened and in the heat of the moment, he attacked her on her hand. Pravina then told Harshad that she was planning to take care of him, but since he has killed Panchal, she will expose him, Harshad told police. Cops said his brother Shailesh and Pinky had disowned Harshad and he was living alone.
 
 “He was scared that he will be caught if Pravina spills the beans and therefore killed Pravina as well,” said D M Vyas, police inspector, Padra police station.
 
 After killing the duo, Harshad went home and changed his clothes. He also washed the sickle and threw it away in the bushes near his house which was recovered by the police.
 
 Cops will produce Harshad before a local court on Tuesday and plan to reconstruct the crime scene.
 
 
