AHMEDABAD: A   of two different communities that began in 2013, when both were studying in the  , ended with an   under the   (POCSO) filed by the girl. The boy, Ratankumar Bagde, a resident of Saijpur, was accused of having raped the girl way back in 2013, but the parents of the girl had withdrawn the application of complaint following a ‘compromise’. However, Bagde was arrested on Sunday after a fresh FIR was lodged by the girl accusing him of rape in 2013 and 2017 and even threatening her with acid attack. 

 Additional deputy commissioner of police, Panna Momaya, said they lodged the FIR under POCSO because the girl alleged that while they were minors and studying in class X at the same school, the boy had taken her to his house and raped her.
 
 The incident took a turn when the girl’s father got her engaged to a youth of her community. “Ratankumar approached the girl and threatened her saying that if she married the other youth, he would spread intimate photos of her among the community and to the family she was engaged to. We have arrested Ratankumar,” said Momaya.
 
 “According to the FIR lodged by the girl, Ratankumar had once taken her to his house and had sexual intercourse with her against her wishes. When the girl’s parents learned about the matter they submitted an application of complaint, which at the time had ended in a compromise,” said a senior police official.
 
 Meanwhile, according to the FIR of October 2017, by threatening to throw acid on her face, the boy, now a youth, took her to a hotel and raped her. “The girl also alleged that Ratankumar had then filmed the act,” said a senior police official.
 
 When the girl came of age, her parents got her engaged to a youth from her community. “This enraged Ratankumar, who stopped the girl when she was on her way to a grocery shop and threatened to spread explicit photos of her and kill her, if she married the other youth. The girl went home and told her parents about the incident. After that, the girl approached us and we have lodged a complaint,” said a senior woman police official.
 
 
