GOLD COAST: The shadow of controversy could be trailing her everywhere but   still shines through it all. On Thursday, she became India’s most decorated athlete in the  .

 
 The 34-year-old, who began with a silver in the 2006 Games in Melbourne, bagged her third silver in what could be her final Commonwealth Games to take her collection to four. The other medals - a bronze and silver - came in 2010 and 2014.
 
 The Indian, who went into the meet after some solid preparation on foreign shores, straightaway jumped into the lead as her heave landed at 60.41m. The response from defending champion Dani Stevens of Australia, who bagged a bronze behind Punia in 2006, was immediate as she snatched the lead with a throw of 61.39.
 
 Punia never managed to better her first effort, her series then reading 59.57, x, 58.54, x, 58.90m even as Stevens moved from strength to strength, touching a new Games record mark of 68.26 on her fourth attempt at the Carrara stadium.
 
 “I could have done better. If I’m starting with 60, then I should have improved to 63 or 64. But I couldn’t,” she said. A lament followed: “How can I train without a coach. There was no one to tell me the finer points which could have helped me in the competition,” Punia said. Pressed further, Punia said: “Arey, manager log coach banke aaya hain (Managers have come as coaches)!”
 
 Asked whether she felt the gold was out of her grasp, Punia said she was surprised by Stevens’ performance. “I used to train with her, so I know her performance. But today I was surprised to see her fitness. She is a much better thrower and I wanted to fight but that didn’t happen as my throw didn’t come properly,” Punia said.
 
 Asked about her training base in preparation for the Games, Punia asked why was the media so interested in her training. “I have opened the account and given the country a medal. So what purpose would be served by finding that out. I train at home and abroad but yes there are benefits of training abroad. I trained in the USA,” she said with a give-away smile.
 
 On her long standing rivalry with Stevens, starting from 2006, Punia said, “She has got a team of around eight persons working with her. But who is there for us. We train and throw ourselves,” Punia said. “I’ll be around only till 2020 and I hope I can give my best in these two years. After that my body won’t allow me to compete,” Punia said.
 
 
 
 Navjeet Dhillon, who hails from Amritsar, reserved her best for the last as she came up with her best of the day — 57.43m — that pushed her up into the medal bracket. Kiwi Sositina Hakeai, who was sitting pretty in third place till then with 57.16m, suddenly felt the pressure. Hakeai tried to regain the bronze with her last effort but fell just short with 56.96m.
 
 Dhillon who was watching the action with bated breath leaped in joy as the distance appeared on the screen. “I was a bit nervous but I was confident of pulling it off. 57.16 is nothing big for me,” the 23-yearold former junior world championship medallist said.
 
