NEW DELHI: The capital is all set to get its first fully   this month, more than eight years after it was conceptualised by the Centre. The  , Maruti Suzuki India and   will sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Tuesday to install the first phase of the system on the Ring Road stretch between Sarai Kale Khan and Dhaula Kuan.

 In the Rs 10-crore first phase, 160 cameras will be installed at 10 major intersections. The system will be made operational in a fortnight and will be on trial for a year, said sources. The police deploy about 150 men to manage traffic between Sarai Kale Khan and Dhaula Kuan through the day. 
 
 The MoU will be signed by police commissioner Amulya Patnaik and Kenichi Ayukawa, managing director and CEO of Maruti Suzuki India, in the presence of Union transport minitser Nitin Gadkari and Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Special commissioner (traffic) Dependra Pathak said the aim was to have a synchronised traffic corridor with minimal human intervention. “This will help instil discipline among road users without intervention of traffic policemen. We selected the stretch as it is one of the most used corridors in the city,” said Pathak.
 
 According to traffic police estimates, 7-8 lakh vehicles, including the ones going to and coming from Noida and Gurgaon, use the stretch through the day. Last year, cops had issued about 30% of the total number of traffic challans on this stretch. 
 
 Under the project, Maruti will install gantry-mounted speed detection, red light violation and numberplate detection cameras with traffic signals and connect them to a common control room through a cyber highway of optical fibre cables. 
 
 Sources said all cameras would be equipped with non-intrusive sensors capable of capturing movement of multiple vehicles simultaneously and creating an hourly log of it. A vehicle violating the speed limit or jumping a red light will automatically be detected and a challan will be generated from an automatic challaning machine with a grab of the violation. The challan will be sent to the address registered by the car user with the transport authority. 
 
 During the trial phase, cops will monitor the changes in the movement of traffic at Ashram, Lajpat Nagar, Kotla Mubarakpur, Aurobindo Marg, Africa Avenue and Rao Tula Ram Marg crossings during the peak hours. Officials expect the number of challans for red-light violation and speeding to go up by almost 100% after the traffic management system is made fully operational.
 
 Police sources said that if the first phase was found to be successful, another phase would be taken up in which sensors detecting violation of lanes and wrong-side driving would be installed.
 
 
