LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to seven years of rigorous imprisonment on charges of killing his wife over dowry. However it acquitted the four other accused. The court of additional sessions Judge J P S Khurmi also imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 on the convict   Kapoor of Bajwa colony in Jagraon failing which he will have to further undergo imprisonment for a month.

 On October 26, 2014, Jagraon police station had booked the accused Umesh, his father  , mother Darshana Kapoor, brother in law Gagan Kapoor and his wife Kavita Kapoor for the death of his wife   Kaur.
 
 As per prosecution, the complainant- the deceased’s father   of Bathinda said he lived in Guru   and retired as a train driver. He added his 27-year-old daughter married Umesh at Jagraon two-and-a-half-years ago. Post the marriage, his daughter was being harassed for dowry by her husband, Umesh and in-laws demanding a car. He added on the fateful day, the accused called him claiming they had killed his daughter.
 
 Inderjit added the accused told him they had done what they had to do and asked him to take her body away.   said after getting the news he along with his family members went to Umesh’s place where they found Amardeep’s body on the bed. During the trial, the accused claimed innocence claiming he was falsely implicated in the case. 
 
 The Additional Public Prosecutor for the state,   contended that under article 304 B ( ) of IPC, if a woman dies under unnatural circumstances within seven years of marriage at her in law’s house, her husband is liable. 
 
 The defence counsel contended that the woman was infertile and couldn’t conceive. He added Umesh consulted many doctors but they could not treat her and she could not conceive. The defence contended that unable to conceive she committed suicide. The prosecution examined Amardeep’s father and daughter as witnesses in the case. The post-mortem report suggested that Amardeep Kaur had died of strangulation. 
 
 The court after taking evidence on the record convicted Umesh . The additional public prosecutor said the court acquitted the four other accused on benefit of doubt as there was no direct evidence against them in the case. He added the court gave minimum punishment to the convict after taking into account his plea that he was a first time offender. 
 
 
