CHENNAI: A carcass of a turtle lies amid discarded footwear on the banks of   in  : Another victim of rampant encroachment or pollution or a combination of both. As part of an ecosystem, it is a stark symbol of the destruction that appears to have condemned the lake — which now has water like pigswill — to a vile end soon.

  Land sharks and industrial units that dump effluents have conspired to kill off the water body in quick time, say environmentalists and old-timers in the locality. A couple of decades ago, residents said, they used to drink water straight out of the lake. Now they are worried that they may lose the lake if unless action is taken right away.
 
 K Murugesan, a resident of Avadi, has every reason to complain. In 2016, a final project report for eco-restoration of the Paruthipattu lake in Avadi was submitted to the government. Prepared by Chennai Rivers Restoration Trust and   Urban Infrastructure and Financial Services Ltd, the report was filed under the Tamil Nadu Vision 2023 document in ‘Theme 8: Nurturing a rich heritage and preserving the Ecology’, which gives importance to restoration and rehabilitation of water bodies. As per the master plan of the eco-restoration project, 42 water bodies under the Chennai Metropolitan Authority are supposed to be taken up for restoration.
 
 It has been almost two years, and nothing has been done to restore the Paruthipattu lake, which is shrinking due to rapid encroachment, Murugesan said. Many release sewage and industrial waste into the lake. If immediate action is not taken, the lake will soon become a victim of encroachment and pollution, said Murugesan.
 
 E Anbu,   of the  , Tamil Nadu said due to rapid encroachment the area gets flooded during rains. “Water from   will reach  . From there, it will come to Avadi, where it gets blocked. The main reason is the blockage on the southwestern side is due to encroachment. The government has not taken action against squatters,” he said.
 
 The ecorestoration project, if implemented, would save the lake, said to K Sundaravelu, a retired school teacher. Why has the project not been implemented? “I think politicians are backing the land sharks. In 2017, the government proposed to make the site an ecotourism spot. Nothing happened. But there is still hope if immediate action istaken,” he said.
 
 Minister and   of Avadi constituency K Pandiarajan was unavailable for comment.
 
 
