BENGALURU: Politicians have been known to occasionally shed tears. Former chief minister  , a man in tune with emotional upheavals, was noted for his teary interludes in public when the   government was in power. H D Kumaraswamy, Janata Dal(S) leader and another former chief minister, has also had his sobbing moments.

 Voters this week witnessed another brand of blubbing – one that resulted from denial of party tickets.
 
 On Tuesday, BJP leader Shashil Namoshi openly cried as he was denied a ticket to contest from Kalaburagi north. This came a day after former excise minister Manohar Tahsildar wept inconsolably at a press conference, denouncing the party leadership for denying him a   ticket from Hangal.
 
 Two-time BJP MLA Prakash Khandre, who was also denied a ticket, rubbed away tears with his fists, as he was being held aloft by his supporters during a protest march. Belur Gopalkrishna, who failed to get a ticket from Sagar over Hartal Halappa, also showcased watery eyes as he addressed his supporters. N Sampangi (Bagapalli) and Shivaraj Sajjan (Byadgi) too had their eyes welled up as supporters gathered at their homes in large numbers to console them.
 
 In recent memory, big leaders have shown their softer side too. Yeddyurappa wept during a television interview after he was forced to drop his confidante Shobha Karandlaje, following a rebellion by the Reddy brothers.
 
 Chief minister   was in tears when he had to shift from Chamundeshwari, which he represented five times, to Varuna in 2008, following delimitation of assembly constituencies in the state.
 
 Veteran Congress leader Mallikarjuna M Kharge too had his moist-eyes moment when he had to give up Gurmitkal assembly constituency, which he had represented seven times consecutively and contest from Chittapur.
 
 Supporters also recall times when JD(S) leaders H D   and his son H D Kumaraswamy have become emotional in public.
 
 Evidently, shedding tears over a tragic event touches people, but whether the redeyed faces of unhappy ticketaspirants melt hearts is for voters to decide.
 
 
