PUNE: The state health department will focus on strengthening its sample collection and transportation (to testing centres) system to ensure effective roll out of the universal drug sensitivity test ( ) for every newly diagnosed   patient.

 “We received the Union health ministry’s order to roll out universal DST for every newly diagnosed TB patients on Thursday. We have already started strengthening all the four important components of the diagnostics, including collection (of samples), transportation (of sample), testing and reporting (of data),” state tuberculosis officer   told TOI.
 
 State reports about 1.30 lakh new TB patients every year. To detect drug resistance, the patient’s sputum is tested on GeneXpert, a new imported diagnostic device that detects drug-resistant TB in less than two hours.
 
 Currently,   has 73 high-end GeneXpert machines, which are functioning at state-run network of health centres. To speed up the testing, the Union health ministry has agreed to give 42 additional GeneXpert machines to the state, state health officials said.
 
 “The additional 42 machines will be set up at a few more sub-district and rural hospitals, corporation-run health centres and even hospitals attached to private medical colleges. We have already received around 10 new machines. Once we install all the 42 GeneXpert machines, we will be able to implement the universal DST across the state. This will happen in another 10 to 15 days,”   said.
 
 With the testing part being taken care of, what is needed now is to strengthen the sample collection and sample transportation (to testing centres) system mainly at state’s rural interiors and periphery, expert said.
 
 “We have field staff to collect sputum samples of patients, put them in sterile containers and transport them to nearest testing centres. Now, we have to strengthen this collection and transportation system in rural parts and periphery for smooth implementation of universal DST,” Kamble said.
 
 Till now, TB patients in Maharashtra used to undergo the drug susceptibility test when even after two months of treatment their sputum tested positive for the disease, indicating resistance to prescribed drugs. The test was also carried out on patients reporting relapse of TB, and the HIV-infected who tested positive for the disease, as they are considered highly vulnerable.
 
 
