LUCKNOW: Dark patches continue to dot many colonies in Lucknow, despite the fact that the city is striving to bag the   tag. The Centre had launched an LED installation programme last year, but the company responsible has failed to cover all zones till date. 

 Amid complaints about poor quality of lights and the company responsible, EESL (Energy Efficiency Services Limited) not covering all colonies evenly, the LMC claims that LED installation at all sodium points will be complete by next month. However, complaints are piling up. 
 
  resident   said, "The LEDs were lit up during PM Modi's visit last year. After that the company only showed up in December when the state government raised concerns about dark patches."
 
 Malviyanagar corporator,   complains that the staff ignores complaints on the pretext that they don't have permission to install new lights. "LMC says that since sodium lights are not allowed, only EESL will do new installations. However, EESL argues that they are only permitted to do replacements" she fumes. 
 
 LMC's control room receives maximum complaints about street lights - about 100-150 daily. Though the deadline to repair them is three days, over 60% complaints remain unresolved since last three months. An official, requesting anonymity, said, " Since EESL is focusing on replacement of old lights, most complaints of dark patches are unresolved."
 
 Lucknow has 1.36 lakh street light points, of which the company has replaced sodium with LEDs at 75,000. Its project head,   said, "We will replace all points by April-end." On complaints about dark patches, Mishra says, "This will be taken up in the second phase when we will install about 25,000 new LEDs to light up dark patches."
 
 Ranjana Singh of   says, "In my area, LEDs went off only after a month. I doubt the quality of LEDs being used." 
 
 Municipal commissioner   said, "The whole city will be illuminated with LEDs by May. In the first phase, EESL is replacing sodium lights with LEDs. Next, they will light up all dark patches. Their work will be monitored as people are complaining."
 
 
