VISAKHAPATNAM: As a first step towards development of the massive 1691-acre start-up area in Amaravati, the   (Ascendas-Singbridge and  , a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sembcorp Industries) will soon embark on ‘Phase Z.ro’ to set up a visitor centre and exhibition gallery at the site of the Amaravati capital city start-up area in collaboration with  .

 On Monday, the   government issued an order to form the company —   — comprising of all the stakeholders to facilitate the same. “This is the starting point of the project and is designed with various elements. On the one hand it will bring innovative ideas in terms of building material, censor technology, energy efficiency etc, and on the other hand it will also showcase potential opportunities (based on the state’s polices and plans) investors can make use of,” Singapore’s minister for trade and industry, S Iswaran, told TOI. 
 
 He also lauded the state government’s vision of developing a community space, as part of the project, that would give people a first-hand experience of some of the ideas while living up to the tag line: ‘Amaravati — A People’s Capital’.
 
 Speaking about the other positive collaborations, the minister shared Japan’s interest in working with the Singapore consortium and AP government. Asahi Glass and NECA, he said, were among some firms that were keen on partnering with them. “This will allow for a great three-way partnership,” Iswaran said. “We have worked with Japan in the past, in Vietnam and Indonesia where they have developed industrial parks. We have working knowledge and understanding, and also cultural compatibility.”
 
 Indus Coffee, another company from Singapore, also signed a MoU during the three-day meet to set up a coffee plant in Nellore, the minister informed. “They already have a presence in Mambattum, and now want to invest further…so things are moving fast. There is growing awareness and interest among Singapore companies for further investment possibilities,” added Iswaran.
 
 
