HYDERABAD: The average traffic speed of Hyderabad that had improved to 18.5 kmph in 2017 — after remaining stuck at 14 kmph for five years — might once again take a beating now, fear experts, thanks to some major diversions being implemented by traffic cops beginning January 10.

 Already, the city’s traffic is among the slowest in the country. According to a recent sevencity study on traffic movement, that covered New Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata, Bengaluru, Pune and Chennai, apart from Hyderabad, the city stood at the second last position, only ahead of Bengaluru (17.2 kmph).
 
 
  
  
 
 The biggest contributor to this feared ‘slowdown’, experts say, will be the diversion imposed on Madhapur to Road No. 45   stretch, for construction of a four-lane elevated corridor. Once imposed on Wednesday, for a period of six months, this diversion towards Road No. 44 will not only impact the vehicular speed but also increase the commute time of motorists by at least 15-20 minutes.
 
 Roughly, 30,000 IT professionals use this route every day.
 
 “The situation is already bad along Road No 45, especially during peak hours. It takes almost 20-25 minutes to cross this stretch. People tend to avoid the alternate routes as they are narrow and have sudden turns. Now that they’ll be compelled to use these roads, I dread to imagine what the traffic situation will be,” said Sai Krishna, a techie.
 
 If that’s not all, traffic cops are all set to impose another diversion along the road from   to  , for a period three months, which is certain to compound the woes of travellers. As part of this diversion (for the SRDP project), expected to be implemented in a week’s time, one side of the road will be completely closed, confirmed Cyberabad traffic police.
 
 Together, these routes cater to an estimated 50,000 vehicles per day. “The average travel speed will definitely come down due to the diversions. That is because people instinctively find and use the fastest moving routes and the minute the routes are changed the movement slows down,” said  , traffic expert and executive director of Hyderabad Urban Lab.
 
 Cops, however, maintained that the impact of the temporary diversions — along the western corridor — would be limited. “We expect travel time to increase only slightly as people might have to travel 3-5 kms extra. The traffic will increase between 8 pm and 11pm on weekends due to the presence of numerous pubs in the Jubilee Hills area. At no time do we anticipate traffic coming to a grinding halt here,” said L S Chauhan, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Hyderabad.
 
 
