Mumbai: Numetal, majority owned by Russia’s VTB Bank, has offered Rs 37,000 crore for the debt-laden   in the second round of bidding, which is more than double of what it had proposed in the first round. 

 The company revealed the bid amount before the appellate tribunal   on Thursday. The Mauritius-based company also urged the appellate tribunal to direct the creditors to open the second round of bids as they had rejected the earlier offers due to eligibility issues. However, ArcelorMittal, the other prominent bidder for Essar Steel, opposed Numetal’s proposal at NCLAT, arguing that the first round of offers should be considered.
 
 ArcelorMittal’s offer amount in the second round has not been disclosed. In the first round, it had offered Rs 32,000 crore. It appears that Numetal may have an edge over ArcelorMittal in the second round, while the latter has an advantage over the former in the first round. 
 
 The creditors of Essar Steel had said that they would consider the first round of bids provided the participants pay outstanding dues related to non-performing assets (NPAs) as well as sort out other ineligibility issues to be compliant with bankruptcy rules. While ArcelorMittal has offered to pay outstanding dues related to two NPAs in which it held a “passive” stake, Numetal had said that it has no pending dues with any Indian creditors. On the other hand, Numetal changed its shareholding structure after concerns were raised on a member of Essar Steel’s promoter being an investor in the company. Rules prohibit defaulting promoters from putting in a bid for their own companies directly or indirectly. 
 
 Mukul Rohatgi, eminent advocate appearing for Numetal, argued that the second round of bids will help in deriving the highest and maximum value for the asset and for the lenders. “Our bid in the second round is much higher at Rs 37,000 crore. Let there be competition,” Rohatgi was quoted as saying by a news agency. On the other side, Abhishek Manu Singhvi, appearing for ArcelorMittal, said that the second round of offers have become “infructuous” after the company rectified its ineligibility. ArcelorMittal recently parked Rs 7,000 crore in an escrow account to clear outstanding loans related to two NPAs. The matter will be next heard on May 22. The NCLAT also said that the resolution process, which according to rules, has to be completed within 270 days, may be extended. For Essar Steel, that period ends on May 28.
 
 In a statement, ArcelorMittal said that the company has participated in the auction process in “good faith from the start” and had made a competitive offer which it understands was a “superior” one. “While we have always believed our offer was eligible, as a demonstration of our commitment to India and Essar Steel we have indicated to the creditors our readiness to settle outstanding dues of companies where we only had a passive shareholding. We would hope that this very serious offer would be given appropriate consideration and that we will be identified as the preferred bidder for the asset. In our view, it is critical for the credibility of the bankruptcy code that the process is followed fairly and correctly as originally laid out,” the company said.
 
 
