GURUGRAM: Eight-year-old Nisha often asks her mother about her father’s whereabouts. She is still waiting for him to come back home from the hospital. Her mother, Anita Sarkar (26), doesn’t have the heart to tell her daughter that her father isn’t ever coming back. 

 Nisha’s father Shimbhu Sarkar, a 28-year-old worker earlier employed in Faridabad’s crusher zone, died of   in April this year.
 
 Even months before Shimbhu passed away, neither his family nor he knew that he suffered from silicosis, a lung disease. He did often have trouble breathing while doing anything slightly strenuous such as taking the stairs or just taking a shower. Between 2015 and 2017, Anita took her husband to multiple hospitals only to be sent back with medication for tuberculosis.
 
 “It was late last year that we found out that Shimbhu was in fact suffering from silicosis — a disease they had not even heard of before,” said Anita.
 
 According to the medical definition, silicosis is a lung disorder caused by inhalation, retention and pulmonary reaction to crystalline silica during mining, stone crushing, quarrying and other such activities.
 
 The Haryana government started the survey to assess the silicosis-affected patients in October last year and by now, around 100 labourers have been diagnosed of the disease across the state and a substantial number of them are from   stone crusher zone. 
 
 After an order by the  , many stone crushing units from Lal Kuan in Delhi had moved to the Pali region in Faridabad. The survey was done in the run-up to the notification of the Haryana Silicosis Rehabilitation Policy. The survey, officials say, threw some serious results and meanwhile three labourers in the Gurgaon-Faridabad region also succumbed to the disease. Eventually in January this year, the state government notified the policy for rehabilitating the workers affected with silicosis.
 
 Under the policy, when a case of silicosis is confirmed by the  , the worker would immediately be asked to leave his current job at the crushers and will be referred to the hospital for treatment. Workers registered under the Employee State   (ESI) Act, 1948, shall be given free treatment at ESI hospitals.
 
 Those who are not registered under the ESI Act, 1948, shall be provided free treatment, investigations and medicines by the health department in all district hospitals and medical colleges in the state.
 
 “In case some tests or medicines or equipment for the treatment of the silicosis-affected worker are not available with the health department, the same would be procured from open market and the payment for the same shall be reimbursed by the labour department,” said Regal Chaudhary, deputy director (industrial health), Faridabad.
 
 Meanwhile, the state labour department is helping these workers rehabilitate through education, awareness, medical treatment and financial assistance. TOI spoke to a few of these workers to find out how their lives were affected by the disease and how the rehabilitation policy has been a big support to them.
 
 Avnish Kumar, aged 39, was diagnosed with silicosis in December 2016 by the Silicosis board and a year later he works as a clerk in an office in Faridabad. “The rehabilitation policy is a boon for us because it didn’t just help us find out about the disease, it also help us start our lives afresh,” said Avnish.
 
 Under the policy, financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh is to be given to the worker and another Rs one lakh to the family in case the worker succumbs to the disease. The state government will also bear the expense of the education of the worker’s children, ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 12,000.
 
 “I have three children, two of them are still studying and the financial assistance has helped a great deal in making ends meet. I don’t know how would have I managed if it was not for the support,” said Lata Vijay who lost her husband to silicosis in November last year.
 
 The policy also has a provision of widow pension of Rs 3,500 for the widows of the workers. Haryana is the first state in the country to formulate the policy with Delhi following up and the state government must be lauded for the policy, however the situation of these workers is still far from ideal. 
 
 But the biggest issue, workers say, is that the men working at the crushers aren’t even aware of the disease and many of them suffer and die in anonymity due to lack of awareness among the workers. “We don’t even know how many lives have been lost to the disease before the surveys began,” said Mahaphool Singh, another worker diagnosed with silicosis.
 
 
