KOLKATA: The death of two college girls, terminally ill Rinki Patra (21) and   (20), on the railway track of Uluberia on Sunday brought back chilling memories of two lesbian lovers’ suicide in Nandigram in 2011. Seven years after the twin suicide and many awareness programmes later, homophobia remains deeply ingrained in Bengal’s social fabric.

 
 Malobika, who runs  , an organization working for the rights of LGBTQI persons, said, “It’s extremely sad that we couldn’t reach out to the girls from Uluberia. We live in a society where family honour rests on the sexual orientation of a person. They could deal with the terminal disease of their child but not with her sexual orientation. This is the harsh truth.” She pointed out most people were open to accepting homosexuality when it did not involve their own families. “Within their family, they can even agree to honour killing.”
 
 Nandigram’s Swapna and Sucheta’s deaths, their families refusal to claim their bodies and complete disregard to the lovers’ final wish of being cremated together was the subject of filmmaker Debalina’s documentary, “…Ebang Bewarish (…And the Unclaimed)”. She later directed a feature film, “Abar Jodi Icchha Koro (If You Dare Desire)”, based on what would have happened had they lived on. During the course of her research, Debalina came across several incidents of homosexual women committing suicide. “Among them were Aparna-Kajli from Bongaon and   from Baguiati,” Debalina said. She pointed out that in 2011, the police found the bodies of 19-year-old Bobby   and 17-year-old Puja Mondal after breaking down the door of Bobby’s home at Boral’s Tripura Sundari area. The two had consumed poison and their bodies were found, with their arms around each other. Then, two Class X students, Moyna Das and  , ended their lives by consuming poison in Purulia’s Gulgora village. In another incident, two women from Jalpaiguri got married by exchanging rudraksh and chose the same spot to commit suicide. All of them apparently chose to end their lives as they could not bear the opposition to their relationships and they could not endure the thought of being separated.
 
 “Earlier, people would call these incidents, ‘death of close friends’. Now, the inhibition of using phrases, like ‘lesbian lovers’ has gone,” Debalina said. According to her, many parents of children in samesex relationships watched her documentary and were more accepting.
 
 According psychiatrist Ranjita Biswas, over the years many lesbian couples have reached out to helplines and have found the confidence of living according to their sexual choices. “Awareness has led to many lesbian women coming out of the closet. This has increased their friction with society. Counselling has helped them deal with the friction. The Uluberia incident is unfortunate. But, we have saved many girls who thought they would end their lives because of society’s rejection.”
 
