LUDHIANA: The district consumer disputes redressal forum has penalized a health insurance company for improper rejection of claim of a person, who had to undergo treatment for a disease. Forum president   and member Param Jit Singh Bewli ordered   to pay a compensation of Rs 25,000 for mental agony and harassment and litigation expenses of Rs 10,000 to 67-year-old Swarn   of   in Civil Lines.
 
 In her complaint, Swarn Kanta stated that by believing the representation of opposite parties Religare Health Insurance Company Limited, Noida, and its   branch in the city and after getting her medical checkup conducted and undergoing some tests, she had got herself medically insured through policy with validity for period from September 4, 2013, to midnight of September 3, 2016, by paying single premium of Rs.49,195. Shummy Jain was the nominee under this policy. In July 2014, the complainant suffered from fever and was having weakness due to which, she had to get herself admitted at   and Hospital from July 10, 2014, to August 14, 2014. 
 
 While the insurance policy was for insured for a sum of Rs 4 lakh, the complainant had to spend Rs 6 lakh on her treatment. Factum regarding admission of complainant in the abovesaid hospital for treatment was disclosed to the company. Copies of discharge summary and list of payment of expenses were given to the insurer along with claim, but the same was denied vide letter dated November 20, 2014. Hence, the complainant had to pay expenses of treatment from her own pocket. On contacting the officer of the Insurance company at Mall Road for reconsideration of claim, the same again was finally repudiated vide letter dated May 22, 2015.
 
 The complainant said repudiation was illegal and unjustified, resulting in mental pain, agony and harassment.
 
 In joint reply filed by the health Insurance company’s Noida and Mall Road offices stated that the complainant concealed the material facts regarding pre-existing disease for which she had been getting treatment for the past many years and the complainant should have disclosed about the same under head ‘pre-existing disease details’ in the proposal form or at stage of medical examination report. As it was not done, the complainant was not entitled to any relief.
 
 The forum observed that if the complainant would have been knowing about any other medical ailment/condition, then she would have disclosed about the same in the proposal form itself. It added that the complainant herself was not aware of pre-existing medical ailment/condition in question and that is why, she did not disclose the same through the proposal form dated September 3, 2013. 
 
 “Due to this improper repudiation of claim or cancellation of policy, the complainant suffered lot of mental tension and agony and as such she is entitled to compensation for mental harassment and agony as well as to litigation expenses to somewhat reasonable amount by keeping in view her suffering of pursuing this litigation since from July 2015,” the forum ruled.
 
 
