LUDHIANA: Civic officials are going to seek a guarantee from the state government for floating bonds in the name of Ludhiana Municipal Corporation, because only after that they can move ahead with their plan. If Ludhiana   goees ahead, it will be the first MC in   to float bonds, inviting investment from the general public for spending on development works in the city. However, in the initial stage, the plan is to float bonds worth Rs 100 crore, and this money will be spent on development works of the city.

 The officials, after taking a guarantee from the government, will also bring the matter to the knowledge of the mayor and other councillors through the MC house. The department is working on this project for the past more than a year, as they have already checked their ranking through a private firm.   has got BBB+ ranking. However, officials are sceptical whether they can float bonds on this ranking.
 
 One of the officials said he was doubtful whether bonds would be issued with this ranking. Earlier, Ahmedabad and Pune had also issued bonds, but their ranking was far better than Ludhiana MC. He said though in the past one year, MC had become successful in paying back some of their liabilities, even then, they had to pay Rs 220 crore in the form of bank and Hudco loans, as well as to contractors. He also shared that Pune MC — which had raised Rs 200 crore in June 2017 — could not yield a good response later. Therefore, authorities should weigh all the pros and cons before floating bonds in the market.
 
 Chief executive officer of   (LSCL)-cum-MC commissioner   said they would send a proposal to the government seeking a guarantee, and they were hopeful of getting it. He said they would issue the bonds after completing all formalities, and to make their attempt successful, they would involve big corporate houses first of all, and then the public would be given a chance.
 
 However, at present, the department is unable to pay salaries to its staff, and now officials have been told to pay attention towards recovery of pending dues in the beginning of the financial year. Last year, the department was advised to wait until the end of the previous financial year before launching the bonds, so as to improve their financial status, which had actually deteriorated.
 
 
