JAIPUR/AJMER: Heavy dust storm and gusty winds followed by thunderstorms once again scared the residents of eastern and northern parts of the state on Monday. Though it was not destructive compared to the storm earlier that claimed 36 lives in three districts including Alwar, Bharatpur and  , the storms caused abrupt power cuts and damaged road connectivity to some of the villages. The Jaipur Met office has forecasted mild showers and dust storms in northern and eastern parts of the state in the next 24 hours. 

 Since late Sunday evening dust storm followed by hailstorm and thunderstorm were witnessed in the districts including Dholpur, Alwar and Bharatpur districts of the state. “Unlike the earlier storm with velocity of 130 kms/hour that wreaked havoc, the velocity of the storm this time was nearly 90 kms/hour and it was followed by mild showers,” said an official with the Jaipur Met office. At many places in Dholpur and some places in Bharatpur district abrupt failure in power supply was witnessed. 
 
 Similar conditions were witnessed in Ajmer, Bhilwara, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and   districts of the state. In Ajmer dust storm was witnessed in Pushkar and other nearby areas. Weather, however, remained dry in western and southern parts of the state where mercury continued to take an upward swing. Bundi remained hottest in the state with a maximum temperature of 45.6 degree Celsius.
 
 Jaipurites woke up amidst gusty winds and cloudy conditions. A minimum temperature of 25.8 degree Celsius was recorded in the morning and was followed by a maximum temperature of 41.4 degree Celsius in the afternoon. There was a dip of almost 4 degree Celsius in the morning and afternoon temperatures. 
 
 Bundi was followed by Churu where a maximum temperature of 43.7 degree Celsius, Jaisalmer 43.6, Barmer 43.5, Bikaner 43.2, Kota 43.0, Jodhpur 42.2, Ajmer 42.0, Sriganganagar 40.3, Pilani 39.5 and a maximum temperature of 37.5 degree Celsius was recorded in Udaipur. 
 
 In its forecast Jaipur Met office said that light rainfall and dust storm will occur in Ajmer, Tonk, Bundi and   districts of the state in the next 24 hours. 
 
 
