AHMEDABAD:  , which has the longest coastline among Indian states, should have preparedness for calamities like tsunami. It was on November 28, 1945, that a great earthquake off Pakistan's Makran Coast (Balochistan), generated a destructive   in the northern Arabian sea and the Indian ocean.

 The tsumani was also responsible for loss of life in Kutch and Mumbai. Dr  , former secretary and distinguished scientist, is the Union Minister of Earth Sciences. Talking to ToI , Nayak said that in 1945, a tsunami had hit Makran and it had caused destruction right up to the Mumbai coast.
 
 Nayak further said that such an incident occurs once in 100 years. Hence the Gujarat government should immediately conduct an awareness programme to create awareness about the do’s and don’ts in case a tsunami warning is issued.
 
 He said that as very little information is available, people are not willing to trust government warnings. Hence the government should launch an awareness programme very early. Nayak said that an ocean buoy had been placed on the Makran coast which will issue a warning six minutes after a tsunami begins to rise. The government may get two hours’ time to respond, the minister said. This will need quick response.
 
 According to the information available, the 1945 tsunami was responsible for loss of life and great destruction along the coast of western India including Kutch,   and Oman.
 
 Tsunami waves as high as 11.0 to 11.5 metre had struck the Kutch region of Gujarat. There was extensive destruction and loss of life. The tsunami reached as far south as Mumbai. Bombay Harbor, Versova (Andheri), Haji Ali (Mahalaxmi), Juhu (Ville Parle) and   (Khar) were affected.
 
 Nayak further said that apart from tsunami the Arabian sea had also become vulnerable to cyclones. Since 2014, there had been four cyclone threats, the last one, Ockhi, had reached upto Gujarat coast. He said that the earlier the east coast was vulnerable but, due to climate change and changes in the atmosphere, the western coast is now equally vulnerable.
 
 
