Come Saturday, the world will be witness to one of the biggest events of the year in the royal calendar as   (officially known as Prince Henry Charles Albert David of Wales) marries Hollywood actress  . In the run-up to the D-Day on  , all of Britain is already wearing a festive look. With a huge buzz on what the bride will wear, the traditional ceremony, theme, décor, food and other details, here’s a round-up of the grand plans...

 
 
 The venue, St George’s Chapel, holds a special place in the family history. Located on the grounds of   Castle (one of Queen Elizabeth II’s residences), is said to be the place where Prince Harry was christened in December, 1984. 
 
 Contrary to the wedding norms, bride Meghan will not have a maid of honour. She’ll be accompanied by only bridesmaids and pageboys, including   and  . The royal couple have asked Reverend Michael Bruce Curry to give the address at their wedding. Special screens are expected to be put up, so that people can see the wedding proceedings inside the chapel.
 
 London florist Philippa Craddock may decorate the chapel may have white roses, peonies (Meghan’s fave blooms) and foxgloves for the floral displays. They will later be distributed to local charities. The Royal family members are expected to arrive at the chapel at 11.20 am.
 
 
 
 This is still a big question as details about the high-profile personalities expected to attend the ceremony and receptions are still guarded.   has announced that the royal couple are not inviting political leaders, however some may be extended personal invitation. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 There’s no distress over who’s being seated next to whom as the couple have opted for a standing reception. And guests will have a choice of ‘two-bite’ canapes and mini bowls. The seasonal ingredients are said to come from the Queen’s own estates. The couple is said to have been involved in even the smallest details, including the food tastings. They have even chosen an unusual confection for their royal dessert — an elder-flower and lemon cake. Covered with buttercream, it will also incorporate the ‘bright flavours of spring’ and be decorated with fresh flowers’, Kensington Palace said in a statement.
 
 
 
 As   reaches feverish pitch, pundits are also forecasting the styles that will descend on Windsor. Considering it is spring there, hats and florals will dominate. Polka dot prints in beige and navy may also show up. Don’t be surprised if you see puff-sleeves and light pastels with lace ruling the day.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Once outside the chapel at 1 pm, the newly-wed will get aboard the Ascot Landau carriage pulled by Windsor Grey horses for their procession through the streets of Windsor. The pair will then return to St George’s Hall for a lunchtime reception to be attended by 600 guests. Post 7 pm, a close group of 200 friends and family will attend a party (also called the second reception) hosted by the Prince of Wales at Frogmore House. It will have several live acts, with the Spice Girls strongly rumoured to be one of them.
 
 
 
 Harry and Meghan’s wedding will take place on Saturday, which breaks royal protocol as it’s a weekend. Royal weddings have always traditionally taken place on a weekday.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The small and picturesque town of Windsor is already a picture of activity. The place wears a cheery, celebratory look with buntings, Union Jack flags and life-sized photos of the Harry and Meghan. Souvenirs of the royal couple on tea towels, mugs, stationery, wall hangings and other memorabilia are also selling out. Shops and pubs are also displaying life-sized photographs of the couple ahead of the big day. Meanwhile, fans have been advised to set off as early as 4 am for Saturday’s ceremony. Extra trains have also been arranged for passengers for this.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The beautiful, grassy expanse of the long walk — a 4-km path — is the final stretch of the procession route. Food stalls and large screens are being set up there for the convenience of the public.
 
 
 
 
 
 
