GREATER NOIDA: Three persons were killed and two others were seriously injured when an   caught fire after it rammed a   in Badalpur area of Greater Noida in the early hours of Wednesday. The ambulance wasn’t carrying patients but was ferrying a few people who were given a lift by the driver on its way back to Khurja from Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Delhi. 
 
 According to police, the ambulance got entangled in the truck after the collision and was dragged nearly 100 metres. Its door got opened in the collision and two occupants – Manik (25) and Shri Nand Mauriya (55) — were thrown off the vehicle. The two, however, managed to survive. Three other persons, including ambulance driver Lucky, were charred to death. Lucky, a resident of Khurja, used to drive the ambulance for a local hospital. The identities of two others — who were given lift by Lucky — have not been established yet. 
  
 Police said Lucky and his friend Manik had left Khurja with a patient to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday evening. “They admitted the patient to the hospital and were returning to Khurja on Wednesday morning. On the way, they gave a lift to three persons – Shri Nand Mauriya and two others—for Dadri, since they were on the same direction,” a police officer said. 
  
 According to the police officer, when the ambulance reached Badalpur, a truck carrying some iron pillars was moving ahead of it. “The truck was on the speeding lane. Suddenly the driver took a left turn to park the vehicle in a parking lot opposite KRBL company. The speeding ambulance driver coming from behind could not apply brakes on time and rammed the truck,” he said. 
  
 The truck driver tried to speed away after the collision. However, the ambulance got stuck in the truck and got dragged. Local residents, who witnessed the  , called police. 
  
 Madanpal, chowki in-charge, Chapraula, said Manik and Nand Maurya were thrown off as the ambulance’s door opened during collision, and they survived. 
  
 When the police reached the spot, they found the ambulance going up in  . They called a fire tender which doused the flames. Meanwhile, the three persons in the ambulance were charred beyond recognition. The ambulance also got totally destrobed. Manik and Nand Maurya were rushed to the district hospital and later referred to a hospital in Delhi. The truck driver and helper had already parked the vehicle and fled before police reached the spot. 
  
 Investigations found that the truck belongs to a private firm, Nitin Logistics (India) Pvt Ltd, in Ghaziabad. Nitin Chaudhury, the company owner, said that the goods were loaded on the truck at the railway station in Ghaziabad. “The truck was on its way to deliver the goods to a client in Delhi. I received information that there was an accident involving our vehicle. But our driver was not at fault as the ambulance rammed the truck from behind,” he said. Chaudhury said that the truck driver tried to speed away to ensure that the truck does not catch fire. 
  
 Chaudhury said that there are several drivers in the firm and he is yet to figure out who was behind the wheels at the time of the incident. 
  
 Mukesh Kumar, SHO, Badalpur police station, said a case for rash driving and death due to negligence has been registered against the truck driver. “We have seized the truck and launched a search for the driver,” he said. 
  
  
