CHANDIGARH: Mount Carmel School, Sector 47, has told parents, who had dragged the school to court on fee hike, that their wards would not be allowed to continue in the school from the next academic session starting April 4 owing to the “nuisance” created by them over the issue. Parents on Wednesday filed a daily diary report (DDR) and submitted a complaint to Chandigarh   against the school.

 The school, in a SMS to parents, said, “Considering all the relevant factors and your overall conduct during the year, for the betterment of the institution and peaceful environment of the school and to ensure better education, to maintain discipline, positivity and overall development of students, the management has unanimously decided that your ward/s would not be allowed to continue in the school henceforth.”
 
 
  
 
 The SMS has been so far received by around seven to eight parents. No name of any child was mentioned.
 
 “It has come as a major shock to us. We had gone to the school for clarity on the SMS but they refused to meet us. How will our children deal with this embarrassment and harassment?” said  , one of the parents. Her child has just cleared Class VIII. “What nuisance is the school talking about? We never agitated loudly outside or inside the school. All our protests have been silent,” Handa said.
 
 The SMS was received by the parents on Monday and the issue came to light on Wednesday when one of the parents reached the school to meet the principal to get clarity. Even after waiting for more than two hours, she received no response. Other parents were also called. The police was called too.
 
 The school has also not mentioned “promoted to” next class in the result of some students whose parents had approached the court.
 
 “I compared my child’s report card with his classmate. He has topped the class but the school has not mentioned promoted to next class. In his friend’s report card, it is clearly mentioned that promoted to Class VI. This is harassment,” said  , another parent.
 
 “The new academic session begins on April 4 in most schools. Our children will not even get admission in any other school. This is unfair on part of the school,” said  , a parent told TOI.
 
 Gurpreet Katwal, president,  , said, “The school has said that they would meet us on March 26 at 3pm. We will wait for the outcome of the meeting. If not satisfied, we will move the high court. The school should provide us with footage that captured parents creating nuisance in the school.”
 
 The SMS accused the parents of instigating other parents for not paying fees.
 
 “During the session 2017-18 you had instigated the parents of certain other students, adopting unlawful means, not to pay the fee and further contributed greatly in disturbing peaceful fabric and environment of the school. All kind of nuisance was created every now and then trying to disturb the smooth functioning of the School. Either you did not pay the fee and even if paid that was without following the schedule of payment of fee fixed by the School for 2017-18 including the increase fee, to minimum of 8%, was also not paid,” the school said in its SMS.
 
