HYDERABAD: Chief minister   on Wednesday announced a Rs 800 crore waiver on water cess dues from farmers. He said in future no cess will be collected for maintenance of canals. Addressing a public meeting in Medak, the chief minister also announced that the four-lane Medak-Hyderabad Road will be taken up at a cost of Rs 430 crore. The 100-bedded hospital at Medak will be developed into a multi-speciality hospital and a GO has already been issued.

 
 The chief minister laid the foundation stone for the   to house the offices of the district collectors and the superintendent of police. This is the first time,   visited Medak after the 31 districts were created. Earlier, Sangareddy was the district headquarters for Medak. Now, the headquarters will be Medak.
 
 While elaborating all that the government had done in over the last four years, Chandrashekar Rao urged people to vote for TRS for the two Lok   seats from the erstwhile Medak district. “Both the   and   governments have failed at the Centre,” he said and sought ‘approval’ of the public to play a role in national politics. “I will influence the course of national politics and give it a direction. I will show the way to the country,” he said on the developmental works that could be undertaken.
 
 KCR said in the assembly elections next year, the Congress would lose its deposit in 85 out of 119 seats.
 
 Reiterating that Telangana was a ‘rich state’, he said during April when the tax collections are usually low, this time there was an increase of 16.08 per cent. From June 2, he said the new land registration process would become easy with the Dharani website. The buyer and seller would have to go to the office only once and the land documents would be sent to them through courier.
 
 The CM appreciated Medak district collector K Dharma Rao for showing interest in the welfare of farmers. “As an IAS officer, and not a politician, he brought to my notice that Rs 20 crore were pending from farmers and it should be waived. I appreciate this,” he said. He said Medak MLA and deputy speaker Padma Devender Reddy has also requested for the same.
 
 On the power front, CM said the generation had reached 15,000 MW and it will soon reach 28,000 MW making Telangana a power-surplus state. He added that by September end, Mission Bhagiratha will ensure all villages in Medak would get potable drinking water.
 
