KOLKATA: The residents of   in Golf Gardens, where a 15-year old girl from a neighbouring locality was found injured on Friday, hoped for her speedy recovery and expected the culprits to be arrested soon.

 At 7.10am on Friday, a newspaper vendor spotted the girl lying unconscious in an alleyway separating two apartment complexes in Golf Gardens. She was bleeding profusely and had suffered multiple injuries.
 
 A first-floor resident of Baishali — Sanjay Haldar — said he informed the cops as soon as he spotted the girl. “We could not recognise the girl as her face was smeared with blood. We immediately called up the cops and alerted everyone in the neighbourhood,” said Haldar.
 
 The girl — a Class-IX student — is undergoing treatment at MR Bangur Hospital.
 
 Another resident said that the girl would at times visit her grandmother, who works as a domestic help in one of the apartments in the building. “We had seen her here with her grandmother at times. Not only has the incident shocked us all, looking at her in that condition has left us very sad,” said the resident.
 
 On Saturday afternoon, forensic experts and cops visited the spot where the girl was found. While some of them took pictures of the lane, others looked for finger prints with magnifying glasses. A few minutes later, a team went inside the building for about 20 minutes. “We wanted to check if there were any windows or other cavities from which a person could fall or be pushed,” said an officer.
 
 The residents said they will cooperate with the police in investigation. “We want the culprit to be caught at the earliest. It is important to know what the real motive of that person was. The residents of this area will extent all help required,” said another resident.
 
 Many are apprehensive that the incident may drive a wedge between the residents of the building and the girl’s relatives and neighbours as she was found injured inside the building premises.
 
 The residents — some of whom have been staying there for more than three decades — said that the neighbourhood had never witnessed such an incident. “This is the first time something like this has happened here and it has jolted us. I hope the culprits are nabbed soon,” said an elderly resident.
 
