 ( ) is a silent killer. This is because more often than not, it presents without symptoms and many patients first come to know that they have hypertension only when they present with a life-threatening complication of hypertension, such as a heart attack or stroke (paralysis attack).

 Hypertension, if left untreated can damage 5 target organs, namely heart, brain, kidneys,   of lower limbs and retina of eyes. The aim of treating patients with hypertension is to minimize or ideally prevent this “Target Organ Damage”.
 
 90% of people with Hypertension have “Essential Hypertension”. This is the most common type of Hypertension, which has no specific cause. This is easy to control, but needs lifelong medicines, regular check-ups, dietary restrictions and lifestyle modification. 
 
 The remaining 10% of people who are hypertensive are likely to have what is called “Secondary Hypertension”. In this subset of patients, an identifiable cause of hypertension is present. The most common cause of Secondary Hypertension is Kidney Disease. The other causes of Secondary Hypertension include hormonal abnormalities, primarily those of Thyroid Gland and Adrenal Gland. Other conditions such as Obstructive Sleep Apnea and drugs causing hypertension may also lead to Secondary Hypertension. 
 
 A blood pressure check-up, once in 6 months or at least once a year is recommended in any adult over the age of 30 years.
 
 Hypertension, once diagnosed is easy to control and manage. However, there are some basic Do’s and Don’ts for any patient with Hypertension.
 
 
 
 1. Take your blood pressure BP medicines on time.
 2. Follow up with your doctor at least once in 1-3 months.
 3. Check your BP regularly at home with an automated monitor, which will be recommended by your doctor and maintain a Home BP chart.
 4. Cook food without salt and then add 3-5 gms of Table Salt in the 24 hours food (measured spoons of 1 gm are available)
 5. Do your blood and urine tests regularly as advised by your doctor.
 
 
 
 1. Do not stop your BP medicines ever on your own.
 2. Do not eat salty food – Avoid pickles, papads, chutney, excess of savouries and farsan. Also avoid oily food.
 By following these basic Do’s and Don’ts, a hypertension patient can be like a normal person with some dietary restrictions and needing to take medicines on a daily basis. In addition, his quality of life can be as good as any normal person’s and his or her lifespan will be like that of a normal person.
 
 
 
 
