Almost a decade ago, when K N  , an engineer specialising in applied electronics, thought of manufacturing automated vending machines, many laughed at his idea saying the ‘western’ concept would never be accepted in India. Naysayers didn’t deter Mohan, now 36. After starting research and development for the initiative in 2011, he set up his company Beta Automation in Coimbatore in 2014.

 He got his first client the same year. His company, which specialises in making cutomised vending machines has so far sold around 500 machines across the country and is the first in the country to have manufactured medicine vending machines.
 
 Mohan, who has worked in the academic field for eight years before starting Beta Automation says he had always wanted to work in the automation sector, and creating vending machines for the food industry seemed to be a good idea. In 2014, his friend   joined him. They built a snacks-vending machine for L&T, their first client. “Currently, there are very few manufacturers of vending machines in the country. Most people supply machines imported from China and Japan to clients,” said Mohan.
 
 But why make vending machines? “We wanted to provide a way through which people could buy products during closed hours. We also knew that this would help companies expand their wings to remote areas, which offer low investment and easy access to market,” Mohan said.
 
 The machines are manufactured at the company’s plant at  . The company has a research and development centre at Ganapathi. With an employee strength of 32, Beta automation has made a turnover of ?3.5 crore in the past fiscal.
 
 But the journey had its own hiccups. “Vending machines made in Japan and China cost up to ?3 lakh. But they manufacture them in bulk there. We wanted to develop customised machines that can be used for a specific purpose and it thus cost between ?2.5 lakh and ?50 lakh,” said Mohan, pointing to the initial difficulties in explaining the same to clients.
 
 Over the years, the company has catered to industries including apparel, pharmaceuticals, jewellery, tools, stationery, mobile, agriculture and food manufacturing. It has already set up seed vending machines at Tiruvannamalai, Pudukkotai and Dharmapuri collectorates and various agricultural colleges. “The Centre recently decided to install 1,036 medicine vending machines and we set up 12 of them in New Delhi as part of the Mohalla clinics initiative,” Mohan said.
 
 The company is in talks with the   to set up food-vending machines in the   train.
 
 Talking about the safety factor, Mohan said that the screens of the vending machines have vibration sensors, alarms and the capability to identify fake and torn currency notes.
 
 “In another 10 years, vending machines will be popular, just like ATMs are today,” Mohan said. “We are also working on room automation and a concept called room entertainment where people can get their memories captured and displayed on screens. The entire room, in the shape of a container, is like a mobile shop but can be carried from one place to another.”
 
