A polluted Cooum river snaking past her residence notwithstanding, availability of safe drinking water was never an issue for Rathna, a former resident of Thideer Nagar slum on Greams Road. She and her family were taken to Perumbakkam resettlement colony in November 2017 after Greater Chennai Corporation demolished her slum. But, Rathna asserts her situation has worsened after the resettlement. "There is only one tap in the toilet which we use for drinking, cooking and washing," she says.

 At a   held in December last year, 105 slum dwellers relocated to tenements in Kannagi Nagar, Perumbakkam and Semmenchery spoke about livelihood issues they faced since resettlement. The jury panel concluded that the slum resettlement policy adopted by the Tamil Nadu government promoted urban untouchability as it deprived the beneficiaries of gainful employment, accessible education, hygienic living conditions, affordable healthcare and, as a consequence, a dignified livelihood.
 
 Policy failure and bureaucratic negligence being the crux, the jury panel suggested pursuing development of mixed class housing projects at current slum sites in Chennai. Former Madras high court justice D Hariparanthaman coined the idea an ‘economic samathuvapuram’. Identifying vacant government land within Chennai was step one in this process, he said. "When I was judge, I was given one acre property in the city. A judge doesn’t need so much space, not when 2.5 lakh   dwellers are facing the threat of eviction," said Hariparanthaman.
 
 "We are facing this crisis because the government’s resettlement policy focuses on physical infrastructure instead of socio-economic parameters as development indicators," said Vanessa Peter, a city-based housing policy researcher. "The government did not study the pros and cons of replicating the Kannagi Nagar model on people’s livelihoods."
 
 The alternate solution has already been attempted in Dharavi in Mumbai to mixed results. Under it, the government or a private developer can take control of a slum settlement site, for instance, in Chennai, whose real estate value is worth hundreds of crores. Low cost vertical housing projects are built and given to eligible slum dwellers for free. The promoter uses the rest of the land to construct mid to luxury range apartments for potential clients.
 
 A dialogue towards initiating such a policy shift should begin in earnest, says retired bureaucrat Christodas Gandhi. "The ideal situation would be to make it mandatory for apartment promoters to construct low cost dwellings for economically weaker sections in an equal sized area taken up by their project."
 
 Does such a policy suggest that service delivery is biased towards the upper economic classes? "It is hard to erase class divisions from the Indian psyche. An economically weaker family’s chances of better livelihood are improved if high income families reside in the same neighbourhood," Gandhi said.
 
 S Sumathi, head, department of anthropology, University of Madras, seconds Gandhi. "To have a self-dependent geographic space, a neighbourhood must have people of all classes. It is not viable to build a city just for the elites," she said.
 
 Will the concept find takers among builders? "Certainly. But bureaucrats need to advise politicians on this. Mindsets need to change for it to happen," said R Radhakrishnan, former president, Builders Association of India.
 
 
