NASHIK: A fortnight after TOI reported about all four elevators of the regional referral   at   being dysfunctional, things have improved a little as one of the four lifts has started functioning. 

 However, patients continue to use the   of the four-storey building as the only operational elevator is in one corner and known only to the staff.
 
 The hospital caters to patients of entire North Maharashtra and other neighbouring districts. While a proposal of renovating the elevators was made to the state government in July 2017, nine months later only one   has been made operational on a temporary basis.
 
 A patient who got admitted in the hospital for some heart ailment on Thursday said, "This is the second time I am getting admitted here. I got admitted in the hospital exactly a month ago. Even then the elevators were not working. Today I was told that no lift is working. I had to walk to the top floor of the hospital for getting admitted."
 
 He added that if one lift is working, the staff should be informing the patients. "Many elderly patients are seen using the stairs. The attitude of the staff, mainly the guards and ward boys towards the patients is another issue," he said.
 
 A large number of people who are financially weaker come to the hospital for super specialty treatment of heart, kidney or cancer. Senior officials said the rush of the patients is continuous. Considering the figures from April 2017 to January 2018, 51,073 patients were checked in OPD - approximately 5,000 patients are checked in the OPD on a monthly basis.
 
 Senior officials, however, added that though the elevator which is operational cannot be located easily by patients, the doctors at the hospital do tell the ward boys to make use of the elevator for shifting the patient.
 
 Given the continuous snags the elevators were developing, authorities of the regional referral hospital send a proposal to the state government for renovating them. The proposal which was sent in July 2017 got approval in November 2017. Since then the state PWD is in the tendering process.
 
  division deputy director of health Lochana Ghodake said, "The electrical division of the PWD is in the process of inviting bids for getting the elevators renovated. We hope that the concerned department expedites the process and get the elevators repaired on urgent basis."
 
 The hospital has a 50-bed facility for cardiac patients, 30 beds for the urology department and 20 beds for cancer patients. 
 
 
