KOTA : 16-year-old minor and a rape survivor of   village under Kawai police station in Baran district was forced to quit school and stay at home by accused in the case. 

 The victim’s parents had last year sent the daughter to her aunt’s home in nearby   town to study in a private school after she completed Class 9 from a government secondary school in Beelkheda village. She was allegedly abducted on November 21 night by three local youths identified as Hitesh Galav, Arjun Nagar and   from her aunt’s home and gang raped.
 
 The father of the victim, a farmer, who is now striving for justice and security of four other younger daughters, alleged that Narhgarh police lodged a case of kidnapping, abducting or inducing woman to compel her marriage under Section 366 of IPC, instead of rape under Section 376 of IPC and sections of POCSO Act. 
 
 The victim alleged that she was threatened by the police personnel as well as the ‘powerful’ accused. “I was forced to record statements under 164 before the magistrate of   that one of the three accused was her husband and she had left home with him on her own. Nothing wrong was committed with her,’’ she said.
 
 The victim’s father said that being illiterate, he could not understand what case the police lodged and his stated in her statements under Section164.
 
 The Nahargarh police on December 1, 2017 submitted the chargesheet with the final report in the matter.
 
 Later, perceiving no justice for her daughter and looming threat to her life, the victim’s father filed a complaint in the matter to local court at Kishanganj town of Baran district demanding to lodge the matter under Section 376 of IPC and Sections of POCSO Act following which the judicial magistrate of Kishanganj court on January 5 this year directed SP of Baran to investigate the matter and to lodge the case under relevant sections but the court order has not reached so far to the concerned police station for investigation.
 
 “I wish to study to lead an independent life and to get justice but I am forced to stay at home,” she said.
 
 SP of Baran D D Singh said that the survivor did not admit to rape and abduction in her statements following which the final report was submitted. On court’s order to reinvestigate in the matter, SP said reply to the court with the victim’s statements before the magistrate under Section 164 is likely to have been sent to Kishanganj court, he said/
 
 The victim’s age in the police complaint was notified over 18 years without confirming the actual age through documents nor the police carried out the medical examination after the matter was lodged in Nahargarh police station. The school documents of the victim verify her age to be around 16 years with the date of birth on December 25, 2002.
 
 
