CHENNAI: If politics is the art of saying things open to multiple interpretations, actor   seems to have made a good beginning in his newly chosen field. 

 Responding to a question in a magazine column on the possibility of his joining hands with superstar Rajinikanth,   said: "Joining hands with   is not a decision that has to be taken now. Only time can answer that. In fact, both of us have to think on whether to have a political alliance and whether our (different) policies would enable that."
 
 If the "both of us have to think" part enthused some sections eagerly looking for a star alliance, many felt the actor was being cautiously non-committal at the same time. Rajinikanth responded on Thursday with his favourite refrain. "Only time can tell," he told reporters who thronged the gates of his Poes Garden residence. He said "the system has to be set right in   first" before looking for change in other places. "A decision on contesting the local body polls and   elections will also be taken at the right time," Rajinikanth said.
 
 "The alliance, if it happens, will be a political alliance of aryan and dravidian principles. That was a divide created by C N Annadurai from 1949, after forming the  , and which became profound after 1967," says Sudhangan, analyst. While Rajinikanth is seen as an aryan, Kamal Haasan is the dravidian, even though the other dravidian parties will not accept him as one, since he was born in a brahmin family,"   adds.
 
 Many members of Rajinikanth's Rajini Makkal Mandram, which is busy enrolling members, did not rule out the possibility of the two actors having a friendly arrangement. "While our Thalaivar's reach is much wider and his connect with the people is much deeper than that of Kamal, we expect the two to have an understanding during elections," said a Mandram member privy to internal discussions.
 
 While Rajinikanth stands for 'spiritual politics', Kamal calls himself a rationalist. "Their paths are different, but their goal is the same - to change the political system in the state. A political friendship can't be ruled out though nothing has been discussed so far officially," said the insider. 
 
 The source was confident that Rajinikanth, however, would not have an alliance with BJP. "Of course, Thalaivar is keeping everything a secret, but we know from discussions and moves within the Mandram that he would not go with  ," he said.
 
 Rajini Makkal Mandram has announced office bearers for three districts - Vellore, Tirunelveli and Tuticorin. "The rest of the districts will have office bearers over the next two months," he said.
 
 
  
 
