The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority has issued recovery warrants against six developers of Mumbai, Thane, Pune,   and   for the non-execution of orders. 

 
 Among the builders at the receiving end, two are from Pune. One each is from Mumbai, Thane, Raigad and Chandrapur, said a source in RERA. The warrants-under Section 40 (1) of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016-were issued after several homebuyers approached   seeking execution of its earlier orders against these builders, directing the latter to refund money. According to MahaRera officials, these orders were pending and there were repeated complaints.
 
 "We have now forwarded the cases to the collectors of the respective districts according to the directions of the Act," said an official. The collectors of Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Raigad are expected to execute the recovery warrants at the earliest. Another official of MahaRERA said the collector issues an attachment certificate, after which the property is attached. The developer is given a chance to repay the amount. If he fails, the auction process is initiated so that the money due to the complainant is given.
 
 The consumer bodies welcomed the move of issuing recovery warrants. "These orders are definitely pro-consumer," said Shirish Deshpande, the chairperson of the Mumbai Grahak Panchayat.
 
 One of the two recovery warrants to be executed in Pune has been issued against Darode Jog Homes Private Limited for its Padmanabh Phase 1 project at Dudhalgaon. It did not comply to the orders passed by the authority on February 27. There were six complainants from the Darode Jog project. 
 
 Sudhir Darode, director, Darode Jog Homes Pvt Ltd, told TOI that they were planning to approach the high court against the order as they had completed 80-90% of the project. "We will be filing a stay on this order in the high court," he said. 
 
 Another   has been issued against Sigma One Shilp Ventures for the La Cabana project at Mulshi. The developer saidthat they had already approached the HC to get a stay on the order.
 
