KOCHI: State government should inform whether hospital servics is classified as a public utility service under the Industrial Disputes Act, the   directed on Thursday. The government was asked to clarify on the issue when a public interest litigation (PIL), seeking a court order banning the strike by nurses, was heard by the court.

 A six-week notice is required for a person employed in a public utility service to go on strike, according to provisions of Industrial Disputes Act. Considering the PIL filed by A Sathyan, secretary of Forum for Social Justice in Thiruvananthapuram, the court has issued a directive to send a notice to United Nurses Association (UNA) too.
 
 The petitioner alleged that UNA’s strike would affect different units within a hospital such as casualty, inpatient, and intensive care as adequate alternative arrangements have not been made by the managements. The strike declared by UNA violates the right to life of the general public that is ensured under Article 21 of the Constitution, the petition said.
 
 Further, the petitioner alleged that the strike would have a significant adverse impact on healthcare services in the state resulting in closure of emergency rooms, operation theatres, intensive care units, dialysis units, etc. It was alleged that state government had not taken any action to prevent the strike that is going to affect people and their lives adversely, the PIL said.
 
 Nurses protest 
 
 Meanwhile in Alappuzha, thousands of nurses under United Nurses Association (UNA) took part in the agitation at   seeking government intervention to end the ongoing strike. Nurses from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram turned up at X Ray Junction and marched to the hospital, where UNA state general secretary Sujanapal Achuthan is staging an indefinite hunger strike since last Friday. The protest march was inaugurated by UNA state president Jasminsha. 
 
 Traffic along the national highway came to a standstill for several hours as protesters blocked the NH demanding district collector TV Anupama’s intervention. The road block ended after the collector promised to raise the issue before the government. Alappuzha deputy SP PV Baby said normal traffic resumed by evening though many nurses continued their protest in front of the hospital gate.
 
 As many as 113 nurses have been staging an indefinite strike in front of the hospital for the past 178 days, demanding better pay and working conditions, implementation of three-shift system and the reinstatement of two colleagues.
 
 “If government fails to address our issues, we will launch an indefinite strike in private sector hospitals,” said UNA state treasurer Bibin Paul, adding the association might field a candidate for Chengannur bypoll. Anupama said: “We will try to create a platform for holding talks with management and UNA.” A press note issued by hospital director Dr VV Haridas said the strike was illegal. 
 
 “We provide minimum wages to employees through wage protection scheme via labour office along with benefits like ESI and PF. UNA has ulterior motives in conducting a paid strike at KVM,” he said.
 
 
