
Among the films cleared are the recently-released Mayurakshi, Srijit Mukherji’s Uma and Kaushik Ganguly’s Nagar Kirtan. Said director Atanu Ghosh, “Mayurakshi was to release on December 29 and more than the National Film Awards, I was worried about this. We had made the application in the first week of November. 
 
 We wanted to run the trailer on TV for a month but it was not certified. Also, no poster carried the release date. I didn’t want to paste the date on a white sheet on the poster, as many advised us to do. This led to confusion as the audience didn’t know when the film was releasing.”
 
 Atanu was relieved when the secretary to chairman, CBFC, was sent to Kolkata for a week to clear the backlog. “Deepak Tandel came from Mumbai to certify the film. Ours was the first film he cleared,” he said. An industry source revealed that the previous RO had put in his papers and it was not easy to hire someone overnight.
 
 Many approached singer-turned-politician  , urging him to intervene. Kaushik Ganguly, whose Nagar Kirtan was cleared on December 30, is all praise for Babul. “He spoke to CBFC chairperson Prasoon Joshi. The regional office of the censor board did everything in its capacity to help us out. At least five good films would have lost out had the officials not mediated on time,” he said. Kaushik also had a few suggestions for the new RO. “He must understand the aesthetics of cinema and also be in sync with the sentiments of Bengal,” he added.
 
 Babul Supriyo, on his part, said, “I was made aware of the problems and I am always willing to walk an extra mile for my fraternity members in Bengal. My colleagues Smriti Irani and Rajyavardhan Rathore also pitched in.”
 
  is the other director to heave a sigh of relief after the interim panel cleared Uma, which will now be sent to the National Film Awards. “I applied around November 27 and it was not a very long wait. But I was worried about the unpredictability. Though the application process is online, at times the server fails. Also, there’s manual involvement. However, the stop-gap arrangement helped ease the backlog. The censors may suggest cuts, but it has to watch a film first. That process has to be made simpler,” he said.
 
 However, there are a few who had to opt out of the National Awards race. Among them is Pupa maker Indrasis Acharya. “My film was sent long back and the censor board suggested six cuts. Things have not moved much since then. Every time I sent them a letter seeking permission for sending my film to the revising committee, I would be told that the language of the letter is ‘incorrect’. Finally, they said, nothing will happen before January 12. It’s because of the censor board I couldn’t send my film to the National Awards,” rued the director.
 
 Pupa was to release on January 19, but as per the source, the board raised questions about how a death is shown. “There is a bunch of films left to be censored,” added the source. Not depending on the regional office, the makers of Dev-starrer   got the film censored from the Mumbai office of CBFC. 
 
 
 
 
 ‘I was made aware of the issues and I am always willing to walk an extra mile for my fraternity members in Bengal’
 
  — Babul Supriyo
 
 The censors may suggest cuts, but it has to watch a film first. That process has to be made simpler’
 
 — Srijit Mukherji
 
 
  ‘He (the new RO) must understand the aesthetics of cinema and also be in sync with the sentiments of Bengal’
 
 — Kaushik Ganguly
 
 
 
 
