When the 58th edition of the   began in Thrissur on Saturday, it was tinged with exhilaration and disappointment. Thousands, who thronged Thrissur from all parts of the state to watch Asia’s biggest cultural event, were a tad disappointed as chief minister   skipped the inaugural session. Speaker P Sreeramakrishnan inaugurated the fest in his absence.

 Organizers had a tough time explaining the chief minister’s absence as the festival provides a competitive platform to 12,000 young talents, drawn from various schools across 231 items, including music, dance and art. Organizers arranged 24 venues to hold these events and competitions began at 21 venues on Saturday for 50 items.
 
 Education minister C Raveendranath cited ‘pressing official engagements’ amid reports that Vijayan was attending a CPM district conference in Kollam. Agriculture minister V S Sunilkumar, who is the reception committee chairman, said the chief minister had already extended all possible support to the event and that his absence will not affect the event.
 
 But that reply did not go down well with some folks as   activists launched a march, protesting against the chief minister’s absence and the police later took them into custody. A group of KSU activists also tried to take out a protest march, but were blocked by the police, away from the main area.
 
 The speaker, who took part in the inaugural event said: “Government is planning to set up a bank of creative talents in various fields by including the name of top performers at arts festival as well as the students’ sport meet and science festival.”
 
 The education minister added that the government would emphasize on follow-up actions to nurture the talents identified at various students’ festivals. A journal meticulously evaluating the performances of various participants will be brought out after the event to support the performers. Their strength and weaknesses too will be identified during the process.
 
 In a major break from the past, a visual show directed by   replaced the cultural procession that used to mark the beginning of the festival. Several traditional art forms were showcased underneath 12 trees close to the venues located at the historic Thekkinkadu Maidan. A mega Thiruvathirakali was also arranged to add to the cheer and festivities.
 
 The inaugural session started with a song scripted by Murugan Kattakada and composed by M G Sreekumar, along with a dance. Peruvanam Kuttan Marar’s percussion performance and Peruvanam Sankaran Marar’s Ashtapadi followed.
 
 The festival manual has been changed this time and the focus is now on content instead of form. Trophies are being given to all participants, instead of the earlier practice of recognizing winners alone.
 
 Also, the festival will follow green protocol. Waste bins and badges made of bamboo are being used at the festival to make it a plastic-free event. Organic vegetables and food grain were brought for the fest, said Sunilkumar. The minister also presented a ‘Neermathalam’ sapling to the speaker.
 
 
