JAIPUR: If all goes well, the distance between Jaipur and Delhi could be covered in 90 minutes in the future. Ministry of railways is planning to have a semi-high speed train on   route which would run at a speed of up to 200 km/hour. Through an MoU the ministry of railways has appointed an Italy-based railway engineering company FS-Italferr to do a feasibility study for the project at its own cost.

 
 TOI on Tuesday got the details of the project which is also being sent to the   (NWR). Ministry of railways has signed an MOU with the company FS-Italferr to complete the feasibility report and has written to Northern Railways, Delhi and North Western Railways, Jaipur to give required support for the feasibility study. 
 
 In its recent letter to the authorities of the NWR, the ministry has asked them to nominate ADRM, Jaipur as a member of the project working group for the day-to-day interaction and coordination for the study. They have also been asked to nominate an officer who will act as Nodal Officer for the railway for day-to-day interaction with the railway board for the study. 
 
 “They have asked us to share the pattern of operation between two stations, pattern of passenger’s load, pattern of freight train, their speed and length, feature of the tracks, double or single, infrastructure of the track including bridges, platforms, signalling etc and number of level crossings between Jaipur and Delhi. We are compiling the details which would be sent to them in the next 10 days,” said a senior officer of NWR on the condition of anonymity. According to the sources, senior officers including General Manager, NWR, TP Singh and other concerned wings are keen and optimistic on the project. 
 
 When contacted, Tarun Jain, chief public relations officer, NWR, said, “Some details have been sought from us. Yes, it is a part of rail ministry’s initiative to introduce semi-high speed train. A company FS-Italferr will do a feasibility study.”
 
 The rail distance between Jaipur and Delhi is 309 kms and the existing tracks between the two routes can attain a maximum speed of 110 kms/hour. Usually the trains on the track maintain a speed of 80 kms/hour to 95 kms/hour to cover the distance in 5 to 8 hours depending on the number of halts. 
 
 With this project, people can think of completing the journey between the state capital and national capital in less than 2 hours. 
 
 Italferr is a consulting and project company belonging to FS (Ferrovie dello Stato), the Italian railway state company. It is Italian State Railways' Group engineering firm founded in 1984 with an aim to promote Italian engineering excellence in the railway sector in the national and international market.
 
 
