BENGALURU: Normal life in the state is unlikely to be affected on Monday as farmer organisations have decided not to back the BJP’s call for a   bandh to protest chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s failure to keep his promise to waive farmer loans. Bengaluru was anyway exempted since polls are scheduled in   on Monday.

 
 The Federation of Karnataka State Farmers Organisations (FKSFO) on Sunday said it will not be a party to the   as it was politically motivated. “The alacrity with which the call for a bandh was made shows they are not genuinely committed to the cause. We are not going to support it,” said Kuruburu Shantahkumar, chairman of FKSFO, a federation that has over 10 farmers organisations affiliated to it.
 
 Many individual organisations, including the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha (KRRS), led by Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, have also decided not to support the bandh.
 
 BS Yeddyurapppa, leader of the opposition in the assembly, had on May 25 (Friday), announced on the floor of the house that the   would organize a bandh on Monday if the CM failed to announce a farm loan waiver immediately as per his party’s manifesto. Yeddyurappa’s clarion call was in response of Kumarswamy’s claim that his party would have kept its promise had it obtained a majority on its own, but now that it is in a coalition it will take time since has to convince the Congress.
 
 Public life is unlikely to be affected since other sectors including the hotel industry, associations of private taxis and autos, have decided not to take part in the bandh. “As of now, we will operate as usual,” said TS Latha, KSRTC spokesperson .
 
 Schools and colleges will remain open. D Shashikumar, general secretary, Karnataka Associated Managements of Private Unaided Schools, said: “Our schools will function on Monday. It is the first day of class after summer vacation in most of our schools, and we cannot give a holiday on the first day of a new term.” BJP leaders, however, claimed individual farmers will come together to observe a bandh and the party is only supporting them.
 
 
