NAGPUR: It was a fun evening for the audience at the Chitnavis Centre on Saturday, as the participants of   Learning Systems theatre   skilfully presented the play ‘Tik   Tik’. 

 Total twenty-one kids from 5 to 15 years of age participated in the ten day workshop which was a brainchild of Madhavi Kavishwar. The play was directed by Ashlesh Jamre, who has mastered the art of direction with his observation and self study since 12 years in the field of theatre.
 
 The theatre workshop was organized with an aim to help children explore all the dimensions of theatre, including script writing, direction, anchoring, etc
 
 Founding director of FLS, Kavishwar, said that they feel theatre is a powerful tool to teach life skills to children. “Kids today lack communication skills and team spirit despite getting proper attention at home. In a very interactive way, we equipped kids with voice modulation techniques, warm-up exercises and theatre games, that are a part of the routine”, she added.
 
 Talking about impact of theatre in daily life, Kavishwar, said, “Learning about theatre helps children score well in examinations as the creative brain has a lot of work to do.”
 
 Jamre said, “I was amazed by certain ideas that were put forth by the kids. The play was specially designed in a way to incorporate all suggestions given by them. We gave all the freedom to them, from deciding the theme, script writing to even deciding their own costumes.” 
 
 Since the theme of the play was time travel, the children got to see the youth of their parents and grandparents. It also helped them understand the grey areas of a black and white world.
 
 The children pulled off an amazing show and displayed exemplary performances with confidence. Khushi Jaiswal, one of the participants said, “ I learnt a lot from the workshop and will use all the techniques taught to me as and when needed.”
 
 The parents were proud to see their tiny tots perform on stage with such enthusiasm. “This is a really good initiative since we got to know about the hidden talent in our kids,” said Jayashri Bhake, director, principal, Raisoni Vidya Niketan. 
 
