LUDHIANA: It was yet another day of fire incidents in the city — which have increased in frequency over the past fortnight — as two   and a minor one was reported in the city during the past 24 hours. A major fire incident was reported in a furniture factory near Division No.3 Chowk on Thursday around noon. Earlier, in the wee hours of Thursday, fire had engulfed a vacant plot where scrap stored by ragpickers caught fire at around 2.20am. This raging fire could have turned dangerous, as there was a gas cylinder godown nearby. In the third incident that occured around 12.15pm, a minor fire was reported in the PSPCL premises in Old Sabzi Mandi, where unwanted grass caught fire, but was controlled in a few minutes.

 Workers in the BK Furniture factory-cum-godown in Fakir Chand Mohalla near Division No.3 noticed smoke billowing out from a corner of the factory. They tried to douse the flames in their own way, but failed to control it, as the intensity of the fire was high. The fire — located in a residential area with a dead-end — had first engulfed the ground floor of the building. A dozen fire tenders reached here, but firemen faced a huge difficulty in their movement, because the factory had too many obstacles around it.
 
 The smoke and intense heat was felt in the entire street, and residents of a house opposite the factory also had to be rescued by firemen, as they were unable to breathe properly due to the smoke that had filled their house. They rescued four persons from the house located opposite this factory. The firemen entered the house and helped the family members, comprising one woman, Poonam Vij; two males — Atul Kumar and Radhey Shyam — and a one-and-a-half-year-old boy, Aditya Vij, to come out safely.
 
 One of the neighbours, identified as Soni (40), also tried to help the residents of the house, and suffered burn injuries in the process. An Alto car of a neighbour also caught fire, however not much damage was caused to the vehicle. However, two cycles and a motorcycle were completely gutted. Sources said the fire was completely doused after a struggle of over three hours. A huge stock of garments of   — which was lying outside the godown, and ready to be dispatched to clients — also caught fire. 
 
 The sub-fire officer Srishti Nath said the fire was a major one, as two LPG cylinders were also there in the godown. They first of all removed those cylinders to avoid a major tragedy. He said there were hardly any fire safety arrangements in the godown, despite the fact that the owner was in the furniture business, which is vulnerable to fires.
 
 In another fire incident, a major tragedy was averted behind   near Sherpur Chowk where firemen reached in time, and controlled the spread of fire to an Indian Oil gas cylinder godown from a vacant plot. The fire officials said the fire happened in vacant plots being used by ragpickers who collect waste material and plastic carry bags from roadsides and residential areas.
 
 The fire also spread in adjoining plots, and was about to reach the gas cylinder godown. So, the firemen, first of all, controlled the fire from the gas godown side, because had the fire reached there, it might have resulted in a major tragedy. The fire brigade had stationed six fire tenders, and made around 40 rounds to control the situation. The operation was over around 8am.
 
 Yet another minor fire was reported in the PSPCL (Punjab State Power Corporation Limited) premises in Old Sabzi Mandi, where unwanted grass caught fire around 12.15pm. The fire was controlled within a few minutes of the incident, due to which it did not render any damage to the building.
 
 
