KOLKATA: Brokers and property agents have started hounding the three-storey house at   in   —now infamous as the “Fridge Bari” — where police found the body of an 84-year-old woman, preserved by his son at a freezer last week. 

 The agents and brokers, some on foot and others on bikes, can be seen loitering around the house — built on a 4-cottah plot at a prime location facing the main road — making queries in the neighbourhood as well as with few relatives. Some allegedly even tried to approach the house owner, Gopal Chandra  , 89, but he has refused to entertain any such queries now. “There has been several unknown faces outside the building who are talking about the property rates in this area and how this building stands right on the main road. Some are even bringing in others to have a look at the building from outside and are themselves taking photographs of the same on their cellphones. 
 
  
  
 We understand many of them are not just casual onlookers but property agents who are vying for this house,” said  , who runs a tea stall adjacent to the house. According to real estate agents, the current valuation of one cottah land in the area is Rs 32 lakh and since the house is built on a plot measuring little less than 4 cottahs, only the land valuation will cross Rs 1.2 lakh. With a three-storey house built on the land, the entire property can fetch anything between Rs 1.8 crore and Rs 2 crore. “This is a prime property in Behala now. 
 
 The land is located right on the main road and is spread over 4 cottahs approximately. One can easily construct a multi-storeyed building on this land and sell apartments at Rs 5500 per square feet,” said a local agent who also has interest in the property. Built in the early 1970s, the house is one of the oldest buildings in the locality. “Around two years ago, Gopal   (uncle) had approached us to enquire about the property rates. It is a very lucrative property. We had given him some quotations but he never reverted back. Perhaps his son had objected to the deal. We even tried to speak to him over the issue but he refused to discuss,” said a local promoter, unwilling to be named. He, however, added that if the family approached him for the deal, he would be more than happy to go with it. Majumdar’s relatives, however, said they didn’t want to bother him with this issue at this moment. 
 
 “We know property agents are eyeing the property. But we are not entertaining anyone at this moment. We have also asked uncle to be aware of these brokers. He also doesn’t want to discuss this issue. We will soon speak to the local residents and neighbours to make sure that uncle is not bothered by these strangers,” said  , a relative of the Majumdars.
