Iconic film star   was getting ready for a dinner date with her husband   in Dubai before she reportedly suffered a cardiac arrest in their hotel room and died, according to a report in the Khaleej Times.

 Quoting a source close to the family, the daily said Kapoor flew back from Mumbai and went to her room at the Jumeirah Emirates Towers Hotel around 5.30pm to give her a “surprise”.
 
 Boney woke her up and they chatted for about 15 minutes before he invited her for a dinner. She then went to the washroom. After 15 minutes passed, Kapoor knocked on the door to check on her. When he got no response, he forced open the door to find her lying motionless in the bathtub full of water.
 
 “He tried to revive her and when he could not, he called a friend of his. After that, he informed the police at 9pm,” said the source. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The police and paramedics rushed to the hotel, but she was pronounced dead. Later, her body was taken to the General Department of Forensic Medicine for an autopsy. Sridevi, Boney Kapoor, and younger daughter Khushi Kapoor were in Ras Al Khaimah to celebrate the wedding of her nephew Mohit Marwah. Her brother-in-law Sanjay Kapoor told Khaleej Times: “We are still in a state of shock and are heartbroken ... She had no history of heart disease.”
 
 The hotel refused to comment on the matter and an employee said the matter was under police investigation, the report said. The autopsy was completed on Sunday evening and the body is expected to be flown back to Mumbai on Monday. India’s consulate general in Dubai tweeted it “is in constant touch with high authorities of Dubai police to expedite formalities so that the mortal remains can depart for India ASAP (as soon as possible).”
 
 Meanwhile in Mumbai, a statement was released on behalf of the family saying that they were shocked by the “untimely loss”. The body will arrive in Mumbai on Monday, it said.
 
 
 
  
 
 Crowds started swelling outside the actor’s home in Green Acres in Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri, prompting traffic police to cordon off part of the road. Many were expected to wait till the family returned to Mumbai with the body, for a cremation likely to be held in Juhu on Monday. The Kapoors, including patriarch Surinder and sons Boney and Anil, own multiple houses in the Lokhandwala-Juhu precinct. Mourners led by actress Rekha arrived to pay condolence at Anil Kapoor's residence. 
 
 
