NEW DELHI:   encroachment   drives were witnessed across the capital on Tuesday with removal of   from footpaths and   clearing up   from  . However, lack of resources like trucks and earthmovers have made the task of   Delhi within two weeks improbable.

 Special task force (STF) teams from licensing and health departments have been constituted in all 12 administrative zones of Delhi headed by deputy commissioners as per Supreme Court guidelines.
 
 “Three arterial roads under south zone of south corporation were decongested. At Krishi Vihar and Archana Crossing on Josip Broz Tito Marg 90 items, including motorcycles, compressors, iron chairs, gas cylinders and racks, were seized. A dozen vehicles were impounded from Gautam Nagar turn to IIT Gate on Aurobindo Marg,” said an official.
 
 In Najafgarh zone, an unauthorised fish market was vacated and illegal constructions, jhuggies, building material were cleared from a 5-acre gram sabha land in Nasirpur village. “The land worth crores is earmarked for DDA, which has been asked to immediately start wire-fencing it,” said a licensing department official.
 
 TOI accompanied the enforcement team at RK Puram where illegal barricades placed in the service lane by Hyatt hotel were seized despite resistance from the private security guards. Seeing earthmovers, most of the hawkers at the Tuesday weekly market at Vivekananda Marg wrapped their wares and fled.
 
 However, the team still managed to demolish 12 shops and six tandoors and seized items including four iron nets for chicken, 10 wooden counters and vehicles. Vendors with tehbazari licences were spared.
 
 The central zone undertook the drive on two major stretches — Sewa Nagar Chowk to Kotla Mubarakpur on Captain Gaur Marg and Bhishma Pitamah Marg till Modi Mill. “Many cars were impounded and tandoors and sheds of seven dhabas were demolished. On Captain Gaur Marg, three carts were seized and 19 structures demolished,” said an official.
 
 Under west zone, the stretch from Uttam Nagar terminal to Dwarka Mor was cleared by impounding 40 vehicles and removing extended portion of shops. North corporation undertook action around Tis Hazari, Azad Market, Britannia Chowk Ring Road to Anukampa Chowk, among other areas. STF carried out action in Chilla village, Krishna Nagar and the areas near Geeta Colony cremation ground. A total of 61 vehicles were seized from various main roads.
 
 
