KANNUR: Earlier this week, CP Moosa - who runs one of the oldest homestays in the state at   which mainly caters to foreign tourists - was all set to take his guests to some temple in the interior areas of Panur, when he got a call saying that there was some tension in the locality and it would be better his guests stayed put at his place. 

 This is not the first such incident in his life and such developments often dampen the mood of visitors, he said. "Tourists come here with great expectations, especially during Theyyam seasons. Unfortunately, we cannot take them to all such venues because of the fear of clashes and we are compelled to change the itinerary," he said. When tourists arrive, there should not such scares as they are here to enjoy, he added,
 
 "Because of the initiatives started by like-minded people Malabar was opened as a destination, but if there is an uncertainty, tour operators who send tourists here might be hesitant and it will affect tourism," said Moosa, whose homestay   is a destination for foreign tourists. If authorities fail to take steps to promote tourism in the real sense, it will go to the dogs in Malabar, he said.
 
 Tourism in north Malabar has not been affected much despite the tension here because the tourist inflow, especially foreigners, is very less, said Ernakulam-based tour operator and destination manager, Madhu S Kayarat.
 
 But, once the airport is commissioned, more tourists are expected and we should develop more destinations instead of promoting violence. If the foreign tourists do not come, even airlines will be hesitant to operate services here, he added.
 
 "As of now, most of the foreign tourists visiting north Malabar have mainly three destinations in mind - Bekal, Coorg and Wayanad. This mindset should change and we should be able to promote more destinations in Kannur, along with good hotels," he said.
 
 Both the lack of infrastructure and the fear of violence are dampeners and there should be sincere efforts to change the same, said Navaz V C, who is the senior manager of  , one of the oldest tour operators in Kerala.
 
 "When we celebrate hartal here, neighbouring countries like Maldives and Sri Lanka and other neighbouring States are benefitting from this unwanted holiday and the lack of good hotels further worsens the situation," he said.
 
 Even in a communist nation like Vietnam, tourism infrastructure is intact and even amid tension such as the recent coup in Maldives, tourist inflow was not affected because they kept the tourism infrastructure safe, said Navaz.
 
 But, tourism department is highly confident about the tourism potential of the region despite the odds and projects worth Rs 600 crore are coming up here, said department officials.
 
 
