HYDERABAD: The rise in the number of meetings, incentives, conferences and exhibitions (MICE) in the city has led to an impressive growth spurt in footfall, with foreign tourist arrivals (FTAs) to Hyderabad recording a 76 per cent jump in 2017. The domestic tourist arrivals (DTAs) too shot up by 16 per cent last year.

 As per statistics shared by the Telangana tourism department, 2017 ended on a high note with as many as 2.47 lakh foreign tourists visiting mana sheher, against 1.63 lakh who travelled to Hyderabad in 2016. Even domestic tourist arrivals rose from 2.33 crore in 2016 to 2.71 crore last year. Maximum tourist arrivals were recorded between September and December.
 
  
  
 “Hyderabad’s global connectivity, favourable weather conditions and infrastructure to host thousands of delegates for various meetings and conference gives it an edge over other cities. The rise in number of foreign tourist arrivals in 2017 can solely be attributed to the Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES) hosted by Hyderabad,” said an official from the tourism department.
 
 Last year, Hyderabad International Convention Centre (HICC) and   together hosted about 100 meetings, conferences and exhibitions. Apart from GES, other events that drew a high number of delegates were the   Gaming and Developers Conference, Poultry Exhibition, Geospatial World Forum, World Endoscopy Conference, International Conference on Drought Tolerance and the National Congress of Indian Association of Gastrointestinal Endo-Surgeons.
 
 Experts also attributed the spurt in   to the city’s growing prominence as a medical tourism destination. “Apart from meetings and conferences, rise in medical tourism is also a major reason for the increase in tourist arrivals to the city. The state government has promoted Hyderabad as a MICE and medical tourism hub, and that has clearly reflected in the rise in number of FTA and  ,” said  , president of Telangana Hotels Association.
 
 With the state government aiming to attract a millionplus foreign tourist footfall count by 2025, the country’s biggest exhibition and convention centre is also expected to come up in Hitex by end of this year. The announcement was made at the annual International Conclave of the Indian Exhibition Industry’s 8th Indian Exhibition Industry Association’s open seminar by  , principal secretary of tourism. “The convention centre will be able to hold 8,000 people. The total cost is estimated at ₹125 crore,” said Venkatesham.
 
