Coimbatore: A day after a committee was constituted to select a registrar for the Bharathiar University, academicians and members of teacher's unions have raised concerns about the selection process.

 Principal secretary to the department of higher education Sunil Paliwal, who also heads the convener committee of the university, had constituted the three-member committee on Thursday to select a registrar from 13 applications received in response to a call for the post last year. However, academicians and members of teachers union raised concerns over the selection process going ahead with the people, who had applied for the post in reply to a call made during former vice-chancellor B Ganapathi’s tenure.
 
 A source from the university said that the call was issued violating the university’s statutes. “Hence, a fresh call should be issued,” the source told TOI.
 
 There have also been allegations of irregularities against some of the people, who had applied for the post, said president of the Tamil Nadu Government Collegiate Teachers’ Association T Veeramani. “There are irregularities in the promotion of some of the members, who had applied for the post. So, why not call for fresh candidates? The syndicate might say that doing the process from the scratch would cause delay. But, there’s no harm in extending it by a week,” he said.
 
 Veeramani added that they were not asking for the disqualification of the candidates, who had already applied. “We ask for issuing fresh call and adding new candidates in the selection process, so that there would be fair play,” he said.
 
 But, a source from the syndicate said there was no need for issuing fresh call as the convener committee has been functioning with prudence. “Every file is being moved only after thorough examination and clarification. So, there’s no need to worry about the selection process,” the source said.
 
 Currently, professor at the department of Econometrics B Vanitha is serving as the registrar in-charge of BU. On February 8, after the first syndicate meeting following the arrest and suspension of Ganapathi, Sunil Paliwal had said the posts for which in-charges had been appointed would be filled soon. 
 
 Also, a three-member committee has been formed to select a director for BU’s School of Distance Education. Earlier, R Mathivanan, who had been the director in-charge of the school, was relieved from the post as the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-corruption (DVAC) mentioned him name in the FIR. Subsequently, professor and head of the department of Statistics KK Suresh was appointed director in-charge.
 
 
