The ongoing   in   is attracting automobile lovers and speed junkies alike, but there’s one section that has art connoisseurs going gaga, and it’s the zone with installations by   – a group of artists who give a creative makeover to vehicles. Be it traditional designs on terracotta or abstract art and paintings themed around films like Mughal-e-Azam and  , the group has created several interesting arty vehicles. The group has struck a deal with Delhi’s car dealers to paint seven different themes and have also invited artists and art students to work with them. 

  
  Artist Dhiraj Singh painted a replica of a vintage car at the expo
 
 
 
 The artists told us that the students who joined them for car painting suggested that they park the cars at various places to see people’s response. Akhlaq, an artist from Delhi, told us, "It is definitely a bad idea to leave cars without barricades, thanks to the selfie-loving janta! However, it’s great to see that people come and admire our work and take pictures." 
 Shailesh, a DU student who painted a car at the expo, said, "I was told that painting a car takes over one-two months. They have used a lot of popular images, like Amitabh Bachchan’s characters from his popular films, posters of Mughal-e-Azam and Shree 420, and even catchy lines like Tu chal, main aayi." Not just visitors, but even corporate employees of car companies visited the Cartist zone to paint cars.
 
  
  
 This blingy scooter was full of pebbles, shells and pearls embedded on it
 
 
 
 Another major attraction at this year's Auto Expo is   walls created by the   Group. The artists have created two walls at the Auto Expo. Yogesh Saini, founder of the Delhi Street Art Group, said, "We have created two walls at the Auto Expo. Our aim is to take art to the public, and with the event seeing thousands of visitors every day, what better than the Auto Expo to showcase our work?"
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  The installations make for a pretty background for the click-happy visitors
 
  
  
  
  Several artists and art students joined the group in painting vehicles
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
