Visakhapatnam: Nearly 380 school campuses in Visakhapatnam district are echoing with the shouts of girl students who are learning the nuances of   as part of a self-defence   programme that is being rolled out in schools across the district.

 Launched in the second half of December 2017, the programme will have 30 classes, with each class having a duration of 90 minutes. The training programme accords priority to imparting basic self-defence techniques through martial arts such as karate. This is expected to help girl students identify potentially dangerous situations. This is a joint initiative of the department of school education of Andhra Pradesh and the Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA).
 
 P Atchuta Reddy, general secretary of New AP Taekwondo Association, which has been entrusted the responsibility of training the girl students in Vizag district, said, “We have deployed 60 trainers for the programme in the district. These basic tools greatly increase personal protection options for the girl students in dangerous situations. The training programme is aimed at risk avoidance and the students self-realise their own physical power. The classes in the district will end in March.”.
 
 About 3.8 lakh girl students at 5,725 schools across the state are covered under the initiative. This programme has a blend of physical workout with practical self-defence techniques, which are ideal for girl students.
 
 A senior RMSA official said the paradox of self-defence is that the more you are prepared, the lesser are the chances of needing it. “When you can recognise and respond effectively to potentially dangerous situations, you are more confident in your daily activities. The purpose of the training is to provide girl students with short-term goals that reinforce the long-term goal of earning the black belt,” the official said.
 
 As part of the programme, the girls will be familiarised with vulnerable areas of the body, conditioning and flexibility exercises and different types of stances, punches, kicks and blocking techniques.
 
 
