NEW DELHI:   
  kept up the pressure on PM   for a second day today, accusing him of "living in denial" about the "threat of mass unemployment" in the country, something even a   has warned about.

 
 Yesterday, Rahul first called the BJP 'Kauravas' to the Congress's 'Pandavas'. Then he taunted the 
  government over a recent 
  report that labels India's 
  - which Rahul calls 'Gabbar Singh Tax' - as one of the highest and most complex taxes in the world.
 
 
 
 Today, Rahul took aim at unemployment, an issue he's raised many times before.
 
 " The Nobel prize winning economist,   confirms what we’ve been saying for over two years now. Mass unemployment is the biggest threat India faces. Unfortunately, we have a PM who lives in denial. Afraid his   PR will take a beating", tweeted the Congress president.
 
 
  
  
 Krugman, the American economist who won a Nobel Prize in 2008, warned that India could end up with huge mass unemployment if it does not grow its manufacturing sector, reported The Economic Times.
 
 "There is this concept called artificial intelligence that you should be wary of. In future, while diagnosis may be outsourced to a doctor in India, it could also go to a firm based on artificial intelligence. Things like this could be a cause for worry for Indian services sector," Krugman said while speaking at a media event over the weekend.
 
 Krugman said that in Asia, India could take the lead but only if it also develops its manufacturing sector.
 
 “India’s lack in the manufacturing sector could work against it, as it doesn't have the jobs essential to sustain the projected growth in demography. You have to find jobs for people,” he said. 
 
 Yesterday, the Congress president referred to the World Bank's biannual India Development Update report which pegs the GST system among the most complex in the world, with not only one of the highest tax rates but also one of the largest number of tax slabs.
 
 "Modi ji, the terror of Gabbar Singh Tax is now globally acclaimed. The World Bank says it’s the 2nd HIGHEST in the WORLD and one of the MOST complex," Rahul said in a tweet on Sunday.
 
 
  
  
 
 "The tax rates in the Indian GST system are among the highest in the world. The highest GST rate in India, while only applying to a subset of goods and services traded, is 28 per cent, which is the second highest among a sample of 115 countries which have a GST (VAT) system and for which data is available," the World Bank said.
 
 
 
