PANAJI: The   ( ) has sought legal opinion on the procedure to be followed for closure of mines in Goa given that mining activities were brought to a sudden stop in the state following the February 7 Supreme   order, a senior officer with the bureau said. Mines cannot go for total closure as post the auctioning process mining activities will restart in the state, the officer added.

 In its recent order the apex court had cancelled lease renewals of 88 mines in the state and asked the government to initiate steps for grant of fresh leases. The   order also directed mining companies to stop operations from March 16.
 
 “Once we get a legal opinion, we will issue necessary directions,” the senior IBM officer said.
 
 Mine closure involves leaving the lease area in such a way that rehabilitation does not become a burden to the society after mining is over. It must also aim to create as self-sustained ecosystem.
 
 As per the Mineral Conservation and Development Rules (MCDR) 2017, there are two types of mines closure plans: Progressive and final. 
 
 Under the progressive mines closure plan, mining companies have to undertake reclamation and rehabilitation even while the mine is in operation and is a continuous series of activities starting from day one of the initiation of mining project. 
 
 While the progressive mines closure plan is reviewed every five years, in the case of the final mines closure plan, mining companies have to submit their plan two years before the intended date of closure. 
 
 “Not a single company had submitted a final closure plan. Only the progressive plan has been submitted,” the officer said.
 
 The state government has informed the Union mines ministry that 160 mining leases in the state will have to be auctioned when these expire in 2020.
 
 A senior officer in the Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM) said not a single company has submitted a final closure plan. The state government has informed the Union mines ministry that 160 mining leases in the state will have to be auctioned when these expire in the year 2020
 
 
