Stories of grit, determination and dreams coming true filled the atmosphere with positivity at   University on Saturday. At its fourth convocation, chief minister   awarded  . Rehabilitation professional and social worker   was the chief guest at the occasion where governor   was also present. TOI spoke to the top three medal winners.

 
 
 It was peer pressure which forced him to join a master’s course. He chose SMNRU for an MSc in applied statistics in 2015 because the university was close to his place. Two years hence, Vipin Yadav stands as a topper with the chancellor's gold medal, awarded for his score of 87.7%, the highest among all students.
 
 The turning point of Vipin’s life was seeing differently abled students: the visually impaired, hearing-impaired and physically handicapped, struggling each day to study. “They made efforts to use laptops and typewriters. I thought when they, who had 100 reasons to not come to college, are working so hard, why can’t I? They inspired me,” Vipin said.
 
 So moved was Vipin with their dedication that he is now pursuing research in the area upliftment of the differently abled.
 
 
 
 
 Age and disability are no barriers to education. Anju Kumari, 42, not only decided to pursue education after a gap of 19 years but also scored the highest marks among differently abled students in PG.
 
 An accident at the age of 10 years had totally damaged her right hand but not her determination. For one year, she practised writing with her left hand and never took a scribe. She says her husband and young children were very supportive. Anju was awarded for securing 79.6% in MA Hindi. Now, she has joined MA in Bhojpuri. “No knowledge is waste. I had always wanted to learn languages," said Anju.
 
 
 
 
 She has lost 80% vision but used the remaining 20% to excel in studies. The daughter of a small farmer in Basti, Jyoti Mishra has emerged as a winner among all differently abled students enrolled in UG courses. Overall, she has scored the third highest marks—71.4% in BA.
 
 
 
 
 “I used my mobile phone camera to enlarge the words and then read. With the help of mobile recordings, I learnt my lessons and then reproduced it to my writer in exams,” Jyoti said.
 
 Purusing BEd now from SMNRU, Jyoti wants to become a teacher. “It’s difficult for my family to make ends meet. Before sending me to Lucknow, my father told me to study hard. The medals are for him. He will be very happy when he comes to know about my success.” she said.
 
 
