BENGALURU: The BJP on Saturday expressed its "displeasure" over the arrest of Mandya-based Hindu Yuva Sene leader Naveen Kumar in connection with the murder of activist-journalist   outside her home in Bengaluru. 

 Karnataka BJP general secretary C T Ravi tweeted: "  continues its 'neech politics' in Karnataka as the Siddaramaiah government is implicating a Hindu karyakarta from Maddur in the journalist   Lankesh murder case. The state's incompetent CM and home minister are ruining the life of an innocent to cover up their failures." Ravi's allegation comes at a time when Kumar was named accused no. 1 in the case and arrested on Friday.
 
 Ravi's remarks have drawn flak in the social media with many questioning the BJP's intention in shielding the accused. One of the tweets suggested Ravi not to "insult Hinduism by defending a man accused of murder."
 
 The special investigation team (SIT) probing the case will take Kumar to several places in north Karntaka, including Belagavi, to ascertain his alleged links with some right wing activists.
 
 "Kumar had visited Belagavi and nearby villages during May and June in 2017. Initially, he had denied his visits to these places. But he confessed when we showed evidence," SIT sources said.
 
 SIT has some CCTV footages that show Kumar driving a Maruti van in and around Kollegal in Chamarajanagar last year. "Though some CCTV clips are not clear, video captured at a petrol bunk in Kollegal shows Kumar getting down from the driving seat and interacting with the staff. Four youths are seen inside the van and we suspect they are the ones who have played a major role in the murder," sources added.
 
 The team will also take Naveen to   to check with the locals whether they had seen him during the killing of Prof. Kalburgi. "Kumar has been active with different right wing organisations for many years," sources said.
 
 The SIT will take Kumar to different places in north Karntaka, including Belagavi, to ascertain his alleged links with right wing activists. “Kumar had visited Belagavi and nearby villages during May and June in 2017. Initially, he had denied his visits to these places. But he confessed when we showed evidence,” SIT sources said.
 
 SIT has CCTV footages that show Kumar driving a Maruti van in and around Kollegal, Chamarajanagar last year. “Though some clips are unclear, video from a petrol bunk in Kollegal shows Kumar getting down from the driving seat and interacting with the staff. Four youths are seen inside the van and we suspect they have played a major role in the murder,” sources added.
 
 The team will also take Naveen to Kalaburagi to check with the locals whether they had seen him during the killing of Prof Kalburgi.
 
 Kumar alias Hotte Manja, resident of Maddur in Mandya district, was arrested by CCB on February 18 after they seized 15 rounds of live bullets. On March 2, SIT took Naveen into their custody over his suspected role in Gauri murder. His police custody was extended to five more days on March 9.
 
 
 
