JAIPUR: In his first trip to Rajasthan as head of the nation, President Ram Nath   formally launched three schemes of the state government at Birla Auditorium on Sunday.

 
 The three schemes are Bhairon Singh Shekhawat Antyoday Swarojgar Yojana, Sundar Singh Bhandari EBC (economically backward class) Swarojgar Yojana and Rin Maufi Yojna.
 
 Under the Bhairon Singh yojana, loans of up to Rs 50,000 on 4% cent interest will be given to 50,000 ST/SC/ OBC and MBC families.
 
 Under the Sundar Singh Bhandari yojana, a loan of Rs 50,000 on 4% interest will be given to 50,000 economically backward families of the general category.
 
 The loan waiver scheme of up to Rs 50, 000 to SC, ST, OBC, sweepers and ‘divyang’ included in the Budget 2018 was also launched by the president. He presented certificates to five beneficiaries from each scheme.
 
 Recalling his extensive travel experience in Rajasthan, the president spoke about the contributions made by the brave sons of the state as well as those in art, culture, literature, food and textiles of the country.
 
 “This soil has produced great fighters like Prithvi Raj Chauhan, Rana Sanga, Maharana Pratap to Param Vir Chakra Major Shaitan Singh. I am happy to learn that the state has named its several schemes after great heroes in the field of philanthropy—Bhamashah and Panna Dai—whose sacrifices are cherished till today,” said Kovind.
 
 While speaking on brand Rajasthan, he recalled how the president of Israel, Benjamin Netanyahu, had liked and enquired about the tea served to him during his visit in January. “He asked if the tea was made in India. I said it was from Rajasthan. The president was very pleased to know how Rajasthan has progressed in producing olive tea in collaboration with Israel,” said Kovind.
 
 He also mentioned the contribution of the state in the construction of Rashtrapati Bhavan.
 
 
 
 
 “Stones from Jaisalmer, Makrana and Alwar were used in the construction of Rashtrapati Bhavan. The main gate of the Bhawan has Jaipur column,” he said. In her welcome address, chief minister Vasundhara Raje announced that the two much-awaited projects—Ring Road and Walled city beautification—will be completed by August 15. “These projects will change the face of Jaipur. Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari has extended full support for the Ring Road project which will open a new gateway to the city,” said Raje. She highlighted successes made by the government in sectors such as education, social development, economic development and health. Assembly speaker  , state Home Minister Gulab Chand Kataria and city mayor   were among others present during the occasion. Earlier, the president and his wife arrived in a special aircraft of the   (IAF) at the Sanganer airport and was received by the governor and chief minister.
 
