Chennai: Government holdings in public sector banks (PSBs) should be brought down to 31% from 51% for better oversight and prudential governance, said Montek Singh Ahluwalia, the former deputy chairman of the erstwhile Planning Commission of India. “One fear with reducing government control is the need for social welfare. What about agriculture and priority sector lending? All these social purposes can be served if the government has a dominant 31% stake in public sector banks,” said Ahluwalia, who was in the city on Thursday for the golden jubilee celebrations of Industrial Economist magazine. “In the long run, we are all dead. Most economic forecasting gets to operate under the opposite assumption that we will be okay in the long run,” he said on the PNB scam and the issue of bad loans. “I’d agree that the present incapacity of the banks is a huge impediment of the economy. But how to fix it? The usual remedies when it comes to public sector banks is with every problem — there is a little more oversight, more scrutiny, a few tweaks here and there.” He added, “But essentially, this does not solve the problem. There are others, who say, ‘Privatise the banks and all will be all right’. But it has been proved time and again — in other countries too — that private sector banks can also badly go wrong.” The former finance secretary said that the general theory of “market equilibrium will be at play does not work in the question of banks”. “Banking does need strong regulation. But the present legal system does not empower the RBI to act as regulatorWhen private banks get pulled up, the RBI has the authority to ask for a change in the chairman, the board and the top executives at the bank,” Ahluwalia said He said, “But they do not have this authority with PSBs because of the ‘I’ factor. The government believes strongly in the idea of unquestioned sovereignty: If ‘I’ have decided it should be good enough, how can anyone less than the sovereign authority have the power to overrule a decision? This dual structure of regulation disempowers the RBI.” “Appointment and firings should be left to the board. The government can appoint members to the board — but the final decision should be left to the board. For such independence of action, one needs to reduce government equity to below 50%,”Ahluwalia suggested. “Any institution which is 51% owned by the government is subject to all kinds of rules and regulations. These don’t apply if the government holding is lower.”  The former Planning Commission deputy chairman also cited a 1998 national committee report that recommended government equity to be below 50% for effective governance. “Even former finance minister Yashwant Sinha agreed with the view, but he could not find support from his own party. Change is possible, but it should not just be technocrats talking to the government. A broader public debate is needed,” he said.