CHANDIGARH: The two-day 6th World   concluded this evening, while culminating thought-provoking discussions on the history of Punjabi literature, culture and its current standing in the country and the world at Punjab Kala Bhawan, Sector 16.

 Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, Government of Punjab, was the chief guest during the valedictory session.
 
 Speaking during the occasion, Manpreet Singh Badal said though Punjab is going through financial crisis at the moment, we are open to address all the problems related to the Punjabi language. He further said, the problems discussed in the two-day conference are not due to any political party or any person. “Thus we need to address these issues collectively by rising above the party lines.”
 
 The second day of the conference focused on sessions pertaining to the Punjabi literature and its variants along with sessions on the Punjabi diaspora, spread across the globe. Earlier in the morning, Prof Joga Singh moderated the session on Punjabi language. In this session, Suwarn Singh Virk, Sukhvinder Amrit, Dharam Singh and Khalid Hussian spoke on the various subjects related to Punjabi language. The discussions prevailed over the context of the spread of Punjabi literature born out of Gurumukhi and Shahmukhi, towards the foreign lands, where a prominence of Punjabi diasporas is visible and felt. Popular examples like Canada and the diasporas from Vancouver and London were tossed around.
 
 The next session was on literature and other arts. Dr Ravi Ravinder moderated the session. Dr Jaswinder Singh, Waryam Sandhu , Kewal Dhaliwal, Dr Nivedita Singh and Dr   were the speakers for this session. They spoke on the various issues, related to Punjabi literature, culture, theatre, music and cinema.
 
 In a session related to Punjabi diaspora, Sukhi Bath, Iqbal Mahal, Manmohan Maheru and Harjit Atwal, spoke on the subjects related to legal and illegal migration and problems of new entrants as students in various countries.
 
 The next political session was attended by   from SAD, Iqbal Singh Lalpura from  , Dr Bhiminder Singh from AAP and   from CPI(M). The conference was also attended by Anita Singh, the princess of Kapurthala, a patron of Punjabi arts and culture.
 
 All leaders voiced their collective views. They all agreed that the issues taken up in the conference were so serious that all the political parties should stand up beyond the party lines and address them collectively.
 
 Eminent Punjabi journalist, Satnam Manak, gave away the valedictory address at the conference.
 
 
