Mumbai: The   has sought to widen the   by requiring every non-individual entity that enters into a ‘financial transaction’ of Rs 2.5 lakh or more in a financial year to apply for a   ( ). However, as the term ‘financial transaction’ has not been defined for the purpose of this provision, tax experts are receiving a host of queries from India Inc as also foreign entities. 

 Further, to link the financial transactions with natural persons, The Finance Bill has also proposed that the managing director, director, partner, trustee, CEO, founder or any person competent to act on behalf of such an entity should also apply to the   (I-T) officer for allotment of PAN. While   officials say one of the objectives is to track   and their directors and personnel, tax experts find the proposal — as it is currently worded — to be ambiguous.
 
 Ameet Patel, partner at CA firm Manohar Chowdhry & Associates, says, “To begin with, when it comes to a corporate entity (that is, a company), it is already mandatory for it to file an I-T return and therefore also have a PAN, unlike an individual who may not be required to file an I-T return if his income chargeable to tax in India is below the taxable limit. Thus, as far as companies are concerned, the proposal was not required. The corporate affairs ministry already has a database of all companies and its directors. Even shell companies and its directors can be tracked down with the existing database.”
 
 Lack of definition of the term ‘financial transaction’ has raised doubts among the business community. Hitesh Gajaria, tax partner at  , says, “The new proposal, as read literally, has no limits to its applicability, apart from the financial threshold criterion that has been stipulated. It covers cases of all foreign entities, whether related or unrelated, with any Indian taxpayer being obligated to apply to the I-T officer for PAN allotment. To illustrate, the proposal could apply to all foreign entities who either purchase or sell any goods from or to any Indian taxpayer and who therefore ordinarily have no income chargeable to tax in India.”
 
 Thus, a stray export transaction of above Rs 2.5 lakh to a party in India could result in the exporting company having to apply for a PAN. Further, its managing director, each director, chief executive officer, principal officer and relevant office bearers, all of whom are residents outside India, would also have to apply for PAN.
 
 Gajaria suggests, “The provision, though laudatory in its intent to widen the tax base and catch evaders who do not file any tax returns, must be suitably amended to only cover entities that have a direct nexus to income, which is chargeable to tax in India. It must also be restricted in its applicability to only those individuals in actual management of the entity in question.”
 
 Even foreign investors are puzzled with this proposal. Abhishek Goenka, partner and direct tax head at  , says, “This also results in questions, such as whether trustees or foreign investors in alternate investment funds (say, venture capital funds) that invest in Indian securities will need to obtain a PAN number.”
 
 Tax experts are hoping that the Finance Bill will be amended to provide some much needed clarity.
 
 
