MUMBAI: Almost three weeks after the blaze at a   shop in   which killed 12 labourers who were asleep, the   has suspended a senior sanitary inspector and initiated departmental inquiry against four other officers from the building and factory department for dereliction of duty. All the officers are from BMC’s ‘L’ ward. 

 Following the blaze at Bhanu Farsan— a snack manufacturing unit—on December 18, the municipal commissioner had initiated an inquiry. In a report submitted to the civic chief on Tuesday, the probe committee proposed strict action against civic staff for their lapses. While the unit had a licence from the BMC’s Shop and  , it did not have an NOC from the fire department and neither did it have a licence under Section 394 of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act which is issued to eateries by the BMC’s health department. 
 
 Attached with the inquiry report is the Four To Face Departmental Investigation Richa.Pinto@timesgroup.com fire report of the incident. TOI had, in its January 4 edition, reported that ‘defective electric circuit’ was determined as the cause of fire. According to the report, a copy of which is with the TOI, senior sanitary inspector Jagdish Sawant, who has been suspended, has stated in his explanation to the committee that in November 2015 and August 2016 he inspected one farsan unit and another restaurant on Khairani Road. However, he claimed   was locked and no complaint had been received from citizens or corporators either. Sawant had no convincing response on why he did not carry out inspection of Bhanu Farsan on some other day. Sawant was sanitary inspector of the ward till August 2017 only, but he had oral orders to inspect establishments as the officer who succeeded him went on leave. 
 
 Hence, the inquiry team has held him responsible. A senior official said a departmental inquiry was sought against four other officers as they had failed to look into illegalities in the structure such as the mezzanine floor where the workers were sleeping. Those under the scanner include assistant engineer Pravin Vasave, sub-engineers   and Amol Patil and mukkadam Vishwanath Daji Pawar. 
 
 The committee has made several recommendations including an inspection of all the units in the area and the source of their water connections as well as a review of whether they fall under the assessment net of BMC. Local MLA Naseem Khan said, “Action against a few officials is not going to help. A stringent action plan should have been chalked out.”
