MUMBAI: A day after the Election Commission declared the poll schedule for six Rajya Sabha seats from Maharashtra, the BJP leadership is all set to make fresh efforts to persuade former chief minister   to contest the elections as a BJP-supported independent candidate.

 Shiv Sena, meanwhile, is likely to re-nominate Anil Desai, and former chief minister Sushilkumar Shinde is a frontrunner for   nomination, while DP Tripathi is likely to be re-nominated by NCP.
 
 
 The six-year terms of Anil Desai (Shiv Sena), Ajay   (BJP), Rajani Patil and Rajeev Shukla (Congress), DP Tripathi and Vandana Chavan (NCP) are coming to an end.
 
 If a senior BJP leader is to be believed, union human resource minister Prakash Javadekar, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Madhya Pradesh, will be shifted to Maharashtra. State women’s commission chairperson Vijaya Rahatkar and senior BJP leader Shyam Jaju are also likely choices, while Sancheti, a close aide of union transport minister Nitin Gadkari, may not be repeated.
 
 The Congress may re-nominate Rajeev Shukla in view of his clout in New Delhi. If his nomination is not considered, Sushilkumar Shinde could be picked in view of his loyalty to the Gandhi family.
 
 In NCP too, there is vertical split on re-nomination of Tripathi and Chavan. A section of NCP leaders feels Tripathi should be re-nominated, while another section is in favour of re-nominating Chavan, who belongs to Pune.
 
 For BJP, the moot question is whether Rane will contest the   since he had outright rejected the proposal in the past. Ever since Rane quit the Congress, there were talks of his joining the BJP and then his induction in the state cabinet. However, after Shiv Sena warned of withdrawing support to the government if Rane was inducted into the cabinet, he was asked to float his own party and then extend support to the Narendra Modiled NDA.
 
 A BJP leader said the party leadership has made it clear it will not antagonise NDA allies. Under such circumstances, it is not possible for chief minister Devendra Fadnavis to accommodate Rane in the state cabinet. “If Rane accepts the Rajya Sabha nomination, his induction in the union cabinet is possible. Now it is for Rane to decide,” he said.
 
 Rivals of controversial BJP leader Eknath Khadse in the party are also making allout efforts to nominate him to the Rajya Sabha as they want him out of Maharashtra. “I am not a candidate for Rajya Sabha,” Khadse declared.
 
