Vadodara: It is not for the first time that the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has drawn plans for renovation of the Sursagar Lake. The BJP-ruled civic body had made such promise thrice in last 12 years but the development project didn’t take off. In 2006, the then municipal commissioner Rohit Pathak had prepared an ambitious plan to beautify Sursagar Lake and its surroundings to promote it as a tourist place.  Pathak was overseeing the project wherein the lake was to be cleaned up, a bed of flora was to be planted around it and recreation area was to be prepared for children and adults. An Ahmedabad-based consultant was also hired to prepare the designs but the project never took off. In 2009, the civic body again made tall promise to beautify the lake after a proposal to re-introduce boating in the lake was made.  VMC officials had claimed that they would beautify and maintain the lake without altering its heritage looks. However, this project too remained on paper. The boating facility did start in 2010 but was stopped within few months after a rift between the operator and VMC.  In 2012, after a Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) report revealed that Sursagar Lake was the most polluted waterbody in all five cities of Gujarat, the then mayor Jyoti Pandya made yet another promise to beautify the lake, make food court, walkways, a garden and even a hanging pool over it. The project was announced as a part of 150th birth anniversary of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad but nothing happened later.  Lake named after tax collector Sursagar Lake was designed by a tax collector Sureshwar Pandya in mid-18th century. Pandya had helped Pilajirao Gaekwad, the first Gaekwad king, in establishing its rule in Baroda state. Pandya was given the title of Desaigiri (right to collect taxes). He was then called Sureshwar Desai. Sureshwar decided to develop a lakefront around Chandan Talao that was later named as Sursagar after Sureshwar’s name. Later, Maharaja Malharrao Gaekwad made pucca embankments around the lake. The lake was renovated several times later and a Shiva statue was installed at its centre. 