"Jaipur is always fun to visit," says lead vocalist   of band Sanam, as they were in Jaipur recently to perform at a private gig in the outskirts of the city. "This is not our first time. We have done a number of private events in Jaipur earlier. The weather is simply amazing during this time of the year. We performed to a lovely crowd of music aficionados (old and young). Our challenge was to make sure that we keep people of all ages entertained and hooked. Thus, we made our set list accordingly. Overall, it was a great experience being in Jaipur," he shares. With a chock-a-block schedule, the members of the band did not get enough time to explore Jaipur.   says, "We reached in the daytime and straightaway headed for the sound check. Then, we got back, worked on our set list, got ready and left for the show. After the show, we did manage to eat some delicious Rajasthani food. The food was little on the spicy side but that did not stop us from gorging on the delectable food served to us. I love Jaipur ka khana."

  
  
 
  S, the bass guitarist, quips, "I love laal maans. I think it is something to die for; it’s heaven on the plate."  , the drummer says, "I think we come to Jaipur mostly just to eat. Every time we come here, we are occupied with sound check and our show. So the only thing that we do is to gorge on Jaipur’s food and enjoy the weather."
 
  To which Sanam jokingly adds, "This is so true. We are big-time foodies. Agar humein khaane ke liye paise milte to hum sab kitne rich hote." Venkat says that the next time when they come to the city, they would love to move around like any other tourist and see the rich heritage that the city boasts of.
 
  On Friday, the band came up with their new song,  . Sharing the idea behind the song, Venky S, says that the song has been composed keeping Valentine's Day in mind. He adds, "It's our first release this year and is our original composition. It's a light-hearted song about something most people go through while in a relationship. Since, we are four boys, the song is obviously from a boy's perspective. This is our Valentine's Day special song and we hope that everyone will relate to the lyrics and tune of this song."
 
  
  (L-R) Venky S, Samar Puri, Sanam Puri and   Dhanraj
 
 
 The band, Sanam, is known for its renditions of retro classics apart from their original compositions. We ask them if there are any factors that they take into consideration when they choose a retro song. To which Keshav replies that there are no factors as such. However, whichever old classic they decide to revamp, they make sure to not change the soul and melody of the song. "We grew up listening to some beautifully composed and well-written songs, an art that seems to have lost its way these days. Most of the newer music we hear today lacks the soul and complex compositions that we enjoyed listening to. As a band, we decided to make our own renditions of these amazing songs so that the newer generations can get a chance to listen to some well written and composed creations. Our renditions also connect with the older audiences because they get to hear their favourite songs presented to them in a new light. We give it our own sound and flavour, but the soul of the song remains intact."
 
  
  
 
  Opening up on creative differences within the members of the band, vocalist Sanam says, "Each of us has different musical background and enjoys listening to different styles of music. The fact that we have different ideas and creative processes, helps keep our sound unique. We respect each other’s ideas and make sure that we only release a song once all of us are completely satisfied with it. Also, we work on things together so we are always open to trying different options before settling on anything."
 
  
  Sanam band during their performance
 
 Talking about Rajasthani folk music, Keshav shares, "We find Rajasthani folk music interesting. There are so many unique instruments like the khartal, ravanahatha, alghoza, sarangi etc. that are used. We have a playlist on our Youtube channel only for regional music. So far, we have not attempted a Rajasthani song. But we hope to collaborate with some musicians and singers from   to make some interesting renditions of the state's folk music. Personally, I really want to learn how to play the khartal."
 
 
