KOCHI: Even as seafarers and fishermen blame each other for collisions, experts felt that a futuristic sustainable solution would be to build better boats that are suitable for deep sea fishing with effective safety devices.   is building 16 large boats for   fishermen with quality safety devices. Tamil Nadu (TN) government is providing 2,000 such boats to its fishermen under the Centre’s Blue Revolution scheme. Kerala’s proposal to build mechanized boats under the Ockhi package and Blue Revolution scheme is awaiting approval.

 Shipyard sources said boats being built under central scheme is safe. “These boats are equipped for deep sea fishing in a non-indiscriminate way. Instead of trawling, boats will do selective and scientific fishing so that marine environment is not affected. Fishermen will be trained to do so,” said an official. The government has capped the price of these boats at Rs80 lakh. Under the scheme, Centre will allot 50% (Rs40 lakh) of the price, state government will pay 20% (Rs 16 lakh) and arrange a bank loan for another 20% (Rs16 lakh) which fishermen must repay. Fishermen’s contribution is 10 %(Rs 8 lakh).
 
 “The cost of building such a fishing boat may go above the estimated price and fishermen will have to bear the additional burden unless state government pays that sum,” said sources. TN government has already identified 400 fishermen. Once production is completed, these boats will be registered in Ramanathapuram, Pudukkottai, Rameswaram and  , sources said.
 
 Principal secretary (department of fisheries) B   said: “Under Ockhi package, we requested PM for some funding and we are awaiting a reply. Under Blue Revolution we submitted a proposal. The Ockhi package was given to the prime minister. Under it, we asked for 500 mechanized boats worth Rs 600 crore,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile,   of Kerala Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi said that Centre had apparently dismissed a state government proposal to modernize indigenous vessels for deep-sea fishing.
 
 “A two-day workshop was organized at Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute to make indigenous vessels capable of deep-sea fishing. State government submitted a proposal with Rs 1.5 crore as the expenditure/boat. Central government will allot only around Rs 80 lakh/boat. TN is the mostfavoured state as hefty sums are being allotted as funds. The ideal thing would be to modernize their traditional fishing boats,” said Charles.
 
 Meanwhile, an expert with the shipyard said that converting traditional boats was not a sustainable solution.
 
 
