MOHALI: Government railway police (GRP) registered a case of abetment to suicide against Sector 33 resident Ajit Jain on Saturday, a day after his driver committed suicide by jumping in front of a train in Dhakoli.

 In the suicide note he left behind, Jain’s driver,   resident Avinash Yadav, alleged that harassment by his employer and  , over a Rs 1.5-crore robbery at Jain’s house on January 9, had pushed him to commit suicide.
 
 The case has been registered at the GRP station in Derabassi, on the basis of a complaint filed by Yadav’s son, Pankaj. However, Jain has not been arrested yet. GRP inspector Ram Pal, who is the investigating officer, said they would call him for questioning on Sunday. 
 
 In the complainant, Pankaj alleged that his father was innocent and had no role in the robbery at Jain’s house. During the investigation into the robbery, his father was grilled too much by the  , he alleged.
 
 The case was registered on a day Yadav’s body reached his house at Mamta Enclave, Zirakpur. The entire family was in tears by the time the body reached the house. Avinash is survived by Pankaj and three daughters — Sapna, Sarita and Kavita.
 
 
 
 
 Avinash’s eldest daughter, Sarita, said her father was under stress since the robbery took place and police had started grilling him.
 
 She said cops did not allow Avinash to leave for home when he was called to the Sector 34 police station for questioning on Wednesday.
 
 “He joined the job barely 20 days ago. Before this, he used to work at Industrial Area, Panchkula, but he had to leave that job as his previous employer had gone into losses,” Sarita said.
 
 The family of the deceased also met deputy superintendent of police (south) Deepak Yadav here on Saturday. The family demanded that Chandigarh Police take actions against its cops who pushed Avinash to such an extreme that he committed suicide. The family is expected to now approach Chandigarh senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagadale to seek action.
 
 
 
 
 Ajit Jain, the employer of deceased Avinash Yadav, said there was nothing incriminating against him in the suicide note. “Avinash has not alleged anything against me directly. On January 9, when the robbery took place, Avinash was also held hostage by robbers along with my wife and daughter. Cops questioned him just as much as they questioned me. It’s unfortunate he took such an extreme step. If he was being harassed by cops in such a manner, he could have discussed it with me,” he said.
 
 
