MUMBAI: The Bombay high court is all set to hear the first challenge to the constitutional validity of a law that provides for the death sentence for a second conviction in a rape case. 

 
 Convicts common to both the   gang rape cases and facing death under section 376E of the Indian Penal Code had moved the HC against the provision brought in through criminal law amendments in 2013.
 
 A bench of Justices Bhushan   and B P Colabawalla on Friday fixed the hearing on February 13. They are essentially seeking that the section be read down to affect offences committed subsequent to a rape conviction and serving of sentence, and not when there are two consecutive convictions for offences tried simultaneously or in a parallel manner for crimes committed earlier. The court had appointed Aabad Ponda as an amicus curiae (friend of court) to assist with case.
 
 Yug Chaudhary, counsel for convicts   and others, said a fresh petition would be filed on the legal and constitutional validity since the present petition was filed even before the trial court had sentenced the convicted the three to death in 2014 (see box).
 
 After the court held them guilty and sentenced them to life sentence, special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam sought to invoke section 376E to seek the death sentence on the grounds that conviction in the second case would merit the extreme punishment as 'habitual offenders'. When then trial judge   allowed Nikam's plea, the convicts challenged the order on the grounds that there was "no previous conviction'' as both convictions were pronounced together.
 
 Existence of a previous conviction was "mandatory" when charges were framed in the photojournalist's rape case to attract provisions of "enhanced punishment", said the convicts' petition. Chaudhary also said no deaths were caused, and hence there cannot be a death sentence. At this, Justice Gavai said it would be dealt with during a confirmation of the death sentence, not in a matter where a constitutional challenge is raised. A death sentence awarded by a sessions court is required by law to be confirmed by a high court before it can be executable.
 
 Maharashtra advocate general   said a notice has been issued to the attorney general of India since the amendment was brought by Parliament. 
 
 
