CHANDIGARH: All streets leading to the   Market in Sector 22-C are choked with street vendors and competitive encroachment. 

 If you take these bylanes behind Kiran cinema, you will find the walking space shrinking as you go further and deeper into the  . You hit a thick barricade of street vendors who have covered more than 40% of the footpath for an elaborate display of a variety of items they sell. These street vendors have made these roadsides there permanent commercial zone.
 
 They have now started using the limited space of the narrow road to spread out three or more sheets at once, thus complicating and intensifying an already serious logjam because of the encroachment upon public land. The space being used currently by the street vendors was meant originally for parking vehicles. 
 
 It was to accommodate light motor vehicles and two-wheelers, but the parking can no longer be seen. "Look carefully and you will notice the car parking slots marked on the road. But the parking was rendered useless after the vendors swallowed all the road, putting the customers and the shopkeepers into great inconvenience,"   president   said.
 
 Police have no presence in this area, which has encouraged a culture of eating into any existing public space. Shoppers have stopped parking here generally for the past two years, since it was a formidable challenge for even the shopkeepers. 
 
 "These vendors have created a host of space problems, which seem difficult to tackle. Firstly, they took over the road leading in from the Kiran cinema and then they took the parking lot for two-wheelers. Then they started expanding towards the   road behind the theatre, making the street so narrow that even a car can't pass at times,"   said.
 
 He said that within two years, the vendors had also seized the road outside Rehri Market, which was earlier used for parking cars and deploying food stalls. 
 
 "Of more than 1,800 registered street vendors, roughly the same number are unregistered, who ply their illegal trade in the market. They have left no space for parking or anything at roadsides, corners, or the pavements. We don't know what to do," Fauji said.
 
 Shastri Market, which witnesses a huge footfall, used to have a big parking are for three-wheelers and cars until the streets vendors encroached upon it. They blocked an alternative road for exit. One of the fire safety officials who conducted a fire audit of this area a year ago, warned that "due to the shrinking space for vehicles, a rescue team might not be able to reach the spot in time during a fire emergency".
 
 To keep some place for parking, the road to the Rehri Market was converted into a paid-parking zone about six months ago by the MC, but the constant chaos and vendor activity has not helped the purpose. 
 
 A few vendors accused the Rehri Market shopkeepers of trying to push them out of a place they had kept for more than a decade for selling garments, jewellery, plastic products, toys, footwear, and crockery among other things.
 
 However, the shopkeepers claim they approached the municipal corporation several times before as well and even held candlelight protests and shutdowns, but received no support. 
 
 "The street vendors should all be rehabilitated in Sectors 50, 51, 47, 43, 56, 42, and 41, or given any other place to work from," said shopkeeper Mandeep. 
 
 
