GURUGRAM: As many as 37,400 houses will be made available in the district under the  , according to MCG, which has already prepared the detailed project report (DPR).

 An MCG official told TOI that the corporation received more than a lakh applications seeking the benefits under the scheme, and 28,839 applicants were shortlisted in MCG areas, 1,841 in   areas, 791 in  , 1,412 in Haily Mandi and 4,580 in  .
 
 “An agency called   was appointed for the survey to assess the demand under the national scheme. The survey has been completed, and so is the DPR, which will be submitted to the state government within this month,” said an MCG official.
 
 The DPR will be then sent to the Centre for its approval, which is expected by March. Government agencies such as Huda, MCG and HSIIDC will work together on the project, identity land and build houses.
 
 A construction company will be appointed and the housing board will overlook the process of construction, the official said. These houses will be provided in various manners such as beneficiary-led house construction, credit link subsidy (CLS), affordable housing in partnership ( ) and in-situ slum rehabilitation.
 
 While in AHP, the constructed houses will be provided to beneficiaries by the state government. In this, the government will pay subsidy up to Rs. 2.50 lakh. In CLS, the beneficiaries will be able to avail credit at subsidised interest rates.
 
 To be able to apply for the benefits under the central scheme, one has to be a resident of the district, should not be a taxpayer and should not have more than one property in Gurugram.
 
 The land for the houses that will be made under AHP, however, has not yet been finalised. The government agencies are still weighing their options in this regard. In the beneficiary-led house construction, if the applicant has own land, the government will provide Rs 2.50 lakh subsidy for building the house at his property. 
 
 The official said if someone is under the below poverty line (BPL) category and has a house in Gurugram, he or she can avail loan at low interest rates. A loan of up to Rs 6 lakh will be given at 2.5 %, an amount between Rs 6 and 9 lakh will be given at 5% and 6% interest will be charged for a loan of Rs 9-12.
 
 
 
