MUMBAI: All the three games that   have played in the 11th edition of the   this far have been last over thrillers. Unfortunately for the three-time champions, the nerves seem to be getting the better of them as they have ended up losing all the three matches in almost similar fashion. The script was similar for the Rohit Sharma-led team, when it managed to put together a competitive 194 on the board at the Wankhede Stadium after being sent in.

 
 But Delhi’s batsmen — opener   (91*),   (47) and Shreyas Iyer (27*) — responded to the call of duty with aplomb and ensured the Daredevils walked away with a much-needed seven-wicket win. Needing 11 runs in the last over bowled by Mustafizur Rahman, Roy struck a four and six off the first two deliveries but missed the next three deliveries, thus giving the Delhi dugout a few anxious moments. However, the England opener lofted the last ball of the over to take his team home.
 
 The two opening loses made Mumbai tweak their playing XI and also their batting order. Captain Rohit Sharma dropped himself to No 4 and instead promoted   to the opener’s slot. Yadav (53) and West Indian Ewin Lewis (48) gave the hosts a blazing start — Mumbai had scored 102 in the first nine overs — but the Delhi pacers did well thereafter to restrict the home team to 194. Delhi, coming in on the back of two defeats, replaced Colin Munro with Roy and the move proved to be beneficial for new skipper  .
 
 The debutant Roy, who was later named man of the match for his 59-ball 91, championed Delhi’s chase to perfection. Opening the innings with Gambhir, Roy looked absolutely composed as he toyed with the field. The 27-year-old cleared the field six times and struck as many boundaries to flatten the Mumbai attack.
 
 Roy found an able ally in Pant as the duo put on 69 runs for the second wicket. But by the time Pant was out, he had scored a precious 25-ball 47. The left-hander took a liking for leg-spinners Mayank Markande and Akila Dananjaya, sweeping and slogging them at will. His breezy stay allowed Roy to take the back seat for a while. Shreyas Iyer played some excellent cricketing shots and eventually remained unbeaten on 27.
 
 Earlier, Mumbai looked poised for a sizeable total only to lose their way in the last five overs of the innings. Playing their second home game, Yadav and Lewis got Mumbai off to a flyer. Wicketkeeper Ishan Kishan struck a 23-ball 44. There weren’t much contributions from the others as Delhi’s pacers bowled cleverly to outfox the Mumbai big-hitters at the death. The hosts lost six wickets for 28 runs with Kieron Pollard falling for a duck.
 
 “We were expecting around 220 but the bowlers restricted them well in the middle and we really bowled well in patches. The comeback was amazing by the bowlers and hopefully we continue doing the same things,” Iyer said after the match.
 
 
