KANNUR: Two teams of sculptors below the age of 18 years are on a unique mission as part of Bekal ‘Art Walk’ project by Bekal Resorts Development Corporation ( ) in  .

 
 The teams led by 14-year-old MV Chitraraj and 13-year-old KM Revathy have already started the work of their sculptures in the Bekal Beach Park, said T K Mansoor, managing director, BRDC.
 
 “The little sculptors got this opportunity as part of the ‘Art walk’ project of BRDC being implemented at Bekal Beach, and this innovative concept is focused to promote cultural tourism and attract tourists to the destination,” he added.
 
 The 400-meter stretch Art Walk will have hundreds of paintings and sculptures from various segments of international as well as native artists. The artists would have unique opportunity to find a place for their works in the Art Walk and attract tourists from all over the world, he said.
 
 The upper age limit of the student contestants for sculpting was 18 years and 12 students applied for the opportunity. The selection was made by a committee consisting of noted art historian KK Marar and TG Jyothilal, former head of the fine arts faculty of Sree Sankaracharya University, Kaladi. Each team head has seven students including the leader.
 
 A child below the age 18 making a sculpture with a height of 10 feet is something unique, said Marar.
 
 Taught only in the colleges of fine arts, sculpting is not a subject for learning at the schools or colleges of Kerala, but the Art Walk project would enhance the knowledge on contemporary art and developing a new visual culture, said Jyothilal.
 
 Chitraraj, who is an SSLC student in Cheruvathoor Technical Government High School, was honored with the talent search award of the Government of India in 2014-15 and he was the only child sculptor selected for the National Culture Festival 2018.
 
 Revathi, who is a 9th standard student of KMVHSS, Kodakkad, Kasaragod, is one of the five students of India who got Bharat Sarkar Talent Search Award in 2016-17.
 
 Chitraraj aims to make a 15ft sculpture and Revathi a 10ft one. The idea is to complete both the sculptures within one month, said BRDC authorities.
 
