NEW DELHI: A 28-year-old man was dragged out of a   and stabbed to death in full public view by a gang of   who were fleeing with his brother’s phone near the   on Sunday evening. The victim’s wife despite being injured and seeing her husband lying in a pool of blood chased the criminals for over 200 metres and caught hold of two of them.

 
  
  
 The woman will be rewarded for showing exemplary courage in catching two of the criminals — Suraj (20) and Sumit (25) — who led cops to the third pickpocket, Ajit (24), who was also arrested within a couple of hours, DCP (New Delhi) Madhur Verma said.
 
 The victim, Amarjeet, had gone for Dilli Darshan on Sunday with four family members, including his wife Manju and younger brother Sandeep. Raj Kumar, Amarjeet’s brother-in-law, was also asked to join them on the trip, but he backed out at the last moment due to some work.
 
 Kumar told TOI, “Manju is in a state of shock and unable to speak much. Last night, she managed to talk a little and said that this was Sandeep’s first trip to Delhi and he had asked them to show him around the city. They first went to India Gate and then to a few other monuments before finally stopping at the zoo. After spending around an hour there, they moved towards the bus stand nearby and boarded a bus to go to   in outer Delhi.”
 
 “Since there were no vacant seats, they were standing in the bus. They had barely travelled a short distance when Amarjeet noticed two men pulling out Sandeep’s phone from his back pocket. When he raised an alarm, the pickpockets jumped off the bus,” Kumar added.
 
 When Manju tried to catch hold of the men, she was attacked with a knife on her hand. Seeing his wife bleeding, Amarjeet rushed to her rescue. However, Ajit, who was the last one to get off the bus, dragged him out and stabbed him.
 
 The bus had stopped by this time, but no one offered to help the family. Manju chased Sumit and Suraj into a narrow lane and caught hold of them. While she was slapping and kicking them, a few people stopped to help her. Two cops patrolling the area also rushed there and caught hold of Sumit and Suraj.
 
 A PCR call was made around 5.30pm after which a team reached there and took the two pickpockets to jail. They gave the cops Ajit’s hideout and he was subsequently arrested. Amarjeet and Manju got married five years ago and have a three-year-old son. His body was handed over to the family after autopsy on Monday morning.
 
 
