MADURAI: The eight-year-old struggle by a mother to get justice for her son has finally fructified with the   bench of the Madras high ordering   to him. The boy,  , had lost his right eyesight when one of the students in school pelted him with a stone during a special coaching class in 2010.

 On Wednesday, the court passed the order on Kanyakumari-based woman’s petition filed in 2013 awarding Rs 25 lakh compensation to Fedlin.
 
 The state’s education secretary, Kanyakumari’s chief education officer and district educational officer and correspondent and headmaster of   higher secondary school have to give the money to him within four weeks from the receipt of court order copy, according to the order.
 
 The judge said, “When parents leave their children in school, the children are in the custody of the school authorities. The school authorities are required to take such care of the children, as would be taken by a careful and prudent parent. The school authorities owe a duty to provide adequate security to the children to prevent chances of injury to them. In the instant case, that duty has not been performed by the authorities.”
 
 Pulling up the state government, the judge said, “The state failed to take any action against the management even after the incident. Being the recognising authority, the state ought to have taken action against the concerned. In such a view, the respondents (the officials and the school correspondent and headmaster) are liable to pay the compensation.”
 
 The judge also said that the money was not an adequate compensation for loss suffered by the petitioner’s son, who was studying Class 9 during the relevant period of time. “However, the compensation can help provide a sense of justice and security, especially so when dealing with medical bills, consultation costs and other financial burdens. When a child has to miss school for medical treatment or emotional distress, the trauma the parents are put through can’t be quantified in terms of money. Compensation will provide comfort of being able to care during the child’s recovery. Pain and suffering is also another category for which a settlement could be awarded,” the judge said.
 
 In arguments, the government said that despite specific instructions not to conduct any extra classes or other special classes during vacation period, the school conducted some classes and the students jointed it on their own interest. Thus, the government was not responsible for the loss suffered by the petitioner’s son.
 
 
