NEW DELHI: In a bid to cover his  , the   who   the CBSE   sent it to a relative in Chandigarh for  .  , the commerce and economics teacher of DAV Public School in Una, also avoided circulating the photographs of the questionnaire, taking care to have it written down to avoid detection of the leak source. 

 “Tracking the Whatsapp group chain where people were communicating individually as well as on the group was the biggest challenge for us,” disclosed R P Upadhyay, special commissioner (crime) on Saturday. During interrogation, Kumar told the cops that on November 23, he went to the Union Bank of India where the paper was stored and sought permission from the manager to collect the computer science exam papers. He had asked school clerk Amit Sharma and peon Ashok to accompany him to help him carry the papers.
 
 While retrieving the computer science question paper, Kumar slipped out a bundle containing the economics question paper. He asked Sharma and Ashok to return to the school with the   while he headed for the exam centre at the Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, 14 km from DAV School.
 
 He called Amit and asked him to take out the economics paper, a sheet at time, through a slit on the envelope containing the question paper and to photograph them. He later called a girl student from Unnao and asked her to write down the questions as he dictated them. He then photographed the handwritten sheets and fowarded them to his relative in Chandigarh. He also made the girl solve the question paper in his presence.
 
 Police officers said Kumar cleverly avoided using the photographs of the original paper because they would show the unique code number of the exam centre for which the paper was destined, thus identifying the source of the leak. “Having worked as an exam coordinator earlier, Kumar was aware of the CBSE’s processes,” said a police officer.
 
 Cops suspect that Sharma or Ashok forwarded the paper to someone and it ultimately made its way to the module operating in Delhi. The possibility of a connection between the Delhi and Himachal Pradesh groups is being probed.
 
 
