BHOPAL: On the concluding day of the three-day international workshop on nutrition literacy on Wednesday, women and child development department has decided to initiate a proposal on including nutrition literacy in state board and central board of school education ( ) curriculum. Women and child development minister Archana   announced to get the all the recommendations given by the experts approved by the state and central governments.

 
 “This is one of the important suggestions that has come up from experts that food and nutrition literacy should be made a mandatory part of school curriculum,” Chitnis said. She said that the department would soon write to CBSE and MP board of secondary education about the same. The other outcomes of the event included knowledge enhancement and maximization of the impact of food and agricultural systems by creating and promoting relevant databases, critical reports and identification, besides addressing knowledge gaps.
 
 The minister said that efficient food and agricultural system governance for nutrition and improved nutrition literacy is what the department is expecting.
 
 Besides, strengthening of capacity for formulation and implementation of policies and programmes towards improving nutritional status and development of road maps/action plan to strengthen nutrition sensitive agriculture. The suggestions made by experts during technical sessions at the workshop includes innovative practices to promote nutrition-sensitive agriculture and food security, enabling suitable governance and policy, addressing value chain and village trade-related issues and improving maternal and child nutrition.
 
 Chitnis said the department will initiate strategies to improve complementary food and feeding, focus on agriculture, focus on backyard for strengthening household nutrition security and promotion of animal wealth (goat), as it serves as rural ATM for food source during distress.
 
 Regarding nutrition management, Chitnis said that the department needs to encourage analysis of local food systems and food value chain for effective nutritional interventions.
 
 “We will be streamlining supply chain issues, invest on development of bio-fortified crops, promote bio-fortified rice, wheat and maize and need to bring a strategic policy for caring child during first 1000 days,” she added.
 
