CHENNAI: The   government on Friday increased bus fares for state-run transport corporations and private firms by a maximum of almost 67% - the largest rise in the cheapest ticket for a ride on a   vehicle in Chennai - catching commuters off guard with a large hike after more than six years.

 The last time the state increased bus fares was on November 18, 2011, when diesel cost 43.10/litre, against the current price of 65.83/litre. The increase comes into effect from Saturday.
 
 The state transport department, in a statement on Friday night, said the minimum fare for ordinary-service   buses is now 5, up from the earlier 3, and the maximum is 23, up from 14.
 
  
  
 
 The government had set the minimum hike at 20%, the department said. However, passengers will also have to pay more for toll charges and accident claim settlements, under a revised state policy on bus tickets, it said. In non-metros, tickets would range between 3 and 19.
 
 According to a revised fare slab released by the government, fares for mofussil services are now higher by nearly a third. The statement made no mention of MTC express or deluxe bus services.
 
 The government attributed the decision to increase fares in view of cost of fuel, spare parts and maintenance, besides wages for employees of the various debt-ridden state transport corporations.
 
 The transport department tried to justify the hike by comparing the situation in neighbouring states. Even after revision, bus fares in Tamil Nadu are lower than those in   and   which have made eight increases in the past 16 years, the statement said.
 
 Porur resident and regular MTC bus user D Venkateshwaran voiced the general dismay among regular commuters, saying the government could have increased fares incrementally. 
 
 
 
 
 “Instead of increasing ticket prices by more than two-thirds at one go, the government could have increased fares gradually over the years as in Kerala and  ,” he said.
 
 “Now that it has increased fares sharply, the government should soon be able to create additional infrastructure and make travel safer and more comfortable,” he said, adding, however, that nothing had changed since 2011, when the state last hiked the fares, and that he did not expect better services now.
 
 Union leaders criticised the government, saying it should not look “to run the transport corporations with a for-profit mentality”.
 
 “Nearly two crore people in the state use buses because the fares are low,” said K Arumugam Nainar from of Transport Employees Federation, which is affiliated to CITU. “The [hike] will result in an increase in the number of private vehicles and a corresponding rise in traffic congestion and pollution.”
 
 “The hike was unnecessary as the shortage is only around ₹3,000 crore and it can be easily compensated through budgetary allocations,” he said. “Tamil Nadu’s annual budget is nearly ₹1.50 lakh crore.”
 
 The eight state-run transport corporations have accumulated losses of ₹20,488 crore and admitted that they were unable to clear dues of transport workers, resulting in a state-wide protest earlier this month.
 
 With more than 75% of all government buses being overage, the corporations lose ₹9 crore on a daily basis and subsidies the government provides [worth ₹12,059 crore] to compensate for the additional cost is insufficient, the department statement said.
 
 To overcome this, the government had decided to revise the fares with immediate effect, the department said, referring to a Madras high court direction recommending an increase.
 
 Passengers have to pay more because the government has allowed transport corporations to restore collection of toll plaza fees from passengers, the department said. Toll charges did not earlier reflect on the fare.
 
 Besides this, money would be collected from passengers towards accident settlement claims. As per the revised fare slab, between ₹1 and ₹10 be collected from passengers depending on the travel distance.
 
 Amount collected would be used to create a new corpus fund, the department said. Various courts have impounded 652 government buses for not paying accident settlement claims.
 
 
