The   presented by finance minister   has provided two direct sops for creation of jobs. It has corrected an anomaly in the income-tax (I-T) Act, which hindered   from claiming tax benefits for new employment, and announced that for the first three years, the government will bear the employer’s share of contribution to the employee provident fund.

 Section 80JJAA enables India Inc to claim a benefit of 30% of the additional employee cost for three years, including the year in which the new employment is generated. This benefit can be claimed by companies having a turnover of more than Rs1 crore.
 
 But some stringent conditions created a stumbling block. An individual employed for less than 240 days in the first year was not treated as an additional (or new) employee. Thus, if an employee had worked for less than 240 days in the first year but worked throughout the year over the next two years, the company could still not claim the benefit of this deduction in any of the three years.
 
 So, companies wanting to claim the benefit of this deduction were reluctant to hire post July in any given year as the new employee would not meet the requisite number of 240 days of employment.
 
 The Budget has clarified that benefits of this section will be available in case of new employees, who are employed for less than the minimum number of days in year one but remain employed for the minimum number of days in the second year.
 
 However, there has been no change in the other condition, that the salary of the new employees should be less than Rs 25,000 per month. “For the service sector, it means that they will largely be unable to take the benefit of this deduction,” said the CFO of a software company.
 
 Another boost has been provided for job creation, as the government will contribute 12% of the wages of new employees across all sectors, towards EPF. This contribution will not have to be made by the employer. The benefit will be available for the next three years. The fine print on this will be available when a specified scheme to this effect is rolled out.
 
 With the government facing questions on the job front, creating employment was a theme that ran through the Budget, ranging from reduction of corporate tax to the promise to spend Rs 14 lakh crore on rural infrastructure and livelihoods. The proposed rural spend on 3.17 lakh km of roads, 51 lakh new houses, 1.88 crore toilets and 1.75 crore new household electric connections are expected to translate into employment as well.
 
