KOCHI: Kerala will be forced to announce cuts in revenue expenditure in the next budget with the expected flow of revenue from the GST not happening, sources in the   department said. 

 However, the ministry will increase its capital expenditure or those expenses productive to economy, reports Shenoy Karun. 
 
 Finance minister   is also reportedly under pressure to bring down the revenue deficit as the government is borrowing outside the budget through special purpose vehicles like KIIFB, the ratings of which are based on the financial stature of the state. 
 
 
 
 
 With the expected flow of revenue from GST not coming forth, Kerala will be forced to declare revenue expenditure cuts in the next budget, finance ministry sources said. However, the ministry will be increasing the capital expenditure (spendings which are productive to the economy), simultaneously.
 
 “For the past five years, the revenue had been growing by 10% and expenditure by 15%. If this goes on for another five years, the state will be in trouble,” said the source.
 
 Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac is under pressure to bring down revenue deficits as the government is borrowing outside the budget through special purpose vehicles like Kerala Infrastructure investment Fund Board (KIIFB), the ratings of which are based on the  . “If the revenue doesn’t grow, then expenditure will be cut. KIIFB is taking loans to the tune of Rs 50,000 crore and hence we can’t have an anarchy here in the budget and there will be clear evidence of fiscal consolidation in it,” the source said.
 
 In the future, KIIFB will be involved only in projects the state urgently needs.
 
 While pruning spending, the government will exclude spendings aimed at the poor and also on  , the last two together being 53% of last budget’s revenue expenditure.
 
 The government will also continue spending on healthcare and education, two priority areas, with the hiring of roughly 4,000 teachers and more doctors and nurses.
 
 Meanwhile, with the potential of VAT (value added tax) being exhausted, it will be difficult to grow the tax component of state’s revenue.
 
 Also, the tax collection has gone down significantly in Kerala despite GST introduction. “Previously, we had been imposing 14.5% rate on 80% of the commodities. Now barely 20% of them could be taxed at 14%,” the source said.
 
 With the GST only likely to be fully implemented in March, Isaac’s initial optimism regarding the system has also faded. “He had expected a tax revenue dip in the first year, but with the second year estimates also being negative, he might go for revenue expenditure cuts,” a source said.
 
 Kerala will now be keeping its fiscal deficit at 3% of the   (GSDP). What forced this is the Union government’s policy of limiting the state’s borrowings if it goes beyond that limit. (During FY17, the deficit was 3.53% of the GSDP).
 
 There will also be attempts to increase the state’s non-tax revenue in the next budget. Being mooted is an increase of the various fees collected by the revenue department and also government educational and healthcare institutions.
 
