BELAGAVI: The   strategy to have a compromise with the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti ( ) in Marathi-speaking dominated assembly constituencies of Belagavi district is the hot topic of discussion here.

 According to reliable sources in the BJP, the party doesn’t want to give   the advantage due to a division of Hindu votes. The Congress is giving tough competition in  , South and Rural assembly constituencies and in Khanapur constituency.
 
 The saffron flag is common to BJP and MES which they use during elections and other occasions. Even during parliamentary elections, traditionally, the MES backs BJP by not fielding its candidates in Belagavi constituency. 
 
 Due to it, the BJP wants to frame a win-win strategy for BJP and MES. At the same time, the party is taking care the deal should not dent the party statewide because the MES has been branded as an anti-state organisation. The party doesn’t want it in the public domain.
 
 Efforts have been expedited to ensure a compromise in Belagavi North and South constituencies since the BJP has taken Belagavi North constituency which is represented by   for the past 10 years. Firebrand leader and Union minister Anant Kumar Hegde has been given charge of this constituency.
 
 The BJP raised the issues of cow slaughter and illegal cold storage units at a major meeting recently. The Union women and child development minister Maneka Gandhi inspected the illegal cold storage units. The party also raised the issue of illegal Bangadeshi immigrants in Belagavi City. The BJP desperately wants to win in Belagavi (North) but it feels it’s a tough job without the help of the MES.
 
 Sources said the BJP leadership has gone to the extent of sacrificing any constituency for MES to win Belagavi (North). Talks are on with the MES about this for over a month. 
 
 However, MES has not given a firm assurance so far. After the visit of NCP chief Sharad Pawar to Belagavi last week and putting the onus on leaders to win more MES seats to strengthen its claim over Belagavi and border area in the supreme court, MES leaders are treading delicately. The MES is showing no hurry in deciding on the BJP proposal.
 
 
