KOCHI: The Spanish flavour is working for  . Goals from two Spaniards, Ferran Corominas (7') and Eduardo Bedia (77') helped them edge past   2-1 in an   match here at Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium on Sunday night. For Blasters, CK Vineeth (29') scored but Goa had a bit more quality when it mattered and with this win, their sixth, they rose to 19 points and equalled FC Pune City's tally but stayed fourth in the table. Blasters, meanwhile, suffered their fourth defeat of the season, second at home, and the home ground no longer seems to be a fortress for them. 

 
 Goa fired a warning shot through Manuel Lanzarote. The midfielder got hold of the ball after Vineeth was dispossessed at the centre of the park in the third minute. He saw goalkeeper Paul Rachubka off his line and went for the chip that hit the bar, much to the relief of Blasters. 
 
 However, that relief did not last long as Goa went ahead four minutes later. Brandon Fernandez found Mandar Dessai free on the right and found him with a defence-splitting pass. Dessai squared it for the onrushing Corominas who, despite his mini goal drought of late, did not hurry and even as the Blasters defenders were getting back into position. He picked the bottom left corner and calmly slotted in to give Goa 1-0 lead. Corominas, after a stellar start to the season, had scored just one goal in his last four matches and this, his 10th of the season once again put him as the sole leader of the goal charts ahead of Miku of Bengaluru FC. 
 
 The equaliser was a result of some sloppy defending by Goa. Wes Brown's headed clearance of a Goa goal-kick was latched on to by Siam Hangal who was replacing Keziron Kizito. Hangal found Vineeth who has been lurking in and around the Goa penalty area right from the start with a quick release. Vineeth caught the Goa centrebacks napping and he slightly opened up his body to put the ball past the advancing Goa goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani into the back of the net to restore parity. For Vineeth, this was his third goal of the campaign. 
 
 The game saw some heated exchanges towards the end of the first-half after a late challenge by Milan Singh on Corominas. Meanwhile, Rino Anto, plagued by injuries, picked up another knock and had to be stretchered off. Nemanja Lakic-Pesic came on for him and joined Jhignan in the middle of the defence as Wes Brown was moved to the right. 
 
 Blasters came out with more intent in the second half and were denied what looked like a fifty-fifty penalty shout just after the hour-mark. Hume released Vineeth who by then had been playing as a lone-striker and the Kerala man tried to get the ball back onto his right foot inside the box. In the process, he made contact with the leg of Mohamed Ali and fell down. Since the defender was not trying to bring Vineeth down, the referee did not award a penalty even as the Blasters bench erupted in protest. 
 
 The second Goal goal came out of nowhere. Brandon Fernandes whipped in a regulation corner from the left and Edu Badia, unmarked, was the first to react and his glancing header across Rachubka towards the far corner took Goa ahead again and deflated the Blasters.
 
