CHENNAI: The state government has proposed a bailout plan for  , a   established over 370 acres of land at   in   district by cardiac surgeon Dr K M Cherian. The state-owned Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corporation (TIDCO) and   will pump in a minimum of Rs 25 crore each, which will later be converted into equity, towards a one-time settlement (OTS) to banks, which have claimed dues of Rs 156 crore.

 Additional chief secretary K Shanmugam has instructed the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation, a nodal agency that coordinates implementation of infrastructure projects in the state, to negotiate with banks and prepare a business model for the science park. 
 
 “Banks have invoked powers of legislation to seek liquidation of Frontier Mediville through the  . We worked out a meltdown value of the project and are basing our plans on that. We believe that if the government tells the banks we are interested in the project, the banks may not move ahead with the winding up proceedings,” said a senior finance department official.
 
 It has been estimated that the OTS could come to Rs 50 crore. However, any variation in the final negotiated settlement with the banks will be borne equally by the state medical university and TIDCO, he added.
 
 In September 2016, Dr Cherian requested the state to consider Frontier Mediville as the medicity project envisaged by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. “Instead of planning something from scratch, it would be good to go with an existing project. But we understand there are a lot of legal tangles and takeover may not be easy,” said Shanmugam.
 
 The General Framework Agreement – a preliminary agreement to show intent to invest by the government and to facilitate undertaking detailed due diligence – was then drafted, as proposed in the government order issued in July 2017. A copy of the agreement and the order is available with ToI.
 
 On March 14, a discussion meeting in the presence of senior officials from the departments of urban development, finance, TIDCO, state medical university and Frontier Lifeline was held to identify financial partners for investment. 
 
 “It is important for the government to save this research park because we are not getting adequate help from the banks. We have several ongoing research studies including one on bio-prosthetic valve and artificial heart that can bring down costs of treatment. It would be a Made in India project as well,” said Dr Cherian.
 
 
