AHMEDABAD: The   (ESI), tabled on Monday ahead of the  , states that in the coming year, climate change “could” reduce annual   by 20% to 25% for   in the country. Gujarat will face a huge challenge, as nearly 53% of its cropped area, roughly 67.6 lakh hectares of its  , is not irrigated.

 The Economic Survey states that the impact of climate change is significantly more adverse in unirrigated areas (for rain-fed crops) compared to irrigated areas (where cereals are grown). Gujarat Agriculture University experts echo similar feeling and say that this is why farmers are moving to less water intensive crops. Especially for the winter and summer crops.
 
 “We also estimate that farmer incomes are likely to drop by 20% in the next three to five years. Farmer income is falling because of various reasons, which include poor quality of the crop. However, excessive rains and better yields which have produced bumper crops have also led to reduced incomes. This is why farmers are demanding minimum support prices,” said the GAU professor.
 
 R L Siyani, an agriculture economist, says, “The government talks of average income, however, climate change may affect marginal farmers more in unirrigated area. Big and medium farmers, because of diversified crops, are not affected, but marginal farmers are the worst hit. Whenever the government forms a policy, they have to form it based on marginal farmers.”
 
 Agriculture minister RC Faldu was not available for comment.
 
 The state, according to agriculture data, has a total cropped area of 1.27 crore hectares. Of this, 60.14 lakh hectares is irrigated and around 53%, that is 67.59 lakh hectares, is unirrigated.
 
 The official data reveals that of the 60.14 lakh hectares of irrigated land, only 9.13 lakh hectares is canal irrigated. The remainder is irrigated through wells and other sources. The main crops in irrigated areas are groundnut, sesame, rapeseed and mustard, linseed, soyabean, sunflower, cotton among others.
 
 The survey further says temperature increases have been particularly strong in the North-East, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Rajasthan and Gujarat. The survey reveals that temperature change will reduce groundnut and other crop yields by 4%. Gujarat account for 41% of the country’s groundnut production. Similarly, the change in rain pattern will bring down the yield of groundnut by around 14%.
 
 The survey further reveals that farmers are not diversifying their crops. The survey found that there was a decline in crop of diversification compared to the previous years.
 
 The survey further states that the Crops Diversification Programme is being implemented by the government in the original Green Revolution areas — Punjab, Haryana and Western UP — to move paddy growing areas to less water intensive crops like oilseeds, pulses, coarse cereals, agro-forestry. Tobacco farmers are also moving to alternative crops in states like Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal.
 
 
