With the   around the corner, liquor stores and outlets in the state will be shut from Thursday, may 10, 5 pm till Saturday, May 12 to keep any untoward incidents at bay. This has, of course, got the people in the city worried about their weekend plans and procuring alcohol for the same. But liquor store staff say that this season, surprisingly, has seen lower consumption of alcohol.
“One of the biggest reasons is the cap on buying liquor bottles per person. This has led to only a few people buying them for their personal consumption. The restrictions due to the elections, coupled with the fact that it is summer and holiday season, has led to people travelling out of the city,” says a representative of   on St Mark’s Road.
 Others, too, agree that there has been a fall in liquor sales due to these restrictions. A representative at MSIL Liquor Outlet, Lavelle Road, says, “People have taken these restrictions seriously, but that doesn’t mean they are following them. Some of them are trying to work their way around by demanding individual bills for each bottle, so that it looks like different people have purchased the same. Election time does see people panicking and storing liquor, and we are gradually seeing the same.”
 A representative from the   chain tells us that panic buying happens a little later. “We expect people rushing to procure and stock liquor only on the eve of the dry day or in the morning. While they know that there will be a dry spell, they do not act on it until the last moment,” he says.
 KS Shivayya, Deputy Director (Stats),  , says, “This time of the year, so far, has seen sales equal to that of the last year. There hasn’t been increased demand from liquor stores either." 
 
 
 With the restriction imposed on liquor sales for individuals, purchasing and ferrying liquor is easier said than done. Individuals are allowed only one or two bottles, depending on the kind of liquor. Vigil officers are stationed at multiple spots across the city to check on people carrying more than they are allowed in their cars.
 
 
 
