Jaipur: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation ( ) employees were witnessed engaging in verbal spat with the home guards, a day after city mayor Ashok Lahoti introduced a new system to check absenteeism. 

 The dispute erupted when home guards deployed at the entry gate did not allow vehicles of JMC employees without passes to enter into the headquarters. Protesting against the new system, employees also raised slogans against the city mayor and demanded to rollback his decision. 
 
 Earlier, after the entry for general public was banned by city mayor at JMC headquarters till 3 pm, the vehicle passes to JMC employees were issued. Annoyed by absenteeism, Lahoti on Monday issued directions that no JMC employee can leave headquarters without taking permission from the department head. Directions were also given to record the vehicle number in register whenever an employee enters or leaves the premises. 
 
 On Tuesday, when employees were restrained from entering inside the JMC buildings, the arguments with home guards became a common sight throughout the day.
 
 Gokul Devi, union leader said, “The new system is implemented unnecessarily to harass the employees. It is strange people who are working at JMC for years are not allowed to enter inside without passes,” Devi said.
 
 On Monday, mayor also issued directions before leaving the headquarters, the employees will have to show the slip at the entry gate which would be signed by the head. The guard will maintain a record and note the timing of the employee when they would re-enter the headquarters again. 
 
 The directions were issued as majority of employees are away from their seats and do not come to office after lunch break. Also, many remain absent claiming that they are on field duty. 
 
 Though the directions have been issued by the mayor, many employees questioned about the feasibility.
 
 A JMC official source said, “There are two-three gates to enter the JMC building. It would be difficult to check the movement. Also, at the entry gate, there are home guards deployed, it would be difficult for them to ask the officials of senior rank to follow the new rules.”
 
 Sources said, the new system will hamper the functioning of the employees. “If head of the department is busy or absent, it would cause delay if employees want to go on a field visit. The new system will unnecessary waste the time of employees.” 
 
 
