DURBAN:   is considered one of the greatest cricketer to have played the game. He spoke to Mirror on the current series, the evolution of  , whom he has seen from a young at the RCB team. Excerpts from the interview...

 
 
 
 It's been some time since I left cricket though not totally out of it. I am coaching teams (KKR) in the IPL and the CPL and so I'm certainly not missing being in action, not at all.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I've not followed the series closely, I've been busy with my business trips. But look, South Africa in South Africa were always going to be very difficult to beat. And one area where India need to improve is playing well outside of the sub-continent. I think they are going in the right direction.
 
 
 
 He has progressed magnificently and that was one of the benefits of the IPL. A lot of Indian youngsters get to play with big and world class players and are benefiting from that too. In the case of Virat Kohli, the IPL may not be the only reason for his development but the development may have happened faster for him. That is great to see, a youngster's evolution.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The records show for themselves. He has obviously got the record to prove that at home. But yes, he is the one who looks capable of playing away from home pretty decently.
 
 
 
 I think he is responding to the job pretty well. Obviously he is still learning but the captaincy is about getting the best out of the team. If you can get the team to play for you, that's half the battle won.
 
 
 
 They will be playing on wickets that bounce a lot more than what they are used to back home. It's an area they need to work on. They need to play on similar wickets at home as well and keep the same group of players. It will not be a bad idea if they can have some bouncy wickets for the IPL. It is difficult to have such wickets everywhere but it will not be a bad idea. Mumbai Indians and Kings XI Punjab play in grounds where there is carry and bounce.
 
 
 
 I don't think good all-rounders come too often. The fact that so much amount of cricket is being played these days is not helping the cause of the all-rounders.
 
 
 
 He seems to have the talent to become a good all-rounder. He is still young and he could learn a lot. I think he could carry on learning. He could become a really world class all-rounder. But you got to give the guys time to find their feet at the international level and get comfortable. Once he gets comfortable at that level, then that should really start moving along as a batter, as a bowler or in his case as an all-rounder.
 
 
 
 I think it is partly because you don't have many slip fielders in the sub-continent. The wickets don't carry. You are not going to have three or four slip fielders in India too often. It's a matter of putting in time, practice and right technique. There are certain techniques to catching at slips which you have to work on and you have to have the skill. It doesn't come overnight as it takes a lot of hard work. You need to work with guys that know how to catch in conditions and make your technique right. If you are not awake at slip and expect every ball, you are not certainly not going to catch them.
 
 
 
 I want to spend time at home with the family. Also, I am looking after my business right now, spending a little bit of time in the IPL and the Caribbean Premier League. But look, I am not saying no to international coaching in future.
 
 
