HYDERABAD: Joining hands with their counterparts from across the country, parents in the city will take part in a nation-wide protest on Saturday, to demand that the Centre bring in a single and strong central fee and education quality regulation act that schools will need to abide by. 

 They said that instead of various 'vague' acts at the state-level, the Centre should intervene and solve all issues related to education. "The state has failed us time and again and we feel that the state is unable to handle the fee hike issue. So, we want the Centre to react and bring in a single act regulating the fee in private schools," said   of Hyderabad School Parent's Associations (HSPA), adding that the Centre should not wash its hand off the matter, terming it as a state subject.
 
 She added: "Education cannot be a state subject. When a state is getting funds from the Centre, why should they not intervene and solve our problems? When the chief minister is unable to put things together, there should be someone at the Central level who can handle these issues."
 
  
 
 The parents, who will be protesting under the   banner, said that apart from the regulation of fee, the government should also make sure and implement all existing legislations like Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC), Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO ), Juvenile Justice (JJ act), Child safety guidelines in schools and buses. HSPA members said they received about 400 emails from parents across India on various issues related to schools, which would be compiled and shared with the officials.
 
 While parents in New Delhi will meet Union Human Resources Development Minister,  , to submit a representation with their demands, parents in Hyderabad said they will meet officials from education department, probably during the next week. 
 
 Strict implementation of Right to Education Act, no corporal punishment, linking of schools to the Police Control Room, printing Aadhaar number of a student on their ID card are some of their other demands.
 
 
