Jaipur: The Rajasthan Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has recovered documents with details of commission and bribes paid to scores of government officials posted across departments during an extensive search at the office of Kamaljeet Ranawat who was arrested on May 10 in connection with Rs 18 crore Anganwadi tender fraud case.

 At least 39 rubber stamps of several government departments, sarpanchs and banks were also recovered. “There were many blank letter pads of different gram panchayats with signatures and stamps of saprnachs,” an official said.
 
 The ACB sleuths also recovered printed documents with names of lower-rung officials and details of commission, bribes or other services given and received from them. These meticulously prepared documents also contain the names and designations of the officials who were beneficiaries of Ranawat.
 
 The ACB had arrested two middle-men CK Joshi and Ranawat for their alleged involvement in manipulating the tender of Rs 18 crore for buying floor desks by the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) that were to be used for anganwadis.
 
 “We have found during the searches that about Rs 20.5 crore tender was signed by one Shankar Lal Sharma who worked at Ranawat’s office and was paid Rs 20,000 a month,” said an official.
 
 The ACB said that they have also found documents pertaining to the PG medical students, property documents, details about the tender for madrassa board’s duel desks etc. 
 
 “These documents indicate the extent of Ranawat’s influence in multiple departments. The new evidences are being freshly investigated,” said an official. The ACB sleuths have found that Ranawat was constructing a house in Vaishali Nagar at the cost of over Rs 7 crore. “He has a fleet of luxury and expansive cars,” the officials said.
 
 When asked about why Ranawat kept these blank letter pads and rubber stamps, the ACB sources said that the accused may have been using them for his fraudulent purposes.
 
 Joshi threatened officials: The ACB has found that another middleman CK Joshi had once threatened an engineer of a power company by warning him about an impending ACB action. “Joshi was a cheater of top order. He told an engineer that a senior ACB official was keeping an eye on his activities,” the official said. The sources said that Joshi had duped many people by instilling fear of ACB.
 
 
