Thiruvananthapuram: For more than 50 woman entrepreneurs, She Taxis provided a ride to  .

 Launched with much fanfare in the backdrop of the 2012 Nirbhaya gang-rape, She Taxis—with women behind the wheels—were envisaged to provide women a ‘safe, secure and responsible travel.’
 
 The initiative by the Gender Park, an autonomous institution under the social justice department also aimed at bolstering the income of women.
 
 A few years down the road, the women entrepreneurs, who bought cars on loan, are now facing difficulty in continuing the service, thanks to insufficient income.
 
 Launched on November 19, 2013, the taxis came loaded with features such as GPRS tracking, safety alarm, and electronic fare meters.
 
 The taxis, which had a roaring start, soon hit the chicane after the contract with Technopark-based Rain Concert that provided backup service, including call centre support, expired.
 
 The entrepreneurs were later informed that the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation (KSWDC) has taken over the service in September 2017.
 
 And then the glitches started showing, said the entrepreneurs.
 
 Addressing a news conference here, the drivers said they were informed that C-DAC would be providing backup support and Rs 20 lakh for the purpose.
 
 “Nothing happened,” lamented Shyni Prasad, one of the drivers.
 
 The drivers alleged no action was taken even after petitioning social justice minister K K Shailaja and chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 “When we went to meet the social justice minister, she insulted us. We are unable to repay the loan. We have been waiting for the past 12 months and government is not showing any mercy on us. There are around 52 drivers across the state and we are deep in debts,’” said Ancy, another driver.
 
 They alleged that the KSWDC was now pressuring them to function without any gender difference and work like other cab services.
 
 KSWDC chairperson K Saleekha denied the allegations. 
 
 “We have not made any promises regarding She Taxi. We only tried to help the drivers. When KSWDC wanted two taxis, we approached   drivers and took two cars on contract. I have not received any complaints from them so far,” she said.
 
 
