PATNA: Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu will inaugurate the   celebrations at Gandhi Maidan in Patna on March 22. ‘Champaran Satyagrah: Centenary Year’ is the theme this year as it will also mark the closing ceremony of   centenary celebrations. 

 Various cultural activities have been planned at S K Memorial Hall for the three-day event. More than 50 stalls would be set up by various government departments at Gandhi Maidan. The celebrations mark the day when the British carved out   from the Bengal Presidency on March 22, 1912.
 
 Bihar Education Project Council, a wing of state education department, is the nodal organizing department. BEPC state project director Sanjay Singh told TOI on Monday the education department would set up five pavilions to offer various competitive and fun activities like quiz, art and craft, science exhibition, dance, singing, drama, pottery, elocution, poem writing and recitation and some other events. 
 
 “Cartoon, animated and children movies will also be screened. The district level volleyball winners will compete in state-level competition in Patna. The winners of all the events will be felicitated on the concluding day,” he said.
 
 Singh also said local artists would stage nukkad natak on the celebration theme. “A special exhibition on Mahatma Gandhi will showcase the old pictures that the officials have collected from archives. The artists will also recreate the scene of tenant farmers being forced by the British to grow indigo on a portion of their land as a condition of their tenancy,” Singh said.
 
 On March 22, a rock band (Indian Ocean) will regale the audience at Gandhi Maidan with their especially curated programme on Gandhi whereas Punjabi musician Lakhwinder Wadali will entertain the audience at SK Memorial Hall. Indian playback singer Harshdeep Kaur will perform on the second day and singer Shubha Mudgal on the third day at Gandhi Maidan. Leading puppeteer Dadi Pudumjee and musical artist Lakshay Mohan will also entertain the audience at SK Memorial Hall on the second and third day, respectively.
 
 Other pavilions would include that of Bihar State Disaster Management with important dos and don’ts during natural emergency and regarding traffic rules, building construction norms and many more. Tourism department will also offer exquisite cuisines of Bihar. 
 
 Industries department and public health engineering department will also put up their pavilions.
 
 
