MUMBAI: The defence in the   confronted witness Kajal Sharma with discrepancies in her statement given to the Khar police, the first to investigate the case, and her statement given to the special trial court.

 Sharma, accused Indrani Mukerjea’s former assistant, is the third prosecution witness to depose in the case. During her examination by the special prosecutor Kavita Patil last month, Sharma had submitted that she had forged the victim’s signature on Indrani’s instructions. She had said that she had signed in as   on a resignation letter handed over to the victim’s employer after her disappearance and also on the cancellation letter of the leave-and-licence agreement of her flat.
 
 Sharma had said that she initially refused to practise and learn Sheena’s signature as per Indrani’s instructions relayed over phone from London on May 3, 2012. She said that Indrani had insisted and told her that Sheena was in the US and had no internet facility there.
 
 However, Indrani’s defence lawyer   on Friday pointed out that she hadn’t mentioned her initial refusal to forge the signature to the Khar police when they recorded her statement in 2015. When asked why this was the case, Sharma replied, “I have stated to the Khar police that on May 3, 2012, when Indrani asked me to practise Sheena’s signature, I declined to follow the instructions. I gave the statement in Hindi while they have written it in Marathi. Therefore it must have not been mentioned that I declined to follow Indrani’s instructions.”
 
 Further, Pasbola pointed out that while Sharma told the court that in July 2012 when Indrani had once again asked her to forge signatures to terminate Sheena’s leaveand-licence agreement, she had told her that she had forgotten how to sign and Indrani had instructed her to practise, it was not mentioned in the statement given to Khar police. When Pasbola questioned Sharma on the discrepancy, she answered, “I have given the same statement to everyone. I don’t know why the same was not recorded by Khar police.”
 
 Sharma’s cross examination will continue on May 29.
 
 It is the CBI’s case that Sheena (24) was allegedly abducted and murdered on April 24, 2012, by her mother Indrani, Indrani’s former husband Sanjeev Khanna and driver Shyamvar Rai in a conspiracy with Indrani’s current husband, Peter Mukerjea. Rai has turned approver in the case.
 
 
