NEW DELHI: The Central Bureau of Investigation   property and investments documents worth crores and cheque books allegedly belonging to Delhi health minister   while searching a private safe in an unrelated case on Saturday night.

 The CBI, while probing a corruption case, arrested Dr Rishi Raj, registrar of Delhi Dental Council, and N Pradeep Sharma, advocate, Delhi Dental Council, on Saturday night while taking Rs 4.73-lakh bribe from a complainant on the promise of getting him a favourable order from DDC and extending help in legal proceedings.
 
 The arrested DDC functionaries had allegedly demanded Rs 15 lakh. Following their arrest, agency teams searched their residences and found a safe inside Raj’s house. Inside, they found documents allegedly in the name of Jain.
 
 CBI spokesperson Abhishek Dayal claimed the safe contained three   documents allegedly belonging to Jain — sale deed of land measuring 12 bigha 2 biswa, sale deed of another piece of land measuring 8 bigha 17 biswa and a power of attorney for land measuring 14 bighas — all three in Karala village in Delhi.
 
 AAP leaders said the CBI action was a conspiracy against Jain and he was being framed for documents already submitted to CBI.
 
 Bank counterfoils pertaining to cheque deposits worth Rs 2 crore in 2011 in the name of Jain, his wife Poonam Jain and a company linked to them JJ Ideal State Pvt Company, 41 cheque books reflecting transactions worth crores by Jain and family, apart from Rs 24 lakh cash and half kg gold, were also recovered from the safe, Dayal claimed.
 
 It was not yet clear whether the cash and gold belonged to Jain and his family members, but the property documents, investments and cheque books belonged to him, sources alleged.
 
 The agency will question Jain soon about the recoveries.
 
 Delhi government spokesperson Nagendra Sharma took to Twitter to say, “Satyendar Jain is being framed. He has no link with that registrar. So far, BJP has been unable to find anything against him in the other cases. In fact, in the other cases against Jain, the BJP government has been pulled up by the high court. Now, BJP is hatching a new conspiracy.”
 
 AAP Delhi’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj reiterated the government’s view. “The papers CBI is referring to are those that Satyendar Jain has himself given to CBI twice and are declared in the income-tax returns for the past many years. What is new in these? BJP government is only trying to spoil Satyendar Jain’s image,” he tweeted.
 
 In August 2017, CBI filed a disproportionate assets case against Jain and his wife for allegedly amassing illegal wealth of Rs 1.62 crore between 2015 and 2017. The DA case was the outcome of a preliminary inquiry registered against him in April 2017 into alleged laundering of Rs 16 crore.
 
 Jain is also under the CBI scanner in two other cases — one related to appointment of his daughter Soumya as advisor in Delhi government's health department and another to the appointment of his officer-on-special duty, Nikunj Aggarwal.
 
 The income-tax department and the Enforcement Directorate are also investigating Jain. 
 
 The tax authorities last year attached more than 100 bighas of land in the national capital as well as shares in companies allegedly linked to Jain.
 
 
