KOLKATA : Lack of monitoring on part of a section of on-duty   ( ) officials at Garden Reach Waterworks led to Saturday’s snag, it is believed.

 “There may be several reasons for the snag, where parts of the major pump were blown away by a blast. One of the reasons could be attributed to human failure to understand the pressure of water that comes from the intake jetty and passes through the pumping station,” a KMC engineer said.
 
  
  
 
 The function of the pump is to lift water and ensure it enters the main pipe, which carries filtered water out of the treatment plant to booster pumping stations, in right pressure. “We suspect air had entered the valves of the pump and blocked water. When the pressure of water became too intense, the pump failed to withstand it and led to the blast,” he explained.
 
 After a round of internal study of the pump installed in the first phase, a group of experts has hinted that more vigil should have been maintained on the ‘oldest’ but ‘most efficient’ pump in the entire waterworks. “The on-duty technicians knew that the pump, which was installed in 1982, had become old and needed extra care and monitoring. If the technicians bothered to undertake a daily check, the disaster could have been averted,” said a KMC official.
 
 A KMC water supply official at Garden Reach Waterworks said a second pump installed adjacent to the oldest one had developed a technical snag a month ago. “We paid immediate attention to the pump and repaired it on a war-footing. Had we then checked the condition of the biggest pump, it could have survived,” the official conceded.
 
 Of the 14 pumps that are operated at four water treatment plants, the pump that became defunct on Saturday night alone had the capacity to pump 1.7 million gallon water in an hour. “As we were forced to shut down the pumping station (the restoration will take another four-five days), we will have to ration water to large parts of south Kolkata,” said a KMC water supply department official.
 
 On Monday, residents of Garden Reach, Behala, New Alipore, Chetla, and   complained of water shortage. Sources in the department admitted that some parts of Behala and Tollygunge received much less water compared to   or Kalighat.
 
 Mayor Sovan Chatterjee on Monday said that efforts were being taken to keep supply normal, keeping in view students taking the Higher Secondary examinations that are beginning on Tuesday. “The civic body will announce reward for four KMC water supply department employees posted at Garden Reach Waterworks for making all efforts to bring back normality after Saturday’s disaster. They risked their lives to set the system right,” Chatterjee said.
 
 
  
 
