KOLKATA: The enteric outbreak, reported from Jadavpur, Baghajatin and Patuli areas on Saturday, is spreading to other areas as well. On Sunday, patients from Metiabruz, Topsia and Baranagar were also admitted to ID Hospital Beliaghata with complaints of diarrhoea. Fifteen of the patients, who were admitted to Baghajatin State   on Saturday, were shifted to the ID Hospital on Sunday.

 “Patients from different localities are trickling in with symptoms of enteric disease. If the number keeps swelling the hospital will be under pressure,” said a source at ID Hospital.
 
 Md Shakil of Meatiabruz under ward number 134 said that seven in his family have been affected by the disease. While two had to be hospitalized, the rest are undergoing treatment at home. “Luckily, my father has been discharged from hospital. But we had to admit my nephew at ID Hospital on Sunday. None from the civic body has visited the locality,” Shakil said.
 
 More than 36 hours after enteric disease gripped several pockets, specially on the southern fringes, the   ( ) officials are still in the dark about the origin of the disease. On Sunday, 10 patients with symptoms of diarrhoea were admitted to Baghajatin State General Hospital.
 
 In the wake of a fresh outbreak, the civic authorities have decided to open all its ward health units in the affected areas, including Baghajatin, Jadavpur, Patuli, Kasba, Garfa and Santoshpur. More than 100 patients have visited these clinics on Sunday.
 
 The KMC water supply department collected samples from 55 sources and sent those for testing at the civic laboratories. The samples were collected from Kasba, Rajdanga, Mukundapur, Santoshpur, Jadavpur, Baghajatin and Patuli among other areas. However, a KMC water supply department senior official said the reports confirmed that no contamination was found in the filtered water.
 
 Mayor Sovan Chatterjee, MMiC (health) Atin Ghosh and MMiC Debabrata Majumdar, who visited the affected areas, said there was no reason to panic. “Though the civic officials have said there was nothing to panic, it’s not easy to ward off the danger,” said Sarmila Sengupta, a resident of Baghajatin.
 
