NAGPUR: A brother-sister duo has alleged that a senior police inspector thrashed them in his chamber when they were recording a video on their mobile to document police apathy. The duo claims that Shanti Nagar police station PI   thrashed them with a ‘police belt’ when they had gone to register an FIR.

 However, Nagrale claimed the police took action as per the law, and the brother sustained injuries when he tripped on the staircase. The brother and sister were identified as Saurabh Bajpai and his cousin  .
 
 The duo claim that on April 22 Monali’s father got into a quarrel with around 20 of Sourabh’s in-laws, following which her brother Vivek went to resolve the matter. However, Vivek and his friend too got into a fight with the in-laws. On seeing her brother being thrashed, Monali rushed to Shanti Nagar police station after calling emergency number 100.
 
 However, the cops did not register her complaint, following which she started making a video recording of the cops. Monali’s phone was snatched by some policemen and she was sent home.
 
 The cops then brought both the fighting groups, and registered offences against both of them. The next day, Monali was called to the police station, so she asked Saurabh to accompany her. Saurabh started video recording inside the police station, but one of the cop noticed it, and informed Nagrale.
 
 “Nagrale suddenly started abusing, and assaulting me with kicks and punches. Nagrale then called his deputy and asked him to bring ‘Bajirao’ (police-belt), and assaulted me. Monali too sustained some hits, but was later sent away. He then continued to hit me,” said Saurabh.
 
 A case of obstruction in official work was registered against Saurabh. The brother-sister duo is demanding action against Nagrale for thrashing them both. They have also approached the court in the matter.
 
 Nagrale said, “We registered a case against Saurabh as they were creating ruckus at the police station. We have also conducted medical examination of the accused as it was directed by the court. All the steps taken by us were as per the law. The matter in pending before the court, whatever the court directs will be accepted by everyone.”
 
 “I had joined on April 23 after my holidays. I thought both the groups are relatives, so I tried to settle them down, but when my deputy tried to take the mobile from Saurabh, he snapped and tripped over the staircase,” Nagrale claimed.
 
 
