CHANDIGARH: The   on Friday submitted a chargesheet against former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh   and 33 others in connection with the alleged land acquisition scam in   area of Gurgaon that caused a loss of around Rs 1,500 crore to farmers. The chargesheet says builders bought land worth Rs 1,600 crore for just Rs 100 crore from gullible farmers on the pretext that it would be acquired by the state government for a nominal amount. 

 This is the first chargesheet against the former chief minister who is also facing two more   probes for alleged irregularities in allotting industrial plots in Panchkula. Sources said CBI may soon file one more charge sheet against Hooda and others in the Panchkula case. 
 
  
  
 
 Ahead of assembly elections in the state scheduled next year, the chargesheet could act as a political drag for Hooda, giving ammunition to not only the   but also his rivals in the   to target him. 
 
 Besides Hooda, the chargesheet names three former Haryana bureaucrats who had worked in the   at the time, real estate companies and officials of Haryana's department of town and country planning. The document, running into about 80,000 pages, was brought to the court of the special CBI magistrate at Panchkula in a large almirah carried by four men.
 
 
 
 Former bureaucrats who have been chargesheeted along with Hooda are M L Tayal, Chattar Singh and S S Dhillon, all of whom worked as principal secretary to Hooda when he was chief minister. While Tayal also worked as member of the Competition Commission of India (CCI), Chattar Singh was appointed as a member of the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). Dhillon recently retired from the civil services.
 
 All the accused have been charged for criminal conspiracy, cheating, using as genuine a forged document, criminal conspiracy and various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 According to the chargesheet, the Hooda government had in 2004 issued a notification to acquire 912 acres of land to set up an Industrial Model Township (IMT) at Manesar, Naurangpur and Lakhnoula in Gurgaon. But before the acquisition could begin, around 400 acres were allegedly grabbed by builders who apparently threatened farmers that if they did not sell the land to them, it would be acquired by the government at meagre rates.
 
 Later, an order was also passed by director of industries on August 24, 2007 releasing these 400 acres from the acquisition process in favour of the builders, their companies and agents, instead of the original land owners.
 
 “In the said manner, land measuring about 400 acres whose market value at that time was around Rs 4 crore per acre totaling around Rs 1,600 crore was allegedly purchased by the private builders and others from the innocent land owners for only around Rs 100 crore. An alleged loss of Rs 1,500 crore to the land owners of village Manesar, Naurangpur and Lakhnoula of District Gurgaon was caused,” the FIR said.
 
 In September 2016, the CBI had conducted searches at 24 places in Rohtak, Gurgaon, Delhi, Chandigarh and Panchkula in connection with the case. This included homes and offices of Hooda and others.
 
 Reacting to the chargesheet submitted by the CBI against him, Hooda said, “This is the BJP’s vendetta politics. From Day One, when the case was registered, I have been saying that I am a lawabiding citizen and have full faith in the judicial system.”
 
 Ashok Tanwar, the Haryana Congress president said this is the ruling party’s vendetta politics and the party would fight it legally and democratically.
 
 
