BENGALURU: The message for   from the passionate West Block Blues was loud and clear during Bengaluru FC’s final home game of the season. “We want you to stay. Roca, we want you to stay,” the 1000-odd fans chanted during the club’s AFC Cup match against   at the   on Wednesday.

 
 Despite the best efforts of the team management and the ardent support from the fans, it appears that the   coach is unlikely to extend his contract which will expire on May 31. “He is set to leave. He has already made a farewell speech to the players,” informed sources told TOI.
 
 Roca had walked in to loud cheers from the fans and the Spaniard even made an extra effort to acknowledge them as he waved back many times. Later, at the post-match press conference, he was asked about the fans’ request to stay with the club. He, however, refused to say anything about his future with Bengaluru.
 
 According to sources, Roca is finding it difficult to stay away from his family for such long periods. “During the last two years, Roca would have gone home for hardly two months. Unlike the coaches in other Indian Super League ( ) clubs, many of whom came for a brief spell, Roca had a much tougher assignment with the club also featuring in the AFC Cup competition that forced him to stay away from home for long periods,” they said.
 
 “The club management would have given him the best offer that could have made him the highest-paid coach in the ISL but Roca’s mind, it seems, is more with his family than on his earnings in India. It is highly unlikely that Roca will stay as any new deal would have happened well in advance. With days running out, it is becoming more and more unlikely. A clearer picture would emerge on May 17, the club’s annual awards day,” they added.
 
 A top Bengaluru official was recently in Spain and sources said he could be scouting for not just players but also for a coach who could replace Roca. “There will be lot of ISL clubs willing to offer him a job but it doesn’t look like Roca wants to work at any club in India other than with Bengaluru. If not Europe he could be looking at West Asian countries,” sources said.
 
 Among the possible replacements for Roca could be former Bengaluru assistant coach Carles Cuadrat, who quit the club in December citing health concerns. Roca took over as head coach in July 2016 after the club parted ways with Englishman Ashley Westwood.
 
 Under Roca’s guidance, Bengaluru became the first Indian club to enter the final of the AFC Cup in 2016. Though the Blues failed to win an I-league or the ISL with Roca at the helm, they won the Super Cup to keep their record of one trophy every season intact.
 
 
 Meanwhile, Mandar Tamhane, Chief Technical Officer, BFC said there is still of lot of time for the club to discuss the matter. “The contract (of Roca) ends on May 31 but he can even take a break and come back. We have not discussed about this as there are lot of possibilities. Nothing is decided as yet,” Tamhane said.
 
