SECUNDERABAD: To cash in on the festive season and regulate the entry of non-travelling public into major railway stations like Secunderabad, the   on Monday announced that it is hiking the price of platform tickets at   railway station from Rs 10 to Rs 20 between January 11 and January 17.

 An   spokesperson said they anticipate a huge rush of passengers and accompanying non-travelling public at this major railway station during the ensuing Sankranti festival.
 However, there are several loopholes in the process of curbing the entry of non-travelling persons into station premises by doubling platform ticket charges during peak seasons.
 
  
 According to ticket checking staff, many of those who come to see off their friends or family members at the railway stations dodge this by buying an MMTS second class ticket priced at Rs 5 and this crowd management tactic goes for a toss.
 
 Though the highest demand for platform tickets is seen in Secunderabad, Kacheguda, Falaknama and Nampally (Hyderabad) railway stations, sources said that on an average, around 1,000 platform tickets go abegging every day at these stations as people resort to innovative means to evade ticket collectors deployed at different stations.
 
 Ticket collectors said after platform tickets were hiked to Rs 10 in 2015, many IT professionals commuting via HiTec City hit upon the idea of buying MMTS second class tickets to enter railway platforms.
 
 “Soon the practice spread like wildfire with others too making a beeline for MMTS tickets to see off passengers. The situation will not improve until the MMTS fare for second class journey is brought at par with the existing platform ticket fare,” said a senior ticket checker.
 
 However, nearly 12.4 lakh people buy platform tickets for stations under SCR every month, putting Rs 1.24 crore into its coffers. But SCR has to shell out far more on maintaining cleanliness at stations and on the tracks. It awards contracts through tenders for the upkeep of railway stations and the cost depends on the area of station premises.
 
 It may be pertinent to add, that in some countries there is no concept of platform ticket as only railway travelers are allowed to enter the station premises.
 
 On the other hand, the concept of platform tickets in India poses a threat to the safety of passengers as anyone shelling out Rs 10 on normal days gets a ‘license’ to enter the railway station premises and commit nuisance.
 
