GURUGRAM:   has submitted a survey report to the deputy commissioner’s office, recommending against infrastructure development in five unauthorised   — Ganga Vihar,  , Prem Puri Jharsa, Islampur Jharsa and Sahib Kunj. 

 These are among 52 colonies earlier earmarked for development work, after they were declared deficient in civic amenities and infrastructure.
 
 According to MCG officials, there are major corrections suggested in these five areas. In Ganga Vihar, for instance, the colony to be regularised partly effects the 30m-wide green belt along with railway line between   and Delhi. 
 
 In Nitin Vihar, the boundary of the colony cuts through plots. In Prem Puri Jharsa, a large (1.5 acre) commercial area is situated within its boundary. 
 
 “Green belts are left out so that in case a road needs to be expanded in the future, that space can be used for this purpose. If we regularise these colonies on an as-is basis, it might create problems later,” said Sudhir Singh Chouhan, Senior Town Planner, MCG.
 
 The guidelines laid down by the state government say no commercial or institutional property will be regularised. In the area around Islampur village, the colony partly abuts into a 30m-wide green belt, while some area falls in the site allocated for a hospital in Sector 33.
 
 “In case of Sahib Kunj as well, we face a similar situation, where the colony affects two 24m internal roads and a 30m green belt along the railway line,” said Chouhan. 
 
 The survey report has been submitted to the deputy commissioner for further consideration. If the district administration agrees on the regularisation process, the report will be further sent to the divisional commissioner, D Suresh, to be sent to the government.
 
 Of the 52 colonies earmarked by MCG for development work, 15 have been taken over for development of civic amenities and infrastructure a couple of months ago, under the Haryana management of civic amenities and infrastructure deficient municipal areas (special provisions) Act, 2014. 
 
 Another 32 colonies were recommended to MCG for observation. Of these, names of seven have been sent to the divisional commissioner’s office, after they were verified by the district town planner. Of the rest 25 colonies, 19 have been found suitable for government approval through the divisional commissioner.
 
 The government had decided the process will be done in two phases. In phase one, the colonies will be identified as infrastructure deficient. In phase two, they will be developed, but only if residents of these areas pay a developmental charge at the rate of Rs 1,250 per sq ft. However, provisions under the Act are only applicable for a year. “In case residents of these colonies do not submit 50% of the development charges applicable to them within a year, the provision will lapse,” said Chouhan.
 
 
