KOLKATA: The education commission of the   of Calcutta has sent out advisories to as many as 85 schools in the city, including Don Bosco and St Xavier’s Collegiate School, to adopt all provisions mentioned in Pocso Act, 2012. Several other instructions have been given out to the heads of schools, which includes guidelines like formation of the sexual harassment committee and making the names of the members public.

 The institutes will also have to take an undertaking from teachers to abide by the law. The commission has set a March 31 deadline for the institutions to implement the advices.
 
 
  
  
 
 “We have   cameras in place. Also, we have already set up the internal committee so that if and whenever a case of harassment comes up, it can come in action. The committee has representatives from both, the teachers and the parents. The report from the committee will be tabled before the school managing committee, the highest decision-making body,” said Bikash Mondal, principal of Don Bosco School, Park Circus.
 
 Don Bosco holds an orientation programme for teachers in June every year and this time, the authorities plan to discuss the issues related to the Act and make the staffers aware of the rules laid down to protect students. “Our school is already guided by certain separate regulations, which were told to the members when the committee first met,” Mondal said.
 
 Father Joy Cyprian, Diocesan inspector of schools, feels that the guidelines will benefit school authorities to deal with any complaint related to children and help create a better environment for students. “We, however, insist that the names of members representing the committee should be made public since individuals associated with the school should be in the know of them. Also, transparency can be maintained when parents and students will know the procedure to lodge a complaint in case of any violation,” said Cyprian.
 
 Father Benny Thomas, principal of St Xavier’s Collegiate School, which is also a guided by the Calcutta Archdiocese, pointed out that the teachers’ orientation was done in December. “CCTV cameras are already installed. We are now upgrading the equipment for monitoring. The decisions taken by the   are aimed at minimizing any assault and it will enhance student safety,”   added.
 
 Another city school principal said, “Heads of Catholic schools met before the unfortunate incident in a south Kolkata school. Now that the advisories have been issued, the recommendations will help schools improve on areas.”
 
