 : Visitors to the famed Ramanathaswamy temple in Rameswaram as well as school students and their parents were taken by surprise by the convoy of vehicles zig zagging the normally quiet town. Though they knew that Kamal Haasan would be embarking on his political journey from the town, they did not bargain for the traffic chaos on the narrow roads and bylanes.

 Starting his day early on Wednesday, Kamal first visited former president A P J Abdul Kalam’s residence in a small lane in Rameswaram. He interacted with Kalam’s family and sought the blessings of the former President’s elder brother Mohammed Muthu Meera Lebbai Maraicker. “Kalam resided in a simple house, but his national spirit was something which everyone should learn from,” Kamal said after the visit. 
 
 However, the actor’s plan to visit Kalam’s school had to be cancelled as the district administration did not grant permission. “I don't see any politics involved in this. At the same time, they can only prevent me from entering the school. They cannot prevent me from learning,” Haasan said, terming Kalams life a book to learn a lot from.
 
 His planned interactive session with Rameswaram fishermen, started off on the right note with Kamal calling them his 'Meenava Nanbargal' (fishermen friends), a take-off on the strategy of MGR, who was considered close to the fishing community. One of MGR's hit films was titled 'Meenava Namban'. 
 
 “Fishing is an important profession and there is a need to take care of the safety of the fishermen community. While several governments had made promises, they have failed to fulfil them. When questioned, they would divert attention by creating new issues,” he said. At the same time, fishermen too should understand the need to adhere to international laws, in an obvious reference to the frequent attacks on fishermen from   by the Sri Lankan Navy. He expressed the hope that his friends understood what he meant.
 
 However, Kamal’s attempt to befriend the fisherfolk faltered at the beginning itself, as it turned out to be a short address due to paucity of time and chaos inside the hall. He promised to visit them on a later date for a planned interaction. 
 
 However, exhibiting qualities of a quick learner, he soon made up for the goof, probably coming to know that the community was upset. He invited fishermen leaders on to the stage at the venue of a press conference.
 
 The actor told the media that   chief minister   had called him on Tuesday night and wished him. “Instead of worrying about policies, he advised me to draw up a list of things to do for the people and that will ensure success,” Kamal said.
 
 Reacting to certain quarters questioning an actor for entering politics, Kamal said, “Anyone who has the intent and the passion can enter politics. I want people from all walks of life to come into politics. Had that happened in the past, we would not have come to despair now,” he said.
 
 En route to Madurai, Kamal addressed short meetings at Ramanathapuram, his native Paramakudi and Manamadurai. “This town has changed a lot. But my people have remained the same,” he said at Ramanathapuram and sought people’s support and guidance, before heading to Paramakudi.
 
 At his hometown Paramakudi, his address was very short and he did not even get onto the stage. “I am your son. Please do the needful,” he said, getting a roaring applause from the crowd, comprising a couple of thousands.
 
 
