CHENNAI:   should double its wind energy capacity to 15GW and increase its solar capacity six-fold to 13.8GW by 2026-27 instead of investing in thermal units to the extent of 22,400MW in the coming years, says a study done by US-based Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA).

 Electricity Transformation in India: A Case Study of Tamil Nadu showed how Tamil Nadu is building 22,500MW of coal-fired power plants - almost double the entire existing coal-fired fleet in the state - despite favourable investment and electricity tariff costs of wind and solar. Building more non-pithead coal-based plants at a time when existing plants are being utilized only to the extent of 62% or below, as opposed to the optimal 80%, will make new and existing plants financially unviable, said the study released in the city on Wednesday.
  
  
 “A more diversified electricity generation mix will serve Tamil Nadu better. New low cost solar capital additions and a major re-powering of Tamil Nadu’s wind projects, a concerted improvement in energy efficiency plus reduced transmission and distribution losses, should deliver more than 80% of all electricity demand growth in the coming decade,” IEEFA’s   director Tim Buckley said. By adopting more green power, the discom would be able to operate profitably and at a lower tariff for consumers, said Buckley.
 
 Tamil Nadu has the maximum installed wind energy generation capacity in the country. It is behind only a few provinces in China and Texas in America. Tamil Nadu has temporarily slipped to third position in terms of commissioned solar infrastructure in India, but the 1.5GW solar tender of July 2017 will see the state vie for leadership position again by the end of 2018-19, said the study. Tangedco, on the other hand, says investing in thermal units cannot be stopped as wind and solar power are infirm sources and the discom cannot depend only on one source of power to meet the demand. “Wind power is seasonal in Tamil Nadu. This source of power is being evacuated to the maximum during summer season when most of the thermal units are on a standby mode due to better forecast. Same is the case with solar plants. Solar power is available during day time and for the rest of the period we need to use thermal units,” said a senior Tangedco official reacting to the study recommendations.
 
 Tamil Nadu has many old thermal units which are working to good capacity utilisation despite living beyond its life. “Most of the new projects announced are only to replace old thermal units in Tuticorin and Mettur. Tangedco is not investing to add more thermal capacity and instead we plan to add not less than 1,500MW of solar capacity each year through tenders,” said the official.
 
 
