CHANDIGARH: The state information commission (SIC),  , has imposed a penalty of Rs 25,000 on   officials for demanding Rs 5,000 from an RTI applicant for the services of two department employees to prepare the information sought by him. 

 It has passed the orders while hearing an appeal filed by   of Hisar. The appellant had sought certain information from the department on August 29, 2017, under the RTI act. On August 29, 2017, the SPIO directed him to deposit Rs 5,300 on account of document fee, postal charges and disproportionate resources charges. An appeal was filed on September 21, 2017, before the first appellate authority, which also failed to provide him any information.
 
 Aggrieved from the attitude of the department officials, the applicant had approached the SIC with the prayer to provide requisite information to him and initiate penal action against the respondent SPIO. He had also asked for compensation.
 
 "The present appeal lies in the category of rare cases, where the special public information officer (SPIO) has imagined and implemented his own whims without any legal basis. The situation becomes all the more grim as the respondent SPIO is a senior functionary in the rank of executive engineer and has a service of 24 years as a gazetted officer to his credit. If an SPIO of such a standing misinterprets the provisions of the RTI Act in the 13th year of its implementation, the situation becomes all the more regrettable," observed state information commission   in a detailed order.
 
 The commission made these observations while slapping a Rs 25000 fine on  , SPIO-cum-executive engineer (electrical division) PWD, Hisar. In its May 1 order, Atri further observed that instead of filing an apology, the SPIO had tried to impose his whims upon the authority of the commission also, which is a serious matter and cannot be taken lightly. 
 
 The commission further observed that the SPIO took more than seven months to furnish information, which was in contravention of all provisions of the RTI Act and harassed the appellant by his act of delay amounting to denial of information.
 
 
