Be it a medium for staying connected, finding long lost friends or showing off your lifestyle,   is quite useful for many net addicts in many ways. For some, it a marketing tool for their small or big businesses and for others, it is a fabulous way to make their talent reach the masses. Quite naturally then, the current #DeleteFacebook phenomenon in the wake of the revelation about the misuse of private data obtained from the platform, has really left the FB users in a dilemma. There are some who are not ready to let anybody invade their privacy. On What’s Up  ? this week, we ask the city collegians whether they are ready to   their Facebook accounts. Here’s what they have to say… 

 
 
 I realise that there is no way to totally contain data leak, be it from Facebook or any other social networking sites. Hence, I wouldn’t delete my social presence from a platform like Facebook, which certainly helps me in finding like-minded people and also in sharing content which I think is appropriate for the social circle.
  — Shivam Pandey, Ramdeobaba College Of Engineering and Management
 
 
 
 Too much use of social media can also affect the privacy of an individual as social media can make a person more vulnerable to predators and cyber bullies. In this age, cyber bullying is quite common and can occur to any young person online. So I don’t mind deleting my Facebook account. It’s not the end of life, I can survive without FB. 
  — Dimple Anandnani, Raisoni Law School 
 
 
 It is helpful and effective for people like me who want to promote something by making a Facebook page. It is easy to find and approach somebody on this site. Also, the DIY culture has gained immense popularity. De-activating Facebook accounts may serve as a temporary solution until the people at Facebook provide us with better privacy and security solutions.
  — Gauri Shembekar, Hislop College
 
 
 
 Facebook is the technology giant and no such campaigns such as #DeleteFacebook is going reduce the customer base of FB. Having said this, I will delete it soon. I have more than one reason to quit. Facebook is good for connecting with different people and making friends, but I don’t intend to waste much time on it. One of the alternate social media platforms that I’m exploring these days is LinkedIn. It helps me know more about the business world. 
  — Mininath Jirage, VNIT
 
 While signing up for such social media sites it’s always important to be careful because privacy is a big concern. Even as college students, in case we want to promote our organisation, or new ventures, it’s the best platform available according to me. So no point deleting it. I’ll more careful about things that I’ll post in future.
  — Shilpak Toye, YCCE 
 
 
 
