PATNA: Minister of state for civil aviation   on Monday said flights for Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru would start operating from   airbase within the next six months. 

 Sinha, who assessed the progress made in the development of Darbhanga, Patna and Bihta airports, said here that steps are also being taken for expansion of   (JPNI), Patna for its transformation into a new airport with “world class” facilities and look.
 
 “New terminal area of the existing Patna airport is being expanded incorporating new architectural designs in tune with the local sensibility. The new airport will be ready in the next four years,” Sinha told reporters at the state   headquarters here. He said the need for expansion of Patna airport was felt as passenger footfall at the airport increased from 10 lakh to 30 lakh per year in the last four years.
 
 Sinha said work on Bihta airbase would be taken up from the scratch and it would be developed as greenfield airport. “Steps are also being taken to increase the number of flights from Gaya international airport,” he added.
 
 The minister said the last four Union Budgets have strengthened the country’s economy and now focus has been shifted to the agriculture sector.
 
 Sinha said the country’s economy should be assessed in terms of five important points – proposal to increase the MSP of crops, Rs 5 lakh health cover for 10 crore poor families, increased allotment in the rural sector to double farmers’ income by 2022, attention on quality education in government schools and macro-economic stability. 
 
 “Demonetisation and introduction of goods and services tax (GST) helped in formalising the country’s economy. Today, the country has an increased tax base. All the indicators of macro economy – current account deficit, price rise, 18% increase in direct taxes and 50% increase in indirect taxes – point out that the economy is strong. The fiscal deficit should be within 3.2% in the 2019-20 Budget,” Sinha said, adding self-employment and entrepreneurial activities should also be counted as job creation.
 
 He said if consensus developed among state governments and the GST Council, diesel and petrol could also be brought under the GST. 
 
 
