TIRUPUR: A four-member police team from Avinashi here has been sent to   to probe the ‘death’ of a 19-year-old girl from   who eloped with a Bengali in 2016 and migrated to Bangladesh, where she allegedly died of some illness after undergoing an abortion.

 According to police,  , daughter of U Muruganandham and Selva Gomathi of Attayampalayam, fell in love with Rimu Sheikh of South 24 Parganas district in West Bengal while the duo was working in a garment manufacturing unit in  .
 
 In July 2016,   eloped with Sheikh. Poorna was only 17 when she ran away with him. Her parents had lodged a girl missing complaint with the Avinashi police, but they had to withdraw it later when Poorna told them that she had married Sheikh on her own will after she turned 18.
 
 Poorna’s parents initially thought that the duo might have been settled at Sheikh’s native place in West Bengal, but the couple told them that they had migrated to Bangladesh.
 
 Her parents were in touch with the couple and used to talk to them over phone every week. On February 9, Sheik informed Muruganandham that Poorna, who had undergone an abortion, had died of some illness.
 
 “But we are still in dark about the cause of death and when she had died. Sheikh claimed that the body was cremated, but he refused to disclose any other details. We doubt whether she has actually died,” Muruganandham told TOI.
 
 Based on her parents compliant, the Avinashi police have registered a case. “We have conducted inquiries with Sheikh over phone a few times. However, we are yet to confirm certain information that are important to take forward the case,” Tirupur superintendent of police (SP) E S Uma told TOI.
 
 Hence, a four-member police team led by Avinashi law and order inspector   has been formed and sent to West Bengal to do a background check on Sheikh and collect details about how the couple had migrated to Bangladesh, a senior police officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, the state commissionerate of rehabilitation and welfare of non-resident Tamils has contacted Bangladesh embassy regarding the case.
 
 “Last week, we forwarded a report submitted by the SP to the commissionerate of rehabilitation and welfare of non-resident Tamils, which is in touch with Bangladesh embassy,” said a senior revenue official.
 
 
