Rajkot: The detection of crime branch (DCB) of Rajkot police cracked the sensational Rs 26 lakh diamond loot that happened in Limda Chowk, the busiest area of Rajkot even at the night time and the hub of private bus operators.

 The crime branch sleuths arrested two persons who had targeted two employees of local angadia (courier) firm on April 25. They were carrying the valuables to Surat. The accused Bhavesh Sarvaiya (24) and Mushtaq Payak (21) were arrested from Rajula town of Amreli district. 
 
 They named one Shahrukh as the mastermind and another accomplice Zuber Rehmanbhai, both of whom are absconding. They had committed the crime to repay debts amounting to Rs 5 lakh. 
 
 The looted valuables were kept buried in the house of Rehmanbhai and they had placed big stones on the pit, they said. 
 
 Two employees of Akshar angadia were about to board a private bus for Surat to deliver the valuables when one staffer Babuji Vaghela was pushed from behind and his bag snatched. 
 
 Addressing media persons, city police commissioner Anoopam Singh Gehlot said, “The accused were hiding in an isolated area of Khambha near Rajula. They carried out a recce for nearly 15 days before committing the crime.”
 
 After the loot, police checked all the CCTVs of roads which were being used by the angadia employees for past 15 days. They noticed a bike that was following their autorickshaw from Sorathiavadi, where the office of this firm is located, to Limda Chowk. The employees were delivering these valuables every alternate day at Surat. 
 
 “On the day of loot, the accused overtook the autorickshaw on a bike and reached Limda Chowk ahead of the angadia employees. There were four people on two bikes. Sarvaiya then thrashed Vaghela and snatched his bag. All four then fled towards Gondal Road,” said Gehlot.
 
 Police checked CCTV footage of areas in Gondal, Junagadh and Amreli. The accused decided to hide in an isolated place till the case was in focus and planned to sell the valuables later. 
 
 “Shahrukh, a native of Rajula and living in city’s Jangleshwar area had plotted the loot and called his three friends from Rajula. The four committed the crime jointly to pay off their debts,” Gehlot said.
 
 Sarvaiya and Payak work as petrol pump attendants in Rajula while Shahrukh is an autorickshaw driver. 
 
 
