LUDHIANA: Ludhianvis who had been battling scorching heat for the past couple of weeks were taken by surprise on Friday when the sky went dark all of sudden due to heavy cloud cover. Though heavy dust storm troubled commuters, rain afterwards provided much respite to the city.

 Even as the day remained hot till around 4pm, the condition changed at around 4.30pm when dust storm hit the city.
 
 Officials of the meteorological department said the wind speed in Ludhiana (measured at   airport) was recorded around 55 km per hour. However, the department didn’t record any drizzle in city as it was not measurable.
 
 The impact of rainfall and dust storm in the evening didn’t reflect on the maximum (day) temperature as the same was recorded at 41.7 degrees, which is two degrees more than normal. Even the minimum (night) temperature in the city on Friday was recorded on higher side at 28.8 degrees, which is four degrees more than normal.
 
 Even as rain and winds lashed the city on Friday, the meteorological department said the heat conditions might be back soon.
 
 The officials said the disturbance on Friday evening was localized and there is little chance of such disturbance in the next few days. They added that light rainfall is expected on June 7 and same may remain for a day or two.
 
 The department website meanwhile predicted rise in day temperature to 44 degrees till Tuesday whereas minimum might fall to 26 degrees till Monday.
 
 The residents who were grappling with hot condition meanwhile heaved a sigh of relief after the rainfall.
 
 “It was very hot during the day, but we were surprised to see sudden change in weather in the evening. We were using air conditioners at home and office during the day but later switched off the same and used fan instead as it became pleasant,” said  , a trader of   road.
 
 Anu Anand, a housewife from  , said, “The dust storm took the city for a ride. It was difficult to step out of the house. Several trees fell, blocking the road, and brought down several electricity poles in our area. This resulted in power cut for several hours altogether. However, the rain did bring some respite from the heat.”
 
 Dr  , a physician, said, “Dust storms increase the risk of breathing disorders and respiratory issues. Moreover, I saw a person driving a two-wheeler, when the dust storm started at 4.30pm and he realized that he had no helmet. The dust blinded him and he was about to bang into the divider.”
 
 
