The lofty arches, mammoth doors, endless corridors, butter 'n cream walls, the vintage clock tower, the fountains, and the twinkling chandeliers... Oh, those dreamy, dreamy, chandeliers...” rattled off  , when we asked her what she loves most about the  . Clearly, she had more than one reason to love the 19th century edifice, which was the seat of the Asaf Jahi Dynasty and the 
official residence of the Nizams. So you can imagine her excitement when   invited her for a walk in the palace grounds! Not only was she was up for it pronto, she actually turned up dressed like a princess from the   era, much to the delight of curious visitors at the palace on a balmy Monday morning. “Every time I want to channel the princess in me, I come here,” she quips, letting us in on why she likes the vibe of the palace so much. “I think it’s the best spot in our city; it should be our pride. At least, it’s mine. This is where I bring all my friends who are new to town when I want to show off the heritage of our city,” she says, as she takes a break in between striking a pose, and enjoying the spray shower of stray water droplets from the fountains. “Ever since I discovered this place, it was always my dream to do a ‘princess’ photoshoot here at Chowmahalla Palace,” she quips. So when did she ‘discover’ the palace? “Oh back in college, when I was a basketball player. Since I was part of the   basketball team, I used to get the opportunity to go to various parts of the city for tournaments. It’s during one such outing that I figured this is the Chowmahalla Palace! I still remember buying a ticket and getting into the palace with my team, all of us in our sports uniform (laughs).” 
 
 The years that followed saw   grab any opportunity to visit the palace, especially during nights. “I hardly let go of a chance to come here at night when the chandeliers are all lit up. That’s when the palace truly transforms into a fairytale place. So be it Sufi concerts or fashion shows, if this is the destination, I’m here!,” she avers. The palace and all its royal splendour also makes her a lil’ filmy. “I imagine myself to be a   heroines walking through one of those surreal sprawling sets of his films when I come here. And strangely, whenever I’m been here, I’m also reminded of Om Shanti Om — maybe it’s ’cos of the chandeliers,” she says, smiling.
 
 
