JAIPUR: The 13-point proposal made by the state government during the talks held with Gujjar delegation on Monday included creation of 1% shadow posts from December 9, 2016 to December 21, 2017, the duration between the date when Rajasthan high court quashed the 5% SBC reservation quota and date when the   decided the Special Leave Petition (SLP). 

 The Gujjars however, rejected all the 13 points of the proposal at the Mahapanchayat held at Abbha village near Bayana under the leadership of  .
 
 The proposals laid out that in vacancies wherein the original advertisement included 5% SBC quota and currently recruitment is under way, the state government would ensure 1% additional reservation under the most backward classes (MBC), which included Gujjars and four other communities.
 
 The Supreme Court while deciding the SLP by the state government challenging the high court order quashing the 5% SBC quota had allowed the state to go ahead with 1252 posts where selection process was completed. But 102 candidates did not join. The government said those vacancies would be filled up from the waiting list.
 
 The government also agreed to follow the roaster of the most backward classes. At present the 5% reservation to the most backward classes (MBC) reservation is pending with the Supreme Court and once the decision of the court comes in favour of the government remaining 4% reservation (1% reservation is already given) in that quota would be allotted to MBC.
 
 The state government reiterated its commitment of Rs 1000 crore to the   in five years. The previous government (2008-2013) had allocated Rs 276 crore for the Dev Narayan Board.
 
 Those children who got admission under the Gurukul scheme would be given option of three schools and admission date would be extended till May 31. The scholarship will be disbursed in October.
 
 The alleged irregularities in the entrance test under Dev Narayan Scheme in Dholpur, Alwar and Jhunjhunu districts would be addressed and scooties would be distributed to the meritorious students by August 15. Under the Dev Narayan Scheme, 10 new residential schools, 15 hostels, a stadium at Devlok and 10 Primary   (PHCs).
 
 Under the Bhairon Singh Shekhawat Andyodaya Scheme, the youth belonging to the MBCs would also get loans at 4% interest for self-employment.
 
 The government said the Rohini commission appointed by the central government to submit its report on the proposal for division of the OBC quota on the basis of backwardness would be implemented in the state in tune with the central government’s decision.
 
 
