NAGPUR: In yet another social initiative, NGO Janmanch would be launching its ‘Prakashwat’ project to help the rural children in coming out with flying colours in board examinations. The pilot project would be launched from Murtizapur in Akola, where about 150 children would be provided   of mathematics, science and English for five weeks from May 20.

 The organizers have called on citizens to help them out in this initiative by sponsoring the poor students at just Rs2,500.
 
 “Currently, we’re starting the project for Std X students. Murtizapur was selected since its citizens willingly came out to support the concept. In fact, many teachers from the town are already doing this service for the poor students,” the NGO’s president Sharad Patil said.
 
 He was accompanied by vice presidents Pramod Pande and Amitabh Pawde, Manohar Radke and Raja Akash, who has been made in-charge of entire project.
 
 Explaining the objective, he said, the gap between urban and rural students was increasing as the latter couldn’t afford the exorbitant tuition fees charges by coaching classes. “On account of government’s failure, regular classes are not being held at junior colleges as students prefer coaching institutes. We’re targeting the rural students from 16 towns, who don’t have such luxury and solely depend on the teachers. We would be providing them with the study material and two time snacks.”
 
 Akash said, on Sunday, the students would be addressed by reputed trainers from various fields like counselling and communication skills. “We’ve invited Sanjay Deshmukh who would provide insight into problems faced by the adolescents and changes in body structure in that age. We would also be inviting Sachin Burghate, a motivational trainer from Akola,” he said, adding that three topper students of class IX would be selected from every school for this project.
 
 Those interested in either sponsoring the poor students or teaching them in any subjects can give a miss call on phone numbers — 9881107090, 9146672874, 9372330869, 9545700585
 
 
