RAJKOT: The state health commissioner on Friday ordered a probe into allegations of negligence by doctors and staff of Gujarat Adani Institute of Medical Sciences ( ), also known as   in   of Kutch district that has resulted into the deaths of at least 19 infants in the past 24 days. 

 A team from Gandhinagar is likely to reach Bhuj on Saturday. As many as 111 infants have died in the neonatal department of the GAIMS in the past five months, according to the hospital’s record.
 
 However, the GAIMS administration has refuted the allegations claiming that neonatal mortality rate was not above normal. GAIMS medical director Dr Gyaneshwar Rao said: “More infants will be admitted this year and mortality rate will be less than last year. I can assure that there is no negligence on part of the hospital. Any team can probe the matter. The key reason for death in majority of cases is low birth weight and pre term birth.”
 
 “The team from Gandhinagar will probe the allegation of negligence against the doctors and staff,” said Kutch district collector  .
 
 “One has to also take into consideration the geography of the district. There are very remote areas and people don’t come to civil hospital because of lack of awareness or some other reasons. They usually rush to Bhuj when the patient is at the last stage. So we have to wait for the report of probe team to come to a conclusion,” she added.
 
 Fisherman Aslam Slaya’s 45-day-old daughter died in the hospital on Monday. He had brought his child to Bhuj from Mundra last week after she got some infection. According to Aslam, his daughter was recovering well initially. But after one of the doctors in the neonatal ICU changed, his daughter’s health started deteriorating. “My daughter needed a skin specialist but she was referred to him after five days. And she died. I lost my daughter because of negligence on part of the doctors and hospital staff at GAIMS,” he said.
 
 According to hospital records, infant mortality rate (IMR) for inborn infants (those born in the hospital) for first five months current year was 9%, while outborn IMR (infants brought for treatment) was 37%. In absolute terms, out of 139 outborn infants admitted at GAIMS, 52 died. In case of inborn infants, of the 638 born in hospital 59 have died. 
 
 
