KOLKATA: Three boys and two girls who went   from the   area in   on Sunday were traced to   in   on Tuesday, the police said. An uncle of the teenager, who had earlier left with the five but returned home on Monday morning, lives in Bakhtiarpur.

 Police had said on Monday that they had some substantial leads about the five youngsters, aged between seven and 17. Lalbazar sources said they had sent the photographs of the missing children to “specific locations” in Bihar. As soon as the confirmation arrived, the cops left for Bihar with the kids’ family members.
 
 
  
 
 “All five reached Bakhtiarpur near Patna and stayed at a place called Chandni Hotel. An uncle of the teenager who returned from Sealdah station stays there. The children were headed to his place,” said an officer.
 
 Police said the 15-year-old boy who returned home on Monday was initially making up stories. “We do know the kids had boarded the 5.52pm Metro from Netaji station towards Esplande. It seems the children went to Howrah — and not Sealdah — where they boarded a train towards   in Burdwan. This boy had complained that he had a stomach ache and got off the train at Bandel. During the recording of his statement, we came to know that the children were heading towards Tarapith. Accordingly, we informed the police there,” said police.
 
 Police said the kids made the plan for days. While some carried cash, others arranged for clothes and everyday stationery items like soap, shampoo and combs. On Tuesday morning, the mother of a runaway boy and girl told cops that about Rs 4000 she had kept in her almirah has gone missing. “None except my daughter knew that I was saving the money,” she told TOI.
 
 “We didn’t find soap and shampoo at our house,” said the grandmother of another missing girl.
 
 Police said that besides all districts in Bengal, the neighbouring states of both Bihar and   were also alerted. “We had especially alerted the GRP and RPF. One of the missing teenagers had earlier fled home and was later rescued at Samatipur while on his way to Patna where his maternal uncle resides. So, we asked his family members to be on their toes and inform us about any leads,” said an officer.
 
