JOHANNESBURG: Close to 50 days after arriving here in   for what was expected to be a trial by fire, the Indian team enjoyed their first day off from all work whatsoever, soaking in the dominating and historic One-day series win over the world’s top-ranked team over the last two weeks.

 
 
 In central Johannesburg, Team India spent an undisturbed day at their hotel while in Centurion, an hour’s drive away from here, the South African team once again hit the nets for another gruelling session, hoping to make up for the series loss by reducing the margin in the sixth and the final One-dayer.
 
 “We want to end the series on a good note. The coach has a long term vision and a few ideas up his sleeve, and he has the opportunity to plan that. That will give us motivation. You still want to have pride in your performance for the country,” South African batsman Hashim Amla said on the eve of the game.
 
 India could possibly use the last One-dayer to try out unused options. South Africa, on the other hand, could call for changes in the side as a result of non-performances, with coach Ottis Gibson saying after the Port Elizabeth One-dayer that the team management would take a hard look at the defeats.
 
 “I don’t think in One-day cricket we’ve been in this position. Maybe 2008, in England, when we didn’t have a good One-day series (SA were in similar position). We’ve played decent cricket in patches but sub-par cricket from what we’re used to. Those are the experiences we’ll take. The World Cup is not far away. India are probably playing their best team. Whatever experience we get against them we will take forward,” Amla added.
 
 South Africa’s bowling remained at full strength throughout the series and yet the hosts, despite playing in home conditions, did not trouble India in the expected manner.
 
 Amla, however, is of the view that it is South Africa’s batting that let them down. “Unfortunately with the batting, we haven’t been able to string enough big scores together whenever we needed to chase. Although we haven’t made early inroads we have managed to control the back end of the game. The last 15 overs of their innings hasn’t run away from us. The guys have done decently well,” he said.
 
 South Africa, Amla added, can take some respite knowing three of their more capable batsmen – Faf du Plessis,   (first three matches) and Quinton de Kock – were missing in the series that ended up being a huge blow.
 
 That aside, he believes South Africa had decent starts and only when India’s spinners took charge that they fell apart.
 
 “The first 10 overs haven’t been dramatic. Their spinners have played a role as the highest wicket-takers in the series which is not very common. They’ve bowled well. They’ve been the difference to be honest. They’ve picked up wickets in the middle period and there’s no better way to stop the scoring,” the batsman said
 
 
