Not only have several acres of agriculture land and parts of river embankment already been eroded in   sector, but the unabated illegal   in the River   poses a serious threat to remaining parts of embankments as there is worry that these too will be washed away with continuous eroding of river bed, causing Ravi to overflow. This not only will help erode agriculture land, but will also cause havoc in the nearby villages.

 And this is happening despite claims of politicians, officials of concerned departments, villagers and activists protesting against illegal sand mining.
 
 
 On Tuesday, a tour of border village Chaharpur in Ajnala sector, revealed that residents of the area have filed numerous complaints with the district administration against illegal sand mining as it had eroded acres of their agricultural land.
 
 Interestingly, TOI spotted a sand-drilling machine and a loader tucked away in the nearby sugarcane field near the bank of the Ravi during the visit, as a couple of sand-filled tractor trolleys were seen on the outskirts of the village.
 
 However, mining officer Parshotam Kumar told TOI that the Chaharpur sand quarry had been surrendered and no sand mining activity was being carried out.
 
 As expected, when the local residents of Chaharpur village were questioned about illegal sand mining, they fumed with anger and gathered to raise slogans against police, district administration, local politicians and concerned departments.
 
 A few enthusiastic protesters immediately fabricated an effigy of twigs and grass wrapped it with a cloth and set it on fire to vent their anger and also to attract media attention, some calling it an effigy of contractors, others that of police, politicians etc.
 
 “The illegal mining is not stopping because everyone concerned is hand-inglove with others,” said a local, Randhir Singh. He said court had ordered against illegal mining, but local employees of concerned departments allegedly in connivance with police and backed by politicians were eroding the river bed which had posed threat to nearby agriculture land.
 
 He said the approach road to the village was potholed and has caved in at various places with the weight of sand-filled heavy trucks, tippers and tractor trolleys. “Even the school buses are not ready to come to our village,” he rued.
 
 “Today morning, sand-filled tippers passed through our village,” he claimed, adding that on Monday night the henchmen of the sand contractors had hidden their equipment in sugarcane fields.
 
 Another resident, Pargat Singh alleged that despite numerous complaints no action had been taken against contractors involved in illegal sand mining. He said the government should identify legal sand quarries so that everyone gets to know where the sand mining was allowed. “We have been getting threat calls from the sand mafia and we fear that false cases could be slapped on us,” he said.
 
 According to information sought through RTI on October 18, 2017, the Chaharpur sand quarry was auctioned for around Rs 8.4 crore.
 
 It’s not that the illegal sand mining activity is being carried out only in the   regime, it was the same during the previous BJP-Akali regime. “Earlier, the sand mafia used to give some share to the persons whom they feared would raise their voice, but now the contractors are not doing so,” said a local villager who didn’t want to give his name. He even showed a few sand-filled and empty tractor trolleys rented to the sand contractors for ferrying sand to selling points. As much as Rs 100 to Rs 200 per tractor trolley goes to the owner of agriculture land which allows them passage from the river bank near his field to the main road, added sources.
 
 The villagers also pointed out that sand mining was done near structures installed with poles carrying electricity wires, which supplies round-the-clock electricity to   (BSF)’s border outposts. “If river bed is eroded, these structures could also cave in some day,” said Randhir Singh.
 
 TOI also met Gautam Kumar, who identified himself as a Class Four employee of irrigation department near the River Ravi. He said his job was to keep an eye on illegal mining. “I give my report to my seniors,” said Gautam, using calculated words.
 
 Purshotam Kumar, however, claimed that the department not only keeps a check on illegal sand mining, but also takes strict action against contractors involving in the illegal activity.
 
