CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court reserved its order on revision petition filed by   leader and present councillor   on Wednesday in a case related to allotment of sheds at the Sector 26 Grain Market.   had filed revision petition against Chandigarh district court’s order whereby he was awarded 1.5 years of imprisonment. Babla moved revision petition and demanded suspension of sentence and also pleaded for his bail on which the   would pronounce its verdict on Thursday.

 The matter dates back to August 2009 when Chandigarh police had registered a case of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy against Babla, a former chairman of the market committee, and Rakesh, president of the  , for irregularities in the allotment of 69 platforms at the market. He was booked under section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating)and 471 (using as genuine a forged 1[document or electronic record]) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Babla and other accused were booked on the basis of a complaint filed by Suraj Parkash Ahuja in the form of an affidavit. After preliminary investigation, an FIR was registered on August 19, 2009. Babla was then the chairman of the market committee in Chandigarh, under whose signatures certain allotments of place for sale of vegetables in the newly-constructed shed were made with the allegation of fabrication and tampering of record.
 
 It was stated that although there were 59 licencees, 10 ineligible persons were also accommodated during the auction held on July 24 when Babla was the chairman of the market committee. Babla was booked after a shed, which had fallen, had to be re-allocated. Babla had surrendered on December 28, 2009, after a local court issued orders asking him to appear, otherwise he would be declared a proclaimed offender. A special investigation team (SIT) of the Chandigarh police submitted chargesheet against Babla in February 2010.
 
 Although the key witness G R Pillai, assistant secretary of the market committee, took a U-turn on his statement recorded with the Chandigarh police during the trial, another witness  , who was also an official of the market committee, corroborated the allegations. However, it was argued by the defence counsel that this compliant was politically motivated with the objective to ruin Babla’s political career.
 
 
