JAMSHEDPUR: With the state's most popular tribal festival   round the corner, rural youths, particularly from the tribal community and agrarian   community, have started preparations for cock fight contests.

 Apart from cock fights, bull fight is a slso quite popular in large parts of rural and semi-urban areas of Kolhan.
 
 Animal rights activists and the district administration are, however, gearing up to prevent the cruelty to animals in the name of sports and indulging in betting amounting to lakhs of rupees.
 
 Supporting the traditional sport, tribal rights activist  , who is also a functionary of Majhi Mahal Pargana, said, "Cock fight is a common sport in the rural areas during Tusu festival with male members cutting across all age groups participating in the event since time immemorial."
 
 Similarly, Krishan Hansdah, another a tribal rights worker, said, "Cock fight has always been a delightful feature of the Tusu festival in the entire state and in parts of   and Odisha that share its border with  ." 
 
 However, animal rights activists argue that inflicting injury to animals for the sake of self pleasure cannot be an acceptable thought in a civilized state.
 
 "Cruelty to animals on the pretext of centuries-old tradition and festive ritual shouldn't be allowed anymore in modern-age society," said People for Animal volunteer and practicing veterinary doctor Kishore Oza. Oza has demanded that the district administration initiates police action to check such unlawful practices. 
 
 Environmentalist K K  , who is also state head of the Indian Society of Chronobiology, is of the opinion that betting on such cruel sports should be stopped first and eventually, the sport will lose its charm among the punters. 
 
 "Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act of 1960 has adequate laws to prevent such violent sports that cause injury and killing of animals," Sharma said.
 
 Places such as Potka, Bodam, Ghatshila, Chakulia, Musaboni, Patamda, Kharswan, Chaibasa, Seraikela and Chandil among others witness the animal sport beginning mid January and apparently culminates by the month end. 
 
 "Instructions have been issued to police stations to conducted raids at suspected places to prevent such events," said Seraikela sub divisional police officer (SDPO)  . 
 
 The police stations in the Ghatshila subdivision also have received instructions to stop such practices.
 
 Not just the killer sports alone but haba-daba (a local form of gambling rampant in the villages across the areas adjoining the three states during Tusu festival) is also an issue of concern for the administration. 
 
 
