CHANDRAPUR: Four students, including a girl, from tribal ashram schools here scaled Mt  , the highest summit in the world, in the early hours of Wednesday. Kavidas Katemode (18) and Umakant Madavi (19) were the first to reach the summit at 3.25am, while Parmesh Aale (19) and Manisha Dhurve (18) followed them at 4.25am and 4.35am, respectively.

 They were part of the 10-student ‘Mission Shourya’ expedition dispatched from   to scale Mount Everest. Two others of the group, Vikas Soyam (21) and Indu Kannake, are going to make an attempt at scaling the peak on Thursday and Friday, respectively. While Umakant, Parmesh and Manisha belong to Devada Ashram School, Kavidas is from Jiwti Ashram School. Two others, Chhaya Atram and Akash Madavi, opted out due to altitude sickness and returned to Chandrapur. 
 
 The feat is more significant since the students did not even know the name of the highest summit in the world before they were selected for the task an year ago.
  
  
  is a joint initiative of Chandrapur collectorate and tribal development department. The administration took great efforts to prepare the tribal students for the Everest expedition over the last one year. A total of 50 tribal students had been picked from Borda, Devada and Jiwti Ashram schools, and were given primary mountaineering training at Wardha.
 
 The group later underwent residential training at the Chandrapur district stadium, while they stayed and continued studies at the Borda Ashram school, a few kilometres from the city. These students were then sent to the mountaineering school at Bhonegiri, Hyderabad, for training. Their underwent their final 25 days of training at the height of 18,000 feet, at the Himalaya Mountaineering Institute, Darjeeling.
 
 Out of the 50, students attaining ‘A’ grade were sent for Advanced Winter Training at Leh, Kashmir. Out of them, the top 10 students were selected for the final Mt Everest expedition.
 
 The students had started off on Mission Shourya on April 8, in the presence of finance minister   and tribal development minister Vishnu Sawra. The team left from Kathmandu on April 11, and reached Mount   on April 20 to formally begin their expedition. 
 
 The team of tribal students was accompanied by manager-cum-trainer Bimla Negi-Deoskar, who was part of the all-woman team of Bachendri Pal, the first Indian woman to climb the Everest. She had also attempted to summit Everest in 2015 from the North face, the same route taken by the students now, but turned back after an earthquake left the Everest Base Camp in ruins. 
 
 The students were also accompanied by support staff and 15 Sherpas in the final phase of their mission.
 
 Finance minister and guardian minister Mungantiwar, who had taken the initiative to send tribal students on the Everest expedition, has lauded their success. “These brave students have brought laurels to Chandrapur,” Mungantiwar said in a statement. Tribal development minister Vishnu Sawra has termed it as a golden moment in history. “It is the first of its kind expedition dispatched by the tribal department. Their success will inspire others and more such expeditions will be sent by the department in future,” said principle secretary, tribal development department, Manisha Sharma.
 
 
