Trichy: The state is home to several temples, whose intricate architecture on stone speaks volumes of the craftsmanship of the ancient Tamils. But not all of them are maintained well by the concerned departments, while some remain far away from the radar of the Archaeological Survey of India and Hindu religious and charitable endowment department. The realisation was enough for a group of enthusiasts from Trichy to take initiatives to restore dilapidated temples in the district. The group Veera Cholan Anukkan Padai, comprising 38 members, recently restored a temple from the Chola era, in Nerunjikudi village of Pudukkottai district.  Noted epigraphist Karu Rajendran who accompanied the team said the temple must be more than 1,100 years old as inscriptions found inside it date back to the period of Aditya Chola I. Interestingly, the temple doesn’t fall under the HR&CE department.  The group started its restoration work after seeking the permission of the village headman. For starters, the team cleared plants and foliage that had sprouted from the dilapidated structure. “It was mostly neem, banyan and nona trees that had grown on the structure. The trees were chopped to the roots. Holes were drilled into the roots, filled with a chemical mixture comprising 2, 4-D sodium diluted by glyphosate liquid and sealed to prevent further growth,” says Kumaravel, a member of the group.  “Seeds get deposited on the structure through bird droppings. Limestone (which the structure is made of) and rain water facilitates their germination. If left unchecked, vegetation can cause potential damage to the temple’s structure,” said R Komagan a historian and engineer. The group was formed by likeminded people who met on social media and bonded over their interest in identifying and preserving neglected monuments. It has people from all walks of life including doctors, engineers and IT professionals. So far the team has restored over 10 temples across the state by pooling money from its members. The team has also renovated the Cave Temple at Vallam in Chengalpattu district with the permission of the HR&CE department. Their efforts may have extended the lifespan of the structure, but it is not the final solution, say the members. “The temple has to be renovated with the help of archaeologists and enlisted under a government department,” says S Sasidharan, 28 an IT professional from Chennai.  Members say there are other manmade issues that need redressal. For instance, stone inscriptions in such temples are painted in the name of renovation, causing the original text to fade, says a member.  “To renovate this structure, we roped in sponsors as its renovation cost shot up to `60,000. Apart from taking up all the safety measures we had also kept an ambulance at our disposal to counter any eventuality,” said Komagan.