KOLKATA: At a time when blood ties have thinned, a group of street kids are desperately running from pillar to post, trying to prove their attachment with a septuagenarian whom they called ‘thakuma’ (grandmother). They fervently wish to be allowed to perform her rites and give her dignity in death.

 When Sabitri   died on Tuesday, ‘grandchildren’  , Laxman, Robi and Rehana — all ‘residents’ of platform No 1 of   railway station — found it only natural to take claim of the body so they could give her an appropriate farewell. But the authorities of Barasat Sub Divisional Hospital and the police pleaded helpless, bound by the law which prevents handing over the body of an unknown person to private individuals.
 
 The kids admitted Ghosh to the hospital when she fell unconscious on the station platformlast week. Their world revolved around ‘thakuma’, who showered them with unconditional love every day. In return, the street children would beg, borrow and even steal food to keep her alive.
 
 “We’ve lived here with ‘thakuma’ for the last decade, ever since I found myself on this platform. To us, she was more than a blood relative. We should be cremating the body, not some unknown hospital or policemen,” said Mithun (14), who has been arguing the case with the doctors at the hospital, the GRP and the district police.
 
 Barasat GRP OC   told TOI, “The memo from Barasat station master clearly mentions the elderly woman as ‘unknown’. The kids, dwelling in the same platform with the woman, came with it when they admitted her to the hospital. After her death, they wanted to cremate her but couldn’t show any valid document to prove their relationship with her.”
 
 Mithun said, “We had to get a document from the station master else the hospital wouldn’t admit her. Now, this ‘memo’ has turned out to be a major problem.” Barasat municipality chairman   is aware of their predicament: “The boys came to me, I sent them to the local councillor, who must also abide by the law. He couldn’t give any certificate because the boys have no relationship proof.”
 
 The kids aren’t giving up, yet. They’re lobbying with municipal officials and local politicians, confident that rules can’t come between them and their beloved ‘thakuma’.” They also demonstrated in front of the hospital morgue to stake claim over the body.
 
