By-Avinash Mohanty

 BALANGIR: The   agro polytechnic centre has been going through a hard time to complete its diploma curriculum bereft of classrooms and laboratory. 
 
 Since its inception, the four-year-old agriculture diploma institute has been running with only one classroom for 40 students in two batches. One additional classroom and a well-equipped laboratory is the longstanding demand of the people of Balangir.
 
 It is the only agricultural education institute in the district. It has successfully trained two batches of agriculture professionals and placed them well in different organizations during last academic sessions. "The present infrastructure is insufficient to accommodate trainees and imparting education smoothly," said a teacher. The polytechnic centre is one of the 10 centres run by   with an objective to provide professional education (diploma) in agriculture and allied sectors. The centre has two separate hostels for boys and girls with 30 beds each, one administrative building and a classroom.
 
 Official sources said the faculty members have to teach simultaneously two different subjects to two different batches in the one classroom. There is no laboratory to carry out practical study.
 
 An agro polytechnic official said the director of physical plants (DPP), the engineering department which develops infrastructure for OUAT, constructed an additional classroom over the old building in 2016. It is the duty of the   to hand over the building to the polytechnic in complete shape. "But now the building is in the possession of the contract agency, which is yet to hand over the classroom to the polytechnic," said an official source.
 
 A DPP official said according to the norms the contract agency is responsible to hand over the building to the user organization through the engineer in-charge of DPP at the time of payment of the final bill amount.
 
 "The DPP is neither paying the final bill nor taking over of the building. Hence it compels me to lock the building so that all the fittings will be in good condition at the time of handover," said  , contractor.
 
 "I am recently deputed to DPP office after the incumbent was suspended. This matter is not in my knowledge. I will look into the matter and solve it at the earliest," said  , sub-divisional officer, DPP.
 
 
