THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOZHIKODE: A report from the state intelligence that is learnt to have been submitted to state police chief   has said that the police force in the state have become highly politicised. Top sources in police headquarters said that a report has been received and the contents are being examined. 

 
 Sources said that the report says that the police, which are supposed to remain an organization beyond party politics, has become highly politicised in recent times. The report is said to have said that the police association meetings are witnessing political sloganeering as well as display of political allegiance by raising clinched fist.
 
 The recent district conferences of the   held in Ernakulam, Kozhikode and   had witnessed such display of political allegiances.
 
 The report is learnt to have said that even though organizations have been permitted within the police force, those are supposed to be beyond any kind of political allegiances. Associations in the police are meant for the welfare of the members. But all these have been completely violated according to the report, it is learnt.
 
 Visuals of several association members making political sloganeering were widely circulated in the social media. Such things have severely dented the image of the force, the report is learnt to have said.
 
 Sources close to the state police chief said that the police will initiate an inquiry on the basis of the report and action will be taken against those who have been found to have violated all the rules and regulations that are binding on the force.
 
 Meanwhile, leaders of the Kerala Police Association (KPA) have denied that their association is affiliated to any political party.   state general secretary P G Anil Kumar said that the association's members did not pay tribute to   martyrs at their district conventions. Instead, they only paid tributes to the martyrs from the police department, he told media in Kozhikode on Thursday.
 
 They said that they would install a martyrs' column at Vadakara and pay tributes to police martyrs as part of the KPA state meet to be held there from May 11 and 13.
 
 Minister for transport A K Saseendran will inaugurate the KPA state convention at the Sargalaya Art and Craft Village at Iringal near Vadakara on Friday. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the public convention on the concluding day, Sunday. Over 6,000 police personnels are expected to attend the convention.
 
 
