NEW DELHI: The   tussle turned more aggressive on Monday as both sides showed determination not to back down. Deputy CM   shot off a letter to LG Anil Baijal to say that   were still   called by ministers, including three important ones he had called on Monday. 

 Sisodia said because of “defiance and refusal of the heads of departments to work”, government work was suffering. This came hours after Joint Forum of Delhi Government Employees announced that they would continue to boycott the meetings unless chief minister   apologised for the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Kumar.
 
 Sisodia informed the LG through the letter that principal secretary finance Sanjeev Nandan Sahai and secretary art and culture Manisha Saxena did not attend an important meeting of the general council of Delhi Sanskrit Academy called by him at the secretariat in the afternoon.
 
 “One hour before the meeting, Saxena informed the secretary of Delhi Sanskrit Academy that neither she nor Sahai would be able to attend the meeting and asked the secretary to cancel it. I had called another meeting of the education department at 5pm to discuss matters pertaining to midday meals.. Nobody turned up,” Sisodia wrote and asked the LG to tell the officers to resume work. 
 
 He said the midday meal meeting was earlier scheduled on February 22. But two days before that, the crisis began so the officers requested postponement. Last week, following complaints of work piling up, CM Kejriwal and his council of ministers had called on the LG to seek his intervention to defuse the crisis. Kejriwal had himself tried to make peace on Twitter by saying “all of us need to work together for the betterment of Delhi”.
 
 But the LG had then commented that “steps need to be taken to remove mistrust between the government employees and the elected government so that development of Delhi and public interest do not get adversely affected”.
 
 Reminding the LG that he had “agreed in the meeting that refusal on the part of the officers to attend meetings was in gross violation of IAS conduct rules”, Sisodia said such action by the bureaucrats “amounts to gross misconduct, insubordination, and indiscipline”. 
 
 Sisodia urged the LG to ensure that the officers attended a national seminar scheduled for Tuesday, and the Sanskrit Academy meeting rescheduled to March 5. The cabinet is also likely to meet on Tuesday where CS Kumar is expected. 
 
 
