HYDERABAD: An eight-yearold girl student was found dead under suspicious condition, with blood oozing from her mouth, at her residence at Upperpally,   on Friday evening. The girl’s family, however, suspects foul play. Police are waiting for post-mortem examination (PME) report to know the cause of death.

 
 On Friday afternoon, M  , a class 3 student of a local government school, returned home while her parents were at their workplace, Rajendranagar police said. Around 3.30pm, one of the neighbours, Mallamma, saw a dog going inside the girl’s house. When   went inside the house to alert Monika, she found the girl lying on the cot. When Mallamma tried to wake up Monika, the former found blood oozing from the girl’s mouth and scratch marks on the girl’s neck.
 
 Mallamma alerted locals, who immediately contacted Monika’s parents —   and  , who work for a private company. The parents rushed to their house and broke down on seeing Monika. The parents immediately called ‘108’ service. A little later a ‘108’ ambulance reached the spot, paramedics examined Monika and declared her dead. Meanwhile, Rajendranagar police were also informed.
 
 The girl’s parents raised doubts on Monika’s death and suspected foul play. Everyday, Monika, after returning home, would stay alone till her parents return from work. Though the parents alleged that there were some marks on the girl’s neck, police said they cannot comment on the nature of injury and they were waiting for the PME report to ascertain the cause of death. On Friday night, the parents lodged a complaint and police registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the CrPC. Family members told police the girl did not have any health problems.
 
 “Investigation is being done from various angles, including to ascertain whether anyone intruded and harmed the victim knowing that she was alone at home. PME report will be key to crack the case,’’ Rajendranagar sub-inspector   told STOI.
 
 According to police, Narasimhulu’s family, which hails from  , migrated to the city four years ago in search of livelihood.
 
