LUDHIANA: Identifying routes of the city buses and autos is going to be easy for the commuters soon with the municipal corporation (MC) planning to follow a colour code to identify vehicles of particular routes. The MC is going to start road signages project under Smart City mission and on each signboard, every road will get a colour code.

 
 On the pattern of   railway line in Delhi, separate colours will be assigned to each road and people will be able to ascertain their routes on the basis of that colour.
 
 In this regard, a meeting took place at MC office, on Wednesday, where mayor Balkar Sandhu was shown the presentation regarding this project. He has given green signal to the proposal. The officials claimed that signboards will be of blue colour, but a different colour strip will be used at the end of the signboard. In case, people want to take  , they can follow the signboards with the colour specific to that road. 
 
 By next week, the foundation for the boards will be laid and colour strip will be provided on them once they are installed. The Guru Nanak Dev engineering college will help in preparing map for the Ludhiana roads, which will later be used by the tourism department for public information. 
 
 Under this project, there will be overhead gantries, shoulder-cut signboards and digital signboards, in which information related to weather, temperature and other information would be display on the screen. Around 800 small and big boards are to be installed under the project. The city mayor Balkar Sandhu said it will be convenient for general public. The outsiders, who come to the city and are not familiar with the roads, can be guided by the colours on the board.
 
 The executive engineer of building and road department,  , said, they have made all arrangements as survey of sites is complete and now from the next week, the company will start installing foundation for the signboards. 
 
 Meanwhile, one of the members of  , Rahul Verma, who is helping MC in this project said, “There are so many buses and autos on the city roads, but there is no assigned number to these buses or autos. Plan is to put similar colour strip behind autos or buses from where people can easily guess the route.” He said it will also help in keeping check on illegal autos and buses.
 
