KOCHI:   strike has flared up again at  's construction site at   bringing construction activities to a halt. The Delhi   Rail Corporation (DMRC) has confirmed that the works have stopped, delaying execution of the project. 

 "Our target is to complete the Chambakkara Bridge by the mid of March 2020, and the Metro works up to Pettah has to be completed by mid-2020. If labourers employed at the construction sites stage protests and stop work, we will not be able to adhere to the deadlines," said a DMRC official.
 
 According to DMRC officials, the prominent trade union CITU has demanded 50% representation of local employees in the construction activities. The officials said that trade unions have stopped migrant labourers from working at the sites. "The Kochi Metro works are largely depended on the migrant labourers. It will not be possible to go ahead with the work without their active involvement. DMRC execute works on a 24X7 basis and stick to the deadlines," said the DMRC official.
 
 The DMRC spokesperson said that work has been moving at a slow pace from Saturday. "Now it has completely stopped. The contractor engaged for construction of the bridge has a tough time sorting out the issue with trade unions," he said, adding that DMRC was concerned about the protest spreading to other sites along the Metro corridor.
 
 However, CITU leadership said they have not called for any protests or strike at the Kochi Metro's construction site. "The trade union leadership is not aware of this protest," said CITU state general secretary C K Manishankar.
 
 Meanwhile, CITU leaders said that there is a dispute going on between DMRC's contractor Mary Matha Constructions and trade unions. "There is an agreement between builders' association and construction union on 33% reservation for local labourers. But, when piling works were being under taken, the contractor said that they wanted skilled workforce and hence it was not possible for them to engage local labourers. The unions agreed to this, and when the piling works got over and other construction activities began the union demanded their fair share," said KN Gopinath, CITU district president.
 
 He added that when the contractor raised objection against providing 33% share in workforce, the unions put forward a demand for 25% share. "Some discussions were held on Monday. However, the contractor did not assurance in this regard. CITU has not disrupted work," he added.
 
 
