A low sense of pride in our heritage and official apathy has led to total neglect of the ancient temples at  . Hindu scriptures have innumerable references to the entire area where lord Rama is believed to have rested during his 14-year exile, before he entered the Dandakarnaya forests.

 The three small hills — Tapogiri, Sindoorgiri and Ramgiri — are dotted with small but significant ancient temples. There is also the confluence of two big rivers, Kaal and Sur, which create the Khindsi lake in this area.
 
 “The water in Ambala lake is said to have curative properties. Folklore says that King Amba got cured of his skin disease after having a bath in it,” says Prabodh Vekhende, who has studied the scriptures and suggests that doing the rounds of the temple circuit here is not just religiously significant but can bolster footfall and give tourism here a much needed push.
 
 “Lord Rama is said to have performed the shraddha of his father at Ambala lake, so there is a big rush during pitrapaksh and perhaps for this people avoid coming here,” he says.
 
 The area around Ambala lake is home to two temples, a Surya mandir and a Panchmukhi Shiv temple, which are one of its kind in the entire region. The three hillocks have a significant mythological history. There are around 12 temples on the way to gadh mandir and back, which, if visited by a devotee, equals to reading entire Valmiki Ramayan in one go, says Vekhende.
 
 The twelve temple circuit can be altered to suit the age of the devotee and the purpose behind visiting Ram Gadh. “But the most essential rituals are those of performing Abhishek at Dhrumeshwar temple at the beginning of the climb and giving daan at Ashtdashbhuj Ganesh temple after darshan at Ram Gadh,” says Vekhende.
 
 Most of the temples in this area are in a state of neglect and require immediate restoration and upkeep. “The area speaks of the rich history and heritage of Vidarbha. But lack of facilities and ignorance have kept pilgrims away from here,” he says.
 
 A Rs 150-crore package for the development of the area has been sanctioned by the state government, to which another Rs 25 crore was added by the chief minister in the budget presented recently, saud sources at the district planning department.
 
 The responsibility for carrying out restoration, preservation and development works has been entrusted to PWD, forest department, MTDC, state and central archeological departments and the Nagar Parishad of Ramtek.
 
 “The Shikhar Samiti chaired by the chief minister has approved Rs50 crore for the development work in the first phase. It will be carried out after the detailed DPR is ready,” said the source.
 
 Meanwhile, the state archeological department says that it will be taking up the restoration and conservation works of temples, samadhi and canopies around Ambala lake. “90% of the temples come under this region,” says Virag Sontakke, assistant director, state archeology department.
 
 Though development work is yet to get underway, MTDC says that it is promoting Ramtek through its website. “We have built boarding and lodging facilities at Ramtek and online bookings commenced last week,” says Hanumant Hede, regional manager of MTDC, Nagpur.
 
 
