AHMEDABAD: Setting aside  ,   and   Arjun Modhwadia met   on Tuesday, a day after high drama which saw him “missing” and then being “found” in the evening in an unconscious state.

 Modhwadia said he met Togadia to wish him a speedy recovery as “we respect our opponents in public life” despite having ideological differences. “The BJP considers its opponents enemies and anti-nationals. What the BJP did with its leaders Haren Pandya and Sanjay Joshi is public knowledge. That a leader like Pravinbhai who is associated with the BJP and the RSS has to come out in public to save his life despite having Z+ security is a very serious matter,” the Congress leader added.
 
 After meeting Togadia, Hardik said, “I do not believe Hindtuva is in danger, but I firmly believe that the chief of the Hindu organisation (Togadia) is in danger. I must say farmers are in danger and unemployed youths are in danger. Entire Hindustan (India) is in danger.”
 
 Ashok Gehlot, the Congress in-charge for Gujarat, sought security for the VHP chief.
 
 I was at the VHP office on Monday performing puja when someone told me that police are coming for my encounter, but I did not pay heed. After some time, I got a call that a team of Rajasthan police, accompanied by Gujarat police, is coming from Sola. I am not a person who would be afraid to die, but I feared its consequences in the country. So, I immediately left the office with a karyakarta (VHP worker) in an auto 
 Pravin Togadia, VHP President
 
 
 
 
 Patidar leader Hardik Patel said on Tuesday that “people knew who conspired to make VHP leader Pravin Togadia disappear”. Hardik said he and Togadia had differences over ideology, but they both fight for some common demands such as sufficient income for farmers of the country.
 
 On Monday, Hardik had raised doubts about the mysterious disappearance of Togadia. He tweeted, “Why home minister is silent over Pravin Togadiaji’s disappearance/ Why Togadiaji’s security personnel were not suspended? Why the BJP and VHP people were not tense over this incident.” Meanwhile, Gujarat Congress in-charge Ashok Gehlot said the case against Togadia was registered while he was Rajasthan chief minister. “He was arrested at that time too. But for a Z+ security protectee having to rush for his life despite being from the ruling party and having to express fear for his life anticipating an encounter is a total law and order failure. The government must ensure his security,” Gehlot said.
 
