One of the most important target organs, the bean-shaped kidneys are the frontrunners in terms of damage from diverse causes and the pioneers of  .

 The sine qua non of excretion of end products of metabolism through the urine, the   also plays many important roles in the secretory and endocrine processes.
 
 Filtering out water and with it the chemical waste products from bodily activities is its primary role. Through a complex mechanism involving filtration, secretion and reabsorption, the renal twins balance the water and waste system. Remember it’s not only the daily waste but anything that you eat and drink, including drugs that you take and powders and herbs that you chew and the vices that you indulge in (injected or sucked or eaten), all finally find their way out through the kidney.
 
 This is why your doctors caution you against taking   or over-the-counter medicines that could be potentially toxic to kidneys.
 
 Ipso facto, anything that clogs the filtering mechanism, like bad infections or crush injuries or even burns, puts an extra load on the kidney.
 
 What about systemic conditions like   and  ? The arteries perfusing the kidneys can get injured owing to high pressure and the nephrons (filtering apparatus)can suffer damage when exposed to high sugars.
 
 Indeed, the commonest cause of gradual, but definitive progressive kidney failure is diabetes and hypertension. Conversely, hypertension can result from chronic kidney damage whereby the body needs to pump blood at higher pressures.
 
 All said and done, the kidneys are resilient and will stand by you through thick and thin. Intermittent and even acute damage (severe infections, vascular shock, substance abuse among others) arising from transient medical conditions, can be withstood and one can expect full recovery if properly treated. Inadequate water intake, alcohol in excess and obesity can also insult the kidney.
 
 Whilst treatment is conventional and best left to the physician, dialysis has revolutionized the way end-stage renal disease patients live. The ‘artificial’ machine veritably mimics (only almost) the kidney as the technician draws out and circulates the entire blood from the renal failure patient over some hours through the machine, to cleanse it, but only outside the body.
 
 Which brings to centerstage, kidney transplantation. The most successful organ to be transplanted, when properly indicated and performed, can give a new lease of life to the chronic sufferer. Mandatorily and legally done from related or cadaveric donors after proper matching, transplantation has become commonplace in specialized centres. Of course, the aftercare and monitoring needs to be meticulous. Remember, only one kidney is enough to give and sustain a full lifetime.
 
 Care of general health and systemic disease, remaining active, avoiding unsupervised medication and excess artificial proteins (gyms), drinking adequate water and getting your kidney function regularly checked if you are ‘at-risk’, can save you from the different ‘Aiyaarys’ that kidney ailments may masquerade as. Kidney-Daan is a noble act of godliness, which only you can perform and bequeath.
 
 
 
 
 
