CHENNAI: Tangedco has sought nod from   ( ) to float tenders to purchase 1500MW of solar power at a cost of 3 per unit and 1,500MW of wind power at a cost of 2.65 per unit. By April first week, the tenders will be floated for solar and wind. After solar power, wind power tariff has been on the rise every year. In the last few years, investments in wind power in   has been on the rise. 

 "The base tariff for solar and wind power was decided by   (SECI) and based on that we have sought the nod from TNERC to float tenders for the coming financial year," said a senior Tangedco official.
 
 Tamil Nadu has a total wind capacity of 7,858MW and more than 1,000MW is in the pipeline after the tenders were finalised last year. Solar power capacity is around 1,800MW and more than 1,000MW is in the pipeline. While TN is far ahead of all other states with regard to wind power capacity, in solar it is behind other states.
 
 Meanwhile, more wind power companies are showing interest in investing in Tamil Nadu, which is at ninth place across the world in terms of wind power generation. "The wind power tariff has been falling below the base tariff of thermal units. Tangedco and other discoms will be happy to evacuate wind power at a tariff less than 3 per unit instead of burning coal in their own units," said secretary general of the   DV Giri. 
 
 The investments in wind power will also increase the tax revenue for the state government. "Investments in each MW will increase the employment opportunity. Each MW will give employment to at least 50 persons in manufacturing of the wind mills as well as in maintaining once the wind mill is commissioned," said Giri. 
 
 The coming year's base tariff is likely to be the lowest for wind power in the country. Last year, it was 3.42/unit. Tangedco has evacuated more wind power during the summer season in recent years. The state's wind power season starts in May but the discom started evacuating wind power in March this year. 
 
 "We evacuate not less than 450MW. In the coming days, too, we have forecast stating that there will be wind in some areas of the state," said the official.
 
 
