Ludhiana: Guru Angad Dev Veterinary & Animal Sciences University (GADVASU) circulated information about latest livestock farming technology to thousands of farmers in the two-day  , which concluded on Saturday, in the premises of Panjab Agricultutal University. 

 Ashok Kumar, ADG (animal health) Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Purnendu Biswas, vice-chancellor, West Bengal University of Animal and Fisheries Sciences, Kahan Singh Pannu, IAS, chairman, Punjab Pollution Control Board were the guests of honour on the second day of the mela. B S Dhillon, vice-chancellor, PAU and Inderjit Singh, director, department of dairy development of Punjab were also present at the occasion. 
 
 A S Nanda, vice-chancellor, GADVASU appreciated the university for its contribtuion in the field of education and research and in promoting professions related to rearing of livestock. 
 
 Harish Kumar Verma, director of extension education said a book in Hindi on ‘Zoonosis’ (siseases transferable from animals to humans) and folders on different topics published by KVKs of the university were released. He said some of our departments are providing services for rearing livestock whereas others are in the field of value addition of livestock products. 
 
 He added that young entrepreneurs can earn good returns in goat and pig farming. The mela also saw a display put up by College of Dairy Science and Technology with about 32 value-added products of milk. Department of Livestock Products and Technology displayed about 36 value-added products of different types of meat and eggs. College of fisheries displayed 10 value-added products of fish meat. The stalls received a great response. Farmers were highly enthusiastic to be trained for the development of milk and meat products and the departments assured them to provide literature and training as per their requirement.
 
 The Department of Animal Nutrition has developed a number of nutritional technologies for the dairy animals of the state, which were displayed in the Pashu Palan Mela. Good quality mineral mixture and uromin lick prepared in GADVASU were sold at economical price.
 
 A number of farmers said Pashu Palan Mela is a good platform to meet experts of different animal husbandry departments of the state, scientists of university, technical experts of different companies and financial institutions collectively. Farmers purchased university publications entitled Dairy Farming, Package of Practices, University Diary, along with different types of calendars like calf calendar and animal diet calendar for brushing up their knowledge. Farmers registered their names for monthly magazine.
 
 The judgement committee of university adjudged all the stalls. Punjab Dairy Development Board was declared first in industry category, Baani Milk Products and Godrej Agrovet were declared second, and Goodwill Hybrid Seeds, Kansal Agro feed and Mankind Pharma were declared third. 
 
 
