In the latest episode of  , Rishi tells Tanuja to stop talking to Abhishek as his intentions are not good. Tanuja says they will discuss this once Rishi is back home. The call disconnects.

 Raj meets Abhishek and apologises for Rishi's behaviour. AK says that Rishi was his friend and he knew how hot headed he can get sometimes. Raj thanks him. Manpreet tells AK that he knows the truth about the matter but he ignores him.
 
 After Myrah and Abhishek's fight, maasi asks her to support Abhishek. Myrah says that she cannot see bad things happen to good people like Rishi and Tanuja. Abhishek comes and says that Myrah's tickets have been booked and she should pack her bags.
 
 A fire breaks out at Rishi's party which makes everybody panic. Abhishek looks for Natasha. Everybody gets out but Tanuja stays in her room. When she sees the fire, she rushes and pours water on the fire.
 
 Ahana worries that Netra was inside her room but is relieved to find her outside. They realize Tanuja was the only one in her room till then. Abhishek decides to go inside and look for her. Natasha gets scared and cries.
 
 Tanuja calls Ahana from her room asking about Natasha. She ends up burning her hand in the fire. Rishi reaches home and goes in search of Tanuja. Abhishek hears his voice and decides to lock him in a room so that Rishi cannot save Tanuja. He locks him in but Rishi manages to escape through the window.
 
 Amidst the fire, a door falls on AK while he goes in search of Tanuja. He faints. Rishi sees this and rescues AK. Rishi goes out and tells everybody that he will go in the fire to save Tanuja. A scared Rano asks him to come back with Tanuja. Netra is shocked with her words.
 
 Rishi manages to break open Tanuja's door. She panics and says there is no way for them to escape. Rishi asks her to calm down. He lifts her up and goes out of the room. Myrah takes Natasha and Tanya with her. As Tanuja and Rishi try to escape, burning wood falls in front of them, blocking their way.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
