JAISALMER: For the last two years, the proposal of making country’s first Great Indian Bustard (GIB or godawan)) breeding centre at Sorsan near Baran and signing MoU have been pending. These steps will ensure measures to save the GIP that is on the verge of extinction. Now the wait is coming to end as financial department and the state government have given clearance. In the next 8-10 days the   (WII), Dehradun and the stage government will sign an MoU for the breeding centre. It is likely that the work will start soon. To increase the population of  , eggs of the bird will be brought here and hatched in a scientific manner.

 
 
 In this regard, Rajasthan chief wildlife warden GV Reddy accepted that MoU has been pending for last two years. He added that the state government had sent this proposal to the legal department and after some legal objections, certain clauses were modified and it has been sanctioned. The proposal was also sent to the finance department as without its clearance of, the Centre cannot be set up. Now, finance department has approved it. With this all obstacles have been cleared and soon the first breeding centre will start at Sorsan.
 
 Dr  , senior scientist at WII and GIB conservation in-charge said the process of setting up the breeding centre was pending at the government level and the state government was requested many times. He said conserving the Great Indian Bustard is a national agenda and the delay in setting up breeding centre will increase the problems.
 
 Jhala said it is a very important issue and all must be serious about it because very few birds are left. He said Sorsan is a good place in every regard for the breeding of the bird and godawans have been found here also. The rainfall is good here and temperature is less and there is humidity in the air.
 
 There is plenty of grass in the area and all these things are suitable for breeding of godawan. He said godawan in Jaisalmer and other areas lays eggs only once during breeding and during the season 10-15 eggs are collected which will be taken to Sorsan and hatched in a scientific manner.
 
 The chick that hatched from the egg will be given special kind of nutrition for development so that in times to come these godawans can lay 6-8 eggs at a time just like they do in other countries. If this experiment proves successful, then chances of conserving godawan will get stronger.
 
