NEW DELHI: You vowed to wake up early, go for a jog, eat a healthy breakfast and then head to work. Instead you hit the snooze button, dragged yourself out of bed, rushed through your morning routine and went to work without achieving any of the goals set the previous night.

 
 Often, our financial goals receive the same treatment. We know that spending sensibly and saving regularly ensures financial security. Yet, many of us cannot save as much as we want to. Some of us don’t have the required surplus. Others put off savings for later, prioritising immediate wants over future needs.
 
 Is there a way out? Some people set their clocks 10-15 minutes ahead to make sure they are not late. Although the individual knows that the actual deadline is still 10-15 minutes away, he is forced into action to meet the virtual deadline.
 
 Such tricks can be very helpful in financial matters too. We have identified nine tricks that can help one save more. If you are among those who find it difficult to put away money, play some of these tricks on yourself and your savings rate will definitely improve.
 
 
 
 
 Have you got your annual increment? Some of the increase will be nullified by the rise in expenses due to inflation, but chances are you will still have a higher surplus. Don’t give yourself time to adjust to the surplus. Increase your investments and put them on auto mode so that the money gets invested even before you have the chance to blow it. Commit to an SIP in a mutual fund or a recurring bank deposit, so a part of the increased income automatically gets deducted at the beginning of the month.
 
 This strategy can also be applied to one time inflows like a bonus, by committing the amount to a lump sum investment ahead of receiving it. A word of warning. Do not to commit the entire increment or bonus. Leave some to deal with rise in expenses and some for treating yourself for your hard work.
 
 
 
 
 Too many bank accounts can be confusing and difficult to manage. Yet, an extra account can be just what you need to manage your savings better. Have a separate account for all your investments and savings. Don’t use a debit card for the designated ‘saving and investment’ account. Educationist Shahnaz Pohowala divides her income into three buckets. “One is for fixed monthly expenses like  s, the second for variable expenses like groceries and household expenses and the third is for savings and investments,” she says. 
 
 This ensures that even if expenses are high in a particular month, her savings are not impacted. Mother of two Trupti Lokhande (see picture) uses a similar strategy, separating the household income and putting it into two accounts: for saving and for spending. Though she has a debit card linked with the account, she has locked it away.
 
 
 
 
 
 Ritwesh Mishra, 42, pays no heed when his company asks its employees to declare tax saving investments for the financial year. “I utilise the entire ₹1.5 lakh deduction under Section 80C and also pay house rent. But I don’t declare this to the company immediately,” says the marketing professional. As a result, his salary is subjected to a very high tax deduction at source. Mishra uses this approach to save more later. He submits his declaration with actual documents in December, by which time, the entire tax payable during the year has already been deducted. The remaining three months, Mishra gets his full salary without any tax deduction.
 
 Be careful with this strategy. If you miscalculate, you could pay more tax than required. Though it will be refunded, it could take months. Also, your takehome pay will be significantly higher in the latter half of the year. You will gain only if you invest this surplus. Spending it will not yield any benefit.
 
 
 
 
 It doesn’t make sense to deny yourself simple pleasures like a nice holiday, a dinner outing, a stylish garment or a feature-packed cellphone. But when you treat yourself to these, remember to put an equivalent amount in your savings. Treat this as a luxury tax or penalty. This works in two ways: first, the money you put away will keep growing. Second, since you will be matching the expense with investments, your shopping spree will cost you twice as much. This might discourage you from splurging.
 
 
 
 
 When paying off a long-term loan, the EMI turns into a habit. So, what do you do when the   is paid off ? The end of EMI payments is a great opportunity to redirect the surplus into savings without really noticing the difference. When you have a few payments left, decide where you want to invest the EMI amount. After the last EMI is paid, start investing the same amount in the instrument of your choice. Since the monthly outgo will not change, you will not feel the difference while your savings will grow.
 
 
 
 
 Locking yourself into an investment that doesn’t allow a quick exit might seem like a bad idea. But it is also a great way to remain invested for the long term. Put your money into long-term saving options that disallow or discourage early withdrawals. The   is for 15 years, but allows withdrawals after five years. 
 
 The 
  cannot be touched before retirement. Insurance policies have very long lock-in periods of 15-20 years, and the fear of lapsation forces the policyholder to pay premiums every year. “When exploring investment tools, customers often look for those offering liquidity. It is strange that one should want liquidity of funds when building assets for say, one’s child’s education,” says R.M. Vishakha, Managing Director & CEO, IndiaFirst Life Insurance. 
 
 Pune-based software engineer Samir Purohit is among those who understand the importance of locking into long-term investments. His strategy is to ensure that his long-term savings are not tampered with at any cost. “I invest first, and then make do with what is left of my salary. Even if this means stretching what I have left over and cutting down on spending, I wouldn’t tap into my savings. They are safe in long-term saving instruments.”
 
 
 
 
 Involving someone close to you can provide the checks and balances that you need to keep your financial decisions on track. If you can’t get on a grip on your finances yourself, get a friend or family member involved. They can serve as a regulator, keeping tabs on your spending and saving, and confront you if you veer off track. 
 
 Alternatively, you and your ‘saving buddy’ can act as friendly competition for each other. Set saving goals and try to beat them to it, or see who can exercise better control when it comes to frivolous spending. Lokhande says she stepping in to keep an eye on her husband’s finances has worked wonders for thir finances.
 
 
 
 
 Though it’s okay to indulge yourself once in a while, giving in to each impulse to spend can burn a hole in your finances. The best way to deal with this is to give it time. Just before you make a purchase, take some time off to think it over. 
 
 During this time, weigh the pros and cons of your purchase and figure out whether it’s a need or just something you want to own. If it’s the latter, think about whether it is worth the price you’d be paying for it. If you still want it in a week or so, go ahead and make the purchase. But if that item was not really needed, you will forget about it.
 
 
 
 
 
 If you are in your mid-20s, retirement seems such a distant event that saving for it doesn’t feel like a priority. To deal with this mental block, try to picture your goal clearly. Write it down, make an Excel sheet, or a mood board laying out how far away your goal is, how much money you need to save and how.
 
 Picturing your future self might also help you get started on saving for retirement. Use a photo aging software to see what you will look like in old age, and save with that person’s needs in mind.
 
