GREATER NOIDA: Two days ahead of the Uttar Pradesh Investors’ Summit, to be held in Lucknow on February 21 & 22, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development   (YEIDA) said that it has inked Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) worth nearly Rs 10,000 crore with prospective entrepreneurs. The   are expected to bring not only investment, but are also expected to generate employment for more than five lakh people in   area.

 According to YEIDA officials, 23 companies have already inked a provisional MoU with the Authority. “Talks are on with several other leading companies, which can sign MoUs for investment at the summit,” Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty, YEIDA who also holds charge of investment cell of the Authority, told TOI. “Many overseas firms from Japan, Finland, Mauritius, etc could take up land for putting up their units in our area,” he said.
 
 Bhatia further said that nearly 600 acres has been earmarked for the entrepreneurs to set up shop. “Most of this land is located along the Yamuna expressway, which connects   with Agra. The land is located in sectors 22E, 23E, 24, 29, 32 and 33 in YEIDA,” he said. “The biggest investor, Noida apparel export cluster, will invest Rs 5,000 crore for a textile manufacturing cluster in 200 acres. They will generate employment for five lakh people,” he said. “Another big investor,   snacks, will set up their food processing unit across 35 acres with an investment of Rs 300 crore,” Bhatia said. “Leading companies on biometric technology, electronic goods, furniture, medical equipment, Fenda Audio India manufacturing LED televisions, United Telelinks Bangalore Ltd manufacturing mobile handsets etc. will also be signing MoUs in Lucknow,” he added.
 
 According to Bhatia, since the announcement of the international airport at Jewar, plans for enhanced connectivity with metro rail, Eastern Peripheral Expressway, etc, YEIDA has been flooded with investment proposals. “We have had several one-on-one talks with entrepreneurs and industrialists and perused their project details besides informing them about our beneficial industry related policies in order to help them set up their establishments,” he said.
 
 
