JAIPUR: In a major setback to in-service doctors and the medical department, the   on Friday scrapped the certificate course for skill upgradation, conducted by the Rajasthan University of Health Sciences ( ), for in-service doctors in the state.

 The directorate of medical and health launched the certificate course in 2014 to upgrade the skills of in-service doctors posted in rural areas to address the shortage of specialized doctors. Earlier the course was for one year and gradually the duration of the course was increased to 21 months.
 
 The single bench of Justice M N Bhandari in his order said the RUHS cannot conduct such courses without the approval of the   (MCI) and the course was thus illegal. The court order followed a petition by Dr   and others, post-graduate medical students specializing in radiology, filed two years ago.
 
 Sandeep  , counsel for the petitioner, said the petitioners had challenged the order of medical and health director, issued on October 7, 2014 and November 11, 2014, instructing the registrar, RUHS, to conduct a one-year certificate course in seven specialties in six government medical colleges by December 2014 and prepare a curriculum for the same.
 
 The director also advised medical officers working under the department to apply for the course. A bond of Rs 5 lakh was demanded to pursue the course and a written examination was to be held at the end of the course. Successful candidates would be issued certificates by RUHS.
 
 The petitioner submitted they got admission for MD after taking the all-India entrance test and scoring high marks to specialize in radiology, which is a coveted and sought after course. They said there were only a few posts of specialization in this field as the teacher-student ratio in such specialization is 1:2.
 
 The petitioners said the doctors, who were selected under the scheme at the directorate level, were neither selected through the PG exam nor by the pre-PG merit list. The course is also not recognized by the MCI. No university can conduct a course without the approved of MCI.
 
