NAGPUR: Entrepreneurial skills became the limelight of the seminar-cum-motivational talk ‘Why startup fail?’ organized by   (LSE) on its Besa premises on Wednesday evening.

 Mukesh Ashar, co-founding team member of LSE, was the speaker of the event.
 
 Ashar said, “One of the primary reasons for the   sector going down is the lack of conviction. When an individual stops believing in his idea or takes the entire concept for granted, the downfall begins.”
 
 Speaking to a crowd of budding entrepreneurs, Ashar said, “Startups are one of the most trending topics of today but the actual success in the field depends on the work ethic of the individual. The functioning of such business voyage seems very dreamy but living up to it demands dedication and hard work.”
 
 Stating the primary reasons for the failure, Ashar said, “Idea validation from the customers or a working model that the customer could relate too are of utmost importance and the startups lacking in this aspect fail to a large extent. Another underrated aspect which most fail to look is team building. Be it in terms of loss or win, growth increases exponentially with sharing. If an entrepreneur does not invest in team building, management becomes one hell of a task.”
 
 “Adaptability is also another feature that needs to be given special attention. With the trends changing at a fast pace, keeping oneself updated is the need of the hour. The different innovations and advancements not only add to our efficiency but also contribute in reducing manpower and time,” he said.
 
 Ashar also highlighted the importance of taking risk and decisions that promise a better future. “Most people tend to discard the responsibilities and play the blame game for any problem in the business. But they fail to realize that decisions enhance our personality and failures are actually the stepping stones for success,” he added. 
 
 Deepak Maneria, co-founder of LSE, said, “Entrepreneurs need to come up with original ideas for reaching a bigger base of customers. Currently, agriculture, healthcare, education and energy are the fields that have great scope and involvement in the same will be very fruitful.”
 
 
