Mumbai: In a fresh twist to the   ( ) fraud, the   has said that it has not issued any directions to the lender to honour its commitments under the letters of undertaking (LoUs) issued to other banks in the Rs 11,300-crore   fraud case.

 This statement is likely to trigger uncertainty among other banks that had provided loans on the strength of these LoUs, which are in the nature of bank guarantees. Lenders — including the SBI chairman — had earlier said that they were not at all worried about their loans as their exposure was to PNB. SBI had said that it has a $212-million (nearly Rs 1,400-crore) exposure to loans against LoUs. Allahabad Bank had informed the   that it has a $355-million (almost Rs 2,300 crore) exposure. Union Bank has said that the outstanding exposure related to the incident is approximately $300 million (more than Rs 1,900 crore).
 
 Lenders say that if PNB denies liability, there could be cascading legal claims, with banks that had bought the loans in the secondary market suing the ones who sold it to them. “If the buyer is based in an overseas market, he might choose to pursue the claim locally, leading to the involvement of an overseas regulator,” said a banker.
 
 Meanwhile, the central bank also said that the   in PNB is a case of operational risk arising on account of delinquent behaviour by one or more employees of the bank and failure of internal controls. “RBI has already undertaken a supervisory assessment of control systems in PNB and will take appropriate supervisory action,” RBI said.
 
 Bankers say that the consequential impact in case of PNB denying claims would be extremely difficult to ascertain as there could be banks with silent risk participation. A silent risk participation agreement is a confidential agreement where one party guarantees payment while selling a  .
 
 PNB on Friday had a conference call with investors, where it is believed to have said that it will pay up. However, PNB sources said that there is no commitment yet to lenders as the bona fides have to be established first. Also, the bank said that some of the transactions are due in June.
 
 Addressing investors in the conference call, PNB CEO Sunil Mehta told investors that the bank is hopeful of coming out of its problems within six months. Mehta said that the bank was looking for gaps within its current controls and systems and was trying to fix them.
 
 
