NEW DELHI: The   on Friday told the Delhi   that it is treating the   of JNU student   as a   case on the basis of the evidence till now.

 The agency claimed it has “not found any evidence” to show that any crime was committed as it doesn’t have “an iota of evidence” to arrest or take any coercive action against the nine students who are suspects in the case of disappearance of Ahmad.
 
 It informed a bench of Justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta that an analysis of the data retrieved by the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) in Chandigarh from six of the nine mobile phones of the suspect students has not been able to find “anything remotely connected to the allegations against them”.
 
 With respect to the three remaining mobile devices, the agency said these could not be examined by CFSL as two were in damaged condition and the third had a ‘pattern lock’ which could not be unlocked. The CBI told the court that the three phones would be sent to CFSL, Hyderabad, where data could be retrieved.
 
 Taking note of the submission, the bench asked CBI to send the phones expeditiously to the lab and directed CFSL to examine these and give a report to the agency within a month of receiving the phones.
 
 Apart from comparing mobile phone location of the suspects, the CBI said it has questioned 28 students and 25 security guards of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) in connection with the disappearance of Ahmad, a student of MSc biotechnology.
 
 The bench expressed its satisfaction with the probe, saying the agency’s status reports were of “quality standards” as well as “distinct and different every time” and were “not a mechanical exercise”.
 
 Senior advocate Colin Gonsalves, appearing for Ahmad’s mother Fatima Nafees, said that information in the CBI status reports has to be provided or communicated to her and she cannot be excluded from it.
 
 He also urged the court to examine the statements of the suspects recorded by the CBI to ascertain if the agency questioned them about their movements after Ahmad disappeared on October 15, 2016 and compared their answers against the mobile phone location data.
 
 In response to the argument by Gonsalves, the CBI said the statements of the suspects will be placed before the court on the next date of hearing on July 12.
 
 
