LUDHIANA: The tussle between Ludhiana police and the   of the health department to take credit for the huge recovery of eight lakh intoxicating pills worth Rs 81 lakh is delaying the FIR, which is making it easier for the accused to escape.

 On Thursday, Ludhiana police conducted a raid at   and  , and Appy Pharma in   following a tip-off, and seized eight lakh banned tablets, including major salts like tramadol, alprazolam, and diazepam. The team of Zonal Licensing Authority was called on the spot, who seized the tablets. However, even three days after the seizure, police have not registered a case in the matter, and they are waiting for a report from the drugs department.
 
 When questioned about the delay in lodging an FIR, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-Special Branch) Surendra Lamba replied: “We are waiting for a report from the drugs department to lodge the FIR. Since police are unaware of all salts falling under the NDPS (Narcotics, Drugs, and Psychotropic Substances) Act, the police registered a case on the report submitted by the Zonal Licensing Authority of the health department. However, even after three days, the department has not submitted the report, which is delaying our work.” 
 
 Zonal Licensing Authority official Dinesh Gupta said: “Our department has already proceeded with the Drugs and Cosmetics Act in this case, for which the health department has already approached the court.” When questioned about not reporting to the police, as some salts fall under the NDPS Act, Gupta said: “The police did not ask for the report. If they are willing to lodge the FIR, we will send the report on Monday.”
 
 Importantly, the drugs department does not have the power to arrest the accused. After getting permission from the court to proceed with the case, the department issues a notice to the accused, and later, action is taken with the court’s permission after investigation. However, under police procedure, the accused are arrested after lodging an FIR. Then, they are presented before the court to get a police remand for further questioning. According to some officials, it is a tussle for credit between both the departments, as the recovery is huge.
 
 
 
 Punjab and Haryana high court advocate Baljeet Singh Kathuria said: “As all salts — tramadol, alprazolam, and diazepam — fall under the NDPS Act, the Zonal Licensing Authority has to give a report to the police to lodge an FIR, rather than proceeding with the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. Advocate Jasbir Singh Bhogal said: “The case could be proceeded on the acts in this matter. The procedure under NDPS Act is quick and harsh, while under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, there could be much delay, as a long procedure is followed under it.”
 
 
