
When our farmers marched, with flaming faith in their plea and modest hope for it to be met, they had no idea they’d end up showing middle-class India that the trick to winning the political game is to simply play it. As the farmers advanced toward the city, a friend extended the old analogy that they were like an ant that enters the eye of the elephant, and blinds it. To my friend I said, maybe the reverse was true: our farmers are the elephant, and the government is the ant that is raring to blind them. In his book Philosophies of India, German scholar Heinrich Zimmer explains that the essential premise of Gandhi’s Satyagraha was a movement of truth: by proving that British rule was an asat, an untruth, it showed how the truth might defeat it. This idea is still vigorously alive, and we have full, dazzling evidence at hand of this movement.
 
 As the farmers’ satyagraha intensified, the   government swung into damage control. Is the whole   spectacle worth the PR tamasha? It’s only a few hundred crores write-off — scamster jewellers whisk away thousands of crores....so what’s a little peanut amnesty for our entirely disenfranchised? A fixer might have gloated: This is exactly what we’ll do to annoy the hell out of the Congress, with its love for The Poors: we’ll take this away from them. Oh, wait they’re coming with Communist flags, but tell them we’re not Kerala! And if we fix this, the public is going to lap it up: the government hears you, it feels for you, it bleeds with you. This government is practically Oprah.
 
 Let’s not turn the farmers’ march into a constellation of Humans of Rural India stories with a ton of feel on social media, and nothing on the floor. Yes, it’s honourable we received the farmers with grace and generosity, we set bandage to blood and bread to lip. Yes, we are clever to create those totally dukhi graphics (a broken sandal, a smear of blood) and we must be morally okay to experience moments of internal awe that bordered on the spiritual. Congratulations!
 
 Well, not really. Because the narrative is not about what the city did for the country, but how the country came into town and showed us how to play it as it lays. Our well-meaning (but borderline condescending) avowal of the farmers’ movement is akin to what happens when Mumbai floods: we have kittens over the ‘spirit’ of the Mumbaikar, how they handed out Parle-G biscuits in the rain and took in distraught strangers who couldn’t get home when the tracks flood. Our life is not a Tennessee Williams drama where we go about counting on the ‘kindness of strangers.’ Perhaps our life begins, and we passport into political adulthood, when we ask: But why did the train tracks flood to begin with? Why do we have to rely on strangers to take us in and not the government, who we contract via taxes we pay, to watch for us? Middle-class India, aglow in its appreciation of the farmer’s movement, fails to do one thing: it is not embarrassed by its inability to collect, gather, grow, speak up in a unified voice. And right now, that voice must take on India’s cellular level scamminess. It’s not only about spineless jewellers siphoning billions of dollars but also the taxi operator in Goa who turns table on an agreed rate, it’s the private bank that makes sly ‘transaction charges’ which the banker never divulges when they sign you up, it’s the phone you bought online that suddenly went kaput and the returns policy is sketchy about ‘sudden phone death’.
 
 This flame was lit by our farmers.
 
 Loan defaulters — or money launderers, it’s not clear — would no doubt have set off the farmers’ movement. If one wealthy chor can get away with 2 billion dollars, the farmers might have surmised, why’re we hanging ourselves over a 3,000-rupee loan?
 We are not ants. We are elephants.
 
 Now, metropolitan India must carry the torch, and rail against India’s institutionalised fraudulence. What is stopping middle-class India from forbidding this nation’s elite to destabilise its economy, to puncture its morale, and worse, to lay example before our children that if you grow up to be world-class swindlers then your reward is not jail time but the exile beach at St Kitts? What the farmers have showed us — the English newspaper reading, organic oats eating, Koh Samui holiday picture posting, shaadi lehenga ordering constituency — is something simple, and profound: they have showed us justice is a way of honouring life.
 
