NEW DELHI: Grappling with cases pertaining to illegal   in at least six states, the Supreme Court on Friday pulled up the Centre for its failure to curb pilferage of natural resources worth of thousands of crores and directed it to submit a plan to stop it. 

  A bench of Justices Madan B Lokur and Deepak Gupta said it was a matter of "serious concern" and the government must frame a comprehensive policy and take effective steps to deal with the problem of   which is going on across the country. "You have to catch people indulging in illegal mining. You have to enforce the law. Tell us what are you doing about it. Natural resources cannot be free for all and you must have a policy to  ," the bench said. 
 
  The court h as passed a slew of orders over the years to deal with the problem of illegal mining in Karnataka, Goa, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Odisha, Goa and Madhya Pradesh. 
 
  Incidents of illegal mining were also recently reported from Bihar as the SC's central empowered committee (CEC) found evidence of illegal stone mining in protected forests in western Bihar. 
 
  In August 2017, the court directed the mining companies in Odisha to pay compensation of about Rs 17,576 crore for illegally extracting iron and manganese ore in the state since 2001. The court ruled that the companies would be liable to pay back 100 percent of the price of minerals mined by them in violation of law and rejected the plea of the Centre that only 30 percent value of the minerals be recovered from the companies. The Supreme Court's intervention in mining operations goes back to 1997 when it recommended that at least 20 percent of the profits be set aside as a permanent fund for development needs. In 2002, the SC said that the Aravalli mountain range in Haryana and Rajasthan is forest land and no mining should be allowed there. 
 
  Referring to illegal mining, the bench said the situation is worrisome and immediate intervention is required to preserve natural resources. "The illegal mining is happening right under your nose and there has to be some application of mind by the Centre to deal with it," the bench said. 
 
 
