A special police team apprehended a dreaded red sanders smuggler   alias   Babu, along with four others, in   in Kadappa on Thursday. Babu had remained beyond the reach of the law for the past eight years, in spite of the Andhra Pradesh police slapping at least 26 cases against him. 

 Police confiscated three cars, a sports utility vehicle and five cellphones from them, besides seizing at least 37 red sanders logs, weighing more than a tonne and worth around Rs 1.5 crore. 
 
 Acting on a tip-off, police tracked the movement of 45-year-old Babu, who is also known as Murugeshan Babu, a native of   village in Anaicut taluk in Vellore, and his associate Sudhakar, 30, of Chittoor. babu is also the Anaicut panchayat union secretary. They were caught at Nagulapalli Cross Road.
 
 Based on information by Babu, police arrested three others –  , 25, Hyder Ali, 38, of Chittoor and Shaik Munna, 38, of  . the smuggled logs and vehicles, which were kept ready for illegal transportation, were seized from them. They had been ferrying woodcutters in and out of points along the forest areas and also transporting the smuggled logs for Babu.
 
 Terming the arrest of Babu a ‘big catch’, the Kadapa police said he had been operating from 2010 and having links with international smugglers Sethu  , Musthafa of Chennai, Thiruthani Mani, Arcot Bhai of Vellore, Muniyappan of Delhi and other international smugglers operating from AP, Karnataka and TN. Police said Babu used to lure tribals from the Jawadhu Hills, Salem, Vellore and neighbouring districts into the illegal activity.
 
 Superintendent of police of  , quoting Babu’s statement said, “He confessed that he sold more than 500 tonnes of red sanders logs to the international smugglers and earned money illegally. We are probing into his links with international smuggling rings and his properties acquired through illegal means.”
 
 Meanwhile, police in Vellore said Babu’s family members had submitted a missing petition to the SP on January 22. Sources in the police department in Vellore said six cases in connection with red sanders smuggling was registered against him.
 
 
