Madurai: Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit participated in Swachh Bharat drive in Madurai and inspected a series of initiatives under the scheme, undertaken by Madurai Corporation on Monday. He participated in cleaning activities at South Chithirai Street near Meenakshi temple and interacted with the traders. He told them to keep their outside premises tidy and urged them to discard trash in the bins. Along with public and students, he inspected the model of the proposed smart city plan for Madurai and asked them to imagine how the city will look when it becomes a reality. The model along with a rain water harvesting model was displayed at South Chithirai Street for the public. The governor along with public and students also took out an oath of cleanliness. He then inspected the modern electronic toilets and water dispensing machines established at South Chithirai Street. The corporation under Swachh Iconic Place scheme had procured 5 battery operated cars – eight seaters which would bring pilgrims from railway station and bus stations to Meenakshi temple – at a cost of Rs25.76 lakhs. As part of his visit, Banwarilal Purohit flagged off the service. He also checked upon the two sweeping machines the civic body which has been procured at the cost of Rs44.56 lakhs, to keep the surroundings areas of the temple clean. Additional chief secretary to Governor R Rajagopal, Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao and corporation commissioner Dr Aneesh Sekhar and officials accompanied the governor during his visit. Earlier in the day, the governor after presiding over the convocation at MKU visited an Anganwadi centre in Alwarnagar in Nagamalai Pudukottai panchayat and distributed noon meals to children. He also visited the photo exhibition of various projects undertaken by district administration at Alwarnagar. He flagged off a Swachh Bharat campaign vehicle. Followed by that, he paid a visit to Gandhi Museum and garlanded the statue of Gandhi in the museum premises. Later at Circuit House, he was given a presentation on Madurai district, following which he interacted with public representatives, NGO members and politicians and collected petitions from them.