She might be the ultimate urban girl in many of her films, but in real life, Beautiful actress   lives in a two-acre property in Malappuram, with her parents, four dogs, a flock of ducks, chicken, rabbits and more than a dozen cats. No, it’s not a farm, but more of a sanctuary or a resort. “I can talk about my pets for hours but not everyone will understand or be interested, so I don’t,” says Aparna, with a chuckle.

 The ducks and chicken are not there for the meat and the dogs are not of exotic breeds. Most of them have been rescued and raised by Aparna and her parents, out of their sheer love for animals. To the extent that people in the neighbourhood often abandon unwanted kittens and puppies in their property. “We found a whole litter of eight stray puppies once. We kept two and handed over the others to friends. We also got four to five cats dropped here,” says Aparna. 
  
  
 The only issue she has is with veterinary care, which, she says, is lacking in Malappuram, especially for small animals. “We have to take them to Kozhikode or Thrissur for medical care.”
 Aparna started her rescue mission right from childhood, picking up injured animals from the streets. All them have their own spaces too. Buddy the Shih Tzu, is the king of the house and everyone in it lives according to his wishes, says Aparna. She got him during her stint in Bengaluru and brought him down when she returned to Kerala. “I consider him my personal pet. But since he is not friendly with the others, they are kept outside.”
  
  
 The dogs are in enclosures at the front of the house, while the cats occupy an expansive area at the back. One of the cats, Chakkara, is blind in one eye, but apparently, she is the one who rules all the others. “Because she is blind, we let her have her way. But she is very loving as well,” says Aparna.
  
  
 The ducks, on the other hand, have their own pond in the property. “We have a karinkozhi as well. Its eggs cost around `60 each. But we don’t sell them and distribute them among our cousins. The ducks have bitter fights but the dogs will start barking and inform us so that we separate them,” she says.
 
 Expectedly, there’s never a dull moment in the house with some animal or the other chasing another. But Aparna has one wish left, and that is to own a cow. “That’s my biggest wish but my parents are dead against it. They say I will keep travelling while they will be forced to take care of it.”
  
  
 
