Nagpur: More than 500 conductors of one of the two ticketing agencies — Security and Intelligence Services (SIS) India Limited — went on a day’s strike on Saturday, grounding 51 out of 113 Apli Buses, over non-payment of salary for the month of February. The strike, which affected the services for almost 10 hours, ended after assurance from NMC’s transport manager Shivaji Jagtap to release the payment by Monday. The conductors of Unity Infrastructure, the other ticketing agency, were on duty and did not allow the strike to affect the entire bus operation in the city, Jagtap said.  Sources said the NMC made payment to other agency Unity Security Force but neglected the payment of SIS only for reasons best known to them.  Representatives of SIS, while talking to TOI, said the NMC has not released their payments since December 2017 and its outstanding has crossed over Rs1 crore. Though the conductors resumed their duty after assurance from Jagtap, they threatened not to board city buses from Monday if they do not get the salary by evening.  As per red bus operators and conductors’ agencies, all the drivers and the conductors used to get salaries between 7 and 9 of every month. But the agencies have not been able to pay salaries for the last couple of months due to non-payment of dues by the cash-strapped NMC on time, the operators said. Early this month too, all the three red bus operators running the city bus services had threatened to put the brakes on the service over non-payment of dues by the civic body. The NMC had not paid them since December and the dues mounted to over Rs50 crore. Taking cognisance of a TOI report, the civic body released part-payment of Rs50 lakh each to all the three red bus operators. With no payments from the NMC, the operators have been undergoing great hardship to manage fuel for the 385-bus fleet. “Until the NMC takes initiative to make special financial provisions, threat will continue to loom over smooth operations of the city buses,” sources said.  “Even the transport department failed to open Rs60 crore escrow account,” transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde said, adding that he has directed the transport department to prepare a proposal seeking financial aid from the state government to open the escrow account.