NEW DELHI: Another low-scoring thriller, another   victory. Sunrisers defeated   by 13 runs to register fifth victory of the season on Thursday. SRH leapfrogged KXIP to second in the   standings. 

 
 
 
 
 Two days after defending 118 against Mumbai Indians on Tuesday, impressive Sunrisers bowlers bundled out batting-powerhouse KXIP for 119 in 19.2 overs while defending 133-run target. 
 
 
 
 
 Spinners   (3/19) and   (2/18) led the hosts attack and were well supported by pacers Basil Thampi (2/14) and Sandeep Sharma (2/17). 
 
 After a good start to their run chase, KXIP lost all the ten wickets for 64 runs as they succumbed to only their second defeat in seven games. 
 
 Chasing a modest target, KL Rahul and Chris Gayle added 55 runs for the opening wicket to lay a solid foundation for the KXIP. Rahul led the chase early in the innings as he smacked Mohammad Nabi for a six and two fours in consecutive balls to take KXIP to 30/0 in four overs. With couple of boundaries off Siddarth Kaul, Rahul and Gayle took the score to 44/0 after six Powerplay overs.
 
 Khan ended the partnership when he clean bowled Rahul (32 off 26 balls) in the eighth over. Three balls later, Thampi removed Gayle to keep Sunrisers in the hunt. Gayle hit two sixes and a four in his 22-ball 23 runs knock.
 
 Mayank Agarwal (12) and Karun Nair (13) steadied the chase and took KXIP to 77/2 in 12 overs. But the wicket of Agarwal to Shakib in the next over triggered a batting collapse for the visitors as they lost the last eight wickets in 7.2 overs. 
 
 Rashid trapped Nair leg before in the 14th over, before Shakib struck again to dismiss out-of-form Aaron Finch (8) as KXIP lost half of their side for 88 in 14.2 overs. The situation worsened for KXIP in the next over as Sandeep scalped Manoj Tiway and Andrew Tye in three balls.
 
 Then Barinder Sran was run out in the 17th over and Rashid came back to dismiss KXIP skipper Ravichandran Ashwin for his third wicket. Thampi clean bowled Ankit Rajpoot in the final over to take the hosts home.
 
 Earlier, young pacer Ankit Rajpoot registered his career-best bowling figures to restrict Sunrisers Hyderabad to a modest 132/6. Rajpoot (5/14) produced a dream opening spell, which included three important wickets, to dismantle Sunrisers innings after Kings XI opted to bowl first.
 
 The young pacer from Kanpur then returned back to pick up two more wickets in the final over to single-handedly destroy the home team. For Sunrisers, Manish Pandey (54 off 51) scored a fighting half-century, while Shakib Al Hasan (28) and Yusuf Pathan (21 not out) made useful contributions.
 
 Kings XI had a dream start as they reduced Sunrisers to 27/3 by the end of the fifth over with Rajpoot reigning havoc.
 
 Sunrisers top-order failed to cope up with Rajpoot's extra bounce and swing which resulted in the dismissal of captain   in the fourth ball of the innings, caught by skipper Ravichandran Ashwin. 
 
 Rajpoot's extra bounce and swing induced an edge from Shikhar Dhawan (11) which Karun Nair gleefully accepted at slips and then in his next over the pacer removed Wriddhiman Saha caught by Andrew Tye as the batsman went for a terrible cross-batted slog. It could have been more trouble for the hosts but Tye dropped a dolly from Pandey off Rajpoot's next delivery.
 
 Sunrisers received another reprieve when Shakib was caught off Barinder Sran in the next over off a no ball.
 
 Riding on their luck, Pandey and Shakib then steadied Sunrisers sinking ship with a toiling 52-run partnership for the fourth wicket that came off 53 balls. Young Afghanistan spinner Mujeeb Ur Rahman (1/17) cut short the association, getting the wicket of Shakib in the 14th over.
 
 Pandey toiled to his fifty as Rajpoot returned back in the final over to dismiss him and Mohammad Nabi to complete his five-wicket haul.
 
 
 
 
