GURUGRAM: Delay in completion of planned development work in Gurgaon’s new sectors is emerging as a challenge for residents and developers alike. While residents are forced to live in virtual islands, with no roads, shops or other conveniences in the vicinity, developers are prone to arm-twisting by local land owners.

 The   in   is one such case. Buyers have moved in, but civic infrastructure is not in place. The only approach road to the condominium, on leased land, was dug up on Monday by the land owner, leaving around 600 families cut off from the city.
 
  across 16 acres, CHD Avenue is in   and consists of 861 apartments, of which, around 550 have been occupied since 2014. But residents are still waiting for authorities to deliver basic amenities. The society’s main access is through the Sector 70-71 master road, which is supposed to be constructed by Huda. But the road has not come up, even though people have moved into the society for three years. In the interim, the developer leased out a 300-400m-long stretch to connect the society with Captain   (an internal road) that leads to Sohna road and NH8.
 
 However, on Monday morning, the land owner dug up the road, blaming the developer for not paying lease. “I’d leased out a portion of my land to provide access to the society. The agreement expired six months ago, and was not renewed by the developer. For the last three months, they did not pay rent, and since December, the developer even stopped responding to my calls,” said land owner  , explaining the reason why he dug up the road.
 
 Gaurav Mittal, director of the developer firm CHD, blamed Huda’s delay in construction of official road for the problem. “I delivered the project on time and provided all amenities inside the project as promised. External infrastructure was supposed to be developed by the government, for which we’ve paid external development charges (EDC) of Rs 35-40 crore,” said Mittal, adding that government agencies had promised to build the sector 70-71 road by last year, but nothing has moved on the ground.
 
 Mittal also said they had made a temporary arrangement with the land owner for access, but they can’t keep paying the rent for life. “We’ve already paid EDC, delivered project on time and are ready to hand over maintenance to the RWA. Why should we be forced to pay the local land owner?” he asked, adding the governmental delay in development of infrastructure has caused huge loss to his firm and damaged its brand name.
 
 Caught in the middle, the residents are the worst sufferers. “We’re living in this society for three years now, but there’s still no proper connecting road. The only road which connect the society with Fazilpur-Behrampur road was dug up by the land owner today,” said Ravi Ahuja, RWA president of CHD Avenue.
 
 Huda has been discussing the construction of the road connecting CHD Avenue for the past year. PWD minister Rao Narbir Singh had visited the condominium some months ago and assured resolution. Huda officials could not be contacted for the latest update on the status of the project. 
 
 
