TRICHY: More number of parents opting for private schools for their children in the entry level by seeking admission under Right to Education Act ( ) is affecting the admissions in government elementary schools.

 While it is mostly people from economically weaker section who admit their children to government schools, they see RTE as a medium to finally realise their dream of admitting their children to English medium schools. In the midst of falling student strength, government elementary schools say that they could get only few children from the neighbourhood.
 
 “Though we tell them that our schools too have English medium, not many are convinced. They want their children to study in private schools,” said an elementary school teacher from  .
 
 Over 4,500 parents in Trichy have applied for the 1,796 seats available under RTE in the 116 private schools. This is the first time where the applications received have been double the reserved seats. While trends reflect the desperate attempts by parents to get their children in to private schools, experts say parents especially from urban areas believe that only private schools can ensure the holistic growth of their child.
 
 Schools education department has been asking the teachers in government elementary schools make conscious attempts to identify children over the age of five residing near the school and get them enrolled. However, there is less patronage for government schools, they say.
 
 “The state government has allocated Rs 300 crore to reimburse tuition fee to private schools for enrolling students under RTE. This would only develop private schools at the cost of government schools,” said a senior official from the inspector of matriculation schools.
 
 Countering this argument V  , state youth wing secretary of   said, “Rs 300 crore is nothing for the state government, when state budget for education is over Rs 27,000 crore.” If efforts are made to improve quality of education in government schools with required infrastructure, the focus would automatically turn towards government schools, he said.
 
 Educationist Prince   says that by reserving 25 per cent of seats in private schools, government is ensuring the systematic closure of 25 per cent of state-run schools every year. The government will not have to provide mid-day meal, books and uniform, thereby it can reduce the expenditure on school education.
 
 Babu suggests that all government and corporation schools must be declared as neighbourhood schools under RTE. If parents switch to other schools, then their reasons should be taken into account and rectifications should be done, he said. He also rejected the claims of private schools providing quality education, saying that it was just a general perception prevalent among parents. 
 
 
