CHANDIGARH: The UT police, which hardly leave any opportunity to call itself “smart police”, have been functioning without some of the basic security gadgets used in daily policing. Bought for over Rs 91 lakh, four explosive, narcotics and chemical detectors have been lying unused in the department as they require repair, and police department does not seem to have time for that.

 While raising a concern over the non-use of these detectors, a UT police department   for 2016-17, accessed by TOI using Right to Information (RTI) Act, said these “equipment have not been working properly and lying in faulty condition since 2014.”
 
 The audit report stated that the police department had intimated the firm from which it purchased the equipment, but no record was available to show that the detectors were got repaired from the firm and in working condition. According to the report, though the detectors were non-functional, tenders were still floated for buying accessories.
 
 “The scrutiny of auditors has also revealed that the tender for supply of consumable items to be used with explosive, chemical and narcotics detectors were called by the police department. The re-tender for chemical detector was made, which signifies that the consumable items were being purchased for faulty instrument,” the report said.
 
 “It is understood that the value and efficiency of the above instrument will decrease with the passage of time,” the report added.
 
 Auditors have also mentioned that when they raised this point, police department did not submit any reply to them.
 
 BOX:
 
 Bought in 2014
 
 The UT police department had purchased four explosive, narcotics and chemical detectors in 2011 from a Mohali-based firm at a total cost of Rs 91.03 lakh with annual maintenance contract from July 2014 to July 2017.
 
  Helpful during rallies
 
 These three types of detectors – explosive, narcotics and chemical — can detect all chemical warfare agents and narcotics substances. The equipment can prove useful during political rallies, gatherings and other big events. Cops were seen using this equipment during the time of   at crowded markets to detect explosives. At the time of purchase of the equipment, former DGP   had said that Explosive Vapour Detection (EVDs) had been used during the Commonwealth Games in New Delhi and the 2011 world cup semi-final match between India and Pakistan in  .
 
 
 
