Just hours after ' ' was cleared by the CBFC, the   threatened to vandalise all cinema halls showing the movie. They also demanded a complete ban on the film and threatened to "set ablaze" cinema halls screening it. Over the years, in the clash between protest groups and filmmakers, it's cinema halls that have been bearing the brunt. From 'My Name Is Khan' and 'PK' to 'Ae Dil Hai Mushkil' and 'Padmavati' - whenever a film has offended any group, cinema halls screening the film or even displaying its poster have had to deal with violent protestors and vandals. 

 
  
 
  
 
  A major reason being this continued hooliganism is the silence of exhibitors. From biggies like PVR, INOX and Wave to single screen owners – all have refused to come on record to talk about the issue. However, the multiplex staff members and theatre owners tells us that they are gearing up to deal with vandalism - with better infrastructure, hiring bouncers and police protection. 
 
  
 In November, members of Rajput groups barged into several theatres across the country that had put up 'Padmavati' posters, destroyed property and threatened cinema owners.
 
  While the police in several cities had warned of strict action against troublemakers, no arrests were made in most cases. The same hooliganism was repeated in December, after ' ' offended a certain group. A number of theatres across Rajasthan, which were screening the Salman Khan-starrer were vandalised. 
 
  A manager at a Delhi multiplex says, "There's nothing new in it, every year some movie is accused of hurting sentiments. After which protestors barge into theatres, damage furniture, break glass and rough up the staff."
 
  The multiplex manager adds, "When I started my career in 2005-6, there was an incident in Mumbai when a group of Shiv Sainiks purchased movie tickets and entered the theatre, and when the film started, they broke the screen and assaulted moviegoers. Now the protesters don’t even bother about buying tickets, and just barge into halls. This is the new form of protest. Earlier they used to burn buses, now they destroy cinema halls."
 
  A multiplex manager in Noida says, "The situation remains volatile. Every time a film offends some group, we bear the brunt. What worries us is that it has become an acceptable form of protest."
 
 
  
 
  
 A Delhi-based distributor says, "In malls, the multiplex is usually on the top floor. Which means there is a chance of stopping protesters from barging in and breaking things. Par single-screens mein security kam hoti hai toh wahan attack pehle hota hai." 
 
  However, exhibitors rarely take action. When protesters warned cinema owners in Gurgaon and Noida against screening 'Padmavati' recently, while Noida multiplexes didn't register any complaints, an FIR was filed in Gurgaon. When asked if any action was taken against the vandals, the owner of a Gurgaon cinema hall told us that pursuing these cases is a waste of time. He says, "These protesters barge into cinema halls in groups, break things and leave. Even if we complain to the police, they won't search for them or will jail them. So there's no point in filing an FIR. Instead, we ask for police support. We don't pursue the case because that might put more shows at risk." 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 The chances of vandalism at single-screen are higher than at multiplexes, however the losses incurred by multiplexes are higher. The security in-charge of a multiplex chain says, "Vandalism leads to a lot of property damage and cancelled shows. The only option that we have is to change the infrastructure of the halls. Since vandalism seems to be the new form of protest, we are changing our infrastructure to make theatres less vulnerable so that losses can be minimised."
 
 
 
  
 
  The manager of a multiplex in Gurgaon says, "In one of our monthly meetings, there was a suggestion to hire bouncers. Till now, the standard practice at cinema halls has been to station the staff at the entrance to check tickets. Now, we are considering this suggestion seriously, and if these protests continue, we will hire bouncers to guard the entrances."
 
 
 
  
 
  
 We asked exhibitors from multiple states about why they haven’t taken a collective measure or asked the government or the police for help to deal with protesters. A Mumbai-based single-screen owner says, "It's a business, and with the existing rules and regulations, the cinemas are not making much profit. They don’t want to make things worse by filing complaints. There has not been any effort to come together and criticise a particular incident, and it will not happen anytime soon. Most cinema owners think that if they voice their opinion against a particular group, they'll lose a certain section of the audience, which they don’t want."
 
 
  
 Madhur Verma, DCP and PRO, Delhi Police, says, "In Delhi, we gather inputs in advance about protests, and then we inform the district police to make arrangements to avoid any disturbance. Whenever we get an input that there are chances of vandalism or protests in Delhi's cinema halls, we call exhibitors for a meeting and tell them to beef up the security and not allow anyone inside without proper checking. Also, we have noticed is that in Delhi, protesters usually want to symbolically register their protest. They usually disperse when we threaten them with arrest."
 
 
  
 
  
