GANDHINAGAR: The   government’s two year old proposal to have the Mandal   Special Investment Region (MBSIR) a ‘National Investment and Manufacturing Zone’ (NIMZ) has not yet been approved by the government of India. 

 Earlier, the Centre had asked Gujarat to make certain changes in its proposal, which Gujarat agreed to. However, the proposal has not yet been approved.   was earlier declared an NIMZ, but it faces a lot of technical challenges.
 
 On May 26, 2016, the Gujarat government proposed to the government of India’s Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion(DIPP) that MBSIR be given NIMZ status. The DIPP told the state government that the norms require a minimum of 30% of the notified area be reserved for industrial activities. At the MBSIR, only 18% of the area is reserved for industrial activities. At the direction of the DIPP, the Gujarat government agreed to the revise the reserve area to 30%. Despite this, more than two years on, the MBSIR is yet to get NIMZ status.
 
 A senior officer privy to the development said, “As the town-planning and zoning takes a lot of time, the project is getting delayed. We had to revise our plans because of faulty planning and as NIMZ standards were not followed. In September 2017, we got in-principle approval for NIMZ status, but have not got final approval yet. If the Centre clears the proposal, the state government can expedite the work.”
 
 NIMZs are envisaged as integrated industrial townships with state of the art infrastructure, land use on the basis of zoning, clean and energy efficient technology, social infrastructure, skill development facilities, to provide a productive environment for persons transitioning from primary to secondary and tertiary sectors.
 
 The Centre provides viability gap funding (VGF) to NIMZs, this helps the state government get long-term soft loans from financial institutions and external commmercial borrowings. 
 
 Like SEZs (Special Economic Zones), NIMZs have also been promised several financial and other incentives.
 
 
