NAGPUR: In a major first, the   ( ) introduced it’s most comprehensive youth basketball initiative in the City of Oranges on Friday.

 
 A fortnight after the NBA India conducted a day-long training session for the sports teachers of the region, the American association that organizes world’s best basketball league made the school students in both the boys and girls’ category work out in a Skills Challenge at the twin courts of Nagpur University, Ravi Nagar.
 
 NBA’s maiden grass-root initiative in Nagpur that applies the values of basketball to positively impact the lives of Vidarbha’s boys and girls is a part of the   programme.
 
 Around 900 students, mostly the first timers, from 50 schools including a couple from   and Umred tested their skills on the basics of basketball. The skills challenge conducted by a young and energetic Spanish coach Xenia Esteve, who joined NBA India in December last year, explained what the kids have to do in the five specially designed stations for the workouts. All the participants were made to go through the five challenges to test their skills on the footwork, lay-up, passing, dribbling and hotshot stations. After a player clears all the five skill sections they were given the participation certificate and depending on their performance 24 best players were respectively awarded.
 
 While explaining the details about the event, Xenia told the gathering of kids and coaches about the NBA India initiative. She said, “The Jr NBA is the league’s youth basketball participation programme that provides a fun environment for kids to learn the fundamentals and values of the game and the skills challenge is an initial initiative in that process.”
 
 Xenia added: “The Jr NBA is focused on helping grow and improve the youth basketball experience for players, coaches and parents.”
 
 As the league continues to expand in India, the NBA India’s maiden initiative was conducted in three age categories for boys and girls below 16 years. The programme, which was free for all participants, includes individual skills competitions; a timed circuit-based challenge incorporating dribbling, passing and shooting.
 
 Like many first timers, one of the local sports teachers   from the Mahatma Fule Vidyalaya, Milind Nagar, who picked the basketball in his hands for the first time, liked the sport so much that he prepared special T-shirts for his school kids and was seen learning as well as participating himself in some of the passing drills on the court.
 
 While many basketball playing schools gave a thumps up to the NBA, experienced basketball coaches, Nilay Vitonde and CP James brought a handful of their school students from Wardha and Umred and all got themselves involved in the fun environment.
 
