JAIPUR: The lone   at Mukundra Hills Tiger Reserve (MHTR), MT-1, might soon have a companion. Softening its stand against the state government over relocation of a tiger at MHTR, the   ( ) is expected to give a nod to the proposal of shifting a tigress for MT-1 that was moved to the reserve on April 3.

 According to sources in the forest department, a tigress would be shifted to MHTR this month. After a change of guard at NTCA, in a recent meeting between the Chief Wildlife Warden (CWLW) GV Reddy and the NTCA members, consent was given for the relocation of a tigress to MTHR from the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve. 
 
 Sources said that a detailed project report as sought by the NTCA, has been sent. ``The in-principle approval accorded by the technical committee of this Authority for re-introduction of tigers at the MHTR, which was received earlier, was in abeyance for want of compliance to recommendation made by a Committee constituted by this Authority. However, issues were sorted out during the meeting and we hope that the formal approval will come next week,’’ said a senior officer of the department.
 
 The NTCA had sought a detailed report from the Chief Wildlife Warden after the relocation plan was changed from Selzar Range to   without a prior intimation. “ In a recent meeting at New Delhi, detailed discussions occurred over the change of location. Moreover, justification was also given to NTCA for not signing an memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Wildlife Institute of India (WII) before shifting MT-1,” he added.
 
 The senior forest official reached for a meeting soon after former chief secretary NC Goel had sent a reply to the NTCA letter dated April 6, 2018, which had raised objections. In the letter, (former) additional director general (Project Tiger) and member secretary (NTCA) Debabrata Swain had asked the chief secretary of Rajasthan to take disciplinary action against the officials for violating the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 during the translocation of tiger to the (MHTR).
 
 However, former CS NC Goel in a letter (dated April 25, 2018 ) to additional director general of NTCA Dr   invited NTCA for a meeting to resolve the issue amicably. “ Best would be that we meet, discuss and thrash out whatever is amiss on either side. The state government and NTCA have a common objective of conserving tiger habitat. With the change guards at its end , it should be possible for NTCA to give a fresh look to the whole matter and come to a shared understanding of the challenges and opportunities that MHTR offers,” reads letter 
 
 The letter also indicated that the state government cannot let the relocation of two or three tigers from Ranthambore to Mukundra get stalled or jeopardise because of some misgiving at some level. 
 
 
