NEW DELHI: No transgender student got   in Delhi University’s   in the last  , an   to a   revealed. In fact, university officials said that the number of applications under the “other” gender category had been negligible, though they pointed out there were 83 hopefuls who applied last May.

 Three years ago, DU allowed those seeking admission to identify themselves as of the male, female or “other” gender. Not many third-gender students have applied, and no one gained admission. Explaining last year’s figure of 83, the admissions committee explained that many students clicked wrongly on the “other” category or made a mistake while selecting their gender and came later for correction, which is when they were sometimes put in the “other” category.
 
 
  
 Despite the door being opened to transgenders, studying in DU as one requires a steely will against the taunts, stares and ridicule. Aarav Singh, now 21, quit studies in 2014 after sitting for his first year BA (Pass) exam at the School of Learning because the students and faculty at this study centre, a girls’ college, could not get past the female-to-male transgender’s appearance. “The teachers used to tell me to go to a boys’ college because I didn’t look like a girl and the girl students made rude comments about my features,” said Singh. “I couldn’t take this, so decided not to apply for admission in the second year.”
 
 It is not just the ridicule they face, but also the admission process itself that is a deterrence to transgenders. Few members of the transgender community apply, almost none get entry, disclosed professor Rajesh, who was part of the 2013 Union ministry of social justice’s expert committee looking at issues related to transgender education. The professor said, “Education may not be transgender friendly, but DU is like a mini-India and it must reach out to these students.”
 
 Rajesh suggested steps such as reservations for LGBTQ students along the lines of the OBC quota could be considered. “DU can also create a special cell for transgenders, have special student programmes and NCERT could add content about them in its curricula,” he said.
 
 Rajesh Tandon, dean of students’ welfare, claimed, “We accept all applications and anybody who clears the cut-offs will get admissions in DU.” But as JP Dubey, former dean of the department of adult, continuing education & extension, point out, anonymity is important to transgenders and that is why those who got admission opt mostly for the School of Open Learning.
 
 
