NEW DELHI: In fresh raids conducted on March 7 and 8, the CBI said it recovered documents, including air tickets and mobile phone bills of   and his family members which were paid by   ( ), a company which has been a conduit for alleged bribes and with which Karti has denied any links. 

 The CBI and the   have alleged that ASCPL was “indirectly controlled” by Karti.
 
 The CBI is investigating Karti for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs 3.10 crore from   to facilitate Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) approval when his father P   was finance minister during UPA rule.
 
 Apart from air tickets and mobile bills, the CBI said it had recovered four hard disks and documents which were being analysed.
 
 The agency will soon send letters rogatory (judicial request seeking information from foreign countries) to Singapore, Greece, Spain, Mauritius and the UK to know about the money trail of ASCPL and other companies.
 
 Meanwhile, CBI sources told TOI that Indrani Mukherjea, the prime witness against Karti in the INX Media case, not only stood by her bribery statement when she was confronted with him on Sunday but also got angry when Karti refused to own up.
 
 Sharing details of Karti’s encounter with Indrani in Byculla jail, a top CBI source said, “During four hours of confrontation, Karti repeatedly tried to discredit her statement and denied having met her or having discussed any bribe offer to help INX Media get FIPB approval. At one point, Indrani literally shouted at Karti for lying to her face.”
 
 “I met you and your father and we had an agreement to pay $1 million to you. You are lying,” the source quoted Indrani as having told Karti.
 
 The CBI intends to bring Indrani to Delhi and once again confront her with Karti, who continues to deny the charges against him.
 
 However, CBI sources said whenever he was confronted with documents showing his links with ASCPL and its directors, his email conversations with them or other evidence, he was usually “taken aback”.
 
 Sources said when asked why ASCPL directors had bequeathed their shares to his daughter, Karti didn’t deny the fact but told the officers to “ask the company directors about it”.
 
 Asked about the latest searches, a CBI spokesperson said they received information 3-4 days ago that some vital documents were lying at ASCPL’s head office at Nageswar Rao Road, Chennai, and it was raided.
 
 
