GHAZIABAD: Two criminals who attempted to rob a senior executive of a   showroom were arrested following an exchange of gunfire with police in Indirapuram on Monday. The men, one of whom was shot in the leg, told cops that they had planned to rob a bank in Indirapuram using the bike of the executive which they tried to snatch from him at gunpoint.

 The crime occurred on Pushta Road abutting Ahimsa Khand 2 at 3.30 pm when   was returning to his house in Pratap Vihar. Bhardwaj was riding a Royal Enfield motorcycle from his office in Sector 63 of Noida.
 
 Bhardwaj told TOI that the two men began to follow him on Pushta Road as he entered it from NH-24.
 
 “After a certain distance, the men who were on an Apache motorcycle overtook me. Both of them had handkerchiefs tied around their faces. They blocked my path with their bike and the man riding pillion got off the bike and walked up to me. He pointed a gun at me and asked me to hand him over my motorcycle. Since there were cars and other vehicles zipping past me, I took a chance and grabbed his hand,” said Bhardwaj.
 
 Bhardwaj put up a fight with the man and in the scuffle his bike fell down on the road. “The man was trying to snatch my mobile phone too. Vehicles began to slow down as I shouted for help. The attackers panicked and fled. I soon called the PCR,” he said.
 
 Police said a quick response team reached the spot immediately. “The men were intercepted a little distance away on Pushta Road itself. Both were armed and fired at cops. They fired three rounds at the police team but were nabbed after one of them got hit in retaliatory firing,” said Akash Tomar, SP (City). A constable, Akhilesh, sustained a bullet wound on his right arm.
 
 “The Apache motorcycle did not have any registration number. The men confessed that they wanted to rob a bank in Indirapuram using the victim’s bike. Cops on patrol duty in Indirapuram on Monday claimed to have seen the men during the day in front of some banks,” he said.
 
 The accused, identified as Mohsin Saifi and Aamir, are in their mid-20s. Mohsin, who sustained a gunshot wound on his right leg, has been admitted to Max Hospital in Vaishali along with constable Akhilesh where they are now stable.
 
 
