KOCHI: Last December, a 37-member team comprising students and teachers of   School of Architecture went to the tribal hamlets of   to study the architecture styles and engineering techniques used by the indigenous population to build their houses. Though in the beginning, they primarily focused on the architectural aspects, later on, they decided to delve into the lifestyle and culture of the tribes such as Gowdas, Adiyas and Kattunayakans residing at Wayanad.

 During their study they found out various facets about the tribal settlements and decided that they should share it with the rest of the world. This eventually led them to organize a two-day exhibition titled ‘Gothrakkazcha,’ which began at   on Saturday.
 
 “When we reached there, we came to know about the rich culture, traditions and customs followed by the tribal communities, which we had never came across. We were fortunate to see the traditional housing in the tribal hamlets which are decreasing in number as the government is building concrete houses for them. In the exhibition we have made more than 20 sheets about how the tribespeople build their home, including the materials they have used for the constructions, said Haritha G, who drew sketches of the houses of the Gowda tribal communities.
 
 Apart from the architectural and cultural aspects the exhibition focuses on the social aspects including family life and the bond shared between the communities there.
 
 A black and white photograph of a mother holding her child shot by  , a first-year architecture student at SCMS, got rave reviews. “While we were visiting each houses, I came across numerous faces which were unique but when I saw a child with his mother I decided to take the picture,” said Blessy.
 
 Elsa Mary, a literature student, who came to the art gallery to see the exhibition said that it was an extremely informative and enriching experience.
 
 “The sketches, portraits and photographs of the tribes that are on display at the gallery are presented in such a way that one can easily understand the historical, cultural, social and geographical aspects of the tribal settlements in Wayanad at the first glanceitself,” said Mary.
 
