HYDERABAD: The Telangana government’s flagship and dream project   (KLIP) will become a reality soon. The first pumping station of total 19 pumping station will be charged at   in July which will not only fill up tanks, but also stabilize the ayacut of Sriramsagar project. After starting pumping at Medigadda, districts such as Siddipet, Medak, Yadadri would benefit by December and Ranga Reddy and Medchal districts by February and March 2019, irrigation minister T Harish Rao told TOI.

 
 The minister said KLIP is an engineering marvel and unique project not only in India, but in Asia. “The government is procuring motors from Finland, pumps from Austria, static frequency machines from Germany, pumps and motors from China and other motors from BHEL. Civil works are being done by Indian companies,” he said.
 
 
  
 
 “The Central Water Commission chairman too praised the project as an unique project and his engineers too visited the project site,” he added.
 
 Harish Rao said generally, irrigation projects are designed to draw water through gravity. But Kaleshwaram is designed to lift water through motors and lifts. While Godavari is 100 metres above the sea level, water is being lifted 620 metres at Konda Pochampally and 370 metres at Mid Manair.
 
 He said some people were making a hue and cry about the project cost being as high as ₹80,000 crore. ‘I say, KLIP is a mammoth project and is in fact a combination of 15 irrigation projects in terms of technology and creation of ayacut. Kaleshwaram will irrigate 36 lakh acres that will include creation of 18 lakh acres new ayacut and another 18 lakh acres stabilisation of ayacut in seven to eight districts.
 
 While Polavaram has one reservoir and a barrage, KLIP has three barrages at Medigadda, Sundilla and Annaram. “Generally, any irrigation project takes several years to complete. We are going to witness the first results of KLIP in less than two years,” Harish Rao said.
 
 Admitting that lift irrigation projects need more power, he said the project cannot be seen as one that benefits only farmers. “The projects will have multiple benefits. If three barrages are completed, there will be water in the tanks and canals covering a distance of 170 km for 365 days,” he said.
 
 “When I interacted with people in a village near the project site, they complained of dust from lorries and even questioned me about its benefits. I told them, once the water comes, there would be abundant fish in the village tank and canals,” he explained.
 
 Elaborating benefits of projects such as KLIP, he said farming with surface water is more useful instead of water sources like borewell and ground water as water contains flouride and there will be 20% more agriculture yield. “Even scientific studies revealed Godavari water has more yield than Krishna as Godavari originates 500 km away from the state and travels hundreds of kilometres,” Harish Rao said. Once the project is in place, Godavari water will be available throughout the year over a stretch of 175 km length and 1.5 km width, he added.
 
 “Some political parties criticise us saying redesigning of irrigation projects was done for political purpose, but projects are designed keeping long-term benefits in mind. In fact water was one of the tagline for Telangana movement,” he said and added that   which was ruling for 10 years in united AP could not get clearances for   and Chevella project from the Centre and   government. But CM KCR managed to get environmental and forest clearances from 10 Central departments and also hammered out agreements with Maharashtra pertaining to KLIP within two years.
 
 
