BHOPAL: Seven-year-old Vidya, who was found abandoned in   district in 2014, looked chirpy since morning on Saturday. The kid got a parent from   on Saturday. Forty-year-old  , a single woman, who came from Spain went to Chhindwara, to take her after completing all legal formalities.

 
 The girl, who was found abandoned in Junnardeo area of the district on February 8 four years ago, was rescued by local administration. Later, the kid was handed over to  , a specialised adoption agency, working in Chhindwara town.
 
 “Vidya has been living here since then. She completed class I and was promoted to class II. We are quite happy for her. She is getting a parent. She got ready herself in morning as she knows her mummy is coming to take her home,” Vinita Kushwaha of the Navjagrati Mahila Mandal told TOI. A couple of months ago, another girl child from the same agency, was adopted by a couple from Italy. Adoption of children from the state by foreigners, has gone up from one child in 2014-15 to nearly 30 children in 2017-18.
 
 Kushwaha said, “Vidya had interacted with parent over phone thorough video calling. Irene wanted to adopt a girl from India because she feels India is a peaceful place.”
 
 “All formalities have been done through the   (CARA) — an agency working under the ministry of women and child development— and then the court. We do not have much say in this,” Kushwaha said. “Our responsibility is to follow the instructions of CARA and ensure parents do not face any problem,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 Irene works with a government department in Avila, Spain, said Jamal, a representative of Spain-based adoption agency, Ninios Sin Fronteras, which facilitates adoption of children from India. “Vidya’s pictures were shown to Irene through us in Spain and she decided to adopt her. We helped her complete all the formalities,” Jamal said.
 
 Vinita Kushwaha and other members of the Mandal, who took a liking for Vidya, are now happy for her well-being. “We were happy to see reports how parents and child are adjusting with each other, Kushwaha said.
 
 “We get reports of her well-being from time to time as the government agencies do follow-ups on such reports,” she said.
 
