PANAJI: Three-and-a-half months after the   quashed the renewal of 88 mining leases in Goa and ordered the stoppage of operations, the state government has forwarded three legal opinions to the attorney general of India to decide on the final line of action in the case. The move comes days after chief minister  , who is undergoing treatment in the US, gave the state government a go-ahead to file a review petition in the case. 

 
 The state had sought an opinion from senior counsel  , who had said that it had 'no chance' of obtaining a favourable verdict if it filed a review petition. The other two opinions received by the state government are from the   ( ), the main trading body of mine owners, and the mining workers union. 
 
 "We have forwarded the three opinions to the attorney general of India, who will take a final decision whether or not to file a review petition," a senior government officer said. 
 
 Union minister Nitin Gadkari had recently said that the Union government would obtain opinions from all concerned ministries and stakeholders and forward them to the attorney general. The case pertains to a February 7, 2018 order of the Supreme Court, which, apart quashing the renewal of 88 leases, ordered the state government to stop all mining operations on March 15. 
 
 Thereafter, in March, the state government sent a draft to Salve, seeking his opinion. It included the history of Goa's mining industry, various court decisions concerning the industry, details about how economic activities will be affected, and other pertinent information.
 
 The state government had also sought legal opinion from advocate general Dattaprasad Lawande, who said the state has "no option other than the auction route".
 
 Members of the CAC - PWD minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar, TCP minister Vijai Sardesai, and urban development minister Francis D'Souza - were unanimous in their opinion that the state should file a review petition to allow mining till alternative arrangements are made. The CAC was constituted to run the affairs of the state in Parrikar's absence. 
 
 The GMOEA, too, had taken legal opinions from three lawyers. A senior government official said that the GMOEA obtained a 'favourable' opinion about approaching the court. 
 
 The state had sought an opinion from senior counsel Harish Salve, who had said that it had 'no chance' of obtaining a favourable verdict if it filed a review petition. The other two opinions received by the state government are from the GMOEA and mining workers union 
 
 
