CHENNAI: The multi-model based operational wave forecasting system of Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services has indicated that southern coastal districts of  , especially Kanyakumari and Ramanathapuram, are likely to experience high-energy swell waves on Saturday and Sunday. Fishermen and coastal population have been advised to be cautious.

 INCOIS officials said it was unlike the usual wave event that is normally experienced during cyclones. “In the present case, the swell waves come from very far off areas in the southern ocean. There is high wave period and the waves are very energetic. It will cause an unpleasant situation like inundation of low-lying areas. We explicitly make it clear that this is not anything like a tsunami, but will cause flooding in low lying areas,” a senior scientist told TOI. Discomfort is expected in the Gulf of Mannar region since the other side of the   is sheltered by Sri Lanka. Wave surges are expected between Kolachel and Ramanathapuram.
 
 In a communique sent to the state government, the agency said the sea would be rough near the shore and the low-lying areas would experience the surges intermittently from 8.30am. on Saturday to 11.30pm on Sunday due to the high period swell waves. The waves could go up to a height of 11.5 feet. “As the coastal areas will experience the effect, plying of boats could be avoided during those two days. The boats could be anchored at a distance from each other to avoid any collision and leading to damage,” Revenue administration and disaster management commissioner K Satyagopal said. Those at sea have been warned not to come to the shore as the waves will be rough close to the shore. Water-based recreational activity in the coastal areas was a strict no.
 
 “If there are advisories from the district administration, the people along the coast should be ready to move to safe locations immediately,” Satyagopal said. INCOIS advised the public to check its website (www.incois.gov.in/portal/osf/osf.jsp) for further information and updation of the event like early warnings and withdrawal of warnings.
 
 Ramanathapuram collector S Natarajan appealed to the public to avoid taking bath in the sea at Arichalmunai, Dhanushkodi and Agnitheertham in Rameswaram where pilgrims usually take a holy dip after visiting the Rameswaram temple. Similarly, the public have been asked to avoid playing on the beaches.
 
 The Kanyakumari district administration has warned tourists to avoid playing on the shores as well, as the giant waves could drag them into the sea. Boating for tourists to the Vivekananda Rock and Thiruvalluvar Statue will be suspended in Kanyakumari this weekend.
 
 The fire and rescue services department and all emergency vehicles like ambulances have been alerted and asked to keep ready their vehicles for any emergency. The multi-purpose cyclone centres in coastal areas have been asked to be ready as well.
 
 Collectors said the public and fishermen could contact toll-free number 1077 to seek help.
 
 (With inputs from Ananth M K)
 
 
