Ludhiana: Age is just a number. If you have the zeal, the world can be at your feet. Meet these five veteran women athletes from the city who have proved that there is no alternative to fighting spirit. The five veteran athletes have done the city proud by clinching several medals in the recently-concluded National Master Games, 2018 held at Sector 7 in Chandigarh. Four of them came up trumps in throwing events, while Samita Ahuja, 44 bagged two gold medals in 100 and 200 metres races. The other four are Charanjit Kaur, 61, Amanpreet Kaur, 40 and Rajwinder Kaur, 40 and Rajinder Kaur, 45. 

 Ahuja, a housewife from BRS Nagar has always been hooked on to sports. It is her endeavour to prove that women can also excel in sports. Well, she has examples galore to prove it. Ahuja, who is currently preparing for the Asian Games for veteran players, shot to limelight in 2016 when she bagged three gold medals in three different events (100m, 200m and long jump) at the state level veteran women athletics meet. But family commitments forced her to quit sports but she returned in 2018. 
 
 “Since my childhood, I have been passionate about sports, but when I was 13 I had to leave sports because of non-availability of good coaching module in the my birth state, Rajasthan,” she said. And she added, “But after my marriage I started hitting the gym. But the dream to make it big as an athlete remained. And change in circumstance has got me back in sports after a gap of around 30. I joined professional athletics because with my elder son Nikhil Ahuja who used to visit Guru Nanak Stadium for basketball training from the Basketball Academy.” 
 
 Life took a different turn when she met Sanjeev Sharma, athletics coach, who told her she had the potential to compete at the National Master Games and win medals not only for the state but for the country as well. 
 
 “Even my husband has boosted my morale and always supported me to pursue sports for the past two years. I emerged as the best athlete in the National master games. This has made my family proud,” she said. 
 
 Charanjit, a resident of Khudd Mohla, has secured three medals in hammer, 4x100 relay race and Javelin throw at the National Master Games, 2018. “My father encouragd me to take up sports when I was a child. In the initial stage of my life, I started with hockey and even played at national-level tournaments. But than I took admission in Fazilka Sports College for a degree in physical education so that I could pursue other sports too. Since 2009, I have been in active sports thanks to the motivation of my son and secured several medals at national and state levels for veteran athletes,” she said. 
 
 Amanpreet and Rajwinder have also secured medals at the same event. Rajwinder grabbed five medals in 4x400 relay race (gold), 4x00 (silver), Discuss throw (silver), Javelin throw (bronze) and Hammer throw (bronze).
 
 Amanpreet bagged three medals including a gold in 4x400 relay race event, silver in 1000 metres, and bronze in long jump. Rajinder has clinched a gold medal in hammer throw. 
 
 
