THRISSUR: The tenth edition of International Theatre Festival of   (ITFoK), which showcased 33 plays from India and abroad, will conclude here on Monday.

 On the whole, the festival seems to have achieved critical mass to evolve as a major cultural event in the state, though serious criticisms persist on the selection of the plays, and on organizational lapses. 
 
 It featured performances from 13 countries. A total of 16 plays were from abroad and 16 from India - including five Malayalam productions .
 
 A production by transgender persons gave a unique stature to the festival. Notwithstanding the debates on aesthetic dimensions, the play established that the transgender persons have come to stay in the creative arena of the state, said A Mangai, noted theatre person.
 
 In the international section, plays like the Palestine, Year Zero (Palestine) , Borderline (UK), Womb of Fire (South  ), The Malay Man and His Father (Singapore), Zig Zig ( ), Manus ( ) and Mundo Mozart (Chile) evoked exciting responses. 
 
 In the national section Outcaste (Patna) , Samajswasthya (Pune), Walk ( Delhi), Say What (Mumbai), Akshayambara (Bengaluru), Red Light Express (Mumbai), Nerves (Manipur) and Notes on Chai (Mumbai) were widely debated. Malayalam plays Randu Muri, Adukkala and Thinna, Ekantham, Maranamatch and Uratti also triggered off interesting discussions.
 
 Even festival curators Rajiv Krishnan and S Sunil conceded that the selection of the plays could have been much better. They also said selection by watching video of the plays has limitations. "A play is complete only with the involvement of the audience," said Krishnan.
 
 Sangeetha Nataka Akademi secretary Radhakrishnan Nair said steps would be taken to begin the selection process for the next edition by April. He, however, said they would continue to rely on videos to select plays. "It is not practical to watch live performances of each and every production," he said. 
 
 There were complaints that the festival has become an elite affair. People who were part of Malyalam productions alleged discriminatory treatment. 
 
 "The organisers should provide opportunities to those who have been pushed to the margin," said  , theatre activist and director of the first edition of ITFoK.
 
 
