BENGALURU: Runners, both active and passionate, can mark May 13th as Race Day on their calendar as the TCS World 10K returns to the   for its 11th edition.

 
 The registrations for the   Gold Label race, with a total prize money of $2,05,000, will open on Thursday and close on April 20 or earlier, subject to availability of running slots. The “running festival” will have five categories with the Elite World 10K expected to attract some of the best distance runners from around the globe.
 
 The amateur runners will try to improve their personal best while competing in the Open 10K while thousands of running enthusiasts will put on their sneakers to race in the 6km Majja Run and the 4km Senior Citizens Run (for those above the age of 60). The differently-abled athletes will compete in the Champions with Disability category.
 
 “My friends always ask me when is the next running festival happening in Bengaluru. Such is the popularity of the race that people are keenly looking forward to the Race Day every year,” said  , vice-president and head,  , at the official launch event here on Wednesday.
 
 Procam International Joint MD   Singh said the city always welcomed the 10K race with open arms. “The city’s commitment and its enthusiasm towards scripting new running stories every year makes the TCS World 10K, one of the most sought-after fixtures on the running calendar. This IAAF Gold Label race attracts the best road and track racers globally and the success of this event is credited to all our stakeholders,” Vivek said. “It’s a great triumph for the city that it has successfully conducted 10 editions of the race and has emerged as one of the best in the over 1000 races held in the country every year,” he added.
 
 The highlight of this year’s race would be an all-female community of pacers. The 16 pacers will be split across eight time slots ranging from 55-75 minutes to 70-90 mins. This will be a bonus for the female runners -- competing in the reserved quota -- who wish to compete without a timing certificate.
 
 However, Procam, the organizers of the event, said that with the State Assembly elections likely to be scheduled in May, the date may undergo a change. For registrations, log on to tcsworld10k@procamrunning.in
 
 
 
 
 
 
  USD 2,05,000
 
 
  Open 10K: Rs 1400
 
 
  Rs 800, Senior Citizens Run & Champions With Disability: Rs 300.
 
 Limited Quota for women to race without timing certificates with dedicated female pacers.
 
