Shimla: Clearing way for trial of police officials arrested by CBI for custodial death of Suraj Singh in Kotkhai area of Shimla district in July last year, the Himachal Pradesh government has granted prosecution sanction against eight cops. Suraj was one of the alleged accused arrested by police in connection with gang rape and murder of a minor from Kotkhai area.

 The girl’s body was recovered on July 6 morning last year causing major outrage across the state. Arrested for the crime, Suraj was killed inside the police lockup on July 18 night further leading to public outburst and violent protests in Kotkhai on July 19. The incident had forced the Virbhadra Singh-led Congress government to hand over the case to CBI.
 
 Sources said that earlier when CBI had sought prosecution sanction of arrested cops, the state government had raised some objections. Sources said CM Jai Ram Thakur, who also holds the home department portfolio, gave the sanction last week after getting a detailed report from the CBI.
 
 These eight cops were part of the special investigation team (SIT) formed to crack the brutal crime. CBI already has filed chargesheet against them detailing how Suraj was tortured inside the lock up by cops before his death.
 
 On August 29 last year, CBI had arrested the eight including inspector general of police (IGP) Zahur H Zaidi, who was heading the SIT. Then DSP (Theog) Manoj Joshi, then SHO of Kotkhai police station SI Rajender Singh, ASI Deep Chand, head constables Surat Singh, Mohan Lal and Rafi Mohammad and constable Ranjit Satreta were also named. Former Shimla SP D W Negi was arrested on November 16 last year.
 
 In its chargesheet, CBI has stated that report of second postmortem of Suraj’s body conducted at AIIMS, New Delhi, had revealed that the deceased was subjected to severe torture in police custody. The medical board had concluded that the injuries on the body were caused by a blunt hard cylindrical object such as lathi, rod or baton over different time frames from about two days to 2 hours prior to the death. “Such severe and wanton inflictions o injuries involving back, buttocks, lower limbs and soles are confirmatory of custodial torture resulting into death,” it added.
 
 ‘DGP met jailed SP’
 
 Recently, Himachal Pradesh DGP, S R Mardi reportedly met former Shimla SP D W Negi, arrested in connection with Kotkhai custodial death case and currently in judicial remand, in Kaithu jail of Shimla. This secret meeting has now courted controversy with DGP (prisons) Somesh Goyal asking the jail superintendent to explain under which rule meeting was arranged in his room.
 
 
