KANNUR: Chief minister   has said the intervention of the   in the political developments in   has foiled the efforts of Karnataka governor   to help the BJP poach MLAs from other parties through horse-trading.

 
 Inaugurating the second anniversary celebrations of the LDF government at a gala function here on Friday, the chief minister also said there were efforts to implement the RSS agenda and make the BJP capture the rule, ignoring the parliamentary procedures clearly written in the Constitution. However, when the governor gave B S Yeddyurappa two weeks to prove the majority of his government on the floor of the house, the apex court foiled it and he has been asked to conduct the floor test at 4pm on Saturday, he said.
 
 “In the prevailing circumstances there is no doubt that when the   and the Janata Dal (S) join hands they will have majority, and there is no need for anxiety about what will happen tomorrow, but the concern is how big would be the wound such developments inflict on our democracy,” the chief minister said.
 
 Listing the achievements made by the government in two years, he said a progress report of the government citing the promises made by the LDF will be presented soon before the public in the same way as it did at the first anniversary. After the LDF came to power, Kerala has got the distinction of being the least corrupt state, whereas the image before 2016 was that it is ‘corruption’s own land’, he said. Further, his government implemented many projects that had been deemed non-implementable earlier, he said.
 
 He said the LDF had promised a comprehensive all-inclusive development of the state based on social justice and over the last couple of years it could make major achievements in the fields of agriculture, education and health. “A new culture that looks at agriculture as a job has emerged in the state and now we are closer to achieving self-sufficiency in vegetable and milk production,” the CM said. Also, major steps were taken to rejuvenate rivers and water sources and to treat waste properly. Now, there is a plan to start centralised waste treatment plants in major urban centres, he said.
 
 Earlier, the CM inaugurated the use of ePos machines in the ration shops in the state to ensure transparency in the public distribution system.
 
 
