TIRUNELVELI: For the first time, four anganwadi centres in the district were handed   certification at the Republic Day celebrations on Friday. The ISO 9001:2015 certification states that it has been issued for providing supplementary nutrition, immunisation, health check-up, referral services, pre-school and non-formal education, nutrition and health education.

 Among the centres which received the certification, the one near Reddiarpatti library in   has its building’s exterior painted like a railway coach to give students a feel that they are special and that they are not attending a poorly-maintained government structure. Efforts were also been taken to improve the interior to give them a learning atmosphere. The centre was started in 1984 with less than 10 children. Now, it has 30 children aged two years to five years, including 11 girls.
 
 P Murugaselvi, 39, anganwadi worker who received the certificate on behalf of the centre from district collector Sandeep Nanduri, had joined it in 2010. She said the painting was inspired by a similar effort in a government school in Kerala. Her family spent Rs 7,000 for the painting. The painting was done three months ago, shortly before the ISO certification process began. “Parents of children studying in nearby private schools too have lauded the effort. Painting work is still underway,” she added.
 
 District project officer of the Integrated Child Development Scheme, S Jai   told TOI that as many as 48,291 children are studying in the 2,562 anganwadi centres in Tirunelveli district. “For the certification we were given criteria to identify four schools (according to the GO),” she said.
 
 According to Suriya, the conditions were that the centre should function in a government building, should have a worker and a helper and must have strength of more than 15 children. The hand-picked schools were then given training on health, sanitation and cleanliness and fire safety, to name a few.
 
 The three other anganwadi centres that received the certification are the ones in   in Manur and at   near Nanguneri in rural areas and the one at   in  , which is the only urban anganwadi in the district to get the certification.
 
 Suriya said that this year four anganwadi centres have been identified and given the ISO certification in all the 32 revenue districts across the state.
 
 
