NAGPUR: External factors like peer pressure and competition often cause unrest, emptiness and disturb peace of mind as a result of which common psychological errors are unknowingly committed. Listening to music that is soothing to ears, which also acts as a tonic to fight negative emotions, is the way forward, said Chetan  , a life skill trainer, on Sunday.

 In this fast-paced age, people are caught in the vicious circle of aim, goals and ambitions and they find it difficult to cope with them. Suppression of expression leads to depression, stress and anxiety related issues which should be tackled in time, Rewatkar said. 
 
 He was speaking at a unique musical talk show ‘Dear Zindagi’, organized by   in association with Positive Vibes Events at Sai Sabhagruh, Shankar Nagar. The programme was organized in an effort to spread awareness about   through music.
 
 Rewatkar said, “We should be thankful to stalwarts like Sahir Ludhianvi and Gulzar who penned beautiful lyrics, defining hidden emotions in us. Listening to their songs gives us relief in trying conditions.” Around 15 songs based on different emotions were sung during the event. 
 
 Rewatkar struck a chord with the audience through his soul-stirring rendition of ‘Aye zindagi gale laga le’ and ‘Ek pyaar ka nagma hai’ that highlighted the philosophy of life.
 
 During the interaction, spiritual psychotherapist   said, “The generation today is IT-driven and competitiveness is on the rise. It is challenging to keep calm all the time as these elements sometimes can have a negative impact on the personality of a person. This can cause greediness, develop self-centric attitude and ruin the mental condition.” 
 
 He emphasized on using the healing capacity of music as a therapy to fight negative emotions. Sharing his experiences, he showed a path to lead a healthy and carefree life. 
 
 Prabodh said, “We are living in extremes where it is either success or failure. If we do not achieve the former, we only mourn about it and get disappointed and hurt. In the race to become perfect, we forget that we are human beings first.” 
 
 Describing such feelings to perfection, Rewatkar presented ‘Tere girne mein bhi teri haar nahi, tu aadmi hai avatar nahi’ that summed up the real meaning of life.
 
 
