HYDERABAD: Unlike in the past when candidates with top ranks in national competitive exams, wrote the   exam to brush up on their preparations, just before JEE Advanced, this year they seem to have given the state-level test a complete miss.

 Academicians attributed this to the confidence among candidates of securing a credible seat -- either in the IITs or the NITs. They, however, welcomed this new trend and said that it would benefit other students, as toppers will no longer block seats.
 
 “Majority of the students from our institute, who secured more than 660 marks in the   (NEET) examination and managed a good score in JEE Mains did not write the test. In fact, we had to coax some students, who were reluctant to take the examination, to write at least one of the state entrance tests (either   or Telangana). They were quite confident of getting through the national level examination and thought these exams would unnecessarily distract them from preparing for those tests,” said Sushma Boppana, academic director, Sri Chaitanya Group. She added: “At least 25 students from our institute will make it to the top 100 list in NEET.”
 
 Candidates too seconded their teachers’ claim.
 
 “I skipped AP Eamcet because my aim was to get into  , Delhi. The only reason I chose to appear for TS Eamcet is for practice. I will not participate in the counselling process,” said Y  , who secured the second rank in TS Eamcet.
 
 While acknowledging the reason behind students opting out of Eamcet, some academicians said that they still encourage candidates to take all the examinations unless there is a clash in dates with national-level tests. “It is a matter of pride for students to say that they have secured top ranks in state-level examinations. So we encourage them to write all the tests. However, candidates are compelled to skip a test or two in case the dates of two examinations are too close to each other — like in the case of TS Eamcet that was held just a day or two before NEET,” said  , director,   adding that their students secured 5 out of top 10 ranks in engineering and 7 out of top 10 ranks in AM in Eamcet this year.
 
 
 
 
