Nagpur: Coming down heavily on Maharashtra government for failing to fulfil assurances on filling up several vacant posts at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGMCH), and installing necessary equipment at Super-Specialty Hospital ( ), the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court has asked it to explain all such violations within two weeks.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi on Thursday also directed the state to explain before February 5 its failure to appoint a full-time dean at IGMCH.
 
 The directives came while hearing a contempt petition in a writ petition filed by CH Sharma and others, regarding lack of facilities in GMCs across Vidarbha.
 
 Earlier, Anand Parchure, appearing for State Medical Education and Drugs Department principal secretary, submitted a civil application listing out the time-bound steps through which by month-end the permanent dean would be appointed. He sought more time to reply on the other issues.
 
 Amicus curiae Anup Gilda then pointed out that the principal secretary had given an undertaking on April 27 that all important posts, including that of dean, would be filled up at IGMCH before the start of 2017-18 academic year in June. However, no steps have been taken in this regard till date. Currently, Dr Anuradha Shrikhande is working as acting dean.
 
 IGMCH’s 250-bedded hospital, which is functioning solely due to the HC’s intervention, needs about 157 staff members and despite repeated directives only 80 were recruited on contractual basis, while 77 are yet to be appointed. Gilda contended that this may again pose problems to get recognition for its seats from Medical Council of India (MCI).
 
 The amicus also drew attention to the absence of air conditioning in pre and post-operational theatres, and non-procurement of equipment or appliances for SSH though sufficient funds were made available in October.
 
 The judges directed the respondents to complete the process mentioned in secretary’s application without fail. “However, this direction is without prejudice to the grievance made in contempt petition and amicus curiae’s submission that the violations have not been explained. The same would be examined on the next date of hearing. It is open for the respondents to file reply on other aspects in the meanwhile. We’ve perused the secretary’s application for grant of time and allow amicus to file any affidavit, if necessary.”
 
 In the last hearing, the court had asked the government why contempt action shouldn’t be taken against it for not appointing regular dean, despite giving an undertaking.
 
 
