New Delhi: There may not be a re-test for the leaked   maths paper even in Delhi-NCR and   as the board and HRD ministry officials are veering to the view that the leak will not significantly impact the examination and the overall result even though action against those responsible for the breach will be pursued vigorously.

 Though the CBSE will take a final decision shortly, evidence gathered by police and the board so far does not point to a widespread leak and efforts are on to evaluate if lakhs of students need to take the exam afresh. As things stand, it is likely that even Delhi-NCR and Haryana students may not need to appear for a re-test.
 
 A well-placed source said a rigorous analysis will be conducted to check unusual variations in marks in the coming days to zero in on centres where answer sheets indicate a leak. "If a student has done poorly in internal assessment and does exceptionally well in the main paper and this is at variance with his other papers — then we might examine the result more carefully," said the source.
 
 The view in the HRD ministry is that the leakwas not as widespread as has been feared. The   examination, being a qualifying one for higher secondary, rather than for admission to colleges and universities as in the case of Class XII, could be treated differently. "If it is not absolutely essential, why impose a re-test?" the source asked.
 
 However, while the board may soon announce that there will be no re-test for Class X maths, investigations against erring officials and their collaborators in coaching institutes and schools will be taken up to reduce the possibility of breaches in future. The government hopes that a new testing authority will also improve the sanctity of examinations conducted on a national scale.
 
 Meanwhile, the board has been scanning several claims and images of allegedly leaked papers but has not been able to confirm any beyond the Class XII economics and Class X maths papers. 
 
 “There are mechanisms to evaluate unusual pattern and the board has narrowed down on centres where it needs to look for trends of unusually high marks,” said an exam branch officer of CBSE on condition of anonymity. "The board has been consistent right from the start that whatever decision will be taken will be in the interest of the students,” the officer added.
 
 
