Mumbai: A 13-year-old Class VIII student on her way to school in   was allegedly threatened at knifepoint and was being dragged away by a gang of youths until a passerby raised an alarm, forcing them to flee. Two of the eight youths, both aged 18, have been arrested. 

 Manickpur police have registered a case of kidnap and molestation against the eight accused. In her police complaint, the girl said six of the youths lived in her locality while two were not known to her.
 
 Around 9.30am, the girl, a resident of Vasai (East), was dropped near K T Multivision Theatre in Vasai (West) by her uncle on his bike. From there, she was to walk to her school located a kilometre away. As the girl walked towards  , she saw four bikes parked alongside the road with eight youngsters. 
 
 One of the youths pulled out a knife and held it against her and threatened to kill her if she raised an alarm. Another youth held her hand and began to pull her when she refused to accompany him. The other youngsters too threatened her and forced her to walk with them. As the girl began to cry, an alert passerby screamed at the youths and asked them what were they up to. They then hurriedly got on their bikes and fled. 
 
 The weeping girl went home and told her parents of the crime and they immediately approached local police along with their neighbours.
 
 In her complaint, the girl and her parents stated that a few boys from the locality had been stalking her on her way to and from school since a few days. Her parents had therefore begun to accompany her to school and back. On days when they were not free, she would travel with her schoolmates. On Monday, a classmate who was to accompany her left early for school. Her uncle then decided to chip in but when he reached Vasai (West), he had to leave for some urgent work and therefore dropped her a little away from school.
 
 Police have booked the eight under Indian Penal Code sections 363 for kidnap, 354 for outraging modesty and 34 for common intention. Section 18 of   for punishment for attempt to commit a sexual offence has also been applied. Cops have also seized one of the bikes.
 
 
