AGARTALA/ KOLKATA/ DELHI: Arch rivals Trinamool and   on Tuesday closed ranks in slamming   over the demolition of two   statues in   in the last 24 hours even as the junior home minister at the Centre, Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, emphasised that "statues of foreign leaders have no place in India".

 "We condemn all kinds of violence and the state government is handling the situation. But I want to make it clear that statues of foreign leaders are not required in India. I don't want to take anyone's name but I want to say that we have no place for them," Ahir told PTI. He added that India had produced enough icons and ideologues like Mahatma Gandhi, Swami Vivekananda, B R Ambedkar, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya and Ram Manohar Lohia for people to eulogise.
 
 Bengal chief minister   and CPM general secretary   appeared to be on the same page on the demolition of the Lenin statues.
 
 "Lenin is not our leader, but we are tolerant of all views. We don't support dismantling of statues of heroes be it that of Gandhiji, Netaji, Swami Vivekananda, Marx or Lenin. I will raise my voice," Mamata said at a public meeting in Bankura's Patrasayar. At the same time, Mamata took care that her statement was not misunderstood by her party supporters, who had fought CPM tooth and nail during the Left Front rule. "I fought against CPM atrocities in Singur, Nandigram and Netai. But that doesn't prevent me from opposing BJP's atrocities in Tripura. Beat CPM with your development if you can," she said.
 
 Reacting to the demolition, Yechury said, "BJP's fascistic trait has been well displayed at Tripura's Belonia where they dismantled Lenin's statue. What's more, the governor of Tripura, holding a constitutional position, has expressed happiness over the dismantling of the statue. This is a grave danger."
 
 Refuting Yechury's allegations of attacks by BJP-RSS supporters on Left workers, Sunil Deodhar, BJP's Tripura observer, said: "BJP has no role in the Belonia incident. It was an outburst of people's anger against CPM which was suppressed for 25 years."
 
 Deodhar said BJP is committed to ending all kinds of political intolerance. "I assure you that once our government is formed, such incidents will never happen in Tripura," he added.
 
 
