JAIPUR: The   (JSCL) is all set to develop three parks in the city under the smart city project. 

 On the lines of Central Park situated in C-scheme, the JSCL has decided to develop similar parks in Pratap Nagar, sector 16 and 18. In these parks, the JSCL has proposed to develop open gym area and yoga centre. Play areas for the small kids will also be defined in the park.
 
 A JSCL official said, “The estimated cost to develop these parks is Rs 2.07 crore. The area of both these park is 3.47 hectares. The   would take up this work Centre government Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) mission,”
 
 The new parks are expected to benefit thousands of morning walkers and joggers who have to travel long distance to stay fit. Kamlendra Singh, a resident of Pratap Nagar said, “The scheme was developed by the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB). In past several years the RHB has not developed a single park. The area earmarked for parks are deserted till date. It would benefit thousands of residents who walk on roads,” he said.
 
 Similarly, on Jaipur- Delhi road, the JSCL will also take up the development work of Green Valley. The work will be done between the Eidgah and Purani Chungi. 
 
 Meanwhile, on Thursday JSML, chief executive officer, Ravi Jain inspected the progress of footpath which will be laid in Kishanpole area of walled city. He instructed the contractor that a 100 meter stretch should to developed as a sample by reducing the width of the footpath and parking slots should also be developed in that stretch for getting a clear picture of the road width.
 
 Recently, a fresh dispute occurred over the footpaths which are being constructed in Kishanpole Bazaar under the smart city projects. According to sources, the mayor has shown disappointment over the width of the footpath.
 
 “Mayor is objecting the construction of footpaths claiming it would lead to traffic congestion in the walled city area. As per the preliminary discussions, conclusion was drawn that the footpath will be constructed in 100 meter area as a model. As construction area is increased by JSML the mayor has raised an objection,” said an official source. 
 
 
