LUCKNOW: For   toppers and high scorers of the city, the first preference for higher education is foreign universities while   and other reputed Indian colleges come second.

 Most toppers with science and humanities subjects are vying for admissions abroad.
 
 All-India second topper  , from CMS Mahanagar, believes that pursuing engineering abroad will land him his dream job.
 
  
  
 “I have applied to five foreign universities to pursue BTech in computer science as it provides better job opportunities in comparison to Indian technical universities offering placement in international giants of IT sector,” said Ibrahim.
 
 “I have already made it to  , Philadelphia, US. It is offering me a scholarship to pursue my dream,” he added.
 
 “A number of my classmates prefer foreign universities over Indian tec hnical universities,” he added.
 
 From City Montessori School, 45 students have applied for admission to top universities across the globe.
 
 “I have applied to a US university to pursue higher education in medicine but I will wait for NEET results first. A majority of my classmates have applied to international institutions first and Indian institutions like Delhi University are their second option,” said Radhika Chandra, who secured all-India first position securing 99.5%.
 
 For meritorious students of La Martiniere Girls’ College, too, it’s ‘foreign first, DU next’ for higher education.
 
 “I have applied to four foreign universities for honours degree in economics and mathematics. In a batch of 200 students in our class, 35 have applied abroad and applications of most have been accepted,” said Vanshika Agarwal, who scored 98.75%.
 
 Science and humanities students are opting for foreign universities because they are more tech-based, advanced, offer placement in top multinationals and offer world-class in-depth research, she added.
 
 Similarly, top scorers of schools like St Francis College, Lucknow Public School and SKD Academy are ready to leave the country if they don’t get institutes of choice.
 
 “The number of students seeking admission to premier institutes like IIT and medical universities is in lakhs but the number of seats is limited. This is the main reason for brain drain as a good student will not want to compromise,” said Arushi of SKD Academy who scored 96.6%.
 
 For commerce students, Indian institutions seem to be the preferred choice. Colleges of DU, St Xavier’s College and   in Mumbai and some colleges in south India are sought after, said Devarshi Bhadouria.
 
