JAIPUR: A day after Rajasthan education minister   stated that the law of gravity was discovered by Indian mathematician and astronomer   –II (598-670), and not by   (1642-1727), the historians have partially substantiated the minister’s claim by presenting empirical evidences like coins, texts and manuscripts.

 The head of History department at  , KG Sharma, quoted a Sanskrit verse from the book Brahmasphutasiddhanta (628) of Brahmagupta: “A body falls towards the earth as it is the nature of the earth to attract bodies just as it in the nature of the water to flow.” This statement indicates Brahmagupta’s understanding of the gravity, later which was elaborated by another Indian astronomer Bhaskara II (1114-1185) in his book Surya Siddhanta in 1150.
 
 Meanwhile, the minister is asking the critics to read texts and books by Brahmagupta before passing any judgment on his claim.
 
 "The impression is being made that I have made a fictional statement. I would not comment on my statement. Rather, I would ask those who have expressed disbelief and shocked to at least read the texts of Brahmagupta or read the research carried on him by modern-day scientists," said the minister.
 
 He made the statement on law of gravity during the 72nd foundation day ceremony of Rajasthan University on Monday.
 
 Major texts authored by Brahmagupta includes ‘Durkeamynarda’ (672), ‘Khandakhadyaka’ (665), ‘Brahmasphutasiddhanta’ (628) and ‘Cadamakela’ (624).
 
 Brahmagupta's works in astronomy forms the basis for astronomy-related intelligence of Arabs, said Sharma, while quoting US-based academician Thomas Hockey’s book ‘The Biographical Encyclopedia of Astronomers’: "The Islamic Caliph Al-Mansur (754–775) made the translations of Brahmagupta’s astronomy-related text ‘Brahmasphutasiddhanta’ through Ibrāhīm al‐Fazārī in a book titled Zīj al‐Sindhind al‐kabīr.
 
 “The Caliph Al-Mansur sent expeditions to Gujjardesa after Sindh fell under Islamic Caliphate. The translations have had a deep impact on Arab or Muslim society till today,” said Sharma.
 
 Brahmagupta was born in Bhinmal in Jalore district and lived most of his life in Ujjain which was part of Gujjardesa dynasty.
 
 Zaffarullah Khan, superintendent, department of museology and archaeology, said that other than texts, several manuscripts and epigraphs indicate Brahmagupta’s research in the relevant fields. “The possibility of having ‘astronomy-related sites in the territory of Gujjardesa set up during the years of Brahmagupta cannot be ruled out,” said Khan.
 
 
 
 
