VISAKHAPATNAM: After the initial hiccups, the redevelopment plans for the   in the city have been put on the fast track. The   ( ) is believed to be at an advanced stage of finalising the park’s concept plan. 

 After ‘Raj Expedith Architects’ (REA) exited the   project, Vuda has roped in ‘Design Accord’ to prepare the development plans for the park. Other than developing it into just a leisure park, the urban planning body wants to give a new look to the park through various theme-based entertainments to provide a delightful experience to visitors.
 
 On January 10, representatives of Design Accord presented their proposals before Vuda and AP Urban Greening and Beautification Corporation Ltd. After incorporating the changes and suggestions of the officials over the project plan, Design Accord is expected to come up with the final project plan in the next two-three weeks. Later, the final plan will be presented before chief minister   to seek his opinion.
 
 The proposals envisaged as part of the park redevelopment include a mega open air theatre, theme village, exhibition and multipurpose hall, kids’ park, festival ground and literature gallery among others. Vuda is also planning to develop an 8-acre mango orchard in the park into a dedicated picnic spot to attract more people during the the holiday season and auspicious months such as Karthika Masam.
 
 A senior Vuda official said they want to give the park a unique look compared to other parks in the city. “The ecology of the park will be integrated into the redevelopment. The plan is not to disturb even a single shrub of the park,” said the official. 
 
  and Park, which was once a popular picnic spot, has gradually lost its sheen and is now a picture of neglect. Constructed in 1902, when the country was under British rule, it is one of the oldest existing parks in the region. The Mudasarlova reservoir, located next to the park, is one of the drinking water sources of the city.
 
 Located on the way to Simhachalam on BRTS Road from Hanumanthawaka, the reservoir park’s tourism potential has never been tapped. But then, as they say, better late than never. If all goes as per plan, it should be back to its glory days soon.
 
 
