MADURAI:In the second of a three-part series on viable modes of transport in the wake of the ticket fare hike by   State Transport Corporation, TOI profiles the man who introduced share autorickshaws.

 Madurai: It was not an easy beginning for S  , 52, of Jai Hind Puram in Thennagaram, who introduced the concept of share autorickshaws in the city 14 years ago. After completing his ninth standard, he worked in a mill for seven years and as a tanker lorry helper and driver for seven years, before shifting his career to autorickshaws in the nineties.
 
 In 1998, he bought an autorickshaw that ran on petrol. “Fuel price at that time was Rs 24 a litre. By 2003 the price increased by more than 33 per cent to Rs 33 a litre. It was then that I wanted to buy a diesel autorickshaw as the cost of the fuel was Rs 20 a litre. I got a new model that was a little bigger than the old diesel autos,” he said.
 
 For the first few days, people would stare amusingly at his bulky autorickshaw. “They thought I would charge more as the vehicle was bigger and hence they would hire smaller autorickshaws near me. I noticed that there were not enough buses too,” he said explaining what prompted him to introduce share autos.
 
 Muruganantham charged Rs 3 per ticket from Palanganatham to Arapalayam (4.5 kms) and from Kochadai to Simmakkal (5.5 kms). Seven to eight people would board his vehicle at a time and the rate was uniform. While his service won the loyalty of customers in no time it also earned the wrath of fellow three-wheeler drivers as it was affecting their business.
 
 “They used to verbally abuse and chase me away. They even beat and pushed me out of my autorickshaw. Pandian Roadways Corporation, Madurai, (now Tamil Nadu State Road Transport Corporation Ltd) took pictures of me with the vehicle and lodged complaints that I was harming their business,” he said. When such complaints were raised by the government transport corporation, the Regional Transport Office (RTO) authorities used to seize his vehicle which took three to four working days to get released after paying a fine. “But I used to drive for about 150 kms a day and earn Rs 700,” he said.
 
 With this earning he made his daughter complete MBA while his son is now pursuing third year engineering in a private college. He also inspired hundreds of auto drivers to go for the diesel vehicle, who in turn inspired the others to take the number of share autorickshaws in the district to more than 5,900.
 
 Despite the share autorickshaw population going up, Muruganantham is able to make the same Rs 700 a day. But he takes home around Rs 400 only as he has to spend more on fuel with diesel price escalating more than three-fold from what it was in 2004.
 
 
