At least three assembly constituencies in Uttara Kannada district – Karwar, Kumta and Haliyal – have bucked the trend of aspirants from dominant communities bagging tickets. In Haliyal, two national parties have fielded candidates from the   community, whose numbers are below 1,000. But while caste equations are out, money power rules.

 
  
 
 Like most parts of the district, Haliyal is industrially backward. The topography of the district has been cited as one of the main hindrances in establishing major industries. This has led to largescale unemployment and migration. Though some of the major rivers run through the constituency and provide water to adjacent districts and power to the state, nearby areas don’t have water for drinking or irrigation, which is another major cause of migration.
 
 The constituency is represented by minister and seventime   RV Deshpande, who was defeated just once, in 2008, when he lost to  , then in JD(S) and now contesting from BJP. Joida taluk is one of the biggest taluks in Karnataka area-wise, but 80% of it is forest. This taluk has one of the biggest hydroelectric projects (Supa) which is built across river Kali. It is also the highest dam in Karnataka. The area, however, is reeling under shortage of drinking water.
 
 Covered by the Western Ghats, Joida taluk also falls under Project Tiger area. This has affected the lives of the people here. Project Tiger bars any developmental work in the forest without the permission of the environment department. The population of some villages is less than 50 and the distance between them is 20-25 km in the deep forest. Many families have shifted out of the taluk due to this while a few remaining families have dug in their heels. In Haliyal, there are 37 villages with population below 100 and 41 with just 100-200 population.
 
 Dandeli is the only industrial town in the district. With two major industries closed – including 100 auxiliary units – unemployment has become a major issue here. The locals demand that the closed industries be reopened but Deshpande, who was heavy and medium scale industry minister for three terms, failed to do so. He blames the trade unions for the closure of the industries.
 
 Haliyal is known as a ‘paddy barn’ and is famed for its sugarcane.  , who dominate the population, say they are not getting the proper price for their produce. Unlike Joida and Dandeli which are Malnad areas, Haliyal is pure Bayaluseeme. The irrigation facility here is in a limited area.
 
 
