ALWAR: Following a landslide win in Alwar parliamentary seat in the by-poll, the newly elected Congress MP Dr Karan Singh Yadav said that his first priority would be opening of the ESI hospital in Alwar waiting for its inauguration. The hospital constructed during the Congress time has been waiting for its opening for the last two years, he said.

 He said, his next priority will be to pursue Chambal water project to Alwar which was mooted during the Congress regime but was not pursued seriously by the present BJP regime.
 
 He said, the MP area development fund has been lying unutilized as the former MP Chandnath was unwell after his election. The utilization of the fund for the welfare of the people would be urgency.
 
 Dr Karan Singh thanking the people of his constituency for his victory said the credit of his victory goes to the policies and programmes of the Congress party and unity of the leaders of the Congress and workers.
 
 The defeat BJP candidate and minister Dr Jaswant Yadav attributed his defeat to the delay in announcing the candidate. He said the party delayed the announcement of the candidate while the Congress had taken a lead in this matter. 
 
 The ruling party which had captured seven out of the eight assembly segments in the parliamentary seat in the last assembly elections has been outmaneuvered by the Congress this time resulting in the emphatic victory of the party candidate. The other lone seat had gone to Golma Devi of the NPP.
 
 Enthused by the election results, former Union Minister Jitendra Singh on Thursday announced ‘Mission 11’ (the assembly seats in Alwar constituency) in the upcoming assembly elections due in December this year.
 
 He said, the BJP in the last four years had halted the development work in Alwar and the by poll victory is a response of the people to the arrogant BJP government.
 
 BJP district president Pandit Dharamveer Sharma said that the party would analyse the reasons for the defeat and would also strive to implement the welfare schemes of the Union and state governments in an effective way.
 
 
