PATNA: The Special Vigilance Unit (SVU) sleuths have seized passbooks of at least 15 bank accounts from the residence of   Deepak Anand’s in-laws at Mahgama in Jharkhand’s Godda district. The bank accounts, in the name of domestic helps and poor people, were allegedly being used for money laundering.

 SVU sources said the money deposited in these bank accounts were routed to the bank accounts of Deepak’s wife Shikha Rani in Patna for last several years.
 
 The SVU sleuths had raided the Patna circuit house where Deepak was putting in, his parental house in Sitamarhi, Shikha’s hostel room at Katihar Medical College and her parents’ house in Godda on Wednesday and unearthed assets of at least Rs2.3 crore, which was 1900% more than their known sources of income. The SVU had lodged an case of disproportionate assets against the 2007 batch Bihar cadre IAS officer and his wife a day before conducting the raids.
 
 “Several bank passbooks in the name of different people, who were either working as servants at Deepak’s in-laws’ residence or were very poor, were seized from the Godda house. Small amount of money were being frequently deposited in these bank accounts,” SVU sources said.
 
 Sources said that the money deposited in these bank accounts were being transferred to the bank account of Deepak’s father-in-law and later to Shikha’s accounts in Patna. “This process was going on for the last few years and a huge amount of money was transferred through this method,” sources said.
 
 “Deepak’s father-in-law is a retired government primary schoolteacher while the mother-in-law, also a primary level teacher, is still working with Jharkhand government,” SVU sources said.
 
 They said four such persons whose bank accounts were being used for money transaction have been identified and further investigations were on in this connection.
 
 SVU sources also said the raiding team from Godda would return on Friday evening after which more things would become clear.
 
 “The officer and his wife were being persuaded either to open their two lockers at State Bank of India’s Gandhi Maidan branch in the presence of SVU sleuths or face legal recourse to seek a magistrate’ help,” SVU sources said.
 
 
