AHMEDABAD: Sudhir Baghel, who was brought to the city on Sunday from Mainpuri, Uttar Pradesh, by the Ahmedabad crime branch in connection with Rs 98 lakh cash theft, told police that his accomplice Mukesh Yadav, alias Fauji, had masterminded the theft. Baghel, the driver of a cash management firm’s van, had drugged a security guard and two employees of the firm on February 23 to steal the money. Police had learnt that Baghel was associated with Yadav, a former employee of the firm.

 “Baghel has told us that Yadav had brought him to Ahmedabad with theft in mind,” an investigator said. “Yadav had promised Baghel a job that came with Rs 9,000 per month salary. He used his contacts and got Baghel the driver’s job.
 
 As for the spoils of the theft, Yadav had promised Baghel a 50% cut.” Police said that as part of the plan, Yadav resigned from the job less than a week before the theft. He had sent his family back home late in January.
 
 “Baghel wanted to help his father repay Rs 7 lakh debt. The loan had been taken for the marriage of Baghel’s sister and his brother’s education,” the investigator said. “That’s why Baghel agreed take part in Yadav’s operation.” Baghel’s family was distraught when it learnt that he had been involved in crime and was being pursued by  , the investigator said. In the end, Baghel got only Rs 50,000 from Yadav. Baghel told police that Yadav had been unable to take the cash into premises he had rented. The landlord had denied entry when he found that Yadav’s vehicle was full of money.
 
 
 Ex-employee of cash management firm arrested
  police arrested  , a former employee of CMS Securities, on Monday for his alleged involvement in the theft. Police said Parmar had worked with Yadav to plan the theft. Parmar was in-charge of assigning responsibilities to employees. Parmar had been promised a cut by Yadav. Parmar was, however, fired from the job after an altercation with seniors just days before the theft. He had allegedly tried to destroy documents that could expose the nexus, investigators said.
 
