Thiruvananthapuram: The city corporation officials have expressed disappointment over some of the scores it has received under components like transparency and citizen participation.

  While the civic body has scored full points in constituting ward committees, it scores zero in formation of area sabhas. This observation has not gone down well with corporation officials. “We were one of the first civic bodies to organize ward sabhas in 100 wards. Even now ward sabhas are being held actively,” a corporation official said.
 
 Of the 12 components under transparency and citizen participation, the civic body could score full points only in three areas. 
 
 Technology and process management was another component where corporation suffered badly. Of the two components and two sub-components the highest score gained by corporation is 1.7 out of 10; for incorporating citizen participation in corporation website. However in terms of offering basic service delivery, schemes and services and having an e-procurement system corporation has failed to open the account. 
 
 Under accountability component, the civic body attained good scores for having single window civic service centre and for having an ombudsman. The corporation however scored below average marks in terms of having a citizens’ charter for target levels of service, timelines for delivery of services and protocols for obtaining relief, where service levels are not met.
 
 The civic body’s inability to take forward climate disaster resilience index prepared by state disaster management authority also resulted in poor scores under the component urban planning and design. The civic body has scored a zero in terms of having a sustainability/resilience strategy. Corporation’s lack of initiative in upholding innovative concepts also caused setbacks. The civic body scored zero under the criterion of incentives for green buildings. The corporation however draws consolation from scoring full points for having a city sanitation plan and comprehensive mobility plan. 
 
 Lack of a proper master plan resulted in a series of zeroes for corporation under the head spatial development plan implementation. Of the seven factors which determine scores like having policies on land titling, land pooling, single window clearance for development projects and having prescribed urban designs standards to guide the execution of urban projects, corporation does not even score 1 point.
 
 Adding to the woes, corporation recorded poor scores in case of participatory planning. Under two heads; whether the law mandates public scrutiny and public participation in plan preparation, corporation has scored zero. 
 
 “We would be able to improve on our scores in case of spatial development plan next year. Consultation with public is going to be a key priority area ahead of preparation of master plan,” a town planning official said.
 
 
