MUMBAI: Exam and   are in the pipeline for the students from two city colleges which were awarded autonomy on Tuesday. 

 Jai Hind and Mithibai colleges were among the eight colleges in the country that were granted autonomy based on their NAAC ratings. To do away with prejudice, double-blind assessment process will be implemented at Mithibai College in the coming academic session. At Jai Hind College,  , that will allow students to learn at their own pace, is being planned.
 
  
  are something that students from Mumbai University affiliated colleges have been looking forward to in the recent past. “With the chaos that ensued last year after the delay in assessment and results, many reputed colleges have been considering getting academic autonomy to frame their own policies. Students expect timely results,” said a university official.
 
 In the double-blind assessment system, already followed at K J Somaiya College, the exam papers are assessed by two examiners. Both examiners are not aware of the marks awarded by the other, thereby bringing in more transparency in the process. Mithibai College principal Rajpal Hande said, “The college has procured a learning management system, not only for the curriculum but also for internal assessment and assignments. We plan to implement online assessment to help results in time.”
 
 Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, said their focus would be on making the curriculum industry relevant. “Application-based experiential learning with skill component and interdisciplinary approach are in the offing. Efforts will be to make learning interesting. More focus will be on all-round development of students and in increasing their employability.” Transparent, time-bound results are on Jai Hind’s agenda too.
 
  and  , the two deemed-to-be universities from the city to make it to Category I institutes, which enjoy autonomy to a great extent, are planning to use their newly-awarded status to expand further. NMIMS will focus on acquiring   to bring the institute on the global map. Vice-chancellor Rajan Saxena from the university said, “The international accreditations will help us to collaborate with the 500 global institutions. It will also help us attract foreign students and faculties and even global conglomerates to recruit from our campuses and to create more multidisciplinary research centres with the industry and the government.” Saxena added that the industry-offered certificate programmes and online industry-relevant courses will be recognised by the university to allow students to acquire credits from multiple disciplines.
 
 TISS, which has the highest NAAC score of 3.89 in the country, has autonomy to frame innovative courses for long, said in-charge director, Shalini Bharat. “We already have our off-site campuses and we will use the new status to generate more resources to run their existing courses. We are also looking forward to getting funding for research,” she added.
 
 
