Hubballi:   ( ), which operates in six districts in the region, has been accused of unfair trade practices. Commuters allege the state transport corporation plies several services with a red board — meant to indicate express service — but operates them as ordinary services, thus duping commuters.

 Speaking to TOI, Nagaraj Wali, a banker, who frequently commutes between   and Gajendragad, claimed many buses ply between   and Gajendragad with red boards. However, NWKRTC collects ordinary fares. “It misleads commuters who wish to travel quickly by paying additional charges,” Wali said.
 
 
 
  
 
 “These buses take 90 minutes to cover the distance of 55km, while an express services takes only 60 minutes. Also, these buses stop at eight places along the route, while an express should stop only at three. We do not object to the corporation providing services to passengers in all towns and villages, but we object to running ordinary services with the red board. There is another bus between   and Gajendragad that runs with the red board and collects express charge but stops at all villages and even junctions.”
 
 Basanagouda Patil, a businessman in Laxmeshwar, claimed NWKRTC issues tickets with the word “ordinary” to escape litigation. “I had issued a legal notice to authorities at the NWKRTC’s Gadag division for taking two hours to cover a distance of 55km, but the corporation got away by arguing that it was an ‘ordinary’ service,” Patil said.
 
 He noted Haveri-Gadag buses have red boards but conductors issue ‘ordinary’ tickets. “If buses with red boards are running ordinary service, then NWKRTC should clearly intimate passengers,” he added.
 
 Jayashri, a college girl of Katral village, alleged NWKRTC operates some express buses between Ron and Gajendragad — a distance of 28km — and refuse to accept students passes. “As per KSRTC norms, student passes are not allowed only in inter-state and jatra special buses. They are valid on all express buses. But officials here have made their own rules,” she said.
 
 A I Budihal, a retired conductor and employee union leader, admitted NWKRTC runs many schedules on standing orders. “Officials rarely issue instructions on stops in writing,” he said. “They quiz staff on revenue collection potential,” he said. “It becomes difficult when legally aware passengers question the schedules and services.”
 
 Basantpur, divisional traffic officer, Gadag, said red boards are meant for express, but claimed he is unaware of decisions at depot level.
 
 
