Coimbatore: A group of farmers showcased bottles of neera (sweet toddy) at a sales introduction meet held in the city on Monday. The farmers, associated with the city-based Katchi Saarbatra Vivasayigal Sangam, have started tapping neera and sold them on a trial basis.  Though a government order states that neera can be supplied only by companies or co-operative societies registered under the Food Safety and Standards Authority Act, 2006, farmers claimed that they have tapped and bottled the drink only for trial purposes. “We are planning to give the bottled samples of the drink to people and food outlets who are interested. We are doing this to see whether setting up a neera plant will be economically viable,” said AS Babu, secretary of the Coimbatore Coconut Farmers Association. He said they have fixed a price of Rs 20 for a 200ml bottle of neera. The drink, extracted from coconut trees, should be stored in cold conditions. If kept in room temperature, it will ferment to toddy. This was a reason why the drink was banned in the state. “Through this meeting, we are also trying to create awareness on the drink among various stakeholders,” Babu added. He said the Coimbatore Coconut Farmers Association, which has around 60 members, has petitioned the collector to grant them permission to extract neera from coconut trees. “It will take around Rs 3 crore to set up a plant to process neera and supply it to outlets. We don’t know whether we can afford it,” Babu said.  He added that if officials say their attempt to distribute neera samples to people and outlets is illegal, then coconut farmers will request officials to grant them permission and help them set up neera processing plant. “Even if we can’t set up a plant, we want the government to procure the drink from coconut farmers and process and sell it themselves,” Babu added. An official of the agriculture department said the farmers might not have known the particulars of the government order, as it was a recent. “But we will look into the issue and inform the farmers about the official procedures,” the official added. 