Vadodara: The move by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) to allow  , a wholly owned subsidiary of   (India) Ltd, to sell its stake in Vadodara Gas Ltd (VGL) – a joint venture city gas distribution company formed by   and GAIL – to   (GGL) is meeting with stiff resistance. Former mayor from the   and opposition leader Chandrakant Shrivastava have opposed the move.

 
 Shah, who was mayor when the JV was formed, has stated in a letter to the current VMC mayor that when a partner for the JV was to be identified, the VMC had overlooked other companies including the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Ltd (GSPCL) and formed the JV with GAIL in the interest of citizens.
 
 Shah as well as Shrivastava have pointed out in separate letters that it was not if GAIL was not interested in the city gas distribution business. They pointed out that GAIL had its city gas operations in Delhi and Mumbai. They had added that GAIL had not put its stake up for grabs, but it was GSPCL that made an offer to GAIL in 2015. GSPCL’s subsidiary GGL will now be buying the stake.
 
 The letters states that it was evident that the decision as being taken under some pressure. It was necessary to find out why this was being done, added Shah. Shrivastava went a step further and alleged that the pressure was political.
 
 Shah has stated in his letter that even if GAIL was allowed to sell its stake, the VMC needed to safeguard its interests. He added that the restrictive clauses in the agreement should remain even with the new JV partner of the VMC. The restrictive clauses include that of a lock in period of five years before which a partner cannot sell its stake. The stake cannot be sold to a company doing the same business and a share of more than 20 per cent cannot be sold to any partner.
 
 GAIL has sought waiver of such restrictive clauses to sell its stake to GGL. While the demand has been made since 2015, the VMC had not moved ahead with it so far. The sudden urgency shown in this regard by the VMC has raised eyebrows now.
 
 
