

 
 , 31 From Sonipat, Haryana Attempts: 2
 
 
 Mother of a four-year-old and a physics graduate from Delhi University’s Hindu College, Kumari quit her job in Gurgaon two years ago to focus on  . She returned to her village in Sonipat and began studying for 10-12 hours a day. “Work had become mechanical. So I decided to quit and do something that would contribute to society. Since I have got this opportunity now, I would like to work for women's empowerment,” she says.
 
 
 
 
 
 , 24 Buxar, Bihar Attempts: 2
 
 An alumnus of IIT Delhi, Prakash was determined to crack the IAS exam though his father, also an engineer, wanted him to go abroad to study and work. “I chose to be a civil servant because I want to improve the conditions in government schools by training teachers so that children can get quality education,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 , 24 Sumaliyai village, Rajasthan Attempts: 2
 
 It’s the daily struggle to get water that inspired Deshal Dan to keep trying till he cracked the UPSC exam with a rank high enough to qualify for the administrative service. Dan, the son of a tea seller lives in Sumaliyai, a village about 70km from Jaislmer, and it can sometimes take a day to arrange a bucket of water. Dan studied in Jaisalmer till Class X and moved to Kota for Class XII. He didn’t go to coaching classes but studied every day to crack the exam. “My father and three brothers kept encouraging me to keep pursuing my dream,” says Dan, who made it to the foreign service last year but rejected it. “My father’s daily struggle to keep me in school and college inspired me.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Melaottankadu village, Tamil Nadu Attempts: 4
 
 Prabakaran dropped out after Class XII as his family couldn’t afford engineering college fees. His father being an alcoholic, his sister and mother who wove and sold coconut fronds to keep the family going, and Prabakaran had to start working. “I worked as a sawmill operator for two years and did a bit of farming. Whatever money I could muster, I spent on my family and saved some for my education. I wasn’t prepared to let go of my dreams,” says Prabakaran. After putting his brother through college and paying for his sister’s wedding, he joined a civil engineering course at Thanthai Periyar Government Institute of Technology in Vellore. After college in Vellore, he’d work at a mobile recharge outlet. On weekends, he’d travel to Chennai, stay on the   railway station platform and take UPSC training classes. He went on to crack the IIT-M entrance exam and finished his MTech in 2014. He’s now, most likely, set to walk the halls of Fort St George, the seat of the Tamil Nadu administration.
 
 
 
 
 
 , 23  , UP Attempts: 2
 
 The son of a farmer and a civil engineer from IIT-Roorkee, Singh grew up in Daser, about 55km from Allahabad. As a child, he saw a homeless man die for want of care, and resolved to help society. “I chose to be a civil servant because I wanted to serve society and prevent exploitation of people,” he says.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 , 27 Bhilwara, Rajasthan Attempts: 3
 
 Currently undergoing training as an IPS officer at Hyderabad Police Academy, Surana decided to improve his rank. After finishing his engineering from IIT-Delhi, Surana got a job with an investment bank in London. He worked there for two years, left to found a startup in Chile with a friend, but returned to India as he missed home, and began preparing for the civil services exams. His other interests are cooking and astrophysics.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 , 24 Osmanabad, Maharashtra Attempts: 4
 
 Three years ago, when Badole, who finished his MBBS in 2014, took the UPSC exam, he failed. This year, he managed an all-India rank of 20 after throwing himself fulltime into preparation and relocating to Pune to focus on his studies. “I really want to work in rural health sector,” says Badole, who is from a family of farmers in rural, drought-hit Osmanabad. Badole studied in a zilla parishad school, then a sainik school and later completed his MBBS from J J Medical College, Mumbai. Initially, Badole says language was a problem. “Then I realised that language doesn’t matter in UPSC. It is all about your knowledge and quality and how you put your thoughts across to the other person.”
 
 
