FARIDABAD: A week after a 15-year-old domestic help escaped from a Faridabad household where she was being brutally   by her employer, a human trafficking racket has been busted with the arrest of two prime accused. Both the accused, including the employer, allegedly   the girl repeatedly.

 Three more girls, who were tied up in a washroom without any food, were rescued during the search operation. 
 
 The 15-year-old was sold by her grandmother for Rs 4,000 to Surender, who took her to his house and raped her for days. After his arrest on Friday, Surender told the police that both Mani Mishra, the girl’s last employer, and his wife were involved in the racket. 
 
 “While Surender initially denied any involvement, he later said he and Mishra were childhood friends and started the racket to make quick money,” said an officer. Mishra had also employed a person, Arun, to keep an eye on the girls. 
 
 The girl had earlier said she was brought to Delhi from her village in Jharkhand with the promise of a better life. “Surender had thrashed and raped me the moment we stepped in his house. He used to beat me up severely. But before sending me at the house of another couple in Delhi, he did not beat me for days so that the bruises disappear.” Surender allegedly sold her off to the couple for Rs 20,000. 
 
 After the contract with the couple got over, Mishra employed her at his house and started raping her, cops said. The girl had escaped with the help of two boys who lived in the same building. 
 
 After a case was registered at a women’s police station under IPC, Arms Act, Juvenile Justice Act and POCSO, a special team was formed to trace the accused. “They were nabbed from the Surajkund police station area on Friday while they were planning to flee the country,” said Savita, SHO of the police station. 
 
 Surender told the police that he used to bring girls from the villages nearby and also from Jharkhand and Bihar and sell each of them for Rs 20,000-Rs.25,000. He also accepted that he had sexually assaulted most of them. Officers said Surender had sold off at least 30 girls to Mishra. 
 
 Rishi Kant from Shakti Vahini said the NGO was helping the police in tracking more girls. 
 
 
