MUMBAI: Long years before books were marketed like artisanal soap and lit fests became as commonplace as fashion week, a little shop in Mumbai’s Fort district had figured out how to hook the reader.   Book Stall managed to attract book lovers from not just the city, but across the country. And it didn’t even have a coffee shop.

 Strand finally pulls its shutters down on February 27 after 70 years. But in many ways, the shop had started dying nine years ago when its passionate proprietor, the twinkle-eyed T N Shanbhag, passed away and with him the famous line, “Hardbound book at paperback prices…” Whether or not it was a great book — for   was known to have a way with dispensing remainder stock from international publishers — the buyer instantly felt compelled to buy it.
 
 Indeed, that winning combination of passion and discount had made Strand a must-do stop for any reader, almost as if by being in there one osmotically became a person of letters. In the days of black and white newsprint, the senior editors of The Times of India would go to Strand after lunch, browse and catch up with Shanbhag, and then stroll back through the arched arcades of DN Road as part of their daily constitutional. Shanbhag used to say about a former Times editor, “Sham Lal’s wife hated me because he spent all his time and money on books.”
 
 Over the years, Strand had footfalls from India’s top journalists, thinkers and writers, many of whom found their reading lists here which went on to shape their work and lives. “I’ve seen Dr  , when he was RBI governor, come and sit there, have a cup of coffee and select 50-100 books,” said historian Deepak Rao.
 
 Writer Kiran Nagarkar has known about the bookstall since it was in the premises of Colaba’s Strand Cinema. Started in 1948, it shifted location in the 1950s. “By the time I’d finished my schooling, he (Shanbhag) had found his place near PM Road. That’s where I first came across the biographies of Ho Chí Minh and Fidel Castro. It was at Strand that I discovered for the first time there’s no country in the world that has played havoc with the democracies of nations like the US. I came to know about authors and books I would have never have known through Strand – Kaputt by Curzio Malaparte or The Fish Can Sing by Halldór Laxness,” Nagarkar said.
 
 Delhi-based publisher and novelist David Davidar recalled, “When I was in my early 20s I lived and worked in Bombay and was a frequent visitor to Strand where Mr Shanbhag would give impoverished journalists such as myself abundant credit to buy the books we craved.”
 
 Some former employees said that within a few months after Shanbhag’s passing, they were advised to stop offering the famous discount. Some felt let down by his successors and left the charming musty haven with heavy hearts to work in other bookstores, attempting the same discount-with-a-smile, while countering the onslaught of the online selling monster. One long-time ex-employee wistfully said, “Strand was a brand; it could easily have been sustained.”
 
 While over the years, a lot of people shifted allegiance to other stores or to Amazon and Kindle, perhaps even with the slight guilt of an ex-lover, the cramped store remained one of the city’s landmarks. Many old-timers will mourn its passing, much like   in Kala Ghoda or Café Naaz at  , or the stone chimneys that punctuated the city before chrome and glass brazenly took over.
 
 For the next seven days, after he finishes lectures at Sir JJ College of Architecture, associate professor Y D Pitkar will be making a pit stop at Strand. As someone buying books here for 40 years, Pitkar has fond memories of Shanbhag's “good smile” and the store’s tactile bounty of rare books. An old-school book lover who loves to touch, feel and smell books, Pitkar finds it hard to graduate to buying ebooks. “You can’t smell books online,” Pitkar said.
 
 While pursuing his MBA at   in 1972, Sam Balsara, chairman of ad agency Madison World, used to frequent Strand for hard-to-find management books. “I was always amazed at how the staff could pull out the right book from the right shelf,” Balsara said, recalling that the arrangement of books at the store didn’t make navigation easy. 
 
 Author Amish Tripathi, whose school Cathedral & John Connon was a stone’s throw away, would scour the shop for history books. “Unlike other book shops that used to store books and music CDs, Strand was a pure bookshop,” he said. Like the typewriter and fountain pen, Strand may have lost its USP a while ago. But it has remained a beloved word for those who cherish a world in which, at least sometimes, everything doesn’t have a point.
 
