Mangaluru: In a major embarrassment to the Congress, a woman corporator from the party has levelled allegations against a senior party leader, of misbehaving with her. The incident led to the suspension of party district general secretary  , with immediate effect on Tuesday.

 Corporator Prathibha Kulai, who was the chairperson of the standing committee on tax appellate and finance of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) council, had alleged that Sathar had misbehaved with her at the office of Mangaluru City South MLA B A Mohiuddin Bava. Prathibha alleged that Sathar used to call her husband from unknown mobile numbers and speak badly about her. “He was harassing me and I filed a complaint with Surathkal police in this regard. However, he continued to harass me. He touched me inappropriately in MLA B A Mohiuddin Bava’s office yesterday, after which I slapped him,” Prathibha told the media. However, Sathar denied all the allegations levelled against him. He claimed that he has not misbehaved with the corporator.
 
 District Congress Committee (DCC) president K Harish Kumar told reporters that the party has   Sathar with immediate effect, soon after the issue was brought to their notice. “We came to know about the incident through TV channels. We took action immediately by suspending Abdul Sathar from the post of party district general secretary,” he added.
 
 Show-cause notice served
 
 District Congress Committee (DCC) president K Harish Kumar served a show-cause notice on Kulai, who is also the general secretary of Karnataka Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee, for making public statements before the media without permission from the party leadership.
 
 “Being a corporator and general secretary of Karnataka Pradesh Mahila Congress Committee you have participated in a discussion on a national TV channel and brought disgrace to the party. Hence, you have to answer as to why action should not be taken against you for participating in that programme without permission,” reads the show-cause notice served on Prathibha.
 
 
