RAIPUR: For a change, common sense became uncommon in the Vidarbha camp. They did most of the things right till the halfway stage of their last game against Uttar Pradesh.

 
 Despite batsmen committing hara-kiri, Vidarbha had things under control till the 19th over. With 10 required in eight balls and two set batsmen - Apoorv Wankhade (33, 32b,2x4) and Karn Sharma (18, 16b, 1x4) - Vidarbha looked favourites.
 
 Wankhade, who was happy with singles and doubles till then, suddenly decided to hit   but didn't get the elevation. Uttar Pradesh skipper   gleefully accepted a skier. Wankhade had finished much tighter games before but this failed this time. Karn Sharma took the single on the last ball and kept the strike for the last over.
 
 Sharma hasn't had much of opportunity this year. This was his chance to finish the game. With 9 to win in the last over, Sharma wanted to start with boundary but was cleaned up by Amit Mishra. Mishra then bowled a short one to Gurbani. He pulled too well and hit straight to deep square leg boundary. Vidarbha had lost three wickets in four balls.
 
  tried his best but couldn't hit the boundaries. Mishra kept his cool to finish with figures of 3-0-10-4 to take Uttar Pradesh to an exciting seven-run victory in their Central Zone   on Monday.
 
 Vidarbha, who were 120-5 in 18 overs, managed 131-8 in their 20 overs after Uttar Pradesh posted a fighting 137-8 at Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh Stadium here in Raipur. Vidarbha's qualification now depends on the outcome of Uttar Pradesh-Chhattisgarh game on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 With the Sun beating down, the wicket has become slower, especially in the afternoon. The run scoring isn't easy. Uttar Pradesh won the toss and rightly chose to bat. Openers Shivam Choudhary and   got UP to a sound start. The intent was clear. UP needed two big victories for Super League berth and for that to happen, they needed good score on the board.
 
 Faiz brought his crisis man Ravi Thakur (4-0-29-3) in the fifth over. He was hit for a boundary on his first ball but bounced back to dismiss Kanwar. Gurbani bowled a testing over to Choudhary and Raina. Faiz introduced leg-spinner Sharma into the attack. Sharma struck on the third ball to get rid of Raina. He flighted the ball and put the fielder in right place. Raina obliged and hit straight to substitute Jitesh Sharma.
 
 Sharma and off-spinner Wakhare then dried up the runs. Rinku Singh emulated his skipper only to get holed out at long on as Wankhade completed a good running catch. Akshdeep Nath and Choudhary resurrected the innings with some sensible batting.
 
 Nath and Choudhary added 61 in 48 balls and set for the death overs onslaught when Thakur again showed his utility. He dismissed both set batsmen in successive balls. Wagh (4-0-28-3) struck twice in three balls in the next over to dismiss the dangerous   and Mishra.
 
 Vidarbha chase got off to the worst possible start. Opener Akshay Wadkar got out without scoring in seven balls.   too perished while trying to hit lofted shot. Akshay Karnewar's 12-ball 20 provided some momentum with calculated hitting. However, he got too carried away and hit one straight to long off. 
 
 A mix-up with Wankhade led Faiz's (32, 31b, 2x4, 1x6) departure when the two were going well. Ravi Jangid was unlucky to be given out as the ball hit his arm on its way to keeper. Wankhade and Sharma then got together and added 38 in 32 balls and almost saw Vidarbha through before both lost their cool. 
 
