Given the family she belongs to, actress   calls herself ‘moderately famous’ and has no qualms on being called Taimur’s aunt. Soha highlights the joys of motherhood but in the very next breath says that it is not as easy and rosy as it is always portrayed. In a quick chat, the actress, who was recently in Bengaluru for the  , talks about her family, juggling between her writing and motherhood. Excerpts…

 
 
 I’m still very moderately famous and I think I’ll always be. My parents have scaled the heights in their respective careers and have been on top of their game. My father was the captain of the Indian cricket team and my mother was the National Award winner many times. The idea is not to become more famous through these (writing) achievements. I enjoy being in this middle space of being moderately famous, as you have the access that a famous person has but can you enjoy anonymity once in a while. I do really value my anonymity from time to time.
 
 
 
 It is completely different. At home we have more staff now to look after my daughter Inaaya, since both Kunal and I are working. We have no guest room because we have a nursery now. I had a routine when I would do yoga and go to the gym and waking up late. Now, I sleep late and wake up early. Sleep has gone out of the window. Everything is about her. I used to have other priorities first but now she’s my priority. Being a parent is a huge responsibility and you should do it when you are ready and absolutely sure.
 
 
 
 She said invest in good staff because it’s important especially if you want to work. She also said get to know the baby. ‘The more you spend time with your child, the more you will get to know her temperament and you will be able to address her needs’ is what she said.
 
 
 
 It’s very different now. When I was a kid, we didn’t have this sort of exposure, we didn’t have social media. But I think everyone understands now that these are the perils of being celebrity parents and that your child will also be exposed to media. Your only concern as a parent is to make your child feel safe. We put ourselves in such a situation and we understand that we have to give up our privacy, but it’s unfair that it becomes a part of your child’s life as well. When I was young,   wasn’t so prevalent. Social media is a huge game changer and it has become very intrusive now.
 
 
 
 My mother was very excited and she said ‘finally’ because she has wanted me to write a book for a long time. She was the most excited that I took out the time to write. She read every chapter as I kept writing and gave me feedback also. My brother was also excited though I told him about the book a little later. He read a few chapters and would laugh over the phone while discussing it, which was very encouraging. And, of course, Kunal (Kemmu, her husband) also read since I was writing it in front of him.
 
 
 I don’t think you can think that way, especially when you are writing something that is personal. The challenge is to be honest and to tell the story you want to tell and to get the people to feel what it is that you were feeling so that they relate. I love books that have touched me, they either make me laugh or move me to tears. That’s the power of language, it can transport you. Apart from being honest, you can’t really write for a reader.
 
 
 
 Yes I did. I am not a writer who has a system. My most productive writing was late at night after dinner, when the house went to sleep. But there were times when I got stuck and I didn’t know how to go further. That time my friend told me that I was being too hard on myself and that’s why I had reached a block. She asked me to step away from it and look at it in a positive way and that’s what I did. I stepped away from it for a while and when I got back, the writing flowed in easily.
 
 
 
 All of them have a book in them. My father’s story needs to be told. His life is also a movie and a book. He had seen so much from the political climate changing, to princely titles being abolished. He became from the Nawab of Pataudi to just being Mr Khan. He lost an eye at the age of 20 and he was selected for the Indian cricket team after that. He fell in love with this glamorous   and it was a Hindu-Muslim marriage.
 
 
 
