CHANDIGARH: The city now has a forest where people can go for a leisurely walk amid the wilderness or even for a workout. 

 UT administrator V P Singh Badnore threw open the 100-hectare Nagar Van, or City Forest, located behind the Sukhna Lake, here on Tuesday. The forest has been developed at a cost of Rs 2 crore and has walkways, jogging and nature trails, shallow water bodies, visitors' shed, rain shelter, meditation hut, a children's park, and even an open-air  , said a press release issued by the UT administration.
 
 Chandigarh parliamentarian Kirron Kher was also present at the opening of the UT forest department property. The forest was thrown open to students as soon as it opened, as around 100 students of New Public School, Sector 18, participated in a walk at the forest. To mark the forest's inauguration, the administrator also planted a sapling of peepal.
 
 The administrator appreciated the efforts made by the forest department in developing Van Forest. "We can now even develop it as a destination for bird-lovers," he said.
 
 UT chief conservator of forests   said the forest under the department's Lake Beat.
 
 He added that the forest department has also developed a bio-treatment method to sewage flowing out of Kansal village in Punjab, so that it could be used for filling a shallow water body developed in the park.
 
 "We have constructed a water channel of about 2km to divert this sewage to the pond as part Nagar Van Udyan Yojana. "We have used a wild grass (Saccharum munja), rice straw, gravel, and iron ores in the channel to oxidise the water," he said.
 
 He added that they had checked the water which they had treated through the method, and found that biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) levels had been reduced from 70-80 mg/I before treatment to 7-11 mg/I after treatment, and chemical oxygen demand (COD) levels from 200-210 mg/l to 27-32 mg/l. The tests were carried out by Chandigarh Pollution Control Board (CPCB), he added. 
 
 Later, Badnore also released a book, titked 'Birds of Chandigarh'.
 
 
