PATNA: In a major administrative reshuffle, the state government on Tuesday transferred and changed responsibilities of 12 senior IAS officials and appointed Deepak Kumar as the new   of the state.

 Deepak, an IAS official of 1984 batch, was repatriated to his home cadre (Bihar) from central deputation on May 17. He was the chairman of the National Highway Authority of India. Prior to going on central deputation, Deepak was development commissioner of Bihar with additional charge of principal secretary in vigilance department.
 
 Shahsi Shekhar Sharma, a 1985 batch officer of Bihar cadre, has been made the new development commissioner. Sharma will continue holding additional charge of director general (DG) of Bihar Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development, Walmi. The appointments of Deepak and Shashi will be made effective from May 31, when outgoing chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh will retire.
 
 Tripurai Sharan, principal secretary in environment and forests department, has been given the additional charge of principal secretary in vigilance department. Similarly, Amrit Lal Meena, who is presently serving as principal secretary in road construction department, has been given additional charge of principal secretary in panchayati raj department as well as managing director of Bihar State Road Development Corporation Limited (BSRDCL). 
 
 Anshuli Arya of 1989 batch, principal secretary in science and technology department, has been made principal secretary-cum-mines commissioner in mines and geology department with additional charge of managing director of Bihar State Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. Harjot Kaur Bamhrah will replace Arya as the principal secretary in science and technology department.
 
 Similarly, T N Bindhyeshwari, a 1990 batch IAS official, who is presently serving as divisional commissioner of Purnia division, has been made divisional commissioner of Magadh division. Bindhyeshwari will take the place of Jitendra Srivastava, who has been appointed as secretary in public health engineering department along with additional charge of chairman of Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL). The present chairman of BRPNNL, Mayank Warwade, has been transferred as divisional commissioner of Darbhanga division. 
 
 Safina A N, divisional commissioner of Kosi division, has been made the new divisional commissioner of Purnia division.
 
 Atul Prasad, principal secretary of social welfare department, has been transferred to the cooperative department as principal secretary.
 
 Vinay Kumar, secretary in rural works department, has been made secretary to chief minister in the chief minister’s secretariat.
 
 
