ALAPPUZHA: Inaugurating the   convention for the upcoming assembly bypoll in Chengannur on Tuesday,   said that only LDF can fight the communal forces in India.

 “NDA is perishing and parties are leaving the alliance. BJP was defeated in Uttar Pradesh and other states. People have lost faith in the government.   has bowed down before the RSS and many of its leaders are joining BJP. The way ahead is to strengthen Left front and secular forces to fight communal forces,” he said.
 
 At the same time CPI state secretary   exuded confidence that LDF will receive maximum votes in Chengannur. In a veiled reference to KC(M) & KM Mani, Rajendran said that if anybody supported the LDF in the bypoll, it did not mean that the supporter would be considered as an ally. He added that KC(M) had votes only in Pala. “This bypoll result will be an evaluation of the LDF rule in Kerala,” he said.
 
 Citing how the no-confidence motion was not moved in the Lok Sabha, Vijayan said that the move was aimed at destroying democracy. The chief minister said that the RSS is moving ahead with its agenda to destroy Muslims, Christians and communists. “Their agenda is to eliminate all opponents. RSS is creating violence in BJP-ruled states and the victims belong to SC/ST community. RSS is treating dalits as Shudras,” he said, adding that Congress’s wrong policies helped the BJP grow.
 
 Sobhana George bats for CPM candidate: Former   Sobhana George started campaigning for CPM candidate Saji Cherian in Chengannur. George, who attended the poll campaign in Chengannur, said that she was not a member of the CPM. “I have decided to campaign for Saji Cherian,” she said.
 
 She had recently met CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan and Saji Cherian sought her support. Cherian was instrumental in bringing her to the LDF camp. Congress leadership had recently said that they wouldn’t allow Sobhana’s re-entry as she ensured the defeat of UDF candidate PC Vishnunath in 2016 assembly polls.
 
 Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, LDF candidate Saji Cherian, LDF leaders, MP Veerendra Kumar, R Balakrishna Pillai, CK Nanu, Kadannappally Ramachandran and others were present at the function.
 
 
