PATNA: No respite from   and fog is likely at least till this weekend as the India Meteorological Department ( ) on Wednesday issued fresh warning for dense to very dense fog along with cold to severe cold day conditions in all the 38 districts in the state till January 21.

  is witnessing the longest spell of foggy weather this winter season with majority parts of the state enveloped in dense to very dense fog cover from past 22 days now. The absence of sunshine for most hours of the day due to dense fog causes cold and severe cold conditions.
 
 In meteorological parlance, cold day condition is declared when the minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature. Severe cold day, on the other hand, is declared when the minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of more than 6.5 degrees C in maximum temperature.
 
 Patna witnessed probably the densest foggy conditions this winter on Tuesday night when visibility was reduced to less than 50 metres from 11pm till 8:30am on Wednesday.
 
 Weathermen attributed the extreme dense foggy weather in the state capital on Tuesday night to low wind speed. “Wind was almost calm (less than 0.1 kmph) at Patna, which supported the formation of fog on Tuesday,” said a meteorologist at Patna meteorological centre.
 
 Weather experts claimed that low temperature and wind speed, along with high level of humidity, form conducive conditions for fog formation. 
 
 Fog apart, the prevailing acute wintry conditions are expected to worsen further under the influence of western disturbances over east   and adjoining Pakistan on Wednesday. Weather forecasting agencies are expecting snow or showers in Jammu and Kashmir and neighbouring   over the next couple of days due to the approaching western disturbances.
 
 Western disturbances are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter snow or rainfall in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 An all-India weather bulletin issued by IMD on Wednesday said: “The present western disturbances over east Afghanistan and adjoining Pakistan are likely to move away northeast wards during the next 48 hours. Associated changes in wind pattern might cause a fall in the night minimum temperatures by 2-3 degrees C over the plains of northwest India, subsequently. Cold wave and ground frost are likely over parts of northwest and central India during the next four days and dense fog and cold day over eastern plains during next five days.”
 
 Meteorologists at Patna centre ruled out the possibility of the western disturbances causing much impact on the prevailing weather conditions in Bihar, but claimed that it may lead to furthermore shivery conditions in the event of cold northwesterly winds blowing from the snow-laden western  .
 
 
