HYDERABAD: The annual   began on Sunday, reliving the social, cultural and religious tradition started by the Qutub Shahi kings about five centuries ago. Over the decades the landscape of Hyderabad, founded by   Qutub Shah V in 1591 CE, may have changed but the traditional celebrations associated with the Moula   have only become stronger.

 Religious fervour reached a crescendo at the Moula Ali shrine with thousands of pilgrims thronging it. On Sunday, over a dozen processions from different partsof the city reached the Moula Ali hill carrying Sehra (festoon). Social activist Ali Raza, who led one of the Sehra processions, said the Moula Ali Urs forms one of the important religious events of Deccan. “We have revived the tradition of carrying Sehra in a procession, which was stopped in 1947-48,” he said.
 
 This year’s week-long celebrations at the hill shrine dedicated to  , son-in-law of Prophet Mohammad, also coincides with the 453rd birth anniversary of Mohammad Quli Qutub Shah V. Incidentally, Mohammad Quli (born April 4, 1565), the builder of Charminar, had named the city he founded after Hazrat Imam Ali, whose many appellations include Haider (lion). Hyderabad, thus translates to ‘the city of the lion’. Also, the birth anniversary of the last ruler of princely state of Hyderabad, Nawab Mir Osman Ali Khan, falls on April 6.
 
 Thousands of people participated in a motor rally from   to Moula Ali shrine. Police kept a vehicle to carry patients and elderly to the shrine from Rachakonda. It is one of the few shrines visited by both Hindus and Muslims.
 
 Ali Asgar Bilgrami, who served as officiating director of Hyderabad state archaeology during 1922-24, in his Landmarks of the Deccan mentions sandal procession of Moula Ali Urs. “The sandal of Moula Ali is annually carried on the back of a camel with great pomp from the graveyard of Rang Ali Shah. After this, follows another sandal for safety of His Highness (the ruler) from Panja Shah and is carried to Moula Alihill,” hewrote.
 
 Ironically, there has been virtually no development of the shrine in 100 years. The facilities provided by the Nizam have not been improved. Encroachments have taken a heavy toll on the area surrounding the heritage hill. The Caravan serai built by poetess warrior Mah Laqa Chanda about 200 years ago has disappeared, so is the garden laid near the hill. The Shahabad stone steps leading to the hill were built by the Nizam. The shrine’s decoration with glass-work was done by Nawab Imdad Jung Bahadur. Nizam II, Nizam AliKhan, constructed outhouses. He conferred a jagir in   for theshrine’s maintenance. The Naqarkhana built by Maharaja Chandu Lal Bahadur has also disappeared. Moula Ali Kaman was built by musician Khushhal Khan, teacher of Mah Laqa Chanda.
 
