NAGPUR: Ten activists of   ( ) and Nationalist Students Council (NSC) were detained on Saturday after they burned an effigy of education minister Vinod Tawde during their   against Students Council of Nagpur University.

 They also slammed the   (ABVP), whose members were elected unopposed as the president and secretary of the council during its first meeting on Saturday.
 
 The activists are upset over the university's move to nominate candidates backed by BJP-RSS on the council. The students demanded cancellation of the list and VC SP Kane's resignation if he fails to fulfil their demands.
 
 As per the state government’s decision, the NU constituted the council after selecting students on the basis of their academic performance. The new Act prescribed holding elections for students’ council but since statutes and other guidelines couldn’t be prepared before start of academic session, the old system of nominations was preferred.
 
 The youth wings had alleged a great deal of secrecy in nominations on the students council since NU started the process last month. Later, the activists also questioned the varsity’s move to set up the council just 10 days ahead of the summer exams. The tenure too would be not more than one month.
 
 They alleged that the NU administration was keen on pleasing the   and  , which is in power.
 
 Sitabuldi police said the detained activists were let off after issuing warnings. No offence was registered against them. 
 
 NSUI and NSC led by Ajit Singh and Shailendra Tiwari said NU didn’t follow the due procedure in electing the president and secretary of the council.
 
 ABVP’s Ashish Mohite and Akash Thantharte were elected unopposed as president and secretary of the council. NSUI and NSC had boycotted the election, that was held on Saturday during the first meeting of the council.
 
 Demanding the resignation of Kane, the youth leaders Singh and Tiwari said it is clear the VC acted under pressure of the RSS and BJP and he must explain on what grounds the colleges were chosen to nominate students and what the council would achieve in just one month.
 
 
