GURUGRAM: The government and developers have failed to reach a consensus on the cost of takeover of privately developed colonies like DLF 1, 2, 3, Sushant Lok 1,   and Suncity by  , even a year has passed since chief minister   announced it. Residents cited differences on the cost as the major hurdle in the transfer of these colonies to the civic body.

 As per government norms, a developer can either get infrastructure work done as per detailed project report (DPR) within six months of the start of the takeover or pay the cost of infrastructure upgrade to MCG before the takeover. TOI had earlier reported that Ansal API Limited refused to pay Rs 92crore that the department of town and country planning (DTCP) demanded for maintenance and infrastructure upgrade of Sushant Lok 1 before its takeover based on a DPR prepared by an agency hired by MCG. The developer objected to the fact that MCG wanted them to pay maintenance for five years (2018 to 2022) after it had handed over occupation to owners in tranches for several decades and even maintenance to the RWA three years ago. 
 
 Similar objections have been raised by other developers, said sources. “Most of the developers have objected to costs mentioned in DPRs and are not willing to pay for operation and maintenance of the colonies. These issues were discussed at a meeting held on March 28 but nothing has been settled yet,” said an MCG official, requesting anonymity.The next meeting in this regard is scheduled for March 15. According to officials, Suncity is the only developer who agreed to get infrastructure work done before the takeover. 
 
 The developer, however, contested the claim, saying there was not enough clarity on the matter yet. “MCG is itself not clear on its stand about this takeover. We are still discussing costs involved, and meanwhile, the township is being run by the RWA with our support,” said Ankit Goel, director, Suncity Projects. 
 
 The cost of takeover for Suncity has been estimated to be nearly Rs 18crore as per the DPR. An MCG official said that the developer agreed to get work done as per the DPR so that the takeover could be completed. 
 
 Officials familiar with the takeover process said that the developers might move court against the MCG takeover in case negotiations with the government failed. Ansal API Limited has already written to the government in this regard and said it had no option of exercising its judicial rights as the government was forcing decisions upon it.
 
 
