AJMEDABAD: Their names lead people to mistake them for  , but the   (Sons of Israel)  , with about 5,000 members across India and 140 in Ahmedabad, has held its own here for 2,000 years.

 As   becomes the first Israeli PM to visit Ahmedabad on January 17, the community is upbeat. They will greet Netanyahu and PM Narendra Modi near Sabarmati Ashram on a special stage.
 
 Benjamin Reuben, president of the Magen Abraham Synagogue, the only one in Gujarat, said that there euphoria among the community. “The Israeli PM coming to our own city is an exhilarating feeling. The community shares deep ties with Israel with a number of Bene Israel Jews making that country their home. We have also been participating in Maccabiah Games (the international Jewish and Israeli sports meet) regularly. The last meeting between the two PMs in Israel was also fruitful. Our countries can collaborate on issues such as agriculture, water management and salinity management,” he said.
 
 Noted Indian Jewish author Esther David said that it is believed that the community arrived on the Konkan coast after being shipwrecked. “In Alibaug, there is sacred rock where it is believed that Prophet Elijah made sacred markings. It is a sacred site for the community. Like mannat in Hinduism and Islam, today Jews make a wish and when it is fulfilled, they offer malida to the Prophet,” she said.
 
 The community was centered in the Konkan area and later moved to Mumbai during British rule. They also took up the Marathi tradition of identifying their native village in their surname. The first synagogue was constructed in 1796. Jews came to Ahmedabad primarily as professionals or government officials. Dr Abraham Erulkar, one of the early Jewish settlers here, set up a prayer hall at his home in the Pankornaka area. His son Dr Solomon Erulkar played a significant role in setting up the Magen Abraham Synagogue in Khamasa in 1934.
 
 “Despite being few in number, the community in Ahmedabad boasts of two Padma Shri recipients – while Reuben David, the founder of Kankaria Zoo, got the award in 1975, Dr Esther Solomon, a prominent Sanskrit scholar, was felicitated in 1992. Members of the community members are known for their contribution in the fields of education and social service,” said Aviv Divekar, secretary of the Magen Abraham Synagogue.
 
 
