NEW DELHI: Just past noon, the almost empty coaches of Delhi Metro’s Pink   speed on the tracks at 85 kmph. Far away from operational section of the corridor, cameras on the   and   the coaches are beaming images live on 24 different monitors inside the cavernous, silent operations   room at   Bhawan on Fire Brigade Lane near Barakhamba Road. From running or stopping the trains to controlling platform screen doors and fire control, every aspect of train operations on the line is centralised.

 
 
 Over the years, Delhi Metro has strived to provide state-of-the-art services. In its endeavour to introduce the latest and best technology from around the world, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) last year adopted the Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) signalling system for the Magenta and Pink Lines, using it first when the first section of the former (Botanical Garden to Kalkaji Mandir) started operating.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 CBTC, known popularly as ‘driverless’ technology, allows metro to run trains without human intervention, with operations overseen from a centralised operations control centre. The trains are currently operating with drivers, but DMRC plans to remove them in a couple of years and turn the trains truly  .
 
 Delhi Metro’s first operations control centre is at Shastri Park, from where its older corridors, such as the Red and Yellow Lines, are monitored. The Magenta and Pink Lines required a different set up and that is why DMRC came up with a new operations centre at its headquarters, Metro Bhawan.
 
 While the first section of Magenta Line was opened in December last year, the first section of Pink Line between Majlis Park and Durgabai Deshmukh South Campus stations began in March this year. These corridors will become fully functional in phases in the next few months.
 
 The biggest difference between the old and new technologies is that the CBTC is based on live videos streamed from inside and outside the trains. A huge screen at the control centre, divided into 24 different panels, show real time video from the operational line inside the centre. A team of 20 controllers and engineers are on duty in each of the day’s three shifts and their work starts with checking that everything is in place, including the systems controlling braking, electronic displays and the public announcements.
 
 “There is a cycle of videos, and all trains are monitored by turn,” explained a DMRC official. “Say, a passenger presses the emergency button in a train. In such a case, live video from that train automatically pops up on the screen.” The official also revealed that apart from live videos, there also are obstacle detection systems in the trains, so that if a large object lay ahead or a person falls on the track, it can be immediately spotted.
 
 Two giant screens display the track layout of the two corridors, with small moving blips indicating an accurate location of the trains. Each train has an ID number allotted, and the traffic controllers watching the screens monitor and control their movement.
 
 The tunnel ventilation system is also controlled from Metro Bhawan, and, said the official, if a train stopped at a location for an abnormal time, the system started the ventilation process so that passengers aren’t left feeling suffocated. Fires can also be easily detected and the ventilation system helps blow the smoke away from the location of passengers.
 
 But the movement of trains on the tracks is not the control centre’s only capability. It is from there that even elevators and escalators are controlled. Officials at the centre can also make public announcements along the entire corridor or at individual stations right from Fire Brigade Lane.
 
 DMRC says that CBTC is the safest technology available worldwide for metro train operations at present. “This technology is completely automated and chances of human error are almost negligible as to be fool-proof,” said Mangu Singh, DMRC managing director. He added that while CBTC was capable of running trains at a frequency of 90 seconds, the time between trains was not set to that standard, given that the frequency on other corridors is two minutes 15 seconds at present.
 
 
