Bhopal: At least four IPS officers and 13 TIs, who led Piplani police station in Bhopal from 2011 to February 2018, face the high court’s wrath over their ‘casual’ attitude towards arresting a BHEL employee ‘wanted’ in a forgery case registered seven years ago. 

 The HC on Wednesday pulled up 2011 batch IPS officer  , who is currently SP-South, and other police officers who were summoned for the hearing of accused S K Vishwakarma’s third anticipatory bail plea. In his eight-page order, Justice G S Ahluwalia expressed strong displeasure on the replies filed by Lodha and other officers, terming it ‘unsatisfactory’.
 
 The court has ordered police to present a list of all SPs concerned and Piplani TIs in the last seven years, along with their current addresses, so that accountability of each officer can be fixed. Police have submitted the names.
 
 SP Lodha, CSP-Govindpura   and TI-Piplani   were in court during the two-hour hearing. They were asked why they had failed to comply with the court’s order of November 25, 2014, to arrest Vishwakarma and submit a status report. Lodha submitted before court that after taking charge as SP-South he declared a cash reward of Rs 3,000 for Vishwakarma’s arrest and admitted that no action was taken to declare him a ‘proclaimed offender’ under Sections 82/83 of CrPC. The court ruled that the reply was not satisfactory.
 
 Vishwakarma’s counsel,  , alleged that police had made a false submission. “The applicant (Vishwakarma) never absconded. He was working as an assistant engineer in BHEL, Bhopal, and attended his services without any default,” said Singh.
 
 To counter this, police submitted Roznamchasana (daily diary) records to show that on some occasions, police had gone to Vishwakarma’s house and spoke with his wife and daughter, but since his “whereabouts could not be known”, they came back. The court, however, ruled that only paperwork was done. 
 
 The Bhopal Police counsel said that the cops are “trying their best” to arrest Vishwakarma but now all his mobile phones have been switched off. His last location was traced in Sidhi where a team is trying to arrest him, he said. This statement didn’t work either. The court observed, “It is very astonishing that police start taking action only when senior officers are summoned in court.”
 
 “From the facts of the case, it is clear that offence was registered in 2011. More than six years have passed but in utter disregard to Section 173(1) of CrPC, which provides that an investigating officer shall conclude the investigation without any undue delay, the officer has kept investigation pending and unfortunately, it is still pending. It is a reflection on the working of the investigating officers who are not able to conclude the investigation and come to a conclusion on whether any offence has been made out or not,” the court observed.
 
 Justice G S Ahluwalia also questioned why Bhopal SP did not take action against CSP-Govindpura for not responding to showcause notices. “When he (SP) is happy with the non-response by CSP-Govindpura to his general showcause notice, then he himself is responsible for the same,” the court observed.
 
 Justice Ahluwalia wrote in his order that “keeping the investigation pending for six long years without any reasonable reason, cannot be said that the investigating officers were serious towards the investigation”. Since the reply proposed by the state has not been found to be satisfactory, at the request of government advocate, some more time is granted to the authorities to file specific reply, pointing out the lapses on the part of police officers, reads the order.
 
 Lodha, Mishra and Bhargava have been asked to be present in court during next hearing. 
 
 
