   is facing his toughest electoral battle yet, against a  . He tells Swati Mathur his government is not facing  , and the Left has not proposed equidistance from Congress and BJP. 

  
 
 
  Combating extremism has been our biggest achievement. Peace was shattered because of differences extremists tried to create between tribals and non-tribals. Tripura is a cosmopolitan crowd. We said religion is personal, but state and country are for all. People are central to our government. The precondition of development is connectivity; roads, rail, air and telecom. We built roads, we are a power surplus state, and the quality of life of people in Tripura has improved. Per capita income, when we started work in 1998, was less than Rs 11,000. Today, it is Rs 80,000. Of course, everyone is not equal, but this is the average. We sought to attain self-sufficiency in production of foodgrains. We have surpassed Kerala on literacy rates. Tripura won the best state award for women's literacy rate. 
 
  
 
 
 Our target is generation of revenue from within the state. Tourism is important. The entire state has tourist potential, but this could not have been achieved without the measures we needed to strengthen infrastructure. We have identified 17-25 destinations in Tripura which we are building as tourist destinations. 
 
 Growth and development of industry is the other key area we plan to work on. Tripura will be the gateway to Southeast Asia. Investors have started showing interest. MSME units have increased in the past few years. We want to attract people to the rubber sector. Apart from horticultural produce, we have medicinal plants and bamboo.
 
  
 
 
  We are not facing anti-incumbency in Tripura. We did not bluff people. We remained conscious of our limitations, and progressed in a measured way to deliver what we promised. If we faced problems, we took to the people and told them about our constraints. The gap between what we promised and what we could not deliver is small. So there is no anti-incumbency. That is why the slogan, 'More good, More seat', to set up the eighth Left Front government came from the grassroots of Tripura. I picked it up from the people.
 
  
 
 
 Many tribals joined social reforms movements under communist CM Dasarath Deb. When Left Front government was formed, it implemented their demands seeking formation of tribal areas autonomous district council under sixth schedule, recognition of their mother tongue as a state language, reservation in education and employment, and restoration of illegally transferred tribal land. What you see now are calculated moves. The Prime Minister's Office met with IPFT people. Home minister also met them. How can a national political party running the government align with such elements? IPFT demands separate Twipraland. BJP is weakening the unity of India by dividing people on religion, caste and creed. 
 
  
 
  Our draft political resolution for the 22nd party congress identifies BJP as the key enemy. It is a bourgeois political party. Congress was the same, but it is not in power. We are prepared to go with whoever suggests alternative economic policies. Those willing to counter communal fascist forces are also welcome. Electoral tactics will be decided at the time of elections. We have not said equidistance. That is very, very clear. This is a practical line. In many crucial situations, we have extended support to Congress; in presidential and vice-presidential polls, for instance. We are not rigid. We take very practical, pragmatic and flexible stands. Our main concern is how best to provide an alternative that can take care of the problems of the masses. 
 
 
