Vasco: The Indian Navy will get an opportunity to put its recently inducted Scorpene-class submarine, the INS Kalvari, through its paces and simultaneously gain from the French navy’s operational know-how during the Indo-French naval exercises, Varuna 2018. The bilateral maritime exercises began on March 19 at the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT), Vasco, with the harbor phase, and will continue over the next two months. THe INS Kalvari, a conventional diesel-electric submarine, was commissioned by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in mid-December 2017 and has been designed by French firm DCNS. Naval sources said the Indian Navy is keen to enhance INS Kalvari’s operations for anti-surface warfare (attacking surface ships) and anti-submarine warfare (destroying submarines) in the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal, especially since Chinese submarines have been foraying into the Indian Ocean Region (IOR).  Over the past two years, People Liberation Army Navy submarines are frequently present in the IOR, making periodic forays into the Arabian Sea. “Maritime security is a priority of our defence and security policy, alongside the fight against terrorism,” joint commander of the French naval forces deployed in the Indian ocean rear admiral Didier Piaton said. “As a strong symbol of the strategic partnership, the Varuna exercises aim at strengthening the common knowledge and the interoperability of both, French and Indian navies.” France has brought its nuclear attack submarine FS Perle and the anti-submarine warfare frigate Jean de Vienne for the exercises. “The Jean De Vienne is ready for operational know-how exchanges with the three Indian vessels participating in the exercise — INS Mumbai, INS Trikand and INS Kalvari,” Piaton said. “For the next four days, our sailors will evolve through different scenarios conducted during a combined anti-submarine exercise, air defence exercise, firing, asymmetric warfare and other exercises.” “Maritime cooperation between France and India will be crucial to maintain the safety of international sea lanes for unimpeded commerce and communication in accordance with international law, for building maritime domain awareness and for greater coordination in regional and international fora in the region,” said flag officer commander Western fleet rear admiral MA Hampiholi.  The navies of India and France will hold the bilateral maritime exercises in the Arabian Sea, the Bay of Bengal and South Western Indian Ocean till May. The Indian Navy’s P8-I anti-submarine aircraft, Dornier maritime patrol aircraft and Mig 29K fighter aircraft will also participate in Varuna 2018.