Nagpur: Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said on Thursday the Army and paramilitary have effectively used force in Kashmir. “Some elements need to be dealt only with might, because in Kashmir the miscreants are right in the neighbourhood,” he said. Bhagwat referred to Muslims of Kashmir Valley as those who have accepted the faith of invaders who marauded the area in the past. Bhagwat added that among them there is an intellectual class, which has conserved heritage of the land as well. “Copies of ancient texts have been preserved and it’s them who are also concerned about its survival. The cultural heritage shows that Kashmir is an integral part of India. Even if broken into pieces, stones of the temples bear testimony that it’s India.” he said. Bhagwat was speaking at a function to inaugurate Saptasindhu Mahotsava, a four-day event to showcase the heritage of Jammu & Kashmir, organized by NGO Jammu Kashmir Study Centre (JKSC). The Sarsanghachalak’s remarks on the Army comes at a time there have been allegations of use of excessive force in the valley, with a FIR filed in a firing incident at Shopian. “In our country, we consider truth to be supreme. But you need power to even establish the truth. This is because for the rest of the world, might is right. If we refer to the entire history of Kashmir, it is seen that the Army and paramilitary have with ultimate dedication and sacrifice maintained a strong grip over the region. It is necessary as well, because the mischief mongers right in the neighbourhood can only be dealt with might,” said Bhagwat. “A feeling of unity needs to be fostered as well. Those who hurl stones at a public bus must understand that if it had been done during the freedom struggle, it damaged what was the British government’s property. Now it’s self rule, so the loss is ours as well. There is a segment which pays taxes to create facilities like the public bus. Others, who don’t pay taxes, only enjoy the facilities,” said Bhagwat. The exhibition by JKSC brings out the fact that every inch of Jammu, Kashmir or Ladakh is India. There are similarities in names as well. Had it not been part of India, even the name Srinagar may have not been there, he said. Bhagwat said India is not the kind of federation where different segments have come together as one. Rather, the entire country has been one always, he said.