GURUGRAM: In its first meeting since   became functional, the Allottees Grievances Redressal Forum ( ) met to declare that it would shift its focus from resolving issues rising out of delay in delivering possession — which falls under the purview of H-Rera — to problems faced by   after they are handed over possession of their property. 

 Deputy commissioner (DC)   directed developers to file detailed replies on the issues raised by residents, and fixed April 28 as the next date of meeting. The last AGRF meeting was held in October 2017. “This meeting was held after a long gap, so the next meeting has been scheduled in a month’s time,” said Singh, adding a large number of people living in privately developed colonies are facing multiple issues, which the forum will focus from now on.
 
 The state government had constituted the AGRF in Gurugram, with the DC as chairman, in September 2015, to resolve problems of buyers in private developer areas in a time-bound manner. So far, it has held six meetings — the first in September 2015, followed by three in 2016 (in January, August and September), once in October 2017 and Tuesday’s meeting — and taken up over 120 complaints in all.
 
 The non-statutory AGRF was formed to resolve complaints of homebuyers, from delayed possession, no construction at site and refunds. With H-Rera Gurugram becoming functional in February, and most of these issues coming under its purview, AGRF shifted its focus to problems facing residents of older privately developed colonies.
 
 From now on, all projects for which occupation certificates (OC) haven’t been granted, or ones that are under construction, as well as freshly launched ones, will come under H-Rera. Meanwhile, AGRF will address problems of residents in colonies or townships that have received OCs and are occupied, but are yet to be transferred to MCG.
 
 As per rule, a developer can give possession after receiving part or full OC, but the township or colony can only be handed over to MCG after it receives completion certificate (CC), ie, only after all developmental work in common areas is completed. “Usually, developers hold back minor work in common areas so that they don’t have to apply for CC, and keep collecting maintenance from residents,” said an official.
 
 The AGRF on Wednesday took up seven complaints against six developers, all of which were related to maintenance in older colonies. One of the cases that received maximum attention was filed by Joginder Singh on behalf of residents of Sushant Lok 2 and 3, alleging that the developer is not maintaining civic infrastructure while charging high maintenance fees. “We’ve been demanding they hand over maintenance of non-essential services like security, power back-up and housekeeping to the RWA. Also, CC should be granted to the colony so that it can be transferred to MCG,” said Singh.
 
 District town planner (DTP) R S Batth said, “Developers were directed to give point-wise replies with audited statements of money collected for maintenance.” 
 
 
