GUNTUR: The   leadership in the state is in a quandary on how to tackle the onslaught launched by all political parties, particularly its ally   ( ) after the Union budget failed to grant the promised sops to the state. 

 The BJP seems to be cornered and unable to combat the barrage of criticism. Except for stating that they are still hopeful of Prime Minister Narendra Modi doing justice to the state, the BJP leadership has switched itself into silent mode.
 
 The image of the BJP has taken a beating after the TDP leadership started openly criticising the injustice meted out to the state by the Centre in Thursday’s Union budget. In a clever move to divert the anger of the public over the Centre’s cold-shouldering of major projects — including the proposed railway zone at Visakhapatnam and funds for construction of capital city Amaravati — on the BJP, the TDP leadership has joined the chorus of protests. 
 
 Although chief minister   has been treading cautiously on snapping of ties with the NDA, party leaders and cadres have gone overboard on their attacks against the Union budget. “We had alerted our party’s central leadership long ago about the cunning politics of the TDP, but sadly, they neither allowed us to protect the party’s image in the state nor did they take enough measures to rein in our coalition partner,” rued a senior BJP leader. He further blamed a section of party leaders in the state for the pathetic state of affairs, saying they have been misleading the Central leadership on continuing the alliance with the TDP.
 
 Meanwhile, CPM state secretary   asked CM Naidu to end the ‘political drama’ over injustice done by the Centre in the budget, and clear his stand on the alliance. He said Naidu has been blaming the BJP-led NDA for the past four years, but achieved little by continuing in the NDA. Madhu said it is high time Naidu makes his mind over the issue of injustice done to the state. He asked the CM to align with the Left parties in taking on the BJP
 
 
