FEROZPUR: A joint team of the Punjab Police special task force (STF) from Amritsar and the BSF killed a Pakistani smuggler and seized 10kg heroin, along with arms, ammunition and Pakistani currency, from Ferozepur sector on Tuesday. 

 Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, IGP of the  , assistant inspector general of police (AIG) Rachpal Singh and BSF IG, Punjab Frontier, Mukul Goel said acting on a specific information, a trap was laid by the STF and BSF in the area of Bareke border outpost on Monday night. “The troops noticed some suspicious movement of two Pakistani smugglers ahead of the border fence with the intention to smuggle the contraband. When the Pakistani smugglers tried to insert a plastic pipe into the border fence, our team members challenged them. However, the smugglers did not pay any heed and opened fire on the team. To stop their misadventure, our men retaliated with fire, resulting in the killing of one Pakistani smuggler while his accomplice managed to escape, taking advantage of the darkness and wheat crop,” they said.
 
 Goel disclosed that about 55 shots were fired by their team before the culmination of the operation. He said on searching the area, the team found the body of one Pakistani smuggler and seized 10 kg of heroin (valued at Rs 50 crore in the international market), one China-made pistol (.30mm), two magazines, 17 cartridges, two mobile phones with three SIM cards and Pakistani currency. The STF officers, Jaiswal and Rachpal, said, “We have already started the investigations. The seized Pakistani SIM cards would be scanned to get more details of the smuggling nexus in the border areas, which would help to keep a check on such bids from across the border in future,” both said.
 
 The BSF apprehended a Pakistani national near Maharsona border outpost in Fazilka sector on Tuesday. According to information, a BSF patrolling party observed some suspicious movement between the international boundary and the border fence. On being challenged by the BSF, the intruder, a resident of Lahore district in Pakistan, surrendered before the security personnel.
 
 
