MUMBAI: A   citizen from the western suburbs fell prey to a   whom she befriended on   and ended up paying Rs 17.2 lakh for claiming a “gift”. The 66-year-old woman, a retired   with a hospital, told the police that she was asked to pay the money as customs duty to retrieve her gift from airport authorities. MHB Colony police have registered a case and are looking for the conman.

 “The woman met the conman over Facebook. She did not know him but they got conversing after she accepted his friendship request. He then asked for her contact number and began sending messages on WhatsApp,” a police officer said. “Between January 10 and 31, the conman convinced her that she was to receive a gift comprising iPhones, jewellery and US dollars. He asked her to shell out various sums of money through netbanking on the pretext of retrieving her gift soon. She ended up paying Rs 17.2 lakh in all. She has blown up a large part of her pension fund,” the officer said.
 
 
  
  
 
 After the woman’s son got wind of the goings-on, he accompanied her to the police station where a case was lodged under provisions of Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. Cops have instructed the woman to continue staying in touch with the conman in a bid to track him down. 
 
 “Senior citizens are particularly vulnerable to these cons and we want to appeal to them to familiarize themselves with dos and don’ts of social media before logging on,” said senior inspector Ashok Jadhav, MHB Colony police. “On our part, we have been visiting housing societies and having informal interactions with citizens through our ‘nukkad meetings’. Under no circumstances should one accept friendship requests from someone they don’t know.”
 
 Last March, a Bandra-based senior   was duped of Rs 1.9 crore by a man whom he had met on Facebook. The man had claimed to be a US army personnel posted in Afghanistan. He offered an investment opportunity on a partnership basis. After some time, the conman sent a certificate of deposit purportedly authorized by the US Army Corps to the 72-year-old victim. After the victim parted with the money, the accused couriered him a debit card card. But when the victim tried to withdraw money from ATM, he found that the card was fake.
 
 
