GURUGRAM: The best plays evoke a time and capture a zeitgeist. They do so through a true-to-life portrayal of characters (complete with foibles). ‘Dopehri’, however, takes the essence of theatre to another realm. It is a remarkable, and incredibly tender, piece of drama in which   is both storyteller and the thespian.

 Beautifully weaving emotion, comedy and pathos with a skill only years of experience can bring, Kapur puts in a masterclass in this one-act (and one-actor) play, based on a novella he wrote more than two decades back. Centred around Ammi bi, a widow sequestered in a Lucknow haveli, and a cast of characters that are persuasively lifelike, ‘Dopehri’ delves into the humanism and humour that endure in even the most ordinary of lives, and draws out the extraordinary from the most modest of everyday moments. The old lady and the haveli might have seen better days but Kapur is eager to show that epiphanies await around every corner, if only we are willing to look.
 
  is a proud woman whose dignity has taken a few knocks but has survived life’s caprices. In her loneliness lies a melancholia that gnaws away at but doesn’t overwhelm her. Amma bi’s companions are the simpleton servant Jumman, and one Dr Saxena, a friend of her late husband’s. Just step out of your home, and in folks like Amma bi, Jumman and the good doctor you find your neighbours, as recognisable as anyone in the mohalla. 
 
 Within the plot is a sub-plot, of Amma bi’s road to self-realisation. “She gets a new identity – or recognises the identity she’s always had,” said Kapur in a chat with TOI. She is assisted, in this journey, by the arrival of Sabiha, a down-to-earth but utterly self-assured woman from Jaunpur. Sabiha empowers Amma bi to embrace her soul, to find contentment in the winter of her life. This process of self-discovery, says Kapur, is very real. “It happens organically, not in a ‘slogany’ manner.” So, gradually, the haveli no longer seems haunted, and a building of old memories becomes a repository of new reminiscences.
 
 ‘Dopehri’ is not a sad tale. It is full of the wonder of the world, of the power of faith and the human spirit, and of the promise that a new day will bring hope. And all these qualities are enhanced by Kapur’s faultless delivery, his perfectly modulated voice, and the ability to evoke (equally) guffaws and tears.
 
 In Kapur’s own words, ‘Dopehri’ is a story simply told, with a lot emotion. “And the milieu is Indian, which all of us are familiar with,” he adds. Its humanity and optimism certainly touched many a heart, as evidenced by the reception Kapur – a stalwart of the stage and a presence on our television screens for many a year – received at play’s end. He deserves to take a bow.
 
 
