SECUNDERABAD: Passengers, travelling in the air-conditioned compartments of mail and express trains that run through the city, complain more of having their belongings stolen than others who book tickets for general coaches.

 The railway protection force (RPF) and the government railway police (GRP) claim to have curbed rate of offences, including thefts, in South Central Railway with “adequate security”, but reality isn’t validating their claims.
 
 The GRP is flooded with complaints from travelers of   coaches, who are being targeted by sneak thieves or snatchers these days. However, maximum offences like bag lifting, snatching of mobile phones, purses and valuables like ornaments, are mostly occurring in running trains in Guntur, Nadikudi, Miryalaguda and   among other places.
 
 G Ashok Kumar, SP of railway police district,   said that the thieves from other states, like   or  , are targeting ACcoaches late at night or in the wee hours of a day, when most passengers are still asleep. He also added that passengers these days are well-off and carry much cash and valuables withthem.
 
 In January, Sheetal Dayama, a woman, who had boarded   express with her family from Secunderabad to reach Jalna in Maharashtra, lodged a complaint with the divisional railway manager aboutthe theft of her hand bag, which contained a cell phone worth ?9k, ?16k in cash, and goldearings worth?15,000.
 
 
 “The incident took place at around 3am and I felt the shadow of the culprit. The moment I woke up, I saw the man standing near the door that was opposite to my berth. I raised alarm but the man managed to jump off the running train. Other lady passengers were equally panicstricken by the incident due to the absence of any security,” she wrote in thecomplaint.
 
 
 So far, out of over 400 theft live cases lodged with the GRP, Secunderabad, most were commited in AC coaches. The SP said that due a shortage of staff, police escorts are provided to important trains only, not the weekly or special trains the run routinely.
 
 
 Record show that between 2016-17, around 1,000 theft cases had been registered, and the property stolen in trains totalledover ?1crore. Cops were able to recover only ?23lakhworthbelongings. Railway properties like scrap iron, other metals and electronicdeviceswere alsostolen and could notbe recovered.
 
