Madurai:Professor Rajagopalan Vasudevan, popularly known as the “Plastic man of India,’’ and folk singer - composer Vijayalakshmi Navaneethakrishnan have made Madurai proud by being chosen for Padma Shri, the fourth highest civilian honour in the country.

 Vasudevan is currently serving as dean, department of chemistry, at Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai, where he joined after completing his Ph.D at Madras University in 1974. He had completed his Bachelor of Science in 1965 and and MSc in 1967. Vasudevan developed the technology of laying roads using recycled plastics in 2001 following which his college came forward to lay the first road using the technology in 2002. The road has been maintaining its quality till date. Patented by the college, Professor Vasudevan dedicated his technology free of cost to the nation and today over one lakh kilometres has been laid using the technology.
 
 Having received many awards including one from the king of Nepal, professor Vasudevan told TOI that he was happy that his work had benefited the common man. It was also a way to deal with plastic menace. 
 
 “This award will also motivate many others to innovate with simple technology for the benefit of the community and the common man,’’ said the 72-year-old professor, who still continues to guide many on the technology, including women’s self-help groups which are into plastic recycling. His wife Sudha Vasudevan said that she was extremely happy that her husband’s work had been recognized thus. They have two children, daughter Deepa Prasanna and son Vasanth Desikan.
 
 Vijayalakshmi Navaneethakrishnan is a former professor in the department of folk arts and culture at Madurai Kamaraj University. She along with her husband M Navaneethakrishnan has done a lot of research in folk art and culture. Renowned even outside the country for their skill, they have performed in many countries along with their troupe. 
 
 Born on January 27, 1946, Vijayalakshmi was instrumental in popularising folk songs among the younger generation. The couple has recorded more than 10,000 audio cassettes on folk music and are also in the process of compiling an encyclopedia of Tamil folk art.
 
 
