Nagpur: The hue and cry over pink bollworm attack on cotton farming across the state notwithstanding, a survey conducted by the agriculture department shows that the average loss in region is 23% on land where almost 75% crop cutting has been done. Sources in the agriculture department said the exercise is not complete. “The department cannot come on to any conclusion until then,” they said and added that a larger survey was needed to get a complete picture.  Lack of irrigation facilities in the region have acted as a blessing in disguise to curb the losses on account of bollworm attack here. “Certain botanical conditions created due to irrigation and use of fertilizers led to a higher bollworm attacks on irrigated fields as compared to dry land areas,” sources said. Bollworm has been the major reason for low cotton output in the state. In Vidarbha, cotton is mainly grown in dry land areas. Almost 75% of crop cutting done to assess the yield has been completed. In west Vidarbha districts where cotton is the major crop, the yield has dropped by 23% of the last five years’ average. “The per hectare yield comes to between 7.7 to 4.5 quintals in the districts of Buldhana, Akola, Washim Amravati and Yavatmal,” a source said.  There are some patches where the loss is much higher. In Pandharkavda division of Yavatmal district, the sample survey has reported losses at over 50% of the average yield. The final figures, however, are not out as one more round of cutting remains. “It takes 4 to 5 rounds of harvest to get a complete picture,” source among those conducting the exercise said. “Irrigation is normally coupled with use of chemical fertilizers. This leads to higher vegetative growth of the crop, but flowering is delayed by nearly a week. The delayed flowering in irrigated fields matched with the bollworm cycle leading to higher infestation,” said a source in the agriculture department. “Since cotton picking is delayed till March in irrigated fields, it gives some time for the bollworm eggs to incubate in the farms which attack during the next season. This was another reason for farmers having irrigation to take a hit. The excessive growth due to peculiar climatic conditions was higher in irrigated areas. This led to humid conditions and rotting of cotton bolls.” the source said. A dry land farmer on the other hand who winds up early was saved from the bollworm attack in first round, it was not as severe in second. “Though there were losses in the third round of picking,” the source said.  Nearly 12 lakh farmers have lodged a claim with the state government seeking compensation from Bt cotton seed companies for losses due to the pink bollworm attack. The cotton grown through Bt seeds are supposed to be resistant to bollworm. This is the reason state government is collecting farmers’ claims against seed companies. Less losses in Vidarbha are reflected in the number of claims too. The Marathwada region accounts of 50% of the total 12 lakh claims. In Vidarbha close to 3.34 lakh claims have been lodged which is 25% of the total numbers. The state government’s Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavamlamban Mission (VNSSM) chairman, Kishore Tiwari, admitted that the losses were comparatively less in dry land. “The figures in Marathwada are higher because of farmers having better irrigation facilities at the field level such as borewell or canals. At the same time, incidence of bollworm was also first seen in the region at farms in the Jalna district,” he said.