Pune: Traffic restrictions will be implemented on   and   to assist   that is expected to begin on the Nal Stop-Paud Phata stretch in the next few days.

 As per the proposed plan, all vehicles coming from Paud Road and Karve Road will have to take a left turn onto the Canal Road near SNDT to head towards Deccan Gymkhana. The vehicles can travel up to Law College Chowk and take a right turn at Athawale Chowk to reach Nal Stop Chowk to re-enter Karve Road. No change has been proposed for vehicles travelling from Deccan Gymkhana towards Paud Phata.
 
 The Paud Phata-Nal Stop Stretch on Karve Road is one of the busiest routes in the city. The proposed plan aims to avoid inconvenience to daily commuters.
 
  
 A detailed survey of the stretch was conducted by the elected representatives with MahaMetro officials and traffic police officers on Wednesday.
 
 Standing committee chairman Muralidhar Mohol said a rotary traffic flow has been proposed in the Nal Stop and SNDT areas to avoid traffic issues during the Metro work. “The civic administration and traffic police have been instructed to take measures before the traffic police implements the changes,” he said. 
 
 Sandeep Khardekar of Creative Foundation said the Karve Road stretch witnesses huge traffic flow from Kothrud and Chandani Chowk. “All necessary measures should be put in place well before the traffic regulations are implemented,” he said.
 
 Ashok Morale, deputy commissioner of police, traffic branch, said the department has told the civic administration to remove dividers at Athawale Chowk, shift PMPML bus stops and reduce the width of footpaths. “A review will be conducted after 15 days to check if necessary provisions are in place for traffic changes to be put in place, following which traffic restrictions will be implemented,” he said. 
 
 MahaMetro officials said they will ensure that the work progresses without any delays. “We will also deploy traffic wardens on road stretches to assist the traffic police,” they added. The MahaMetro had earlier said the corporation will initiate all possible steps to ensure least disruptions to vehicular traffic on Karve Road, Paud Phata and Paud Road during the Metro work.
 
 The MahaMetro has already started civil work of constructing pillars on Paud Road. The work has started from Vanaz and has been taken up in a phased manner up to Paud Phata junction.
 
 
