Bhopal: Tragic death of four kids in Indore school bus accident put spotlight on if school buses and their condition are thoroughly checked before issuing fitness certificate. To check out if due diligence is followed at Bhopal Regional Transport Office, TOI did a reality check of a school bus, which received fitness certificate on Saturday.

 A school bus with registration number MP04PA07XX entered the RTO campus at 12:20pm. The bus owner contacted an agent, who took vehicle’s documents and completed formalities. Shortly afterwards, the agent hopped into the bus and after seeing the condition of the bus, he gave the owner a list. The bus owner goes out of the RTO campus in his vehicle.
 
 After 40 minutes, the bus owner returns to RTO campus with a new CCTV camera, speed governor and few red-coloured radium stripes. The bus owner and driver fixed camera and speed governor on the bus and stuck radium stripes around the vehicle body. 
 
 When bus driver was asked about CCTV camera recordings, he said, “I don’t know how it works. My agent asked me to get it installed, so I did it on a temporary basis. I bought it today for fitness formality and will take it out once I get the certificate.” 
 
 The owner then showed how the CCTV camera was installed. The camera was not recording. Instead, it was just connected to the battery to show it in working condition. 
 
 As for the speed governor, the driver said, “The governor was fixed above the engine and it was bought today. It is not connected to a speedometer.” In other words, it cannot control the speed. Just for the sake of formalities, the speed governor was installed.
 
 It was around 2 pm now when driver pasted the radium stripes and started the bus engine to check whether it is fine or not. After few minutes, the agent approached officials, including Regional Transport In-charge (RTI) and got their signatures on documents. 
 
 After half an hour, the bus was called for a photograph and around 3pm, the vehicle left RTO campus with a fitness certificate. Within seven working hours, over 90 vehicles are provided fitness certificate every day at Bhopal RTO. Assuming 20 are new vehicles, it means 70 old vehicles manage to get fitness clearance. 
 
 A staff of just three— an RTI, a peon and a babu — doing inspection and completing formalities of a fairly big number of vehicles — indeed is a tall order and raises question about seriousness with which the exercise is carried out. 
 
 A senior officer at RTO, on condition of anonymity, said, “There are officials who are authorised to conduct a proper inspection and reject if they don’t find bus fit. But they don’t do it. Once the office moves into new building, the procedure will get digitalised. We can then expect a strict inspection.”
 
 When transport commissioner Shailendra Srivastava was informed about the issue, he said, “Yes, I received complaints regarding this. We are soon going to stop these speed governors, which are installed by local vendors. We will allow only few companies which will install tamper-proof governors and a central server will be created where details of the governor and bus would be uploaded.”
 
 “Also, I will take an action against officials providing fitness certificates without doing a proper check as it put children to a grave risk,” he said. 
 
 Srivastava said, “I had recently received complaints about duplicate speed governors. To stop it, the companies which will install devices, will be provided trade certificate directly by me. We will start it within a week.”
 
 
