GONIKOPPAL ( ): Gonikoppal town was tense on Wednesday night and Thursday following a group clash between BJP and Congress workers which left eight people injured. Three were rushed to private hospitals in Mysuru. Police arrested nine people and they were sent to judicial custody till May19.

 
 The incident was first reported from Second Block around10pm Wednesday during a power cut, when BJP and Congress supporters were campaigning near Labour Colony. The clash started when BJP and Congress workers questioned each other about campaigning there as each claimed it wastheir stronghold.Congressleader Muruga, a local gram panchayat member, and BJP leader Rajesh, former GP president, questioned each other’s motive for coming there. They tried to assault each other and this escalated to stone-pelting. Police dispersed the mob with a lathicharge.
 
 Tension escalated when Puneeth, a BA student and RSS shakha pramukh, was beaten up when he was returning home from an RSS camp. In retaliation, another group assaulted the taluk Youth Congress president Jammada Somanna and Gonikoppal town Youth Congress president Karthanda Somanna. All three were admitted to Mysuru hospitals.
 
 Workers of both parties barged into the local community health centre where the injured were being treated and started assaulting each other. They threwoxygen cylinders andchairs at each other. Police brought the situation under control but constable Ganesh sustained head injuries. The roofs of several houses were damaged in the stone-pelting. The injured, Muruga (Congress), Rajesh, Aiyyappa, Palani, Ravi and Mani (all BJP) were treated at the health centre.
 
 A case under IPC Section 307 was registered against 20 people.
 
 Prohibitory orders in force
 
 Kodagu deputy commisioner Shri Vidya imposed prohibitory orders under Section 144 in the district from 6pm May 10 to 6pm May 13 to ensure free, fair and peaceful elections. Candidates or party workers can do doorto-door campaigning but can’t hold functions, processions and public programmes or burst crackers.
 
