KOLKATA: The   has in its annals two pieces of bones and a crystal casket that once stored a tooth of the Buddha. But no one has ever seen them. It also has several sculptures and artefacts related to the Buddha dating back to the time of   in the 3rd century BC and then the Gupta dynasty.

 Despite this, for years, the Indian Museum has been accused of not doing enough to attract the Buddhist world to it. Finally, the institution has decided to build a dedicated gallery around the saga of Buddha to showcase these rare gems.
 
 
  
 While some Buddha-related excavated sculptures are there on display, more than 90% of them are in the vaults for safekeeping because both relics and some artefacts are considered to be invaluable. A stock-taking of the store has been completed to arrive at a conclusion about the numbers and periodicity of the Buddha artefacts.
 
 “While we will not be able to bring out all of these in the gallery we are designing to take visitors around to tell the story of Buddha, we will have the most prominent ones on display now. Iadmit it is not enough to just be remembered as a museum with the most valuable collection, till we are able to showcase them to the people,” said  , the museum director.
 
 In 1898, amateur archaeologist W C Pepe first excavated a stupa at UP’s  , which is believed to be one of the resting places of Buddha’s ashes, containing the relics. He found some bones and a tooth among the ashes. The tooth was kept inside a crystal casket, intricately carved with minerals. He gifted the relics to the King of Thailand. The invaluable crystal casket was, however, sent to the Indian Museum.
 
 This first excavation started a debate, whether Buddha was also born in Piprawah, which is not far from Nepal’s Lumbini. Soon, archaeologist K M Shrivastava did a second round of excavations at the Piprawah and discovered several more relics (read bones), which were then handed over to the Indian Museum. These lie preserved in another casket at the museum.
 
 Among the most valuable Buddha sculptures in the Museum’s possession are the one on Buddha’s birth and another depicting his death or parinirvana. Then there are valuable paintings from Bengal masters like Abanindranath Tagore and Asit Haldar showing different legends associated with the life of Buddha. “The story we are creating around Buddha is a 360 degree view of his life and message. Kolkata has so long been only a transit point for foreign tourists from countries like Thailand, Japan and  , headed towards sites like   in Bihar and Sarnath and Kushinagar in UP. Despite being the best repository of Buddhist relics and ancient Indian sculptures related to the Buddha, we are not part of their itinerary. We hope to change that,” Purohit added.
 
