MADURAI: An assistant commissioner of the air intelligence unit of the customs department in Madurai has created a Guinness world   by giving the ‘Largest Drugs Awareness Lesson’. In all, 2,009 students from various colleges took part in the sensitization programme held in Chennai in February which lasted 98 minutes and 13.17 seconds. He received his certificate last Saturday for breaking the record of 650 students having taken part in a similar awareness session.

 In attempting the world record, A   has only taken the sensitization efforts he has been spearheading among students for the last eight years to the next level. The Guinness Record management approved him as instructor for the record-breaking session based on his expertise and experience in the field. The customs officer has taught his lessons to students in over 127 institutions spread across the length and breadth of the country. 
 
 Venkadesh Babu said that the three years he served as head of  , preventive and intelligence cell in Chennai between 2014 and 2017 helped equip himself better with information about the drug abuse scenario in the country as well as its ill-effects. He said he was grateful to chief commissioner of customs Ranjan Kumar Routray for having given him the opportunity to “give something back to the society”. The first thing he did on getting hold of the Guinness certificate was to show it to his boss. 
 
 So, what made the   official take an active interest in campaigning against drug abuse? It all started when the IRS official started visiting institutions in 2011 to give motivational speeches. He came to know about the gravity of drug abuse in colleges and started to create awareness on it. To his surprise, many school and college students successfully came out of addiction. When such students came calling to thank him, he decided to take up the sensitization in a big way. The contentment that he gets out of rescuing the youths from addiction has been the driving force behind the efforts of Venkadesh Babu, a native of   brought up in Madurai. 
 
 Talking about the record attempt, Venkadesh Babu said that all students who attended were given bar-coded wrist bands. The entire event was videographed using six cameras and a UAV and documented with the help of 50 stewards, four independent witnesses and two approved time keepers. A few organisations also lent a helping hand to the officials for holding the record attempt. Venkadesh Babu has conducted awareness programmes even on a bigger scale in the past. Once he spoke to a packed crowd of over 3,000 students at a Madurai college though a Guinness attempt was not thought about then.
 
 
