Jaipur: A day after a 30-year-old income tax inspector from Alwar killed his wife and buried her body inside a house in Vadodara, Gujarat, a team of Rajasthan police were able to exhume the body. Police stated that the accused had applied salt and buried the body in a 6-feet deep pit. Police further stated that they were looking for the friend of the accused as he too would be booked for criminal conspiracy. 

 A team of Rajasthan police led by Kavendra Singh, assistant commissioner of police, Malviya Nagar visited the locality in Vadodara and it took the team almost 3 hours to exhume the body. 
 
 “We will bring the body to Jaipur for post-mortem and other relevant tests. It was also found that the accused had applied salt on the body and had buried it in a 6-feet deep pit. He had also put some water in it to ensure that the body gets fully decomposed easily. The body was partially decomposed,” said Kavednra while talking to TOI over phone from Vadodara on Sunday. 
 
 According to police, the accused also confessed that from planning the   of his wife to its execution, his plan was to manage things in such a manner that it seemed like a case of kidnap followed by murder. 
 
 “While having a word with his wife some hours prior to the murder he had specifically told her not to carry mobile phones and also asked his friend to follow the same. We are looking for his friend who too would be booked for criminal conspiracy,” said Kunwar Rastradeep, deputy commissioner of police (East). 
 
 Rastradeep said that at least 50 people were regularly coming to Gandhi Nagar police station and were accusing the police of dilly dally approach. “It was a missing person’s case. We took it seriously and our SHO prioritised the case. The overreaction of the accused, Lokesh Choudhary, and the way he was continuously pursuing the case made us suspicious. Finally he confessed his crime,” he added.Ḥ 
 
 Choudhary was arrested by the Gandhi Nagar police in Jaipur for killing his wife and burying her body inside his house in Vadodara. In order to evade the police and their growing suspicion, he also filed a missing person report. It was also found that he married the woman Munesh in February, 2017 but he was in a relationship with another woman, thus the motive behind the crime was to get rid of his wife.
 
 
