GURUGRAM: Taking a cue from neighbouring Delhi, the   (NHAI) has decided to beautify the city’s   by installing vertical organic gardens on their pillars. 

 These gardens would also help combat the increasing air pollution in the city, officials said.
 
 Essentially vertical gardens are those that grow vertically, along walls or pillars, with the help of trellis (which are wooden frames) or similar support systems. 
 
 Such gardens allow people to make use of limited spaces and is an excellent way to give a ‘green’ boost.
 
 According to officials, these vertical organic gardens will come up at all major flyovers in the city, including Rajiv Chowk, Signature Tower, Hero Honda Chowk and Iffco Chowk flyovers. 
 
 The consultants of these projects have been asked to draw up a cost estimate in their respective areas and give a detailed report on the same at the earliest.
 
 “This is a pilot project which has been taken up by NHAI,” Saurabh Singhal, team leader and traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, the consultant for the project, told TOI.
 
 “The vertical gardens will help reduce urban heat island effect and smog; purify outside polluted air; act as a sound-proofing barrier; create a healthy habitat for birds and insects and increase real estate value,” he added.
 
 The vertical gardens will be maintained by an automated drip irrigation system that ensures the plants receive their daily dose of 100 millilitres of water. The contractor of projects will be initially responsible for the maintenance of the gardens for four years. 
 
 “The vertical gardens will be regularly watered using the automatic drip irrigation system. This system will water the saplings automatically every day for about 30 minutes. During monsoon, rain water will be used to water the saplings. This concept requires less water to grow plants,” said  , of NGO ‘Give me trees’.
 
 The vertical gardens also help in reducing smog and air pollution. Having green walls provides thermal insulation for buildings which helps in decreasing the demand on power and fewer polluting by-products are released into the air, experts say.
 
 Last year in March, vertical gardens came up on pillars for the first time in one part in Bengaluru. 
 
 NHAI had reportedly chopped more than 9,000 trees to develop a flyover and three underpasses in the city. 
 
 “This project will solve the problem of people blaming NHAI of cutting trees to make way for underpasses and flyovers. The project will involve more than 10,000 different varieties of plants,” said Singhal.
 
 
