Nagpur: Necessity may be the mother of invention but for Nirmala Gregory Ford, driving around town is more of fun than compulsion. Ford is the only female driver working with Ola in Nagpur. “When I approached them for this job, they welcomed me on board and did not express any doubt about me being any different from male drivers,” says Ford who is driving an E2 Plus since seven months.  Till two years back, she was just a housewife. “When my daughter joined a driving school, I too decided to learn driving just to occupy myself,” says the 53-year-old cabbie. “Initially I used to be very shaky and would always have a driver sitting next me as I practised in the neighbourhood,” she says. It was her husband, a retired armyman, who encouraged her to go alone to fill fuel in their Alto one day. “That raised my confidence and I began venturing up to Sadar,” says Ford who resides in Koradi. Once confident of her driving skills, Ford distributed pamphlets offering her services for pick and drop facilities. “I began to get clients for places like airport and railway station but the number of calls dropped once cab services started in city,” she says. Not willing to let go of this avenue of earning money, she began ferrying kids going for tuitions and summer camps. “One day I saw Ola’s ad inviting drivers. I applied and got a call from them,” she says. Initially it was tough as, Ford was not well-versed with the routes. “The GPS works only when we have a ride, otherwise the driver has to navigate his way back on his own. I can’t operate these smartphones with touch screens and so did not have a navigation tool of my own,” she explains. A lot of encouragement from fellow drivers and amused customers have kept her on the path. “The customers sometimes can’t make out it is a woman driver coming to pick them and are surprised. But once the ride is complete, many give me a salute. One young man told me he is scared when his wife drives but after this ride his opinion about women drivers has changed.” It is a long day for Ford, full of sweet and sour experiences as she drives for nearly 10 hours a day around the city and makes Rs20,000 per month. “Most customers are polite and good, some are rude. It is scary also when I have to find my way back from a far flung area. I feel safe when a passenger is sitting,” she says. Now hoping to purchase her own vehicle, Ford says she would like more women to take up this profession. “If women can fly planes, drive trains, why can’t they be cab drivers,” she asks.