In the latest episode of  , Dipanjan tries to act friendly with   and her family. But no one likes him.

  and Dipanjan are seen conspiring against Joba. They plan to perform a fake DNA test to prove that they have all the information regarding Joba’s missing son. Dipanjan says that he will take Supari’s hair sample. He asks Tandra to arrange the same from  .
 
 Dipanjan tries to inquire about Supari’s hearing. Palak and Joba get worried about the kid’s well-being. During their conversation   comes to the dining hall and Dipanjan collects his hair sample without anyone’s notice.
 
 Dipanjan and Tandra spend some romantic time together. 
 
 Tandra informs Param and Joba that she can prove that the child (the one she had shown earlier) is their biological son. She asks for Param’s hair sample and promises to prove it with the help of a medical test. Joba and Param are suspicious about Tandra’s plan. 
 
 Joba tells Param that Tandra is trying to force them to work according to her (Tandra’s) evil plan but they are too helpless to protest. 
 
 Joba is seen helping the local people. Some poor ladies share their financial issues with her. Tandra observes the entire episode from a distance as she knows how much these people trust Joba. She wants to exploit that trust. 
 
 Tandra forces Joba to inform them about the micro-finance company according to the plan. But Joba doesn’t want to do any illegal job.
 
  Seeing no other option, Tandra approaches the people and proposes the idea of a micro-finance company. The local people requests Joba to take the money and keep it with her. But Joba disagrees to take the money.
 
 Dipanjan arrives and tries to take control of the situation but he fails. Joba appeals the local people to deposit the money in a post office or bank.
 
 Param asks Joba about what happened. But she seems to be reluctant to talk about the incident.
 
 Palak enters the room and requests Joba to kick Dipanjan and Tandra out of the home. She adds that Tandra will never do anything good for anyone. Palak promises to do everything for the well-being of the family. Joba understands her emotion and adds that she is doing everything for their missing child. 
 
