NEW DELHI:   is in ferment. The residents of this urban village near  , who always considered the Tughlaq-era tomb in the heart of the locality as a temple, recently painted it white and saffron. They also underlined the building’s official status as a temple by placing idols of Krishna and Radha in it. The fact that this building is actually a listed heritage building and a 15th century tomb has had no relevance to the villagers. That is why reclaiming the monument from the community is going to be a difficult task for the state archaeology department. Delhi government, it is learnt, plans to lodge an FIR and take back the monument as part of its conservation plans for the city’s unprotected monuments.

 A statement from deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Friday said, “Causing damage and harm to a heritage property is against the law and a serious offence. It is the duty of the state archaeology department to ensure the protection of heritage monuments listed under it and take strict actions in case of a lapse. The reported incident should be handled with zero tolerance by the department as it not only violates heritage related laws but is also an attempt to disturb peace and harmony in the area.”
 
 The minister added that the secretary of the art, culture and language department has been asked to provide him with a detailed report by Saturday, along with details of the case and the action taken.
 
 A dusty plaque outside the arched structure defines it as a Shiv Bhola temple since June 15, 1971. “This building has always been a temple. As a child, I used to come here regularly with my mother and have been seeing the villagers worshipping here. Only the statues of Radha and Krishan are recent additions,” claimed septuagenarian Chaudhary Prem Raj, a resident. Villagers admit to making the external changes a few months ago but it was done in order to “protect the building”.
 
 “The building was in a poor shape and the village wanted to do something,” explained Amit, another resident. “Money came through donations, and with the help of our area councillor we got the two statues installed in the structure. Work was also done on the exteriors as well.” The villagers collected about Rs 35,000 for the two-ft-tall statues. People say the building already had a Shiv Ling.
 
 Radhika Abrol Phogat, the South Delhi Municipal Corporation councillor for Safdarjung Enclave, however, denied any involvement in the issue. “In the five years I have lived here, I never knew the temple was a heritage structure,” Phogat said. “The local people got it painted recently, and I have nothing to do with it. I am being targeted for no reason.”
 
 The structure has tiles with pictures of Hindu gods on the external walls near the gate. Housewives Reshama and Aarti told TOI that aarti was performed twice every day in the morning and evening at the ‘temple’. Others claimed it had a dedicated priest who came in twice a day, but TOI was unable to verify this. “The ‘temple’ is opened only for aarti services. It is kept locked at other time due to the threat of vandalism,” said Amit.
 
 According to the list of heritage buildings compiled by Zafar Hasan in the 1912, the structure is a tomb of an unknown person. “The building is used as a fodder store by villagers and its doorways are filled in with earth and rubble,” reads the description from the 1920s. Sometime later, it appears that the building began to be used as a temple.
 
 Intach Delhi chapter had listed the structure as an unprotected monument in 2016. “It was included in Phase III of the conservation plan, but we could not start work because our teams always found the monument under lock and key,” said an Intach official. “We reported the matter to the archaeology department, which contacted the cops.”
 
 
 
 
