Jaipur: The Opposition while initiating the discussion on budget in the assembly on Wednesday made several charges of corruption against the Raje government.

 Deputy leader of Opposition Ramesh Meena said, the government was talking about development of Prithviraj Nagar but nothing has been done to improve the conditions there. “This government seems to be working on the single purpose of capturing prime lands in all parts of the state. It is learnt that now the government is eying the prime land of Khethdi House and the district collector had gone on leave unable to bear the pressure, he alleged amidst protest from the ruling party MLAs.”
 
 Meena said many of the relatives of ministers are being given appointment illegally as consultants in their departments. Ghanshyam Tiwari then interjected saying “two of such appointments in the health department was in the news.”
 
 Meena asked what is the outcome of the much publicized Resurgent Rajasthan summit. The house was not given information about the investment materialized on the ground respite several questions. MoUs were signed for Rs 3.21 lakh crore but actual invest has remained only Rs 23,000 crore, he said.
 
 Similarly he alleged that public money is being wasted in the Dravyawati river project. The huge amount of Rs 1416 crore is being spent for the beautification of a drainage. The money could have been utilized better if it was diverted for the Metro Phase II. he added .
 
 He alleged that the BJP government has put the state in a debt trap. He said the debt of the state has increased from Rs 2, 798, 28 cr in the previous year to 3.80 lakh crore in the next fiscal.
 
 According to the budget the government is depending on external finance to support projects.
 
 He said the budget makes grandiose announcements but allocation of fund is very limited. He said for instance the budget announces spending for water resources to the tune of Rs 52,000 resource allocation in the budget is only of Rs 3000-4000 crore.
 
 He said all the parties in the assembly were unanimous in their demand for farmers loans waive off considering the agricultural distress resulting in farmers taking their own lives. But the budget proposes limit the cop of waive of only of small and marginal farmers that too only of cooperative banks. This is injustice to the farmers, he said.
 
 He said the government has been misusing the power sector to catch votes in the by poll areas. Twenty one people were killed in a transformer blast at Shahapura under Virat Nagar and what action has been taken against the officials responsible. He said the direction of the CMD to remove the cut out fuse (cut out fuse is a combination of a fuse and a switch, used in primary overhead feeder lines to protect distribution transformers from electricity surges and overloads) and direct connecting the feeder lines to transformer resulted in the blast. He said that cases of murder should have been registered against the officials but it was learnt that the injury has exonerate all officials.
 
 
