MUMBAI: Nearly two months after it was made mandatory for bulk waste generators to segregate waste and compost it, the BMC has begun a crackdown. It has filed 13 cases against   and commercial establishments for violating rules and not setting up wet garbage processing units on their premises, reports Vijay V Singh.

 Members of the societies and the establishments have been booked under section 53(1) of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act. They face a maximum of two years jail or Rs 5,000 fine. The offence is bailable. In February, the BMC had lodged a police complaint against a highrise in Juhu for converting a vermicomposting pit into car parking. 
 
 Civic officials said they have also initiated legal process against 50 other housing societies, but has given them a month’s time to comply with the waste segregation and composting rules before cases are filed against them. 
 
 Most of the housing societies against whom FIRs have been filed are in the eastern suburbs, followed by the western suburbs. No case has been reported in the island city. Civic officials stated that police cases were filed after the housing societies and commercial establishments had failed to comply with the rules despite repeated reminders. Many offenders had sought extensions to set up garbage processing units, but never did so. 
 
 Film-maker and activist Ashoke Pandit said, “People have always cooperated with the civic body. But now the BMC is filing FIRs against housing societies to threaten them. Are they criminals? Garbage collection is the BMC’s job and the civic body should not dump it on taxpayers by threatening to file police cases. It is not acceptable. The BMC should create infrastructure and hire more manpower.”
 
 Last year, the BMC decided to stop collecting wet waste from housing societies and establishments that generate more than 100kg waste daily or have an area of more than 20,000 sqm. Initially, the BMC set a deadline of October 2 to enforce the rules, but after protests and requests from several quarters seeking more time to create processing facilities, it extended the deadline to January 3, 2018.
 
 Citizens and corporators had accused the BMC of being high-handed, and many had said that instead of forcing people, the civic authority should offer incentives to encourage setting up of wet waste processing units. There was also an uproar over the BMC evading its job of collecting garbage from societies and dumping it on citizens.
 
 However, the civic body stuck to its stand and maintained that big societies must have their own wet garbage processing units. The BMC had warned the societies that police cases will be filed if rules are not complied with. The BMC’s move aims to reduce the burden on the already-full dumping grounds. After January 3, the daily garbage collection at the dumping grounds has come down from 7,800 tonnes and to 7,200 tonnes. The civic body wants to reduce it further to 6,000 tonnes.
 
 Civic officials stated that till last year, they engaged 2,238 dumpers to collect garbage across the city and transport it to the three dumping grounds in the eastern part of the city. By asking establishments to process their own units, the BMC wants to reduce the number of dumpers engaged.
 
 
