DHARAMSHALA: At a time when the country is mired in controversies related to banking frauds to the tune of thousands of crores, some   politicians are leaving no stones unturned to get the post of the chairman of the   (KCC). This when the bank is in dire straits for giving ‘bad loans’ of Rs 120 crore. 

 Present chairman   is a Congress leader and a close aide of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh. He said that he would give up the post only if he was voted out in the board meeting scheduled for February 26. “I have called a meeting for February 26. My term is ending in September this year. I will resign if board members vote me out,” he said adding that he would also reveal the non performing assets (NPA) of the bank on February 26 before the media.
 
 KCC is one of the biggest co-operative banks in the lower part of the state. There were 18 members in the board of directors. BJP leaders Rajeev Bhardwaj, Ranjit Rana and Keshav Korla are said to be in the race for the post. Korla is the elected director of the bank, while Rana and Bhardwaj were government nominees who were inducted into the board this month after the BJP assumed power in the state. 
 
 As per inquiries, Bhardwaj has not won any election so far, while Korla has served two terms as the vice-chairman of bank and he had also won elections of pradhan and remained a BDC member too.
 
 Managing director of the bank P C Akela has already ordered an inquiry into the reasons for bad loans. Some managers of its branches in Una and Palampur have been charge-sheeted for issuing loans without completing proper formalities. Akela, told TOI that the actual NPA of the bank would be revealed within a month’s time. “We have ordered an inquiry and the report would be out in a month,” he said.
 
 Well-placed sources added that a meeting would be held on Sunday evening with health minister Vipin Parmar participating in it. The bank is also reeling under controversies vis-a-vis recruitment. The BJP government has put on hold 216 recruitments. 
 
 
