PATNA:  , a constituent unit of  , has become the first higher education institute in the state to introduce ‘house system’ for undergraduate students with the name of ‘Sahodar — the daughters of same mother’. Launching the system on the college premises on Friday, actor-turned-politician Shatrughan Sinha asked students to prove themselves different from the rest.

 Urging student to be self-confident, the   MP said: “In this competitive world, people should have commitment, determination, devotion and passion that ‘I can do this’. This self-confidence will help you achieve success and comfort level in life. It is important in this era to maintain your originality.”
 
 Sharing his own experience, Sinha spoke about his journey from film industry to politics and relationship with his co-stars. 
 
 Sinha handed over badges and sashes to captain and vice-captain of each house — Jagriti (Red), Maitri (Orange), Pragati (Green) and Samriddhi (Blue). Rafat Naseem and Nidhi Kumari were made captain and vice-captain respectively of Jagriti house, whereas Anushka and Bhavprita were made captain and vice-captain of Pragati house. Vandana Rani was made captain and Nisha the vice-captain of Maitri house. Shipra Singh was made the captain of Samridhi and Shambhavi Swaraj was made the vice-captain. The representative of each house, general secretary of students’ central society Divya Bharti and assistant GS Ayesha Khatoon also took oath.
 
 After the oath-taking ceremony, the college students performed Raag Basant, Bandishe Thumri and classical dance.
 
 Sinha appreciated the college administration for taking the initiative of ‘house system’ in higher education. He promised all possible support to the institution in achieving its goal for students’ welfare.
 
 Elaborating the importance of house system, MMC principal Shashi Sharma said: “There are two reasons why we implemented it — first to bridge the gap between underprivileged students and rich and second is to strengthen our old tradition of ‘Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam’. It will provide immense opportunities to the college students to develop all aspects of their personalities. It will promote team spirit among students.”
 
 The principal also talked about the achievements and development work of the institute. The guest of honour on the occasion was PU pro-VC Prof Dolly Sinha.
 
 
