Bengaluru: In 2008, when   took oath as the first BJP chief minister with an "almost" full majority, the streets leading to Vidhana Soudha were jam-packed with people. The Central Business District shut down for three hours, and thousands of people stood in the blazing heat to witness the historic political scenario of the BJP forming its first government on its own in South India. 

 At that year's swearing-in ceremony, central BJP leaders who watched from a specially constructed podium included Rajnath Singh, L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and Prakash Javadekar. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who was then Gujarat chief minister, Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh and Madhya Pradesh CM Shivaraj Singh Chauhan were also present. 
 
 Ten years later, on Thursday, the same Bookanakere Siddalingappa Yeddyurappa, now aged 75, had a rather mellowed swearing-in ceremony in what was a "closeted" affair inside the Raj Bhavan, where usually only "lone ministers" are sworn in or "cabinet expansions" take place.
 
 With uncertainty looming large, yet again, Yeddyurappa's third swearing-in was sans any fanfare. Barring five Union ministers, including   in-charge Prakash Javadekar and Bengaluru MPs H N Ananth Kumar and D V Sadananda Gowda, only state party leaders were present at the event. Yeddyurappa's swearing-in ceremony was not what his party, or he himself, had imagined it would be.
 
 Asked about the lacklustre swearing-in not befitting a new CM, at a press conference later, Yeddyurappa dismissed any interpretations of the "subdued" atmosphere and said: "As soon as the trust vote is won, we will hold a public rally of three to four lakh people, and in the presence of PM Narendra Modi, BJP national president Amit Shah and BJP chief ministers from other state, the cabinet expansion will take place."
 
 Dressed apart from the rest of the party members, who wore saffron scarves around their necks, Yeddyurappa projected himself as a farmer leader as he donned a green shawl. He wore a brand new white safari suit, symbolic of his political career.
 
 There were restrained celebrations at the BJP headquarters in the state, due to the uncertainty of Yeddyurappa's future. However, the mood across the state was in stark contrast to that in Bengaluru, with crackers bursting and BJP flags flying high, with a belief that it was a permanent victory and the government will remain intact for the next five years.
 
 By late evening, Yeddyurappa visited Siddalinga Mutt in Tumakuru to seek the blessings of the pontiff Shivakumar Swami. 
 
 
