A corner of the quiet Palan Sojpal building at Dadar comes to life every morning with a few sounds that today’s generation may probably have never heard. The silence is broken by the clickety-clack of an old  . No, this is not a clerical office at work. It’s 72-year-old  , who creates portraits of well-known names using symbols and signs on the machine. 
Actors, politicians and sportsmen have all made their way onto it, using a few keys here and a few symbols there.   stares out of one such papery canvas with his usual exaggerated facial expression and it’s almost like a photo. What makes his work near-perfect? “I’ve typed out lakhs of pages,” laughs the septuagenarian, “I think that’s what made me gain my hand at the keys.”
 
 
 
 Bhide wanted to be an   way back, but a lack of finances did not permit it. However, a string of jobs went on to hone his typing skills. From the Bombay University to the Chief Presidency Magistrate where he had to type out judgements. During his time at the Union Bank of India, he realised that his speed was much better than the others around. “I could do 90 words a minute then,” he recalls, adding, “One day, I thought, ‘Why not take up my pursuit of art via my typewriter?’ So, I played around with the keys and made a Ganpati using the letter ‘x’.” With other alphabets and simple keys like @, &, “, w, and /, he churned out a repertoire of work. “My typewriter became a part of me. I was unhappy to let it go when I took up retirement. But my boss allowed me to buy it for Rs 1. You know, you may not find another like this Halda in Mumbai now,” he smiles, pointing to his iron 1967-made machine. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Actors, cricketers, singers, politicians have all come under his key strokes. What stands out is the number of cricketers here — Bhide has created portraits of Kapil Dev, Anil Kumble,  ,  , Brian Lara, Anil Kumble and more. “Sachin’s portrait was not easy to make because he had such curly hair back then and I had to use the ‘@’ key a lot. I gave it to him on his birthday.” He also adds how veteran   reacted to his work. “I made his portrait and gave it to him on the sets of ' ' and he loved it. He joked and told me, ‘Chandrakant 
 ’,” he says.
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 You might think banging out a few times on the keyboard is simple enough. It’s not, he assures. “The typewriter has limitations. For one, the machine is in a fixed place, so you have to turn the paper around every time, to get the design you want. Also, if you make one small mistake, like one extra ‘x’ even, it changes the whole picture. You can’t go and press ‘delete’ unlike a computer, so you just have to throw the paper away. It’s also not easy as the paper gets stuck in the pin so often and then gets crumpled.” 
 Today’s generation may suffer from texter’s neck or texter’s thumb, but he has typer’s thumb. “My fingers hurt nowadays, as I have to hold the rod with one hand and type with the other, but there is still so much I want to create.” 
 Who would he like to sketch in today’s times? “Donald Trump,” he grins. “Also, I would like to create the Queen’s portrait and send it to her .”
  Funnily, nature does not fit into any of his works.
 he asks.
 
 
 
