CHANDIGARH: After  , main opposition party in Punjab, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday accused the   (PSEB) of removing chapters related to the era of Sikh gurus from the Class XII history books. The party has sought a high-level probe into the issue and claimed that 23 chapters related to the Sikh gurus and an important event of Sikh history have been “deleted” from the history book.

 Terming it as disrespect to the Sikh gurus, it asked the   government “to correct the mistake without any delay”.
 
 In a joint statement, seven AAP MLAs hit out at “the move of the PSEB to remove the chapters related to the history of Sikh gurus and their teachings, Anglo-Sikh wars, Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, the rule of Maharaja Ranjit Singh, Sikh struggle against Mughals.”
 
 “The government’s plea on the issue that certain chapters from last year’s syllabus have been deleted to bring the curriculum on par with the NCERT is merely an excuse and cannot be accepted,” the statement by AAP MLAs Kultar Singh Sandhwan, Saravjit Kaur Manuke, Pirmal Singh Khalsa, Jagdev Singh Kamalu, Jai Kishan Singh Rodi, Kulwant Singh Pandori and Amarjit Singh Sandoa stated.
 
 “We demand a high-level probe and action against officials guilty of deleting chapters related to Sikh Gurus and the glorious past of Sikhism. The government must make a time-bound inquiry in this regard,” the AAP legislators stated.
 
 Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had on Saturday dismissed SAD’s allegation of deletion of chapters about Sikh Gurus from the Class XII history and termed their claims as “malicious”. Slamming SAD leaders for trying to spread “misinformation” on a sensitive religious issue, the chief minister had said the Akalis had shown “gross irresponsibility” by making a “baseless” public statement without bothering to check on the facts.
 
 The fact was that the courses had merely been realigned with the NCERT syllabus to enable students from Punjab to compete at a national level, Amarinder had said and clarified that not a single chapter, or a word, had been deleted by the school board.
 
 The chapters have now been spread across books of classes XI and XII on the recommendation of an expert committee, of which a Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) representative was also a member, he had said.
 
 According to the panel’s recommendations, the board had earlier restructured physics and chemistry courses, and now realigned the history books to make the course more relevant, in line with the NCERT syllabus. Since the committee felt that the students should be exposed to Sikh history from Class XI itself, the chapters on Punjab and Sikh history had been shifted accordingly, while India and Modern History as well as Modern Sikh History had been included in Class XII syllabus, the chief minister had said.
 
 Show copies of new history books: SAD to CM 
 
 SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Sunday challenged chief minister Amarinder Singh to produce new copies of Class XI history books of Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) before the media to prove his claim that chapters on Sikh history had not been deleted from the Class XII syllabus.
 
 “I dare the CM to share with everyone the new book containing all the old chapters on Sikh history today itself before his officers try to deceive the people by getting a new book printed now to hide their mischief by deleting Sikh history from the syllabus,” the former deputy CM said.
 
  had claimed that no chapters had been expunged from the board syllabus and that they had merely been shifted from Class XII to Class XI to align the syllabus with NCERT guidelines.
 
 Describing Amarinder’s denial of SAD’s allegation as “totally erroneous and misleading”, Sukhbir said the CM should have ordered an inquiry into the issue instead of embarrassing himself with a factually incorrect statement which was fed to him by the very officers who were responsible for the mischief in the first place.
 
