Trichy: The waste-laden eight kilometer stretch of Uyyakondan canal is fated to remain as a stinking channel of sewage in the city, thanks to authorities who haven’t yet convened the monthly mandatory review meeting on the protection of the ailing water body for six months now. The disturbing report of the canal, which is languishing under enormous amount of waste dumped into it, came from environmental, non-governmental organisation (eNGO) Thanneer after concluding field inspections the canal on Sunday. Thanneer said the mandatory meeting involving Uyyakondan canal protection committee, various stakeholders and environmentalist was yet to be held for the revival of Uyyakondan. The eNGO said that nine locations in the city are heavily polluting the canal as drainage, sullage, and even sewage through pipes from residential buildings are merging with the canal. "The field inspection to identify the spots where drainage and sullage were let into the canal revealed that more than 50 houses are deliberately letting their waste into the canal through PVC pipes. We would file a report with photographic evidence to the district administration for on field actions," K C Neelamegam, secretary of Thanneer said. Though it was mandatory for Uyyakondan protection committee constituted by the then district administration in 2011 to host monthly meetings, the interaction with district administration and other stakeholders including PWD was not convened for more than six months now, the eNGO alleged. The absence of interaction between the officials from revenue, corporation, PWD, TWAD, and health has resulted in rampant pollution of the water body. “Even though PWD has fenced along a portion of canal to prevent solid waste from being dumped in to it, people have placed PVC pipes through the fences to let out the domestic water waste,” Neelamegam added. It is alleged that district administration was going paying little attention to host review meeting.  Meanwhile, nearly 75 persons mostly schoolchildren in the city cleaned up Uyyakondan banks in Aaarukan road adjacent to Trichy GH. The cleanliness drive being conducted under the banner "Citizen for Uyyakondan" that entered sixth week cleared close to 200Kg of waste from the 100 metre stretch of Uyyakondan bank.