When Kamala*, 18, was told by a contractor that she would be given free education and boarding along with a salaried-job in a textile mill, she thought her troubles were over. But, when she started working in the mill in Avinashi in May 2017, she found she had been duped. "They had told me that I can work and study as well. But inside the mill, they made me only work. When I asked them about studies, they reprimanded me and asked me to go back to work. Kamala called Childline, which rescued her and sent her back home in Tiruvannamalai. She now awaits her Class XII board exams.

 The ‘Sumangali thittam’ or ‘Mangalyam thittam’, under which textile mills in western districts of the state used to recruit adolescent women as apprentices or casual labourers, has taken a new form. Even though the state government stresses that such schemes have been long abolished, mills continue luring young women by promising them free education on mill premises,   and trips abroad. Mill owners also brainwash these women to bring their friends to the mill, a job which was earlier done by contractors. A noticeboard inside a mill’s hostel in Tirupur promises a worker a trip to a water theme park for every two girls she brings to the mill and a silver anklet for every five girls.
 
  
 The scheme, which came into existence around 1995, began by recruiting adolescent women for three years, at the end of which they would be given a lump sum of around `35,000, which would help meet their marriage expenses.
 
 While Kamala was fortunate to escape without being harmed, Banu*, 21, from Tirunelveli, was not as lucky. She joined a spinning mill in Kaduvettipalayam in 2013, where her elder sister was working. On May 30, 2014, an accident while cleaning the mill machinery left her with a maimed left palm. She was treated at a hospital in Coimbatore, but was not paid the promised ‘lump sum’ as she had not completed the three-year contract period. 
 
 Researchers say the scheme was the outcome of various policy changes by the Centre and the state government beginning in the late 1970s. "In 1977, the state government modified   rules under the Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act and extended the apprenticeship period from one year to three years. This enabled mills to recruit people as apprentices for three years and pay them less," says K Narayanasamy, director of Centre for Social Research, Coimbatore. Also, in 1989, the Centre introduced a new textile policy under which it abolished the licence system for textile mills based on spindleage. "Following this, the textile hub got recentralised from cities to villages. Mills started targeting underprivileged women who were school dropouts, as they thought men workers demanded more wages. This led to feminisation of the workforce," he says.
 
 In 1995, a textile mill started in Udumalaipettai was the first to introduce the hostel system, where women were provided lodging inside mill campus. It was in the late 1990s that mills in and around western TN adopted labels such as ‘Sumangali’ (married woman) and ‘Mangalyam’ to denote the hostel system. 
 
 Social workers say women employed in such mills undergo workplace harassment and are vulnerable to health hazards as they inhale cotton dust every day. "It is an irony that the scheme is named Sumangali, but when the women come out of the mills, their heath condition makes them unfit for marriage," says a lawyer.
 
 The mills also are ambivalent while referring to their workers. "They interchange the terms apprentices and contract workers while referring to their workers, which makes it difficult for us to explain the workers’ situation legally," says Narayanasamy.
 
 C Nambi, director of Centre for Social Education and Development, Tirupur cites the absence of trade unions and lack of clarity about child labour laws as the main reasons for the prevalence of such schemes. "Existing labour laws should be enforced in the mills. Hostels in the mills should be asked to be registered under the Hostels Act of 2014, so that authorities will have the right to go into mills and check the living conditions," he adds. "In the long run, creating jobs locally in villages and making education compulsory till 18 years are the only ways to stop women from migrating to western districts for millwork and falling prey to such schemes."
 
 *Names have been changed.
 
