CHENNAI: While   Rail Ltd (CMRL) is gearing up to open two major lines, including the city's largest transit hub at Central, work is in full swing to complete the underground line in North Chennai and link it with the rest of the operational stretch. 

 
 Work to instal critical electrical systems required for the operation of three underground stations between Washermenpet and   will begin soon. 
 
 Metro rail has floated tenders to manufacture, instal, test and commission air-conditioning and tunnel ventilation systems in these underground stations.
 
 Efforts are on to get electrical systems required for Washermenpet, Theagaraya College and Korukkupet station, the tunnels between these stations and the ramp linking the underground section with the elevated corridor, in place. As more than 70% of the civil work is complete, metro rail has also called for companies to install ballastless tracks along the 2km underground stretch. 
 
 "Once the tracks are laid and the systems are installed in the stations, communication and signalling systems will be installed and integrated," an official said.
 
 Metro rail officials said the company which took up the contract to instal electrical systems in the stations and the tunnels would have to integrate them before commissioning. 
 
 The firm will also be expected to train personnel posted at the stations to operate these systems besides providing assistance for maintainence.
 
 The 2km underground line is part of the 9km phase-1 extension project from Washermenpet to   planned at an estimated cost of 3,770crore. Construction work for the underground stretch was launched in July 2016. Both the tunnels connecting three undergrpund stations were completed end of 2017. 
 
 Simultaneously work to build the 7km elevated corridor with seven stations began. The project is expected to be completed by mid-2019. 
 
 When the extension line is opened, it will connect a part of North Chennai with Central metro, CMBT and airport via arterial Poonamallee High Road and Anna Salai through metro trains.
 
