AMARAVATI: Expressing his displeasure over some   leaders publicly criticising the alliance between the saffron party and TDP in AP, chief minister Chandrababu   on Saturday said that his party is following the coalition dharma and it is up to the partner to break the alliance or remain in it.

 Naidu addressed the issue at a press meet convened by him to speak about his   visit. "I am following the coalition dharma. I have strictly instructed my party leaders not to openly criticise BJP despite the state facing problems on many fronts. Some BJP leaders have crossed the limits by openly criticising the TDP and thus the alliance in the state," he said.
 
 Naidu was more vocal when asked about this by some mediamen. "We are following the coalition dharma. It is up to them to break the alliance or remain in it," he said. Such remarks would cause damage to the alliance between the two parties, he said and wanted the BJP national leadership to control the criticism or break the alliance.
 
 TDP sources said Naidu was unhappy at the potshots a few BJP leaders were taking at the state government and TDP. "The CM is particularly angry with the statements made by BJP leader  ," they said. Purandeswari is Naidu's sister-in-law and the two share a bitter political rivalry ever since the days the former was a Union minister in the   government. Before the 2014 general polls, Purandeswari joined the BJP and unsuccessfully contested for the   from   in Kadapa. Since then, Purandeswari has been critical of various schemes of the TDP-BJP government, including the Polavaram project. 
 
 That there is no love lost between the two close members of the NTR clan was evident as within minutes of Naidu's remarks, Purandeswari hit back. "BJP leaders are not criticising the alliance but are only finding fault with the state government for changing the names of the central government's welfare initiatives or diverting central funds. Whether to continue with the alliance or not will be decided by the party leadership," she told the media at an event in Vijayawada. 
 
 
