CHENNAI: VCK leader   met   president   and CPM general secretary   in New Delhi on Wednesday and expressed solidarity with the leaders. The sudden move by the VCK, a DMK ally, comes in the wake of a meeting of Telangana chief minister   with DMK working president M K Stalin in Chennai on Sunday to discuss a possible Federal Front of regional parties, opposed to the BJP. 

 "I am afraid attempts are being made to sideline Congress and build a third front that will pave way for BJP to return to power. All secular forces should join hands to resist such a move," Thirumavalavan told TOI. People like Chandrasekhar Rao and TMC leader Mamata Banerjee are taking the effort to bring together regional parties. The DMK leaders said they were surprised by the meeting. 
 
 
 
 C PM should take the lead in bringing together secular forces, in which Congress is a part, said Thirumavalavan after a meeting with Yechury. The dalit leader told Rahul Gandhi that his party would remain with the Congress.
 
 “We are always anti-communal; we are with you,” the VCK leader is said to have told Rahul. The Congress president welcomed the commitmentof thedalit party to remain anticommunal. Thirumavalavan, who was in the capital to attend the protests organized by a coalition of SC and ST outfits, National Resistance Day, against the dilution of the stringent provisions of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, got immediate appointments with Yechury and Rahul. The separate meetings with the leaders lasted for ten minutes each.
 
 The third front, Thirumavalavan said, was unnecessary “as it would only split the votes”. The VCK leader invited Rahul Gandhi to attendthe party’s “SavetheNation” conference scheduled to be held in Tamil Nadu in June. He requested the Congress leader to fix a date of his convenience. “Rahul agreed to come,” Thirumavalavan said.
 
 Reacting tothe meeting,DMKleader S Duraimurugan said there was no talk about a third front. “We are married (DMK-Congress alliance) for over ten years,” he said. CPM leader T K Rangarajan said there should be a broad unity to defeat BJP at any cost. “The Left, democratic and secular forces will decide. The third front will take you nowhere,” the RS MP said.
 
 TNCC president S Thirunavukkarasar welcomedtheVCKleader’sstatementthatonly Congress under the leadership of Rahul Gandhi could lead the country and not a third front. “There cannot be a third front. V P Singh,IKGujralor HDDeveGowda...nothird front leader could give a full five-year term. Rahul Gandhi will become the next PM,” he said,dismissing the prospectsof a thirdfront. TheCongressleader playeddown the meeting of Rao and Stalin as that of one between two political leaders, and not necessarily for alliance formation. “Both said nothing against Congress,” Thirunavukkarasar said.
 
 VCK was one of the constituents of People’s Welfare Front, an anti-AIADMK and anti-BJP alliance, for the 2016 Tamil Nadu assembly election. Left parties, Vijayakanth’s DMDK andVaiko’sMDMKwere partof the alliance that was routed.
 
 
 
