HYDERABAD: Stating that the nativity clause can be brought in only by the President of India, and not by individual government departments, the Hyderabad High Court on Thursday directed   authorities to allow non-Telangana students to participate in the direct recruitment selection process for the posts of assistant engineers and junior accounts officers of the Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd(TSSPDCL) and TS  .

 
 The bench of acting chief justice   and justice K   gave this direction while hearing two writ petitions filedby G Pavani and others and Ch Nikhil Kumar, challenging the amendment made by the TSSPDCL and TS Transco where all the posts in the power utilities of Telangana were reserved to be filled up only by persons who were natives of Telangana. Consequently, two notifications were issued by TSSPDCL, inviting applications only from the persons of Telangana origin, for filling up the posts of junior accounts officers. Similarly, TS Transco invited applications for filling up the posts of assistant engineers by way of direct recruitment.
 
 Petitioners’ counsel K   told the court that the actions of the officials offended Article16(2) of Constitution of India. He said that these power utilities have got no power or jurisdiction to make such amendments whereby nativity was made the sole criteria for being considered for appointment. “Such a power is vested only with the President of India, and since it was not issued by the President of India, and alsothese amendmentsto rulesdo notfallunder the purview of Presidential Order 1975, they are liable to be set aside,” he said.
 
 
 “They also do not come within Article 371D of Constitution of India, he said. Sub clause (2) of Article16 mandates that no citizen shall, on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex descent, place of birth, residence , be declared ineligible for, or discriminated againstin respectof, any employment or office under the State. The only authority who can make such a discrimination is the Parliament under Sub clause (3) under certain circumstances,” Lakshmi Narasimha said.
 
 
 In the current case, he added, Parliament did not make any such provisions in so far as these electricity entities are concerned.
 
