GHAZIABAD: Rumours about more deaths in the Khoda liquor tragedy kept the police on their toes on Thursday even as more raids were conducted in   to seize illicit liquor. 

 They also started an investigation to ascertain whether locally manufactured hooch was refilled into bottles bearing the brand label ‘Party Special’ that led to the deaths.
 
 Around 9am on Thursday, a police team rushed to Khoda Colony after reports streamed in about another death resulting from consumption of spurious alcohol in Shiv Park area. However, it later emerged that the victim, Avdesh Singh (53), had died as he was suffering from kidney-related ailments for the past six years. The family of Singh informed the police in writing that his death was not due to alcohol consumption. On Tuesday, four persons had died in Khoda Colony allegedly after consuming spurious alcohol purchased locally. 
 
 The condition of the fifth victim, Srinivas, continues to be critical at Lal Bahadur   in Delhi. “Srinivas is in the ICU, and according to the doctors, the chances of his survival are slim,” said his neighbour Suhail. According to the police, the reports of a chemical analysis of the alcohol samples sent to Agra are awaited. 
 
 According to the police, they were investigating whether locally brewed   was refilled into old bottles of ‘Party Special’ and whether any fake label-manufacturing units have been operating in the colony or in any nearby area. It is suspected that sale of other popular brands of alcohol might be underway in Khoda after refilling and sealing old bottles locally. “A conclusion about the contents of the liquor bottles that had been consumed by the victims can be reached only after we receive the forensic reports. The viscera of the victims will also be sent for forensic analysis. It will shed light on the exact cause of death,” SSP   told TOI. 
 
 Apart from conducting the raids, the police have beefed up security in several pockets of Khoda Colony fearing a breakdown in law and order triggered by any possible backlash from the families of those who died. 
 
 
