TRICHY: Children, both girls and boys, have been pouring in complaints about abuses and seeking help from   in the district. During 2017-18, 153 children have so far reached out on   ‘1098’ complaining about sexual abuse by neighbours and relatives, punishment by stepmother, corporal punishment and child labour. 

 As far as   were concerned, Childline received five calls, out of total eight calls, from the city. The rest of the calls came from the rural parts of the district.
 
 “Known people continue to be the offenders in child sexual abuse cases. Either they were relatives or neighbours. Children from uneducated and economically weaker section have been vulnerable to such abuse. While eight cases were referred through Childline, the rest were reported directly to the police,” said S  , city coordinator of  . 
 
 The incidences of sexual abuses among children has called for a scrutiny on awareness measures among parents and children to identify and stay away from the abusers. 
 
 District child protection unit (DCPU) has been entrusted with the task of spreading awareness among children about ‘safe touch and unsafe touch’. The situation showed that the message was yet to reach the target children fully. 
 
 The number of cases registered by the police in the city and rural parts of the district is 47 for 2017-18 so far, according to Childline nodal agency. The cases were booked under the various sections of the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. In 2015-16, 207 calls were received by Childline complaining about various abuses, but the numbers came down to 136 in 2016-17. 
 
 Children also sought help from abuse by the stepmothers. Childline coordinator Thiyagarajan recalled an incident of an 8-year-old girl being branded by a hot iron by her stepmother for a trivial issue when her father was not at home. 
 
 “We warned them of severe legal consequences if they unleashed violence on the children. Such cases were being referred to the police for further action in case of repeated incidents,” said Thiyagarajan. 
 
 In 2017-18, a total of 610 calls were received seeking help for medical, shelter, protection from abuse, emotional support and guidance. The total calls reported in 2016-17 and 2015-16 were 695 and 729 respectively. 
 
 
