AHMEDABAD: The   has run into troubled   — once   spread between Ambetha near Dahej and Bharuch which yielded tonnes of this   is turning into its deathbed, reveals a study by   (CIFRI) in Vadodara and Kolkatta. The study found that in nearly a decade, hilsa catch, which recorded 5,180 metric tonnes in 2006-07, has drastically dwindled by over 90% to mere 419 metric tonnes by 2015.

 The highest catch of hilsa in Gujarat was recorded 15,319 metric tonnes in 1993. But from 1994, the study claims, when Sardar Sarovar Dam became functional it had impacted natural water flow of Narmada which resulted in decline of freshwater availability in the estuary.
 
 The other reasons cited are development of sand bars at the mouth of the estuary which reduced the tidal ingress into the system. “The trickle flow from the dam also led to low depth of water in the river, which in turn led to loss of breeding, nursery and feeding grounds for the pricey fish," says the CIFRI study carried out by a research team scientists Dibakar Bhakta, Wakamban Anand Meetei¸ Gopinathan Vaisakh, Sanjoy Kumar Das and Ranjan Kumar Manna.
 
 Excessive fishing especially as Gujarat does not regulate inland fishing has not helped the cause.
 
 Catching juvenile fish hastened their decline
 
 In West Bengal, some of the popular online marts sell a fully grown hilsa which is just above a kilogram at Rs 1,600! While earlier hilsa used to be a prized catch in the Ganga, Narmada, Mahanadi, Krishna, Tapti, and Godavari. Today, it is confined mainly to the Ganga and the Narmada.
 
 “Catching of juvenile hilsa during winter by ‘golava’ net (small meshed bag net) also led to a rapid decline in hilsa catch. To maintain the sustainable yield of hilsa, selective fishing and control of juvenile catch are the prerequisites along with maintaining regular flow from the dam,” claimed the study.
 
 “We have not measured the actual Hilsa catch this year. There are two commercial fishing season of Hilsa in the Narmada estuary, the first from June to October and another from January to March. Though we are yet to collate any data this year, but a scientific study by CIFRI is on,” says fisheries commissioner Mohammad Shahid.
 
 “More than 90% of Hilsa catch is observed between June to September. In 2017, which was an election year, we had a rough 1,600 tonnes of Hilsa on the 72 Km long estuary as Sardar Sarovar dam had released some water extra water,” admits another senior Gujarat fisheries department official.
 
