BHOPAL: Two minors on a joyride in the BRTS corridor collided head-on with a low-floor bus in   on Friday morning. They were both killed - a helmet that may have saved a life was found tucked away in the storage area of their two-wheeler. 

 The victims -  , 17, and  , 14 - were related. Both families are numbed with grief. Dinesh had borrowed his father's brand new  , saying he will be back in five minutes. Vaibhav was in his school uniform when found crushed under the bus. The impact was so severe that the scooterette crumpled and broke into pieces. An ISI-marked helmet peeped through the wreckage.
 
 
 
 
 This is the second fatal accident in the BRTS corridor in three days. On Wednesday night, a 16-year-old girl was killed and a relative critically injured. Police say Dinesh and Vaibhav were following a low-floor bus in the BRTS corridor in Bairagarh and swerved to overtake it, running headlong into a bus coming from the opposite direction.
 
 Investigation officer ASI Mohan Sharma said Dinesh was a resident of One Tree Hills Road in Bairagarh and Vaibhav, his nephew, lived in TWard. Dinesh worked at a garment shop in Bairagarh while Vaibhav was a Clas VIII student at Sindhu Samaj School. Dinesh’s father Govind had bought the scooter a month ago. Govind told TOI: “At 8.30am, he took my Activa and left, saying he will return in five minutes.”
 
 He said he was going to school to get his marksheet. At 8.45am I received information about the accident.” The injured boys were taken to hospital in a BMC vehicle but Vaibhav died on the way and Dinesh about an hour later in Hamidia. Vaibhav’s father Rakesh said, “Vaibhav was my eldest. He was a bright student. At 8.30am he went to school by autorickshaw. He left his bag in the classroom and went out with Dinesh.”
 
 I received information about the accident around 9am, and rushed to hospital where I found his body in his uniform.”
 
 ASI Sharma said Dinesh’s helmet was found in the dicky of his scooter.
 
 “Had the boy been wearing a helmet, he could have been saved,” he said. The bus driver fled from the spot. Bairagarh police have registered a case and seized the bus.
 
 
