PUNE: A four-member gang targeting people withdrawing cash from banks by spraying itching powder on them were behind the theft of a bag containing Rs3.90 lakh at   on Wednesday.

 Investigations revealed it a day after the incident. The same gang stole bags containing Rs6.57 lakh at four places — Mundhwa, Bhosari, Loni Kalbhor and Uruli Kanchan — over a week.
 
  
 The series of incidents prompted the police to pull up their socks and launch a massive hunt to arrest the gang members. The crime branch is also conducting parallel investigations.
 
 The situation has compelled the police to appeal to people to remain vigilant while depositing or withdrawing money from bank or transporting money from one place to another for business purpose.
 
 In the case registered at Mundhwa, two unidentified men were booked on the charges of theft, but the analysis of CCTV cameras at various places revealed the involvement of two more men. The modus operandi and the use of red motorcycle are identical in all the four cases.
 
 Investigations revealed the gang conducted recee at banks and sprayed itching powder on the targets. The modus operandi helped them in stealing cash bags diverting the attention of the victims.
 
 In the case at Bhosari, the complainant gave description of two suspects riding on a motorbike in the age group of 30-35 years and 35-40 years. The complainants in the other cases could not give the description of the suspects.
 
 An official associated with the investigation into one of the cases said, “CCTV footage capturing images of the gang members is the only evidence in our hands as of now. We have circulated the footage to our policemen and informers for establishing the identity of the bag-lifters at the earliest.”
 
 Another official, requesting anonymity, said, “One more incident of stealing a bag containing gold ornaments of a customer outside a bank was reported at   in February. The same modus operandi was used. There has been no progress in the investigation yet.”
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Pankaj Dahane said, “We are working on certain clues and the gang members involved in the bag-lifting cases will be arrested at the earliest.” He refused to share more details since probe in the cases registered at Mundhwa and Bhosari was under way. The rural police said, “We have registered two complaints and collected CCTV footages but there has been no progress in the investigations.”
 
 
