CHENNAI: The state-run electricity discom   might have paid an extra amount ranging between Rs 1,700 crore and Rs 3,025 crore to suppliers of around 25 million tonnes of coal imported from   in 2012-2016 period, Arappor Iyakkam, an anti-corruption  , said on Thursday.

 These details of over-invoicing of imported coal come two days after the CBI in Delhi filed an FIR against public sector companies NTPC, MMTC, Aravalli Power Company Pvt Ltd and Ahmed AR Buhari, the promoter of Chennai-based Coastal Energy Pvt Ltd.
 
 “These entities adopted a modus operandi whereby coal of an inferior specification and of lower Gross Calorific Value (GCV) was imported and passed off as coal of superior specification and higher value to PSUs,” CBI said in the FIR. All these companies, along with Tangedco’s suppliers, are under the scanner of Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) for over-invoicing the value of imported coal. Citing copies of purchase orders obtained sourced through Rright To Information Act, Arappor said the same modus operandi was followed by Tangedco’s suppliers.
 
 However, when contacted, Tangedco chairman and managing director M Saikumar told TOI that the coal was supplied as per the tendered rate. “I’m not aware of any DRI investigation. Over-invoicing has to be taken care of Customs,” he said. Import of foreign coal has been stopped in 2016 and was re-started only at the end of 2017, due to shortage of indigenous coal, he said.
 
 Tangedco had issued tenders for supply of imported steam coal with a specification that it should have a GCV of 6,000 kilo calories per kg (Kcal/kg) measured on an Air Dried Basis (ADB). This would translate into a GCV around 400-500 lesser on the Gross as Received (GAR) basis as per international coal specifications.
 
 Purchase orders issued by Tangedco from October 2012 to February 2016 show that suppliers were paid at least US$10 higher per tonne of coal as compared to the cost of coal matching the specifications as demanded by the tender. 
 
 A purchase order dated February 29, 2016 shows a supply of 12.4 lakh metric tonnes of coal delivered at the Kamarajar and Karaikal Port for a price of USD 60.95 per metric tonne. However, the actual price of Indonesian coal is USD 42.64 plus a freight charge of USD 5. This supply itself causes a loss of Rs 11.25 crore to the state’s exchequer, Arappor says.
 
 A DRI investigation document dated March 30, 2016, which names Tangedco and its suppliers as under investigation for over-invoicing through intermediary companies in tax havens, states that in many cases, two sets of test reports were issued at the load port, one which showed a lower GCV and another a higher GCV. The test report with higher GCV was conforming to the supply contract between the power generation company and agent of the Indian importer and reflected the inflated value of coal. The lower GCV reflected the actual value.
 
