KOLKATA: Travel on   may witness several more disruptions over the next few months till at least three well-functioning rakes hit the tracks.

 For uninterrupted services, a minimum of 20 trains are required for 300 services a day. But now,   uses 17 rakes—13 air-conditioned and four rehabilitated ones—resulting in a shortfall of three trains. To make up for that shortage, the authorities continue to depend on three old rakes, which have not been rehabilitated, and these three have been causing the snags.
 
 A near-stampede situation occurred at the   station around 9.30pm on Sunday following a power-trip on a Kavi Subhas-bound train, creating among Poila Baisakh revellers, some of whom tried to open the gates and even broke window panes trying to rush out of the dark tunnel. Services in the   section remained disrupted from 9.32pm to 10.10pm. “The shortfall in rakes has created such a situation that the old train, which got stuck at Netaji station on Sunday night, again had to be used on Monday following an extensive check and servicing through the night,” Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said.
 
 Of the 27 rakes in Metro’s fleet, 14 are non-AC, seven of which were sent for mid-term rehabilitation. Of those, four have returned to the Metro. Things are likely to improve by the Pujas after the two ICF Medha prototypes join service and the rest are rehabilitated. But commuters are likely to have a smooth ride from March 2019, when AC rakes will be used for all services. The first of 14 rakes from CRRC Dalian of China is expected well before the Pujas and the rest will arrive in frequent intervals thereafter. “Our maintenance wing is doing a great job in keeping the fleet running. Even on Sunday evening, one of our senior-most officers reached Netaji station at 9.39 pm, barely eight minutes from the snag, and managed to move the rake to the platform. General manager Ajay Vijayvargiya has ordered an inquiry that will be completed in the next twothree days,” Banerjee added.
 
 Netaji station staff said the smashing of windowpanes of the stranded rake was unwarranted. “There were two flashes and power to the third rail tripped. To evacuate passengers, the motorman opened his cabin door for commuters to alight on the platform. Three other doors were also opened. The panes were still smashed,” another officer said.
 
