GURUGRAM: MCG demolished as many as 56 structures built illegally within 300-metre radius of the Indian Air Force ( ) ammunition depot under heavy   cover on Monday. The team of MCG officials carrying out the drive faced resistance from locals, who pelted   at them. Two persons have been detained.

 MCG joint commissioner Vivek Kalia, who was heading the team, said the   drive started around 3pm and went on for around three hours. “Initially, there was resistance from locals, following which cops had to act. We successfully completed the drive because of police support,” he said.
 
 When locals objected to the demolition and pelted stones at the officials, police retaliated by firing tear gas at the crowd. Two persons were rounded up and sent to Palam Vihar police station. MCG officials have filed a police complaint.
 
 The team demolished 56 newly-built or under construction buildings, including 18 houses, 21 boundary walls and 16 commercial shops, within the 300-metre restricted zone of the ammunition depot in Dharam Colony. Around 500 cops had accompanied the MCG officials.
 
 According to the Works of Defence Act, 1903, all structures within 900 metres of the IAF depot are illegal. Additionally, the Punjab and Haryana high court has also ordered demolition of the structures within 300 metres of the restricted zone.
 
 At present, however, the municipal corporation is only sealing and demolishing newly-built structures or structures under construction. Action against other structures will only be taken after the government has decided on the compensation amount for the property owners, MCG officials said.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the district administration has sought claims and objections on the survey report prepared by MCG on illegal buildings within 300 metres of the ammunition depot, which states that there are around 5,987 such properties. The properties listed by MCG include residential, commercial and mixed-use buildings. 
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh recently issued a notice under Section 9 of the Act, stating that any person who has objections with the details published on the property type and ownership in the survey can submit their objections with the district revenue officer by May 15.
 
 
