HYDERABAD: Hundreds of colonies plunged into darkness after heavy rain and hailstorm lashed the city on Thursday afternoon. Power supply got disrupted in over 200 locations due to tripping of supply feeders (11 kv) after trees fell on power lines and electricity poles collapsed. The Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited ( ) officials immediately started the repairing work and power supply is expected to be completely restored by midnight. 

 Officials said the discom call centre was flooded with phone calls as power interruption was reported from across the city. Disruptions were reported from nine feeders in Rajendranagar, 23 feeders in Cyber City division, 19 in Saroornagar, 17 in Habsiguda, 19 in Medchal, 29 feeders in Mehdipatnam, 24 in Azamabad and the highest was 34 in Saifabad that covers Secretariat, Khairatabad and surrounding areas. In south zone, Charminar and surrounding areas were the worst affected. 
 
 "Power was restored in 90% locations within two hours. The rest will be fixed by Thursday. Special teams have been formed to carry out the restoration work," TSSDPCL director (operations), J Srinivas Reddy, told TOI. 
 
 There was 50% drop in power demand. While the power demand was 2,400 MW before rains, it came down to 1400 MW after rains. "The reason for drop in demand is power interruptions and also sudden drop in temperature," TSSPDCL director said.
 
 Meanwhile, TSSPDCL chairman and managing director, G Raghuma Reddy, said 800 disaster management teams have been deployed in various districts, including Greater Hyderabad, to restore power supply on war-footing basis. "  were reported from Siddipet, Suryapet ,Yadadri, Nalongda, and other districts. I spoke with chief engineers in TSSPDCL limits and asked all the field level officers to be available in offices. I appeal people not to touch live electric wires falling on buildings or on the road. In case any power disruption people can call on 1912, or special control room set up by the discom - 73820 72101, 73820 72106 and 73820 71574," said TSSPDCL chairman.
 
 On Thursday evening, energy minister G Jagadish Reddy reviewed power situation with chairman and managing directors of Southern and Northern discoms. The officials said total 1,250 poles collapsed in various districts. The minister directed the officials to immediately restore power in affected areas.
 
 
