Greater Noida: A 35-year-old man picked up for allegedly selling illicit liquor jumped off the vehicle while being taken to the   station and was run over by a truck coming from behind. A large number of people gathered outside the Jahangirpur police chowki to protest the death and assaulted a sub-inspector.

 The family members of Bobby, the deceased, alleged that he had jumped off the vehicle in fear after the police threatened him with arrest. They also alleged that the police personnel had demanded Rs 50,000 to release him and his accomplice. The police have launched a probe.
 
 SSP Love Kumar said the police had received a tip-off that a few persons had been creating a ruckus near Jahangirpur after drinking. “A police team reached the spot and apprehended two persons — Bobby and Kallu. They were being driven to the police station. On the way, Bobby jumped off the vehicle in order to escape. A speeding truck coming in the same direction hit him and he died,” he said.
 
 A large number of people who had gathered outside the chowki also vandalised some shops in the vicinity and stalled traffic for some time. A group of protesters assaulted a sub-inspector, who was later admitted to a hospital.
 
 Bobby’s family members claimed he had jumped off the vehicle in fear. “They pushed the two persons into the police vehicle and brought them to the local police chowki. The cops had demanded Rs 50,000 for their release, but the two had agreed to pay Rs 30,000. The police personnel did not accept it and were forcibly taking them to Jewar police station,” said a local resident.
 
 “This scared the two. Bobby jumped off the vehicle in order to escape and was crushed by a speeding truck,” said Muazzam, another resident.
 
 Some people also alleged that Bobby had been pushed off the vehicle.
 
 Jewar MLA Thakur Dhirendra Singh, who had also reached the spot, spoke to the family members. “We don’t know the exact sequence of events. But this is negligence on the part of the police personnel accompanying the two persons. I urge the police to register a case and ensure a fair probe,” he said.
 
 
