GURGAON: The district court has summoned  , an ACP with Gurgaon police, and four other city cops in a case filed by former councillor  , who has alleged she was beaten up and detained illegally during a drive to remove squatters in May 2015.

 Singh spent three days in prison after being slapped with rioting, attempt to murder and other Indian Penal Code charges. 
 
 In her order dated January 29, judicial magistrate (first class)   said prima facie case there was a case against the five cops under sections 166, 166A, 167 (public servant disobeying law with intent to cause injury), 204 (destruction of evidence), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restraint) and 365 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code and asked them to appear before it on March 6. Other than the ACP, the others to receive the summons are sub-inspectors Rani Devi and Deep Chand, constable Asha and SHO  . 
 
 All four are from  . Gurgaon’s police’s public relations officer Ravinder Yadav said all the cops would appear in court and record their statements.
 
 Singh had approached the court against these cops and as well as some senior Huda officials, complaining of illegal arrest and detention. Her lawyer Ashok Verma said the main case is of kidnapping. “The court has noted that Nisha Singh was kidnapped and confined in an illegal manner and has asked all five to appear before it on the next date of hearing,” he said.
 
 On May 15, 2015, Huda and Gurgaon Police had carried out a demolition drive at an old settlement in Fatehpur Jharsa (Sector 47). The villagers resisted the demolition and a clash with police ensued in which many women and children were injured. Singh, then the local councilor, had responded to villagers’ calls to her to intervene. She had reached the site with her driver and was recording the events.
 
 “There were several others like me who were recording the demolition drive on their mobile phones. The cops objected to that and snatched my phone, which has till date not been found, and then used brutal force. They rained down batons on me and my driver. Then they arrested me,” Singh told TOI on Saturday.
 
 For the next five hours, she said her family wasn’t told where she was. “My family and wellwishers went to Sadar police station but were not told about my whereabouts. I was put in a police van that took several rounds of the city. I was taken to a different police station. Only around 8.30pm was I taken to Civil hospital. I was in a very bad state and unable to walk from severe back pain. Along with 20 other men and women from the village, I was charged under sections like attempt to murder and inciting violence,” she said.
 
 Singh spent a day in hospital and three days at Bhondsi jail before she was granted bail. She subsequently lodged a complaint with the National Human Rights Commission got the agency to conduct a week long investigation in which it found the police guilty of flouting norms of arrest and torture in custody.
 
 
