GUWAHATI: It took close to 40 hours of extensive search, constant tracking of cellular signals and deployment of women cops in plain clothes to track down 21-year-old   Hussain - the prime accused in the rape and murder of a Class V student at   in   district. 

 Zakir was finally traced to the Itapara locality of Nagaon town, about 40 km from his home at   in Batadraba on Sunday evening, when he tried to call one of his friends. The signal from Zakir's mobile phone was traced to nearby Raha and his friend was immediately picked up. He disclosed the location of Zakir who made a last-ditch attempt to escape by sprinting out of his relative's house. However, police nabbed him. Zakir's father  , mother and brother have also been picked up. 
 
 A police source said Zakir, a history-sheeter, has confessed to his crime. 
 
 According to a police source, Zakir allegedly raped the girl at her home in front of two minor boys, who stood guard outside the house, last Friday. The other members of her family were out on work at that time. When they were leaving the place, the girl threatened to reveal everything to her brother after which Zakir returned with kerosene, poured it on the girl and set her ablaze. She was rushed to Nagaon Civil Hospital with 90% burn injuries and was then referred to Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH). However, she died on the way to GMCH early on Saturday. 
 
 The incident has triggered widespread protests and people are demanding tough punishment, like death sentence, for those guilty of rape. Inside the assembly, too, lawmakers are putting pressure on the government for adopting new laws to deal with convicted rapists firmly. The girl's brother, who did not want to be named, has demanded death sentence for his sister's killers.
 
 Police said they are doing everything to put up a strong case against the accused. "The victim has named all the three accused in her dying declaration and this piece of evidence is very strong. Police are taking all measures to ensure that they get the highest quantum of punishment in the court of law," said SP (Nagaon) Shankar Raimedhi. The two minors, who were arrested on Friday evening, have also named Zakir. According to locals, Zakir had tried to molest a girl along with his father long back. Zakir's brother was lynched by people for allegedly raping a girl some years ago. Zakir was also in jail in connection with a burglary case in 2014. 
 
 
