KOLKATA:   on Tuesday went the whole hog against BJP over the pulling down of Lenin’s   in Tripura’s Belonia.

 “Lenin is not our leader, but we are tolerant of all views. We don’t support dismantling of statues of heroes be it that of Gandhiji, Netaji, Swami Vivekananda, Marx or  . I will raise my voice,” the chief minister said at a public meeting in Bankura’s Patrasayar on Tuesday.
 
 In saying so, Banerjee took care that her statement was not misunderstood by her party supporters, who had fought   tooth and nail during Left Front rule. “I fought against CPM atrocities in Singur, Nandigram and Netai. But that doesn’t prevent me from opposing BJP’s atrocities in Tripura. Beat CPM with your development if you can,” she said.
 
 The CM’s reactions came on a day CPM general secretary   held that Trinamool and BJP were feeding each other in Bengal with the former pandering to minority fundamentalism and the latter fomenting majority communalism.
 
 Banerjee lost no time to make light of CPM’s comme-nts. “CPM abuses me every day and then goes into an understanding with BJP. We don’t do what CPM and   does with BJP. We didn’t take the retaliation route after coming to power in Bengal. Instead, we gave the ‘badla noi, badal chai’ slogan.”
 
 The chief minister took to a no-holds-barred offensive against BJP despite the saffron tsunami in Tripura. “Three days after coming to power in Tripura taking all possible means — coercion, money power and manipulating EVMs — BJP has started pulling down statues. People won’t tolerate this arrogance,” she said.
 
 Banerjee joining the Left chorus over Tripura, her sending birthday wishes to former chief minister   or her making a statement in the Assembly a day before the   poll results that she would have liked Manik Sarkar to win the polls, have raised eyebrows among a section of Trinamool supporters. But political observers see this as Banerjee’s attempt to blunt the rabid anti-Trinamool mindset among a section of Left voters that prompted them to vote for BJP in the elections.
 
 A peek at the poll results since 2011 shows BJP in Bengal has improved its vote share mostly at the cost of Left’s vote-bank. With chances of the Left support base shrinking further following the Tripura debacle, Banerjee is trying to prevent a further transfer of Left votes to BJP’s kitty because that can throw a challenge to Trinamool in some pockets, say observers.
 
 Sensing the game plan, BJP leader Mukul Roy has appealed to TMC old guards to dump the party and join BJP on the ground that the party’s USP — its anti-CPM stance — has been compromised.
 
 
