Nagpur: Harmony Events on Tuesday organized a musical evening titled ‘Who Jab Yaad Aye’ to celebrate the evergreen voice of one of the greatest singers Mohammed Rafi at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall. The foot-tapping songs of the singer kept the spirit of the audience high.

 Artistes from the city and nearby areas performed the legend’s numbers that ranged from peppy to soulful to romantic songs. The concert started with the smooth notes of ‘Sukh ke sab saathi’ by lead singer Mohammed Aslam. The Mumbai singer displayed versatility by singing many melodious compositions like ‘Nazar na lag jaaye’, ‘Mere mitwa mere meet re’, ‘Bekhudi mein sanam’, ‘Dard-e-dil’ and ‘O haseena zulfonwali’. 
 
 Songs like ‘Chaand mera dil’, ‘Yeh dil tum bin’ and ‘Vaadiyan mera daaman’ made the hall ooze with romance. The title track of the concert, ‘Woh jab yaad aye’ struck a chord with the listeners with its lyrical beauty. Rafi had lent his voice for many blockbuster movies like ‘Kashmir ki Kali’ and ‘Yaadon ki Baarat’ whose songs were sung during the evening.
 
 The duet songs performed by Aslam and city singer Gauri Shinde were a hit among the audience. ‘Aji roothkar ab’ and ‘O hansini’ were a few gems that shone bright during their performance. Manisha Nischal, a singer from Pune, also performed and won hearts with soulful duets like ‘Isharo isharo’, ‘Parbat ke iss paar’ and ‘Deewana hua badal’ with Aslam.
 
 Anchor Naseer Khan spoke on the life and ideologies of the singer in between songs and kept the audience engaged in his witty camaraderie. The concert was conceptualized by Rajesh Samarth.
 
 Quotes
 
 I loved the concept of the concert and enjoyed a lot. Aslam matched the voice of legends and I look forward to more of such events in future
 
 Devendra Shende | private employee
 
 The concert was phenomenal. I have not attended like this since long. The performers were top notch which made the experience all the more enjoyable
 
 Pramod Kitke | singer
 
 Soulful singing by singers made me feel nostalgic. I love Mohammad Rafis’ songs and he is still one of my favourite singers. This concert almost brought his voice back to life for me
 
 Sumitra Ingle | homemaker
 
 (Reporting by Bhagyashree Kashyap)
 
 
