BANGARMAU (UNNAO): Could a   have infected such a  ? That’s the question   of three villages in  , living under the  , are asking.

 A social organisation has suggested that the HIV cases spread following a huge influx of migrant workers involved in construction of the Lucknow-Agra Expressway, located just 3 km from Bangarmau town. Many of the migrant workers use the services of a group of sex workers active in Bangarmau and activists fear this may have led to the HIV spreading among the residents of Prem Ganj and two other villages. Prem Ganj, which reported the highest number of cases, is located close to the expressway.
 
 “When such a mega expressway project was launched, the health agencies should have dedicated groups in the region to monitor the migrant workers, carry out regular health checkups and collect blood samples,” said a senior member of the social organisation.
 
 Alok, a resident of Prem Ganj, said there have been growing instances of TB and people dying after brief illnesses in the locality for quite some time. The first screening camp was held in November last year. After screening, those who tested positive for HIV were asked to report at Kanpur, 50 km away. “Many people never made that trip for want of money,” he said, adding, “The quack could be one of the reasons, but the health department officials are highlighting him just to save their own skins.”
 
 
 
 Among the 58 people of Unnao district who had been found infected with HIV, 25 so far have contacted doctors at the anti-retro viral therapy (ART) centre in Kanpur. They have been counselled by the doctors and are currently on medication.P 7
 
 ‘Can’t block spread, since cause of disease not known’
 
 Meanwhile, locals from nearby pockets are in a panic. Munnu, a resident of Bhatpuri, an adjoining village, says, “We cannot block the way of patients of the affected villages to stop them from spreading the disease since the authorities don’t know what exactly caused the disease. We will have to rely on our rituals and prayers.”
 
 Twenty-four hours after the arrest of the quack, Rajendra Yadav, the health authorities have not been able to zero in on the village to which he belongs.
 
 The authorities concerned claim the address mentioned in the FIR on the basis of inputs from the people of three villages, the majority of whom were his patients, was found to be false.
 
 Chief medical officer S P Chowdhary said, “The ‘majra’ Shiv Baksh Kheda of Ganj Moradabad town of the district, where the quack was supposed to be resident, was found to be fake by the health department probe team.”
 
 Bangarmau Kotwali SHO Arun Pratap Singh, however, contradicted the CMO’s claims, saying, “There is no ‘if’ and ‘but’ as Rajendra Yadav belongs to the same pocket.”
 
 Unnao police, meanwhile, produced Yadav on Thursday before a court which remanded him to 14 days in judicial custody.
 
 The SHO said remand would be sought to question the quack on Friday. Police have found that he had worked as a helper at a Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery doctor’s clinic in the past. Identified as Dr Dikshit, police say his clinic is near Sandila Chauraha.
 
 “Once we get custody of him, we will take him to the clinic and question the doctor. His statement will be recorded,” said Singh.
 
 
