AHMEDABAD: The   (AMC) and   found themselves at the receiving end again on Tuesday, when the   questioned their inaction on removing stray cattle from public streets and about the report on damaged roads.

 A bench headed by Justice M R Shah pulled up the authorities for the persistent problem with stray cattle on city roads. The judges commented that the   and not stray cattle. Animals stray on to city roads in the absence of adequate grazing land and everybody knows what the condition of grazing lands at present is. Gauchar land is given to automobile and other companies. It is for the government to find a solution, and the court is not an implementing authority, the judges remarked.
 
 The government assured the court that the authorities are trying to resolve the issue. Further hearing on this issue will take place on February 6.
 
 The court also came down heavily on civic authorities over poor road conditions and the progress on road repairs. The court said that the AMC collects tax from the people and takes action against defaulters. It questioned whether there is a provision for action against the authorities, for not providing amenities to people even after collecting tax from them.
 
 The court was unhappy at the civic authority’s reports on the road conditions and said that AMC was directed to come up with a report and complete road repairs in a month’s time last August. The civic body was unable to state anything about road conditions apart from the 231 roads it selected for a survey after the monsoon.
 
 The HC made the municipal commissioner and chief town planner remain present in court for the hearing. It sought details on road conditions and all TP schemes by the next date of hearing. AMC told the court that after the monsoon, it conducted a random survey of 984km of road and 70km in damaged condition. About 2.1km of road was ‘very badly damaged’, it said. To the HC’s question on resurfacing of roads along metro rail routes, the AMC stated that many of these roads have been resurfaced, and it will complete resurfacing of the stretch near Doordarshan by February 3.
 
 
