Chennai: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Tuesday gave enough indication that AIADMK will not back a no-confidence motion by Telugu Desam Party and YSR Congress against the NDA government. Even as the deadline set by the Supreme Court for formulating a Cauvery water sharing scheme draws nearer, the issue rocked the assembly with the opposition accusing the Edappadi K Palaniswami government of being inept in handling its affairs.

 “The AIADMK has created history by stalling the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha proceedings since the start of the session to demand that the Centre constitute the Cauvery Management Board or formulate a scheme as per the SC order,” said the chief minister. “No other party has come forward to fight for our cause. TDP and YSR Congress are trying to give notices for a no-trust motion for the sake of a special category status for Andhra Pradesh,” he said.
 
 Palaniswami was replying to deputy leader of opposition S Duraimurugan, who tried to corner the government with a direct question as to whether AIADMK would support the proposed no-confidence motion. 
 
 “Cauvery water is our livelihood and our right. While TDP was in the NDA and got berths in the Union cabinet, there were BJP representatives in the Andhra Pradesh cabinet as well. AIADMK is neither in alliance with the BJP nor is it a constituent of the NDA. Their notice for a no-confidence motion is being given for their own cause. We are fighting for a different cause by stalling Parliament,” said Palaniswami.
 
 Fisheries minister D Jayakumar wondered why the opposition party had not approached former AICC president Sonia Gandhi to pressure the Congress government in Karnataka to release Cauvery water for Tamil Nadu. This prompted leader of opposition M K Stalin to retort, “The fisheries minister has given me a chance to speak. First you declare that it is not possible for your government to solve problems faced by the state. Then we will work and show you,” said Stalin.
 
 The DMK leader wanted to know whether the Centre has given any indication of setting up of the Cauvery management board. “Two days ago, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam gave a detailed reply on the issue. Only six days are left for the Supreme Court deadline to end. Can the state government at least now state whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi has agreed to meet an all-party delegation from Tamil Nadu or has given a promise to constitute the board? I wish to know from the government,” said Stalin.
 
 eom
 
 
