CHENNAI: A team of   is studying   that live around hot plume spewing hydrothermal vents on the active tectonic plates, thousands of kilometres below the surface of the southern Indian Ocean. Another team is drilling a hole into an ice-shelf in Antarctica to study global warming. Back home, researchers have built and tested a 5m long crawler that can mine polymetallic nodules about 6,000km from the coast. In the Bay of Bengal, research is on to study the impact of fresh water influx on monsoons. 

 Indian scientists are involved in the four different tasks, but all of them are tied to the field of ocean science and research. 
 
 With resources in the land depleting, countries have turned their attention towards the depths of blue. Be it for food, water, resources like minerals or weather prediction, extensive research is being carried out by the US, UK and Europe in the oceans, and India is following suit. With the Centre now giving a push to ocean research by launching   at an estimated Rs10,000 crore, exciting times are ahead for oceanographers and those aspiring to become one. "Two decades ago, we had no satellites, resources or money to launch such projects. Today, we have everything including our own ship that is deployed for research activities," said M Ravichandran, director, NCAOR, Goa, which conducts research in Arctic, Antarctica and the Himalayas.
 
 Ocean research is one of the few fields where a graduate in any discipline including physics, chemistry, electrical or mechanical engineering can make a career. For instance, in deep sea mineral exploration, a geological oceanographer and a metallurgist survey the seabed for metals. Once identified, electrical, electronic and mechanical engineers involved in developing and deploying underwater vehicles come into the picture. Simultaneously, chemical, physical and geological oceanographers keep track of the changing conditions at sea. On the side, a biological oceanographer attempts to study unrecorded marine organisms. "When candidates come only with a qualification in basic sciences, it takes time for us to train them to our requirement," said Ravichandran, stressing that a master’s in a specialised course is preferred.
 
 There are a few institutions that offer niche ocean science courses at the undergraduate level and most of these have started over the last decade. Academicians say these specialised bachelor courses have clubbed basic sciences, maths and certain subjects specific to ocean sciences. "Without mathematics and statistics, you may not be able to understand the physical and chemical aspect of the oceans. Very few institutions in the country offer these specialised courses at the bachelor level because the syllabus must be refined and periodically updated to stay on a par with other countries," said T Balasubramanian, former director-cum-dean, Centre of Advanced Study in Marine Biology, Annamalai University. The university has a five-year programme on ocean science and technology.
 
 In the private sector, offshore oil and gas platforms offer opportunities for oceanographers. But experts say there is a dearth of skilled manpower in the field of ocean research. While academicians blame it on the lack of collaboration between academia and research institutions, scientists point out a lack of commitment. "There is a shortage of young researchers because it involves projects that need long-term dedication. We need people who can think laterally, use tools and interpret the large amount of data we collect to find solutions to issues related to sea-level rise and climate change," said R Venkatesan, head, Ocean observation systems, National Institute of Ocean Technology.
 
 
