NEW DELHI: Delhi will soon get its fourth   power plant with the capacity to consume 1,500 tonnes of   every day while   15 MW of electricity. The project was hanging fire since 2016 when it was conceived due to litigation in Delhi high court. The project will come up on the 12-acre plot below the mountain of trash at  . An abandoned compost factory currently occupies the site, but the high court has directed the agency, which had obtained a stay on the factory’s removal, to vacate the site within three months.

 “The road for the development of the waste-to-energy plant has become clear now,” said  , commissioner, North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Around 4,000 tonnes of waste is generated daily in the north corporation area. Of this, only around 2,000 tonnes are used by the waste-to-energy plant at Narela-Bawana, 15 km from Bhalswa. The remaining garbage, including hazardous waste, is dumped at ever growing mound at the landfill.
 
 The experts say it is dangerous to dump any more garbage at Bhalswa, considering it was declared exhausted in 2006 but continues to be a dump for both the north corporation and some south corporation areas. Unchecked growth of the trash mountain poses a threat to the lives of hundreds of people living in colonies at the foot of the towering heap. The collapse of a similar mound in   last September exposed the vulnerability of people to such accidents.
 
 “The project tender for the new   will be floated in a couple of days and it will be developed next year,” said a north corporation official. He added that the commissioning of the plant would leave the civic body dealing with just   of waste every day. This would be managed through decentralised composting, which the corporation will promote according to the recent bylaws on solid waste management notified by Delhi government.
 
 The existing waste-to-energy plants at Ghazipur and Okhla daily process 1,500 tonnes and 2,000 tonnes of solid waste, respectively, and produce 12Mw and 16Mw of electricity, while the Narela-Bawana plant generates around 20Mw.
 
 
