BENGALURU:   broke out in   on Friday afternoon after some protesters, who were demanding justice for the Kathua rape victim, clashed with the jurisdictional police. A police jeep was damaged and two constables were injured. 

 Police forced shops and   to close and a platoon of Border Security Force personnel along with over a hundred policemen were deployed in the area to maintain peace. “The situation was immediately brought under control,” said Ajay Hilori, deputy commissioner of police (East). 
 
 While the jurisdictional police claimed the group had not obtained permission to stage a  , the protesters argued that they were not violating the law and were only peacefully demanding protection for children. 
 
 Police claimed they were caught by surprise when the group suddenly arrived from the direction of Commercial Street, shouting slogans and holding placards. “The election code of conduct is in place and it does not permit such protests,” a senior police officer said. “Permission must be obtained from local police and election commission to take out a protest march.”
 
 Police say trouble broke out when they asked the group to stop their march after learning that they had not obtained permission.
 
 “But they refused to listen with some of them demanding what wrong they had done,” the officer said. “A verbal altercation ensued and some youths pushed a police constable. On seeing a colleague being attacked, police officers began pushing the protesters aside. Some youths attacked us and we had no choice but to cane the unruly crowd.”
 
 But youths claim the police cast the proverbial first stone. “They saw the placards we were holding and they began caning us,” one protester said. “We told them it was wrong to beat us and some of us grabbed their lathies.” More police were rushed to defuse the situation and shops and eateries were asked to close.
 
 Mohammed Ismail, a local shop owner, said, “The agitators are not from Shivajinagar or surrounding areas. We don’t know who arranged the protest.” Police detained about 20 youths. 
 
 
