JAIPUR: On the Union home ministry’s advisory over the   call given by some groups on Tuesday, the state police have beefed up security across Rajasthan on Monday. In some of the districts, including Jaipur, internet services were suspended from 10 pm Monday night to 10 pm Tuesday night while IGs and SPs across the state have specifically been asked to take stringent action against those who indulge into violence.

 Taking lessons from the incidents of violence in Hindaun City, Gangapur City, Seewana and Jaitaran in Rajasthan the police have also kept 30 companies which means 3000 men of Central para military forces (CPMF) which included BSF and CRPF. Since police could not anticipate on time that violence may take place during the SC/ST protest and Bharat Band call a week ago, this time intelligence and senior officers have asked to take every necessary action to avert violence.
 
 
 “We have asked all the IGs and SPs to take whatever preventive action in the wake of the Bandh call. If they feel they need to suspend internet services they can. As per need the deployment of CPMF would be organised at various parts in the state,” said NRK Reddy, additional director general (ADG), Law and order, Rajasthan police told TOI.
 
 Home minister,   too has asked police to take stringent action against those who indulge into violence. “Bandh call is already seen on social networking sites. Still we have asked police to be extra careful and deal with it strictly. We won’t let anyone to disturb law and order and peace in the state,” Kataria said.
 
 In Jaipur internet services were suspended from 10 pm on Monday and will remain suspend till 10 pm on Tuesday.
 
 “We have not given any permission for protest, dharna or bandh. If people will do we will take action. Section 144 is already there in the city where people can’t assemble for any protest without the prior permission of the police,” said Sanjay Agarwal, commissioner of police.
 
 According to the sources in the police one company of border security force(BSF) has also been put on standby mode in Jaipur. “We will not hesitate to use force in case troubles are made by some miscreants,” said a senior officer.
 
 Centre government on Monday issued advisory to all states and union territories to take precautionary measures in view of calls for Bharat Bandh on April 10. The   advised the states to   and make appropriate arrangements to prevent any untoward incident, including issue of  
 
 
