KOLKATA: Cricketer Md   was interrogated for over three-and-ahalf-hours on Wednesday, the first time since his wife   lodged an FIR on March 9 against him and five of his family members making several allegations, including attempt to murder, poisoning, rape and dowry harassment.

 Shami’s elder brother Haseeb Ahmed — the main accused in the rape allegation — too, was questioned at Lalbazar. Police sources said the cricketer cooperated with the sleuths of the Women’s Grievance Cell, but denied all allegations against them. Shami was accompanied by his lawyer.
 
 
 Police recorded the duo’s statements. “We questioned Md Shami on every aspect, keeping in mind all the allegations made by Hasin. This included questions on his trip to Dubai and Hasin’s visit to her in-laws at Amroha, UP, for a couple of weeks in December 2017, when the alleged rape took place. We will now cross-check their statements with the evidence we have collected from Hasin and the statements of 12 people whom we spoke to in UP,” said a source. The police team was led by DC DD (II) Niloo Sherpa Chakraborty.
 
 The questioning, said sources, was carried out in two parts. Haseeb arrived around noon and was taken to the detective department wing for questioning. Shami reached Lalbazar around 1.45pm. He too, was escorted to the same building. After the two were interrogated separately, they were taken to the chamber of joint CP (crime) Praveen Tripathi where Shami spoke in his brother’s presence. They left Lalbazar around 5.30pm. A senior officer said Shami has been asked to go to Bangalore, where his team — Delhi Daredevils — will take on   next Saturday. Shami’s team left a day earlier without him as he was summoned by the Kolkata Police.
 
 According to police sources, if required, they might question Shami’s sister and mother — both named in Hasin’s FIR. “We will not summon them to Lalbazar. We might talk to them at a suitable spot — maybe at their home,” added the source.
 
 Shami on several occasions in the past rubbished the allegations made against him and even hinted that Hasin may have fabricated the evidence.
 
 Police said the decision to question Shami was made following the due process of law. “We have recorded Hasin’s statement. She has also recorded her statement before a magistrate. Thus, it is important we speak to Shami in this regard,” said an officer.
 
 
 
 
