AHMEDABAD: With Indian Oilseed and   (IOPEPC) under union ministry of commerce estimating   production of 32 lakh metric tonnes-the highest in the history of Gujarat- in 2017-18, the record production could spell fresh troubles for Vijay Rupani-led government in the state, which had faced a major political crisis over the minimum support price (MSP) of groundnut along with cotton during recently concluded assembly elections.

 Although the state government has procured 6.77 lakh tonnes of groundnut at MSP to ease farmers’ woes, the higher output has forced farmers to sell at a price lower than the MSP in local mandis. Industry players opine that bumper production could further put market prices under pressure as the government is only procuring quality groundnuts. On the other hand, oil millers, oilseed expellers and exporters are treading cautious in purchasing the commodity as they see Rs 800 per 20 kg as viable price for profitable business. The government is paying MSP of Rs 900 per 20 kg.
 
 
 
 
 PALANPUR:   growers in north Gujarat are feeding huge quantities of tubers to cattle in gau shalas in Banaskantha. With prices falling to Rs two to Rs six per 20 kg and fresh arrivals expected from January 17, the farmers who stocked their produce are now selling the crop in distress. TNN P6
 
 
 
 
 The groundnut production for 2017-18 is higher by 2.5 lakh metric tonnes than 2016-17. “Off late, the number of farmers coming to mandis to sell their groundnut crop at market rates has decreased as the state government is paying MSP of Rs 900 per 20 kg. However, delay in payment has been the major concern and hence the farmers are forced to sell of their produce at a lower price. In the APMC, Rajkot, the price range was Rs 650 to Rs 850 on Friday, which was lower than the MSP,” secretary,  , Rajkot, B R Tejani said.
 
 A secretary of another APMC said the MSP of Rs 900 per 20 kg is not acceptable to the traders and hence they are refusing to buy at prices at par with MSP. “Further, the quality of groundnut has also taken a beating this year.”
 
 Director Agriculture B M Modi admitted that the government was only purchasing quality groundnut as there are set norms for purchase of crop at MSP and hence only those groundnut which complies with the norms was purchased by the government.” Agriculture minister R C Faldu was not available for his comment. Amid bumper production, procurement at MSP was hampered due to finance issues earlier and now shortage of bags has adversely affected groundnut purchase at MSP.
 
 The new government in state had taken the issue very seriously soon after taking the charge. Even in the first cabinet meeting decision were taken to purchase groundnut at MSP.
 
 “In order to ensure MSP for farmers and supply to industry players, Gujarat government should follow Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojna or price deficit finance scheme adopted by Madhya Pradesh government for soyabean procurement, whereby farmers sell commodity in open market and government pays farmers the differential amount between rates in mandis and MSP. This way, the industry gets supply, farmers get MSP price and the state government does not have to bother about storage of the commodity,” executive director, the Solvent Extractors Association of India, BV Mehta said.
 
