MUMBAI: They were once sworn  , plotting to kill each other to avenge personal losses caused by armed militias they led. Now,   (59) and   (58) are comrades-in-arms, closing chasms, promoting peace and reconciliation. Co-executive directors at Inter-faith Mediation Centre, Kaduna (Nigeria), the imam and   were in Mumbai on Tuesday after attending a session on Celebrating Differences, Melting Divisions at Panchgani as part of 50th anniversary celebrations of Initiatives of Change (IofC) recently. Formerly called Moral Rearmament (MRA), IofC is a world-wide movement of people of diverse cultures committed to transform society through change in human behaviour.

 “We spend more time together than we spend with our respective wife,” quips Pastor James, a former youth Christian leader who lost his right arm and his only son in pitched battles against rival Muslim groups in North Nigeria. “Between 1980-92, we were misled by religious leaders who instigated us to fight in the name of religions. Now, we are brothers guided by the idea of forgiveness and reconciliation in our faiths,” explains Imam Muhammad, who had lost his spiritual mentor and two cousins to senseless communal violence that singed northern Nigeria then. Pastor James admits that leaders in both communities used to try to pull down one another’s religion. Imam Muhammad would emulate supremacist Islamic preacher Ahmed Deedat, while Pastor James would quote Islamic texts out of context to prove its “inferiority”. So how did the transformation happen?
 
 In 1992, the imam and pastor were at a government building in Kaduna for a government-launched immunization programme. “My blood boiled when I saw James there. Likewise, James was very angry and wanted to avenge the loss of his son, and looked at me with piercing eyes. But then a journalist came forward and told us to join our hands,” recalls the imam who, after he befriended the pastor and began preaching peace, was dubbed a traitor by many Muslims in his country. Extremist elements among Christians too did not like the truce between the two leaders and slammed Pastor James, calling him a betrayer to the faith. Undeterred, they moved ahead with their peace missions, signing the historic peace declaration of 2002.
 
 Their story of transformation from preachers of hatred and violence to messengers of love and reconciliation has been captured by ‘The Imam and the Pastor’, a documentary which also celebrates a grass-root initiative to rebuild communities torn apart by conflicts.
 
 While admiring India’s multicultural ethos, both warn India against falling into the trap of ‘majoritarian itch’ to suppress marginalized sections. “India can become a role model if it refuses to abandon its tradition of inclusivism. Do not tolerate the other. Learn to accept the other and you will be a guide to the world community in communal harmony and unity despite so much diversity,” says Pastor James while Imam Muhammad nods.
 
 
