Ever since she played Jimsy in the much-loved Maheshinte Prathikaram,   has been that quintessential daredevil girl, in the minds of Mollywood movie buffs. And through one role after another, she has carried off the image with ease as well. The singer-actress has just finished working on her first female-oriented film and the few glimpses of the character that have come out have won her applause. Aparna tells us more about her new films, music and the prejudices that are still prevalent in our film industry.

 
 
 
 
 I guess it's the Jimsy effect continuing! Actually, I would always love to try something else that's new and do a variety of roles. But, other than being bold, all of my characters have been different in lots of ways, so I don't feel a sense of repetition. Even my character in Kamuki, Achamma, is someone who became what she is after being just another typical conventional girl, for many years. That strengthens the character. 
 So far in my career, it was Jimsy that I related to the best. Now, it is Achamma. She is my age, involves herself in my kind of fun and is in a setting that I know better than that of Jimsy's. 
 
 
 
 
 We faced many roadblocks to even start the film as producers shied away from it, as the woman takes the lead in this story. The project was even on the verge of being aborted, and many actors and technicians didn’t want to associate with it, due to this reason. Well, it is a fact that the industry still has a prejudice against female oriented films, it is part and parcel of the culture. But then, all of it took a positive turn when finally we got a gem of a producer, a newcomer to the industry. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I did wonder why all are saying no to it, quoting this reason. They were just easily judging the film based on this aspect and being so negative regarding everything about it. What to say... now I feel there is no point in being surprised at it anyway. 
 We are not used to asking who the director or actress in a movie is, it is tagged based on its lead actor’s name and questions are always on the lines of, for instance, ‘Is it a Lalettan movie or Mammukka movie.’ Regardless, we put our heart into Kamuki and the reactions to its videos prove the film has turned out better than our expectations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 The lead characters of Kamuki, Achamma and Hari (Askar Ali), are based on real people and our director Binu knows them personally. They even studied in the same college that’s featured in the film, Sri Sankara, Kalady. We were supposed to meet them on the last day of the shoot but couldn’t, but we got a good picture of them through Binu’s words. Achamma is a lot ‘painkili’ too and that’s why the movie has such a title. Over time, she transforms.
 
 Apart from the female-centric theme, the other characters also amazed me in many ways. Hari, for instance, is visually challenged but he isn’t someone who considers it a handicap. People might feel many instances shown in it are unrealistic, but those are things that he truly did in life. Being part of such an initiative was extremely novel for me and I enjoyed playing the free-spirited Achamma.
 
 
 
 
 Though the film is titled B Tech, my character is an adult who has been working for four years after engineering. She is a Bengaluru-based Malayali woman and thus, her attitude is that of a strong woman. It's another extreme, compared with Kamuki. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Many said that it is a publicity stunt. It wasn’t, and the incident had scared me out of my wits! 
 We were shooting the scene of a strike at Freedom Park in Bengaluru, in which there were more junior artistes, about 300 of them, than the whole crew. The scene involved a lathi charge, in which the policemen also shoot water at the strikers and beat us up with pipes. As the shoot was happening in Bengaluru and there were non-Malayalis as well in the crew, the director Mridul Nair had clearly given instructions in many languages, as to how it is to be executed. It was also mentioned that two people in the police get-up were supposed to be in the scene, and they should not charge onto anyone’s body, as it would be really painful on the wet skin. 
 
 Though the first take was OK, there were some technical glitches and we had to go for a second take. However, some misunderstanding transpired and eight of the junior artistes got into the scene in place of two, and they started beating us up hard. We don’t know whether the beating was deliberate or they didn't understand the instructions well. I lost all my energy -- Imagine a well-built man beating you up and you have to defend yourself from him even as water is being sprayed on to you. 
 
 It was indeed painful and all of us started getting defensive. And the charging continued even after the director called cut! That's when one of the actors pushed away a junior artiste with a tinge of anger and asked ‘What are you doing?’ At that instance our director also got angry, as he had clearly given instructions many times. This further enraged them. 
 Then, while we were packing up amidst rains, we heard a sound that's similar to that of the war cry in films, and saw about 500 people rushing in to attack us! They pushed open the park's gates, and came running towards us. That was the day on which we also had a caravan on the set as we had to change the wet clothes. One of the hairdressers shouted out to the director, Mone, Odikko (Run for your life, son!) and soon, the crowd started pelting stones at us. It continued for a while and the vehicle was damaged but we remained safe. I have no idea what we would have done if they had broken into it. It was quite a fearsome episode, that too when you are away from your State. The crowd was after the director and a few stones fell on him too, but somehow we managed to escape unhurt.
 
 Soon afterwards, police reached the spot and the issue got solved. Because of the tension, though, I fell ill the next day. But that apart, working in this film was a great experience. Mridul settled the issue, apologising to them. We were supposed to shoot the scene again one more time, but couldn’t. So, this particular scene in the film in which we are getting beaten up shows our real pain. Hope it looks great on-screen (laughs).
 
 
 
 Actually, being from a family of musicians, I am under a lot more pressure when I sing in a movie than when I act. I am someone who thought I will turn a singer, and am an accidental actor. As for acting, I just follow the director’s instructions, but when I have to sing in a film, my parents also come into the picture and they will insist that I do it well, so I have to prepare extra hard. They don’t know about acting so it doesn't happen with that part of my work. So, I can’t just sing like that and I will sing only when I can prepare well and do a good job of it. 
 
 
 
 It is not a film in which I can claim to have a lot of screen space but my character gets significant scenes. I play a Malayali nurse, named Saira, who is an independent working woman. She acts as a motivator of G V Prakash’s character. The shoot is over and post production works are on. Nedumudi Venu has also done a leading character in it. 
 
 Rajeev Menon will act out the scenes for you, but will say, ‘Don’t do it just like this. Make it your own.’ We get many variations to try out. G V Prakash came across like Vineeth Sreenivasan -- a very silent and calm person and we didn’t speak much, first. However, once we got to interact more, I guess we got to know each other better. 
 
 
 
 
 There was a break due to film projects and now, I am doing my third year. I have to complete my semester 6 and follow it up with internship and thesis. As of now, I have not taken up any new projects as there is a lot of work to be finished. 
 
 
 
