LUCKNOW: UP Shia Waqf Board chairperson,  , on Sunday claimed that he had received a threat call allegedly on behalf of underworld don Dawood Ibrahim on his recent anti-madrasa statements.
 
 Rizvi who lodged an FIR in the matter under section 507 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) that pertains to criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication, said that an unknown person calling himself an aide of Ibrahim with a Nepal based cellular number had called him late Saturday night.
 
 In his FIR with the Saadatganj police station in Lucknow, Rizvi mentioned that the unknown man on the other side of the phone said that it was because Rizvi is getting Muslims killed because of his statements, that both his and his family's life is under Ibrahim's radar. Rizvi claimed that he had recorded the entire conversation on his mobile phone and was ready to produce it if needed. 
 
 "I got a call at around 10:30 pm on Saturday from a Nepal based number and the man said he was carrying some 'bhai's' message for me. When I asked whom that meant, he clearly said Dawood Ibrahim. He threatened me to apologise to clerics immediately and that I was getting Muslims killed. If I failed to take back my words in the Babri Masjid case and my statements for madrasas, they would end both my life and my family's," said Rizvi.
 
 Rizvi had recently sent a letter to the Prime Minister (PM) and UP chief minister (CM) asking for madrasas and the madrasa boards to be shut down. This he said was needed because according to him madrasas radicalised Indian Muslims into terrorists rather than producing civil servants, doctors or engineers. He had also claimed that funds for madrasas is received from terrorist organisations in Pakistan, Bangladesh and Saudi Arabia.
 
 While Rizvi has got no reply from any of the government officials yet, Muslim clerics, both Shia and Sunni as well as the community had unanimously condemned his statements. Maharashtra unit of Jamiat Ulama-e-Hind has also sent a legal notice to Rizvi recently seeking written apology for his statements along with a damages claim of Rs 20 crore.
 
 But with the alleged call that he got on Saturday night, Rizvi said, "It is now clear after the call that these radical clerics have a long drawn connect with terror organisations and have their wires connected directly to even Dawood Ibrahim." He claimed, "My life is under threat."
 
 
