NAGPUR: The family of a 15-year-old girl, residents of   on   road, was allegedly attacked by at least nine goons, including 21-year-old   Kadu and his father  , on Monday. The victims, who lived next door to the Kadus, had asked Akshay to stop harassing the girl.

 Akshay, who was arrested by   police along with his father and four others, had been stalking and calling up the teenager, a STD X student, for a fortnight trying to force her into a relationship. 
 
 The girl’s father, a mason, sustained two stab injuries, including one in the stomach, inflicted by Akshay and his aides who barged into the residence of the victims. Her mother too sustained numerous injuries. The accused also pelted stones at their residence.
 
 Akshay had also damaged a car and couple of two-wheelers. The car belonged to a cop’s son who had come to support the distressed family who were threatened by Akshay earlier in the day. 
 
 The family, fearing kidnap and murder of their children, are planning to shift out of the locality after selling off their property. They have been residing there since 2002. 
 
 Neighbours said the Kadus and victims had turned foes over Akshay’s harassment. “Since Akshay was calling her up on phone too, she had stopped using it. My son tried to dissuade Akshay but he continued to trouble her. When we took up the matter with the Kadus, Akshay’s father wanted him to apologize. He did so but also shocked us by threatening her,” said the girl’s mother.
 
 The families made another attempt to settle the issue but the girl’s mother said that Akshay was “very aggressive”. “Then, Akshay and his eight friends came on three bikes, barged into our house, dragged my husband out and beat him up. As I intervened, they targeted me too,” she said, adding, “We locked up our children in a room.”
 
 Hudkeshwar police rushed to the spot after receiving an alert from the control room and took Akshay into custody. He, along with his father and four friends, have been booked for rioting, assaulting and other charges. 
 
 
