CHANDIGARH:   has now come to the rescue of   ( ) and is assisting it in improving its efficiency.

 CTU’s fuel efficiency measured in terms of kilometre has been recorded at 3.71km per litre (kmpl), which is lower than the national average of 3.82 kmpl. All the CTU buses use diesel as fuel.
 
 A team of experts from World Bank on Monday held a meeting with the CTU officials to help them in overcoming the shortcomings.
 
 Sharing the details, UT additional secretary, transport, Amit Talwar said the team has submitted a list of measures which will help in improving the fuel and overall efficiency. The team will also organise a workshop for the drivers.
 
 As per the official record, CTU has a fleet of over 500 buses, of which around 60% are over-aged as they have already completed the prescribed life span of eight years. Not only that, the CTU also has the lowest staff to bus ratio of 4 in the country. Despite having the lowest staff/bus ratio, CTU has the highest staff productivity with figure of 54.9 km per bus per day. The number of passengers ferried by CTU is around 539.2 lakh per year, an average of 298.2 passengers per bus per day.
 
 The CTU buses ply on a total of 75 routes with the waiting period for boarding a bus varying from 20 minutes to over 1.5 hour. The low frequency of buses is said to be one of the main reasons behind the residents staying away from public transport.
 
 Due to poor public transport system, residents are forced to use personal vehicles for commuting within the city. The city has the highest density of vehicles in the country. On an average, each family in the city owns more than two cars, leading to parking problems in residential areas. The situation is worse in southern sectors. The high number of vehicles has also made the roads unsafe for cyclists and pedestrians.
 
 In Chandigarh, there has been a rise in the number of deaths in road accidents. Around 750 people died in road accidents in last five years. As many as 150 people were killed last year. In 2016, 151 people were killed, while 129 died in 2015.
 
 
