PUNE: Scientists at the Pune-based National   ( ) have studied hundreds of patients and zeroed in on a formula to predict disease severity and   in dengue-affected patients.

 Key risk factors, according to the study, are age more than 24 years, breathlessness at rest (dyspnea) and decreased attentiveness (altered sensorium). These factors are most likely to precipitate death due to dengue. Treatment delayed by more than five days from the onset of illness can also lead to severity or complications. 
  
  
 NIV is a premier research institute in virology. The scientists studied 369 patients hospitalized for dengue at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) in Delhi.
 
 These findings will help facilitate early detection of dengue patients at risk of death and thus, reduce dengue-related deaths in India, say experts.
 
 “There is a lack of reliable predictors of disease severity and mortality in dengue,” NIV scientist Sumit Bharadwaj told TOI. “The predictors of mortality identified through the study have the potential to pick up cases at risk of death at an early stage, thus increasing the chances of patient survival,” Bharadwaj added.
 
 In the study, late presentation to the hospital (more than five days after disease onset) was identified as an independent predictor of severity, highlighting the importance of timely access to health care.
 
 The study also computed a risk score for prediction of mortality in dengue with good sensitivity (81.8%) and specificity (79.2%).
 
 “The risk score is entirely clinical. Hence, it is easy to apply and can even be used in a primary-level health care setting, where facilities for laboratory testing may not be available,” Bharadwaj said.
 
 During an outbreak-like situation, people that show dengue-like symptoms tend to flock to hospitals in large numbers. “In such a situation, it is imperative to triage patients. These predictors will then come in useful; they will make optimal utilization of health care resources possible,” he said.
 
 “Dengue is a self-limiting disease, but can become life-threatening for some. Identifying these patients early will definitely help them survive,” Prachi Sathe, critical care expert and Ruby Hall Clinic’s chief intensivist, said while commenting on the study.
 
 “This attempt to develop clinical severity score is laudable and should be validated in a larger sample of patients. The study is an attempt to close the many gaps in identification of seriously-ill dengue patients,” she added.
 
 “We will definitely see how we can implement the study’s findings in triaging patients in public hospitals. The findings will surely help boost survival rate” said M S Diggikar, joint director (vector borne disease)., state health department. 
 
 
