VADODARA: The Inter University Centre for Teachers Education (IUCTE) which has come up at   will set up a state-of-the-art   which will be open not only to all students of the university but also from across the country. 

 This educational studio will be equipped with modern equipment for students to prepare documentaries and short films on education sector and also webcast the best practices in education globally. 
 
 This is one of the many decisions that an advisory committee comprising of experts in the field of education from across the country have taken following their meeting at   on Monday. 
 
 After being selected as one of the only two institutes in the country to house IUCTE under the Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission of Teachers and Teaching scheme sanctioned by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas had constituted an advisory committee which includes professor R P Shukla from Banaras Hindu University, professor C Nonghri from  , professor S Sonawane from University of Pune, professor Mohan Menon, director of Disha Globle Trust, professor R S Patel from Gujarat University and Dr Kashyapi Awasthi from National Institute of Educational Planning and Administration (NIEPA), New Delhi.
 
 Under the scheme, MSU will be receiving a total of Rs 21.48 crore as grant for research and training in the field of education of which it has already received nearly Rs 8 crore as first instalment. 
 
 As part of the project, the university will be setting up virtual classrooms, science and computer labs while the existing building will get a complete makeover.
 
 “Best practices in teaching from across the country will be documented both in form of text and electronic format,” said professor R C Patel, dean of   and IUCTE co-ordinator who along with professor Sujata Srivastava, associate co-ordinator had prepared the proposal for the centre.
 
 “A national level competition for preparing short films on the theme of education related to teachers and teaching will also be held and the best short film selected after the competition will be rewarded,” said Patel. 
 
 The advisory committee has also recommended that an international seminar with experts from the education sector be organised in the month of October. 
 
 “Presently, there is lack of awareness regarding teaching education as a profession. To bring conceptual clarity, a workshop will also be organised and the clarity will be further spread in regional languages amongst the schools of education that have been set up by NIEPA as part of the MHRD scheme,” he said. 
 
 
