AHMEDABAD: The ostensible reason for the murder of a young burkha-clad woman,  , was an illicit relationship. Police sources said Reshma was married to  , a resident of   in the Shah-e-Alam area of the city. She was in a relationship with   of Fatehwadi of Juhapura.

 “The relationship had become an impediment in the relationship between Munir and his another girlfriend, named Neetu, who Munir was living with. In an attempt to convince Reshma to meet Neetu and tell her there was no relationship between them, the argument got out of hand. Munir then stabbed Reshma to death at a secluded spot Shastri Bridge on Pirana Road,” said Inspector R K Amin.
 
 Police officials said they had trouble identifying the body. “We circulated a photo of the body on social media and came to know that she was a resident of Millatnagar. We found her husband, who identified her body, and told us that she had left with one Munir on the night of February 8,” added an investigator.
 
 Amin said they got Munir’s address and phone number but could not trace his mobile phone as it was switched off. “The switched off mobile strengthened our suspicions about Munir’s involvement in the murder,” Amin added.
 
 Ashok Yadav, additional commissioner of police - Sector 2, said cops kept watch on Munir’s house at   society in Fatehwadi, where he lived with Neetu.
 
 “When Munir came home late at night, we caught him. He broke down during interrogation and confessed to having killed Reshma. He told us Neetu had grown suspicion about his relationship with Reshma, who had come into touch with him through a common friend named Shanu,” added Yadav.
 
 Police sources said Munir picked up Reshma from her house in an auto and tried to talk her into telling Neetu that they were not in a relationship. Reshma declined fearing a bad name.
 
 “Munir then took her to a secluded place on Pirana Road near Shastri Bridge and tried to threaten her at knife point. When Reshma started crying for help, Munir stabbed her multiple times, killing her on the spot. He then switched off his mobile and went home. We are investigating whether Neetu is involved in the murder,” Amin added.
 
 Police sources said they are yet to recover the knife Munir used to kill Reshma or the auto in which Munir picked up Reshma from her house.
 
 
