THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The cyclone threat, which loomed over Kerala, has ended as the depression over southeast   moved in a north north-westwards direction and weakened into well-marked low-pressure area over Lakshadweep at 5.30pm on Thursday.

 It will further weaken gradually over southeast and adjoining east central Arabian Sea during the next 24 hours and parts of Kerala are likely to get isolated heavy rain amid squally winds. On Thursday,   (KSDMA) and   ( ) had issued a joint alert to fishermen. They had issued a warning, advising fishermen notto venture outinto the sea for 12 hours. At the same time, the no-fishing warning is expected to be withdrawn by Friday.
 
 
 “A decision on withdrawal of the no-fishing warning – which was issued for 12 hours on Thursday– willbetaken based on the IMD’s late evening bulletin,” said KSDMA member secretary Sekhar Kuriakose.
 
 Fishermen from north and south Kerala were advised not to venture into sea (over Lakshadweep and north coast) until 10 pm. The signal-III alert has been hoisted at all north Kerala ports and over Minicoy port, hesaid. Isolatedheavy rain and squally winds(reaching 45km/hour to55km/hour) are likely over Lakshadweep and Kerala during the next 24 hours.
 
 IMDdirector S Sudevan said: “The depression over southeast Arabian Sea moved in a north, north-westward direction and weakened over Lakshadweep and adjoining southeast Arabian Sea. Now, isolated heavy rain is expected. Fishermen have been advised not to venture out into the sea for 12hours.”
 
 IMD and Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Servicesissued a joint bulletin which said that the sea would be rough along Kerala coast, Lakshadweep and adjoining areas during the next 12hours. It also forecasted offshore waves (1.5-2.4m high) from 10.30pm to11.30pm on March15 off the coast from Vizhinjam to Kasaragod. The bulletin saidthat by Friday, the alert islikely tobewithdrawn.
 
 KSDMA has informed district collectors that taluk control rooms need notfunction for 24 hours a day from Thursday and the keys of the relief shelters can behandedback.
 
