JALANDHAR: With chief minister Amarinder Singh and other Congress leaders questioning the conduct of Mehatpur SHO Parminder Singh Bajwa, less than four months back he was awarded the DGP’s commendation disc “on the basis of outstanding policing achievements and in recognition of his service to the public”.

 The order about awarding the commendation disc was issued by Punjab DGP Suresh Arora on January 22. The disc was pinned on Bajwa’s chest by   (rural) SSP Gurpreet Bhullar.
 
 Raising the issue, SAD president Sukhbir Badal on Wednesday took a dig at the Congress government by asking that, “How can an officer who has been given the highest serving award in the Punjab Police a few months back now be held as mentally unstable just because he has registered an FIR against a Congress candidate?” Leader of opposition   also took a dig at the CM and the police brass in his tweet on the commendation disc to Bajwa.
 
 Sources revealed that the state government and police higher-ups were worried as Bajwa had started speaking about the conduct and role of the ruling party’s leaders, he could reveal more, which could push the Congress and police brass into a more embarrassing situation. After the FIR his subsequent utterances have given shock to the government and the ruling Congress.
 
 Congress leaders had questioned Bajwa’s conduct and his stay at an upscale hotel in Jalandhar a night before he registered an FIR against Congress nominee for the Shahkot assembly byelection Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia.
 
 On Monday, while addressing a press conference the CM had revealed that Bajwa was shifted out of the district at the insistence of   MLA   and the FIR appeared to be a fallout of his transfer. The CM also suggested an Opposition conspiracy behind the FIR while stating that the SHO spoke to Khaira and SAD vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema. 
 
 Meanwhile, police officials have been stationed at Bajwa’s residence in Kapurthala to counsel him. His brother has also come from Canada as he was not only under stress but also facing isolation. The sources revealed that at least one DSP and one inspector were there, along with other personnel, and they were trying to “counsel” him. He is not being left alone, due to which he is being discouraged from speaking to mediapersons.
 
 
 
 Inspector Parminder Singh Bajwa has also countered the assertions of Jalandhar (rural) police officers that he was “absent” from his duty. While he had earlier told the media on Monday that he was asked to proceed on leave for another five days, before he went incommunicado on Wednesday, he reiterated that his leave was sanctioned by his superiors. “How can they call me absent when I had entered my “rawaangi” (entry about leaving the police station) in the roznamacha (daily diary report) at the police station,” he claimed while speaking to TOI. However, Shahkot deputy superintendent of police (DSP) on Tuesday had told TOI that Bajwa was “absent.” 
 
 
