

 Mauritius started hosting an annual Marathi theatre festival for its Marathi speaking community, more than 40 years ago. But it is only on rare occasion that Mauritian theatre artistes showcase their talent in Maharashtra. Recently, on a statewide tour staging their Marathi play 
 , a group of Mauritian artistes spoke to us about theatre in their country and their quest to keep Marathi culture alive.
 
  “In 1977, a Marathi theatre festival began in Mauritius. Since then, every year around 15 new Marathi plays are staged there. But this the first time that we have arranged for a play to tour Maharashtra. Ha Jawai is the winner of last year’s Marathi theatre Festival,” said  , the chairman of  , that operates under their Ministry of Arts and Culture. Incidentally, this tour also marks the celebration of Mauritius’ 50th year of independence.
 
  
 
  Touring Maharashtra for two weeks, the team of seven staged their play in Pune, Dombivali, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Panhalgad and Vashi. “Maharashtra being the motherland of Marathi, it has been a great experience to be able to stage our play for audiences here,” shares  , the lead artiste. At the same time, he adds that showcasing their acting skills in front of a Maharashtrian audience was challenging.
 
  “A majority of our audiences back home speak Creole or French. So we had to work hard and concentrate on our accents to perform here,” he informs. Spelling out the other differences in theatre that he observed during his tour, Yashwant says, “We do not have sound and light technicians. It is handled by us as a team. But here, you have specialised people to handle these things. Also, the seating capacity in the auditoriums here is higher, so artistes have to face a larger audience,” he says.
 
  
 
 
  In an earlier report, Pune Times had explored how Mauritian students in Pune celebrate Gudi Padwa every year. And it does not stop there. The country has been doing a lot more to preserve Marathi culture. “We celebrate all the Marathi festivals in Mauritius. From   to Maharashtra Divas and Ganpati festival – we are keeping all the traditions alive. Besides the theatre festival we also have a dance drama, Dashavtar,” says Arjoon, adding that thanks to the co-operation they received for this tour, they are keen to organise more such collaborations with Maharashtra in the future.
 
 
  
 
 
  While multiple shows of a single play or the revival of classics is common in Maharashtra, performances are seldom repeated in Mauritius. Plays from the Marathi festival are not staged commercially after the festival. This means that every year, around 15 new plays are staged. “There are no repeat performances. Each year, the festival has new plays being staged,” says Arjoon.
 
  
 
  
 
 “We do not have a Mauritian film industry. But the government encourages other film industries to shoot in Mauritius owing to its beauty. Theatre festivals are a big thing at home. We have festivals for 10 
 different spoken languages in the country.”
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
