LUDHIANA: City businessmen are up in arms against the E-way bill, which will start from February 1. Under this system, businessmen will have to upload details of every sales bill above Rs 50,000 for goods which are to be transported beyond a distance of 10 kilometers. 

 If the bill is not uploaded before transportation, they will be liable to 200% penalty. Businessmen have described the move as “anti-industry” and demanded that the threshold limit of the E-Way bill be enhanced from Rs 50,000 to at least Rs 1,00,000 and that it is not made applicable on inter-district transactions. Businessmen warned that the system, if it is not changed, would have an adverse effect on trade and industry.
 
 Dinesh Kalra, president,   said, “We are not against the E-way bill but it is totally unacceptable in its present form. Exemption limit under the E-way bill has been fixed at only Rs 50,000, which is unjustified. The   council should reconsider the decision. Considering inflation, exemption should be enhanced to at least Rs 1,00,000 or else things will become very difficult for micro and small industry. 
 
 According to  , a cycle parts manufacturer, the E-way bill system is not easy to follow, especially for small-scale manufacturers and suppliers. Instead of making it compulsory for a distance of more than 10 kilometers, the government should have exempted inter-city movement, he said, adding that since local tax authorities have checkposts and nakas everywhere, there is no need to make the e-way bill mandatory. 
 
 According to  , president,  , “The E-way system is very complex. High rates of penalties and non-availability of options to correct mistakes will make the E-Way bill system a very risky affair for all stakeholders, especially transporters. We are ready to cooperate with the government and taxation authorities in every way but the system should be user-friendly.” 
 
 In October 2017, attempts of the Union government to introduce the E-Way bill system were scuttled because of the furore it evoked. Besides the sale invoice, the e-way system includes rejection, sale return and it is mandatory to generate e-way bill for these transactions as well if they are above Rs 50,000. 
 
 What is E-Way bill
 
 The E-way system, which a few states are already following, will be implemented across the nation for movement of goods from one state to the other from February 1. The GST council has fixed June 1, 2018 as the deadline for states to implement the E-Way bill for intra-state movement. Under the e-way bill system, businessmen will have to upload details of every sales bill above Rs 50,000 for goods which are to be transported beyond a distance of 10 kilometers. Without uploading the bill before transportation, they will be liable to pay 200% penalty on GST value of the invoice. 
 
 
