BHUBANESWAR: After his party's thumping victory in the recently-concluded  ,   and chief minister   is scheduled to address a   at Barpali on Monday to express his gratitude to the voters. 

 The ruling party has made elaborate arrangements for the programme called 'Juhar Bhet'. The chief minister is also likely to lay the foundation of some development projects for Bijepur during his visit. 
 
 On February 28, BJD candidate Rita Sahu won the much-publicized byelection by more than 41,000 votes.
 
 Senior leaders of the party, who played a crucial role in BJD's victory in Bijepur, have been camping in the western Odisha constituency to make the thanks giving ceremony a grand success. The ruling dispensation plans to mobilize party workers from every panchayat of the constituency.
 
 "When Naveen babu came here for campaigning for our candidate (Rita Sahu), the opposition parties had said the chief minister would forget Bijepur after the byelection. We never forget our promises," said BJD vice-president Prasanna Acharya. 
 
 He added, "The CM had assured to personally monitor the development process at Bijepur for which people of Bijepur reposed their faith in BJD. He would express his gratitude to the people."
 
 Political analysts said the programme perhaps aims to carry on the momentum which the ruling party has gained after the Bijepur victory ahead of the general and assembly elections due in 2019. 
 
 The   and BJP criticized Naveen's scheduled visit to Bijepur. Hitting out at the chief minister over 'lack' of development in Bijepur, senior Congress leader Niranjan Patnaik said the aim of the visit is to gain political mileage.
 
 BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma also slammed the chief minister for visiting Bijepur and asked as to how are the people of Bijepur going to benefit from such a programme. 
 
 Naveen, during his visit, would also inaugurate the Sambalpur-Rourkela stretch of the Biju Expressway near Jharsuguda. The Rs 3,000 crore project from Rourkela to Kotpada in Koraput will connect western Odisha with southern regions.
 
 
