CHANDIGARH: The   in its orders in 2017 had asked the government to ensure error-free question papers, but to no avail. State Council for Educational Research and Training ( ) had put five wrong questions in the question paper for the prestigious National Talent Search Examination’s ( ) stage one, which is also known as State Level Talent Search Examination (STSE). The state level exam was conducted on November 5, 2017

 In the answer keys uploaded on January 4, 2018, by SCERT on its website, it has made up for its mistake by offering five grace marks to all students for the wrong questions in the paper. However, this has not gone down well with the parents and they have written to the SCERT, NCERT, Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD) minister  , and Prime Minister  , stating that SCERT’s negligence has put many meritorious students in disadvantageous position, going by the limited seats and tough competition. A parent has also served a legal notice to them.
 
 In a decision in July, 2017, in reference to similar errors in JEE question paper by IIT, the Supreme Court had issued a warning to the IIT authorities that such “kinds of errors in printing and framing of questions should not happen again”. It had even asked the Centre to evolve a mechanism to prevent errors in exam papers.
 
 As can per the answer key of STSE 2017, “there is abnormally high score given to all questions,” parents have stated in their emails sent to higher authorities. In the Mental Ability test (MAT) there were 50 questions of 50 marks and in this section there were 2 questions for which score was given to all candidates. In Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) section there were 100 questions of 100 marks out of which three questions were wrong. While in most questions there was no correct answer, in others there were multiple correct answers. Similar questions in question papers set in Hindi were correct from its counterparts in English.
 
 In one of the mails sent, a parent requesting anonymity had stated, “Since it is mistake on your (SCERT) part, you should judiciously compensate the students, while ensuring no injustice is done to anyone, especially those students who tried their best to solve these questions. Various possible remedies should have been explored rather than resorting to blanket award of the grace marks. One feasible alternative remedy could have been to increase the seats this year to qualify more students from Stage 1 to participate in Stage 2. For example, if normally only 10 students are selected, this time 20 students should be selected/qualified from the UT pool and allowed to sit for the Stage II exams.”
 
 At present only eight or nine students from STSE are selected for NTSE out of the thousands who sit for the exam.
 
 In a legal notice sent by another parent through her advocate, a demand has been made for legal action against persons responsible for the errors. “Erroneous questions have become a trend in competitive exams in the past few years, be it any exam. This is mainly because no one is being held responsible for these errors. The people preparing question papers are so qualified then why are such errors surfacing. We have asked for a proper inquiry to ascertain as to how so many errors crept into the question papers and after fixing the responsibility, penal action must be taken against such irresponsible persons. They should be blacklisted and disqualified from being allowed to set any question paper in any field,” said advocate Pankaj Chandgothia, who sent the legal notice on January 7. Director, SCERT remained unavailabel for comments despter repeated attempt to be contacted. 
 
 
