By Raj Bowen

 In meeting after meeting with CEOs and business leaders, one cannot help but be impressed with the strong drive for getting things done. We’ve all grown up admiring the corporate labels of ‘aggression’, ‘hard-driven’, ‘fire in the belly’ and ‘failure is not an option’. These labels dovetail into a strong leadership competency called results-orientation. Logically, it makes so much sense — After all, the function of business is business! 
 
 Having said that, globally, almost like it is for biological species, some companies adapt and flourish, some linger around longer and slowly fade away from their original shape and form, and many fall with a thud. Is it merely the survival of the fittest or something else? Till a few years ago, survival and growth were largely reflected on the balance sheet — the financial ratios said it all. Private equity firms dived deep into this box to evaluate the current health and future viability of business as part of the due diligence for investment decisions. Very quietly, and sometimes so quietly that the threat can go unnoticed as ‘something in the future’, the game has changed — so much so that the impact cannot be arrested or curtailed. It can only be adapted to, or else perish. It’s not too distant for us to remember that Kodak would have been a profitable industry leader, the Readers Digest was a household necessity, Indians grew into an HMT watch. Was it only about competition and technology as the disruptors? On the surface, yes! But dig deeper and the story is different.
 
 Cutting through the clutter and picking up a coin that has ‘enabler’ printed on one side and ‘killer’ on the other, we find the new growth currency called ‘engagement’. One still wonders how many business meetings of corporate leaders has   as one of the key agenda pieces. Of course, this does surface, more often than not, at annual conferences, strategy off-sites, etc. But business plans and review meetings are yet to find mind-share for that one aspect that could either be the vital enabler or the silent killer that they are missing.
 
 If resistance to change is the single-biggest blind spot of business, it manifests here so very strongly. There is so much research that continues to shout at us in the face about how employee engagement is no longer about surveys, score improvements and cascade workshops. It is the one big thing the corporate leaders must individually and collectively address if their business plans need to have any serious legitimacy. Gary Hamel seemed ahead of the curve when he wrote in 2009, ‘Today, no leader can afford to be indifferent to the challenge of engaging employees in the work of creating the future. Engagement may have been optional in the past, but it’s pretty much the whole game today.’ So, here’s a quick look at realities that confront us:
 
 Conventional engagement surveys are missing the mark if respondents are categorised as being engaged or not — without capturing how their engagement varies in different situations or over time
 
 If employees don’t receive meaningful feedback on their engagement situation the assessment itself remains disengaging
 
 Individuals differ greatly in their engagement killers and drivers — each one is a unique combination of the underlying motives
 
 Almost all of us have more or less disengaging work: Tasks where we use less than 50% of potential and deliver 25-50% lower compared with what we achieve on the engaging components of the same work week
 
 Both engagement and disengagement are contagious. It takes just a few employees to infect the larger group
 
 Most performance   cater to providing similar rewards for achievement — another nail in engagement’s coffin
 
 A demographically different and diverse workforce will not align with cookie-cutter talent practices
 
 The good news is that engaged employees are showing proven correlations with discretionary effort, innovation, customer centricity, quality,  ,  , productivity, retention, revenues and profitability 
 
 The even better news is that contemporary talent-engagement models, which have cracked this code, are now available. However, this will demand business and HR leaders to take a hard and close look at their current understanding and practice of building employee engagement, and be open to changing track completely, if needed. Yes, if there is one area that warrants throwing out the baby with the bathwater, this is it!The author is managing partner , EMA Decision 
 
 Dynamics. Views are personal
 
 
