GURUGRAM: The outcome of the first Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) board   on Wednesday didn’t quite match up to the landmark occasion. The announcement that stood out was actually a deferment of the city’s most awaited  . The city bus service will not roll out this summer and is likely to be launched neared autumn instead. Chief minister Manohar Lal   announced a new date: August 15.

 Expectations from the first GMDA meeting were high, mainly around the bus service and   projects for Gurugram, which is battling a chronic congestion problem because of its heavy dependence on cars. But there was nothing on metro’s proposed extensions from Huda City Centre to the railway station, and further to  . 
 
 Those hoping the first GMDA meeting would provide a final shape to the establishment of a medical college and a   in Sector 67 were also left disappointed as the CM, who chaired the meeting, made no mention of these. 
 
 And if the bus service does roll out in August, it will be without air-conditioned buses. “The city bus service is likely to be operational by August 15 this year. Initially, there will be around 200 buses that will be rolled out. These will be non-AC buses,” Khattar said.
 
 Officials said all four bus manufacturers in the country had expressed their inability to provide low-floor buses before August and sought a year’s time for low-floor AC buses, which would mean the first lot of air-conditioned carriages will hit the road only in 2019. 
 
 Asked about the metro projects, GMDA CEO V Umashankar said, “We felt since the metro is not directly under GMDA but is under HMRTC (Haryana Mass Rapid Transport Corporation), it would be the agency that will finalise the route.” 
 
 Gurugram MP Rao Inderjit Singh, who also attended the meeting, said the Khattar government should connect the Rapid Metro network with the proposed metro route to the railway station. “Rapid Metro is running into losses and there is a need to connect it with the new metro route that is being planned, otherwise it will shut shop. The authorities need to plan it in such a way that the line coming from Dwarka or Gurugram railway station is be connected to Rapid Metro so that it becomes viable,” he said.
 
 He also sharply criticized the government for failing to provide even a single multi-level parking in the city. “For the past 10 years, I have been hearing that multi-level parking will be developed but there has been no forward movement. There has been no development as far as healthcare and transport is concerned.”
 
 The Residents Advisory Council (RAC), which is to advise and provide guidance to the GMDA, is yet to be formed. Nine more standing committees are yet to take shape as well. The chief minister said these committees will be formed soon.
 
 
