THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader   said that   government had distanced itself from the common man over the past two years. He claimed that Keralites had to put up with an arrogant chief minister who always kept away from his people and that the government machinery too adopted his stand-offish attitude. 

 
 
 People saw the rough side of the chief minister and his government when they cried out for help during Ockhi disaster, when students and parents were struggling to meet the demands of self-financing managements and when people were campaigning against their loss of property due to the unscientific acquisition of land in the name of national highways.
 
 "When the government is celebrating its second anniversary, then the chief minister's performance should be evaluated first. He oversees the home department and law and order deteriorated under his rule. Nine custodial deaths have been reported in the state in two years which shows how safe police stations have become for people," said   in an article written on the second anniversary of the government.
 
 He claimed that several suicides were reported from various parts due to police torture. Who should be made responsible for this? If the chief minister himself is not able to put an end to this, from where will people get justice? The police force has been highly politicised under LDF rule such that they have started raising slogans like trade unions at their meetings, he alleged.
 
 He pointed to the murder of the Latvian tourist in Kovalam to illustrate how unsafe Kerala had become under Pinarayi Vijayan's leadership. The state has witnessed an unforeseen surge in political killings, 25 of them happened in the past two years. Of this, 12 were in Kannur, he added.
 
 The law-and-order situation has deteriorated so much that governor sought an explanation from the chief minister four times in the past two years, said Chennithala, adding that government failed to launch at least one major development project in this period
 
 Their lacklustre behaviour has hit the progress of major projects like Vizhinjam port, Kannur airport and   and even the traditional industrial sector. Most of the well-received welfare schemes initiated by the previous   government has stopped or sabotaged by the present government. The financial situation is another grave concern, said Chennithala.
 
