PATNA: Three alleged contract killers were   from Bindtoli under the Digha police station area in the city on Monday night. Police alleged they were to be paid Rs1 lakh for killing trader Ram Bacchan Rai (45), who was shot dead near his construction material shop at Digha Hat on March 10. 

 The three were identified as Ravi Dom, Mahesh Yadav and Arjun Ram. Police also recovered two country-made pistols, four live cartridges and three cellphones from their possession. 
 
 An FIR was lodged against Sunny Rai (25),   (22), Lallu Rai (40) and a juvenile with the Digha police station by the deceased’s elder brother Tarkeshwar Rai. While Sunny, Vikash and Lallu are still at large, the juvenile was arrested a couple of days after the murder.
 
 Police claimed Ravi, during interrogation, said Sunny had promised them to pay Rs1 lakh after killing Rai. “Sunny had paid them a token amount and promised to pay the rest of money after the murder. The police investigation revealed that Rai had thrashed Sunny and some others a few days back and they hatched a conspiracy to get the trader eliminated,” a police officer said.
 
 Police said the three were named accused in six cases of dacoity and loot, including two each in   and Dhanarua and one each in Sultanganj and Bhagwanganj police stations in the district.
 
 Two held with stolen jewellery, rice: One   Paswan was arrested from Salimpur and a woman from Khusrupur on Monday night. The police recovered Rs1.45 lakh, 16 ornaments of gold and silver, five sacks filled with rice and 25 empty sacks from their possession. While rice and sacks were recovered from Dinanath’s possession, the cash and valuables were seized from the woman’s residence. Police said the woman is wife of Ashok Kumar Sao, who is accused in several dacoity cases and is lodged in Muzaffarpur jail. Police said 200 sacks of rice were stolen from a shop at Bakhtiyarpur market. Dinanath was involved in the case. On his tip-off, raids were conducted at Khusrupur. Police said the recovered ornaments and cash were stolen after Holi from several houses under the Salimpur, Athmalgola and Bakhtiyarpur police station area.
 
 
