The exhaustive syllabus of   for   exam aims at giving the students a sneak peek into the human psyche and understand their behaviour in various surroundings.

 The paper is set to test your applied knowledge. Therefore, it is suggested that the students should evolve their own understanding of subject and apply it in the exam. The textbook prescribed by   is quite comprehensive and there is no need to refer to any other source.
 
 Although the content of the paper is asked from the syllabus, the way of questioning tends to get interpretative. So, it becomes necessary for you to have a thorough knowledge of the course.
 
 Read you textbook cover to cover for a better judgement of MCQs and study chapter numbers four and six for the long answer-type questions. Answers to questions based on psychological reasoning from chapter II and VII need to be written in bullet points and should have relevant examples. The descriptive type questions should be elaborated on and you can use your creativity.
 
 While solving the paper, you can write answers in the order you are comfortable with. But I suggest you should follow the sequence because the questions are set in an increasing level of difficulty.
 
 You should also substantiate your answers with flow charts, labelled diagrams and examples. This not only enhances the paper presentation, but also makes it easier for the examiner to check.
 
 Students often lose track of time while writing. For this, you must be careful with the length of your answer with respect to the marks. Avoid unnecessary elaborating or repeating of points.
 
 The writer is a teacher a  
 
 Paper snapshot
 
 Exam: Psychology (HSC)
 
 Exam date: March 10
 
 Duration: 3 hours
 
 Theory marks on paper: 80
 
 Expert tips
 
 Presentation of the paper is very important. Highlight the important points and relate your answers with examples
 
 Follow the instructions mentioned on question paper
 
 Remember, marks are awarded on the content and not the length of your paper. Solve wisely
 
 Last-minute revision
 
 Solve previous years’ question papers
 
 Read the summaries as this will help you in giving a quick insight of the chapter
 
 Do not read or learn anything new a day before the exam
 
 
