BENGALURU: A full-fledged suburban rail system for Bengaluru, similar to the one in Mumbai, is likely to be a reality in three years. Giving a major push to the long-pending project, the state cabinet on Wednesday decided to release its share of funds for the 44-km suburban rail network.

 Law minister T B   said the project, which involves running 56 trains with 116 rail services, is estimated to cost Rs 10,949 crore. “The state government will release Rs 349 crore for the first phase, which will need a total amount of Rs 1,670 crore,” he said. 
 
 The plan is to have a rail network between Bengaluru and Mandya, Bengaluru and Yeshwantpur, Yeshwantpur and Tumakuru, Yeshwantpur and Yelahanka, Yelahanka and Byappanahalli, Yelahanka and Chikkaballapur, Yelahanka and Doddaballapur, Bengaluru and   and Kunigal and Soladevanahalli.
 
 Though the government had decided to take up the project last year, it did not take off as Karnataka was rankled by the cost-sharing mechanism under the National Suburban Rail Policy released by the Centre. 
 
 As per the policy, the state and the railways were to share 20 per cent each and the remaining 60 per cent was to be arranged through the special purpose vehicle (SPV) with the state acting as the guarantor for the loan. While the state was batting for a 50:50 partnership, the railways was firm that it will not provide any more contribution.
 
 “Since we have been made the guarantor, the state will end up bearing 80 per cent of the cost. Still we decided to go ahead with the project considering its significance to decongest Bengaluru,” Jayachandra said.
 
 The first report that recommended a suburban rail project for the city was prepared in 1983. Since then eight detailed project reports had been prepared and the latest was in 2015 which was again updated in 2017 by the directorate of urban land transport (DULT), an arm of the state government. In addition to these seven reports, several studies were commissioned and reports prepared on the city's transport system.
 
 90 smart signals 
 
 The cabinet approved a proposal to install 90 smart signals in the   (CBD). The government has proposed to set up the adaptive road traffic signal system or sensor-based signals that can adjust the duration of red and green lights at junctions, depending on the density of vehicles at 355 junctions at a cost of Rs 85 crore. The city has nearly 400 traffic signals.
 
 Jayachandra said adaptive traffic signals are more effective compared to traditional ones, which have pre-programmed timings, and it will help reduce shortage of manpower.
 
 
