Nagpur: Maintaining that the demands of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer (LGTBQ) community are just and needed to be looked into with empathy, MLA from north Nagpur Milind Mane, a doctor by profession, on Thursday said that he would take up the issue of their rights with the state government as early as possible.

 Speaking at a talk show organized perhaps for the first time in Maharashtra, organized by Saarthi Trust at a city hotel, Mane said, “Transgender persons have to face a lot of discrimination, even while visiting toilets or getting medical care.   people are part of our society and they should have the same opportunity to exercise their rights as everyone does.”
 
 After the Supreme Court ruled in favour of National Legal Services Authority (NLSA), guidelines have been issued to protect the basic right of transgender persons. According to the guidelines, separate toilets should to be constructed by local authorities for transgenders and separate wards allocated in government hospitals.
 
 Mane assured that he will use his discretionary funds to build toilets for transgenders in his assembly constituency. “I will also raise the demand with the administration for separate wards for transgenders in government hospitals,” he said.
 
 The legislator said he supported the LGBTQ’s demand to abolish Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, saying it infringes on their rights of sexual preferences.
 
 Nikunj Joshi, chief executive officer of the trust, said the situation for his community in the city is better now than it was 12 years ago. “People at the time were fearful of being ousted as a homosexual because, if you’re a man or a woman, it was assumed that you are heterosexual. Now, looking at the support coming from within the community, homosexuals are less afraid to come out with their orientation,” he said.
 
 However, it will be long before the society accepts LGBTQs, according to Joshi. “Unless there is a change in the legal system with regards to our community, the society will be reluctant to accept us. There is also a critical need to introduce sex education in schools so that children are aware of various sexual preferences,” he said.
 
 The trust has organized ‘Orange City LGBT Pride March’ at Samvidhan Chowk at 3pm on Saturday. According to Joshi, it will be the largest pride march in Vidarbha. College students and representatives of various NGOs were present at the talk show.
 
 (With inputs from Monika Pande)
 
 
