LUDHIANA: Two months after the   was made mandatory for out-of-state sale-purchase   above Rs 50,000, from Friday the system will be applicable for intra-state transactions within   as well. Meanwhile, businessmen are worried that this would make doing business within the state more complex, as imposing the e-way bill on transactions within the state will put further load on the online system of bill generation, making it more prone to develop frequent snags.

 According to  , president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organizations (Fico): “Mandatory implementation of the e-way bill on intra-state transactions from tomorrow (Friday) will have very serious implications. Firstly, small businessmen are neither trained nor technically equipped to easily adapt to the e-way bill system. On the other hand, due to very low exemption limit of merely Rs 50,000, traders and industrialists will be at the receiving end, as this is a very small amount, and businessmen will have to generate e-way bills on every transaction above the exemption limit. It is not a wise decision on the part of both state and central governments to impose the e-way bill on intra-state transactions. We want the governments to understand the ground reality and immediately roll back the decision.”
 
 According to Fico general secretary  : “Industry has not got over the complexities of GST, and now imposing the e-way billing system on local transactions will only create more complications for business dealings within the city and state. They should have at least spared intra-city transactions from e-way billing. Moreover, earlier there was an exemption based on distance in e-way billing, but now that exemption has also been withdrawn. Even if we are going to sell products to a factory located next door, we will have to generate an e-way bill. The government should give us some time to adapt to this system, and it should be deferred until next year at least.”
 
 
 
 
 Under the e-way bill system, businessmen will have to upload details of every sale involving goods valued above Rs 50,000. From 1 April, the system has been made mandatory for the movement of goods from one state to another, and some states have already implemented the e-way system for intra-state transactions. In Punjab, the intra-state e-way bill will come into effect from 1 June. Without uploading the bill before transportation, the seller will be liable to pay 200% penalty on the GST value of the invoice.
 
 
