The latest episode of   begins with   getting a call from  , who asks her to meet him once. She agrees and says that he is going to be put behind bars for life. 

 On the other hand, Neil gets a call from Ballu who tells him that he is willing to produce evidence against Vidyut. Neil tells Avni of the same and says that Vidyut's schemes would be put to rest once he has laid his hands on the evidence.
 
 The scene shifts, Avni visits Vidyut and he puts up a play for her to watch. In the play, staged by his men, the entire scene of the scuffle is played out in which Neela lost her life. She sees how Neela got shot as she tried to save Neil from the bullet that was issued from Prakash's gun. The actors leave.
 
 Vidyut says that Prakash should get punished for Neela's death. When Avni is not convinced with his version of the story, he plays a videotape on screen. In the video, Vidyut is seen injecting some drugs into Prakash. He then puts a gun in the latter's hand and asks him to shoot at Neil. Neela, on seeing this, pushes Neil away and gets shot in her back. Avni breaks down on seeing this.
 
 Vidyut says that he didn't want to hurt Neela and that he just wanted to kill Neil. He says that he is willing to come clean about this to the police but since the drugs would not be found in Prakash's blood anymore, he would be arrested. This will just add to her woes. He takes her to a decorated room and asks her to marry him.
 
 Vidyut tells her that if he goes to jail then he will take Prakash with him. He threatens to destroy her family if he refuses to marry him. Avni runs away from the scene leaving Vidyut drowning in the pool of his misery. While on the run, she falters and falls on the road.
 
 Back at home, Shweta and Bebe worry about Avni as they are not able to find her. When Avni returns home everyone is shocked to see her in a wounded state. She lies and tells them that there was a storm.
 
  
 Vidyut is seen planning his honeymoon with Avni and realizes that Ballu is not in attendance.
 
 Avni worries about how to prove Prakash's innocence. Keep watching this space to know how Avni will resolve this dilemma.
 
