GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has penalised two developers —   and   — and three individual plot owners for violation of the   ( ) and ministry of environment and forest and climate change (MoEFCC) guidelines on construction sites. 

 After an inspection of construction sites in the first week of December, the department imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on Tata Housing for violations at their Primanti project in Sector 72. Similarly, Signature Builders was slapped with a fine of Rs 50,000 for violations at their affordable housing project in Sector 93. Two plot owners in Greenwood society and one in Suncity were fined Rs 10,000 each. 
 
 “This is the first time that the department has imposed and collected penalty for violation of construction guidelines. We are going to take strict action over non-implementation of NGT guidelines,” said district town planner (DTP) RS Batth, adding that they would conduct random checks at construction sites. The department would also act on individual complaints, he added. 
 
 Batth said the department had received a complaint against Tata Housing before they conducted a site inspection. “During inspection, it was found that the construction site was not covered and the construction material was kept in the open, which violate directions of the tribunal. There was no sprinkling of water to check the dust, too.” He said similar violations were found at the construction site of Signature Builders and the plot owners, adding that all the developers had paid the penalty and promised to follow the guidelines. 
 
 However, a spokesperson for Tata Housing said, “We have not undertaken any activities in contravention of NGT orders and have accordingly replied to DTCP.” A spokesperson for Signature Builders also claimed that all guidelines were being followed. “Construction is going on at multiple construction sites in Gurgaon and we have been following all the guidelines,” said the spokesperson, adding that the company was concerned about the environment.
 
 
