KOZHIKODE: The Senior National   Championship for Men and Women that gets underway here on Wednesday is likely to witness a generation shift in the game. Veterans Tom Joseph, Mohan Ukkra Pandian and Naveen Raja Jacob have all made way for an array of talented youngsters who are keen to make their presence felt in the 66th edition of the tournament.

 
 Kerala skipper   feels that the week-long tournament will offer a sneak-peek into the future of volleyball in the country. “Our next generation players are ready for bigger events. Not just Kerala, every other team participating here are coming up with young players. We are confident and raring to go,” said Jerome.
 
 Twenty-eight teams in the men’s category and 26 teams in the women’s category will be vying for glory at two venues, VK Krishna Menon Indoor Stadium and Swapna Nagari Indoor Stadium. Top six teams from the first two groups, A and B, will make it to the quarterfinals after the group stage. Other two teams will qualify for the knockout stage after playing a second-round play-off stage.
 
 Karnataka, who did not participate in the 65th edition of the event in Chennai due to their state volleyball body’s differences with Volleyball Federation of India (VFI), will be the team under the spotlight in the men’s division. Karnataka Volleyball Association secretary K Nandakumar said that they have sent two strong teams for the championship. “Both our men’s and women’s sides are capable of making a mark in the event. They have been playing well and I hope they will give their best,” Nandakumar told TOI from Bengaluru.
 
 Tamil Nadu, on the other hand, will be depending on their Indian Overseas Bank player GR Vaishnav to avenge their loss in the last championship’s final against Kerala in Chennai. Railways, Services and Punjab are the other three major teams in the men’s division eyeing a shot at the title.
 
 Defending champions Kerala men and last-year’s runners-up Kerala women might not run into tough opponents at the group stage but will have to break a lot of sweat to go the distance in the knockout stages. In the men’s division, Kerala will be wary of Punjab, Railways and Tamil Nadu while in the women’s section Maharashtra and defending champions Railways would pose major threat for the hosts’ title aspirations.
 
 Kerala men will start their campaign against Rajasthan at VK Krishna Menon Indoor Stadium on Wednesday. Their men’s coach K Abdul Nazer, who was the coach when Kerala lifted the 65th national title in Chennai in 2016, sounded optimistic after a two-week preparatory camp. “We have a good side and everyone in the squad is fit and fine. We have a smart captain in Jerome and I hope we will play to our best in front of our home crowd,” Nazer said.
 
 Though Kerala girls have always made their presence felt in national tournaments, Railways have been their eternal nemesis. But Kerala coach   believes that his girls have the potential to change the script this time around. “Beating Railways is tough but not impossible. I think Railways side has a sort of psychological advantage over our girls when they meet us in bigger tournaments. We are hoping to sort out that issue,” Sunny said. Kerala girls will begin their campaign against Telangana on Wednesday.
 
 Hosting the national championship after a 16-year hiatus, Kozhikode is bracing itself for a smash-hit week ahead.
 
