LUDHIANA: Residents of Modern Flats Residential Welfare Society ( ) in Model Town Extension Part 1 on Dugri Road have complained against encroachments on prime land of   (LIT). They rued that due to these illegally constructed quarters adjoining their flats, it has become a big nuisance as theft incidents have increased in the area, and claimed that despite several requests, authorities were not removing the encroachments. However, LIT officials pleaded helplessness, saying they had demanded a police force to conduct a demolition drive in the area.

 MFRWS secretary Ranjit Singh said that on LIT’s prime land, illegal quarters have come up where migrant labourers reside, and those who have illegally occupied the land are collecting rent from labourers. He said residents who live in flats feel unsafe due to these encroachments, because some suspicious people were residing in the quarters, and complained that LIT did not remove the illegal quarters from the land, valued at Rs 100 crore.
 
 MFRWS joint secretary Sumit Singh said as per the original plans, the area reserved for 42 flats was encompassed in a separate module, and was given an independent approach from Shakti Enclave side, whereas the rest of the scheme (school, commercial complex, etc) was provided an approach from the other side, so that residents in flats do not face problems. He said: “Sadly, a 30-feet wide concrete road access was given to illegal occupants in quarters from the flats side, due to which the area under flats has become a thoroughfare, causing nuisance for residents.”
 
 LIT officials claimed they had developed this scheme in 1999 after acquiring a piece of land, and flats were constructed in 0.57 acres of land. The total area is 3.03 acres, of which 1.02 acres of land was earmarked for the construction of a primary school. On this school site, illegal quarters have come up. LIT sub-divisional officer   said: “We have demanded police force twice, because without police assistance, we cannot remove the encroachments. We had tried once but there was resistance, so we had to drop the idea then.” He further shared that land was kept for construction of a school, but after taking its possession, they can also construct more flats.
 
 
