SURAT:  , mostly patients and employees of an eye hospital and staff of an electronics showroom, were rescued after surging smoke engulfed a three-storey commercial building due to a major fire in its basement parking at Tadwadi in Adajan here on Saturday morning. 

 Over 25 two-wheelers parked in the basement of the building were gutted in the fire at the complex, which houses Eye- Q Desai Superspeciality Eye Hospital and   showroom on the ground floor. 
 
 Fire department sources said five fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Around 25 people from the hospital and a few from the electronics showroom were rescued. Three patients who had fallen unconscious after inhaling toxic smoke were rushed to private hospitals. 
 
 Chief fire officer (CFO) S K   told TOI, “Actually, the source of fire ignition was in the basement of the building. The fire broke out due to a short circuit in the electricity meter box in the basement. More than 25 vehicles were gutted. Fumes and smoke engulfed the entire building, giving an impression of a major fire.” 
 
 Acharya added, “Our fire teams were divided into two groups for rescue and controlling the fire in the basement. More than 30 people were rescued from the hospital premises, mostly patients and hospital staff. We had also called five 108 ambulances and the rescued patients and those who had fallen unconscious were shifted to private hospitals.”
 
 Asked whether the building had fire safety equipment and fire NOC, Acharya said, “As per the building norms, structures above 15 metres have to take the no objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department. But, this building in question is below 15 metres and does not require any NOC. However, since the building houses hospital and electronic showroom, I personally believe that the hospital authorities must go for NOC and perform periodic checks of fire equipment.”
 
 Raju Patel, a shop owner next to the building, said, “I could see only smoke in the entire building. So, we thought a major fire had erupted in the building. People were rushing out of the complex and we rushed to help them. The staff and visitors in the electronic showroom came out as soon as they saw the smoke, but those in the hospital were unaware.” 
 
 Ritesh Babaria, who had visited the eye hospital, said, “We could neither use the elevator or the staircase. We were trapped on the third floor. But then fire-fighters told us to come down as the fire was in the basement parking. It was very difficult to come out from the building because of the smoke.” 
 
 Head of Eye- Q Desai Superspeciality Eye Hospital Dr   was not available for his comments. 
 
 
