BEGALURU: The   (CID) investigating the alleged   that rocked the   (BTC) in March last year has named six officials, including its former  , in the chargesheet filed before a local court.

 The chargesheet, running into 636 pages, contains the statements of 44 witnesses. It claims that the six men — Prasad; BTC chief stipendiary officer Pradyumna Singh who is also co-owner of the horse in question (Queen Latifa); restaurateur Arjun Sajnani; steward Vivek Ubhaykar; horse trainer Neil Darashah and BTC’s deputy chief veterinary officer Dr HS Mahesh —intentionally drugged the filly in a Bengaluru race.
 
 The chargesheet says there is evidence to show that several other horses trained by Darashah had also tested positive in the past and that he appears to be a habitual offender. It further said that the six men colluded with each other and added a new lab to the medication list without proper authorisation only to keep the filly’s intake of the banned substance from becoming public.
 
 CID took up the investigation after a BTC member filed a police complaint in April 2017 claiming that Queen Latifa was doped during the race held on March 5, 2017, where the filly stood first. There are allegations of the same filly having lost another race in April in Ooty. 
 
 Based on its Queen Latifa’s win in Bengaluru, around 70,000 punters had purchased tickets amounting to Rs 7 lakh saying the filly would win first or second place. Samples of Queen Latifa — which won the Karnataka Racehorse Owners’ Association Million Cup for covering a distance of 1,100m — were collected soon after the race and sent to the National Doping Test Laboratory. NDTL results said the horse had tested positive for a local anaesthetic, procaine.
 
 Claiming that NDTL’s report confirmed the doping, H Sanjeevaiah Chandregowda, member of the management committee of Karnataka Racehorse Owners’ Association, on April 19 lodged a complaint with High Grounds police, accusing the club officials. The case was later handed over to CID and before police could summon the accused, all the six succeeded in getting anticipatory bail.
 
 The International Equestrian Federation (FEI) classifies procaine in the ‘controlled medication’ category. Though deemed to have therapeutic value and commonly used in equine medicine, controlled medication has the potential to affect performance and or pose a welfare risk to the horse, FEI says.
 
 
