Just had fun with 14 yrs guy... His first time! At my home...’ A   group for gays, dubbed ‘Bringing together’ buzzed with these messages last sunday, when the group admin, who identifies himself as Kushal, now in police custody, bragged, insinuating that he ‘raped’ a 14-year-old — a relative’s son who had come to his house for for summer vacation. Shockingly, many egged him on; someone called him a ‘DUDE’ and said, ‘You Rock’. But what’s even more disturbing was how the blatant sex abuse of a child was normalised, like it’s a coming-of-age rite of passage; not rape! 
When one voice of reason rose in protest in all the lustful din, Kushal dismissed the user saying, ‘All get habituated in that age only by cousins...’ and added, ‘Even I got into this by one of my cousin brother’, revealing the sad fact that perpetrators of   are often victims themselves. These messages that Kushal thought were innocuous, are now being used as evidence against him after someone from the group brought it to the notice of child rights activist Achyuta Rao, who filed a complaint, following which Kushal (real name withheld to protect identity of the minor victim) was sent to judicial remand. 
 “Based on the complaint, the accused was arrested and a case was booked under Section 12 of the POCSO Act,” V Prasanna Kumar, SHO of Kukatpally PS told   on Thursday. Elaborating on the development in the investigation, Narayan Singh, SI, Kukatpally PS, said, “We found out that the accused had asked the victim to remove his clothes. The victim got scared and ran away. But it’s still a clear case of sexual harassment. Now, the court will decide further course of action.”
 
 
  While this case brings to the fore once again just how vulnerable our boys are, the need of the hour is for society to admit that this is a problem, instead of pretending that nothing can happen to boys. “It’s really depressing that about 15 years after I was abused as a child, the situation is still the same and maybe even worse. My abuse began at the age of six, at the hands of my cousin, and it pushed me into a traumatic zone. I can imagine what this victim is going through,” says Vishnu Teja, an LGBTQI activist and a child sexual abuse survivor. He goes onto add, “Beti bachao, par bete ko bhool jao? For male child sex abuse survivors like me, living with the trauma of our childhood is even more difficult because society expects us to not cry or complain. All children are equally vulnerable, let us not be selective in our outrage, and single out a gender.”
 Tashi Choedup, Buddhist monk and queer rights activist, adds, “Cases of sexual molestation of male children are common in India. But people usually don’t talk about it because the society perceive man as masculine and they feel they can’t be molested.”
 Achyuta Rao agrees that the patriarchal attitude of our society perpetuates sex abuse against male children. “Male sexual abuse is rampant, because the abusers know the victims will never speak up due to the social conditioning. In fact, the legal backing that such cases receive is also weak, because abuse on male bodies can go unnoticed, unlike female bodies,” he explains.
 “Sexual violation has nothing to do with one’s gender or sexual orientation and anybody could be a victim of it. When the society can’t even openly discuss about alternative sexuality and gender, it’s futile to expect it to talk about sexual molestation — be it that of a male child or female,” adds Tashi.
 
 
 First of all, acknowledge that the problem exists. “stop infantilising and desexualising your boys,” says Purnima, adding, “If you assume your son is a kid who doesn’t know what he’s talking about, you wouldn’t take his experiences or problems seriously. Also, if you assume that male children are de-sexual, or that they can’t be harmed sexually, then that’s problematic as well.” Parents also must monitor the kind of networks their children are part of online and on mobiles, says Achyuta Rao. “All a person needs is the phone number of a child and he can easily get roped into such groups and be exposed to criminals. There are numerous cases where whatsapp groups served as the networking base for sexual predators. In fact, this group also had some minor boys as members,” adds Rao. 
 
 
 
 Anil, an   activist sums it up by saying, “Society fails to understand that a sexual predator will go to any extent to satisfy his desires, irrespective of the gender of his victims. It makes boys also equally vulnerable, they can be raped also! Instead of counselling the victims, we must sensitise society that a male child is equally vulnerable. The reason why a lot of girls are now speaking out against their rapists is because they feel free and bold to express their concerns. They are confident that the law is on their side. Only when more boys come out against abusers, we will able to identify and punish them.”
 
 
 
 “We often think that rape can’t be done against a man. But both males and females undergo the same trauma and psychological issues when abused sexually. Out of shock, they feel dumbness, helpless and will have negative psychological and behavioral effects. They worry if they were also partly involved in the act and get furious. After such an incident males are more subjected to self-esteem and they end up with sexual dysfunction. They will start having a question about their own sexuality and feel that they have betrayed their own body and this leads to sexual gender identity confusion,” says Harini Atturu, Psychiatrist, CARE hospitals, Hitech City.
 
 
 
 “Any child, whether it’s a boy or girl, subjected to rape will be under shock for many days. And in majority of the kids the trauma will continue forever. They will be in depression and will behave differently. When the child behaves abnormally instead of becoming aggressive, the parents should be open to listen to them and if they feel the child has a problem then take the child to a professional psychologist. In many cases only a councilor can understand whether the child is undergoing any trauma or any sexual orientation issues. Through proper counseling the child can come out of the traumatic situation,” Dr C Veerender, Counselling Psychologist. 
 
 
 Ever since this case came to light, fingers have been pointed, yet again, at the LGBTQ community. They are being unfairly stereotyped and branded as a bunch of sexual predators who prey on vulnerable young boys, laments Sandy, an activist, who was one of the members who called out Kushal on the group. “It was a just a friendly group for gay men; not a child trafficking ring as it’s being made out to be in the media. In fact, when I first grappled with coming to terms with my own sexual orientation, it was through this group that I figured that homosexuality was common; not some condition only I was suffering from. today I lead the Hyderabad chapter of the LGBTQ community. All of us are shocked that this happened and don’t endorse child abuse,” he says. 
 “What’s sickening is, most of the times the society points finger on gay men for committing such crimes, but in reality perverts are perverts, and it has nothing to do with their gender or sexual orientation,” asserts Tashi.
 Psychologists concur that linking sexual abuse and homosexuality would be wrong, says Purnima Nagaraja, consultant mental health professional and therapist. “A person’s orientation or how they like to have sex has nothing to do with them being rapists or terrorists. Not all gays are going to rape. In this case, the perpetrator has normalised the abuse he suffered as a child and believes that it happens, and so, it is okay to do it to others. Here, him being homosexual has nothing to do with his abusive sexual deviance,” she says. Purnima goes on to explain that having an abusive sexual experience in childhood rarely influences your orientation. “If someone was abused in the childhood, it does add a lot of confusion, guilt, shame and disrupt the normal way on recognising one’s orientation, but one will figure out if one is gay or bi-sexual. It would be absolutely wrong to say that someone turned gay because he was abused,” she adds.
 
 Cases of molestation of male children are common in India. People usually don’t talk about it because society perceives men as masculine and think they can’t be molested. What’s more sickening is most of the times the society thinks only gay men commit such crimes. but in reality, perverts are perverts. Sexual violation has nothing to do with one's gender or sexual orientation. When we as a society can’t even discuss alternative sexuality and gender openly, it’s futile to expect us to talk about molestation — be it that of a male child or female.— Tashi Choedup, Buddhist monk and queer rights activist
 
 
 
 
 
