GURUGRAM: Moving a step closer to end-to-end movement of vehicles on Dwarka expressway,   (Huda) on Thursday demolished nearly 40 boundary walls around vacant plots in New  . The move is aimed at clearing the way for movement of vehicles through New Palam Vihar.

 “We demolished walls of vacant plots to take possession of these plots to make a 40ft-wide road running through New Palam Vihar, as a temporary way for commuters to reach   from Sector 115,” said Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav. He said after the   drive in New Palam Vihar, they will start working in Kherki Daula. 
 
 “Some of the structures have already been removed from Kherki Daula. We have now levelled the road to ensure easy movement of vehicles,” said Yadav, adding they are trying to ensure uninterrupted movement of vehicles from one end of the expressway in Sector 115 to Kherki Daula, where it meets NH-8. “With this, we’ve cleared the way for movement of vehicles on this New Palam Vihar stretch,” said Huda sub-divisional-officer (SDO) H S Jakhad, adding that for now they will construct a temporary road on this stretch. 
 
 Of the entire 29km-long Dwarka expressway, a 18km stretch is in Gurgaon, and the remaining portion is in Delhi. The road is almost complete in Gurgaon, except at Kherki Daula and New Palam Vihar, relocation of houses coming in the way of the road has delayed the project. The structures and plots at Kherki Daula and New Palam Vihar are classified in three categories — vacant plots, houses with registries and houses with general power of attorney. 
 
 Huda allotted alternative plots to houses with registries, while the case related to GPA holders is pending with Punjab and Haryana high court. More than 568 oustees of the Dwarka expressway project — from Chauma, New Palam Vihar, Kherki Daula and other areas — had applied for alternative plots under the final terms of settlement (FTS) of 2015, prepared under the supervision of Punjab and Haryana high court. 
 
 Huda had identified 212 oustees eligible for rehabilitation and handed over allotment letters to 148 of them in Sector 110A and Sector 37C. However, as many as 64 oustees are holders of general power of attorney (GPA) and special power of attorney (SPA), and their rehabilitation hopes rest solely on the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 
