Nagpur: A 12-year-old boy died when his throat was slit by the sharp corner of iron sheets protruding from a mini-truck parked inappropriately on a turning, 500 meters away from his house at Rajapeth, on Monday evening. A passer-by helped neighbours rush the Std VI boy, Piyush Ghode, to two private hospitals, but their refusal to help led to his death, said the boy’s father, Shrikant. The incident again points out the dismal failure to implement the Supreme Court’s ruling of August 2016, and the central government decision of 2014, to ban all vehicles from carrying rods, pipes or any material protruding beyond the body frame. Hudkeshwar police have registered an offence of negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide under section 304A IPC against the driver of the vehicle. The driver was at large till the filing of this report. Senior PI of Hudkeshwar police station RA Mane said the driver had not placed any red cloth or reflector strips to indicate danger. Piyush’s mother Shubhangi had died due to brain haemorrhage eight years back. Piyush was riding his bicycle to a friend’s place, from where the duo was about to go to a grocery shop, said the family. “The lanes of the locality are slightly zigzag. When Piyush was turning his bicycle, he failed to notice the iron sheets projecting out of the truck at the corner of Adarsh Grocery Shop, owned by Gangadhar Nandanwar, who had ordered the construction material. As Piyush turned right, the pointed edge of the iron sheets stabbed into his throat, leading to a deep cut, and he started bleeding profusely. He collapsed on the road,” said kin. One of the neighbours told TOI, “An unknown motorcyclist saw the incident and screamed out for help. He took Piyush on his bike, and followed his directions to reach Piyush’s house. While narrating the episode to his grandmother, Piyush fell unconscious due to the heavy bleeding. Neighbours then noticed his severed veins were jutting out of the wound.” Shrikant, 46, was at his job at a private firm, they added. “Neighbours rushed Piyush to a nearby private hospital but doctors refused to admit in. Then they took him to renowned Apulki Vairagade private hospital on Manewada Road and got the same response. Piyush was then taken to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), where doctors declared him dead after 15 minutes,” Shrikant told TOI. He added that if his son had received primary treatment, he would have been saved. When asked why medical aid was refused, a senior doctor of Vairagade Hospital, Susheel Vairagade, told TOI, “I had examined the boy immediately but he was brought dead, hence, I referred the family to GMCH.”