NOIDA: Director-general of police OP Singh on Monday inaugurated three important initiatives — an automatic challan system on Yamuna expressway, a mobile-based e-challan in the city and red light violation detection cameras (RLVD) at two places — to improve the traffic situation in Noida and Greater Noida. He also inaugurated buildings for two police stations in Greater Noida, and promised a new police station along the Yamuna expressway.

 The automatic challan generation system will issue challans to those caught speeding on the expressway near Jewar toll plaza. The DGP, in his first visit to Greater Noida after he took charge in January, said the aim was to ensure commuters’ safety and check accidents.
 
 According to the DGP, the government is planning to make Noida a model city. “We have launched an automatic challan generation system at Jewar toll plaza. The cameras installed on the expressway will capture speeding vehicles (for cars/SUVs, speed limit is 100 kmph and heavy vehicles 60 kmph). The new system will alert officials at the toll plaza about violations and generate challans. The violators will be issued challans once he/she reaches toll plaza for payment,” he said.
 
 In the first leg, the programme has been launched for travellers on the way from Greater Noida to Agra. This service has not been launched on the right hand side as its jurisdiction comes under Aligarh and Meerut districts. 
 
 In 2016 and 2017, a total of 105 and 110 people, respectively, had died in accidents on the expressway. From January to March this year, 18 persons have died. The officials said nearly 5,000 accidents had taken place on the expressway from January 2012 to April 2018.
 
 The DGP also launched a mobile phone-based e-challan generation system for the city and distributed 153 mobile phones to traffic policemen. The mobile application facilitates traffic cops to issue e-challans to violators, and an SMS alert is delivered on the violator’s number. The violator would have to pay the fine on the spot or at the SP traffic’s office in Noida. In case the challans are not paid, the police will approach court.
 
 In the third initiative, red light violation detection cameras ( RLVD) have been installed at two important points — Stadium Crossing and Gijhod Crossing — which will also generate automatic challans. These cameras are already installed at Sector 57 and Sector 31-25 crossing. The cameras capture the violators and challans are issued in their mailing addresses. The DGP said the government will also open a new police station along the Yamuna expressway to improve law and order situation, commuters’ safety, and check crimes. “I will take the matter to the chief minister to set up a police station there. The patrolling on the Yamuna expressway will also be improved,” he said. He said the response time of Dial 100 has also decreased from 23 minutes to 14 minute 53 seconds. 
 
 The DGP said that he will also increase the number of traffic inspectors in the city. “The number of traffic inspectors will be increased from 2 to 7,” he said. He also inaugurated new buildings of Knowledge Park and Ecotech III police stations and a fire station in Greater Noida. The DGP also met representatives of residents welfare associations, Active Citizen Team, and Noida Entrepreneurship Association. However, he left the media briefing midway when asked a question about encounters in the state.
 
 
