Tirupur: Knitwear industrialists here were more or less a disappointed lot on Thursday as the Union budget failed to address many of their long-pending demands. They, however, welcomed the allocation of Rs 7,148 crore for textile sector, of which Rs 2,300 crore was earmarked for Amended Technology Upgradation Fund Scheme (ATUFS). But they said allocation of Rs 2,255 crore for Rebate of State Levies (RoSL), one of the four incentives given to exporters, was inadequate. They were also disappointed that their demands for knitwear development board and ESI multispecialty hospital didn’t find a mention in the budget. The RoSL scheme came into effect on September 20, 2016 and the actual requirement for our apparel sector till March 31, 2018 is Rs 5,000 crore (average 3.5% of FOB value of garments).The concern is that the made-up sector has also be given RoSL benefit out of the allotted amount,” Tirupur Exporters’ Association president Raja M Shanmugham said. “Tirupur, the knitwear hub of the country, should be given importance when it comes to developing infrastructure facilities. We have been demanding for a Knitwear Development Board for long as there isn’t an industrial body to connect with policy makers. But the budget has no mention of it,” he added. Shanmugham, however, welcomed the relaxation in corporate tax for MSMEs and also hailed the proposed amendment to the Employee Provident Fund (EPF) to reduce women employees’ contribution to 8% from 12% for the first three years of their employment. “Since it was the last budget for the Narendra Modi-led government, it has made many positive announcements, including Rs 3 lakh crore for Mudra scheme, of which 76% will go to women,” said KS Babuji, general secretary, Collar Work and Hosiery Small Industries Association.  The budget also did not go down well with the industrial trade unions. “The Tirupur Trade Unions Federation had unanimously made an appeal to exempt job work sector of the industry from GST since it attracts a cumulative tax rate of 40%. But the Union finance minister didn’t do anything about it” said N Sekar, general secretary, Banian Factories Labour Union, Tirupur AITUC. TNN