KOLKATA: There are two Ustad Amjad Ali Khans. One, who has mesmerised audiences by playing a solo concert from 9 in the night to seven in the morning. Two, whose rendition of ‘Jingle Bells’ on the sarod impressed a generation of uninitiated young listeners so much that his video became one of their most-favourite Christmas greetings over WhatsApp.

 On a cold Kolkata winter afternoon when the Ustad walks into the conference room, you wonder which hat he is wearing now. Over the years, his presentation style has changed. From lengthy concerts, today he prefers shorter presentations and also refers to the popularity of the three-minute 78 rpm recordings of Ustad   Khan, Ustad Vilayat Khan and Vidushi Annapurna Devi. Music, he says, is about quality, not quantity. After referring to an anecdote about the legendary vocalist   from his book titled ‘Master on Masters’, he shares a “historical joke” that has been doing the rounds. “A young musician was once performing with his eyes closed. At the end of the concert, the audience dwindled from 2,000 to 2. Still, he was content since he preferred two knowledgeable listeners to 2,000 uninitiated ones. But among the two, one was the person who was in charge of the microphone. The other was the artiste awaiting his next turn. “This joke reveals the importance of proportion. Wouldn’t it have been better if the musician played in such a way that those 2,000 listeners hadn’t left the auditorium?” he poses a rhetorical 
 question. 
 
 Strictly against stagnation, he recommends a brand of creativity that is “fresh and new”. “According to my guru and father,  , there are many ways to present classical music. Unfortunately, in our country, we blindly follow convention,” he points out. That’s perhaps why even “untrained” young musicians “freely and bravely” go up on stage and present a recital that is all complete with alaap, jod, jhala. “But Indian classical music is not only about alaap, jod, jhala or even improvisation,” he insists.
 
 According to him, compositions are the greatest wealth in all forms of music — be it that of Indian classical or those of Western legends, including Beethoven and Mozart. “When the musician is dead, the improvisations go with him. But the compositions stay on. Vocal music has various kinds of compositions. But if you listen to instrumental music history, there are many musicians who didn’t even play the antara. They will pick up the mukhda and start the improvisations,” he points out.
  
 This choice of prolonged performances, sometimes ‘operating’ a raga with unnecessary improvisations, stretch its tensile limit. “Everyone wants to show how great a pandit or ustad he is. Certain ragas allow long improvisations. Ragas like Anandi and Kedara become boring if you prolong them. Instead of making a recital long and boring, I concentrated on my compositions, sometimes coming up with very offbeat ones,” he says, before breaking into his own composition on Raag Miyan ki Malhar.
 
 He reminisces about some compositions he had created as a young man — those that need a lot of energy and power. And then, he sings one in raag Bhairavi. “I’m glad my sons and disciples are playing them now,” he says.
 
 So, was it an impulse or a conscious decision to play ‘Old Mc Donald’ and ‘Jingle Bells’ on the sarod? He pauses for a second, takes a sip of coffee and then explains how he never suffered from the “log kya kahenge” syndrome. “My father used to repeatedly tell me that he did what he thought was right and asked me to do that too,” he says. Some gurus, he says, turn their disciples into clones. “The disciple plays, sings and even looks like the guru. Very few gurus allowed their disciples to listen to other musicians. My father used to say the opposite. From the very beginning, I did what I felt was right. As a family, we are connected with every religion and soul of the world. So, why should I look down upon ‘Jingle Bells’ or even ‘Old Mc Donald’? They are all based on ‘sa-re-ga-ma-pa-dha-ni’. Thank God that music has connected the world,” he adds.
  
 This fearlessness to speak his mind has perhaps given him the strength to advocate radical choices. Once a regular at innumerable whole-night conferences, today he would want to do away with that trend. Earlier on, connoisseurs included zamindars who would listen to whole-night concerts. They had the luxury to sleep all day and then go back to concerts at night. Today’s common people don’t have that luxury. “My sons and I had played one night-long concert at Kala Mandir. Different tabla players had accompanied us. But that’s something I wouldn’t wish to repeat now. People can’t take that music overdose any more. The ideal situation for a listener is to have one artist on one evening. This series can continue. The listener won’t get tired, can soak in the music, go back home and have dinner at the right time,” he says.
 
 More radical suggestions come up when he analyses whether the   is an effective yardstick to judge Indian classical music. It isn’t, he nods. “We have received the freedom but are not free mentally. What’s unfortunate is that Indians have missed the magic of Western classical music. Why are there no symphony orchestras in India? Everyone is talking about teaching classical music in school. But that’s not important. We shouldn’t torture our children. They should know about Beethoven and Bach. All institutions of classical music should teach students folk music. Then their music will become colourful,” he suggests.
 
 On being asked about the changing nature of concert organisers, he says that today most of them have turned to being “curators”, or PR agencies. Then, he comes down heavily on NGOs who get huge grants for “promoting” classical music. “Music is not soda or toothpaste. It grows on its own. Don’t impose music,” he says. Free tickets don’t do any good to music, he adds. It is the duty of every organisation to have ticketed concerts. “Even if we go to a mandir, we buy the prasad that we offer. Anything freely available has no future.”
 
 Religion, of course, is another core issue. “We need to understand that we have a common God and are a common race. I wish every priest from all religions preaches that. But they all get their salaries and unfortunately don’t do so,” he rues.
 
 While backlashes don’t worry him when he freely airs these views, one wonders about his take on an artiste’s freedom of expression. “Creative people must have freedom,” he says. And what about the responsibility that comes with exercising it and the trend of selective use of freedom of expression by some artistes? “No religion should feel hurt. Sometime artistes take too much freedom. That becomes unhealthy,” he says. Has he come across someone who took too many liberties? “There was a controversy when M F Husain painted a nude Saraswati. Every creative man should respect the sentiments of other religions. He shouldn’t have done it.... He did not mean disrespect but people took it otherwise,” he says.
 
 Should there be absolute freedom in music too? The Ustad would prefer a manual penned by the great masters to guide a musician on how long one should sing ragas.
 
 As the free-wheeling chat comes to a close, it seems there is no contradiction between the first and second Ustad Amjad Ali Khans. Each complements the other to pitch for the voice of a living legend whose words, as much as his music, stand out of the cacophony to resonate with clarity of thought and vision.
 
