She belongs to a filmi family — her father Sivakumar, brothers Suriya and Karthi, and sister-in-law   are established actors in the industry — but Brindha   admits that she was super nervous when she recorded her first song for Thiru’s Mr. Chandramouli. She has sung the title track — a retro-ish number with jazzy influences — along with composer   CS, and says this has truly been a dream come true debut for her. 

 “When I was in Class X,   had called me for a trial recording. But my board exams were near and amma didn’t want me to get distracted. She was keen I prepare for my exams well and so, I didn’t go for it. But since then, it has always been a dream to sing, and I’m happy my childhood wish has been fulfilled,” begins Brindha. 
 
 Ask her how the song happened, and she says, “Dhananjayan is a family friend and he had heard me sing in one of the family functions. I usually sing the prayer song at Agaram’s events and at other family gatherings. A few months ago, he told us that he’s starting a film in December and that he’d call me to sing for him. I didn’t take it quite seriously, but he actually remembered that and connected again after three months. Later, Sam sir got in touch and asked me to send him a sample. After that, we did a trial recording and he told me the theme song suits my voice the best.”
 
 Brindha tells us that singing in front of the mic was a surreal experience. She adds, “I was scared and tensed that I had to record. I was also worried about getting the tune right. Even after I came home, I was not happy and kept thinking that I could have done better. I’ve only sung devotional songs so far, and so I was a little skeptical. So, I told Sam sir to not use my voice if he felt it was not up to the mark.”
 
 Interestingly, the whole process of composing the song and recording it happened within the span of a day. She elaborates, “Since this was my first attempt, I requested Sam sir to not give me any tough tune. He actually composed the song in the morning of the recording, and the lyrics were also penned that day. Swagatha was very encouraging, and saw to it that the song came out well.” 
 
 So, how did her family react to the song? “They are happier than me that I’ve sung for a film!” she says, “I used to visit Sathyaraj uncle’s home in Coonoor during summer holidays, and he would make me sing and always encourage me. All my friends have shared the song with everyone they know; now that I have started, they want me to sing more songs. Sathyan is a family friend, and he has sent voice messages to all our friends. Though it’s taken all these years for this to happen, he’s happy it’s finally happened!” 
 
 Brindha, who’s trained in Carnatic and abhangs, hopes to continue singing for films. “I will practice more and work on feeling comfortable with the whole recording process. I will also start brushing up Carnatic lessons to feel more confident,” she signs off. 
 
 
