PUDUCHERRY: Police busted an interstate ATM   and skimming   and   two people in this connection here before seizing cash, equipment and property worth Rs 31 lakh from their possession.

 The arrested have been identified as V Balaji, 26, technical assistant at Pondicherry University, from Lawspet, and S Jayachandiran alias Chandru, 30, from Murungapakkam.
 
 Balaji is an electronic communications engineering graduate. He and Jayachandiran run two internet browsing centres – B J M Enterprises at Sithankudi and S S Computers at Vallalar Salai – in the town limits.
 
 The modus operandi of the gang was to fix skimmers and secret cameras at   centres and collect the ATM card data and the pin numbers of the unsuspecting people. Then the gang members create duplicate ATM   through magnet strip reader (MSR) machines and withdraw money from the cardholders’ bank accounts using the duplicate cards. They also transfer money from the cardholders’ accounts to their accounts by swiping the duplicate cards on the point of sale (POS) machines in their possession.
 
 They also have close links with similar gangs in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Police have launched efforts to nab all those involved in the crime in the three states and the Union territory.
 
 Director general of police S K Gautam told reporters, in the presence of deputy inspector general of police (administration) V J Chandran, that a CB-CID police team raided the B J M computer centre following a tip and found Balaji and Jayachandiran in possession of a few electronic equipment and cards similar to ATM cards. On thorough inquiries, the duo confessed to collecting ATM card data and to creating duplicate ATM cards for withdrawing money from the cardholders’ bank accounts.
 
 Further inquiries revealed that the two had learned to collect ATM card data and pin numbers illegally from one Shyam in Chennai. Balaji bought skimming and MSR machines online. He established his illegal business in other states with the help of Rameez (Kerala) and Kamal (Tamil Nadu).
 
 Police seized Rs 4 lakh cash and Rs 1.93 lakh from Balaji’s bank account, 44g of gold jewellery, 19 POS machines, two MSR machines, eight duplicate ATM cards, 13 ATM cards, nine bank passbooks, a car, a motorcycle, a computer and a document of a plot worth Rs 15 lakh in the name of Balaji’s mother (V Kalayarasi).
 
 Police booked them under Sections 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 379 (punishment for theft) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the IPC and Section 66-C of the Information Technology Act, 2000. 
 
 
