KOLKATA: Kolkata has ranked second among 23 major Indian cities in an annual survey that evaluates the quality of governance in cities, comfortably beating more fancied rivals like Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad.

  
 Kolkata has scored over most of the other major metros in the four parameters, finishing second on empowered and legitimate political representation, third in urban planning & development, sixth in urban capacity and resources and 10th in transparency, accountability & participation.
 
 This is the fifth year that the Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy, a Bengaluru-based non-profit organisation, has released its report on Annual Survey of India’s City-Systems (ASICS).
 
 Delighted by the city’s performance in the survey, mayor   said the Kolkata Municipal Corporation would try to ensure that the city finished first the next time. “Kolkata can be number one in a couple of years,” he said.
 
 The study has found that Kolkata’s per capita capital expenditure has increased steadily over the last three years and is currently around Rs 1,546. It is among the nine cities, out of the total 23, that has adhered to budget timelines as mandated by law. It is also among the 12 cities where audited financial statements are available online.
 
 The city also performed well on the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut) oarameters, like credit rating, publishing e-newsletters and implementation of the double-entry accounting system. It has introduced a live e-procurement system and details on schemes and services and audited annual financial statements are available on the web. Kolkata is also the only city that has not witnessed any municipal commissioner churn in the last five years.
 
 The mayor said the civic authority’s stress on transparency in city governance had paid off. “We have taken several steps to root out corruption in the last three-four years. All types of payments have been made online; building sanction can be done at the click of a button. We have also upgraded the accounting system. Our target will be to finish number onein future,”   said.
 
 Coventionally regarded as an unplanned city because it has evolved organically over 300 years, the Raj-era city has emerged third in urban planning and design, behind only Delhi and Bhubaneswar, which have seen planned growth.
 
 State urban development minister   attributed the improved performance in planning and development to funds pumped in to develop infrastructure. “We are pleased with the results but we will be more happy when we finish on top. There are major proposals lined up to ease traffic by constructing flyovers, subways and underpasses,” he said.
 
 The Janaagraha study evaluates the quality of governance in 23 cities across 20 states based on 89 questions posed to respondents. It does not measure the quality of infrastructure and services, like roads and traffic, garbage, water, housing, sanitation and air pollution. What it does measure, instead, is the preparedness of cities to deliver high-quality infrastructure and services in the long term by evaluating “city-systems” of spatial planning and design standards, municipal finance, municipal staffing, political leadership at the city level and transparency and citizen participation.
 
 
