How does one read all that has happened in  ? BJP has lost the battle to run the state, but it may have lost something much more.
 
 The Congress-JD(S) combine has managed to pull through; it has been able to resist the assault mounted by BJP, thanks in large measure to the intervention of the  , which did not give BJP the time it needed to engineer defections. The party tried its best to derail the alliance, but this time around, the task was beyond its formidable powers of ‘political management’.
 
 
 BJP could have won in Karnataka only by employing visibly corrupt means, and it showed every indication that it was ready to do so. It may feel aggrieved that in spite of emerging as the clear leader post the elections, it was unable to muster up adequate numbers. The Congress-JD(S) alliance may have been formed entirely out of convenience, but given a hung verdict, a post-poll alliance is a common solution. What is significant is that what brings them together is not even a semblance of a common minimum programme, but a shared desire for power. In any case, had the situation been reversed, BJP would have had no qualms in acting exactly as   has. In fact, this was a distinct possibility that was widely speculated upon given Modi’s overtures to   during the campaign.
 
 The question of victory and defeat is a more complicated one. Arguably, who has seized power in the state is not the most important way to evaluate this. While BJP may have lost the electoral battle, the truth is that winning was not as consequential as the desperate attempts to do so suggest. A government led by the tainted Yeddyurappa, which won power thanks to transparently unsavoury tactics, would do the party little by way of longterm gain.
 
 The really significant event, as far as the 2019 elections are concerned, is not that BJP has lost the chance to govern Karnataka, but that Congress and JD(S) have come together, and that too largely as a result of an accident of numbers. BJP won too many seats for its own good. By winning 104 seats, BJP made an alliance with JD(S) mutually disadvantageous. But as a consequence, JD(S)’s alliance with Congress, built on purely opportunistic motives, creates real difficulties for BJP in 2019. Its muscular approach in trying to fix the match in its favour further crystallises the message to the opposition that coming together solidly is the only way to stop BJP.
 
 BJP’s strategy in Karnataka is a continuation of its apply-force-relentlessly-towin-at-all-costs strategy that it has been employing for some time. The desire to fly its flag in more and more states is smacking of a spirit of conquest, shorn of a larger strategic objective. The costs extracted by winning and the effects generated by it are adding up, making the party’s task in 2019 that much more difficult. Given that on its own, the party managed 31% of the votes, means that it derives much of its strength from the weakness of the opposition. The absence of a strong national alternative continues to be a factor in its favour, Rahul Gandhi’s recent makeover notwithstanding. But increasingly, and in no small measure due to BJP’s take-no-prisoners approach, the opposition is finding reasons to unite, and this has significant consequences. In Karnataka, for instance, the Congress-JD(S) combine has a 56% vote share against BJP’s 36%. The SP-BSP combine could also lead to a serious erosion in the number of seats BJP can expect from UP. BJP on its part, has not shown a great ability to work with alliance partners.
 
 The desire to keep winning has had another major cost — the party has had to gradually shed many elements in the proposition that propelled it to victory in 2014. The development story has been excised, the anti-corruption narrative has been deeply compromised following the induction of the Reddy brothers as well as the manner in which it has tried to buy over MLAs from the other side in Karnataka. BJP’s machinations in Karnataka make a mockery of its claims to being implacably opposed to corruption. What remains is a harder form of Hindutva and Modi’s personal appeal. In its unrelenting desire to win every time, the party is losing many of the reasons why it won in 2014.
 
 The curious bit is that out of all stakeholders in Indian politics, it is RSS that understands the power of time the best. The RSS project is a longterm one spanning decades. The current leadership of BJPis obsessively focused on winning each individual encounter, using whatever means necessary, regardless of its long-term effects.
 
 While it is possible to argue about victory and defeat as seen from the perspective of each political party, it is safe to argue that the practice of politics as a whole lies in tatters. When the elected representatives in a country need to be corralled into resorts and deprived of the means to communicate with the outside world in order to protect them from their own venality, we know that to expect clean governance from any quarter is a fantasy. The willingness to corrupt and be corrupted has been on public display. When the media does not express anger and shock at this but instead cheers such attempts in the name of strategy, we know that change is not around the corner.
 
 santosh365@gmail.com
 
 
