Chennai: Millennials are showing a declining interest in agri-based jobs. But a reverse trend is seen among those who above 31 years of age, data from job search portal Indeed shows . HR professionals & firms see that job seekers in the 21-25 age group show less interest in the sector than those with over 8-9 years of experience. The data on millennials — generation comprises of fresh graduates, newcomers to the industry and interns — shows the lowest level of interest in agriculture jobs, 4% lower than the average. However, those within the 31-35 age groups showed 5% greater interest than average. Sashi Kumar, managing director, Indeed India said, “Shift in consumer behaviour towards healthy eating, and by extension, healthy living is driving the movement towards clean labelling; an area that requires agricultural expertise. Increasingly, food manufacturers are leaning towards wholesome recipes that appeal to the informed consumer.” Companies and recruitment agencies add that clean labelling, usage of natural products and emergence of start-ups in the agri space that incorporate tech have propelled those with diverse experiences in automotive & manufacturing sectors now express interest in the agri sector. Organic products company Jus Herbs sees experienced candidates taking to roles in production and packaging functions. For fresh products distribution startup Waycool, on-the-field jobs and operations roles and warehouse management see more uptick. “In our company, over 75% of the work force is over the age of 31. While millennials who are just out of college don’t find the field as glamorous, those who have undergone a set of training programmes in a different sector, are moving towards the sector, knowing the prospects,” said Sanjay Dasari, co-founder, Waycool. Industry sources also see movement from the IT sector, farm equipment, automotive industries into agri-tech marketplaces. “With increasing number of start-ups in the field and the sector seeing interest from investors, there is a rise in experienced candidates from other sectors who want to explore agri-tech. For example, those with technical expertise are looking to get into supply chain and vice versa. But overall, there’s lower activity among freshers, who don’t look forward to working in the sector,” said Aditya Mishra, CEO, CIEL HR services.