The last couple of months have gone by in a tizzy for  . The actress has been busy filming her next in Mollywood, Rosshan Andrrews’s Kayamkulam Kochunni (KK) with  , and says this is one film that she’s going to cherish being a part of. “I am really fortunate to get to work with a director like Rosshan and be a part of an epic like KK with some of our country's best technicians and talents. It was always a dream to work in a period film and I’m so glad to be working on something so authentic like this,” she begins. 

 Talking about the kind of research that’s gone into the film, Priya says, “Since it’s a period film and authentic to the story of Kochunni, a lot of research has been put in. One of our ADs, Monisha, researched the backdrop and stories for over a year and a half! The best thing about Malayalam cinema is how real all the characters are. So, once I get out of my caravan, it was like getting teleported back in time!” 
 The actress opted out of three films to be a part of this one. Ask her if that was a wise decision, and she shoots back, “I’ve always done things my way and have always gone by my instinct. And it always has paid off. Working with these amazing technicians and being able to be lit up by Binod Pradhan (cinematographer) are things that I hadn’t even dreamt of! It’s not often that I get to work with someone as knowledgeable as Rosshan. And with   and   sir, this is one of the biggest films to look forward to this year. Nivin has so much honesty in his smile. Don’t let him trick you into thinking he’s a pavam! He’s such a brat. I’ve liked him from Neram and I’m looking forward to the audiences response to our characters.”
 
 Priya plays Janaki, a character that has a huge influence in the life of Kochunni. Ask her if she saw the 1966 film made on the same subject (popular Mollywood actress Sukumari had played Janaki Pillai in it), and she says, “No. But every woman will relate to my character. The stories are so real that it doesn’t take much effort to perform, as the emotions my character goes through are true to life.”
 
