BENGALURU: Assembly elections in the state are just around the corner and caste politics is simmering. The latest salvo is over the government’s move to instal bronze statues of  , the poet-saint, and K C Reddy, the first chief minister of  , in the Vidhana Soudha premises. It echoes the ‘statue politics’ played out by former Uttar Pradesh chief minister and BSP leader Mayawati.

 Transport minister H M Revanna told reporters on Tuesday that the government instal a 22-foot statue of Kanakadasa opposite the Legislators’ Home (LH). He also said the government plans to develop the area as ‘Kanaka Tapovana’.
 
 In 2017, the   government had installed a 12 ft statue of poet Maharshi Valmiki and developed it as ‘Valmiki Tapovana’. It was seen then as a move to appease the politically-strong Valmiki community. Party sources say Kanakadasa, the 16th century Bhakti poet-saint, is revered by the Kuruba community. The proposed statue is being seen as a move to woo the community ahead of the elections.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 “It is also a tribute from Kuruba leaders Siddaramaiah and Revanna as Siddaramaiah happens to be the first CM from the community,” party sources suggested.
 
 The statue will be sculpted by noted sculptor, Gudikar Nadiger, Revanna said. “The government has already released Rs two crore and the statue will be ready within six weeks,” he said. “The statue will be installed on the lawn right in front of Valmiki’s statue.”
 
 A statue of Reddy, the first chief minister of erstwhile  , will also be installed soon. Reddy’s family had requested the government to install a statue since there are no visible reminders of Reddy's legacy. It was he who drew up the blueprint of the Vidhana Soudha and succeeded in getting the Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to lay the foundation stone on July 13, 1951. 
 
 This move is also seen an attempt by the Congress government to woo the Reddy-Vokkaliga community before the polls. “The family had made the request some three years ago,” sources said. “The government paid no heed to their request, but with polls in mind, it had now suddenly woken up.” Home minister B Ramalinga Reddy held a meeting with officials and decided to expedite the process. As a result, statues are likely to be installed by February.
 
 In 2016, the state government had amended the Parks (Conservation) Act, 2013 after the Karnataka high court set restrictions on installing statutes in the vicinity of the Vidhana Soudha and the Vikasa Soudha since both buildings are located in Cubbon Park premises. The law bans any kind of construction in Cubbon Park. In 2014, a 27-foot bronze statue of Mahatma Gandhi was installed in the space between the Vidhana Soudha and the Vikasa Soudha.
 
