Her tryst with social media began nine years ago when she joined Twitter. Today Sukhada  , who holds an engineering and MBA degree, has learnt the art of using the tools constructively to connect and build communities and to raise funds for social causes. 

 In the news for being able to raise Rs6.3 lakhs in a week for the ailing, 80-year-old inventor of HMT rice,   through crowd funding, Sukhada told TOI, “The way people opened up their purses to pitch in has been a very happy yet humbling experience for me.”
 
 
 
 A. It was incidental. When Twitter had started nine years back I joined it and was very excited about reaching out to new people. I also went for a Twitter meet up in 2010 and it was a mind-blowing experience to actually meet so many new people. We formed a movie group and it turned out to be big fun.
 
 
 
 
 A. My attempt is to create a new culture in Nagpur by building meaningful communities. By bringing together small things I am trying to make niche the main big thing. In this city people were not planning their weekends. I want them to get enthused and excited about meetups. In Ahmedabad, I chanced upon a ‘foodoholics’ group. On returning to Nagpur, I decided to form a similar one here and added 50 friends from my contact list to create Napgur foodies. Fortunately, they were interested in this activity and today we have 70,000 members and some 1,000 requests are pending. I started the   group as I wanted to get back to reading. For the first meet 21 people turned up of which I knew only one. I realized that people here were waiting for such platforms and were willing to give new ideas a move.
 
 
 
 
 A. No. It is just the beginning. A lot more can be done. This is the right time to build niche and refined groups. In his best-selling book Tribes,   says, “For the first time, everyone has an opportunity to start a movement — to bring together a tribe of like-minded people and do amazing things.” So much can be done when like-minded people come together and I am encouraging people to do this on their own. There are so many new groups like those of poetry, citizen activism and technology which have emerged from the existing ones. This growth is organic and revolutionary as people are doing what they like.
 
 
 
 
 A. The bulk are local and around 25% are the extremely committed ones who join the activities whenever they are visiting Nagpur. I was not expecting such numbers. Initially I was not even convinced that this was the way to go. But I have realized that what works is doing things without any hidden agenda. If we are volunteering for social causes in a structured way people will keep coming.
 
 
 
 
 A. The news of Dadaji’s plight made me very restless. It enraged me. Here was a man who had won some 100 awards. Almost everybody in this country must have consumed HMT rice. But he got nothing for his efforts and was struggling to get medical treatment. When the Nagpur foodies group had crossed a membership of 50,000 we had done a crowd funding event for an   named  , which works for farmer’s welfare, and were able to raise Rs.2.5 lakh though the target was just Rs1 lakh. This year when we crossed 70,000 I was thinking of doing a similar activity. I spoke to Dadaji’s son who told me that they require Rs2 lakhs so we decided to raise it through crowd funding.
 
 
 
 
 A. Yes. Last time it took us 20 days to raise Rs1 lakh. This time in just a week we could raise Rs5 lakh. It also reaffirmed my faith in the inherent goodness of people. Now we have extended the activity for another 20 days and have a target of Rs8 lakh which will take care of all his needs.
 
 
