KOLKATA: A day of fever-pitch behind-the-scene activity, after three days of indecision and inertia, culminated in the State Election Commission acquiescing to the   government’s proposal for a single-day panchayat poll before the start of the fasting month of Ramzan.

 The SEC on Thursday announced that it was going ahead with voting on May 14, as proposed by the state government, and withdrawing its own initial schedule of a three-phase poll — on May 1, 3 and 5 — that it had notified on March 31. Polling will be held from 7am to 5pm.
 
 The government, officials said, effectively upstaged the SEC and left it with little room to manoeuvre when it faxed a message at 3 pm on Thursday, proposing to the SEC the polling and counting dates, after waiting for three days from April 23, when the last nomination was filed. 
 
 In Bengal, unlike in other states, the government — and not the SEC — has the primacy over fixing polling dates and hours (under Section 42 of the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 1994) though the SEC takes precedence in deciding counting dates.
 
 The SEC also went through several rounds of legal consultation and then veered towards going with the government because turning down the latter’s proposal might have sparked off a legal battle like in 2013, when then state election commissioner Mira Pande moved court, saying the SEC did not have adequate forces to conduct polls.
 
 But the SEC differed with the state government on the day of counting and declaration of results. The state government proposed May 16 as the date for counting of votes and declaration of results but the SEC announced that this day could be kept for re-polls (wherever needed). But it stopped short of notifying this; neither did it notify the date for counting of votes and declaration of results.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee welcomed the SEC’s notification. “We are happy. People want elections in a democracy. We want peaceful polls and appeal to political parties to maintain peace,” the CM said. But the SEC’s “agreeing” to a single-day rural poll drew criticism from opposition parties and might hand them more ammo when they approach a Calcutta High Court division bench, which would be dissecting the SEC’s plans for securing polling booths after May 4.
 
 Opposition parties say the state government does not have enough forces to secure the 58,467 booths in rural Bengal. The have cited the latest report submitted by the director-general of police to the SEC, which shows that Bengal has a 46,000-strong armed force and 12,000 lathi-wielding constables; the sum of this number falls short of the number of booths. The SEC should need at least five security personnel for every booth, the opposition has said.
 
 An SEC official admitted that the state would have to engage more security staff. The SEC, sensing the opposition mood and desperate to avoid another round of legal skirmish, will call a meeting of stakeholders, including parties, soon before drawing up the security plan. “We will go by the HC directive,” SEC secretary   said.
 
 “The 46,000-strong armed force includes directors-general to superintendents of police. Will IPS officers man polling booths? Many polling booths will remain unmanned and this risks turning the rural polls into a farce,” BJP state general secretary   said. Former Supreme Court judge Asok Banerjee wondered how the commission could agree to a single-day poll. CPM leader and lawyer Bikash Bhattacharya held that the commission was not serious about holding elections. “How can the state election commissioner hold rural polls in one day when he could not provide security to candidates during the nomination process at 341 block offices? The commissioner is behaving like a state government officer. We will draw the attention of the court,” Bhattacharya said.
 
 The SEC kept raising the security issue in discussions on phone with senior state government officials, officials said, and the government assured that it would make arrangements for adequate security. Efforts are on at Nabanna to requisition armed forces from other states, if not central paramilitary forces. But, for this, Bengal will have to get the nod from the other states before the SEC submits its security plans to the HC by May 4.
 
 “The SEC cannot leave voters in the lurch. It has a constituional responsibility and has to discharge it. The HC asked it to redraw the poll schedule in consultation with political parties. But it is behaving like a state government stooge,”   president Adhir Chowdhury said.
 
 
