THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The formative process that will unify five departments – urban affairs, rural development, panchayat, town and country planning and   engineering – into a single local self-government department (LSGD) in Kerala is set for a turbulent phase. The present LSG department has received 2,000 individual responses in addition to submissions from service organizations raising complaints and recommendations for the changes to be included in  .

 
 The local-government commission had published the draft of LSGD state service special rules 2018 and LSGD subordinate service special rules 2018 in April. Complaints and suggestions were received till Tuesday. The biggest hurdle for the   government is the opposition raised by CPI-affiliated Kerala Panchayat Employees’ Federation ( ) to draft rules.
 
 In a detailed proposal on integration of departments, KPEF has pointed out that the draft rules framed by the commission scarcely served the purpose envisaged by the unification of departments. It also said that if the rules are implemented, it would lead to a barrage of legal petitions causing administrative lacunae across the state and over 30% of the vacancies would remain empty for years.
 
 “There is no mention in the draft rules as to how it will help enhance the benefits of decentralization. It only talks about unification of special rules and treats panchayat staff as second-grade citizens. It gives undue priority to certain departments and promotion of lower-grade staff will be stalled. We had given our recommendations prior to the drafting of rules, but the commission did not take it into account. There will be a crisis in terms of local body administration in the state if the rules are implemented as such. We have demanded cancellation of the draft rules and have sought a new one,” said general secretary of KPEF K Mukundan.
 
 The local-government commission is set to hold a joint sitting with principal director of LSGD to screen the complaints and recommendations. The principal director will compile the recommendations and forward it to government following which the latter is expected to hold discussions with various service organizations.
 
 Members of local-government commission said many of the objections were misleading. “It has arisen out of apprehensions and lack of proper understanding of technical terms. The draft rules have actually left factors like salary, promotion and other perks untouched,” said a member of the commission. The commission also needs to prepare a functional manual for integrating 169 cadres and 39,000 staff of LSGD.
 
 Officials of the town planning and LSGD engineering have also raised apprehensions regarding the unification process. Officials said that the principal director has already compiled a set of nine changes to be incorporated in the special rules.
 
