NEW DELHI: Heralding an end to roads lying unrepaired for long periods after being dug up in the capital, Delhi government has made it imperative on agencies that break up roads for work such as laying cables and pipelines or for other purpose to themselves fill the cavities and restore the roads. This is expected to remove the lack of coordination among various government bodies that are currently responsible for post-excavation   work and thus reduce the time taken to return the roads to their original state.

 Currently, land-owning agencies, like the municipal corporations,   and PWD, repair roads on payment by bodies such as   or the power utilities that carry out diggings. This would now change, Delhi urban development minister Satyendar Jain announced at an informal briefing on Friday. He said that following lieutenant governor Anil Baijal’s approval of the revised  , whoever digs up the roads will now restore them too.
 
 The new policy also specifies that restoration will be carried out within 48 hours of the digging work being completed. “This policy will speed up the process of   repair after they are dug up and also make restoration cost effective. More than that, it will make life easy for people who face trouble because of delayed repairs,” said Jain.
 
 Under the new standard operating procedure, the agency planning to dig up the road will be required to submit a schedule for road restoration, besides timelines for road cutting after getting permission to carry out the digging. “During the road restoration, the project implementing agency will have to take care of the traffic congestion and security issues and after the completion of the project the agency will have to obtain a certificate for satisfactory completion of road restoration work. They will also have to provide necessary barricading and provide caution boards during the execution of the road repair,” a government circular said on Friday.
 
 Lack of coordination had till now led to roads lying unrepaired and so, waterlogged or unusable, for long periods. While the digging entities are required to pay the road maintaining bodies in advance for repairs, a civic body official said that frequently politicians intervene to thwart payment on the ground that such digging is required in the interest of the public. The official also disclosed that tendering for repairs is often delayed to include at least five restoration works together. “A significant amount of time is lost in just awarding the work to a contractor, who sometimes also take longer than stipulated to restore the roads,” the official said.
 
 One dug-up road was repaired after two years in Saraswati Vihar in  , pointed out the minister at Friday’s briefing. 
 
 “The road was dug up by Delhi Jal Board to lay water pipeline. Under the old policy, DJB paid the municipal corporation around Rs 1.5 crore to carry out the repairs. Some time was lost in this process, then inefficiency of the civic body led to the road remaining unrepaired for two years,” alleged Jain.
 
 Sources said that the state government faced a flood of complaints from residents of city colonies about unrepaired roads. This motivated it to come up with an alternative policy, which was formulated and sent to the LG for approval.
 
 
