With a spark in her eyes and child-like eagerness V Alamelu boarded the double decker bus parked at   for a ride on Friday. The 72-year-old said she had always wanted to travel in a double decker since childhood but never got an opportunity.

 “I have seen the bus in Kolkata and Mumbai, but circumstances never allowed me to travel in them. When I heard that the bus has been brought to the city, I took my grandson and came here,” she said. Alamelu was among the 200 other residents who enjoyed a ride in the 42-seater double decker bus brought from Mumbai to celebrate the 10th edition of Coimbatore  , which the city police commissioner, K Periaiah, and other senior officials inaugurated on Friday.
 
 Praveen  , learning and branding, Young Indians, said the double decker bus was brought to the city as they wanted to include the public in the event to make it inclusive in all the aspects. “The state has never had a double decker bus. So we wanted to give the city residents this experience as such buses are common in cities in the north and other countries,” Praveen said.
 
 The public were spoilt for choice as the first day of the Vizha featured a host events from short film festival to dance performances, food fest, French play, drawing competitions and storytelling workshop, to name a few. The seven-day event will see more than 140 programmes. And the organisers have collaborated with more than 100 educational institutions in the district to offer the public various entertainments every day.
 
 Talking about the Vizha, the organisers at Young Indians said every city has a day for the people to celebrate. “Ten years ago, Coimbatore did not have any such event that brought its people together. So we launched Vizha. Every resident here has abundant love for the city. So heritage walks, food fests and heritage trails were planned,” said Prasanna Krishna, chairman, Young Indians. Over the years, the event has grown bigger and larger.
 
 While well-known Carnatic singer T M Krishna enthralled music lovers at   institute of management on Friday, food exhibition titled Taste of Kovai catered to the taste buds of the residents. Featuring as many as 50 stalls, the food exhibition will continue for the next two days. “All the major restaurants and hoteliers have come together to bring the cuisines of the city under one roof at VOC Park,” said the organisers.
 
 The Vizha will also feature an art street titled   on Saturday and Sunday. This will see at least 60 artists displaying their art work on the Race Course scheme road from 11am till 7pm. Karaoke, music and snack stalls will also be set up on the street.
 
 Another attraction is the first ever open air movie fest. It will be organised at CODISSIA amphitheatre from Monday to Thursday at 6pm. Volunteers in collaboration with the city corporation, will also clean up three city bus stands as part of Clean Kovai, Green Kovai.
 
 
