NEW DELHI: Week-long strenuous efforts by future CJIs and other judges have failed to bridge the chasm between Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra and the four seniormost judges of the Supreme Court, with the CJI not agreeing to the 
  that he publicly acknowledged the grievances they had articulated at the unprecedented press conference last week. 

 Led by Justice Jasti Chelameswar, the "rebels", who include Justices Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B Lokur and  , met the CJI for the second time this week on Thursday to contain the damage the institution has suffered after they publicly vented their grievance against what they called serious irregularities on the SC's administrative side, especially assigning of politically sensitive cases to 'select benches' headed by 'junior judges'.
 
 The 10-minute meeting, held in presence of Justices A K Sikri, N V Ramana, U U Lalit and D Y  , saw the four telling the CJI to publicly acknowledge their grievances and make a statement that he would look into the grievances and set up a committee of judges to devise a mechanism for transparency in allocation of cases to benches. They did not, however, submit their demands in writing.
 
 Sources said the CJI reiterated his earlier statement that he would look into their grievances but remained disinclined to hold a press conference and publicly acknowledge their grouse. TOI learnt from sources that those present raised the issue of "everything getting leaked to the press" and said this would hinder any softening of stand on both sides. 
 
 
 
 
 They mentioned that the efforts being made to defuse the standoff as well as the details of deliberations were finding their way into the media. One of the four seniormost judges said even who was staying with whom (regional press reported about a certain politician staying with a senior judge immediately after the press conference), as well as the visit of a politician and a bureaucrat to judges’ residences were reported. One of the attendees observed that judges could not escape public glare once the issue was put out in public domain through a press conference. After the meeting, the CJI and other judges commenced their scheduled judicial business and heard cases listed before the benches headed by them. However, in the afternoon, Justice Chelameswar left Delhi, ending hopes of further meetings between the CJI and the four judges during the weekend.
 
 The outcome of the meeting was clear that the stalemate is not going to be over soon. The CJI is in no mood to call the media to publicly acknowledge the grievances aired by the four seniors as sources said it would amount to admitting that he was in the wrong. The CJI believes he strictly followed the beaten track in assigning cases and adhered to a recent five-judge Constitution bench ruling that the CJI was the master of the roster. How the demand for the CJI to hold a presser could play with other judges of the SC was not immediately clear, given that the judiciary has traditionally been loath to take internal matters to the public realm.
 
 “There was a time when judges spoke only through judgments. No one would have dared to park a van carrying live telecast equipment outside a judge’s residence earlier. But once judges made themselves available to the media, it gave journalists an opportunity to attempt sniffing out details of what is happening even within the innermost chambers of the judges,” a former judge said.
 
 
