AHMEDABAD: Himansu Patel, 36, wears many hats as management consultant, logistics, IT and ITeS expert in Germany. However, for the Gujarati community, he is known as one of the founders of   in Germany, which was formed in 2013. Before the Samaj, there were Gujarati organizations Germany, but the step worked as umbrella organization representing the ever-increasing number of Gujaratis in that country.

 A native of  , Patel’s first step towards Deutschland came in form of learning German in Pune after his graduation in Ahmedabad. Attracted towards the country, Patel went to Germany in 2002 for studies and completed his bachelors and masters there. He came back to India and worked in Bengaluru for a short period before heading back again when opportunity beckoned. 
 
 “The idea of setting up a Gujarati Samaj came to me in the year 2012 when two families had to relocate to India due to initial problems in settling down in Germany. Seven of us set up the organization and got it registered with the local authorities and Indian consulate. Today, the number of members is over 300. We are also helping set up Gujarati Samaj in other cities such as Munich,” said Patel, who is currently based in Frankfurt.
 
 The Gujarati Samaj of Germany is known for celebration of festivals such as   and Diwali in grand fashion. Patel says that in the year 2017, they asked all the members to at least get one German family to experience the cultural extravaganza. About 15 cities of Germany celebrate the festival. Friends of India, a group created by the consul general in Frankfurt as an umbrella organization for Indian societies. It also organizes cricket matches. Patel is convenor of the group.
 
 “One would be amazed to know that a professor in a Frankfurt university teaches about Gujarat and Gujarati. Last year, I also delivered a lecture on Sardar Patel on his birth anniversary. Majority of the community members own businesses or are associated with sectors such as IT as employees. They initially need hand-holding primarily due to language barrier and cultural differences but they have made their mark slowly but steadily,” says Patel.
 
 Patel was in Ahmedabad on Friday to talk about business opportunities in Germany for Gujarati enterprises and major sectors with chances of collaboration.
 
 
