BENGALURU: Jagadish, 60, turned out to be the hero of his village on Saturday after he saved a senior citizen from getting mauled by a hungry leopard.

 
 What is more riveting is the fact that Jagadish not only succeeded in holding back the leopard with a stick, but also managed to trap it inside the house. This story unfolded at Belikothanur village near Ramanagara, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, around Friday midnight.
 
 A sericulturist-cum-farmer, Jagadish owns a silkworm rearing shed adjacent to his house and had employed 75-year-old   to assist him. On Friday night, Thammaiah, who sleeps inside, had forgotten to latch the shed from inside and went to sleep. In the meantime, a leopard, which had strayed away from a nearby forest, sneaked inside the shed and tried to attack Thammaiah.
 
 Speaking to STOI, Jagadish said: “Thammaiah started screaming loudly out of pain. I ran towards the shed with a torch and a stick thinking that a bear or a snake must have entered the shed. I picked up Thammaiah and rushed out of the shed. While a bleeding Thammaiah was too shocked to respond, I didn’t have the time to go and seek help as I didn’t know what would come out of the door.”
 
 Mustering courage, Jagadish went inside the shed to ascertain what was in the shed. “I just froze in fear when I saw a leopard staring at me. I began to shiver, but it was a question of life and death for me. I knew the animal could bring me down with a single strike, but I chose not to give up. After staring at me for a few seconds the leopard roared and tried to advance towards me, but I poked it with my stick and pushed it back. Before the leopard could come to terms with what had happened, I ran out of the shed and locked it from outside.”
 
 Subsequently, fellow villagers were alerted and forest department personnel were informed. Thammaiah, who had suffered injuries on the head and the arm, was shifted to Kanakapura government hospital. The senior citizen is said to be out of danger.
 
 On Saturday morning, villagers rushed to the shed to take a look at the leopard holed up inside. In fact, a youth was injured by the leopard when he tried to peep inside through a window. Forest department officials from Bannerghatta National Park arrived at the spot, tranquilised the animal and captured it.
 
 
