GURUGRAM: The National Highways Authority of India ( ) has written to the district administration, asking for the forest department’s clearance for a toll plaza at Sehrawan. The   is supposed to be shifted to Sehrawan, around 15km down NH-8.

 Residents of villages in Sehrawan and environmental activists have been opposing the construction of the toll plaza at the proposed site, claiming it is a wildlife corridor. They claim wild animals from the Aravalis often pass through the stretch. Chetan Agarwal, environment analyst, said, “Sehrawan is a live corridor for animals. The administration should look into this matter seriously, before giving a clearance. Seven years ago, a leopard died while crossing the Sehrawan road. We shouldn’t encroach upon their territory.”
 
 The district administration said they have received a letter from NHAI, seeking the clearance for the land. Vinay Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner, said, “We are going to check the land before giving the clearance.” Howver, some city residents feel the administration should hear what the environmentalists are saying. “NHAI has written to the district administration. But is anyone hearing the views of the environmentalists? The administration should speak to them and bring them on the table,” said Gauri Sarin from NGO Gurgaon Action Plan. R P Balwan, former forest conservator, Gurgaon, said, “Sehrawan is not the right place for the toll plaza. NHAI has zeroed in on this place to make it a commercial hub. But this area should be reserved for animals.” Meanwhile, chief conservator of forest (wildlife) G K Ahuja said, “If NHAI applies for   on our portal, we will think over it. Now, the portal is closed for three days for maintenance work. We will know if they have applied for the clearance on Tuesday.” The NHAI officials said they would not directly apply to the   as they wanted the other clearances, along with the forest clearance, from the district administration. After getting the clearance, the toll plaza could be made in three months, said the NHAI officials. 
 
 S Raghuraman, CEO of expressway concessionaire MCEPL, said, “Why shift it to Sehrawan - an ecologically fragile site? I don’t think a forest clearance should be given.”
 
 
