Barcelona: 2018 is all about the camera. MWC 2018, the annual congregation of global telcos has seen several companies launch new phones/devices and display their technologies. 

 However, when it comes to the smartphone, most companies have centred their attention around camera and AI in a bid to grab the attention of the social media generation.
 
 On Sunday, Samsung released its flagship Galaxy S9 and S9+ which saw a dual aperture camera featured for the first time in a smartphone. The phone saw specs broadly unchanged from its predecessor S8 except for superior camera linked features. Similar to Apple’s Animojis, the S9 and S9+ offer AR emojis which allow users to create 3D avatars and use these as part of the keyboard. The phones also support super slow mo which can track exactly when the movement happens to capture it in slow mo. With its intelligent platform, the S9 series support live translation and more. For instance, once pointed at a dish, the s9 camera can show calories and other details of the dish. Other mobile cos have been quick to jump the bandwagon and launch new phones or update their existing phones with AI cameras. For instance, LG launched a revamped V30s ThinQ at MWC which has an AI camera which can recognise an object and offer best shooting modes from 8 presets which include factors like colour, angle, reflection, lighting etc. The phone also offers QLens which taps into image recognition to help improve online shopping – scanning QR codes will serve up information about the cheapest availability, while image searches offer detailed information on tourist spots, or provide similar photos of food, fashion and celebrities. Japanese mobile manufacturing company Sony unveiled Xperia XZ2 at MWC. The company has added 3D Creator's scanning capabilities to the front-facing camera so users can create three-dimensional selfies that can be uploaded to Facebook and used for avatar creation. With cameras, telcos have realised that it isn’t just selfies or regular photos that users are looking for. Photos in low light, multiple modes, shopping assistance, live translation and information - cameras are being equipped with everything there is to know. DJ Koh, president and head of IT & mobile communications division, Samsung Electronics said,“We have reimagined the smartphone camera. Not only do the new phones enable consumers to shoot great photos and videos anywhere, it’s a smartphone that’s designed to help them connect to others and express themselves in a way that’s unique and personal to them.”
 
 (The writer is in Barcelona at the invitation of Samsung) 
 
 
