KOCHI: The world turned dark for   when a land mine went off near his home at  , southwestern  . 

 Six months after the blast that had blinded and severed the 21-year-old man's both arms, he saw his mother in a hospital in faraway Kochi.
 
 A corneal transplant past, Hussein has regained almost 90% in his left eye. He is now waiting for a hand transplant at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences.
 
 Hussein stepped on the land mine while walking on a street near his home in Taiz, which had witnessed a fierce battle between the Houthis and forces loyal to Abd Rabbah Mansur Hadi.
 
 Though he was rushed to a hospital there, doctors ruled out the possibility of him regaining his vision.
 
 "I consider myself very lucky to be alive. I also thank God and doctors for restoring my vision. Family and friends were my main source of strength and support during the difficult times," said Hussein, who was studying in Class 11 in a madrassa in September 2017, when the incident happened. "I always dreamt of becoming an engineer but now I want to become a doctor and transform the lives of people," said Hussein, who considers this to be his second birth.
 
 "We never thought that our son will be able to regain his vision as most doctors stated that there is not even one per cent chance of recovery or miracle in his case. Since his two hands were amputated following the blast, our priority was to get a hand transplant," Hussein's father Ahamad Mohammad, a government school teacher, said.
 
 They brought Hussein to the hospital in December 2017. Doctors told the family that he should regain vision first so that he could be trained to use his new arm.
 
 A team of doctors led by Dr Anil Radhakrishnan, consultant (cornea and refractive surgery), and Dr Gopal S Pillai, head of the department of ophthalmology carried out the corneal transplant two months ago.
 
 "Hussein's right eye is beyond recovery as tissues behind his lens are badly damaged and the eye has shrunk in size. We focused on the left eye. We reconstructed the shattered eye tissues and conducted corneal transplant," said Dr Radhakrishnan.
 
 
