GREATER NOIDA:   R N Choubey, along with members from Airports Authority of India (AAI), inspected the sanctioned international airport project site near Jewar on Tuesday and reviewed the progress of the project. He directed the officials of YEIDA, UP’s nodal agency for the airport project “to adhere to time-lines in putting the project on track and to adopt the best practises to prepare the global bid documents to hire a competent concessionaire to develop the airport”.

 Speaking to TOI, Arun Vir Singh, CEO of YEIDA, said that the meeting was attended by the joint secretary of civil aviation ministry, team of senior officials from AAI and officials from Pricewaterhousecoopers (PCW), the agency preparing the techno economic feasibility report (TEFR). 
 
 “A detailed presentation of the project was delivered in front of the officials,” Singh said. “All obstacles and road blocks were discussed. The focus of the secretary was to enhance connectivity to the sanctioned airport. He directed that all the existing connectivity be viewed and new access routes and modes of transport be put into place to make the project a successful venture,” the CEO explained.
 
 Satisfied with the preparation of the project so far, Choubey further directed the YEIDA officials to plan for the best airport in the country. “He discussed the runway positioning, planned aeronautical activity, Master Plan area, land acquisition, etc. He also directed us to study the best practises being adopted across the world so that a foolproof bid document can be prepared without any wastage of time to hire a world class concessionaire,” Singh said.
 
 As per Prabhat Kumar, chairman, YEIDA, who also holds the position of divisional commissioner of Meerut, a global agency to build the sanctioned airport will be appointed in July. 
 
 This was informed to UP chief secretary Rajive Kumar about a week ago after the senior bureaucrat reviewed the progress of the project. If all goes as per plan, the foundation of the project is likely to be laid in 2018.
 
 Presently PCW is preparing the TEFR, which should be completed by March 2018. PCW will also prepare the bid documents to appoint a concessionaire for the project besides finalising its Master Plan and financial model that will be adopted.
 
 
