NEW DELHI:   ended the league stage with a comfortable five-wicket victory over   at the Maharashtra Cricket Association Stadium in Pune on Sunday. The result benefitted   as the former champions booked the fourth and final spot in the playoffs. 

 
 
 
 Kings XI, who needed to win by at least 53 runs to qualify for the next stage, ended their campaign with eighth defeat to finish at lowly seventh in the standings. While   finished second in the table and will play table-toppers Sunrisers Hyderabad in Qualifier 1 at the Wankhede stadium in Mumbai on Tuesday.
 
 Royals will now face Kolkata Knight Riders in Eliminator at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 
 CSK chased down the competitive 154-run target in 19.1 overs with five wickets in hand.   remained unbeaten on 61 off 48 balls, which included two sixes and four fours, while skipper  , who finished off the chase with a six, scored 16 not out in his 7-ball cameo. 
 
 CSK though had a terrible start to their run chase as they lost their top-scorer Ambati Rayudu (1) in the second over to Mohit Sharma. 
 
 Two overs later, the situation became more dire for CSK as pacer Ankit Rajpoot (2/19) struck twice in two balls to dismiss Faf du Plessis (14) and Sam Billings. Gayle took a superb catch at first slip to send the South African back and in the next delivery Rajpoot clean bowled Billings for a duck.
 
 Not only Rajpoot gave CSK a double-blow, he conceded nothing in the over to reduce the hosts to 27/3 in five overs. 
 
 Harbhajan Singh (19) and Raina stopped the rut and slowly took CSK to 50-run mark in 8.4 overs. But when they looked good to increase the tempo after adding 31 runs in 5.3 overs, Kings XI skipper Ravichandran Ashwin (2/36) struck with his first ball to dismiss Harbhajan in the 11th over. CSK were 58/4 in 10.1 overs at that stage and needed 96 more off 59 balls.
 
 Raina held the fort from one end, but scoring became tougher with each passing over as boundaries dried up. In fact, CSK failed to score a single boundary during the six-over period of 8-14.
 
 Needing 73 off 36 balls,   smacked back-to-back sixes off Ashwin to score 21 runs in the over. Chahar hit another maximum off Axar Patel in the next over to make the equation a gettable 40 off final four overs.
 
 But Ashwin came back and struck in the first ball of 17th over to dismiss dangerous Chahar, who smashed three sixes and a four in his 20-ball 39. More importantly, Chahar added a valuable 56 runs for the fifth wicket with Raina. 
 
 Dhoni joined Raina in the middle and the two veterans took CSK home in 19.1 overs without much fuss.
 
 Earlier, young paceman   took four wickets for just 10 runs but Karun Nair hit a timely half-century to help Kings XI recover from a top-order collapse and post 153.
 
 When Kings XI batsmen needed to fire in unison, only Nair showed stomach for fight with his 26-ball 54 knock, which was laced with three fours and five sixes.
 
 It was Ngidi who triggered the collapse as he swung the ball both ways to confound the Kings batsmen. In his sensational three-over spell, Ngidi conceded just seven runs and scalped both the openers. He first had dangerous Chris Gayle (0) caught behind and then bowled other opener KL Rahul with a peach of delivery that swung in and sent the stump kart-wheeling.
 
 Chahar had Aaron Finch (4) caught by Raina as Kings XI managed only 29/3 in the Powerplay overs.
 
 David Miller (24) and Manish Tiwary (35) repaired the innings with a 60-run partnership before left-arm spinner Ravindra Jadeja broke the stand by dismissing the latter.
 
 Miller too did not last long after the departure of Tiwary as he was undone by a well-executed yorker by West Indian Dwayne Bravo. The Miller wicket meant that Kings XI were reeling at 80/5 in 12.1 overs.
 
 A small partnership developed between Axar Patel (14) and Nair but Sam Billings pulled off a stunning diving catch to get rid of the left-hander. Still, Kings XI got 18 runs from that Shardul Thakur over with Nair hitting a six and two fours.
 
 Ngidi returned to the attack and saw the back of rival captain R Ashwin (0), nicking the ball to his counterpart MS Dhoni behind the wickets. Kings XI could not even bat for full 20 overs and were bowled out in 19.4 overs. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
