KOLKATA: The city had its brush with the first nor’wester of the season on Sunday. The thunderstorm hit the city at a speed of 85km per hour. The gust accompanied by rain, thunder and lightning will keep the mercury under check, said weathermen. The maximum temperature for the past few days stood below the normal mark. “Sunday evening’s nor’wester will ensure a pleasant weather condition in the next few days,” said a Met official.

 A squall can be qualified as a nor’wester if it has a speed of at least 45-50kmph and maintains the same wind speed for at least a minute after hitting a region.
 
 “The observatory at   recorded a maximum wind speed of 85kmph blowing in from the northwesterly direction. It also maintained this speed at least for a minute after hitting Kolkata. The thunderstorm that came from the   plateau fulfilled all other criteria for it to be categorized as a nor’wester. So Sunday’s was the first nor’wester of the season,” said G K Das, director (weather) at  . 
  
 
 A cyclonic circulation over Madhya Pradesh had pushed up cloud formation. This cloud mass travelled all the way towards the city and other southern districts, forming a squall line.
 
 The cloud mass extending about 300km from Birbhum to   with a height of about 12km inched towards the city. “The cloud mass was very low on Sunday. The gusty winds accelerated its movement, ultimately triggering the nor’wester,” said Das.
 
 On Saturday, the cloud mass extending over100km with a height of 18km did not reach Kolkata. With a wind speed of 52 kmph, the core of the cloud mass could only hit the southern tip of the city. But on Sunday, the cloud mass reached Kolkata, bringing in the much-awaited thunderstorm.
 
 Around 6.30pm on Sunday, the Alipore Met office issued a warning for a thundersquall in Kolkata and neighbouring districts by 9.30pm. Within an hour, the nor’wester hit the city. The squall originating from Jharkhand reached the city at a speed of only 22kmph, but it accelerated to 85kmph by 7.27pm.
 
 Traffic movement slowed down in many parts of the city. Trees were also uprooted in some major stretches.
 
