In the upcoming film  , which is touted to be a reverse take on Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s novel ' ', director Sudhir Mishra has added his touch to the classic and given it a different spin. The film is the quintessential story of Dev, Paro and Chandramukhi. However, in Mishra’s story, Dev rises above his addictions and his addictions are not just restricted to alcohol, but also include power and the dynastic ambitions of his family. Paro loosens her shackles and takes on Dev; she breaks the gates of her husband’s home and meets Dev on an equal footing in a political arena. Chandni, as flawed as Chandramukhi in her all-consuming love for Dev, enables him to rise above his weaknesses.

 
 
 
 Though the director has given his own interpretation to the characters, the film retains the novel’s basic structure and premise, and also has Shakespearean influences. Mishra says that this happened organically, as he sat down to work on the story and let the Bard take over. He believes that Shakespeare meeting Sarat Chandra has stretched the canvas of the film, and brought it to one focal point, which is power and no one has a better understanding of power than the Bard himself. The element of power has been captured in the film’s political background and its characters. Power is viewed as an addiction in Daas Dev and the story showcases how it impacts interpersonal relationships.
 Sudhir Mishra’s political background and his understanding of the fierce power play in politics enabled him to take the kitchen politics of Devdas to the big screen. He has set his film against the fiercely turbulent political backdrop of Uttar Pradesh, making it and its characters far more relevant today.
 
 
 
 
 In the film, the women — whether it’s the leading lady or the girl next door — assume a strong character. Both Paro and Chandni are strong women in their own rights. Their love for Dev is what drives the plot, yet their individuality transcends the classic romanticism of Devdas and puts it in present day 2018. They love Dev, yet stand up for themselves and even confront him when required.
 
 
 
 
 Industry insiders who have watched the film, are impressed not only because of Sudhir Mishra’s different take on the story, but also because of the ensemble cast —   plays Dev,   is Paro and   plays Chandni. The rest of the cast includes Saurabh Shukhla, in one of the most complex roles of his career, Vipin Sharma, Dalip Tahil, Deep Raj Rana, Anil Sharma and Sohaila Kapoor. Anurag Kashyap and Vineet Singh will also be seen in special appearances.
 
 
 
 
 Multiple composers, lyricists and singers have come together to create the film’s music album. Composers like Arko Mukherjee, Vipin Patwa, Sandesh Shandilya, Anupama Raag and Shamir Tandon have incorporated the vocal prowess of singers such as Swanand Kirkire, Atif Aslam, Navraj Hans, Rekha Bhardwaj, Javed Bashir, Shraddha Mishra, Papon and Krishna Beura in the songs. The lyrics are by Bulle Shah and Faiz Ahmed Faiz. Dr Sagar, Gaurav Solanki, Deepak Ramola, Sameer Anjan, Arko Mukherjee and Munir Niazi have given an apt expression to Mishra’s long-standing love affair with poetry. The album is a blend of poetic mastery and soul-touching melody.
 
 'Daas Dev', produced by Sanjeev Kumar of Saptarishi Cinevision and presented by Gaurav Sharma of Storm Pictures, releases worldwide on April 20.
 
 
 
 
 
