Year on year, one of the biggest concerns for CBSE students is losing out seats in arts and science colleges to state board peers who usually end up getting results earlier. This year, however, there is good news for CBSE students with some colleges in the city still in the process of putting out the first selection list and strengthening their belief the have a fair chance of getting into the institution of their choice.

 “This time, CBSE students have a greater advantage when compared to last year. The first list will be out on May 29 for our   and this gives enough time for both CBSE and state board students to be considered on the basis of merit,” said Anthony Samy, faculty member at Loyola College. The fact that the result dates between the two boards were closer this time had also helped matters, he added.
 
 This year, the CBSE results were out within 10 days of the state board Class XII results compared to the previous year when there was a gap of nearly 18 days, making more seats available for a larger section of students from both boards.
 
 New College too is putting out its first selection list on May 29. “Since we were expecting the CBSE results to be declared on May 28, we were waiting to give students from state board and CBSE a fair shot. Now that the results are out earlier than expected, we will be putting out a combined list on Tuesday,” said principal Major Zahid Hussain. While MOP Vaishnav and Stella Maris have released first selection lists, faculty members said there were enough seats for CBSE students to apply.
 
 Experts say top arts and science colleges in the city earmark nearly 10% of the seats for CBSE and other board students but students appear to be thinking two steps ahead, with many applying to colleges outside the city. Gautami Potulwar of Chettinad Vidyashram who scored 84% said the 10-day gap gave them less time to apply for colleges and therefore was a disadvantage. “I would feel comfortable if colleges could give provisional admissions provided a certain score is secured, failing which the admission could be rejected,” said Potulwar, who has applied to Christ University in Bengaluru as she felt it had an easier admission process. Vinaya Ramaswamy, who scored 82%, has applied to colleges in Bengaluru and Pune.
 
 “I’ve applied to colleges in other cities as well, although my preference is Chennai since there is pressure for courses which are in demand. Students had rushed to apply to colleges such as MOP, Stella, Women’s Christian College and Madras Christian College as soon as the results came out since the admissions for these courses are fast moving,” she added.
 
 
