BENGALURU: An 11-year-old   when sparks from a  , which runs close to their first-floor residence in   and is connected to a  , fell on her on Saturday night. The girl is being treated at   and is out of danger.

 Police said the incident occurred at 9.30pm when Rekha Raj, daughter of Indra Raj, an autorickshaw driver, had gone out to the balcony of their first-floor residence in Mahaganapati Nagar, Basaveshwaranagar. Rekha, a Class VII student in a private school, suffered burns on her face, abdomen and thighs.
 
 
 Rekha’s mother Chandrakala said there was a power cut in the area. Rekha was having dinner by candlelight. She had asked her father to buy her some snacks from a nearby bakery to finish her dinner and her father had agreed. Chandrakala, a homemaker, was out visiting a temple at that time.
 
 Wondering why her father was taking so long, Rekha had gone out to the balcony to call out to him. Just as she leaned out on the balcony railing, the power returned. Almost simultaneously, a loud sound appeared to come from the transformer a few feet from their home. Rekha was peeking over to see what it was all about when the wire allegedly shorted. Sparks flew and some of them fell on Rekha. The girl screamed in pain and fell writhing on the floor. Her father and neighbours came rushing to her rescue. She was immediately taken to a nearby hospital and later shifted to Victoria Hospital.
 
 Basaveshwaranagar police visited the spot and also the hospital. A case has been registered and investigation is on.
 
 “My daughter suffered burns on her face, stomach and thighs,” Chandrakala said. “Doctors told us that she is responding to treatment and that they are putting in their best efforts.” She blamed the Bescom for negligence.
 
 T H M Kumar, incharge managing director, Bescom, who is also handling Mangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited, promised stern action “if something is amiss” and said “compensation as permissible under the law” will be provided.
 
 “Members from the electrical inspectorate visited the spot on Sunday evening and they will submit a report on Monday,” Kumar said.
 
 “Until then we cannot comment on what the cause might have been. There was a line trip in the area and we believe there may have been some sparks during the recharging process. But we cannot state a definite cause until the report is out. Our engineers also visited the child in the hospital and spoke to the parents,”he added.
 
 
  
 
 
 
