NAGPUR: After a week full of intense competitions and hustle-bustle behind the scenes, it was the turn of aspiring comedians to create a relaxed atmosphere on the concluding day of ‘Athena Fest’ organized by   College, in association with The Times of India, on Monday. 

 With stand-up comedy being a big hit among the millennials, Hislopians thought of introducing it in  . For youths who are otherwise glued to social media for entertainment, it was a treat to watch local talent perform in a live show.
 
 The participants belonged to different age groups and even Std IX students displayed their skills to compete with undergraduate ones. The five minute performance was judged on the basis of originality of the script and the connection the act made with the crowd. 
 
  from Std XI bagged the first prize for his hilarious act. In order to develop rapport with the audience, most of them shared their personal experiences laden with funny descriptions about their school and hostel life.
 
 “It is an art to keep the audience engaged, build a connect with them and win their hearts,” said   who stood second in the competition. 
 
 Vijayan evoke laughter by talking about the differences between Mumbaikars and Nagpurians. Hailing from Mumbai, he presented his story about discovering the city with hard-hitting punch lines. He compared the lifestyle in Nagpur with Mumbai in a way that tickled the funny bones. 
 
 The event was followed by the prize distribution ceremony wherein winners of all the 10 competitions were felicitated by management guru Suman Tekade. Convener Lovely Menachery, faculty members Supantha Bhattacharyya and Shirin Badar were also present. 
 
 Student president   said, “Respecting one’s own talent is the most important thing that the contestants learnt here and the large number of entries indicates that we have touched and influenced many lives.” 
 
 Hailed as the ‘Hislopian version of Captain Cool MS Dhoni’, Gede received a thunderous applause while he thanked his teachers and team for their support in taking Athena to greater heights.
 
 Pursing masters in arts, national-level debater   said that cut-throat competition, valuable inputs and creativity shown by participants made Athena an enriching experience. Winner for LitMasters, Harsh Mahatme believed that it was a litmus test for the contestants to know where they stand and improve themselves. 
 
 
