NAGPUR: Concerned over lax implementation of   by many states, the   (CPCB) will be reviewing steps taken by the authorities to comply with environmental norms.

 CPCB, a statutory organization under the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC), is convening a meeting of around 24 states on January 23 in New Delhi. Expected to be chaired by the board’s chairman SP  , the meeting aims at individual assessment of states. 
 
 “We have called the state urban departments, pollution control boards and municipal bodies. The states have been segregated and divided into groups,” said Sunil Nigam, a scientist at CPCB.
 
 Apart from assessing waste management problems of different states, CPCB also plans to take recommendations from all the bodies. “We want to know the steps taken by states to implement the National Green Tribunal’s directions on municipal solid waste,” added Nigam.
 
 While hearing the petition filed by Almitra Patel seeking directions on effective management of solid waste in India, the NGT principal bench had stated that top officials of state governments and municipal bodies will be liable for prosecution if they violate the rules and orders of the tribunal.
 
 According to the board officials, scientific dumping of municipal solid waste is still not being done in many places. “Scientific landfill site is the best way of managing waste. Only 5% of the municipal solid waste should reach the site, rest all can be utilized but urban bodies are not taking the required initiatives. Dumping of waste is illegal,” said Nigam. 
 
 Fires at garbage dump yards continue to be a common problem in urban cities. “We are taking the issue very seriously and have recommended local bodies to use foam slurry on surroundings of landfill site to control fire outbreaks,” said Nigam.
 
 Dump yard fires are caused due to release of methane gas during the decomposition of organic waste. “Apart from it, burning of unsegregated garbage including paper, plastic, heavy metals and other materials releases toxic fumes,” added Nigam. 
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, burning of waste not just causes large-scale air pollution but is a life hazard too. Burning of some materials, like plastic, emits toxic gases like dioxins and furans which are believed to cause cancer. Even the National Air Quality Index of MoEF&CC warns about severe impact of increasing particulate matter levels on public health and mentions a strong correlation between ambient PM concentrations and increase in mortality and hospitalizations due to respiratory diseases.
 
 
