KOLKATA: The   has moved the   against the Calcutta High Court’s order allowing nominations mailed to the commission within April 23.   officials held that the move four days ahead of the announced poll date of May 14 won’t come in the way of holding the polls, because for the disputed seats — for which candidates have filed e-nominations — the commission wants to wait till the apex court hears out the case.

 
  and   have also filed caveats in the apex court so that the court hears them before passing orders.
 
 Going ahead with the May 14 poll date, the commission allowed people on election duty to cast their votes in at least three districts — West Midnapore, Jhargram and Nadia — on Wednesday against the “Election Duty Certificate” (EDC) issued to them.
 
 Attempts by a “desperate” SEC to stall the mailed nominations on the ground that the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 2003, doesn’t provide for such “e-filing” have come under criticism from the opposition parties. “The State Election Commission and the state government have been acting against court orders. The commission did it before by taking back the four-hour window it gave to candidates unable to file their nominations despite the Supreme Court directive on April 9. And this time the commission challenged the high court order on the eve of the elections,” said CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra. Mishra complained that there is no let-up in violence and threat even against people on election duty. “A school teacher on election duty at Nadia’s Hanskhali came under attack from Trinamool-backed miscreants when he went to facilitation centre to cast his vote,” the CPM state secretary said.
 
 BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said: “The SEC is acting as a front of the state government. The government is trying to monopolise the powers vested in the commission.” The SEC in its special leave petition cited Section 46 of the Act and held that the high court order is “bad in law”.
 
 A division bench of Justice Biswanath Somadder and Justice Arindam Mukherjee, while allowing mailed nominations on Tuesday, held that the SEC being a constitutional body should provide for e-filing because it prevents large scale violence in the run up to the rural polls leading to bloodshed and loss of human lives. “The SEC though should have allowed the intending candidates to file their nominations through e-filing, refused to accept them,” the court held.
 
 While lawyers went into a debate on whether the SEC should accept only the 62 Left nominations about which the SEC counsel told the court or should it accept all the mailed nominations sent to DMs, SDOs and BDOs, alleged ruling party toughs reportedly reached out to the CPM candidates who had mailed their nominations and put pressure on them to withdraw. “Trinamool toughs escorted by the local police raided the houses of all CPM candidates under Naskarpur gram panchayat under Budge Budge II of Satgachhia assembly constituency and threatened those who mailed their nominations to the returning officer. They ransacked the houses of those who refused to withdraw. The local police inspector didn’t take our calls,” said CPM South 24 Parganas district secretary Shamik Lahiri.
 
 
