LUCKNOW: In a fresh incident, two more children, a boy and a girl, were attacked and severely injured by dogs in   district. The girl was referred to KGMU Trauma Centre and was scheduled to undergo surgery on late Thursday night as her condition is stated to be critical. 

 The attack exposed the chinks in the claims of district administration and police of taking all steps to prevent any further incident. DM Sitapur, however, claimed that the animal behavioural experts and forest officials have identified the dogs attacking children. 
 
 Chief minister   is slated to visit Khairabad in Sitapur, which has witnessed the maximum number of attacks, on Friday. 
 
 
 
 
 Sitapur deaths: new attacks expose chinks in admin plan
 
 Abhishek (7) was attacked by dogs in Machhrehta village on Wednesday night, while Sangeeta (9) of Khairabad was attacked around 7am on Thursday. Sangeeta was referred to KGMU Trauma Centre where doctors said that she wound undergo a surgery late on Thursday night as her condition is critical. Speaking to TOI, Sangeeta said, "A pack of four white dogs having black spots attacked me." 
 
 Till now, 23 children have been injured by dogs in Sitapur district since November 2017.
 
 Injured Abhishek's father, Shiv Narayan, said that his son was irrigating the fields on late Wednesday evening along with his grandfather. "Suddenly a pack of three dogs came and attacked him from behind, injuring him in the neck," he said.
 
 Till the time, Abhishek's grandfather could understand anything they had injured the boy badly. Luckily, some villagers rushed to help on hearing the noise and chased the dogs away. Abhishek was admitted to Sitapur district hospital where his condition is stable. Forest officials and police were informed about the incident. 
 
 Sangeeta's father Ashok said that she had gone to mango orchard in the morning when dogs attacked her. Villagers rushed to save her on hearing her screams and saved her.
 
 She was rushed to the district hospital where doctors provided her primary treatment and referred her to KGMU. KGMU Trauma Centre in charge Dr Sandeep Tewari told TOI that Sangeeta has injuries on stomach and thighs. 
 
 DM Sitapur Sheetal Verma meanwhile said that animal behaviour expert and forest officials have identified the pack of dogs responsible for attacking children. "We are sure that the menace will end soon," she said.
 
