MUMBAI:   CEO   sprang a surprise following the bank’s board meeting on Monday. She announced a fourth quarter net profit of Rs 1,020 crore — 50 per cent lower than last year and the lowest in two years — but in line with market expectations.

 
 Her ‘2020’ strategy for the bank surprised many as her term expires in March 2019 and she continues to be dogged by a controversy over loans to defaulting borrower  , which had a business relationship with her husband.
 
 Though she ducked questions about Videocon, her elaborate plans appear to be designed to quell speculation about her tenure. The meeting was skipped by government nominee Lok Rajan and V K Sharma, chairman of LIC, the bank’s largest shareholder.
 
 
 
 
 The financial results meeting will be followed by another board discussion on Tuesday to discuss strategy. Kochhar said this is an annual event to discuss budget, planning and strategy for the year ahead.
 
 The results were announced post market hours. The ICICI Bank ADR was up 3.72 per cent in the New York Stock Exchange following the results at around 9pm Indian time. The profits were better than what was forecast by a Reuters poll in terms of which the bank was seen to be posting a net profit of Rs 955.7 crore. It was however marginally lower than a Bloomberg brokers’ consensus estimate of Rs 1,061crore.
 
 The bank managed to report a profit despite an additional Rs 15,737 crore loans slipping into the non-performing category. However, the sale of part of its stake in ICICI Securities helped to shore up earnings. The new NPAs include Rs 10,000 crore worth of loans that were restructured earlier but are now required to be reclassified following new norms by RBI in February.
 
 Kochhar took a defiant stance on the conflict of interest issue and refused to comment despite repeated requests, saying the board had already clarified the matter. She sought to highlight the fact that the bank was unaffected by the controversy by pointing out that the bank had added Rs 29,200 crore of current and savings account deposits and that fee income was the highest in four years.
 
 Under the new strategy, she said, the bank would bring down its corporate loans to 40 per cent of total loans and reduce exposure to large corporates. She said that the bank would bring down its non-performing assets to 1.5 per cent and the provision coverage for bad loans to 79 per cent.
 
 In a reference to the   case, the bank said that it has made provisions of Rs 795 crore in respect of fraud by three borrower accounts in the gems and jewellery segment. Of this, Rs 290 crore was made from income while another Rs 505 crore was done by debiting reserves and surplus. Debiting reserves prevents provisions from impacting profits but reduces the bank’s capital adequacy.
 
