PATNA: The ever-increasing craze for pursuing BEd course in   can be gauged from the fact that as many as 21,000 men and women have applied for the combined entrance test within three days of the commencement of online submission of forms. The last date for submission of forms is June 19.

 
 For the first time, at the instance of governor-cum-chancellor Satya Pal Malik, a combined entrance test is being conducted for admission to all the teachers’ training colleges in the state. Nalanda Open University (NOU) has been assigned the task of conducting the maiden entrance test scheduled for July 15, said NOU registrar and state nodal officer of the entrance test, S P Sinha.
 
 As many as six minority training colleges had earlier sought exemption from the entrance test, but the chancellor turned down their request. No training college, whether private, minority or government institution, would be granted exemption from the combined entrance test for BEd course, said Sinha.
 
 Interestingly, Patna Women’s College (PWC), a constituent unit of Patna University, had made all arrangements for conducting the entrance test on its own for BEd course. But, the chancellor’s secretariat has not reportedly approved of the PWC’s action in holding entrance test separately. PWC may have to join the common pool for   being conducted by NOU, said sources.
 
 In the meantime, PU authorities have been trying their best to get the recognition of its two constituent teachers’ training colleges restored at the earliest so that the successful candidates of combined   test may be admitted to both these colleges.
 
 The BEd course in 110-year-old Patna Training College and 67-year-old Women’s Training College was derecognized by the National Council of Teacher Education ( ) last year as they did not have the required number of teachers. Even though all the sanctioned vacant posts in both these colleges have already been advertised by the   way back in 2013, the appointments are yet to be finalized, said PU education faculty dean Khagendra Kumar.
 
 PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh has, of late, sought permission from the chancellor as well as the state government to appoint 15 teachers in each of the two colleges on temporary basis so that recognition may be restored by the NCTE. Advertisement for these temporary appointments have already been made in newspapers and on PU website and interviews for selection of 30 teachers scheduled for June 20. Both these colleges have 100 seats each in BEd course, said the VC.
 
 
