NAGPUR: Widening of Kelibagh Road, the vital link connecting Central Nagpur with South Nagpur and Bhandara Road in Mahal, is entangled in administrative hassles with shopkeepers and affected residents demanding monetary compensation.

 The main market of Mahal is situated on both sides of Kelibagh Road. Due to its narrow width, traffic congestion has compounded. On March 29, 2008, the general body of   ( ) approved widening of Kelibagh Road from Central Avenue passing through Badkas Square, and police station and ending at CP & Berar College.
 
 As per the requirement, NMC will acquire around 1455.82 sqm land for widening the 1.5km patch from 15m to 24m. Apart from individual property owners, many affected portions of the land are owned by NMC, state government and Matru Seva Sangh Hospital.
 
 Though NMC has already issued demolition notices to 157 shopkeepers and 50 residential property owners, it has to provide compensation to the affected people.
 
 As part of the land acquisition rules, NMC has started interacting with them. “We have offered either   or FSI as compensation to the land owners,” said a senior official from NMC. But, they want monetary compensation.
 
 NMC is supposed to widen and concretize the road either under Phase-II or Phase-III projects. To acquire the land, NMC will have to provide twice the market rate (as per ready reckoner rates) as monetary compensation to the affected people. Accordingly, the financial burden of the civic body will rise by almost Rs100 crore, the official said. 
 
 Hence, NMC is keen to acquire land by issuing Transferable Development Rights (TDR) certificates instead of providing compensation based on market rates.
 
 Shopkeepers have refused the NMC’s offer. They said TDR is worthless and are dead set against handing over their land for anything less than monetary compensation. “We are not against road widening. All we want is compensation. We don’t want TDR,” they said.
 
 Officials from Gandhibagh zone said so far, the office has received around 70 letters from affected shopkeepers and residents. “All of them are demanding monetary compensation,” he said.
 
 Moreshwar Phalnikar, a shop owner, said, “The road is wide enough to handle day-to-day traffic. But it’s narrowed due to illegal vendors. Instead of widening, there are also other options. Though it’s a no-hawking zone, vendors can still be spotted occupying a huge portion of the road. NMC should ensure no hawkers there, while the traffic police should declare the road one-way. If these two measures are taken, there is no need to widen the road.”
 
 “We are suffering a lot. People are also affected as they get stuck in traffic jams for hours due to bottlenecks,” he added.
 
 The officer, however, said the civic body has already started razing its six properties, including a portion of the Gandhibagh zone premises.
 
 
