HYDERABAD: On-the-run HMDA director (planning) K   was GHMC additional chief city planner in July 2009, when he was arrested in a disproportionate assets case and suspended for four months. He was reinstated in November 2009. In 2012, the government of united Andhra Pradesh further watered down charges against him which finally led to closure of the case.

 A second corruption case against the same official within a nine-year span indicates how successive state governments have turned the ACB’s work into a joke and encouraged corruption among government servants.
 
 In 2009, Purushotham Reddy, 56, who was then additional chief city planner of GHMC was arrested in a disproportionate assets (DA) case and searches at his properties led to unearthing of assets of Rs 3.7 crore, including a house at   in  , a building at Serlingampally, an industrial shed at Moosapet, commercial space at Ameerpet, three plots at Moosapet, Miyapur, Chandanagar, part of a house at Khanamet in Serilingampally, 24 acre agriculture lands at different places in outskirts of Hyderabad, a   car, Rs 15.76 lakh worth gold ornaments, Rs 6.4 lakh bank balance and Rs15.6 lakh in cash. The anti-corruption bureau recommended prosecution of the official, but the state government absolved the official of charges in 2012.
  
  
 
 Reddy, a native of Nalgonda district, joined government service in 1985 as a building overseer in the town and country planning department. In 1987, he became town planning supervisor and a decade later, he became town planning officer. In 2004, he became deputy city planner and in 2007 he was promoted as regional deputy director, town planning, and in 2008 he became additional chief city planner of GHMC.
 
 During his service, Reddy worked at Gadwal, Uppal, LB Nagar, Kukatpally, Serilingampally and Nellore in various positions and three years ago joined HMDA.
 
 After receiving a tip-off that Reddy was again amassing disproportionate assets, ACB sleuths began collecting information and registered a case against him on January
 
 10. Surprisingly, Reddy went on leave from January 11. ACB sources said, Purushotham Reddy got leave from January 11to January 26. However, he is yet to join duty.
 
 “The accused officer is absconding. The houses of the accused officer and his brother-in-law B Srinivas Reddy were sealed, pending execution of search warrants by the ACB court,” said ACB director-general   Reddy’s phone is switched off and ACB officials asked citizens to alert them if they know about his whereabouts.
 
