HYDERABAD: Chief minister   will launch the state government's   scheme at Indiranagar, Huzurabad in   on Thursday. 

  
  
 
 In the week-long programme from May 10, the state government will distribute 58 lakh cheques ammounting to 5,600 crores to   in 10,800 villages. Deputy chief minister   said elaborate arrangements have been made for distribution of cheques and pattadar passbooks. 
 
 "It is the first of kind scheme in the country. It will help poor farmers, get input subsidy of 4,000 per acre for their two crops Kharif and Rabi. Though it is planned for one week, it may be extended if required for a day or two," the deputy chief minister said. 
 
 About three months back, the CM had announced the scheme to ensure input subsidy for farmers. The idea is for farmers to procure seeds and fertilizers with the subsidy. Officials said 58 lakhs cheques have been readied, sent to respective mandals and the government has deposited the amount. Banks have been asked to keep the cash with them to disburse among the farmers. The agriculture department also held a meeting with banks on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 
 Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee chief spokesperson Dasoju Sravan has alleged of a scam in the TRS government’s ‘Rythu Bandhu Scheme’.
 
 “Official statistics show a contradiction in the number of farmers and cultivable area which leads everyone to believe a major scam is brewing in the name of the scheme. As per the agriculture survey, there were 45,10,990 farmers and they owned 1,24,06,476 acres land,” Sravan told a press meet on Wednesday.
 
 “The TRS government has now come up with an escalated figure of farmers and agriculture area. CM K Chandrashekhar Rao had announced that ₹4,000 per acre would be given to over 58 lakh farmers. However, as against 1.24 crore acres of agriculture land, now the government is claiming that it would distribute input subsidy for 1.39 crore acres. From where has this extra 13 lakh farmers and 15.60 lakh acres of land emerged?” he asked.
 
 Stating that the extent of agriculture land has reduced due to acquisition for several projects, Sravan said instead of reduction, acres of land have increased. “This leads us to suspect large scale irregularities in the Rythu Bandhu scheme even before its launch-.The CM should clarify on these statistics,” he demanded.
 
 
 
