HYDERABAD: It is almost like a scene straight from the 2002 American biographical crime film by   ‘Catch Me if You Can’.  , played by  , performs cons worth millions of dollars before turning 19. Well, he has a counterpart in Hyderabad. Unlike  , who resorted to cheque fraud, the culprit here indulges in snatching offences.

 A snatcher, who struck at KPHB nearly a week ago, turned out to be a repeat offender. The interesting part of the offender’s modus operandi is he wears the same broad checked white shirt and brown shoes while committing chain-snatching offences. Also, the bike-borne culprit seldom wears a helmet, flauntingly the ‘catch me if you can’ attitude on his face.
 
 After a string of chainsnatching offences in the second week of January in  , police, during analysis of CCTV footage, found the culprit, with his trademark shirt and shoes, had snatched 18 chains.
 
 In September, 2017, he had committed 10 snatching offences riding two different bikes— a   and a Honda—on three days and disappeared. He surfaced again in the second week of January and snatched chains of eight women walking alone on deserted roads.
 
 On one occasion, he had even changed the number plate and seat cover of one of his bikes.
 
 
 
 
 Sources in   police told TOI “We do not know the reason, but he has been wearing the same shirt while committed offences. To fox police, offenders take precautions, but the repeat offender is not even changing his attire. Police teams are on the look out for the snatcher.”
 
 Till now, the serial offender has targeted 18 women in Kukatpally, KPHB, Chandanagar, Miyapur residential areas. As he strikes at will, commits offences for two or three consecutive days and hits snooze for a few days, investigators were spending sleepless nights and waiting with bated breath for his next appearance.
 
 After the latest offence at KPHB, police tried to trace the trail of the accused from the location of the scene of crime. Though he was caught on camera at one or two locations (CCTV footage), he was not seen in other available cameras.
 
 
 
