NEW DELHI: An uneasy calm prevailed at   on Wednesday, a day after   decided to maintain only   with the  . The Delhi government has to present its 2018-19 budget next month so the timing of this coldness in relations is critical. Both the politicians and bureaucrats have, however, maintained that work would go on. 

 After a two-hour meeting in the evening, IAS, DANICS, DASS and other associations of government officers decided to continue with the boycott until the CM apologised for the assault on chief secretary  . The IAS association also sought an appointment with President Ramnath Kovind. 
 
 “We fear for our safety. Till trust is restored, the boycott will continue,” a statement read. 
 
 At the secretariat, Prakash came to work but no major meeting involving interaction with the deputy CM and the ministers was scheduled. In the afternoon, he left for a meeting at the Prime Minister’s Office on what his staff said was about “ease of doing business”. Prakash did not return to the secretariat after that. 
 
 “This is not just about IAS versus political party; the issue is of dignity of all government employees. Hence all our resolutions in Delhi are jointly on behalf of DASS, DANICS and IAS associations,” Delhi’s divisional commissioner Manisha Saxena who is the secretary of IAS (AGMUT) Officers’ Association said earlier in the day. 
 
 After the evening meeting, Saxena articulated the view of the associations: “We do not wish to strike work as it will impact the people of Delhi. However, after the assault on the CS we don’t feel safe and till the political executive takes proactive measures to restore the trust we will only interact through written channels of communication.” This essentially means file movement with exchange of notes. 
 
 Saxena said none of the heads of departments met with the political executive on Wednesday.
 
 But at the secretariat, the elected government was trying to play down the crisis. They said there were no major meetings as the CM was away in Madurai and it was a lean work day. Staff at the deputy CM’s office said he had been working and meeting officers from the education and VAT departments. The IAS officers, however, said they would stick to their boycott.
 
 That’s quite worrying as budget is approaching and decisions can’t be made without a deeper engagement between officers and the elected government. While most of the budget-related meetings are already over, the coming week would be crucial to finalise proposals, particularly the new ‘green budget’ component, which is a multi-department project that the government sees as critical to fighting pollution. 
 
 Meanwhile, police presence was pretty tight outside the secretariat and there was greater scrutiny of visitors. 
 
 On Tuesday, the civil services associations had released a statement, calling that the attack on the CS a “functional crisis and breakdown of governance”. They had sought expeditious action against the “perpetrators of the unfortunate incident” from the LG and the Union government. 
 
 
