PATNA: Bihar figures at the bottom in terms of gross   in higher education ratio (GER), according to an all-India survey on higher education (AISHE) for the year 2016-17.

 The survey report was released by Union minister of human resource development Prakash Javadekar in New Delhi on Friday.
 
 According to the report, Bihar’s higher education GER is the lowest at 14.4% whereas Tamil Nadu’s is the highest at 46.9%. Bihar was at the bottom at 14.3% in the AISHE report of 2015-16 as well.
 
 The all-India GER in 2016-17 was 25.2% as against 24.5% the year before. “The Centre targets to achieve 30% all-India GER by 2022,” Javadekar said while releasing the report.
 
 GER is the ratio of students between 18 and 23 years of age enrolled in higher education institutions against the total population in that age group. According to the survey report, the all-India higher education GER has gone up 0.7% in a year, but Bihar’s higher education GER increased by only 0.1 in the corresponding period.
 
 Educationist D M Diwakar attributes the state’s poor higher education GER to lack of basic infrastructure and teachers in the colleges. “Our students are forced to shift to other cities to pursue higher studies,” he said and feared that even the 14.4% GER could be a misnomer.
 
 “Whatever is planned by the policy makers is not delivered on the ground. Most of the colleges are running short of faculties and there are no proper laboratory and library,” Diwakar said.
 
 Even in terms of gender parity index (GPI), Bihar has not fared well. The country’s GPI, a ratio of proportional representation of female and male students, has improved from 0.86 to 0.94, but in case of Bihar, it remained at the country’s lowest at 0.8 during the two surveyed years. 
 
 Also in terms of college density, which is calculated on the basis of number of colleges per lakh students, Bihar is at the bottom with seven colleges for one lakh students. Jharkhand’s is only a little better scenario with there being eight colleges per lakh students. 
 
 Telangana has topped this category with its college density standing at 59, followed by Karnataka which has 53 colleges for every one lakh students.
 
 
