NEW DELHI: National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC) on Wednesday issued a notice to real estate giant   and its top officials seeking their response on why money invested by homebuyers in its luxury residential ORB project in Noida should not be refunded to them due to inordinate delay in giving possession.

  also issued a notice to actress and interior designer   for allegedly promoting the project. 
 
 The court passed the order on a petition filed by seven flat-buyers seeking a direction to Supertech to refund their money as it had failed to honour its promise to give possession in 2015.
 
 When contacted, the company officials refused to comment on the order passed by NCDRC. 
 
 Advocate Amit Kumar, appearing for the petitioners, alleged that flat-buyers had deposited more than Rs 2 crore since 2012 but construction up to only 12 floors had been completed in the last four years in the 50-floor project and the company might take many more years to complete it. He said the buyers were forced to approach the court after the company refused to refund the money. 
 
 “The developer had started the project in 2012 and agreed to complete the construction and delivery of the flats by April 2015. However, it failed to deliver the flats causing mental and physical harassment and financial damages to the complainants. It is evident on the face of it that the builder is not in position to the deliver the project in near future as it has already missed the deadline for delivery of the flats and the status of construction on the site makes the situation deplorable,” the petition said.
 
 Kumar told the told the consumer court that there had hardly been any progress in construction at the site for the last two years and the construction was not likely to be completed in the next 15 to 20 years.
 
 The petitioners made   Khanna a party in the case alleging that she had promoted the project and induced the prospective buyers to buy the flats. “She has not only lent her name to the project but actively participated in luring the flat buyers by openly declaring that the project has been masterminded by her. She is architect and interior designer of the project. She advocated selling of the project and flats and thus, she is also a service provider and the deficiency of service is also writ large on her part,” the petition said. 
 
  was launched in 2012 and is located in Sector 74 in Noida. The project contains three towers, each having 50 floors.
 
 
