NEW DELHI: A   conducted by   in collaboration with AIIMS’   (BAC) has revealed that one of every five   in Delhi is a   (PIU), a medical term associated with addiction to   socialising and gaming, among other abnormal behaviours. The survey also showed 37% of the students depended on the internet to lift their mood. These findings have been published online in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry.

 A total of 6,291 students studying in classes from VI to XII in 25 schools in the south-east district of Delhi participated in the survey, said one of the authors of the study. The co-author added that information was gathered regarding the students’ internet usage pattern and it was analysed to assess their PIU rating on a 15-item psychometric scale. A score higher than 60 was considered as indicative of PIU. 
 
  
  
 It was found that 19% of the students were rated at higher than 60, indicating problematic use of internet. This statistics is comparable with the rates of problematic internet use in other Asian countries, but higher than the corresponding rates among schools students in north America and western Europe, according to doctors. 
 
 Psychiatrists reveal that problematic internet use described often as an addictive behaviour is associated with psychological problems in students and, hence, there was need to cover all the students under a cyber awareness programme in order to facilitate safe and healthy use of the internet. Two years ago, AIIMS opened the behavioural addiction clinic to deal with people who are hooked to the social media, online games or the internet in general. 
 
 Dr Yatan Pal Singh Balhara, who heads BAC, said depression, anxiety and substance abuse were common in patients addicted to the internet. “Such patients are counselled, their access to the internet is controlled and, in rare circumstances, hospital admission is required for their well-being,” he told TOI.
 
 Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital reported how two brothers addicted to gaming required a month of rehabilitation in the psychiatry ward. Always engrossed in gaming, they had no time for studies, meals, changing clothes or even bathing. They slept fitfully, ignored phone calls and the doorbell, and twice turned a blind eye to robbers cleaning out their house. The most odious symptom of their decline was the habit of defecating and urinating in the clothes they were wearing while focused on the games.
 
 The collaborative project of Delhi Police and AIIMS suggests the number of PIUs could be higher because the survey showed 22% of the student respondents spending two to five hours online daily.
 
 Boys were significantly more likely than girls to use social media, and go online for gaming, gambling and to access news. But when it came to time spent in chat rooms, online shopping, educational purposes and in recreational surfing, there was no significant difference between the two genders.
 
 The study also found that the older students and those studying in higher grades spent more hours online, in chat rooms and on social networking sites.
 
 According to the study in the Asian Journal of Psychiatry, internet use patterns and behaviours took shape in these formative years as students. “These patterns and behaviours related to the use of internet are likely to continue even in later life,” the authors observed.
 
 Doctors explained that addiction to the internet can be the cause of the drop in grades and increased aggression among kids these days. There are internet de-addiction centres in Delhi where counsellors try to indulge children in real-life activities such as interactive education, science-based unique programming and device-free retreats. “Even fifth graders have access to Facebook, WhatsApp, Hike messaging service and similar chat groups. The children hide their activities on these platforms from their parents,” disclosed Rahul Verma, head of Uday Foundation, which runs a cyber de-addiction centre in south Delhi.
 
 
