Comedian   received support by comedians as the latter was criticised by United States President   for her comic gig at the White House Correspondents' Dinner on Sunday.

 According to reports, Wolf took multiple digs at Trump administration officials including White House spokesperson Sarah Sanders, media professionals, Democrats and Republicans at the White House Correspondents' Dinner in Washington, D.C. which Trump skipped for the second time in a row.
 
 As per the media reports, Wolf compared Sanders to an indoctrinator character Aunt Lydia of sitcom The Handmaid's Tale while saying that Sanders is a white woman who disappoints other white women, as per media reports.
 
 Famous comedians including   and   showcased their support for wolf while criticising those who criticised Wolf for her comments.
 
 "I asked @maggieNYT to quote the line where Michelle intensely criticized SHS's appearance. She unfollowed me. She has an extremely important job. Making vague statements that she herself cannot back up with facts/quotes isn't helpin," tweeted Nanjian.
 
 
  
 "The more I think about it, the more impressed I am that Michelle Wolf did such a harsh act WITHOUT insulting any woman's looks. She aimed straight at the white female enforcers & never once suggested that anyone was a bimbo or a dog-like the man they work for surely would have," Nassbaum tweeted.
 
 
  
 Earlier in Sunday, President Trump who has been avoiding attending the White House dinner since two years called the dinner to be a disaster while seeming to have taken a sly dig at Wolf's performance.
 
 "The White House Correspondents' Dinner is DEAD as we know it. This was a total disaster and an embarrassment to our great Country and all that it stands for. FAKE NEWS is alive and well and beautifully represented on Saturday night!" Trump tweeted.
 
 
  
 Trump had missed the dinner to hold a campaign-style Michigan rally on Saturday (local time). He earlier tweeted on April 29
 
 "While Washington, Michigan, was a big success, Washington, D.C., just didn't work. Everyone is talking about the fact that the White House Correspondents Dinner was a very big, boring bust...the so-called comedian really "bombed." @greggutfeld should host next year! @PeteHegseth"
 
 
  
 Michelle Wolf is soon going to be featured in her all-new shot on a website Netflix.
 
