KOLKATA: Six people died due to accidents on Maa flyover in the first nine months of its inauguration in October 2015. In the last nine months, however, only one fatality was reported (in May 2017) after the installation of speedometers along the flyover in March 2017.

 According to the findings by Kolkata traffic police, speeding at night was more than 60% before the devices were put up on the flyover. During the day, it was slightly lesser, hovering around 36-40%. This implies that a majority of drivers didn’t bother about watching their speed limits on the flyover.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (I)   said the over-speeding percentage now stands at mere 10-12% throughout the day. “If you ever wondered if technology can act as a deterrent, here is the example. This is on a stretch where putting men on top of the flyover to control traffic is extremely difficult,” said Goel, recently presenting on the use of modern technology in managing traffic in urban areas during a national conference on Urban Road Traffic Management and Safety at Netaji Indoor Stadium.
 
  
  
 A top traffic department officer told TOI, that the success on the Maa flyover prompted them to install speedometers on major city roads — EM Bypass, Diamond Harbour Road and   Bose Road.
 
 The cameras, installed on the flyover, record date, time, location, image of the number plate, direction of travel, speed and the speed limit on the stretch where a car is travelling. “The images captured are also being used to send instant challans in the form of SMS,” said an officer. Punishment involves a fine of up to Rs 1,000 or a jail term of six months or both.
 
 “Both, measuring road traffic speed and displaying it, are important. Most drivers are not aware how fast they are driving. Over-speeding often results in accidents on the flyover. Thus, the use of a preventive speed indicator device increases road safety. The statistics is a good indicator of the same,” said an IPS officer.
 
 A few months ago, a security audit of the flyover by experts attached to   asked cops to streamline traffic flow by putting up proper signage, including indications ahead of diversion points on the flyover, at key points. They stressed on streamlining the highest speed allowed at different stretches of the flyover.
 
