JAIPUR: Three government colleges in Rajasthan are not only silently fighting the climate change by generating their own electricity through solar panels but also generating revenues.

 Of 209 government colleges, 15 colleges have installed solar panels on the rooftop and meeting the power needs. The initiative is are not only reducing the burden on power stations but ending up saving cost on electricity bills. A government college in Nasirabad, Ajmer and Alwar have gone a step ahead while producing power in excess which they are selling it to   and Alwar Vidhyut Vitran Nigam Ltd (AVVNL). At least, the prolonged power cuts or rationalizing of power will be passe in these colleges.
 
 Solar Panels installed in 2016 October with a cost of Rs 60 lakh at   (SPRGC) in Ajmer are producing an average of 13,000 units of power. The college, spread in 30 acres of land with 9,000 students is among the biggest college in the North India, in terms of land area is meeting 80% of its need through solar panels. 
 
 “The monthly power bill has down from Rs 1.6- Rs 1.8 lakh per month to just Rs 15, 000-25,000. The college has 148 rooms, including 80 classrooms, 26 labs, 22 department rooms along 12 rooms for office purpose. These rooms has 30 ACs and 550 each fans and lights. We have been saving almost Rs 1.25 lakh to Rs 1.30 lakh per month. The cost spend on panels will be recovered in less than 5 years,” said  , associated professor, department of Mathematics, SPRGC. During summers the generation increases while the consumption declines due to no teaching activity gives the college an opportunity to sell it to AVVNL.
 
 In terms of volume, Ajmer is leading while in generating revenues, Government Arts college in Alwar is on the fore. The college has installed 40 kilowatt solar panel plant with a cost of Rs 26 lakh is producing electricity units of worth 2 lakh rupees. “The college is a foremost example of not only attaining self-sufficiency but also generating revenues. The average cost of power bill in the college is Rs 90, 000 and it is selling the excess power of 1.80 lakh to the AVVNL. In a year, it is saving close to Rs 15 lakh which is a remarkable achievement,” said  , state higher education minister. Upbeat over the performance of solar panels, she has announced to install these panels in all government colleges. “I advise that not only educational institutes but even households should take the use of abundant solar energy. It is environment friendly and cost effective,” said Maheswari.
 
 
