Mangaluru: Good Samaritans who responded to victims of recent communal hate in the city found appreciation in Kalaburagi, around 700kms away. After seeing media reports about their quick action, P Vilas Kumar, a Kalaburagi advocate, sent cheques of Rs 50,000 each to Abdul Majid and Shekar Kulal who were first on the scene when Deepak Rao, a Hindu activist, was murdered and Abdul Basheer, a hotelier, was killed in retaliation.

 In a letter addressed to deputy commissioner Sasikanth Senthil S, Vilas said he didn’t want any mileage for his encouragement of Majid and Kulal. He urged the DC to hand over the cheques to them. “The efforts and risk taken by these two persons are exemplary... Hence, I salute both of them and they will be models for other persons,” he wrote.
 
 Handing over the cheques, additional DC Kumara appreciated the advocate’s gesture. “Vilas wanted these cheques to reach them through the district administration so that there is some accountability,” Kumara said, adding that he at no point wanted it to be made public. However, given the import of such a gesture, the administration decided to hand over the cheques before the media, he said.
 
 Abdul Majid recalled his effort to help Deepak, his employee for the past seven years. “On hearing Deepak’s screams, I rushed to the spot just outside my house. Seeing him in a pool of blood, I called his friend Sathish and the police,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police (law & order) Hanumanthraya said it was information given by Abdul Majid which helped police nab the assailants within hours of the incident.
 
 Shekar, an ambulance driver, said he saw Abdul Basheer lying in the middle of the road when he was returning after dropping a person. “Mahesh, who was with me in the ambulance, helped me shift Basheer to the ambulance and we took him to a nearby private hospital and then informed police,” he said. Shekar, a resident of Aakash Bhavan, said he knew Basheer and his son as they lived in the same area.
 
 
