NEW DELHI: The reduced number of  , increasing   and poor planning may be behind the rapid decline in Delhi’s water table. In almost 15% of the capital, groundwater now lies at a depth of 40 metres. The Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) has submitted in the Supreme Court that groundwater levels had fallen in almost all of south Delhi, central Delhi and east Delhi where the groundwater withdrawn was much more than the water replenished.

 South Delhi was particular affected. Water could now be found only as deep as 79 metres below ground level (bgl) in Kapashera, while Gadaipur village in Mehrauli had villagers drawing water from a depth of 78 metres bgl. North-west, north and south-west districts were in the ‘semi-critical’ zone. Only some parts of west and central Delhi could be classified as ‘safe’, or areas where withdrawal was equal to the replenishment amount. The best in terms of easy access to groundwater, according to CGWB’s report, were Dewarala in Najafgarh and Kanjhawala with readings, respectively, of 1.13 and 1.47 metres bgl.
 
  
  
 Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor of geology at Delhi University who has conducted several studies on groundwater levels in Delhi, said the latest data indicated yet again that the capital did not have enough recharge structures. Citing the example of south Delhi, Shekhar said the increasing concretisation and illegal extraction could be major factors for the falling water table.
 
 “Extraction of water is not being controlled even after regulation. Besides, large-scale concretisation is not allowing water to percolate into the ground,” pointed out Shekhar. “This is the perfect wake-up call for us to get more rainwater harvesting systems installed.” Locations like Kalkaji, Vasant Vihar, Hauz Khas and Rajouri Garden were mapped as the most exploited areas where extraction was almost double the recharged amount.
 
 CGWB’s submission also highlighted some areas where groundwater was rising at the rate of 0-0.5 metre a year. These included parts of west and north Delhi. However, Shekhar said the rise was more due to natural reasons than human intervention. “North Delhi has higher groundwater levels because places like Timarpur, Kashmere Gate and Majnu ka Tilla are all discharge zones with the topography allowing water to converge there,” Shekhar elaborated. “In south-west Delhi, Ghumanhera has a natural depression and it collects water from the Najafgarh drain, leading to a rise in the water table.”
 
 Among the areas where water is falling at a rate greater than 1 metre per year are Satbari (1.4 metres), and Dwarka (1.1m). Vikrant Tongad, who has filed a petition against the overextraction of groundwater by Delhi Metro in the National Green Tribunal, suggested the revival of storm-water drains and water bodies could reverse the depleting water table. “Water bodies earlier caught rain water and naturally recharged aquifers. But a lot of them have dried up,” Tongad said. “Not enough water is going back as recharge.”
 
 In its 2017 report,” Hydrogeological Framework and Groundwater Management Plan of NCT Delhi”, CGWB had identified a potential aquifer zone along the western Yamuna canal to yield around 5 million gallons per day. Under the Delhi Jal Board’s summer supply plan, more than 4,460 tubewells and 19 Ranney wells operate to meet the peak demand. Around 90 million gallons are extracted daily through sub-surface sources. Hand pumps provide water to around 5.3% households, while 8.4% use tubewells as the primary source of water. DJB is also exploring the Yamuna floodplain downstream of Wazirabad and the area adjacent to Najafgarh Lake for groundwater extraction on a sustainable basis.
 
 
