MANGALURU: Very soon, one will see women driving buses and trucks in Mangaluru. The state government is mulling over inducting women drivers in heavy duty operations, transport minister H M   said on Saturday.

 Though the government has been toying with the idea for a few months now, it has decided to implement the scheme at the earliest as Revanna said funds will be set aside for the purpose in the next budget.
 
 He said he had seen women driving buses and other heavy duty vehicles in China and the European countries and wanted to emulate the initiative in the state as well. He said chief minister Siddaramaiah had given a go ahead for the plan.
 
 “Women are excelling in every field. They’ve been to the space, they’ve been doing well in defence, in science and engineering. They’ve been working as conductors as well. However, driving heavy duty vehicles is an area that needs to be explored by them. We are giving them a chance in this direction. Their economic status will also improve,” he said. Revanna said the government will invest in their training and getting them licenses. The government is also planning to introduce women drivers in school buses, he said.
 
 He was speaking after participating in the foundation stone laying ceremony for a centre to train heavy duty vehicle drivers near KIADB, Kamblapadavu in Pajeer. This is the only third such facility in the state, the other two being located in Bengaluru and Dharwad.
 
 “We often see rash and irresponsible driving by heavy duty drivers leading to several deaths. The centre here will help in avoiding many such accidents. The idea to setup this facility here was mooted a couple of time earlier. However, it did not see light of the day as there were a few issues pertaining to acquiring land,” Revanna said, adding that he had set a deadline of 18 months to finish the project.
 
 The centre will be set up at a cost of Rs 15 crore in a 10-acre land.
 
 B Dayanand, director, transport and road safety, department of transport, said an automated driving track, and inspection of vehicles and fitness centre will also be set up in the same area.
 
 
