CHANDIGARH: A 28-year-old call centre employee riding a motorcycle was killed and a man in his car injured after a Range Rover hit them at a high speed on the dividing road of sectors 48 and 49 in the early hours of Friday.

 Investigating officers said the allegedly drunk Range Rover driver was racing with a friend in a Toyota Fortuner, another SUV. The Range Rover driver first hit a Maruti Alto car and lost control over the vehicle, which flipped on to the other side of the road after damaging the divider and banged into the motorcyclist around 1.30am. The vehicle dragged the man along with his bike for more than 100 metre, said an investigating officer.
 
 The accused driver,  , 28, a resident of  , Sangrur, fled from the   spot in his friend’s car. According to eyewitnesses, Chamkaur Singh had got stuck in his Range Rover and was taken out by his friends in the other SUV by opening the vehicle’s sunroof. He was later arrested. He was allegedly under the influence of liquor as beer bottles were recovered by cops from the SUV after the accident.
 
 The victim has been identified as Aman Rajwanta, a resident of Kotkapura near Faridkot. He was living with his cousin in Sector 22. Aman worked in a call centre of a cellular company in Sector 66, Mohali. He was returning from   to Sector 22.
 
 Shailendra Partap, the car driver who received minor injuries, told TOI that he was returning from Panchkula to his house in Mohali. As he reached the dividing road of sectors 48 and 49, he saw in the rear view mirror two SUVs coming at him at a high speed. While the Fortuner car passed his car and the Range Rover hit his car and crossed the divider and hit Aman’s bike who was coming from Mohali.
 
 Shailender, who first called the cops, saw the Range Rover driver fleeing.
 
 Jaswinder Kaur, station house officer, Sector 49, said Aman was taken to   and Hospital, Sector 32, from where he was referred to PGI but he died on way. The post-mortem would be conducted on Saturday. Police have sent the blood samples of the accused for medical examination and blood report would prove whether he was drunk or not at the time of accident, the SHO said.
 
 Police have registered a case under Sections 279 (rash driving), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.
 
 Police said the family of the accused has a transport business in Dhuri and he had come to Chandigarh to meet his friends.
 
 Dinesh, an uncle of the victim, said Aman was the only son of his parents. His father is a pharmacist at Kotkapura.
 
 
 
