KOLKATA: The   on the wall of  , which greeted those who came down Maa flyover, have been white-washed. The loss of the murals, which were part of the Calcutta Street Art Festival launched in 2017, has saddened locals and art lovers alike.

 
 The initiative, according to art connoisseur and travel writer Arindam Chandra, put Kolkata on the street art world map on a par with Brussels, Lisbon and Atlanta, among others.
 
  
  
 
 “Defacing them is a sort of vandalism,” he said. “There are so many walls which require a fresh coat of paint. Why do you need to deface a work of art?” he asked.
 
 Painter and parliamentarian Jogen Chaudhury, who spearheaded the movement, was cautious in his comment. “I have to see what kind of paintings they were. It would not be fair to make a sweeping comment on such defacing before knowing whether the painters took prior permission from the owner of the walls. But I personally believe that art should be preserved,” he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 During the festival, 15 artists chose 20 locations across the city to paint the walls, including Exide crossing, Ballygunge tram depot, Eden Gardens,   seven-point crossing and walls of three metro stations. Kolkata-based paint manufacturing company Berger Paints sponsored the event and WeatherCoat painting was used so that the murals lasted longer.
 
 Painter Barun Saha, who led the team of artists to paints these murals, was sad at this development.
 
 “Because of this street art, we are being invited by various cities to replicate the model. In fact, in our city itself, these paintings were photographed and were used to decorate bus stands. But here it was defaced without reason,” said Saha.
 
 He said that he had received many calls from agitated art lovers after the art had been painted over.
 
 The defacement reportedly happened due to lack of supervision by the West Bengal Transport Corporation. A   official said, “The defacement was accidental. A contractor was engaged to paint the periphery wall of the depot. But the workers mistakenly whitewashed the paintings.”
 
 The seven murals on the wall of Park Circus tram depot showcased a story line of simple joys of childhood, global triumph of the Indian athletes, environmental issues and paintings with strong social messages, said Saha. “The stunning murals were used to both beautify the wall and to discourage people from dirtying it,” explained a Berger Paints official.
 
 The festival had support from various government agencies, including Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC). Member, mayor-incouncil, Debasish Kumar, who appreciated the festival during its launching, was also surprised by the covering up of the art.
 
