NEW DELHI: Sealing drive reached South Extension-I on Tuesday when the local shopping complex in D-block of the area was targeted for misuse of properties as per the directions of the   committee. As many as 30 units in the form of basements and upper floors of properties in the local shopping centre were sealed for ‘misuse and non-payment of conversion charges,’ the members of building department undertaking the action said.

 With over 130 units being sealed across Delhi every day, the drive has picked up pace after a recent   from the monitoring committee that had ordered the corporations to speed up the process that had slowed down since Republic Day.
 
 Many people in South Extension complained that they have been rendered homeless despite using the properties for purely residential purposes. “I was in office when I was informed that our house is being sealed. We lived there for 10 years,” said Arjun Singh, a resident of D block.
 
 The owner of   in D-42,  , said that over 400 students of the institute will be affected from its sealing. “I have been paying conversion charges since 2008 under commercial category but they’re telling me now that a rate of Rs 22,000 per sq m is applicable on it. I was not informed earlier,” said Gupta. Avneesh Mittal, a trader working in the computer repair field said that he and his six employees were suddenly on the street. 
 
 Another 10 properties in Janakpuri West were sealed by SDMC. The action taken report stated that these properties were sealed because of commercial activities there.
 
 The focus remained on targeting violations related to stilt parking in the north corporation. “Teams from building headquarters of four zones — Sadar Paharganj, Rohini, Keshavpuram and Civil Lines — sealed 76 stilt parking spaces. One basement was sealed too,” a spokesperson of north   said.
 
 According to the action taken report, 12 stilt parking spaces were sealed in Ram Nagar and Daryaganj; 40 in Sector 8 and 11 of Rohini, Sunder Vihar and Paschim Vihar. Additionally, 12 stilt parking units were sealed at Shalimar Bagh, Jawahar Nagar and Bungalow Road, and 12 in Mukherjee Nagar and Malka Ganj.
 
 In east Delhi, 14 properties were sealed in areas including Surajmal Vihar, Surya Niketan, Pushpanjali, Shyam Enclave and Sharad Vihar in Shahdara south zone.
 
 
