MANGALURU: It is considered as one of the most backward taluks in Dakshina Kannada, yet when it comes to elections,  , which is situated close to the Western Ghats, bordering Kodagu district and surrounded by forests, sees the highest polling percentage. On Saturday, the polling percentage was 83 and in 2013 it stood at 82.37%. Mangaluru City South saw the lowest polling percentage at 67.47%.

 The taluk is dominated by Vokkaligas,   and  , and has been maintaining consistency in voting over the years, be it in assembly polls or general elections. The polling percentage has seen a rise election after election.
 
 “I was posted in a remote village called Kirmayi in Sullia, and was amazed at the enthusiasm of voters to exercise their franchise. In the first few hours of polling, there were 100 people voting every hour . Voter turnout was at 80 per cent, with a high percentage of voters being female. The Election Commission had made transport arrangements to ferry voters from remote locations to booths. The situation was similar in neighbouring booths,” shares a senior professor from a city-based college, while speaking to TOI.
 
 According to JD(S) leader M B Sadashiva, there are two strong reasons for a higher polling percentage: literacy and increased awareness created after the 1992 communal riots. Sadashiva explains that almost every household has people who have at least cleared matriculation, be it from the General category or from SC/STs.
 
 The scenario of voting changed in the aftermath of the 1992 communal riots in the taluk. Communities who suffered due to the riots, now come out in large numbers, as they think that protection from politicians can save them from such untoward incidents, said sources.
 
 Sullia, which is a reserve constituency in the district, has less Billavas, Christians and Bunts, compared to the other seven constituencies.
 
 Sadashiva adds that other factors for people coming out of houses and voting is due to the influence of Sri Lanka repatriation in 1964. Many people were brought in large numbers to rubber plantations after the Indo-Sri Lanka agreement on rehabilitating Indian-origin indentured labourers. “This led to an economic boom. Today, every household here has a vehicle and other facilities. Further it also created awareness among the people on the importance of voting. People claim that our taluk is backward, but its actually due to a failure in administration. One must learn from voters of this taluk,” says Sadhashiva.
 
 
