While all eyes were set on bride   with many waiting to know which designer’s label she would wear on her big day, it was the groom   who stole the show with his sports shoes with a black   and  . All those who know Anand through his social media posts are aware of his love for shoes, but who would have thought he would turn up in sports shoes on his wedding day! Designers say that while pairing   with formal suits or even traditional wear isn’t new a concept, only a few can carry-off sneakers that look like running shoes with a bandhgala. “You need a confident man to be doing that – wear sports shoes with traditional Indian wear on your wedding. I think Anand was able to do that and it didn’t come as a surprise to those who know him well because he has that personality of a sportsperson,” says designer  . 

  
  
 Designers add that wearing white shoes or shoes with a sporty look with formal outfits have been in fashion for quite some time now, but Anand opting for sport shoes with a bandhgala was pretty offbeat. “If we talk about sneakers, they are bigger than denims now. A pair of denims is part of everyone’s wardrobe, but how and on what occasion one chooses to wear it is a personal choice. The same goes for sneakers. So, to choose sneakers that looked more like smart running shoes for a wedding was a bold choice,” says designer  .
 
  
  
 
 
 From ramp to what you see on streets, wearing sneakers or sports shoes with a formal suit and tie is a common trend in the West. Designer   says that last month, when he was invited to meet the French president in Paris, he didn’t have to think twice before choosing black sneakers with a black formal suit and tie. “In the West, sneakers are now accepted as formal wear, and one would not be inviting stares if one would walk in at a meeting or a party wearing formal clothes with sneakers,” says Rahul. In India, it would be rare to find guests at a formal party or a wedding in sports shoes. 
 
  
  Sonam Kapoor and Anand Ahuja at their wedding reception
 
 Designer Rajesh Pratap Singh says that with the increasing popularity of different kinds of shoes among youngsters, we might see a change in trend soon. “Sneakers are already popular and accepted at formal events and parties. In day-to-day wear, people are not shy anymore to wear sports shoes with ethnic wear. I was recently travelling in Rajasthan and met women who were wearing sneakers with traditional poshak. I feel that soon, we will have more people opting for not just sneakers, but smart sports shoes at formal events and even weddings, and it wouldn’t be odd,” says Rajesh.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Because of the variety of shoes available in the market nowadays, people can choose the right kind of sneakers or even sports shoes that would even go with ethnic or fusion wear. “Sports shoes form the largest selling category of footwear across the world. I think that for decades, men have been wearing those leather shoes – which are not always comfortable – with formal wear, and finally, there are enough choices in the ‘comfortable shoe category’ for men. Also, it is now all right to not be in those leather, laced-up shoes at meetings and formal events, but in cool, stylish and comfortable ones. As far as the young generation – or someone like Anand Ahuja – wearing sneakers with traditional clothes is concerned, then youngsters today rate comfort over most things and know how to carry something offbeat. I am hoping we would see more men at weddings in not just sneakers, but in stylish sports shoes too,” says designer David Abraham. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
