HYDERABAD: After Delhi and Bengaluru, Hyderabad has emerged as a hotspot for students seeking internships with an increasing number of engineering and management graduates trooping into the city to gain hands-on experience.

  
  
 
 According to data shared by  , an   facilitator, of the total number of applications received for internships this season, 32.93 per cent are from management students and 25.79 per cent from engineering students.
 
 In Hyderabad, 46 per cent interships come with preplacement offers (PPO).
 
 “Hyderabad has a plethora of opportunities for students and young graduates with start-ups and corporates hiring interns for varied profiles like business development, content writing, web development and graphic design. In fact, May and June are the best time for students to opt for internships with higher number of organisations seeking interns,” said  , founder and CEO of Internshala.
 
 The most sought-after profiles for internships are business development (sales), marketing, content writing, web development and graphic design. Increasing number of students from   and Andhra Pradesh are also seen seeking training for web development, android app development, programming with Python, core Java, programming with C and C++ and business communication skills, the report suggests.
 
 According to the data, while 57 per cent students look for in-office internship, 43 per cent are keen on virtual internships.
 
 While the e-commerce sector continues to hire most number of interns, Internshala’s Internship Trends 2017 report sheds light on how an increasing number of recruiters are hiring in areas like management and engineering, more than any other area, in the city.
 
 With the   making it mandatory for students to undergo internships, officials expect a steep rise in number of those exploring their options in various sectors. However, college managements rue how there are very few companies offering internships in core areas. “There are hardly two to three per cent students who are get internships in companies which not only provide training but also stipend. All other companies offer internships in sales and marketing that are nowhere related to their core skill set,” said a head placement officer from an engineering college in Ibrahimpatnam.
 
 Others claim that the AICTE’s practice of tying up with online internship portals to help students must be curbed. “The AICTE has tied up with a few online internship providers that are seeking money from students to explore opportunities. Such commercial practices must not be encouraged by AICTE,” said NLN Reddy, placement officer of Chaitanya Bharati Institute of Technology.
 
 
