Earlier this week, Booksellers and Publishers Association of South India (BAPASI) threw open the doors to Chennai’s 41st Book Fair, also one of the city’s largest book shows held annually. This year, the organisers are determined to target a particular section of readers and give them enough reasons to visit the fair — the students.

 "Unfortunately, we’ve seen the number of students visiting the fair go down in the past few years. This is why we have given 5 lakh entry tickets for free to schools across the city. Students can use these to bring in their parents too," says S Vairavan, president, BAPASI. "Also, we’re not charging entry fee for kids under 12," he adds. 
 
 With a heartfelt hope to see children take a break from their fascination towards gadgets and pick up a book or two, BAPASI has gone a step further by offering them little treats. One of them is an Android robot that helps visitors find books and navigate their way through the 360 publishers and 708 stalls featured at the fair. "It is drawing children to take selfies with it, but that’s a start," says Vairavan.
 
 A chunk of children in the 15-22 age group are still seen thronging stalls having exam guide books, self-help books and popular   including Chetan Bhagat and the Shiva trilogy series, on display. There seemed to be a small yet growing inclination among this age-group to explore biographies and autobiographies of revolutionaries and leaders. Seventeen-year-old Arun Bala has been carefully scanning the shelves to pick the best Karl Marx book that could give him a simple and straightforward insight into the philosopher’s mind. "I just find him intriguing and I think now is a good time to learn," says the Class XI student.
 
 Athmanathan Indrajit, another Class XI student from the city had been delving into his fascination for communism and atheism through hordes of books at the fair, and found his pick in Bhagat Singh’s translated work, ‘Naan Nathigan Yen’ (Why I am an Atheist). "Since I contemplate on this subject a lot, I believe this book will help me articulate it to my peers," says Indrajit.
 
 The enthusiasm for history, philosophy and art among girls in the same age group was comparatively less. Most of them were seen scouting for guide books or popular fiction, and a few for books on Tamil culture — a fascination that seems to have been ignited since the Jallikattu protests last Pongal.
 
 However, emerging as a promising readership for Tamil literature are women aged between 40 and 50 — both working and homemakers — with several of them picking up authors like Sandilyan and Perumal Murugan. K Jayalakshmi, a 50-year-old public sector employee, who is also associated with a trade union, wants to pick up books that will strike an ideological chord with her union members, while her friend S Poongolali, a gynecologist has read and reread the controversial ‘Madhorubagan’, and is now on the lookout for something that isn’t popular in the mainstream. "I think it’s most important for women to read powerful books. They need it," says Poongolali, bagging in a copy of P Jeevasundari’s book on Tamil social reformer Moovalur Ramamirtham — the woman best remembered for her crusade for the abolition of the Devadasi system.
 
 
