SHIMLA: The   high court on Friday reiterated that there should be no supply of water to any individual through a tanker, barring the residences and offices of the governor and the chief minister. The court directed   member secretary P P Ranta to keep an inventory of water distributed through such tankers. 

 The court also directed that all 62 keymen, who are responsible for supplying water in localities, should be kept under surveillance to check its equitable distribution. It said the keymen shall be accompanied by at least two police officials and the activity of turning the key on and off video recorded. This can easily be done through the smart phones carried by the officials, for the number of keymen are just 62 in number, it added.
 
 In its resumed hearing on the fifth consecutive day, a division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice   asked the municipal authorities to educate the masses about conserving water through jingles. They added that it has been brought to the court’s notice that some private individuals had taken to drilling of water. “We direct the deputy commissioner, Shimla, to explore the possibility of utilizing this water for purposes other than drinking. The issue as to whether such activity can be undertaken by private individuals or not shall be taken up by the court on the next date of hearing,” it added. 
 
 Listing the case’s next hearing on June 11, the court directed the state administration to ensure that miscreants do not create hurdles in the distribution of water through water tankers. It further directed that no dharnas be allowed to be held to ensure that the distribution of water is done in a peaceful manner. The court added that the process of disconnection of water connections of defaulter hoteliers shall start immediately and there should be no laxity on the part of the   in this regard.
 
 The court also directed to disconnect all those water connections where water tanks are overflowing.
 
 Asking the media to exercise restraint and not sensationalise the issue so as to dissuade the tourists from visiting Shimla, the court said, “We are not even remotely suggesting that the media should not report the facts, but what we are observing is that the media should restrain from publishing material which may be construed as a message that tourists are either not welcome in the town or that the tourists should not visit the town.”
 
 
