NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Friday decided to notify the entire city as a ‘controlled area’ after 32 more horses were diagnosed with   disease. Development minister Gopal Rai said that once the notification comes out, there would be ban on movement of all equines — horses, donkeys and   — in and out of the city.

 Officials have also identified 11 points within the city where movement of horses will be restricted to a 5km radius. “These are mostly places where a few horses are suspected or confirmed to be suffering from the disease. Until the threat perception for other animals is cleared, the horses in these areas won’t be allowed to move,” said Dr Jitender Gaur, director of veterinary department.
 
 Gaur added that New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) area has been declared as secure, so there is no threat to the participation of horses in the Republic Day parade. “None of the horses used by the Army have been found affected by Glanders as yet,” he said.
 
 Last December, Delhi government had banned the movement of equines in the west district for three months as a precautionary measure after seven animals at   at   were found with Glanders.
 
 Rai said that 2,000 samples from horses were recently sent to National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar, of which results for 1,000 have been received. “Out of the 1,000 samples, 32 were found positive. Samples taken from people in contact with the horses are also being tested,” he added.
 
 The minister on Friday held a meeting with senior officials from the Centre, Delhi government, Army and police, and doctors from three municipal corporations and NDMC.
 
 Glanders is an infectious disease primarily affecting horses. It is transferable and equally dangerous to humans. The disease is commonly contracted by consuming food or water contaminated by the nasal discharge of the carrier animals.
 
 Officials said the authorities concerned need to screen animals with symptoms such as fever with chills and sweating and nasal discharge. 
 
 Prevention of the disease in humans involves elimination of diseased animals in most cases.
 
 According to a recent research published in Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, Glanders was restricted to certain pockets with sporadic cases till about a decade ago. 
 
 In the past one year, several cases have been reported from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh alarming veterinary experts.
 
 
