Tirupur: With the city corporation announcing in its budget that a road bridge across Noyyal River between Parappalayam and Rayapuram would be completed this year, residents of the area are gearing up to lay the foundation stone, even though the state highways department is yet to approve the project design. The project, which would reduce vehicular traffic on busy Mangalam Road, was a public-contributed project, in which, people would share 50% of the cost. Residents, who were demanding for the bridge for 25 years, say the project is crucial as there were no bridge to connect Mangalam Road with other side of Noyyal in the 8km stretch between Nataraj theatre bridge and Vanjipalayam bridge. The demand for the bridge became vocal when the construction work for another bridge at Anaipalayam was in limbo for some years. So, the state government advised the residents in Parappalayam and Rayapuram areas to start a foundation and contribute 50% of the total project cost. Subsequently, the residents formed Deepam Foundation and deposited their share of Rs 1.5 crore.  In spite of this, the PWD (water resources organisation) and the state highways department did not clear the project. The highways department then claimed that the foundation had submitted a design made by a private engineering firm without its approval and sought resubmission of the design. Meanwhile, the project got a shot in the arm when the city corporation said in its annual budget that it would complete the project within this year. “Following this, the PWD has provided no-objection certificate but the highways department was yet to approve the design,” a senior corporation official told TOI. However, the president of Deepam Foundation and a CPI functionary, R Balasubramaniam, was upbeat that the project would be started by this month. “The Detailed Project Report (DPR) was modified and the cost was revised to Rs 3.33 crore. We have deposited to the government the additional Rs 17 lakh too. We were briefed by the highways department officials that the project would be approved soon,” he said. “The bidding process to select the contractor for the construction work will be completed in a few days. The construction work would begin by this month and would be completed in six months. The bridge would be 200ft long and 50ft wide with 5ft pedestrian path on both sides,” he added.