CHANDIGARH: The Supreme Court (SC) on Monday stayed the   proceedings of the case related to the killing of 16-year-old   Khan, who was stabbed to death on a train. The apex court also issued a notice to the Haryana government on the plea filed by Junaid’s father Jalaluddin seeking   probe into the case.

 A division bench comprising Justice Kurian Joseph and Justice Mohan Shantanagoudar passed these orders while hearing an appeal filed by Jalaluddin.
 
 Junaid’s father had filed an appeal, submitting that his son’s killing was “motivated by deep rooted communal hatred against victim’s community.” He had sought directions to set aside the November 27, 2017 orders passed by the Punjab and Haryana high court, declining his plea to hand over the matter to CBI.
 
 In his plea, Jalaluddin submitted that the necessity of transferring the investigation to CBI was imminent in the instant situation due to the poor investigation carried out by the investigating agency of Haryana. “The true nature of the crime has been subjected to cover up. The conduct of the named accused and others as a lynching mob has been concealed. It has been projected as if the occurrence was sudden without any element of perpetrators having been acted as in conspiracy,” Jalaluddin submitted before the SC.
 
 It was also claimed that the offence under sections 153 (promoting enmity between different groups) and 505 (statements conducting to public mischief) of the   were excluded by the state police investigation to weaken the case.
 
 Earlier, while declining his plea for CBI probe, a bench headed by Justice Rajan Gupta observed that complainant has not been able to show that there were serious flaws in the investigation which would lead to the conclusion that same was shoddy or tainted. Dismissing the plea for CBI probe, single bench had also observed that there was nothing to show that the incident has any national or international ramifications.
 
 The trial of the case was at present pending before the Faridabad court. Junaid was stabbed in June 2017 on board a Mathura-bound train after an argument over a seat. The incident had turned into a religious slurs and triggered a mob attack on Junaid’s brother and two cousins on board the train between   and   in Haryana near Delhi.
 
 
