With the Supreme Court set to pronounce its verdict on the Cauvery water dispute today, farmers are keeping their fingers crossed, hoping that the apex court judgment will offer a permanent solution to the perennial problem. 

 The Cauvery dispute between Tamil Nadu and Karnataka has taken more twists and turns than most inter-state issues. Farmers in delta districts have lost Kuruvai cultivation owing to lack of Cauvery water for the last six years, and the standing samba paddy crop is withering away in the wake of the water crisis during the current season.
 
 The core issue has to be addressed on a permanent basis so that the livelihoods of the farmers are protected, says Cauvery S Dhanapalan, president, Cauvery   Association. The judgement could not radically differ from the earlier judgement of the Cauvery Water Dispute Tribunal, he said, adding, "The Supreme Court may bring small modifications in the way of sharing water systems. Delta farmers strongly believe we will get justice." 
 
 Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association Mannargudi S Ranganathan said the apex court had taken its time to deliver the verdict since it was a complicated case. 
 
 "Legally speaking, Tamil Nadu has the right of enjoyment of the river water for many reasons. Food security of Tamil Nadu strongly hinges on Cauvery water. We expect that the judgement would not have any political hue. I personally feel that Tamil Nadu's right will be established," he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, the secretary of the Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai R Vimalnathan said the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) is a neutral body with nothing to do with either riparian state. So, water would be properly distributed based on the final award, he hoped.
 
 Tamil Nadu farmers had already undergone a bitter experience when the Supreme Court asked the Centre to constitute the CMB, said the district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI Ayilai Sivasuriyan. When the BJP government in Karnataka rejected the Supreme Court’s order, the law did not take its own course, he said, adding that situation should not be repeated and the rule of law should be established.
 
 
