 is considered to be on of the most auspicious and widely celebrated occasions of the Hindu year. Falling on the fourteenth day of the Krishna paksh in the Hindu month of   (spring),this day marks the wedding anniversary of the most venerated Hindu Lord-Shiva and his consort Shakti/Parvati. Celebrating the union that is believed to have begot human existence, this day holds immense importance in the lives of devout Hindus and is observed throughout the country. The day is dedicated to fasting,followed by an elaborate worship (puja) session, having a duration of 6 hours which lasts for the entire night.Carrying all details apropos the occasion and its celebration, we bring to you the all inclusive guide to the festival of Maha shivratri.

 
 
 As has been mentioned above, the elaborate puja session spans over a god six hours and is divided into four parts which are called as the four 
 . The same procedure is repeated in every prahar and is followed by a short break during which bhajans or songs praising the lord are sung. Starting from 10 PM in the night, the session ends at 4 AM and the prahars are as follows -
 
 
 
 
 The prerequisites for the worship session include camphor tablets,incense stick(
 ), sandalwood paste,sesame seeds,
 milk,curd,honey,
 ,clothing and adornments,rice grains,
 ,lotus and marigold flowers, any white coloured flowers,seasonal fruits
  and matchsticks.
 
 
 In the worship session includes the worship of the entire family of Lord Shiva. Shiv and Parvati being the obvious ones,Lord 
 , Lord Ganesha and Nandi the bull together constitute the Shiva family.
 
 It follows five main steps that include -
 
 
 
 i refers to the act of purification. In this, incantations or mantras are chanted in order to ensure the cleansing of the physical environment and the ingredients used, which in turn will ensure a fulfilling worship experience.
 
 
 
 
 Not very different from the 
 , the 
  session consummates the act of cleansing in which water or jal is drunk by the people performing the rituals in order to purify themselves.
 
 The
  or bathing is the third step in which the deities are bathed, first with the holy waters of Ganges, then with
  followed by water again.
  which etymologically means the conglomeration of five elixirs, is a concoction made by mixing ghee,milk,curd,honey and gangajal, which are considered to be as pure and miraculous as ambrosia in the Hindu religion.
 
 Tilak is then applied on the foreheads of all deities and the sacred white thread, janehu, is placed. The deities are then dressed,adorned and offerings of seasonal fruits and flowers are made.
 
 This is followed by a havan and the same procedure is repeated in all the four prahars. It is then followed by a parikrama, which refers to walking in circles around the Gods and the distribution of 
 (holy offering).
 The 
  is an extremely important ritual which is performed towards the end of the worship session.
 
 
 The holy incantations that are recited during the performance of all the rituals are numerous. However the most important one, which eloquently describes the essence of the occasion is 
 , which includes the monosyllabic ‘Aum’ or the vibration of the universe, along with Lord Shiva’s name. Another mantra that includes Shiva and Parvati and is fit for the occasion has been given below.
 
 
 
 
