NEW DELHI: The Delhi government’s ambitious   to   1.4 lakh CCTV cameras has been further delayed. The  , which had floated tenders in November last year for the Rs 350 crore project, has had to float   as only   were   and only one was valid. 

 “We had received bids from two companies, but only one met the eligibility criteria. We have recalled the tender. We have diluted the criteria so that more companies can participate,” said Sarvagya Srivastava, engineer-in-chief, Delhi PWD.
 
 The government had initially allocated Rs 130 crore for the project. Later, it increased it to Rs 350 crore as it decided to install 2,000 cameras per assembly constituency.
 
 The eligibility conditions in the initial tender said: a) the bidder should have carried out a similar project, and the cost incurred by it in that project should be 40% of the current project cost (Rs 350 crore); or, b) it should have done two projects and the cost incurred on each project should be 30% of the current project cost.
 
  
  
 “We have now reworked the eligibility condition and slashed the cost of the previous project done by the company. Now, a company can apply if it has done a similar project and the cost incurred by it is 20% of the current cost. Companies that have done two such projects should have incurred 15% of the current project cost in each one; if it has done three, then the cost should be 10%,” said an official.
 
 The project has been hanging fire for a long time despite it being one of AAP’s priority initiatives. But PWD officials said they were hopeful of implementing a large part of the project by the end of this year. 
 
 “Though we have given a year’s time to the contractor to implement the project, we have set deadlines for phase-wise execution,” said an official.
 
 The project had picked up pace in September last year when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal held a meeting with PWD minister Satyendar Jain, the then PWD principal secretary Ashwani Kumar and senior PWD officials. Kejriwal had directed PWD to finalise the tender within two months. Jain had said the project would start by March or April 2018.
 
 PWD, meanwhile, flagged its concerns and suggested a few things regarding location, tendering process, maintenance and monitoring of CCTV cameras. It suggested that these be installed on high priority areas like arterial roads, markets, parks and other public places. 
 
 The last date to submit bids is January 27.
 
 
