HYDERABAD: It was a day when ministers and TRS leaders were effusive in heaping praises on K   and took their admiration for the chief minister to a new level for his   initiative.

 His daughter and Nizamabad MP K   set off the ‘lavish spree’ on Wednesday by describing KCR as “Bhola Shankar” – a moniker to convey that her father is an innocent person who always tries to help people. Agriculture minister Pocharam Srinivas Reddy took it up a notch further by terming the CM “Manasunna Maharaju” (a great king with a big heart). And son and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao summed it up beautifully by quoting a woman, “She referred to KCR as ‘pedda koduku’ (elder son).”
 
 At a Rythu Bandhu meeting at Dharpalle mandal in Nizamabad, Kavitha recalled how KCR had decided to waive off Rs 800 crore water cess that farmers had to pay. “He is always eager to do something for farmers. You know that our CM is a  ,” she said as the crowds cheered her. Kavitha had more words of praise. “Bakkaguntadu kani gatti manishi (He is thin and lean but is a strong man),” she said while referring to the decision he took on issuing new pattadar passbooks to farmers. “The passbook has 17 security features. That makes it a strong document, not something that can be printed at Chatta Bazar in Hyderabad,” she thundered.
 
 Not stopping at singing paeans in praise of the CM, Srinivas Reddy said the country needs KCR. “He is someone who the country needs badly,” he said and lauded him for giving Rs 8,000 per acre to farmers while addressing a meeting in   district.
 
 At the same function,   said the CM’s brainchild is showing amazing results. “I’ve heard of a daughter-inlaw taking better care of her mother-in-law because of the financial support that the mother-in-law is getting under Rythu Bandhu.”
 
 Speaking on a video of a woman which has gone viral in which she talks about the benefits of the scheme, he said: “The woman referred to KCR as pedda koduku,” explaining how KCR has won a place in the hearts of people.
 
