PATIALA: Police have booked eight persons for alleged   during the byelection of a ward of Patran municipal council in Patiala district on February 24, after a video of the criminal act went viral.

 Patran deputy superintendent of police (DSP)   said, “We are identifying the accused and have booked eight persons by name. Some others are unidentified. No government official is named. The alleged   workers have been named in the FIR registered based on the complaint of Shiv Chand. We will nab all the accused soon.”
 
 Meanwhile, SAD staged a protest on Monday against the police inaction against the alleged Congress workers named in the FIR lodged at Patran police station and the officials involved in the case. The party also demanded a repoll. Protesting   also gave a March 11 ultimatum to the state government to arrest all the accused involved in the incident.
 
 Sources revealed that some of the accused identified in the video by police are Jai Partap Singh Daisy, who was the Patran market committee chairman during the previous term of the Congress government, Suba Singh Selwala, Gulab Singh, Ankit Garg, Deepak Kumar and   and others. Police have registered a case against them and some unidentified persons under sections 131, 132, 134, and 135 (A) of the Representation of People Act.
 
 The district election officials have already written to the state election commissioner, asking for withholding of the bypoll results. The communiqué was sent following an inquiry into the allegations of booth capturing during voting. Patiala deputy commissioner-cum-district returning officer marked the inquiry after the video of booth capturing was surfaced a day after the polling.
 
 Patran returning officer (RO) Harbans Singh conducted a preliminary inquiry and found that a booth was captured by some persons in connivance with the poll officials. He submitted this report to the district returning officer, which was further sent for action to state poll panel. Apart from election officials, some cops on duty at the booth were also accused of conniving with the accused.
 
 
