KOLKATA: The   Railway rakes from CRRC Dalian in China will be maintained for two years after their arrival in Kolkata by engineers and technicians from Japan. With only a few months remaining for the arrival of the first rake, a team of Japanese engineers visited the Noapara carshed on Thursday to ascertain what equipment would be required to maintain the sophisticated coaches.

 
 Though the rakes are being manufactured in China, the electrical components will be supplied by Japanese firm  . Before the rakes physically start from China, the electrical systems will undergo a series of tests in Japan to ensure they are compatible with Kolkata’s existing network. While the rakes will remain in China, the tests will be carried out through simulation in Japan.
 
 “Since the Japanese firm will be in charge of maintenance and necessary repairs of the rakes during the Defects Liability Period (DLP) for the first two years, engineers from the country have visited our carshed in Noapara to find out the available facilities and whether specialized machinery would be required. After all, the main propulsion system for these rakes will be built in Japan. They are also taking measurements so that special equipment can be fitted to lift and lower the rakes during maintenance,” Metro Railway CPRO   said.
 
 The carshed at Noapara has been upgraded from time to time and efforts are on to modernize a portion on the lines of the   corridor’s depot at Salt Lake. However, while the Salt Lake depot has special jacks that can lift an entire rake of six coaches (for E-W Metro) together, the Noapara carshed has to rely on cranes.
 
 Till now, the only rakes they have maintained and repaired are the old non-AC and newer AC ones that aren’t as sophisticated as the ones that will arrive from China.
 
 “Our engineers and technicians will also work with the Japanese team and learn how to maintain the rakes. In two years, they will learn enough to work independently with the specialized equipment. On Friday, the Japanese team will visit the carshed at  ,” another Metro official said.
 
 After Dalian supplies 14 rakes to the Metro, another Chinese company — CSR Zhuzhou — will deliver 10 more.
 
