Amritsar: Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu has red-flagged Punjab Pollution Control Board’s (PPCB’s) analysis report of the Tung Bala Nullah flowing through Amritsar, saying that the board undervalued effluent levels in the drain.

 Sidhu demanded an inquiry into the procedure used for preparing the analysis report and that officials behind it be held acccountable. “I will take up the issue in assembly and discuss it with the chief minister,” Sidhu said.
 
 Sidhu, who was speaking to journalists at his home in Amritsar on Saturday, said the central government-funded National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), after it signed a memorandum of understanding with Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), was given the task of rejuvenating a 2.2km stretch of the drain. 
 
 He said the PPCB’s report claimed that only 12 industries were discharging treated water into the nullah and this was within permissible limits.
 
 Sidhu said Amritsar Smart City Limited (ASCL), however, noticed that there were some small-scale soap industries, apart from the 12 factories mentioned by PPCB, also discharging effluents into the drain and this could affect NEERI’s technology. “A letter was written to PPCB but its reply was still awaited,” he said.
 
 He said NEERI also took samples from the drain and the results showed that effluent levels were much higher than those mentioned in PPCB’s report. “Under these circumstances, NEERI could, at most, achieve 50% reduction of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) values,” he said.
 
 Sidhu addded that ASCL had now suggested to the PPCB to ensure that effluents being discharged into the canal were treated. “NEERI’s technology should be introduced only after all effluents are treated,” he said. “Only then will our efforts bear fruit.”
 
 The agreement was signed between PMIDC and NEERI in February this year. It is aimed at water and wastewater treatment, water bodies’ rejuvenation, solid-waste management, sludge treatment, urban ecosystem design, and capacity building in environment planning for architects, engineers and planners.
 
 ___
 
 FAR FROM REALITY
 
 Effluent | PPCB report | NEERI findings
 
 Biochemical oxygen demand | 30mg/litre | 160-409mg/litre
 
 Chemical oxygen demand | 250mg/L | 436-1,346 mg/L
 
 Total suspended solids | 100mg/L | 257-1,455mg/L
 
 
