KOLHAPUR: Hundreds of students and their parents descended on the streets on Tuesday morning to protest the state government's decision to close over 1,300 schools with less than 20 students. Out of 1,300 schools, 24 schools from the district will be closed as per the government's decision. 

 Some schools had morning classes, students from such schools participated in large numbers after classes were over. Police were deployed at many places.
 
 Students from Nehru High school, Rajaram High school in Kasba Bawada, Shri Prince Shivaji Vidyalay in   and   High school participated in the protest.
 
 Students holding up placards with messages condemning the state government's decision blocked the roads near their schools. The forum formed by activists against the state government's decision is carrying out protests for the last one month.
 
 It is gaining support from teachers, students and citizens. On Monday, police administration and district education department ordered heads of schools not to allow students to go outside the school premises during school hours.
 
 However, defying the order, students led by their parents went out on the streets at several places. Teachers however decided to stay away from the protest. Students sang their daily prayers and the national anthem standing in the middle of the road.
 
 Ramesh More, convener of ' ' said, "The administration had put immense pressure on schools and activists not to let the protests take place. However, students from schools in fringe areas with a strength varying from 300 to 500 came out onto the streets."
 
 More added, "We were told that we can't involve students in this. However, this is an issue related to students. The students are angry over the state government's decision as they care for other students studying in schools at remote places."
 
 "We are going to burn the orders issued to the heads of schools and to activists by the education department and the police prohibiting from participating in the protest on Wednesday. We are going to carry out a huge protest on March 23 under the leadership of veteran activist  ," said More.
 
 
