Jaisalmer: A gang involved in digging out hidden treasure from the ruins at  , the abandoned   village here, have been busted by the police. The gang used deep digging machinery to trace and dig out treasures that lay hidden under the ground in the village. Five persons have been arrested and interrogations are on.

 About 200 years ago, the Paliwal Brahmins had abandoned 84 villages here and left all their properties and money buried behind them in these villages. The wealth and goods lie buried here even today. On April 11, 1995, a group of foreign tourists using metal detectors has detected and excavated precious items here. A case was lodged against them in this regard which is under trial at a court here and the tourists group is wanted in this case.
 
 According to superintendent of police, Gaurav Yadav, information was received that some people were digging and taking out items gold and silver from Kuldhara and that they were planning using machines for the purpose. A special team was formed which caught the gang red-handed. Those arrested includes one Hasan Khan, resident of Dhanua, Fatan Khan, Rahim Khan, residents of Bikeri, Tan Singh resident of Badoda, Vikram Singh resident of   and recovered two metal detectors.
 
 Police say that the thieves are an interstate gang and that they have confessed to have committed dozens thefts at wind mill Rajashtan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. They have confessed to stealing copper from wind mills at Shyamgarh, Devas, Agar, Javra, Vidisha, Bairagarh at Madhya Pradesh, Dhamotara in Pratapgarh, Satara, Ahmadnagar and Pune in Maharashtra, police said.
 
 Around 23 years ago, three foreign tourists from America, Peru and Canada had found out buried treasure in a house with the help of metal detector and by digging the place took out over 100 silver coins and other jewellery. Police on getting the information arrested them and seized the treasure. The treasure is still at the government treasury and metal detector, spades, two walkie talkie and a motorcycle are still lying with the police station.
 
 Yadav confirming the old case and said three foreign citizens had found and dug out treasure from a house at Kuldhara village said that Canada resident Alexander, America resident George Donald Brick and Peru resident Cornazo had come to Jaisalmer for a visit. They had read about the history of Paliwal Brahmins in some book and through this book they came to know that while migrating from these villages, Paliwal Brahmins could not take away the jewellery and money kept buried in hurry.
 
 He said that when nearby villagers came to know about it, they informed police and district administration and then deputy SP Ashok Kumar Gupta arrested these three foreigners.
 
 
