MANALI: With  , hailstorms and rain lashing many parts of Himachal Pradesh on Tuesday; the inclement weather has destroyed crops, blocked roads and triggered landslides in some parts.

 
 The devastating hailstorms in Shimla district damaged apple crop and a thick white sheet of hailstones was seen spread across the city. Rainwater entered shops and houses in Shimla. Meanwhile, heavy   at Rohtang pass kept the Manali-Keylong highway closed for the second consecutive day. People in Manali, Lahaul-Spiti, Kinnaur and upper Chamba are feeling the cold of winter months and were seen wearing heavy woollens.
 
 At -0.3°C, Keylong, district headquarters of Lahaul-Spiti district, was the coldest inhabited place in Himachal, followed by Kalpa (2.4), Manali (5.4) and Shimla (9.8). Rohtang has received over 60cm of snow in the last 48 hours. Marhi and Keylong received 15cm and 5cm more snow, respectively. Higher regions of Kinnaur district also received fresh snow.
 
 Meanwhile, a rolling stone hit a car in Manikaran while the rain triggered a landslide near Jagatsukh village, bringing traffic to a standstill on the Kullu-Manali bypass. The landslide has also posed danger to a bridge on the highway as it has weakened its foundation. The debris was coming on national highway at many places between Kullu and Manali, following the rain. Given the possibility of thunderstorm and heavy rain in the next few days, Kullu administration has sounded an alert. Deputy commissioner Yunus has directed schools to stay in touch with the parents of students and ensure their safety during thunderstorm and rain. “People, especially tourists, should avoid going close to rivers and water streams as water level may rise any time,” he maintained.
 
 Rohtang remains closed for civilian movement every Tuesday and so tourists were not allowed to go beyond Gulaba. Two persons, identified as Sumit Sharma and Dinesh, both residents of Mandi district who work in a hotel in Manali, got stuck on a hill above Prini village near Manali on Monday night and were rescued at 1.30am. Despite inclement weather, both persons started hiking along Prini nullah and got stranded at a place.
 
 Farmers in Lahaul are sowing peas, potato and other vegetables these days and snowfall has brought worries to them. The forecast of   has also made apple growers of the state anxious.
 
 Meanwhile, Shimla received 58mm rain, Kalpa in Kinnaur 27mm rain while Kukumseri and Bharmaur received 24mm rain on Tuesday. Kangra (23mm), Reckong Peo (21mm), Manali (18mm), Chhatarari and Seobagh (15mm each), Salooni and Sarahan (14mm), Dalhousie (13mm), Narkanda and Kumarsain (12mm each), Banjar (9mm),  , Keylong, Chamba, Sangrah and Rampur (8mm each), Gaggal (7mm) and many other parts of the state received light showers, which were still continuing in many parts. Shimla meteorological centre has warned of thunderstorm with squall and hail in mid-hills on Wednesday.
 
