Gadchiroli: Gadchiroli police, who had earlier neglected to lift the dead bodies of slain Naxalites from Indravati River, on Tuesday retrieved 15 bodies after TOI had reported that 11 bodies were floating in the water. It included eight women cadres. With these, the toll in Sunday’s encounter at Rale-Kasnasur forest near Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border has gone up to 31, including 15 women. The police claimed to have eliminated six more Naxalite cadres, including two women, in another encounter in Nainer forest on Monday. Thus the cops have eliminated at least 37 cadres, including 17 women, in two days. Together the Naxalites carried a reward of Rs1.06 crore, including Rs76 lakh for those killed in first encounter. The encounter on the bank of Indravati River, conducted along with Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), is the biggest success of any security agency against the red rebels in the country. The previous highest for Gadchiroli police was around eight Maoists killed in December last year.  Senior officials have indicated the toll could be higher still as there is possibility of more bodies floating up in river. “The presence of crocodiles in the waters had halted recovery of some more weapons and bodies and one of the commandos escaped narrowly,” said an officer. Gadchiroli police, for reasons not known, had earlier decided to bring only 16 bodies from the place of encounter and declared that number to the media while keeping mum about possibilities of more Maoists having drowned in the river. When TOI reached the place with the help of some tribals from nearby hamlets, the decomposing bodies could be seen floating in crystal clear waters. TOI could also see the bodies of two women, one of which was semi-naked. Those have been recovered too. Seven more weapons too were found.  Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh said the commandos had to abandon the search on Sunday as there were only two squads holed up at a critical location. “The search operations had to be called off in the dark as there was a question of personnel’s safe return to the headquarters. In addition, rains had crippled the movement. We would continue the search with help of technology now,” he said. In a press conference held in Gadchiroli on Tuesday, Maharashtra police additional director general D Kanakratnam praised the forces and said this was a huge blow to Naxalite movement in South Gadchiroli from which it would not be able to recover. “It was result of good intelligence gathering and daredevilry of jawans,” he said. A press release issued at the event said the forces had come under heavy and indiscriminate fire from a group of 40-50 Maoists and had retaliated. It claimed similar circumstances for the second encounter which it involved 10-12 rebels of whom six were gunned down.  Of the 37 dead, only 16 have been identified so far. Police said several senior cadres were among the dead as they released names of those already identified.  The elimination of Naxalites in such large number will release tribals from their terror and help push development works in Aheri and Sironcha talukas of Gadchiroli, the release added.