PATNA: The World Bank-funded Ganga riverfront development project has been delayed for the second time. The initial deadline for this dream project of CM   was June 2016, which was revised to June this year and, if officials are to be believed, the deadline to complete the project will be extended by another six months. The project cost is also likely to be revised.

 Senior officials of   (Buidco), the agency of state urban development and housing department which is executing the project, said the project would be completed by the end of this year.
 
 The riverfront project entails development of 6.6km-long and 15ft-wide walkway along 20 ghats in the city which will have amenities like decorative street lamps, public lavatories, 500 seating benches and green cover. The CM had laid the foundation for the project on February 12, 2014.
 
 “The beautification work at 16 ghats, including upgradation of roads, construction of toilets, changing rooms, water kiosks and installation of benches and street lights, has already been completed. The audio-visual theatre near Gandhi Ghat has also been constructed,” a senior Buidco official associated with the project said.
 
 He added, “Of the 6.6km of promenade along 20 ghats, only the stretch of around 500 metres is left to be covered. We are aiming to complete this stretch by the end of June. Work to construct 4.7km long promenade on land and 250-metre-long elevated bridge has also been completed. More than 60% of the work for construction of a crematorium building between Collectorate Ghat and   has been completed. The remaining work will be completed within the next two months. Work on Alamganj Ghat, Pathri Ghat, Chaudhary Tola Ghat and Loharwa Ghat is currently underway. Also, some changes will be made in the proposed plan to make slight diversion in the passage of water near B N College Ghat.”
 
 Citing reasons for delay in the project, the official said, “We usually stop the work during monsoon due to flood threat. Land acquisition is another big hurdle. However, required land has been acquired for the project.” He added the original expenditure of the project, which was pegged at Rs 254 crore, would be revised.
 
 The project is divided into four precincts. The first precinct covers riverfront between Collectorate Ghat and Mahendru Ghat, the second between Mishri ghat and Patna College ghat, the third between Gandhi Ghat and Rani Ghat and the fourth between Bhadra Ghat and Nauzar Ghat.
 
