EDINBURGH:   introduced minimum unit pricing on alcohol on Tuesday as it tries to improve public health by raising the cost of cheap, strong drinks that are favoured by young people and binge-drinkers. “Scotland is the first country in the world being bold and brave enough to introduce minimum unit pricing,” Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon said.

 
 “I think we will see countries across Europe and further afield look to replicate what has been done here in Scotland,” she added, noting Ireland and Wales were eager to roll out similar schemes.
 
 “All of the evidence says that minimum unit pricing will reduce deaths from alcohol-related illnesses, reduce hospital admissions and generally reduce the damage that alcohol misuse does to our society,” she said. The policy, designed to cut alcohol-related harm, will set a minimum price of 50 pence (Rs 45) per unit (10ml) of alcohol. It has been welcomed by the medical profession and health campaigners as the biggest breakthrough in public health since the ban on smoking in public.
 
 “This legislation will be life-saving,” said Alison Douglas, chief executive of the  , who predicted it would save 58 lives in the first year.
 
 Audrey Duncan, 37, a recovering alcoholic from Glasgow whose life was devastated by the addiction, said the cheap price of booze had helped fuel it. “I don’t think it (minimum pricing) would have put me off but I certainly would have run out of money quicker,” she added.
 
 Retailers said they expected minimal hits on some stock but had long been anticipating the scheme. Linda Williams, proprietor of a store in Edinburgh, said it could “even out the playing field between supermarkets and local shops”. “There will be no more heavy discounting on spirits and on big packs of beer which really have caused all the problems in the first place with alcohol,” she added.
 
 Research by alcohol-concern charities showed that almost three-quarters of Scotland’s alcohol is bought from supermarkets and shops.
 
 The plan finally came into force this week after years of court wrangling delayed its introduction. Britain’s Supreme Court last year backed the Scottish government’s move, declining an appeal by the   and other industry representatives to strike it down. Seven judges in London unanimously ruled that such pricing is “a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim” and does not breach European Union law. That ended a halfdecade legal battle which had gone to the   in 2015.
 
