Shimla: A Shimla court on Tuesday extended the judicial custody of all nine police officials, including former IGP Zahur H Zaidi, former Shimla SP D W Negi and former DSP (Theog) Manoj Joshi, in the Kotkhai custodial death case till February 5.

 On August 29, 2017, the CBI had arrested eight police officials of Himachal Pradesh, including Zaidi who was heading the Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the gangrape and murder of a minor girl in Kotkhai, the then DSP (Theog) Manoj Joshi, then SHO of Kotkhai police station SI Rajender Singh, ASI Deep Chand, three head constables Surat Singh, Mohan Lal and Rafi Mohammad and constable Ranjit Satreta. Negi was arrested on November 16, 2017.
 
 The CBI in its investigation had also found that these police officials conspired following the death of Suraj Singh in police custody on the night of July 18, 2017.
 
 The investigation had revealed that that on July 18 night, the police team comprising SHO Rajender Singh; ASI Deep Chand Sharma; three head constables and a constable allegedly tortured Suraj Singh under the supervision of DSP Manoj Joshi. In the process to compel Suraj to confess to the crime, they inflicted multiple injuries on Suraj, resulting into his death.
 
 Suraj Singh was one of the alleged accused arrested by police in connection with the gangrape and murder of a minor girl in Kotkhai area of Shimla district whose body was found on July 6, 2017, morning.
 
 The Shimla police on its part had claimed that Suraj was killed inside the police lock up by Rajinder Singh alias Raju, who was dubbed as the main accused in the case related to the gangrape and murder of minor girl in Kotkhai area.
 
 The second postmortem report by AIIMS New Delhi had revealed that injuries on the Suraj’s body were caused due to severe torture in police custody before his death.
 
 The medical board had concluded that injuries on the body were caused by a blunt hard cylindrical object such as lathi, rod or baton. “Such severe and wanton inflictions are confirmatory of custodial torture resulting into death,” it added.
 
 Suraj’s death inside the police lockup had triggered public outburst and violent protest demonstration in Kotkhai on July 19, 2017 following which the case was handed over to the CBI.
 
 
