Hyderabad: A day after cab aggregator   announced that it will be “doubling down” on its investments in India, the company indicated that it will not be spreading its operations thin and wide in India but will rather deepen its operations in the existing cities.

 Uber India and South Asia president Amit Jain said it is very unlikely that Uber will be expanding its geographical presence by cruising into more number of cities and might restrict its entry to three new centres in India this year. Uber currently operates in 31 cities in India.
 
 “Our focus in not on expansion in new cities, our focus will be on going deeper into the cities we are in. Our belief is that in any city, the number of trips that a city does and the number of trips that are done on the Uber platform…we are less than 1% of the total number of trips that are done. So, the opportunity in these cities is much more... the opportunity is there of how many more trips can be done in a shared way…,” he added.
 
 He also pointed out that across India Uber registers three lakh active driver partners on its platform every week and the number is growing “exponentially”.
 
 On being grilled about the discontentment of riders over its surge pricing mechanism and why Uber does not cut its commission, he said, “For the last three years, we have not taken a single cent of our share… let me be very clear on that. We have a 20% commission that is there in our standard markets. (In India) We have given all of that money back to drivers or as lower prices … we have not taken a single rupee of share in the last three or four years of operations here,” he said.
 
 He pointed out that Uber is in the “investment mode” for the “foreseeable future” in India. India accounts for more than 10% of Uber rides globally and the US company has an over than 35% share of the Indian taxi market, according to Counterpoint Research.
 
 Speaking about the Hyderabad centre of excellence (CoE), he said there are 2,500 staff members, including an engineering team of around 150, and the number is expected to grow 2X over the next one to two years.
 
 
