NAGPUR: Sounding critical of various economic policies the central government has rolled out over a period of time, senior journalist and   on Monday pointed out many loopholes and highlighted improper implementation. 

 Speaking on ‘Consequences of India’s economic policies’ at a lecture organized by Rajhans Prakashan and Dr Dande Foundation at   hall, Kuber shared his views on major steps the government has taken for enhancing finances, controlling inflation, boosting manufacturing and ease of doing business. He spoke at length on demonetisation and Goods and   (GST), farm loan waiver and job creation to drive home his point. 
 
 GST was rolled out with a slogan of ‘One Nation, One Tax’. But it seems it does not stick to what has been spoken of as taxes have been fragmented into different slabs of 0%, 5%, 12%, 18% and 28%, depending upon the category of products, he said.
 
 Moreover, not all the products are included in GST. Alcohol and petroleum products have been purposely kept out of GST purview as the state governments generate a lot of revenue through it, he said. They are the main source of income for the states. They don’t want to be at loss as the state governments collect up to Rs24,000 crore and Rs50,000 crore from petroleum and liquor respectively, Kuber said. 
 
 Taking a shot on the confusing implementation and its repercussions, Kuber said, “The government of Jammu and Kashmir faced a fiscal deficit and had to seek an overdraft from the Centre to pay wages to government employees.”
 
 Kuber also spoke about Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s poll promise of waiving loans of farmers. He said, “At the time of Uttar Pradesh elections, the Prime Minister had announced to waive off loans if the BJP was voted to power. A similar kind of reassurance over the issue was given in some other states too, including Maharashtra, during the poll campaign. But union finance minister   ruled out such waivers by the Centre, saying the states can utilize their own resources for the purpose.”
 
 “The Prime Minister has decided to double the income of farmers by 2022. Efficient measures and proper fiscal arithmetic could have made a difference in improving the condition, but looking at the budgetary provisions for 2018, it seems impossible to achieve the target unless the agricultural growth reached 12%. But such chances appear remote.”
 
 
