CHANDIGARH:  , company that runs the city’s paid-parking lots, said here on Saturday that the municipal corporation had not done enough to stop illegal   and this violation had increased since it got the contract.

 The company accused the civic body of handing over parking lots before laying proper infrastructure, re-carpeting roads, and installing electricity connection. “They (the municipal authorities) should have delivered us these prerequisites on time,” a company representative said.
 
 The company representatives didn’t have clear answers to questions about the anomalies in the paid parking system that commuters have been reporting. It agreed that there were problems indeed but claimed it had implemented a better system of paid parking than the one that ran earlier.
 
 Confronted about haphazard parking and choked lots in almost all key commercial markets of the city, Arya Toll Infra director   said: “There are some problems in the system and we are committed to solving those. It is for this purpose that we are coming up with a flying squad, a feedback system, and display boards inside the lots. Since there were lapses to being with on the part of the  , the parking rates were increased in December last year instead of last October.”
 
 Badlani refused to make any comment on his possible reaction if the general house of the municipal corporation rejects the enhanced parking fee in its meeting on Monday. He said he hoped that the MC will keep all issues in mind, mainly that the civic body itself had approved the new parking charges. When the MC general house meets on Monday, the functioning of the paid parking lots and the increase in the parking charges will be crucial issues to be discussed.
 
 The municipal commissioner has constituted a five-member review committee that includes the mayor, and asked the finance and contract committee (F&CC) to file an inspection report on the state of paid-parking lots. Both teams have visited the lots and complied their reports that will be tabled before the house on Monday.
 
 
