BENGALURU: Chunavana, the first-of-its-kind app launched by the state election commission, to help citizens find polling stations and assembly constituencies, came in handy for many voters.

 Sharanya K, a resident of   and first-time voter, said she could not only track her polling station easily and but also got details of contesting candidates on her mobile phone which helped her make an informed choice.
 
 Another voter,   (name changed) in  , didn’t have a voter’s slip when she went to the polling booth. She entered her EPIC number on the app and was able to prove to booth officials that she was a bona fide voter. They were able to cross-check with the electoral list with them and allowed her to vote.
 
 Using the app, available on Google Play Store and iOS, voters could navigate to polling stations with ease. Joint chief electoral officer   said it’s the first time in the country that such an app has been developed. “We mapped over 56,000 polling booths across   and brought them on to the web and mobile platforms,” he added.
 
 Other salient features of the app include GIS view of the whole state and its polling stations, navigation to polling station by entering voter ID details, information on queue status at polling stations, contact details of election officials and the nearest police station and health centre. It also helped voters book wheelchairs in advance for senior citizens and the differently abled.
 
 However, the app was not free of glitches when it mattered most. The web platform failed to give regular updates on polling percentage. “Even the option to check queues at polling stations was not reflecting properly,” said   BN, a resident of Pulakeshinagar. He added that the app crashed every now and then.
 
 The app was developed after assessing the needs of the public identified through a focused survey. About 25% of those who didn’t vote said they were not aware of their polling stations. Also, 17.5% urban voters who did not vote blamed it on long queues, while 7.5% said they were unaware of candidates and constituencies. The app was developed by the Karnataka State Remote Sensing Application Centre.
 
