BAREILLY:   on Thursday demolished as many as 66 encroachments on the roads of Kutubkhana and   areas of the city, clearing the way for better movement of traffic.
 
  Officials at BMC said the drive against illegal encroachments was carried out amid opposition from shopkeepers and encroachers whose illegal counters and shops, boundary wall and slabs were demolished. The BMC anti-encroachment squad was accompanied by a heavy posse of policemen to ensure the demolition was carried out peacefully.
  
  Speaking with TOI, municipal commissioner   said, “Though BMC’s anti-encroachment drive has been is in full swing for over a month now, we are yet to cover the inner areas of the city. Kutubkhana and Quila are among the worst affected areas with massive encroachments for quite a long time now. The stretch is already congested and witnesses traffic snarls on a regular basis. Encroachments here have been a major issue for locals and passersby for long. Hence, the drive was launched and BMC’s anti-encroachment squad razed to the ground as many as 66 encroachments in Kutubkhana and Quila phatak.”
  
  Shrivastava added, “The violators whose encroachments were demolished had been warned that the civic body would not be lenient and any type of encroachment, big or small, that obstructs free flow of traffic or is a hindrance to pedestrians or is in violation of civic rules will be immediately razed.” 
  
  Jaipal Patel, in charge of the BMC’s anti encroachment squad, said, “A total of 66 encroachments were demolished by BMC. It included a cloth house, illegal slabs outside jewelry shops, religious places and general stores, illegal boundary walls and stairs outside shops, tin-sheds and temporary counters and stalls over drains.”
  
  During the anti-encroachment drive which continued for almost three hours, environmental engineer  , anti-encroachment squad members along with police personnel from Kotwali and Quila police stations remained present.
  
  Earlier, the civic body had announced that it would soon start levying spot fines on showroom owners and shopkeepers for allowing encroachments to take place outside their respective premises. The decision by civic officials was taken following repeated reoccupation of evicted spaces by the street vendors.
