HUBBALLI: People of   are pinning their hopes on chef minister H D   holding   at the house in   which he took on rent two years ago.

 Kumaraswamy, then JD(S) state president, had taken the house at Mayakar Colony near Byaridevarkoppa in Hubballi on rent on 26/4/2017 with the sole intention of galvanizing his party in north Karnataka by living in Hubballi. Although he did live in the house for a few days, he returned to Bengaluru citing health reasons. 
 
 The house was gradually confined to holding press conferences whenever Kumaraswamy visited Hubballi.
 
 Kumaraswamy continues to be the tenant of the house and residents say he should stay here at least one day a month and hold a Janata Darshan to listen to people’s woes. They say the house presents a good opportunity for the chief minister to get close to the people of north Karnataka and address the burning issues of the region.
 
 Dr M C Sindhur, a civic activist told TOI, “The rented house should be converted into a temporary CM’s office or be used as the central point to interact with people of north Karnataka to address their grievances. It could help people of Belagavi, Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, Vijayapura, Bagalkot, Davanagere and other parts of Mumbai-Karnataka to meet the chief minister personally at his Hubballi residence to discuss their problems instead of travelling to Bengaluru.”
 
 “Kumaraswamy should come to Hubballi and stay in this house and handle crucial issues of north Karnataka in presence of the officials concerned. Some projects like BRTS, 24x7 drinking water, streamlining of UGD network are still going on at a snail’s pace in the absence of strong leadership. If Kumaraswamy stays here for one or two days a month, all these projects might get the much needed boost and officials will complete works within a deadline,” he added.
 
 Vikas Soppin, a social worker and Srikanth Mugajikondi, a businessman said Kumaraswamy should hold Janata Darshan in Hubballi on the lines of Janata Darshan at his official residence in Bengaluru.
 
 
