Hyderabad: In a big boost to the power sector in the state, renewable energy giant   has expressed interest in setting up a power plant, the Telangana government said in a release.

 State IT and industries minister K T Rama Rao met Suzlon Group chairman Tulsi Tanti on the sidelines of the World Economic Forum (WEF) at Davos, where Tanti expressed interest in setting up a power plant in Telangana. “In order to strengthen the farming sector in Telangana, the state needs to generate more power. Suzlon Group is one of the leading renewable energy solutions providers in the world with an international presence across 18 countries in six continents,” the release quoted Tanti as having said. The Telangana government did not mention any additional details about the proposed project in the release. Suzlon Group in January 2016 announced its foray into the solar sector by winning 210 MW solar power projects in Telangana. Meanwhile, the Telangana delegation led by KTR also met Indra Nooyi, chairperson and CEO of PepsiCo, Marc Benioff, CEO of Salesforce, and Amy E Weaver, president of Salesforce, and Erik Ekudden, Group CTO of Ericsson and Bernard Charlès, CEO of Dassault Systèmes. Promoting Telangana at Davos, the state IT and industries minister, KT Rama Rao, participated in a session on ‘leveraging digital to deliver value to society’ alongwith other government leaders. The session included panelists such as the deputy PM of Belgium and ministers from Denmark, Nigeria, Portugal, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, Myanmar, and Brazil.
 
 In the session, KTR highlighted the Telangana Fiber Grid project that aims at providing internet connections to every household in the state.
 
 In another session organized by ‘Invest India’ on ‘Developing an R&D Ecosystem in India,’ KTR spoke about the Research and Innovation Circle of Hyderabad (RICH) that acts as a platform to bridge the gap between industry and top notch research institutes of the country to foster innovation.
 
 This apart, he held parleys with Al Gore, former US vice-president, and explained to him the ‘Haritha Haram’ programme of Telangana government that aims to improve green cover in the state.
 
 
