The latest episode of   begins with the robbers hurting Rakhi. Seeing this, Karan and   get into a fight with them and start beating them up. Everybody gets scared but soon the tables turned and the robbers start hitting Rishabh and Karan. They hit Rishabh really hard and one of the robbers hits Karan with the bottle. Karan starts bleeding and falls down. Rakhi and family start crying and go and sit beside Karan.

 Preeta holds Karan and starts crying. She scolds the robbers and asks them to stop fighting. Prithvi asks Sherlyn whether he should go and act like a hero and fight with the robbers. He feels that the robbers are none other than the ones he had hired. After seeing Rishabh and Karan, Sherlyn asks Prithvi to jump into the fight and save the entire family like a hero. Prithvi starts hitting the robbers as planned. He asks them to go away and tries to scare them. The robbers act scared and fall on Prithvi's feet and suddenly start laughing. Prithvi wonders what is wrong with them.
 
 In return, the robbers start bullying Prithvi. The latter manages to see the face behind the mask of the robber and realizes that the gang of robbers was not the ones he had hired but are the real ones. He asks them to take all the gold and jewellery that they want from the Luthra house. Sherlyn wonders what went wrong with Prithvi and his heroic attitude.
 
 
  
 Further, the robbers collect all of the jewelry and plan to escape. Meanwhile, Mahesh gets the chance to sneak out of the house and calls the ACP. The Police say that they will be reaching the Luthra house as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the robbers ask for Preeta's ring. Preeta pleads them to let that ring be with her as it is the last memory of her father but the robbers don't care about her emotions. They keep demanding for the ring and say that they will not leave a single gold item behind. When Preeta still refuses to give away the ring, one of the robbers asks for a knife to cut it off. Everybody gets scared. Sarla and Srishti ask Preeta to give in to the robbers' demand.
 
