BENGALURU:   have been accused of attempting to hush up the case of heinous assault by the elder son of   N A Haris and others, by deliberately making the complainant wait for nearly four hours in the station before registering an FIR, even as the victim, Vidvat L, lay injured in the ICU of a nearby hospital.

 According to Ramesh Gowda, a close friend of Vidvat’s father Lokanath and a JD(S) leader, police asked them to wait when they reached the police station around 11.45pm Saturday, to file the complaint.
  
  
 “I rushed to   as soon as I came to know about the attack on Vidvat on Saturday night. Later, I went to Cubbon Park police station to file a case with Lokanath, Vidvat’s friend Praveen Venkatachalaiah and others. But police did not register a case, and made us wait for around four hours before they took up the case,” Gowda alleged.
 
 The complaint copy claims it was submitted at 11.45pm, but the FIR was registered only at 3.30am.
  
  
 K Gautham Kumar, BJP corporator from Jogupalya ward, said he was with the complainant at the police station. Kumar said the police did not act swiftly on the complaint and ended up helping the main accused, Mohammed Nalapad Haris, escape.
 
 Gowda pointed out that the same police acted with undue haste when a counter-complaint was sought to be filed by a supporter of Md Haris, five minutes after their FIR was registered. “Arun Babu, a friend of the MLA’s son, came to the police station soon after they learnt that a case had been registered against him. Babu filed a complaint alleging that Vidvat assaulted him under the influence of alcohol in the same hotel. Police did not waste a single minute, and registered the counter-complaint,” he said.
 
  
 In fact, Cubbon Park police also shot off a letter to the medical officer of Mallya Hospital, requesting that Vidvat be examined for alcohol consumption and a report be submitted. “Arun Babu has filed a complaint against Vidvat. Babu alleges that Vidvat assaulted Babu under the influence of alcohol at Farzi Café in UB City. So, please examine whether Vidvat admitted in the ICU of your hospital has consumed alcohol or not and submit a certificate about the findings,” the letter from the Cubbon Park police inspector reads. The letter is believed to have reached the hospital early Sunday
 
 
 
  and father alleged that Cubbon Park police toned down charges against Md Haris and his supporters by intentionally avoiding booking him under IPC Sec 307 for ‘attempt to murder’ despite sufficient grounds available to invoke the section.
 
 Ramesh Gowda and K Gautham Kumar alleged that they had demanded that police include Sec 307 but police told them there was nothing to warrant invocation of the ‘attempt to murder’ charge.
 
 Home minister R Ramalinga Reddy later said that he had directed police to include Sec 307 against Md Haris and gang. “MLA N A Haris himself has said we should invoke Sec 307,” Reddy claimed.
 
 “We will take additional statements about the incident from the victim and the complainant, and include IPC Sec 307,” a police officer said.
 
 Ganapati Prasanna, a former public prosecutor, told TOI that the original complaint by Praveen Venkatachalaiah explained that the gang led by the MLA’s son had assaulted Vidvat mercilessly, and hit him with bottles. “Everyone knows that hitting a man with bottles can lead to death. So this is enough for police to register a murder attempt,” Prasanna said.
 
 
