PATNA: After showing an upward trend for 10 days in a row, petrol prices in city came down from Rs 83.01 per litre on Wednesday to Rs 82.94 per litre on Thursday. Diesel, however, continued to burn holes in the pockets of residents as it was sold at Rs 73.22 per litre on Thursday, up 23 paise from Rs 72.99 per litre on Wednesday.

 The record rise in fuel prices has irked commuters.  , who was seen getting the tank of his scooty filled at a petrol pump near Boring Road crossing, said, “I reside at   and my office is near Gandhi Maidan. It is difficult for me to take public transport to office in this hot and humid weather. I have no other option but to ride my scooty despite rise in fuel prices.”
 
 Slamming the government for its failure to check prices of petroleum products, Raj Kumar, another commuter, said, “Since the government lacks proper strategy, burden on citizens has increased. I run a wholesale shop on Govind Mitra Road. Usually, I go to different places in the city for business purposes. However, rise in petrol prices has forced me to remain confined to my shop.”
 
 President of   Petroleum Dealers’ Association Prabhat Kumar Sinha has blamed rise in prices of international crude oil for the current situation. “Prices of petroleum products vary from state to state depending on local taxes and VAT. As a temporary solution, the Centre is likely to cut excise duty on petrol and diesel in a bid to reduce the fuel prices by at least Rs 3 or 4 per litre. However, the gradual increase of 20-30 paise per litre will continue if the government fails to come up with a long term solution,” Sinha said.
 
 He added states like Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan have high fuel prices than Bihar. “In Delhi, West Bengal, Jharkhand and  , where the local tax or VAT is comparatively cheaper, the prices are, to some extent, under control,” Sinha said.
 
 D M Diwakar, the head of economics division at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, said, “The crude oil prices on Thursday (May 24) were US $72.03 against US $72.86 per barrel on Wednesday. However, in Indian cities, prices of petrol and diesel have not fallen. The Centre is prioritizing the needs of corporates instead of individual consumers. In the cabinet meeting held on Wednesday, nothing had been planned to bring down fuel prices in the country. The cascading effect of increasing petroleum prices will soon be visible on other commodities, including vegetables, fruits and foodgrain.”
 
 
