Paramakudi: Every year, sleepy   hits headlines during the   and  . As is the case during the rest of the year, this town in   district wears a deserted look even on the eve of its son actor Kamal Haasan’s political entry. Kamal will have a stopover at Paramakudi on Wednesday on his way from former President APJ Abdul Kalam’s house to the public meeting venue at  .

 Barring a few small hoardings and posters and a simple make-shift stage that is coming up, there is no festivity on display. But Paramakudi residents have love and affection in abundant measure for Kamal. Before he was launched as a child artiste in 'Kalathur Kannamma', which brought him laurels and set him firmly on an acting career that would last decades, he did schooling here.
 
 "But for him, Paramakudi would have remained just a dot on India’s map. Today, people around the world know about our town. Kamal gave us that identity," says a government school teacher, who prefers to be known by his pen name, Malarmaindhan. He is also the coordinator of Kamal's fans clubs in the region.
 
 "It is the right time for him to enter politics,” said N Thamilarasu, a physical education teacher and an ardent “devotee” of the actor. His only worry is that Kamal has the habit of speaking his mind. Would that augur well for the actor in politics is his concern. Thamilarasu now owns the house, which earlier belonged to Kamal’s late father, D Seenivasan, a respectable lawyer in the town. Kamal grew up there. "It was not pre-planned. It just happened in 2005. I get elated when Kamal's fans from far and near visit my house. Strange are their ways; some even kiss the floor," he says.
 
 People do not have high expectations. "So far, the choice has been between the two Dravidian parties. Let there be a new alternative. Kamal will genuinely care for the welfare of the poor and needy. We do not want freebies, but someone who will protect us from steep increase in prices of essentials," says Ravishankar, a sugarcane juice vendor.
 
 "  has been practising healthy politics. He is neither left nor right and that's what Tamil Nadu needs. He holds Dravidianism in high esteem and that makes people like me happy," points out writer N S Perumal, a Dravidian historian.
 
 For 85 year-old V P Shankar, an artist and a family friend of Kamal's father since his Sarvodaya Sangam days, Haasan's transition from a successful star to a politician is quite natural.
 
 
