Stories of Bengaluru running dry have been making headlines since last year. Summer is here, and water shortage is a staple feature this time of year. Despite being aware of the fact that the water level in the city has depleted, most of us seem to feign ignorance and have done little-to-nothing to conserve water on an everyday basis. Conservation on an individual level is the need of the hour, but many think that recycling and reusing water is a tedious process, which requires a large investment. On World Water Day, Bengaluru’s rainman   — senior scientist at the  , and   — shatters that belief.

 
 
  has been mandatory since the BWSSB Act was amended in 2009. Despite this, it is not widely implemented. “There are two options for rainwater harvesting — one is to store water in sumps and reuse it, and the other is to recharge ground water. One can do both, of course,” says Shivakumar. But how much investment does this require? “When it comes to storing water, the size of the sump should be such that for every square meter, you should store 20 litres of water. If you already have a sump at home, then all that is required is a one-time investment of Rs 10,000. All you need to do thereafter is maintain the quality of filter; it does not need to be replaced. If you don’t have a sump, then setting one up will cost you around Rs 6-Rs 10 per litre. So, building a tank of 5,000 litres should cost around Rs 30,000-Rs 50,000. But again, that’s a one-time investment,” he says.
 
 
 
 If you don’t want to reuse the water, then instead of letting the rainwater literally go down the drain, you can use it to replenish the ground water. This requires the building of a small pit that is three feet in diameter, and a well that is a minimum of 10 feet deep. This will set you back by around Rs 20,000. But once the pit and well are dug, you don’t have to worry about any further investments,” adds Shivakumar. When either of these methods of harvesting are used, a minimum of 30% of total rainwater can be saved in a year. Which method you choose (ideally, you should do both) depends on how much space you have available at home.
 
 
 
 Apart from this, there are several other simple methods to save water every day. The obvious ones are to not keep the tap running while brushing and shaving; using a bucket for your bath instead of a shower (you’ll be surprised that all you need is around half a bucket); fixing leaky pipes, and using low-flow water faucets. Apart from this, you can reuse water from the washing machine, RO water purifiers and kitchen sink. Shivakumar tells us how:
 
 
