NOIDA: In the wake of a detailed order by the   on May 17 directing the Amrapali group to complete and deliver the pending projects on a water-tight schedule, the builder on Monday stated that it has started the process to hand over the papers and maps to the three co-builders who have been appointed to complete the pending projects. However, the handover process itself will take 45 days, the group said.

 “We have received the order on May 21 and will need 30-45 days to mobilise the handover. The period of completion given by the Supreme Court includes this mobilising period,” said a company official. The three builders selected for the completion of the pending projects are Galaxy Dream Homes, India Infoline and Kanodia Business Pvt. Ltd. The pending projects have been divided into four baskets for completion. A minute timeline has been drawn for executing the same.
 
  
  
 The builder has also been asked by the apex court to deposit Rs 250 crore by June 15 with the court’s treasury as security. The amount is supposed to be deposited in an escrow account with the UCO bank branch on the Supreme Court premises.
 
 Meanwhile, the buyers who have been waiting for a resolution on the pending flats, continued to press for immediate activation of construction work.
 
 “Enough time has been wasted and it has been a week since the final hearing. Work on the project sites should have been started by now,”  , general secretary,   (Nefowa), said.
 
 The builder has been instructed to sell its unencumbered properties and high value holding to generate liquidity for the deposit due to the court.
 
 The court has ordered the formation of a committee for monitoring the work progress. The committee is expected to constitute an architect representing builder, a structural engineer, a chartered accountant representing the developer, an architect representing buyer and a chartered accountant representing buyers.
 
 As for apartments which are yet to be sold and available in inventory, the court has allowed the present buyers eight weeks in case they want to swap their present apartments with any other from those available on other projects.
 
 
