In the aftermath of the violent protests against Sterlite copper smelter in Tuticorin which resulted in police firing that left several dead, Japan’s ambassador to India, Kenji Hiramatsu says “safety and security” of investments and people is a concern for overseas investors. Expressing interest in furthering Japanese business in the state, he tells D Govardan in an   about how incentives and a stable setup will draw more industries. Excerpts:

 
 
 I don’t want to comment on the political situation. Of course, everyone would like to have a stable and safe environment and that is what everyone will look for in a state. While I do not want to comment about what’s going on here at present, as a principle, safety and security of investments and the people are definitely something of concern.
 
 
 
 Again, I don’t want to comment on the political situation here. But, the present government is very helpful and the state is keen to support Japanese industries. I met the Tamil Nadu chief minister and he expressed that the state is keen to help Japanese companies looking to come here with investment plans.
 
 
 
 
 I think Tamil Nadu is a recognition of ties for Japanese investments and there are many more companies looking at doing business in this state. There are three ongoing Japanese industrial township projects and a few more companies looking at opportunities, especially in developing industrial townships. We know that India is a big market and a stable, flourishing democracy. Hence, Japanese companies, not only big, but also small and medium ones, are looking at coming to India.
 
 
 
 Tamil Nadu is traditionally home for the manufacturing sector and we have big companies like Nissan here. We would like to have more companies looking at that sector. At the same time, service and retail sectors offer scope and there are lot more sectors to look at from an investment stand point. We hope some structured support like incentives from the state government and improvements in terms of infrastructure can go a long way in attracting more industries.
 
 
 
 Not only this state, other states in the country too have infrastructural issues such as proper roads, electricity, ports and others. I think Tamil Nadu is at a different level, but we hope that it will provide better infrastructure. Also some kind of support incentives is an area that investors will be keenly looking at.
 
 
