CHANDIGARH: Amid the rising demand for amendment to Article 25-B of the Constitution to grant separate identity to Sikhs and the fear of losing reservation by SCs among Sikhs, most of the legal luminaries are of the view that the status of SCs would not be affected. 

 Former advocate general of   and   says after the amendment to the Article the list of SCs/BCs/STs is correspondingly amended automatically. "After an amendment is introduced in Article 25-B, there will be a formal amendment to the Presidential order, declaring Majbi Sikhs to be SCs. There is no difficulty at all," he opines.
 
 The Constitution (Scheduled Castes) order-1950 reads, "No person who professes a religion different from the Hindu (Sikh or Buddhist) religion shall be deemed to be a member of a Scheduled Caste." Under this order, as many as 37 castes in   were declared SCs, including Majbi, Ramdasia and Ravidassia.
 
 Another former advocate general of Punjab and Haryana Harbhagwan Singh is of the opinion that to continue granting reservation to existing groups among Sikhs there is just a requirement of amendment to the law for a separate provision after the Sikhs get separate identity. "No government can afford to annoy such a big section of population by taking away reservation. The government will not be able to stand the pressure of agitations and political repercussions," says Harbhagwan.
 
 Senior advocate of the Punjab and Haryana high court Gurminder Singh is of the view that reservation is a concept basically linked with suppression. The idea of reservation was to bring all those downtrodden castes up in social and economic equality, which had been suppressed for centuries. 
 
 "So, what religion a person professes, who has taken birth in an already declared SC family, should not be an issue," he said. He added that even in the Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925, a person who professes Sikh religion is a Sikh. Hence, as per that definition it is not that the person professing Sikhism cannot be from a SC. The senior advocate further opines that even if a person changes his religion, he does not lose the status of the caste to which he belongs by birth.
 
 Sikhism has not been recognized as a separate religion despite a large population of Sikhs. Hence, the Sikhs want that they should be recognized as a separate religion so that they could eventually raise their demands like a separate marriage act and separate laws or minority status.
 
 
