PATNA: Patna is undergoing an urban makeover of sorts with a number of flyovers coming up in different parts of the city.

 The upcoming R-Block and Karbigahia flyovers along with   and Mithapur railway overbridges will allow commuters to travel from Hardinge Road to Kankerbagh without much traffic. The flyover over Karbigahia is being constructed at an estimated cost of Rs 103 crore and that at R-Block at a cost of Rs 118 crore.
 
 According to Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) MD  , the two flyovers are targeted to be completed by November next year.
 
 The BRPNNL is the executing wing of state road construction department. Its officials informed TOI on Thursday the Karbigahia flyover would also be expanded into four lanes. 
 
 Seven other flyovers, albeit smaller ones, are also proposed to be developed on the Danapur-Digha-Gandhi Maidan road. “A decision to construct small flyovers at congested spots on the route was taken in pursuance of CM Nitish Kumar’s directive to free the route from congestion. A feasibility study for the purpose is in the final stages, following which the bidding process will be initiated,” said a BRPNNL engineer.
 
 The state government has also decided to construct a railway overbridge over the   track at Hartali Mor. It is proposed to be constructed as per the recent modifications done in the Lohia Path Chakra project, which consists of several underpasses, overpasses and U-turns between Vidyut Bhawan and Lalit Bhawan.
 
 “As desired by the CM, we will soon send a proposal to the  , seeking its permission for construction of the overbridge over the tracks at Hartali Mor,” a BRPNNL source said.
 
 Also, the Chitkohra rail overbridge near the city airport will be converted into four lanes. The rail overbridge from the airport side to Anisabad, is 4.5ft wide. Two parallel lanes – one for upward movement and the other for downward movement – will be added to it.
 
 “The  , an agency of the Indian Railways, will take up the Chitkohra rail overbridge expansion work.
 
 
