LUDHIANA: On the pattern of Mumbai, city residents can experience travelling through monorail, as a transit corridor proposal is under consideration of the state government for the industrial town. The corridor is proposed alongside the Buddha Nallah to develop a secondary transport system, as well as reducing burden on the main roads. However, it is yet to be seen whether it will become a reality, or like previous projects of metro rail and BRTS (Bus Rapid Transit System), it will also remain on paper.

 It is not the first time that monorail has been proposed for the city, as a team of experts from Tata Reality and Infrastructure Limited had also visited the city in November 2010 for survey regarding the monorail. They had calculated its cost at Rs 2,500 crore. After this, representatives from Japan-based Hitachi India Private Limited visited the city in 2011 for a survey regarding the project. However, all these efforts could not yield fruit due to its higher cost. Earlier, the project was proposed for routes on main city roads, but this time it has been proposed on the road alongside Buddha Nallah.
 
 Sources revealed that chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had asked officials to bring a list of projects that can bring certain qualitative changes in the existing conditions. The other projects included Halwara Airport, canal-based water supply, Cycle Valley, Satluj Corridor from   to  , land use of  , construction of labour colonies, shifting of the city bus stand and Transport Nagar, shifting of dairy complexes, completion of common effluent treatment plants, construction of Food Park at Ladhowal, and reuse of industrial waste water. 
 
 The monorail proposal has been included in the list of around 13 projects for the city, for which officials of various departments like Municipal Corporation (MC),   (Glada), Public Works Department (PWD), Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB), Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), and   have been involved.
 
 Meanwhile, deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal, while confirming the move, said they had prepared a list of some very important projects for the city, which will be considered as per their priority and other conditions. He said all the departments concerned were working on these projects, and the CM would monitor them on a regular basis. 
 
 CANAL WATER SUPPLY
 
 For canal-based water supply, financial calculations are going on after getting a report from the World Bank. The officials are now relying on canal-based water supply project in three wards, for which tenders have already been floated by MC under the Smart City Mission. The officials claimed that through this pilot project, they would be able to calculate the pros and cons of canal-based water supply, because they cannot rely anymore on tubewell water supply. 
 
 
