NEW DELHI: A Central Pollution Control Board   submitted to the   has found the levels of   (as N) exceeds the   at almost all locations monitored as the river passes through Haryana, Palla (Haryana-Delhi border) and then within the Delhi stretch.

 
  
  
 
 Ammonaical nitrogen is basically a measure for  , a pollutant often found in waste water, fertiliser run off or industrial effluents. It is known to reduce the effectiveness of water treatment technologies.
 
 The report submitted by CPCB on Tuesday indicates that the ammoniacal nitrogen level upstream of Khojkipur in Panipat is 0.9 mg/l, while the safe standard is 0.8 mg/l. As the river passes through other drains in Haryana, levels go up significantly, testing at 30 mg/l at drain no. 6, Dahesra, Sonepat. At Palla border it improves to 4.2 mg/l, still above the safe limit even after treatment for drinking water supply to Delhi. At ITO barrage with Delhi’s untreated waste water also adding to Yamuna water, ammoniacal nitrogen level rises to 27.9 mg/l.
 
 The report which has test results from samples collected on February 23, 2018, shows that industries in Panipat and Sonepat may be contributing significantly to Yamuna water pollution but even Delhi’s waste water contribution downstream of Wazirabad is very high and may be impacting water used from Agra canal for irrigation purposes.
 
 Overall, the report indicates the water is at its best quality before drains in Panipat and Sonepat start polluting it.
 
 Dissolved oxygen (DO) levels were also found to be nil at ITO barrage, indicating that the river in Delhi is nearly dead. DO is necessary for the survival of many forms of life including fish, invertebrates and aquatic plants. The Ph levels are complying with standards at all locations. The Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) (the amount of DO needed by microorganisms in various biological processes) at most locations, even in Haryana, exceeds the standard.
 
 “The primary cause for high ammonia levels is industries in Panipat and Sonepat discharging effluents and polluting water bodies. It’s a recurring problem. Water with high ammonia is not potable, treatment processes cannot also bring to acceptable limits. However, when Delhi says Haryana is not taking care of treating the water that’s coming to Delhi, it should also look at what the capital is releasing downstream,” said Manoj Misra of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan.
 
 According to WHO, high ammonia levels are an important indicator of faecal pollution. “Taste and odour problems as well as decreased efficiency in disinfection are to be expected if drinking water with more than 0.2 mg of ammonia per litre is chlorinated.”
 
 Shashank Shekhar, assistant professor in the department of Geology, Delhi University, said that when water with high levels of ammonia is treated in a plant which uses chlorination to treat water, there is a chemical reaction which forms chloramine. Chloramine has various health impacts, which is why water polluted with ammonia cannot go through chlorination.
 
 According to Chloramine.org, people with liver or kidney disease and those with hereditary urea cycle disorders are at increased risk for ammonia toxicity from the consumption of chloraminated water. Chloramine cannot kill the pathogens in the water as well as chlorine. As a result, people with suppressed immune systems must have their water boiled over 10 minutes before use to kill pathogens, or they risk becoming ill.
 
 
