GURUGRAM: The   started by the   a month ago are not attracting many players, says a report by the department that was submitted to the sports directorate in Chandigarh. According to the report, the attendance of the players is not complete. The players come to the ground for 22 days, which is the minimum amount of attendance to stay in the nurseries and get the benefits, but only 50% of them have regularly practised in the past one month. The rest of the selected players do not come for regular practice.

 The issue of attendance has been persistent in all the 14 nurseries in the city.  , volleyball coach, sports nursery said that the problem of commuting from far off places is a major reason behind the low attendance of the players. “There are 14 sports nurseries in the city. Now a player who plays hockey, if he lives in Bhondsi and his academy is in Sector 4-7, how can he commute every day? Most of the players who have been selected belong to economically weaker sections of the society. They cannot afford the cost of daily commute. The solution to this problem is that all 14 academies should be opened at every two kilometres which will save the travelling time and cost,” he said. 
 
 District sports officer   said, “The attendance has been received and sent to the directorate which will decide how to send scholarships to the players. The attendance has been sent on the basis of the number of days a particular player has come to the centre. These sports nurseries were started with a view to nurture players. Now if they don’t attend it, what can we do? The directorate will take a decision whether to keep such players in the nurseries or not.”
 
 For entry into the nursery, 4,000 players of Gurugram took a physical aptitude test, which included 30-metre flying, standing vertical jump, standing broad jump, 6X10 metre shuttle run, ring of fire, and 800-metre running event. Players who passed in all these tests were selected to be part of these nurseries.
 
 After a wait of two years, these nurseries were started in December 2017. The sports department had intended to open 20 nurseries but the number was later reduced to 14. 
 
 
 
