NEW DELHI:   captain   has embraced the idea of   franchises doing their bit to make their fans feel special in the ongoing edition of the  . Gambhir, whose side hasn’t had the best of starts in the tournament, and is languishing at the bottom of the points table, is impressed by the little gestures the likes of   and Royal Challengers Bangalore have come up with to ensure their fans are repaid for their immense backing and support.

 
 
 
 
 
 “I have noticed two most amazing gestures from my rival teams. Both are for fans and you have to be an absolute cynic to point out any commercial angles in them. Before I share those considerate acts let me put the context out. I have often felt that for Indian cricket, the fans are either an afterthought or they are taken for granted,” Gambhir wrote in Saturday’s TOI.
 
 
 
 “The access to tickets, the pricing, parking lots, accessibility to the stadium, and separate enclosure for ladies, medical facilities, comfortable seats, toilets, drinking water, food, and all these aspects need a lot of attention.”
 
 On Thursday, following the shifting of Chennai Super Kings’ games from Chennai to Pune, the franchise introduced a special train - the Whistlepodu Express - that allowed their fans to travel all the way to Pune. It was a move that warmed CSK hearts and saw a mad rush of people. The franchise's loyal fans numbering over 1000 boarded the special train, and along with complimentary passes, were also provided free food and accommodation in Pune. It was a move that left has Gambhir quite pleased.
 
 “Amid all this, Chennai Super Kings organized a chartered train for its fans to travel to Pune to watch the game against Rajasthan Royals. You must be aware that CSK games had to be shifted out of Chennai to Pune due to protests. Media reports have suggested that all expenses including food, local accommodation and transport, match tickets and the return journey to Chennai will be taken care of by the management,” Gambhir, who has till date, played 58Tests, 147 ODIs and 37 T20Is for India, mentioned.
 
 “In a slightly different sort of a way, Bangalore did their bit before this year’s IPL started. They retired jersey No. 12 claiming that it belonged to the   fans, the real 12th man of the team. Yes, RCB fans would still be looking for their team’s first title, but these are small dots which spread loyalties beyond wins and losses. Therefore, it is no surprise that Chinnaswamy Stadium is roaring at the opposition when they enter the arena. We expect nothing different when we play there on Saturday.”
 
 The fact that the Daredevils have been able to win just one of their four matches has rung alarm bells in the camp. Their last match against Rajasthan Royals was affected by rain and saw the Daredevils needing 71 off six over to win the contest. In the end, the Gambhir-led franchise fell 11 short of the target and the Royals were awarded the match by 10 wickets. It may be early days in the competition but Gambhir understands the importance of getting back to winning ways.
 
 “As I was writing this article, it started to rain heavily. This is the most depressing sight for any sportsman and more so for a captain whose team is at the bottom of the points table. I felt nervous. We have already been bugged by rain during our game against Royals in Jaipur. The result in that match could have been different but for the rain. We surely don’t want a repeat. When something like this happens, I do two things to quell my anxiety: First, check the forecast on at least two credible websites. Damn, both suggested rains on Saturday too. Second, I start to apply the principle of causality,” Gambhir wrote.
 
 “I start to ponder if I committed any mistakes. Was I rude to the room service guy? Did I turn down any fan request for a selfie? Did I waste any food? I let all kinds of thoughts on cause-and-effect philosophy gatecrash my mind. Thankfully, the rain stopped and we did some light training. Our group is quite buoyant. We are trying to get our bowling combinations right for the small ground here although the wicket may not be as batting friendly as it used to be.”
 
 The Daredevils take on Royal Challengers Bangalore on Saturday in a game that pits Delhi’s two most flamboyant batsmen in Gambhir and Virat Kohli against each other. RCB are just a place above Daredevils, and a win for either side will be extremely crucial to set the tone for the remainder of the tournament.
 
 “RCB will be banking on Virat and AB de Villiers. I was wondering what if they still had Chris Gayle in the ranks. The Universe Boss owned the IPL on Thursday night like only he does. In this kind of mood we are not missing him. May be the RCB team and their coveted 12th man is,” the Daredevils skipper mentioned.
 
