Ghaziabad: Food items worth nearly a crore were destroyed in a fire that broke out in   in   industrial area on Thursday afternoon. 

 There were nearly 125 workers, including 45 women, when the fire broke out in the godown on the second floor. All workers were safely evacuated. Though there is no clarity on how the fire broke out, workers claimed that the fire started near a boiler and soon spread.
 
 “Around noon, I along with other staff were busy with our work when we noticed smoke emanating from the godown on the first floor,” said Ramesh Chand, a worker. “We rushed to the second floor and saw the raw materials going up in flames. We immediately raised an alarm and rushed out,” he said.
 
 Another worker, who was on first floor, claimed that the fire started due to explosion in the boiler. “I heard an explosion from where the boiler is installed. Immediately after that, fire erupted on the second floor,” he said.
 
 The godown on the second floor was in fact a closed enclosure of tin shades. Inflammable substances like polythene and eatables were stuffed in the godown. According to a worker, this was the place where workers, mostly women, did packaging work. Fortunately, packaging work usually starts in the second half and at the time of fire, no one was there.
 
 Ten fire tenders from Sahibabad and adjoining areas arrived and it took nearly five hours to bring it under control. “The building is still on fire but after five hours of fire-fighting, it has been brought under control,” said N S Chauhan, fire officer. When asked about the the reason behind the fire, Chauhan said: “Prima facie, it appears that a short circuit have caused the fire but we will have to wait till Friday to say anything conclusive.”
 
 Meanwhile, workers claimed that there was no fire-fighting equipment in the factory. “Even the road leading to the factory was congested and fire tenders made way to the spot after much difficulty,” said a worker. “The situation would have been more dangerous had diesel drums stored in the factory were not brought out when the fire broke out,” said the worker. He claimed that there were 32 diesel drums in the factory.
 
 The owner of the factory, however, denied the allegations. “The fire broke out due to short-circuit. There is no truth in the allegation that a boiler explosion took place,” said Anil Mittal. He also claimed all fire safety equipment was in place. “I fear that raw materials worth Rs 1 crore was gutted,” Mittal added.
 
 
