BHUBANESWAR: More people,  ,   and other stakeholders can participate in the annual budget making process as the state government on Wednesday extended timeline to receive suggestions till January 10.

 The decision was taken during the pre-budget consultation meeting here headed by finance minister  . “We have received tremendous response from various sections through e-mail, web portal, WhatsApp, telegram and text message. Keeping in mind the demand from various quarters to extend the timeline for submission of the budget suggestions, we have extended the deadline,” said Behera.
  
 Deadline for the facility was till January 10. It started from December 23.
 
 Behera said the objective behind the move is to make the annual budget more open and participative by the use of information communication technology.
 
 The Centre of Excellence in fiscal policy and taxation, a joint collaboration between the state government and Xavier University, Bhubaneswar would examine all suggestions and recommend the appropriate one to include in the annual budget. The state government has so far received over 9000 suggestions through various mediums.
 Briefing reporters after the consultation, the finance minister said the state government would present a budget a budget for 2018-19 financial year with emphasis on agriculture, social security and infrastructure development.
 
 Besides making adequate budgetary provision for its ongoing social security programme, the state government is also looking to announce a number of new schemes as the forthcoming budget will be the last full budget before the 2019 general and assembly election.
 
 Finance secretary T K Pandey said a common view emerged from the meeting that the state has performed well in its fiscal management. “The economic condition of the state has improved. The annual budget is being prepared keeping in mind the parameters of the fiscal responsibility and budget management,” Pandey said.
 
 The finance secretary also indicted for growth in the budget size in 2018-19 as there has been growth in revenue generation. In 2017-18, the state government had a budget worth Rs 1.06 lakh crore.
 
 Former finance minister Prafulla Ghadai, who was part of the meeting, stressed on filing up vacancies for proper implementation of welfare schemes.
 
 Other experts participated in the consultation also urged the state government to recover the arrears like electricity dues pending with various industrial houses.
 
