GURUGRAM: Alleging increase in requests for closures and downsizing by manufacturing units in the Gurugram-Manesar industrial belt, around 40 labour organisations came together to chalk a plan to reduce the impact of these closures on workers. 

 A rally has been finalised on May 18 by the unions in this regard. Some of the labour unions that participated in the Friday meeting included AUITECH, Citu, Maruti Suzuki  , Hindu Mazdoor Sabha and HeroMoto Corp Union.
 
 Labour union leaders said they expected over a thousand workers to be impacted by these closures, full or partial. “It has been six months since we began protesting for the rights of over 100 workers affected by the shutdown of Napino Auto (Gurugram). There have been regular protests for over three months, yet there hasn’t been any action from the government to save workers interests,” said Anil Pawar, president, Napino Auto labour union,  . 
 
 Officials of the   said the matter is under consideration. “The law says we have to give the government a notice of 60 days, which we did, as the Gurugram unit was running losses. We aren’t liable to inform the labourers,” Ashok Kumar, HR manager at Napino had earlier told TOI. 
 
 He added there are many other companies whose managements are trying to downsize or close their plants in the region. 
 
 Raj Kumar, who works in an automobile engine parts manufacturing company, said, “The management has submitted a request for partial closure of the company’s Dharuhera plant because of falling profits. This will hit the livelihoods of over 300 workers.” 
 
 When asked if they had approached the labour department, he said there hasn’t been any response from them to their submission so far. Rico representatives were unavailable for comments. 
 
 Talking about the May 18 rally, Manoj Kumar, president of the union at a firm manufacturing automobile shock absorbers, said, “We are demanding government intervention in all cases where downsizing is affecting workers. Over 25,000 workers are expected to take part in the rally.”
 
 The struggle of these labourers puts into perspective the policies ostensibly launched for ‘ease of doing business’, which allows a factory with less than 300 workers to close down without prior notice to the government. 
 
 Labour department sources said another recent amendment makes it mandatory for their officers to notify the industries 15 days before any inspection. “Earlier, we used to do surprise visits to the factories, which helped keep violations in check. Now we have to inform the factories before visiting them, which beats the whole purpose,” said an official.
 
 Additional labour commissioner Naresh Narnal said, “The companies have to give a 60-day-notice. As soon as the notices are received, we attempt reconciliation, and in case of protest, the government has the final power to decide on the closure.
 
 
