BARNALA: The 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' themed graffiti commissioned by the   administration and adorning various flyovers and other public walls in the district, has been recognized by the Union ministry of women and child development ahead of the International Women's Day. The ministry has shared the graffiti on its Facebook page. 

 The Barnala district administration had taken up the project as part of its women empowerment campaign last year. The ministry has put three pictures of women in a collage painted on various flyovers in Barnala on its FB page linked with its website. The ministry mentioned, "Magnificent #BetiBachaoBetiPadhao Graffitis will welcome you at Barnala district, #Punjab. We salute indomitable spirit of #NariShakti."
 
 The graffiti will also be displayed in a gallery at Jhunjhunu town of Rajasthan on Thursday, which will be viewed by Prime Minister   where he would be presiding over the "Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao" extension programme on International Women's Day.
 
 The Barnala administration had started a move to promote the 'Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' programme on May 31, 2017, by getting artists to paint at various places across the district. In the last over nine months, the message has been spread across the district by putting wall paintings at more than 12 places, including four flyovers. Apart from using funds from own sources the district administration also got support from the industrial houses under corporate social responsibility (CSR) scheme.
 
 "It is a matter of pride that the Union ministry has shared the graffiti and has decided to display our work in a gallery at Jhunjhunu on the International Women's Day, which will be visited by the PM. This morale-boosting step will further motivate us to do more to empower women and make more girls go to school," said Barnala DC Ghanshyam Thori.
 
 He said the district had achieved the biggest jump in improving the child sex ratio at birth (SRB) in Punjab by 57 points. It was at the lowest place of the 22 districts in the state in 2015-16 with 836 girls against 1,000 boys at birth. In 2016-17, the SRB increased to 893 females against 1,000 males.
 
 The graffiti showing inspirational women from all walks of life, such as Lata Mangeshkar, Amrita Pritam, Kalpana Chawla, P T Usha, Mari Kom and   were made at flyover on the   stretch of the national highway on November 30, 2017 to inspire young girls to learn from the achievements. 
 
 "We are highly inspired to see the painting of Malala Yousafzei who never feared from the threats of extremists and chose to promote education among girls. She could be role model of girls despite belonging to neighbouring country," said  , a class XII student, who participated in the graffiti art.
 
 
