AGARTALA:   general secretary   on Friday released a 11-page 'chargesheet' against the state government in Tripura, bringing allegations of 30 charges, including complaints of 10 major scams and 22 instances of brutal atrocities on women perpetrated in the last five years. He also said Prime Minister Narendra   will again address two election rallies in the state on February 15 - one at Vivekananda stadium at   and another at Shantirbazar in South Tripura. 

 Seeking a reply from CPM, Madhav said, "  and his party colleagues have been raising questions on Modi while Sarkar himself is seeking votes without apologizing for his misdeeds." Alleging that CPI(M), with the help of some government officers and police forces, is resorting to terror tactics across the state, BJP on Friday lodged complaints to the state chief secretary against some returning officers for allegedly favouring the Left Front government and misusing the central paramilitary forces for political purposes. 
 
 "We are assuring voters that BJP cadres will not allow any kind of unruly activities of CPM during elections. We want the people to vote without any fear," Madhav said, predicting that the BJP-IPFT(NC) alliance in the state will be successful in the electoral battle. "We are confident that the BJP-IPFT(NC) alliance will form government with a comfortable majority in Tripura and we will achieve our first target of a communist-free India. In Meghalaya, we can certainly go for a post-poll alliance with local parties to prevent the   from forming government," he added.
 
 Madhav, however, ruled out the possibility of a pre-poll alliance in Meghalaya, saying they will fight alone in the 47 seats, while in   the saffron party will be looking to form government with their ally National Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP). The BJP-NDPP alliance has decided to field 20 BJP candidates and 40 NDPP candidates while in Tripura, the saffron party will be contesting in 51 seats with its ally IPFT(NC) fielding candidates in the remaining 9 seats.
 
 "The BJP is serious about the election in all the three poll-bound states of the northeast because PM Modi has termed the region as the growth engine of India. Unless the region comes under BJP rule, the states will be suffering more because of Congress and CPM, which will ultimately affect India's development," Madhav claimed. 
 
 Arguing that doing well in all the states is important for the BJP, Madhav pointed out that the saffron party's ambitions in Meghalaya is fuelled by its desire to end Congress rule while in Tripura, they will try to further their dream of communist-free India. Tripura will mark the downfall of communists in the country, he claimed, adding that the Left bastion in Kerala is their next target. 
 
 
