Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com 

 Director and producer  , who has several ace serials to his credit, the most recent one being ' ', which he had conceptualised, and which wrapped up recently, was in Lucknow with his wife Anju. Taking a break from TV, Ravindra was in his hometown to finalise locations for his next movie which has been pending for more than a year. "The script is final, the producers are there, but I couldn't start filming this movie, which I am planning to make in Lucknow, because I started shooting for 'Meri Durga'. The show took most of my time but since it was a finite show which was supposed to be on air for a year only, I decided to do it first. Now that it is over, I am back to my hometown to relax and also to start the final ground work for my upcoming movie," shared Ravindra.
 
  
  Ravindra Gautam at Saadat Ali’s Maqbara, Qaiserbagh, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav)
 
 
 In Lucknow with his better half after a long time, Ravindra made the most of his visit by roaming on the streets of Hazratganj. "I came to Lucknow with Anju after a long time. And I on purpose stayed in a hotel in Hazratganj, as for me, the heart of the city is still Hazratganj. While most of the people coming here now find Gomti Nagar the new heart of Lucknow, but for me, Hazratganj can’t be replaced with any other area."
 Sharing further, he said, "I used to stay in Udaiganj, then I shifted to Mahanagar and then I stayed for a good time in Indira Nagar. Mera aur mere doston ka adda hamesha Hazratganj hi hota tha. Also, being a St. Francis' College alumnus, I still keep getting invitations for  , which is a weekly reunion of my schoolmates on every Sunday at Sharma Chai Wala. Toh Hazratganj has a very special place in my heart. My wife and I went for a long walk in Hazratganj and relived all the fond memories of our younger days. I was in Cathedral School till class IV and then I was transferred to  ', so I took my wife to both my schools. There is a very famous kachodi wala adjacent my college, so we both went there also, after having Sharma ke chai and samosa."
 Ravindra's last serial 'Meri Durga', was a sports drama, which he says was pretty difficult to shoot. "Shooting for this serial was really difficult as compared to the saas-bahu serials which I have directed previously. Regular daily soaps mein there is a fixed set, usme aap chale gaye and then you are shooting. But 'Meri Durga' involved a lot of outdoor locations and the story was quite progressive despite being of a rural background. Also, every now and then, there were racing scenes in the serial. Even though we did add a bit of regular masala in this sports drama, hum mudde se nahi hate kabhi bhi. And the show ran successfully for more than one year. My show is a part of the change that TV industry has been trying for a very long time. I know it is very good for such experiments to last on the small screen, with maximum shows being shut in four months, but at least they are running for four months. There will come a time when such experimental shows, which are going off air in four months, will run for a good time and also earn good money. Thankfully, makers on the small screen have not given up yet and are trying to give something different to the viewers. In times to come they will get addicted to such good content too," said Ravindra. 
 — Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
 
 
