
 MADURAI: Coming down heavily on the state’s municipal administration and water supply secretary and commissioner as well as Trichy corporation commissioner, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court has said that competent authorities of the government were granting relaxations to favour certain individuals for promotions on extraneous consideration. Saying so, the court dismissed the petition of a corporation worker who sought promotion as administrative officer. 
 
 Dismissing the petition filed by S Padmanabham, Justice S M   said the petition was a classic one of authorities having created confusion in following the rules in force regarding promotions to show favouritism to the petitioner on extraneous considerations. Had the rules been followed, scrupulously there would be no room for any discrimination, confusion or unnecessary litigations, the judge said. 
 
 He said that the petitioner had been provided with certain concessions facilitating him to secure certain posts in a specialised manner. In fact, the petitioner was treated as a special employee by the state’s municipal administration and water supply secretary and its commissioner as well as Trichy corporation commissioner. Such concessions had been a burning issue amongst the other employees of the corporation, the judge said. 
 
 The petitioner, appointed as steno-typist in December 1998, was promoted from junior assistant to the posts of personal assistant, reporter, assistant revenue officer and superintendent in the next 16 years by relaxing rules. Lastly, he had sought the post of administrative officer. 
 
 The petitioner was not eligible for promotion to the post of administrative officer in view of the fact that he was not holding of any one of the posts of feeder categories to the promotional post as per service rules. Thus, the question of considering the case of the writ petitioner could not be further considered by diluting the existing service rules in force, the judge said and dismissed his petition. The judge also said that promotional opportunities were to be provided equally to all eligible aspiring employees who were waiting for it. 
 
 
