NEW DELHI: BJP’s war room for 2019 general elections will be at its new office at 6, Deen Dayal Upadhyay  . The party will shift its headquarters there on February 18 with the Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurating it the same day.

 BJP’s headquarter moves from its current   11, Ashok Road, in accordance with a Supreme Court order mandating political parties vacate their Lutyens Bungalow Zone (LBZ) offices.
 
 Built on two acres, the swank five-storey building has 70 rooms and parking space for over 400 vehicles. The construction was completed barely in one and half years after the foundation was laid by the PM Modi in August 2016. “PM Modi, party president Amit Shah and all senior party leaders will be present at the inaugural ceremony,” said a senior party functionary.
 
 The building plan includes a variety of modern architecture and features such as the use of hollow bricks to keep it cool, solar panels to light up the building, provision for water harvesting and bio-toilets. It houses a central seven-storyed building apart from a couple of three-storeyed structures.
 
 The two conference rooms can seat over 600 people. Basic features like elevators, Wi-Fi, media facilities like a studio for television interviews and debates, a digital library and reading room have been constructed.
 
 Social media, IT, disaster management, election management and global relation wings will all come up under one roof. The party president’s office will be on the top floor.   will shift to the state-of-the-art office after operating for years from a tiny workplace at Ajmeri Gate.
 
 While laying the foundation stone, Modi had said “The new office is not just a building or a structure but a symbol of sacrifices of the party leaders.”
 
 “The work was completed on a war footing with a purpose to ensure that the party contests the next Lok Sabha polls from the new office. All party general secretaries, who are assigned responsibility of different states, will have the liberty to operate from their respective offices and can meet colleagues from different states without any hassle,” a senior party functionary said.
 
 BJP, which claims to be the world’s largest party with around 10 crore members, had been operating from Type-VIII bungalow at 11 Ashoka Road Lutyens complex for the past three decades.
 
 The SC had asked all political parties to vacate their offices from the Lutyen’s zone more than a decade ago. However, several parties, including Congress, have not complied with the order. The government has allotted land to the parties, including Congress, which is yet to start construction at the plot located in the vicinity of the new BJP HQ on Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg.
 
 
