AGRA: Five buses, three shops were torched and a mosque was vandalised after cremation of Chandan Gupta who lost his life in firing on Friday during a clash between two groups as tension continued to prevail in Kasganj district. 

  
  carried out by motorcycle-borne local youths. The tense situation prompted authorities to shut school and colleges in the area as a precautionary measure. 49 people so far have been arrested in connection with the clash so far and section 144 has been imposed in the city. 
 
 Companies of RAF, PAC along with police force have been deployed in the area to maintain law and order. The city limits have been cordoned off by the police. A curfew was imposed on Friday night, but was removed on Saturday. However, the district administration again imposed a curfew .
 
 Former state CM Akhilesh Yadav condemning the violence said, "This, happening on Republic Day is unfortunate. People of Kasganj respect each other. We want action against culprits but no injustice should be done" 
 
  
  
 
 Sources claimed men were spotted with petrol bottles near Ghantaghar and Nadrai gate area. 
  
 “At least three shops owned by traders of a particular community in Ghantaghar area were set on fire, while two buses were vandalised in Nadraigate area on Mathura-Bareilly highway, after which police rushed to control the situation,“ said a resident on conditions who of anonymity.
 
  
  
 
 “Police force has been deployed to maintain law and order in Kasganj city. We have detained nearly 20 men for Saturday violence. Stringent action will be taken against those who are engaged in violence and damaging private properties. The situation is under control,” district magistrate RP Singh said. 
 
 Meanwhile, Kasganj police, in a press statement, claimed that two FIRs have been lodged in Kotwali police station against 26 men including nine named.
 
 “One FIR was filed by inspector Ripudaman Singh, SHO of Kotwali, against six named person under IPC sections 147, 148, 149, 307, 336, 436, 295, 427, 323, 504 and 7 CLA act. Another FIR was filed by Chandan Gupta’s father Sunil Gupta against 20 men including three named under IPC sections 147, 148, 149, 341, 336, 307, 302, 504, 506, 124A and 3 national flag act. Till now police have arrested nine men," Ajay Bhadoria, public relation officer of Kasganj police said.
 
 BJP MP Rajveer Singh who attended Chandan Gupta's cremation persuaded the victim’s family to cremate Chandan. The family who were demanding arrest of all the accused had initially refused to cremate Chandan. 
 
  
  
 
 Speaking to TOI, Singh said, "I urged the family to talk to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on the phone, and after his assurance, they agreed to cremate Chandan. The state government will pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation to the family.”
 
 Singh said, “Friday's attack was a planned assault on the youths who were taking out 'Tiranga Yatra' on two-wheelers. The youths were attacked with acid bottles, stones were pelted and shots were fired on them. Every year scores of youths in Kasganj city take out rally on the occasion of Republic Day, but this time they were stopped and attacked."
 
 Singh said, "It is important to find out as to how come so many stones, acid bottles were used in attack on youths in city area, where there is proper regulation on the sale of acid. We want thorough probe into the matter and arrest of all men involved in the violence."
 
 BJP MP further alleged that certain slogans were also raised before the attack. "Before the attack, the other group shouted 'Pakistan Zindabad'," he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, an exclusive footage accessed by TOI prior to the clash in Kasganj showed youths with national flag shouting slogans 'Hindustan me rehena hoga toh vande matram kehna hoga' (Chant Vande Mataram, if one wants to stay in India).
 
