CHANDIGARH: Five days after two car-borne person shot dead a cashier employed with a poultry farm and escaped with a sack containing Rs 22 lakh, the Jind police on Monday solved the case with the arrest of a parole jumper and a woman.

 The parole jumper in the murder case has been identified as   and the woman as Pooja, a resident of   in Karnal. Pooja’s boyfriend  , who is also a conspirator, is on the run, said SP Jind Arun Nehra. Nehra said Pardeep was arrested from near the Sugar mill area in Jind. Following his interrogation, the cops have arrested Pooja, who was currently living in a rented accommodation in Sector 11 of Jind Urban estate. “We will ensure that every single person who is directly or indirectly related to the incident or had helped the accused is sent behind the bars,’’ said Nehra.
 
 On December 26, two unidentified car-borne persons escaped after looting Chanderpal, the victim. An accountant-cum-cashier employed with a poultry farm,   died on the spot and the assailants escaped with a sack containing the money.
 
 Police said the crime team had some inputs about Pardeep. The team tracked down his movement and increased the surveillance around him. “Both Pardeep and Pooja have confessed their involvement in the incident. We are now conducting raids to arrest Manjit Singh,’’ said Nehra.
 
 Nehra said during interrogation, the two have confessed that Manjit, and other people have committed the crime. Manjit had given Rs 2 lakh to Pooja, who drove him to Asandh for safe passage on the same day.
 
 Nehra also said the police are trying to ascertain if Manjeet, Pardeep and Pooja are involved in other crimes, which have recently happened in the district or nearby districts.
 
 According to information, 35-year-old Pardeep, a history-sheeter, has been convicted in five cases, including one murder, which he committed in March 2010. He is facing trial in five cases of attempt to murder and was released on bail last year.
 
 “We will move the   and Haryana High Court for cancellation of his bail now,’’ said Jind SP.
 
 
