 has concluded. But the stories from the house continue abounding the gossip circuit and the hype of the show continues unabated. Here are some stories we got fresh off the grapevine from Shalini who recently anchored Bigg Boss Autograph with the contestants just after the finale.

 
 
 He had acidity issues and kept asking Bigg Boss for medicines. When they didn't comply, he passed wind into the microphone. He continued doing so all night and finally Bigg Boss complied and sent the medicines. He also stayed sane in the house only because of Anupama. 
 
 
 
 She is extremely restless and can't stay put in one place. She keeps walking around and apparently even Sudeep got irritated and told her, “Neenu ondu kade koothkolamma, please.” Anupama never got emotional when she left the house, but cried when she saw the kitchen for the last time. 
 
 
 
 Everybody teased her as mini Bigg Boss. She’d always predict things and it’d happen exactly like that. So everybody would say “OK, tell us Bigg Boss, what should we do next.” Krishi also made beetroot vangi bath, which actually left everyone pleasantly surprised.
 
 
 
 She gave something to   but nobody knew what it was. She actually gave him a miniature Sai Baba that she has been having for many years. She feels her own game would have been better if she had concentrated on herself. 
 
 
 
 He had to wear 30 pairs of clothes for a task and was hesitant about it because he’s never worn other people’s clothes in his life. Moreover, he was most apprehensive about wearing Sameer Acharya’s clothes because he only wears loin cloth and not conventional underclothes.
 
 
 
 She said JK concocted some brown water that they used to drink all the time. She had also given up drinking milk a long time ago. But after Chandru made badam milk without badam in the house, she started drinking milk again.
 
 
 
 He pestered the guys from the broadcasting channel for months to feature on the show. So much so that they had even instructed the security to not allow him into the premises. They told him to apply through the common man category and that they’d select him if he was eligible. 
 
 
 
 He still can’t believe that his social media numbers have shot up so much. He has gained extreme popularity. 
 
 
 
 He found the house cold, which is why he would sit in the garden area a lot. But it became such that it created two groups — inside and outside aka common man and celebrities. Chandan also said hat he had always maintained that Diwakar had to win. But when his father came and said , “Why are you harping about someone else's win? Think about your own game.” Chandan decided to change is attitude for the fear of disappointing his father.
 
 
 
 She now regrets not standing up for Samyuktha Hegde during the   episode. 
 
 
 
 He used to wash a lot of utensils and would later apply a lot of lotion. But Shruti Prakash apparently used to touch him with wet hands and it’d irritate him. Also, when Shruti sang  , he shed copious tears.
 
 
 
 She said Sameer had started stealing food long before it was actually discovered that he did so! 
 
 
 
 He’d narrate a lot of stories but none of them were telecast. He also had a secret code for all contestants. 
 
 
 
 She was nick-named Piranha owing to the shape of her lips
 
 
 
 He’s apparently never laughed so much in his life. He’d also dance a lot. But he was portrayed as an extremely serious guy.
 
 
 
 He had only one meal for almost two months. His cooking system didn’t permit him to cook often.
 
