Trichy: After a day-long protest by Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) workers that saw the state-run buses grounded across the depots in the city, normalcy in TNSTC bus operation inched back at snail’s pace in Trichy on Saturday. As the protesting workers claimed that 70% of the government buses remained off the roads, official sources in TNSTC contradicted their workers on stir and claimed that 80% of the buses are being operated in Trichy. Since, public heavily relied on private buses for commuting, passengers complained fleecing for the second consecutive day in a few routes. Against the 379 total fleets spread across five TNSTC depots in the city at Dheeran Nagar, Cantonment (Pudukkottai division), Cantonment (Trichy division), Mofussil and Rockfort depot, protesting transport workers who have camped outside the aforesaid depots stated that only about 100 fleets were operated with the help of part-time drivers including people belonging to AIADMK. “We are neither afraid of the statement issued by Madras High Court nor of the warnings of state transport minister insisting us to return to duty. Even the employees affiliated to AIADMK backed Anna Trade Union have refused to operate fleets,” John Udhayasuriyan, a TNSTC driver told TOI. District collector K Rajamani, who inspected the Chathiram and Central bus stand on Saturday said that district administration, revenue, police and transport departments have managed to operate more than 50% of total 758 bus services in Trichy district till Saturday noon. “About 29 buses of total 90 fleets belonging to State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) in Trichy district are plying to their destination. Law and order situation is being monitored by district administration, RTOs have been told to prevent private bus operators fleecing the passengers,” the district collector added. Meanwhile, the aftershock of TNSTC employees stir is being felt in Gandhi Market, Trichy, the largest and most famous vegetable and fruit market in central districts. Vegetable traders claimed that their business have come down by 40-50% due to lack of public movement. “Small time traders belonging to rural areas who purchase vegetables in bulk have not showed up in the market till Saturday noon. As buses are not plying in adequate numbers, we have been witnessing hiatus in active sales of vegetables for past two days,” U S Karupiah, vegetable trader in Gandhi Market said. Protesting TNSTC employees said that the ongoing stir might continue unless the state government provides a concrete response fulfilling the demands of transport corporation employees.