PANAJI: A large-sized mottled brown  , ‘Fejervarya goemchi’, measuring 41 to 46mm and known for its long croaking ‘trook, trook’ call is the newest addition to the 30-odd list of amphibians documented in Goa.

 The new species has been found by a team of scientists led by K P Dinesh, from Zoological Survey of India ( ), Pune, in the state’s rooftop village of  . The frog derives its name from the state’s historical name.
 
 
  
 
  The area in the highland plateau of the Sahyadris transforms into a landscape of waterfalls during monsoon and can be accessed by road only through Karnataka.
 
 The ‘Fejervarya goemchi’ is named after the state’s historical name. “This is a much larger frog than the tiny fejerverayan frog ‘Fejervarya gomantaki’ described in 2015,” says Nirmal Kulkarni, herpetologist and team member.
 
 The beautiful frog with large and charming eyes issues its piping chorus call, sitting in temporary mud pools during the monsoon, late in the evening to night hours. “Many of these large-sized terrestrial fejervaryan frogs sit next to water bodies making calls to attract females for mating and breeding,” Kulkarni said.
 
 The team, comprising Kulkarni of   Research Centre, Goa, Priyanka Swami of Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore and P Deepak of Mount Carmel College, Bangalore, have described in all five species of amphibians, including two frogs and three caecilians. Their findings on the new species have been published in the recent edition of the Records of the ZSI.
 
 “The amphibian genus Fejervarya of the family Dicroglossidae are commonly known as either ‘cricket frogs’ or ‘fejervaryan frogs’. Though most of these frogs are terrestrial, they need water bodies to continue breeding and survival,” the study states.
 
 The type locality of the new species is within the close range of Karnataka’s diversion project at Kankumbi. Goa’s neighbour has almost completed a canal to divert the Kalsa tributary of Mhadei river while the work to construct a storage dam, nearer to Surla has not yet been taken up.
 
 The new finding indicates that Goa’s lesser-known amphibian biodiversity still needs serious documentation. New species are being described almost every year by researchers, say sources.
 
 Scientists plan to carry our further studies into its behaviour biology and ecology.
 
 
