RAJGIR: President   on Thursday said that India’s Act East policy was much more than a “diplomatic initiative”, aimed at not merely sharing economic opportunities but also integration of dreams and hopes of people of this country and South East Asia.

 The President was speaking at the inaugural function of the fourth edition of international Dharma-Dhamma conference at Rajgir International Convention Centre, organised jointly by Nalanda University (NU), the Centre for Study of Religion and Society, the India Foundation and the ministry of external affairs.
 
 Kovind said India, South East Asia and “other parts of Asia that are covered by the Dharma-Dhamma footprint shared a past with a common source and inevitably, our destiny too is linked”.
 
 The inaugural function of the three-day conference, based on the theme ‘State and Social Order in Dharma-Dhamma Traditions’, was also attended by Bihar governor Satya Pal Malik, CM  , deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and Sri Lankan foreign minister Tilak Marapana. Participants from 11 countries are attending the three-day conference at which 60 papers on its theme are likely to be discussed. 
 
 Kovind said the “timing of this conference is very appropriate. We are marking the 25th anniversary of the ASEAN-India Dialogue Partnership. The month of January is a celebration of the India-ASEAN relations”.
 
 New Delhi will host a commemorative summit on January 25 to mark the 25th anniversary of the Dialogue Partnership between India and the ASEAN in which all the leaders of the grouping are expected to participate.
 
 “I am told this conference will hear the wise words of eminent international delegates. They have come from far-off continents, including North and  . But most of all, they represent the breadth and diversity of Asia — from   to South East Asia,” the President said.
 
 Earlier, welcoming the delegates, Nitish pitched for the setting up of an International Centre for Conflict   at NU for which his government would provide land. A piece of land has been earmarked for providing accommodation to the heads of state who may visit the centre once it starts functioning.
 
 He thanked the organizers for choosing Rajgir as the event’s venue. “The place is relevant because the land was associated with Lord Buddha where he delivered sermons after attaining enlightenment at Bodh Gaya where Hindus from across the world gather every year to pray for the salvation of their ancestral souls,” Nitish said.
 
 The CM also said NU should make efforts to get the cyclopean wall declared a World Heritage Site by the  , the way he did for the ruins of Nalanda University. 
 
 Sri Lankan foreign minister Marapana said the Dharma principles are significant in maintaining global peace and harmony. “The Buddhist concept of good practices continue to unify the region through spirituality, love, forgiveness and compassion,” said Marapana.
 
 NU vice-chancellor Sunaina Singh welcomed the guests. Union secretary for east affairs Preeti Saran said the progress of the university, which functions under her ministry, was satisfactory and that the first phase of its building would be completed in 2020.
 
 
