KOLKATA: With strict restrictions hitting the leather industry hard in Uttar Pradesh, the Bengal government is expecting over Rs 5,000crore investment in the restructured Calcutta Leather Complex (CLC) at Bantala in the next five years. The industrial land under CLC has almost doubled from 252 acres to 492 acres, said state finance and industries minister Amit Mitra on the sidelines of the 23rd India International Leather Fair, organised by the   (ITPO).

 Mitra said that the state has received over 300 applications for setting up units at the restructured CLC.
 
 
  
 
 “We have got a very encouraging response to the new leather cluster which is coming up at Bantala. There are applications from leather industries in Kanpur and Chennai. We are doing due diligence to these applications. Besides big investments, it will translate into 2 lakh additional jobs,” he added.
 
 The regional chairman (east) of the Council for Leather Exports (CLE), Ramesh Juneja, said some big names in leather like Super House, Farida Group, Florence Shoes and Model Tanners have shown interest to invest in Bengal.
 
 Earlier, Mitra had said that the state government had written to the department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP) for co-funding the restructuring of CLC. “The total investment in the restructuring would be Rs 350 crore,” Mitra said. This includes renovation of affluent treatment plants, extension of affluent transportation system, de-silting of canals and hazardous waste pit, among others.
 
 Mitra said he hoped the leather industry in Bengal would get a big boost once the restructured CLC is in place and the new units start operation.
 
 The turnover from the leather industry in Bengal is around $2 billion, of which $1 billion is from export of leather goods from the state. Mitra said the leather industry should set a target of a $6-billion turnover in five years while the export should go up to $3 billion.
 
 “I feel that this figure is quite achievable considering the fact that the leather industry is experiencing a healthy growth in the state,” he added. Bengal accounts for 54% of leather goods produced in India. M Amin, chairman of CLE, said the leather industry is hoping for a double digit-growth in the next fiscal following a few negative quarters.
 
