Trichy: The venue might have been new, but Trichiites still participated in the seventh programme of  , which was held on Sunday, with the same enthusiasm.

 After holding the first three programmes at Thillai Nagar and the next three at Uzhavar Sandhai Link Road, the seventh edition of the programme was held at Race Course Road near Anna Stadium at Khajamalai on Sunday.
 
 Times of India, with the support of Trichy Corporation and Trichy City Police, kick-started Happy Streets programme at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) on February 25.
 
 The most heartening thing about this week’s programme was that despite the change in venue, some of the loyal participants extended their support irrespective of where it is being held. In fact, a sales manager at a healthcare organisation, M S Mani, along with his family, has been participating in Happy Streets programme since it was held at Thillai Nagar. Mani said that he was very satisfied that he was able to show kids how fun and exciting it is to participate in outdoor events. “This programme gave me an opportunity to show my kids how we enjoyed during childhood. Happy Streets is paving the way for children to spend less time on phone and gadgets and focus more on playing outside,” he said.
 
 The day started with the yoga session by Isha Foundation and was followed by a meditation session which was conducted by Brahma Kumaris. The participants engaged in both the sessions. 
 
 It was soon followed by contests for children, which included cycle-tyre racing and board games. A Class I student, M Deva Chandran, who has also been a Happy Streets regular, excitedly exclaimed, “Cycle-tyre racing is so much fun. I never get bored of it.”
 
 One of the participants, Priya Vairamani, who works at FM Rainbow, was a first-timer at Happy Streets and she said that she was pleasantly surprised at how involved people were in all the activities. “I heard about the programme from some of my colleagues who have been attending the event for the past two weeks. Hence, we planned and came up with our own games for children for the seventh programme. We are happy with the response,” she said.
 
 Owing to a very good response to the coin and currency exhibition in the past two weeks, as a continuation to this series, founder and president of Tiruchirappalli Notaphily Society, P Vijayakumar, conducted yet another coin exhibition where a rare collection of coins from Chola and the Pallava period were featured.
 
 The Happy Streets initiative will be conducted on every Sunday over the course of next five weeks in Trichy from 6 am to 9 am.
 
 Vox pop:
 
 I have been coming to Happy Streets right from when it was held at Thillai Nagar. Since I love dancing and taking part in contests.
 
 - M Akshaya, Class IV
 
 I didn’t know about Happy Streets before and this week was my first. My whole family enjoyed it.
 
 - Umaithurai R, employee at a micro-finance company
 
 I really liked the tattoo stall which was put up. I got inked with a very stylish temporary tattoo that I can show my friends.
 
 - K R Logu, Class VIII
 
 
