MARGAO: Caterers and small fast food outlets operating in the   district have been adversely impacted by the recent beef shortage.

 Caterers especially lamented that they were severely affected by the inadequate supply of beef and demanded that the state government immediately resolve this issue by providing adequate quantity of hygienic beef to consumers in Goa. 
 
 STOI spoke to some of the caterers who said that it was peak business season for them currently with plenty of parties and weddings. 
 
 The paucity of adequate beef supply has resulted in them losing a lot of the business since they had to convince clients to substitute beef items with chicken dishes on their party menu as fish and mutton are both very expensive.
 
 Proprietors of two small Goan fast food chain outlets told STOI that they had received many orders of beef croquettes and other such items for first holy communion parties for Sunday. They were now unsure of what to inform their clients. One caterer (who did not wish to be named) said, “I have cancelled the order for beef croquettes due to the shortage.”
 
  of Pinto caterers,   said, “I have received many orders to cater for the weddings, but there is insufficient supply of beef so I am facing difficulties. I was considering replacing the beef items with fish but it will be very costly. Prices of mutton have also increased from Rs 290 to Rs 450 per kg. The government should provide adequate hygienic quantity of beef in Goa so that there is no need to procure beef from outside (Goa), which results in frequent hassles.”
 
 Paul Rebello of Paul caterers,   said, “There is no supply of beef today and mutton is always expensive so I will have to ask my clients to take an alternative like chicken nuggets for starters.” 
 
 Felix Fernandes of Marlin caterers said, “I bought my stock of beef yesterday or I would have faced problems today.” 
 
 However, the cold storage outlets in   functioned as normal on Saturday with traders claiming to have received adequate supply of beef.
 
 
