KOLKATA: While Class-X   students in the city rejoiced at the board’s decision not to hold a re-test for the mathematics paper,   students and their parents had to scurry to cancel their post-exam vacation plans even as they stared at an uneasy three weeks leading to their economics re-test on April 25.

 Bharatiya   Class XII examinee Raunak Dasgupta was supposed to leave the city on April 18 to visit his maternal grandparents in Nagpur. On Friday, he called his father and asked him to cancel his ticket. “Without the retest, my exams would have got over on April 11. I had planned to visit my grandparents after three years. I am extremely upset now. We will have to book the tickets again, now that the re-test date has been announced,” said the youngster from Beliaghata. He seems to be even more upset that he will now have to study economics all over again. “I was confident of scoring 90% in the cancelled paper. Now, it will be a different paper.”
 
 
 Anindita Majumdar will leave for Sikkim on April 27 with her twin daughters, Anushna and Anushka, both Class XII CBSE candidates. Luckily for them, the re-test has been scheduled two days before their travel date. “Our tickets and hotel bookings were done weeks ago. We had our fingers crossed. Had it been on a later date, we would have had to cancel the trip. This is an unthinkable situation. My daughters are happy that they will not miss the trip, but my younger daughter is depressed on finding out that she had answered most questions in the cancelled paper correctly,” said Majumdar. Anushna felt “terrible that she has to reappear for the economics exam”.
 
 Haryana Vidya Mandir Class XII student Moksha Chaturvedi was looking forward to an Agra trip with her family. On learning about the re-test schedule, she and her family had to cancel the tickets, as her exam is now due just a day after her original travel date. “I was supposed to leave on April 24. I had expected an earlier date and am feeling depressed,” she said. “For now, I will revise the paper and concentrate on the portions I had left out.”
 
 Moumita Dasgupta of   was excited about a trip to Digha in the third week of April. On Friday, the Dasguptas cancelled the plan. “My parents will now have to make new plans. Given the original schedule, my last paper was supposed to be on April 7, but now it has been stretched to April 25. I am trying to keep myself focused so that I do not lapse into a stress-free mode,” Moumita said.
 
 But Class X   Soham Sen is thrilled that his mid-April Digha trip stays on course. “I had cancelled the plan and tickets were refunded. Now that no re-test will be held, my plans are back on track,” a gleeful Soham said. Harishankar Nair, another Class X student from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, is equally happy: “Hyderabad is back on my travel plan. Now that the re-test will not be held, we can leave on April 4. We thankfully did not cancel our tickets.”
 
