BENGALURU: The   and the Bangalore International Airport Limited ( ) are planning to tie up with private porter services for ferrying luggage of air travellers between   buses and the Kempegowda International Airport ( ).

 The corporation may join hands with app-based aggregators that provide cabs and autorickshaws from bus stops to passengers’ destinations in the city. These aggregators will also provide first-mile connectivity to the nearest bus stop to those going to the airport. 
 
 Sources said the agencies are in talks with several airlines so that passengers can book their bus tickets, porter services and first- and last-mile connectivity in advance from any airport in the country. Besides,   is holding discussions with private firms to sell food and beverages for passengers in Vayu Vajra buses.
 
 The number of passengers passing through KIA every year rose from 12.78 million in 2013 to 25.04 million in 2017. This translates to an average of 68,500 passengers per day. However, BMTC officials said the number of daily passengers travelling in 100 Vayu Vajra buses in 15 routes is between 8,000 and 10,000.
 
 “This project aims to ensure seamless transit movement for passengers travelling in Vayu Vajra buses to and from the airport. We’re planning to double the number of passengers,” said a BMTC official.
 
 Under the proposed plan, a passenger can book a Vayu Vajra bus ticket,   and last-mile connectivity service in advance from a booking counter in any Indian airport.
 
 “For instance, porters will carry the passenger’s baggage from the conveyor belt and drop it in the Vayu Vajra bus which they are planning to take. For passengers reaching KIA, porters will ferry luggage from the bus to the airport,” said an official, adding that the facility is optional and mainly for passengers having multiple luggage.
 
 “We’ll tie up with app-based aggregators, especially autorickshaws, for last- or first-mile connectivity to and from the nearest bus stop. We are planning to provide snacks to passengers at affordable cost in Vayu Vajra buses during their one-hour journey. This will help those taking early and late flights as they may not have time to buy food,” the official added.
 
 BIAL recently installed a check-in kiosk in a Vayu Vajra bus on a pilot basis. BMTC, whose Vayu Vajra ridership has been shrinking after the entry of app-based cabs, hopes these facilities will attract more passengers.
 
