Just before leaving for Australia to participate in the Commonwealth Games (CWG),   had posted on social media, “Four years of dream and toil, four years of patience and perseverance. So, when I am lucky to get a second chance, I am determined not to return with bare hands.  , here we come!” Well, Harmeet has fulfilled that wish, and how! The TT champ from Surat played a key role in Team India’s gold medal winning performance, as he won the doubles match in the final against Nigeria. Speaking to Ahmedabad Times from Australia, an elated Harmeet shares: “During the last CWG, the men’s team had lost to Nigeria and so, this is sweet revenge. I am very happy but the celebrations can wait. I have three more important events lined up and I want to win at least one more medal for India.”

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Right at the top, for sure! Although I have won medals for India in the past, this is certainly the best moment of my career. This is my first CWG medal and the feeling is yet to sink in. I still can’t believe that we have finally done it! Not many expected us to go all the way but our hard work and self-belief ensured that we managed to achieve what we wanted. I dedicate this win to my parents, elder brother and my coach Peter Karlson, who stood by me and kept motivating me even when I wasn’t going through a great phase.
 
 
 
 
 
 My elder brother sent me a screenshot of some of these messages and it feels really good. But right now, my complete focus is on the remaining events and I will check my social media pages only after all the events get over. I will certainly respond to all the messages and I feel grateful for such love and support. Immediately after the award ceremony, I called up my mom and it was a great feeling when my parents said that they were very proud of what the Indian team had done. It’s wonderful to represent the dreams of millions of Indians. When you see the Indian flag flying high after such performances, the feeling can’t be described in words. It’s magical!
 
 
 
 Yes. Nobody expected the Indian women’s team to win the gold because they were pitted against some very tough opponents. So, when they managed to win in the final, it was a huge source of inspiration for our entire team. For us also, the journey wasn’t easy. We had a very tough match against Singapore and at one point, we were trailing in the doubles match. But we managed to turn it around from a very difficult situation and winning that close encounter was a big psychological boost for us.
 
 
 
 Towards the end of this month, Team India will be playing in the first division after a very long time and I am really looking forward to that. Also, I want to ensure that we win medals at the upcoming Asian Games too.
 
 
 
 Yes, rice and desserts are no longer part of my diet. Since ice-cream is among my favorite desserts, saying no to it was a very tough decision but this dream of winning the CWG gold eventually convinced me to make that sacrifice. However, I will have an ice-cream now, after the CWG is over. I had promised myself that I will have an ice-cream if we win the CWG gold and now, I think I have earned it (smiles)! As a sportsperson, there are certain sacrifices that you must make but when you win a medal for the country, it really seems worth it. I remember how friends in Surat would ask me to accompany them for movies but I would find an excuse to say ‘no’, as I wanted to focus on my training. I haven’t been to a movie hall in the last two years. Once I am back to Surat, I will watch a film on the big screen!
 
