BENGALURU:   alias Naga, who was arrested last year after crores of rupees in demonetized notes were allegedly recovered from his house in Srirampura, attempted suicide by consuming poison at a press conference he had called at   of Bengaluru on Friday.

 A former corporator and an aspiring contestant for the May 12 assembly election from Gandhinagar constituency, central Bengaluru, Nagaraj claimed that supporters of two Congress leaders were threatening him and asking him not to contest in this election.
 
 Nagaraj distributed among presspersons a suicide note in the form of a 52-page booklet titled, Death Note By V Nagaraj. The report named several politicians, police officers and wives of some of them as those responsible for his death.
 
 Nagaraj’s supporters rushed him to a private hospital, where he is said to be out of danger.
 
 Addressing the press conference that began at 1.30pm Nagaraj, who is planning to contest as an independent, alleged that the Congress-led state government had done injustice to him by arresting him in a false case of money-exchange racket. He also alleged that a few IPS officers had conspired with the government to frame him in the case. 
 
 Within 10 minutes of the press meet, Nagaraj pulled out a bottle and began drinking its contents. However, with journalists in the front and his supporters trying to stop him, contents of the bottle fell on the floor. 
 
 Vidhana Soudha police said Nagaraj is out of danger and they haven’t registered an attempt-to-suicide case against him. They said he consumed  .
 
 “We haven’t yet registered a case against him, but we are thinking of taking suo motu action against him,” said Chandragupta, deputy commissioner of police (central division).
 
 Nagaraj was arrested by Srirampura police on March 29 for allegedly extorting money from his sister-in-law and trying to illegally occupy her property. He was arrested in 2017 for allegedly running a racket of currency exchange post demonetization. In both cases, he was released on bail.
 
 
