GAYA: With assets division and apportionment of teaching and non-teaching employees between   and its new offshoot   set to be done over the next few days, all eyes are now set on the two important meetings slated to be held at Raj Bhavan on April 5 and 11 to chalk out the modalities for the same. 

 Post-bifurcation, MU will have only 19 constituent and one government funded minority colleges whereas Pataliputra University will have 25 constituent and three government funded minority colleges. In respect of enrolment, too, 3 lakh of the nearly five lakh registered students of MU would be attached to the new university. In percentage terms, truncated MU will be left with 42% of its undivided resources, with the remaining 58% going to the Pataliputra University.
 
 However, in respect of campus, the parent university will retain the entire 460-acre campus, while Pataliputra University struggles for 40 acre, the minimum requirement for UGC recognition. Initially, the new varsity was to get 15 acres of land near   in Patna, but in view of the UGC criteria, more land will be required. Sources said a 40-acre plot will be made available either at Bihta or Phulwarisharif.
 
 Documents accessed by this newspaper reveal that MU has made its own proposal for apportionment of the employees. But in order to be made effective, the formula has to be vetted at the proposed meeting in which, besides the VCs of Magadh and Pataliputra universities, those of Purnia and Munger universities and senior officials of the education department would also participate. The meet would be chaired by  , principal secretary to the governor cum chancellor.
 
 The Raj Bhavan, according to sources, favours a uniform division formula for all the three universities — Magadh University, BN Mandal University, Madhepura and Tilka Manjhi University, Bhagalpur.
 
 As on date, there are about 1,400 teachers and 2,300 non-teachers working in undivided MU. About 500 non-teachers and 90 teachers working in the university headquarters and PG depts would be split in two unequal parts for the apportionment purposes.
 
 The government, in 2013, imposed a ban on direct recruitment of non-teachers and all vacancies, post the cutoff date, have to be filled through outsourcing.
 
 
