NAGPUR: The   ( ) has slapped a termination notice on PPP garbage treatment operator Hanjer Biotech Energies Pvt Ltd. A penalty of Rs1.64 crore has also been levied on the company for its failure to operate the municipal solid waste (MSW) treatment plant.

 NMC, in its notice dated April 21, has directed Hanjer Biotech to reply to the notice within 60 days. “It is established that you are not competent and capable to keep the MSW treatment plant in running condition and process the solid waste. Your inaction and incompetence is causing damage to the environment due to which the National Green Tribunal (NGT) may impose fine,” the notice stated.
 
 NMC also show caused Hanjer Biotech to levy liquidated damages of Rs50,000 per day with effect from March 16.
 
 A NMC official told TOI directives have been given to the operator to hand over the MSW plant to NMC within 60 days. “It was a BoT project, so NMC will take over the plant. Hanjer Biotech was responsible to treat 600 tonne solid waste daily and reuse it. But the operator is treating only 150-200 tonne daily for last few years. Also, the plant is shut many times citing various reasons. The plant has been non-operational for last many days. Penalty of Rs1.64 crore has been levied on the operator. Another Rs50,000 per day will be imposed on the operator from March 16,” he said.
 
 Earlier, NMC had planned to continue with Hanjer Biotech along with new PPP operator Nagpur Solid Waste Processing and Management Private Ltd (NSWPMPL), a company incorporated by Essel Infraprojects Limited, and Hitachi Zosan India Private Ltd, for constructing, operating and maintaining 11.50MW power plant for 15 years. NMC’s plan seems to have changed with termination notice being issued to Hanjer Biotech.
 
 NMC sources told TOI land on which Hanjer Biotech’s plan is situated will be handed over for waste-to-energy project. “NSWPMPL has started the process to develop the project. Garbage dumped in around five acres land is being shifted to another place. NMC will hand over 10 acres for the project. Construction activities will begin after bhoomipuja. NMC has requested appointment of CM Devendra Fadnavis and union minister Nitin Gadkari for the bhoomipuja,” sources said.
 
 With closure of Hanjer Biotech’s plant, NMC’s solid waste treatment will come down to nil for two years. The new operator is likely to take two years to construct and commission its plant.
 
 
