MUMBAI: Amruta   (23, in pic), who grew up in an orphanage in Goa and is currently pursuing her masters in economics in Pune, is the face behind the state government’s historic decision to give 1%   in the open category for orphans. The state move is aimed at helping   get education and employment, especially in government services.

 While there are 3,900 orphans in state-run orphanges, their numbers in private orphanages is not known.
 
 Karvande, a second-year MA economics student of Modern College in Pune, said her father left her in an orphange in Ponda, Goa, when she was barely two years old. “While leaving me at Matruchhaya, he put down my name in the register, that’s how I have a name and a surname. I do not remember how my father looks or even his name. I don’t even remember my mother,” said Karvande, who was recuperating in a hospital after undergoing a nasal operation two days ago. As she could not speak for long on the phone, she asked a friend, Kamal Narayan, to take questions from TOI and responded through him.
 
 Karvande was 18 years old when she left the orphanage. In 2017, she appeared for the   Public Service Commission (MPSC) exam and scored 39 marks out of 100. The cut-off for open women category was 35, but because she did not have a certificate that requires to state her parents’ caste, she was forced to seek posting from the open general category, where the cut-off was 46. “I had given a combined exam for police sub-inspector, sales tax inspector or the government assistant post. I would have got through the police sub-inspector exam if I were able to get through the open women category,” said Karvande, who aspires to secure a deputy collector’s post.
  
  
 Since the day she got her results in October 2017, Karvande ran from pillar to post, meeting various state officers asking them to consider her case. When everything else failed, she approached chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in December and presented her case. “I have had a very tough time funding my studies. I have taken up part-time jobs in shops to pay my fees. I have also had to sleep on the railway station when I came to Pune initially as I was yet to be alloted a hostel,” she said.
 
 Ecstatic that the government considered her problem and came out with a solution by reserving 1% seats for orphans in education and government jobs, Karvande told TOI: “This is not just a victory for me. A lot of students will benefit from this decision. This will give us an opportunity to be assimilated into the mainstream.” She plans to sit for MPSC again.
 
 The reservation, termed parallel reservation, will be provided under the general category, which means the government won’t need to increase its caste reservation quota that has already reached 52%. Parallel reservation means, of the total jobs available under the general category, 1% will be reserved only for orphans.
 
 
