MOHALI: In the absence of a proposal with regard to introducing paid parking at the city markets, it seems that the councillors of the municipal corporation (MC) here may not be in for the change. The proposal (agenda) was supposed to be submitted 22 hours before the   house meet, which is scheduled for Monday.

 In a February house meet, the matter regarding imposing paid parking was taken up and the area councillors were asked to prepare a proposal to implement it. The move that was proposed by Mayor   was unanimously agreed by the all councillors.
 
 
 At the meet, it was observed that the councilors, who had been opposing the paid parking surprisingly agreed to bring about the agenda. They had alleged that chaotic parking lots in   markets had forced the residents to head to Chandigarh where they find proper parking space.
 
 Taking a U-turn, most of the councillors are now seen refuting the proposed move.
 
 One of the MC councillors, who wished not to be named said, “We do not want to introduce paid parking in the city. During elections, we had promised that paid parking will not be promoted and solution would be sorted to manage parking lots in city markets better.”
 
 “Parking lots can be managed without putting burden on the residents. Sector 22 Chandigarh market association is managing parking lots very successfully and that too without any charges,” said councillor  .
 
 Meanwhile, Mohali mayor is of the view that paid parking here is the need of the hour. “Markets have gone non-manageable due to wrong and haphazard parking leading to scuffles. Also, many traders have come up with complaints that visitors are shifting to Chandigarh as they do not find proper parking spaces in Mohali markets. We will raise the issue once again in Monday house meet,” the mayor said.
 
 Gurjeet Singh, one of the traders in busy phase V market said, “Parking lots always remain congested and we lose customer. Paid parking would put things into place,” said  , a trader in Phase V market.
 
 Earlier in March 2014, paid parking was introduced in Mohali but could not survive due to resistance by the residents.
 
