

 As Valentine’s Day dawns on our city in a rush of pink balloons, gift packages and straitlaced love, CT decided to look around for those whom society has singled out for ridicule because of their sexual orientation. We bring you two stories, each of which can make your V-Day more inclusive and loving.
 
 DIYASHA AND SHASWATA
 
 This couple will be celebrating their 12th Valentine’s Day today. “I fell for him when I was just 17. We got married in 2007 during Durga Puja. I told my family members about our relationship only after our marriage. I will never forget their reaction. My cousins told me, ‘If you wanted to sleep with a guy, you could have chosen one of us’. I left my home with just my mobile phone,” remembers Diyasha. The two of them had nowhere to go. “We started walking aimlessly. I still remember that we spent five days at Howrah station,” says Shaswata.
 
 LOST CHILDHOOD
 
 “I was afraid to go to school. Girls face molestation when they’re growing up, but in my case, it was beyond tolerance,” recalls Diyasha.
 After all the brutalities in school, when I met someone who did not judge me by my sexual orientation — rather, he held me tight, knowing he would have to face hostilities because of me — how can I not fall for him?” asks Diyasha. “Had I been married to a girl, would I have loved her because of who she was, or simply because she was a girl? Then why should I bother about the sexual orientation of my wife? She may be a man biologically, but she is a woman at heart. Isn’t that good enough for me to accept her as my wife?” justifies Shaswata, whose mother was liberal enough to accept the relationship. He lost his father when he was young.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 TWO BODIES, ONE SOUL
 
 When Diyasha’s family spurned them, she knew she had nothing to lose. “I have enough self-respect and I knew that I would never have children, so I needn’t bother about my family property,” she says bluntly. “If you cut yourself, only you will feel the pain. But you need someone to apply medicine on the wound. Shaswata is that medicine for my wounded life. He gives me the mental strength to fight all odds. Every day is a challenge for us. But I know he will always be with me. We are truly two bodies with one soul.”
 
 ROMI AND SARAH
 
 The love story of this couple is bound to shake up all your preconceived notions about relationships. Sarah and Romi will celebrate their second Valentine’s Day this year. “Last year, we both had exams on February 14, so we celebrated a few days later. But this year, we plan to spend the day together and then have dinner at some road-side restaurant,” says Sarah, kissing Romi’s hand.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 HATE CAN’T CONQUER LOVE
 
 This young lesbian couple — both are still students — keeps getting hate messages on  . “Though our college friends have accepted us the way we are, it’s not the same everywhere. We often come across comments like ‘If you feel the pleasure of sleeping with a guy, you will forget about sleeping with a girl’. We can often see the hate in people’s eyes,” points out Romi. For her, an understanding of her sexual orientation came very early. “I realised that I was not attracted to guys. I went to a girls’ school. I don’t know what the reason was — maybe at that age girls don’t manage to spend time with guys — but a couple of girls also grew close to me. I didn’t find that to be abnormal,” remembers Romi. Later, my friends would tell me, ‘Once you find a guy, you will forget your feelings for girls’. I could not make them understand that for me, that was not the case,” says Romi.
 
 WHY JUDGE THEM?
 
 “We’re girls, and it so happens that we feel comfortable with each other. Does that mean we can’t be seen as normal anymore? Maybe our sexual orientation is different. But how does it matter?” both of them ask in unison.
 Since they are young, they still don’t know what the future holds for the two of them. Romi is scared her father will not accept them. For Sarah, it has been a journey of realisation. “My parents were hesitant about accepting us the way we are, but gradually, I have made them understand that ours is as natural as a heterosexual relationship. For my sake, they did a lot of research online about the LGBTQ community and finally accepted us. I personally believe that only a girl can understand a girl completely. That’s why Romi and I are so compatible,” concludes Sarah.
 
 — PUSHPITA DEY
 
 
