
 
  While Goa’s often played host to India’s top designers thanks to its picturesque  , they seem to be heading to the state even more frequently nowdays for all the other offbeat venues it has to offer. Just last month, for example, designers   and Vilvin Sabu showcased their imperial designs at the Reis Magos Fort, while   showcased her collection at a popular contemporary art   in Pilerne in May 2016. Lalit Dalmia showcased his dreamy collection with an unusual and extravagant show on the beach in March last year – where the guests were actually seated on chairs placed in the sand, and the ramp was set against the backdrop of the setting sun.
  In the past, Ramesh Dembla has showcased collections at a beach shack, where models walked the breezy runway, while the guests enjoyed cocktails, while Anupama Dayal created a fun evening at a starred resort in Miramar, using the promenade by River Mandovi as her runway. Then, there’s Nivedita Saboo’s show, that took place at an art school located in a colonial bungalow last season.
  In addition to this, Goan resortwear and swimwear designers, like Monty Sally and Syne Coutinho, too have been using the poolside as their ramp, while there’s no dearth of shows that happen at bars and restaurants as well.
  Here’s a look at Goa’s evolution into a quirky   playground, for designers to experiment with.
  
  
 
  
  ‘Goa has the most exciting venue options compared to any other part of the country’
  
  Pallav Ojha, organiser of a fashion week in Goa, says, “We are lucky to have the most exciting venue options in the country. From beaches and museums, to forts, huge pools, modern architecture, yachts and more! We also have some of the coolest cafes and bars, with beautiful interiors.”
  He adds how designers like to premiere their collections here due to the whole exotic factor of the ambience, and to simply stand out from amateur designers. Then there’s the fact that Goa is the perfect venue for certain types of fashion – “We have experimented with beachwear, resortwear, partywear, destination bridal clothing... which is all in sync with what Goa has to offer, as a destination,” says Pallav, whose worked with designers, hosting opening and closing shows at museums, beach, and promenades.
  
  
 
  
  Exploring every possible venue…
  
  Most designers love to debut their resortwear collections here, at restaurants, breezy beach shacks or even promenades by the river. The sunset seems like the favourite time of the day for shows on the beach (with a ramp on the sand).
  Swimwear designers usually explore the pool-side options in Goa, and try to innovate within that set-up as well. “On NYE this year, we had a show in a resort in Arpora, where they created a ramp on top of the pool by covering the pool with glass and models walked on top of the shimmering water,” says Isha Hiroji, a show choreographer and model. Some swimwear designers even have models taking a dip in the waters at the end of the show.
  Interestingly, just last month, a sports wear brand launched their Goa collection which saw India’s top showstoppers Candice Pinto, Deepti Gujral, Lakshmi Rana and Kanishtha Dhankhar showcasing their merchandise inside a boxing cage. The event, held at a beach resort in Morjim, included a boxing match, live music and an after-party.
  Local designers and models have experimented with mall fashion shows, by posing in elevators or turning into live mannequins. “Once, we had models walking inside the store, though people ouside could see it through the glass. Once we turned an entire mall into a runway, where two models walked across the first and second floor at the same time, even as people on all levels could witness it,” says Newton Dias, a show choreographer and founder of a fashion week in Goa, adding, “These spontaneous venues makes all of us think out-of-the-box. There was a fashion show by a prominent brand recently at an outdoor venue in Ponda, which isn’t your usual venue, but it was different and interesting. I think, people actually get fed up of the same format of fashion shows. Spectacular shows like these have a lasting impact, because they have a good time. The scenic beauty adds to the charm of the show. The entire experience includes cocktails, drinks, food or snacks, and that matters, because people will like the vibe and eventually want to buy clothes by the designers.”
