CHANDIGARH: “I joined the Army, because I had already spent time in a so-called male-dominated department of civil engineering for many years. After that, Army made more sense because it is also a male-dominated sphere. I wanted to do some more male bashing,” said Lieutenant Colonel Monica Mishra, a civil engineering graduate from  , 1993 batch.

 Present with two of her female batchmates   (New Delhi) and   (Chandigarh), the trio stood out as the only three female graduates of the batch of 1993 from the civil engineering field.
 
 Recalling the strength of female engineering students back in 1993, Seema Awasthi, who has her own consulting firm and works in the space of urban, environment and design said, “Out of a batch of 400 students from all the streams, we were only twenty-three girls. That was the ratio. Out of which, three of us were in civil alongwith one more, who could not come as she lives in  .”
 
 While, Mishra and Bhatia were, then, based in Chandigarh and were day scholars, Awasthi, who was based in Delhi was a hosteller. “At that time, civil engineering was considered to be a male-dominated stream and not many girls used to opt for this. But, I had a merit and had the option of choosing between architecture and civil. So, I chose civil.”
 
 “The first year was awkward for me in terms of dealing with the male classmates because I had a girls’ school background, back in Delhi. But, soon after, when we all became friends, it was much better and we used to have a lot of fun. My husband, who is here with me, was actually my classmate in PEC and we are among the only two couples from PEC to have come today,” added Awasthi. Interestingly, the alumni admitted that the 1993 batch of civil had the lowest number of female students in comparison to the senior and the junior batches.
 
 While Mishra has now completed 22 years of service in the Army and is still serving, she is also considered to be one of the senior-most female officers in the wing of civil engineers.
 
 On the other hand, Pratima Bhatia, who is now a homemaker, has a history in teaching and has also worked for a design firm. “I have actually taken a sabbatical from work to focus on my daughter, who is now studying in the ninth standard. My son studies in IIT,” beamed Bhatia, with a sense of accomplishment.
 
 When asked about the attitude and interaction of their male classmates back during their time, the alumni mentioned an interesting fact. Everytime the girls used to sit in any row, no other boy from the class would sit in the same row, not even the rows available in front of the said row. 
 
 “One day, we decided to start sitting in the last row,” said Awasthi, while bursting into a laughter. They admitted to have broken the   about gender roles prevalent in the education and feel great that in today’s time, this bigotry has ended.
 
 
