JAIPUR: Anushka Khandelwal (19), of   (JPHS) secured an AIR 25 in Common Law Admission Test ( ) 2018, getting a seat in one of the best law colleges of the country, the   (NLU), Bangalore. 

 
 Anushka proudly shared, "Neither I, nor my parents had expected me to get into the top NLU College. But I always worked hard, took a year off after my Class XII when I didn't get into NLU in my first attempt. I was more determined this time and my three-year long preparations paid off."
 
 Being active on social media does not help when one has to clear such a competitive exam, said Anushka. She added, "Self-determination and self-study were my vitamins because coaching was advantageous as you get your sources from there but being passionate about your career is what everyone should have."
 
 "My parents were my constant support; they never let me feel low during my entire phase of preparation when I took a year off and sometimes when I saw my other friends in college enjoying their lives, it somewhere made me conscious and unhappy about my career choices. But my parents were always supportive and proud of the fact that I dropped a year for something I really wanted to do," said Anushka.
 
 Hailing from a business-oriented family, Anushka wished to take up a different profession. "Law is what I was always very passionate about. Everyone in my contact motivated me. I wanted to help my father and my uncle in their business, as law is something that one requires in any business." Anushka added, "Whenever I saw people in my vicinity filing legal cases, it showed that they had concerns on whether or not they will get justice and they didn't trust their legal system entirely. So, I aspire to help people who are deprived of their rights or justice and I want to go for litigation law to fight for the marginalized section of the society rather than working for political parties or for influential people."
 
 "Being a girl and seeing the present happenings in the society I used to get really shocked and upset reading about tolling number of rapes and murders in the country in the newspapers and I was flabbergasted when the blame came down to inefficient legal system for injustice to the victims, so all of it really motivated me to express my feelings through my career." said Khandelwal.
 
