KOLKATA: A preliminary probe into the latest   at a south Kolkata school has indicated that none among the seven CCTV cameras installed on the campus was functioning. They were switched off due to the ongoing renovation work.

 Also, the school chose not to inform the police after it first learnt about the incident on Thursday. Instead, the child’s mother was asked to “furnish proof” to corroborate her allegations, the West Bengal Commission for Protection of Child Rights has found.
 
 
  
  
 
 The school is affiliated to the  .
 
 Soumitra Roy, a member of the commission who visited the school along with another member Sudeshna Roy on Friday, said the school had several security requirements. “The CCTVs are not functioning. Further, we have come to know that the girl’s parents had informed the matter to the principal on Thursday. Yet, the authorities did not inform the matter to police. This is gross negligence and we will mention it in our report,” Roy said.
 
 The security arrangements inside the school are far from being satisfactory, alleged the parents. According to them, the school has female attendants but a number of male attendants and guards use the girls’
 
 toilet. They further pointed out that there is not enough security for the girls since “outsiders” hired from vendors are given access to the school frequently.
 
 Aggrieved parents also alleged that the school authorities refuse to communicate whenever the parents request for regular interaction with teachers. “Even when we went to meet the principal on Thursday evening, accompanying the mother of the child, she refused to let us speak saying that the matter doesn’t concern us,” said the mother of a Class II student.
 
 After a similar molestation allegation that had sufaced in a south Kolkata school last year, education minister   had asked the shcools to hire female attendants to guard washrooms and keep watch while girls are ferried to and from school in buses. The education department had also asked the authorities to hold regular interaction between   and have separate washroom for boys and girls.
 
 Kalyanmoy Ganguly, the president of the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education, denied any knowledge of the incident. “We are affiliating and exam-conducting body. Moreover, I am not in Kolkata and have not heard about the incident. I will return on Sunday and next week will meet the school education department authorities to get further instructions,” he said.
 
 
