THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a move to ensure effective monitoring of projects, maintenance of tracks and other railway infrastructure development,   will introduce the service of   for aerial videography of the entire division track.

  The aerial videography and orthophoto (aerial mapping) work has been estimated at Rs 93.02 lakh. It is likely to be completed in six months.
 
 It was following the directive of ministry of   to utilize the service of unmanned aerial drones to enhance safety and efficiency of train operations, that the division authorities invited tender for the work. Drone cameras were proposed to undertake monitoring activities of relief and rescue operations, project monitoring, progress of important works, conditions of tracks and inspection related activities.
 
 Existing railway infrastructure, buildings, structures, level crossings, approaches, major and minor bridges, guide bunds, pipe culverts, stations, yard, depots, track connectivity, encroachments, obstructions, roads, major site features and so on come under the project. The   coordinates of the data will help to identify the location easily.
 
 According to a senior engineer from railway division, the service of drones is expected to bringing effective management of future construction projects in Thiruvananthapuram division.
 
 “A preliminary feasibility study could be conducted through the captured images and if required a detailed study can be conducted. The present field inspection is mostly limited to tracks and is time consuming, while the drone will help to inspect buildings and other structures as well as save time. We can inspect the track for any fissures easily through these images and video. The latitude and longitude in the GPS system will help to locate the spot, which needs immediate attention and needed rectification can be done in the area,” said the official.
 
 At present, the survey and assessment of railway tracks is conducted through field inspection. The data available through drones can be utilized for asset mapping and during emergency situations.
 
 “The present tender is invited for video and photographs of the entire division area. In the next phase, it is being planned to conduct inspection on bridges and other structures and take up required strengthening work. It is difficult to conduct manual inspection on the bridges,” added the official.
 
 
