BENGALURU: The government has found that 8,372 of its 20,000-odd designated offices have denied lakhs of citizens on-time delivery of its services for five years, by not receiving even a single application under the Karnataka   Services Act, 2011, since its inception.

 The flagship scheme introduced first in March 2012 has been receiving 20 lakh applications every month on average, and officials claim it has a disposal rate of more than 90%. It has even won the Commonwealth Award and earned ISO 9008 certification.
 
 However, the fact that more than 8,000 or 40% of the government offices have not received even one complaint from 2013, has been termed a violation of the Act and Additional Chief Secretary Vijay Bhaskar TM has convened a meeting of all the Deputy Commissioners and District CEOs on January 8. 
 These facts from a government audit were discussed in a review meeting on December 29, which was convened in the wake of Chief Minister Siddaramaiah’s announcement that the government will strengthen the existing Act to ensure that corruption is rooted out of the system.
 
  
  
 
 The 8,372 offices that did not receive even a single complaint are spread across 74 departments, with the department of health and family welfare and department of public instruction (DPI) accounting for the most. Together they account for 14.5% of these offices. There are more than 700 services that citizens can avail under Sakala.
 
 Confirming the issues relating to Sakala, Bhaskar said: “Overall, the scheme is working well. We see about 20 lakh applications every month and more than 90% of those are disposed off. However, there are some issues, including zero receipts, which we want to address. In the meeting with the DCs and CEOs, which will happen through video conferencing, all this will be discussed and we’ll prepare a roadmap to improve the same.”
 
 
 
 
 Among other issues that have been were pointed out on December 29, was the fact that there were 60 lakh applicants who were not provided the service within the stipulated time frame, but only two officials have been held accountable so far. 
 
 Officials dealing with Sakala have pointed out that in several government offices, officials are accepting applications manually despite there being computers only to escape accountability. “It is not that there are no applications coming in at these offices, but officials are not registering them under Sakala to avoid punishment if there is any delay,” Bhaskar also said.
 
 Earlier this month, a study conducted by the union ministry of law and justice claimed that the Sakala scheme was still dominated by middlemen forcing people to go through them instead of using the provisions of the Act that guarantees them timely service.
 
 
  
  
 
