NOIDA: Four Youth Congress workers were arrested in Noida on Saturday for trying to burn effigies of Prime Minister   and RSS chief   during a protest march.

 Nearly 50 Youth Congress members took out a protest march against the alleged Rs 11,400-crore scam involving Nirav Modi and recent comments by the RSS chief on the army. The march took a violent turn when the police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the protesters.
 
 Around 12.30pm, the Youth Congress workers held the march from Sector 18 metro station to Atta Peer Chowk, raising slogans against Prime Minister Modi and Bhagwat.
 
 The protesters demanded the exit of Narendra Modi for the “series of financial scams” under his regime and accused Bhagwat of defaming the army. Bhagwat had recently made some comments in Bihar that seemed to suggest that while the country takes around six months to prepare an army, the RSS could do so in three days, if asked for.
 
 Sources said a police team that had been deployed to keep an eye on the march tried to restrain the Youth Congress members from setting fire to the effigies. A clash ensued, following which the police resorted to a lathicharge and arrested four of the protesters.
 
 Anil Shahi, the SHO of Sector 20 police station, said state Youth Congress president  , district president of the outfit Deepaa Bhati Chotiwala, UP general secretary Purushottam Nagar and party member Sanjeev Nagar were arrested and booked under section 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC.
 
 “They will be released after bail,” he said.
 
 Congress leaders alleged that three members of the GB Nagar Youth Congress were injured during the lathicharge. During the rally, Chotiwala alleged that the claim of the BJP, which had come to power on the plank of putting a stop to corruption, were false.
 
 “Even after four years in power, the Modi brigade is behaving as if the Congress is in power. They hold the previous Congress-led government responsible for every scam and wrong policy,” he said.
 
 Purushottam Nagar, the general secretary of UP Youth Congress, said that since the BJP had come to power, the RSS had started throttling democracy and had “raised questions on the army, too.”
 
 
