

 Last month, Samir Bhat, a 38-year-old journalist who grew up in Kashmir’s Sopore and later moved to Dubai, shared a moving post about his search for his friend Bunty. Samir, a Kashmiri Muslim, reminisced about the Kouls who were his neighbours. “The year…when all our Pandit friends (  and his extended family) had left New Colony for some camp in  , I looked out of my room, over the sad, abandoned homes of our neighbours…In no time it started to rain…Instinctively, I looked at the calender. Shivratri, Herath. Of course, it had to rain. Once again Herath was here, and so were the showers but there were no Kouls. No soaked walnuts. I just hope Madan Lal’s children read this and get in touch,” his post read.
 
 He put up the post on Raabta, a   community of Kashmiri Pandits and Muslims that is helping reunite those separated by migration and years of violence in the Valley. The word raabta means connection in Urdu.
 
 Five days later, a member tagged a certain Arun Koul in reply to Samir’s post. And it turned out to be Samir’s long-lost neighbour Bunty. “After 28 years I spoke to him. I didn’t even know his real name,” says an overwhelmed Samir. “It was a very emotional moment for me,” admits Arun, who now lives in Chandigarh and works at a pharma company. Arun and Sameer’s fathers were business partners. “Our families were close. I used to take tuition from Bunty’s sister and his mother made the best kheer in town,” recalls Samir. At the peak of the separatist movement, the Kouls left Sopore for good in January 1990.
 
 Jaibeer Ahmad, a Gurgaon-based advertising professional who set up Raabta in February this year, says he was fed up with the negative dialogue that dominated social interactions between Kashmiri Pandits and Muslims on Facebook. Any post about Kashmir evokes strong and extreme reactions from both sides. “I wanted to change this narrative into something positive,” says Jaibeer who hails from  . His family still lives there and he visits them every few months. 
 
 Raabta facilitated another heartwarming reunion between friends Ashima Koul and Abbas Hamid. Back in the 1980s, the two were neighbours in   and as kids often do, they used to spend evenings and holidays playing together. “We used to be fierce contenders for the first position at St Joseph’s school... I’d really want to connect with him,” read her post. The two, however, lost touch after her family left Baramulla in early 1990s.
 
  “Over the years I often thought of him and wondered where he was. We used to play badminton, have story-telling sessions and even grow vegetables in the backyard. A few years ago, I visited our old colony in Baramulla to find out if the Hamids still lived there. But all the old-timers had moved and the current residents knew nothing of them. ,” says Ashima who lives in Jammu. 
 
 Members of Raabta helped Ashima find Abbas’s phone number. And as part of a collaboration between Raabta and Radio Mirchi-Jammu, Ashima’s first call to Abbas in three decades was placed and played live in a recording studio. Abbas, who works as a lawyer in Anantnag, immediately recognised Ashima and the two exchanged notes on each other’s lives. The call ended with Abbas inviting Ashima to his place.
 
 There are many more searching for their own happy endings. For example, Tariq Ismail Bhat is seeking contact with his childhood friend and classmate Kuldeep Pandita. Someone is looking for a teacher, another for an old colleague.
 
 But the wedge between Pandits and Muslims is so deep that many members scoff at initiatives like Raabta, dismissing them as feeble attempts at “normalcy”. Arun says he understands this bitterness. “But efforts like Raabta will help us come closer and ensure that this bitterness is not passed down to the next generation,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
