Nagpur: In the first such move in the state, 13,532   were done in city survey records automatically after execution of sale deeds in the city in last 15 months. The mutations have been done without demanding applications from the new property owners.

 One of collector Sachin Kurve’s innovative initiatives, the move was implemented by the district administration from January 16, 2017. Data released by the district administration shows 27,273 sale deeds were executed between January 16, 2017, and April 11, 2018, in the city. Of these, 3,396 were done at city survey office-I, 13,391 with city survey office-II, and 10,458 with city survey office-III.
 
 The offices of the sub-registrars sent the data of sale deeds to the city survey office once every three days in these 15 months. Accordingly, the city survey offices issued notices and got the mutations done in 13,532 cases, marking overall success rate of 49.62%. Highest percentage of mutations at 67.86% were done at city survey office-III, followed by 47.52% at city survey office-I, and 35.86% at city survey office-II.
 
 Earlier, the system required an application by the new property owner to the city survey offices for effecting mutation, along with copy of sale deed. The city survey offices used to force citizens to run pillar to post for years to get the mutations done. Citizens also used to fall prey to touts to get their mutations.
 
 Kurve, in association with superintendent of land records Suryakant More, introduced the new system as per provisions in section 154 of the Maharashtra Land Revenue Act 1966.
 
 Kurve said figure of automatic mutations might be over 60%. “I made it mandatory for city survey offices to send shortcomings and other hurdles in effecting mutations to the owners of the properties through Speed Post and SMS. Some mutations were also done after getting required documents or clarifications. The percentage is less in city survey-I as it covers traditional area of mouza Nagpur, where more verification is needed. Similarly, percentage at city survey office-II is also less as it covers all Gunthewari layouts, where there are various types of disputes. Overall, the new system has worked well, and brought huge relief to citizens,” he said.
 
 East Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde said Kurve’s initiative for mutations was a role model for the entire state. “Kurve started city survey counters at SETU, and ended the mess existing for decades at city survey offices. This was followed by the mutation initiative, where people do not require to face touts and harassment by city survey offices,” he said.
 
 Khopde added Kurve was the most successful collector of the district. “Citizens, especially students, used to face serious problems in obtaining various certificates at SETU. Kurve introduced a system where students get their certificates at homes through Speed Post,” he said.
 
 
