KOLKATA: Politics seeped into the city’s annual tryst with books, with CM Mamata Banerjee using the book fair inauguration on Tuesday to appeal to book sellers and publishers to guard against attempts to “distort history and science”.

 Banerjee’s call to book sellers — “to stand as sentinels guarding books when efforts are made to distort history and science” — comes close on the heels of controversies erupting over accepted versions of history (the anti-Padmaavat protests) and science (junior Union human resource development minister Satyapal Singh’s doubting Darwin’s theory).
 
 The CM last month had warned historians about similar dangers at the Indian History Congress and said they should fight back efforts to distort history. “Negative influences” were working overtime to distort — or even re-write — history, she had said without naming the BJP. On Tuesday, too, she did not mention the BJP by name.
 
 Veteran actor   and French ambassador to India Alexandre   were on the dais when Banerjee’s comments came at the inauguration of the 42nd Kolkata International Book Fair. France is the theme country this year, with the fair marking the end of the two-month Bonjour India fest that had been touring the country to mark the 70th year of Indo-French friendship and cultural ties. Ziegler conferred the Legion d’honneur on the Tollywood legend at a ceremony elsewhere in the evening.
 
 The 42nd Kolkata International Book Fair is being held at the Central Park of Salt Lake since the earlier venue, Milan Mela, is being renovated for a Pragati Maidan like feel. Guild secretary, Tridib Chatterjee summed up how initially the problem of space looked insurmountable but finally the state urban development department was able to clear up an additional seven acres of space from encroachers to make nearly 13 acres available for the fair.
 
 Both Soumitro Chatterjee and Ziegler spoke about the similarities between   and France when it came to literature, paintings, music and cultural activities.
 
 The CM however emerged as the star of the evening when 9 books written by her were released at the book fair inauguration, making the total count of her books 79. This time there were not only Bengali books but translations of her work in Hindi, Olchiki, Urdu and English that were released. Her rhetotric of anger came back as a refrain in her book titled Asahishnuta, (Intolerance), that was published by Dey’s Publishing.
 
 This is perhaps the first time that the CM released books written by three senior IPS officers at the book fair grounds, even before the fair was inaugurated. While Goenda Peath Lalbazar is a collection of 12 sensational cases solved by the detective department, compiled by Supratim Sarkar, Humayun Kabir’s, Final Gazi is a story of Hindu-Muslim relationship in the villages of Bengal and Murlidhar Sharma has published a book of Urdu poems. The fair will be on from noon to 8 pm everyday till February 11.
 
