KOCHI: The   on Wednesday stayed a single bench order for a   into the murder of Youth Congress leader S P  , allegedly by a gang employed by CPM leaders.

 A stay was issued on the single bench’s order of March 7 by a division bench led by Chief Justice   after considering an appeal filed by the state government. The single bench had issued the order on a petition filed by Shuhabi’s parents on the 24th day of the murder, which occurred at   near Mattannoor in   on February 12.
 
 During the admission hearing on the government’s appeal on Wednesday, advocate T  , who represents Shuhaib’s parents, argued that a division bench of the high court cannot consider an appeal over the order passed by a single bench in a criminal matter. The area where the murder occurred falls under the erstwhile Malabar district of Madras Presidency. As Letter Patent (Madras) is applicable in such cases, and not the Kerala High Court Act, an appeal over an order issued by a single bench that was exercising criminal jurisdiction cannot be considered by the high court, the counsel argued.
 
 The counsel also questioned the need for the state government preferring an appeal by asking why the government is afraid of a CBI probe. The counsel alleged that police are busy destroying evidence ever since the single bench ordered a CBI probe.
 
 Along with ordering a stay on the single bench’s order, the court asked the government to inform its views on the argument that the high court does not have the jurisdiction to consider an appeal over the order for CBI probe. The court has scheduled a hearing on March 23.
 
 Through the appeal, the government has alleged that the single bench issued the order without providing an opportunity to it to file a counter affidavit and without perusing the case diary. The court also did not consider the fact that an efficient and fair investigation is being conducted, government had argued in the appeal filed through senior government pleader Suman Chakravarthy.
 
 
