AHMEDABAD: Even as a court here declared Nalin Kotadiya, the ex-BJP MLA from Dhari in Amreli, an absconder in the   case, CID investigators knocked at the doors of  , who reportedly worked as an administrator for a Bitcoin   company in Surat.

 
 CID sources said while they are questioning Piyush Savaliya, an employee of the same Bitcoin investment company, they are looking for Mavani to get details about his alleged kidnapping in Surat on February 1, 2018, where 1,850 Bitcoins worth Rs 45 crore were extorted from him by three persons who posed as I-T officials.
 
 According to CID sources, the Surat kidnapping happened ten days before the kidnapping of Shailesh Bhatt, which was plotted by none other than his business partner Kirit Paladiya, to enable the conspirators to extract 176 Bitcoins from Bhatt.
 
 CID investigators said they need to get to the root of the enitre matter, which could possibly blow the lid off a Rs 1,300 crore Bitcoin scam. “We need to know the source of the 176 Bitcoins deposited in the e-wallet of Shailesh Bhatt. These Bitcoins were later taken away from Bhatt by his business partner Kirit Paladiya and other the accused — including Amreli SP Jagdish Patel, Amreli LCB inspector Anant Patel and advocate Ketan Patel — at the time of the kidnapping,” added an investigator.
 
 Senior CID officials said that a few months after demonetization of Rs 1,000 and Rs 500 notes was announced in November 2016, a lot of people, most of them from Surat, put money in a Bitcoin investment company, which had promised lucrative returns.
 
 “Later, when the value of one Bitcoin crashed to $5 from highs of $450, the company administrators allegedly fled the country. We suspect   was an administrator of the company and was kidnapped so that Bitcoins could be extracted from him. On Thursday, police went to his house in Surat,” said a senior CID crime official.
 
 According to CID officials, Mavani and his wife, who is a software engineer, were not at the house. Mavani’s parents said they have no knowledge of where they are. “We have come to learn that Mavani and his wife flew from Mumbai airport to Singapore on Februrary 15. That is the last know location of Mavani that we have. We have also gathered his travel documents,” said a CID official.
 
