MUMBAI: A police   at a   building resulted in the death of two   aged 30 and 50 on Tuesday night. It is not clear whether the two women jumped or fell to their death from the third floor of the   when the   team began combing it. The building is located 50 metres from D B Marg police station. 

 An accidental death case has been registered and the cops have begun a probe. The deceased were originally from West Bengal.
 
 “Residents of this area had carried out a candle march last month to protest against prostitution. Police had immediately shut down places which allegedly ran prostitution rackets. Since then, police teams have been visiting various premises to find out if they have reopened. Tuesday night’s raid was part of the routine check. Two contables entered Om Niwas building to find three women and four men there. After making inquiries, the team returned to the police station,” said a police officer. 
 
 No woman constable was part of the team though. 
 
 “Around 20 minutes after the police team returned from the building, a woman ran inside the police station and said that she had seen two injured women in the house galli—a narrow wedge between two buildings used as a passage for drainage—behind Om Niwas. A police team arrived and rushed the two women to J J Hospital where the older woman was declared brought dead,” said the officer. The other woman died during treatment between 1am and 2am. They had moved into the building three months back. 
 
 “Generally commercial sex workers flee or try to hide during police raids. They are also known to create cavities to hide. No such cavity was found in the rooms occupied by these two women. Sex workers also flee from house gallis which have narrow stairs or they simply climb down using pipes,” added an officer.
 
 The officer said the department will henceforth be careful during raids to avoid such tragedies. “We are investigating what exactly transpired last night since no one witnessed the women fall or jump off the building.” 
 
 The family of the older woman lives in  . The younger woman has relatives in  . The bodies were handed over to them after the post-mortem. The older woman’s body will be flown to West Bengal for her last rites.
 
 
