BHUBANESWAR/JHARSUGUDA: The   on Tuesday recorded 44.4° Celsius, the highest in the state. This is also the   recorded so far this  . At least 12 more places in the state saw the   above 40°C. 

 The temperature rise has forced people to stay indoors and the roads wore a deserted look in Jharsuguda and other western Odisha towns. "The rise in temperature is making our life difficult. Whenever I go out, I cover my face with a wet towel. The heat is so intense that it is becoming unbearable from 10 am itself. Without a cooler, I can't even sit in my shop," said Sanjay Agarwal, a shop owner at Jhanda Chowk.
 
 However, there's some reason to cheer with the India Meteorological Department (IMD)'s Bhubaneswar office predicting that the day temperature could fall a bit from Wednesday. "There are chances of rain triggered by Nor'wester conditions in several parts of south and north Odisha on Wednesday. From May 14, the maximum temperature across the state will drop and remain within 40°C," said Sarat Chandra Sahoo, director of IMD's regional office in Bhubaneswar.
 
 Thunder squall accompanied by hailstorm and strong winds reaching 50-60 kmph could occur in one or two places over coastal Odisha and the districts of Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar, Jajpur, Gajapati, Rayagada and Kandhamal. But the heatwave-like condition is likely to prevail over interior Odisha, said the latest bulletin of IMD.
 
 The heat has taken a toll on auto drivers and roadside vendors as customers have virtually disappeared during the day. "It was a very hot day and I could hardly find any passenger," said Laxman Patra, an auto driver in Badmal.
 
 The sale of cold beverages such as lemon water, lassi, watermelon juice and coconut water has gone up over the past few days. The Jharsuguda district headquarters hospital has made arrangements for treating heatstroke and other heat-related ailments. Chief district medical officer M R Samantray said a two-bed air-conditioned cabin had been kept ready at the district headquarters hospital to treat patients suffering from sunstroke and related ailments.
 
 In Hirakud, the temperature was 44.1°C, while it was 43.6°C in Sambalpur, 43.5°C degree in Balangir, 43.1°C in Talcher and 42°C in Bhawanipatna.
 
 
