AURANGABAD/PATNA: In a major crackdown against anti-social elements in trouble-torn   town, the district administration has arrested 122 people in connection with the   in   on Sunday and Monday.

 “They have been forwarded to jail,” DM Rahul Ranjan Mahiwal told TOI on Tuesday, adding no fresh incident of violence took place since Monday night. “The situation is well under control now,” he said and added internet services have been snapped in the district since Monday to prevent rumour-mongering.
 
 The DM also clarified that curfew was not imposed in the town on Monday, as reported in a section of the media. “We only promulgated prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC,” he said. 
 
 According to the DM, three FIRs have been lodged in connection with the violence. “More than 500 people have been made accused and are being arrested with the help of CCTV footage and video recordings,” he said.
 
 DG (BMP) Gupteshwar Pandey and ADG (law and order) Alok Raj as well as Magadh divisional commissioner Jitendra Srivastava and Magadh police range DIG Vinay Kumar are camping at Aurangabad where three additional companies of CRPF were also deployed around Monday midnight.
 
 Congress seeks judicial probe into clashes:
 
  Congress acting president Kaukab Quadri on Tuesday demanded judicial inquiry into the communal clashes in Aurangabad town and attributed the rise in communal violence cases in the state to the growing dominance and frequent interference of the BJP in the JD(U)-led coalition government in Bihar.
 
 Quadri submitted a memorandum at Raj Bhavan in the name of governor Satya Pal Malik seeking judicial inquiry into the Aurangabad clashes. Quadri said he also spoke to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar over the phone on Monday evening and urged him to take effective steps to thwart communal forces. “Nitish ji assured me that he is personally reviewing the Aurangabad case,” he said.
 
 Quadri alleged that it was pre-planned and executed by the youths who had been invited from the BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh. Himself a native of Aurangabad district, Quadri said the town had no history of any major communal violence. “I got the inkling of their (BJP) nefarious design almost a month ago during the campaigning for Bhabhua assembly byelection. I had seen several SUVs having UP registration numbers on the NH-2 which crosses through Aurangabad town. They have used Aurangabad as a testing lab and may spread communal hatred to other towns if the state government fails to crush such forces,” Quadri told TOI.
 
 A delegation of senior state Congress leaders led by Quadri, former minister Madan Mohan Jha and Bihar Pradesh Mahila Congress chief Amita Bhushan, submitted a memorandum to the governor’s principal secretary, Brijesh Mehrotra (as the governor was not available), seeking judicial probe into the clashes and immediate deployment of adequate security forces in the minority dominated areas in Aurangabad.
 
 
