Be it on court or off it,   stands out from the rest. And that’s for two reasons — his towering height of 7-foot-2 inches and him being the first Indian-born player drafted into  . And here, at the 68th Senior  , which is being held in Chennai, it’s no different. He is much in the limelight — and the moment he’s off the court, there’s always a bunch of fans waiting to take selfies with him. But the   star has no qualms about it, and he says, “It’s really cool. A lot of people come to take pictures with me. I find it quite okay. They love me and that’s why they come to take pictures with me.” Does he find it okay when he’s stared at in public places for his height? “I don’t care who’s my fan and who’s not. In basketball, it’s good advantage for my team and they can use me for any position. Basket is only for tall guys,” he replies. 
He’s back in India after a two-year stint in the US. He didn’t get enough chances in competitive basketball while he played for Texas Legends, an affiliate of the Dallas Mavericks. Responding to that, he says, “It was a great opportunity for me to play in the US. But I feel that my game is going down, because I’m not getting enough playing time. That’s why I decided to come back to India and play for Punjab and also for the country. A lot of games are going on in India this year. I will also be playing in the United Basketball Alliance (UBA) and I am sure it will improve my game. So that I can prove myself to those in the NBA and get back to playing there. I am really looking forward to playing again in the NBA for Dallas Mavericks or any other team. Here, I am working on everything from shooting to speed and footwork.” 
 Ask him which actor he would like to see play him on screen if a movie is ever made on him, and he replies, “I don’t know. There’s already a documentary about me and I think that’s enough. It shows how hard I work and it inspires other youngsters also to follow in my footsteps. Even if someone wants to make a movie, I hope it creates the same impact as the documentary. Let them talk to me and figure out what exactly I am up to.” 
 While he dreams of going back and playing in NBA, he still raves about the growth of basketball in India. “The basketball culture in India has improved a lot in the last few years. A lot of NBA coaches and players are coming here. Now, we even have an NBA academy in India. In fact, I myself am quite excited about the basketball events that are coming up, including Commonwealth Games and Asian Games,” he signs off.
 
