LUCKNOW: Hours after holding a demonstration on Sunday, claiming that reservation benefits for Dalits were under threat, estranged   MP

  spoke the language of   chief   saying that all ‘Bahujans’ should come together before they are deprived of the benefits enshrined in the Constitution.
 
 She also lashed out at Yogi Adityanath government in UP for proposing quota within quota with an aim to create differences within Dalits and OBCs.
 
 CM Yogi had recently said on the floor of the   that his government may consider providing separate reservation for the ati-Dalits and Most Backward Community (MBCs).
 
 Speaking to TOI, Phule said that she supports Mayawati’s allegations that conspiracies were being hatched to do away with the constitutional rights of Dalits and OBCs.
 
 “Kabhi kaha ja raha hai ki samvidhan ki sameeksha hogi, kabhi kaha ja raha hai ki sanvidhan aisa badlenge ki Daliton ke liye kuchh nahi reh jayega...(It is being said that the Constitution would be reviewed. It is also being said that th Constitution will be changed in such a way that nothing will be left for Dalits,” said Phule, who started her political career with BSP and joined BJP just before 2014 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 Phule said that she was an MP only because of reservation benefits. “Koi bhi party daliton ko aarakshit seaton ke alawa koi aur seat nahi deti. Agar aarakshan khatam ho gaya to koi Dalit chunav bhi nahi lad payega (No political party fields Dalit candidates from unreserved seats. If reservation ends, then no Dalit would be able to contest election),” said Phule, MP from   reserved seat.
 
 Maintaining that she did not fear being thrown out of BJP because of her stance, Phule said that even   judges are speaking out against what they feel is wrong.
 
 “I got elected with the support of Dalits and other backward community. Now, if I do not raise my voice for them what is the point in being an MP,” she said, claiming that her statements were not driven by politics.
 
 Earlier in the day, while speaking at the ‘Aarakshan Bachao Maharally” at Kanshiram Smriti Upvan, Phule deplored instances of attack on Dalits and their icon BR Ambedkar. She was critical of the desecration of Ambedkar statues and demanded that cases of treason be lodged against those found guilty of vandalising them.
 
 She also demanded that a caste census be conducted. “This will help in ascertaining the actual condition of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes across the country,” she said.
 
