CHENNAI: The city corporation is less than two months away from putting to trial a card-based common payment system that would allow city residents to pay property, water taxes and electricity bills.

 
  resident   told TOI he had no clue about the e-card project. Having commanded big money investment, the e-card’s patronage prospect depends wholly on whether or not the civic body makes it a talking point among city residents like Sajeevan, who is part of the target audience. The corporation has so far played the silent card.
 
 
  
 
 While the civic body expects to launch the card sometime later this year, there are issues it needs to fix beforehand. For instance, Sajeevan, who is no stranger to digital transactions, had this query - “Why would I purchase a new card when my present debit/credit card could help me make the same payment?”
 
 “The possibilities are endless. Because it is an open loop card, it can be programmed to make payment at retail shopping outlets, grocery shops etc.,” said a senior official.
 
 The officer’s reply failed to answer Sajeevan’s query. Besides, the feature to make retail payments is only a proposed addition and would be absent when the card is launched.
 
 The chief executive officer of  , Raj Cherubal, explained that introductory discounts and rebate options would help sell the card. “For example, if a payment is made using the card, a small fee would be contributed towards rejuvenating the city’s water bodies,” said Cherubal.
 
 Sajeevan said an offer like a rebate on property tax payment is what that would tempt him to make the purchase. “It doesn’t seem like the card is meant for Chennai's lower economic sections anyway,” Sajeevan added.
 
 For Cherubal, the card could be the equivalent of London’s Oyster travel cards or Hong Kong’s Octopus cards. “MTC is interested. In the future, this card can be programmed to pay for MRTS, Metro Rail and MTC tickets too,” he said.
 
 But with   having already introduced a smart travel card, there are questions of duplication that the CSCL’s ecard must answer before it comes into being. For T Nagar resident,  , these scenarios represent a hassle.
 
 “It would be an inconvenience for me to visit an e-Seva centre to recharge a card and then pay my electricity bill. For that effort, I would walk to the EB office and pay bill the way I do now, using cash,” said Jayaraman.
 
 
