NOIDA: A health department team on Wednesday collected   samples from   school to   if contamination had caused over 150 students to fall ill last week, but   doubted if the exercise would yield anything as the   had been cleaned.

 Parents questioned why the food department team that had visited the school last Thursday had not collected water   when the tanks were yet to be cleaned and had just returned with some ajwain and edible oil. 
 
 Contaminated water is being seen as a major cause for the students falling ill as parents have claimed that even those who hadn’t taken food in the school canteen had complained of stomach ache and vomited after coming home. Step by Step, which opened this Monday after remaining closed for a few days, has put the number of students affected at 190. 
 
 On Wednesday, a team of two additional chief medical officers and an epidemiologist led by CMO Dr   inspected the school taps and collected water samples. Bhargava said the samples would be sent to a private laboratory for testing but agreed that the tanks had been cleaned recently.
 
 A senior official of the   said it would be difficult to know the source of bacteria, if any, from the water samples collected if the tanks had been cleaned of late. “It is technically not possible to know the source of possible contamination. It is just an eyewash,” the official, who is also a doctor, said.
 
 Parents said they expected the water test reports to yield little. “The tanks have already been cleaned. What is the point of collecting the water samples now? The other day, food department officials had taken samples of only edible oil and ajwain. Nothing much is going to come out of this,” said a parent whose child had to be admitted for a day.
 
 The parents stressed that water samples should have been collected on the first day itself. “The most plausible reason for our children falling ill is contaminated water. There are many students who complained of stomach ache despite not having breakfast or lunch,” another parent said.
 
 The health department has decided to issue an advisory to all the schools in the city asking them to pay immediate attention to the food that they serve to the students.
 
 Step by Step, which has mostly limited its communication to parents, told TOI in a statement: “The school has been open since Monday and back to a normal schedule. We continue to cooperate with the authorities on all matters.”
 
 
