PUNE: Pune has been attracting a large number of passengers from Dubai ever since two flights between Pune and Dubai were launched in 2015, revealed the data released by the Directorate General of   ( ).

 In fact, 74,468 passengers from Dubai landed in Pune in 2017, an increase of over 8,000 fliers when compared to 2016. At the same time, the number of passengers to Dubai from Pune rose by a mere 1,300 during the same period.
 
 
 Compared with 2015, travellers from Dubai to Pune surged by a massive 18,000-odd in 2017. A DGCA official told TOI the data pertains to revenue passengers, i.e. people who pay fares for scheduled flights.
 
 “This includes all passengers disembarking at or alighting from a particular destination — tourists, business travellers etc. It is not necessary that passengers who take the Dubai flight from Pune disembark at the   country for travel and stay. Many passengers proceed to travel to other countries from Dubai. Same is the case with travellers from Dubai to Pune,” the official said.
  
 
 Nikhil Thakurdas, owner, Odyssey Tours and Travels, told TOI that two direct flights from Pune to Dubai have given travellers an easy option of a short-haul holiday during a long weekend. “A typical holiday in Dubai comprises threefour nights stay, so it is an extremely popular getaway during long weekends. Also, the traveller rush from Dubai to Pune could be because of the fact that the city has become popular as a medical tourism destination for people living in the UAE,” said Thakurdas.
 
 He said that medical tourists usually come along with their family members to Pune and need cheaper stay options, which Pune has in plenty. “Other travellers from Dubai to Pune are NRIs, those visiting friends and relatives as well as tourists who land in Pune and go on to explore the world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora as well as pilgrimage sites in and around Pune like Shirdi,” said Thakurdas, adding that many travellers who take the Jet Airways direct flight from Pune to   ultimately drive down to Dubai for holiday.
 
 City-based aviation expert Dhairyashil Vandekar said that the number of flights on   sector has remained the same since 2015. The flights have been operating to their full capacity in the recent period.
 
