VIJAYAWADA:  , which shared the top slot along with   on the ease of doing business (EODB) index, has inched ahead of its neighbour on the EoDB dynamic scorecard on Wednesday.

 As per the scorecard displayed on the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) website on Wednesday, Andhra Pradesh scored 100%, sharing the numero uno slot with Haryana, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and West Bengal.
 
 Telangana, on the other hand, shared the third spot with   with a score of 99.46% each, while the second spot was occupied by Rajasthan and Jharkhand with 99.73% score each.
 
 However, these rankings may change. The dynamic scorecard was introduced in 2015 by the Centre jointly with the   to promote competitiveness among states and monitor their progress on various parameters that help draw investments.
 
 T fails to upload 6 reforms, slips in ease of doing biz
 
 Last year’s rankings were based on a 340-point business reform action plans and their implementation by the states. This year, the number of reform actions that needed to be taken by states has increased to 372.
 
 According to Andhra Pradesh industries department officials, this time around, Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion (DIPP) has introduced the concept of feedback survey from industries and under the sub-head ‘Reform Implementation’, industry too will be contributing to the final ranks as their feedback will be added to the current scores.
 
 “This may change the final rankings. Though Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion will take some more time to announce the final ratings, we are hopeful of retaining our top rank” an Andhra Pradesh industries department source said.
 
 Of the 372 reforms that were taken into account this year, Andhra Pradesh implemented all of them while the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion records show that Telangana implemented only 366.
 
 “In reality, both the Telugu states implemented all the reforms. However, in the case of Andhra Pradesh, three of the reforms were not uploaded to the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion website while in the case of Telangana, six reforms were not updated. As a result, Andhra Pradesh has been placed on top with five states and Telangana third,” said a source.
 
