GANDHINAGAR/AHMEDABAD: In a major   across Gujarat, the state assembly on Monday passed   Police (Amendment) Bill, 2018 exempting restaurants and   from obtaining and renewing police licence to start or run their units. 

 The  ,   at present provides for various functions of police officers of the state which include granting certificate of registration before any eating facility can be opened or run. Hotel owners also have to obtain several permissions like health licence, GST registration, fire safety and building-use permission under the act.
 
 The state government had received representations from hotel associations requesting it to do away with requirement of obtaining the certificate of registration and its renewal. "As it is the need of the hour to reduce gradually and objectively the number of licences/registrations etc for removing hardships to the business fraternity, it is considered expedient to do away with the requirement of obtaining certificate of registration under the Act.," said Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state for Home.
 
 
 
 
 As it is the need of the hour to reduce gradually and objectively the number of licences/registrations etc for removing hardships to the business fraternity and as a step in the said direction, it is considered expedient to do away with the requirement of obtaining certificate of registration under the Act.
 
 It is considered necessary to amend sections 2, 33 and 131A of the Act to achieve the aforesaid purpose,” said Pradipsinh Jadeja, minister of state for Home in his statement of objects and reasons.
 
 “Two years ago, Maharashtra had abolished such a law. We had made strong representations to the state government seeking exemptions from procuring police licenses,” said Shailesh Patwari, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). “It will benefit over 60,000 eateries and restaurants in Gujarat.”
 
 “This was much needed for the industry in Gujarat. Several new restaurants and start-up concepts will now take shape and come up, adding to the state’s economy,” said Pradeep Chona, chairman and managing director, Havmor Restaurant.
 
 Restaurateurs said this will make setting up and running restaurants much easier apart from curtailing corruption. “This will promote ease of doing business for the industry,” said Narendra Somani, president, Federation of Hotels and Restaurants Association of Gujarat.
 
 Some of restaurateurs in the state breathed a sigh of relief as they alleged that obtaining licenses and renewing them has been a cumbersome and time consuming process.
 
 It may be noted that incidents of police atrocities on staff at restaurants and eateries were recently reported. After the governor’s approval to the amendement, the government will form and notify the necessary rules to finally do away with the police certification process for restaurants and eateries.
 
 
 
