NEW DELHI: Like Elon Musk’s Space X, Indian Space Research Organisation ( ) has the capability and technology to “configure a launch vehicle that has the lifting capability of over 50-60 tonnes”. 

 Isro chairman   told TOI, “A super heavylift vehicle is on the drawing board as part of our R&D. We are doing a lot of preliminary research. However, our foremost priority is to increase the carrying capability of GSLV MK III from 4 tonnes to 6 tonnes. Once that is achieved, we will work on enhancing the propulsion capability by working on different combinations of solid, liquid, semicryogenic and cryogenic engines. With these combinations of engines and different modes of strap-ons, we can configure a launch vehicle that has the lifting capability of over 50-60 tonnes.” 
 
 Space X’s Falcon Heavy, the world’s most powerful rocket that was launched from the   on February 7, has lifting capability of 63 tonnes, which is equivalent to a 737 airliner fully loaded with crew, passengers, luggage and fuel. Propelled by 27 rocket engines and three boosters, the rocket carried a dummy payload and Elon Musk’s red cherry Tesla Roadster sports car to  . It packed more than 5 million pounds of thrust at the launch. 
 
 On the development of a mini launcher that can be assembled in three days, about which TOI first reported, the Isro chief said, “This small launch vehicle is being developed to fulfil Isro’s requirements of launching small satellites (with weight not more than 500 kg) at short notice. Once we develop this technology after some tests, we will transfer this to the private Indian industry so that they can launch small vehicles.”
 
 Dr Sivan is popularly known as ‘Rocket Man’ for his contribution to the development of cryogenic engines and launch vehicles PSLV and GSLV. Currently, India holds less than 1% of share of the global launch services market, which is estimated to be approximately Rs 40,000 crore. 
 
 Till date, Isro has launched 237 foreign satellites of 28 different countries. On February 15 last year, Isro made history when it launched 104 satellites, including 101 satellites of foreign countries, in a single mission. On the other hand, US space company  , with 45% share, is now the biggest player in the commercial launch market.
