SHIMLA: The state home department procured   cameras in 2013 with floating an open tender,   has pointed out. This resulted into only 27 cameras being bought at a cost of Rs 62.74 lakh, against the plan of 282 CCTV cameras and three speed cameras to be procured and installed for Rs 1 crore.

 CAG report tabled in the state assembly on Thursday pointed out that improper planning, non-finalization of rates properly and absence of centralized and continuous monitoring defeated the objective of detection of unwarranted activities through the CCTV cameras. It also resulted in irregular expenditure of Rs 62.74 lakh, blocking of Rs 44.91 lakh for more than three years and interest loss of Rs 10.18 lakh to the state exchequer.
 
 “The department had purchased the cameras with monitor at local installation points instead of centralized monitoring through broadband facilities and the cameras were not functioning properly as the visibility was poor at night hours and in low light and foggy weather conditions. Thus, the objective of surveillance and real time monitoring of unwarranted activities remained unachieved,” report added.
 
  DGP in May 2013 had mooted a proposal for the procurement and installation of 282 CCTV cameras and three speed cameras at an estimated expenditure of Rs 1.05 crore at public places to check unwarranted activities.
 
 In August 2013, state government accorded sanction of Rs 1 crore for the same with the condition that the expenditure be incurred after obtaining approval of information and technology (IT) department. In September 2013, the IT department advised the DGP to procure and install the CCTV cameras through the Himachal Pradesh State Electronics Development Corporation Limited (HPSEDCL) by floating open tenders.
 
 Scrutiny of records of the home department in November 2016 revealed that DGP had sent the proposal in May 2013 to the state government without proper estimates. In May 2014, HPSEDCL prepared the estimates and technical specifications of the CCTV cameras based on the rates received from the prospective bidders earlier in June 2013, for deciding techno-commercial aspect of the equipment.
 
 The department placed supply order in July 2014, to HPSEDCL for the procurement and installation of 27 cameras at a cost of Rs 62.74 lakh and the approved firm installed the cameras between March 2015 and April 2017.
 
 Out of Rs 1 crore withdrawn in March 2014, Rs 44.91 lakh was lying unutilized in the shape of banker cheque in the name of HPSEDCL up to November 2016, and in fixed deposit thereafter which also resulted in interest loss of Rs 10.18 lakh to the state exchequer.
 
 The department however stated in May 2017 that efforts were made to purchase and install the cameras after proper survey. The cameras were functioning properly and night vision is not clear due to non-availability of light near the cameras.
 
 “The cameras did not meet the requirement of centralized and continuous monitoring of the unwarranted activities and the department had not ensured the viability of functioning of the cameras in all conditions,” report pointed out.
 
 
