BHOPAL: A gang of kidnappers hijacked a  , stripped the cops and went dressed in khaki to kidnap a girl from her home in a remote village in Madhya Pradesh’s Panna district early on Sunday morning.

  Iqbal Riyaz confirmed to TOI that three cops were tied up and the gang was in possession of a Dial 100 vehicle for about 45 minutes. A search operation is on to nab the culprits, he said.
 
 According to Riyaz, Dial 100 got a call around 11.30pm on Saturday. ASI Subhash Dube, head constable   and driver   responded and drove to the outskirts of Bamori village where they found a man lying face down on the ground.
 
 
 
 
 Finding a man lying on the ground, three cops approached him, but were taken aback when he rolled over and pointed a pistol at them. His aides joined him, stripped the three policemen and tied them up.
 
 After locking up the policemen in a car, the goons donned khaki and drove off towards the house of the 20-year-old girl, in the same village. The girl’s father, a farmer, told police that he was hesitant to open the door at midnight. “I opened the door only when I saw a police van parked outside,” he said. The ‘cops’ said they needed to take her to the police station to record her statement and to allay the father’s suspicions, asked him to come along.
 
 “Although I suspected them, I went along. But they threw me out of the vehicle after some distance,” he said. The gang went back to the spot where they had left the cops tied up, returned the Dial 100 car keys and uniforms and sped off with the girl. The cops returned to   police station and narrated the story to their superiors. “We have some clues and have formed teams to track down the gang,” Panna SP Iqbal Riyaz said.
 
 Though one of the criminals has been identified as a murder accused, police didn’t disclose the name as it may affect the investigation. The motive for the kidnapping is not clear yet. No one knew about the kidnapping till noon, when a local reporter at Amanganj tehsil, about 60km from the district headquarters, broke the story.
 
 
