NAGPUR: The residents of   at Somalwada have been facing a problem of   water entering wells and houses for the last 15 days. This happened after sewage trunk line was ruptured during works by Maharashtra   Corporation Limited (Mahametro). Despite the serious situation, Mahametro has reportedly continued construction of Metro Rail station, but not repaired the sewage line.

 TOI had, on February 11, highlighted the problems being faced by Ujjwal Nagar residents and lack of action against Mahametro by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Only after TOI’s report had the NMC Laxmi Nagar Zone slapped a notice and penalty of Rs50,000 on Mahametro for damaging the sewage water trunk line. Since then, NMC has been waiting for Mahametro to repair the line.
 
 A resident, Vijay Jamgad, told TOI NMC and Mahametro have started to pass the buck to each other and left residents to suffer. “Sewage water is regularly gushing into our houses since February 6. Only after complaints, staffers of Mahametro come and pump out sewage water from the houses. But nothing is being done to repair the line and stop flow of sewage into houses. Sewage water has entered all wells in the locality. No one from the two agencies is looking to solve this problem,” he said.
 
 Another resident, Sanjay  , said sewage water is flowing everywhere in the residential area and accumulating in the pits dug for Metro Rail station, resulting in it becoming a health hazard. “Entire area is filled with foul smell. Mosquito menace is adding to the problems. Sewage water is even entering the sumps made for drinking water,” he said.
 
 Jamgade and Sakharkar said proper coordination between NMC and Mahametro officials can resolve the issue. “Mahametro also damaged drinking water pipeline. Quantum of water gushing into houses and wells increases when private operator   (OCW) starts water supply. Health department of NMC is also passing the buck to public works department. OCW is neglecting the issue right from the first day. All these departments should come together and repair the service lines,” they said.
 
 Mahametro officials said repair works will commence from Thursday. “Plan has been chalked out with OCW. First drinking water pipeline will be repaired from Thursday. Then the work on sewage line will be taken up. All necessary items for repair works have been taken to the site. Mahametro is taking all efforts to solve the problems,” he said.
 
 Sonegaon police are also refusing to take action against Mahametro despite a complaint lodged by residents on February 9.
 
 
