Nagpur: The doublespeak of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), the statutory body monitoring tiger reserves, has been exposed on machan (waterhole) census being conducted in Maharashtra on April 30, the ‘Buddha Pournima’ day.

 Instead of asking the field directors of tiger reserves to withdraw the exercise, the NTCA has asked to select candidates judiciously.
 
 Based on bad experience about participating in   and some volunteers indulging in drinking atop machans in the past, city-based RTI activist Avinash Prabhune on April 18, had lodged a complaint with NTCA demanding withdrawal of waterhole estimation in Vidarbha.
 
 Prabhune pointed out that after 2007, the NTCA itself withdrew the pugmark methodology of counting tigers and waterhole estimation to count herbivores then why it is mum on state forest department still holding the exercise?
 
 The last official machan census was conducted on May 2, 2007. Since then, it was being conducted on the same day but volunteers were not allowed to take part. The exercise was restarted in 2011. “It is not conducted in other tiger reserves in the country. Why Maharashtra is exception?” asks Prabhune.
 
 Based on the RTI activist’s complaint, the NTCA on April 20, has directed the field directors of tiger reserves here, to ensure ‘judicious selection of participants for machan census so that no untoward incident happens in reserves.’
 
 “The NTCA reply virtually supports the waterhole estimation by asking the officials to be judicious while selecting candidates,” says Prabhune.
 
 “When the entire process has been made online, how can the officials be judicious on selecting right candidates. The machan census, rechristened as ‘nisarga anubhav’, is available for money now,” said Prabhune.
 
 While Rs1,700 per candidate is being charged in parks under Pench & Bor tiger reserves, it is Rs1,200 for Umred-Karhandha, Tipeshwar and Painganga wildlife sanctuaries; Rs1,500 for sanctuaries under Melghat and Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR).
 
 “The exercise is in complete violation of Supreme Court guidelines on regulating tourism in tiger reserves. Though NTCA has been able to restrict number of vehicles in Tadoba, it has issued no fresh protocol on machan census, which has no scientific basis. The tiger conservation plan (TCP) of reserves too doesn’t have any mention about the machan census,” said Prabhune.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said there are clandestine moves to hold the exercise in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) with the help of ‘locals’ only. “Officials are confused about whom to call locals,” said sources. However, Chandrapur CCF Vijay Shelke, who is acting field director, denied any such plan.
 
 
