JAIPUR: A dam, which began supplying drinking water on December 2017, burst on Saturday with gushing waters washing away the hopes of parched   district in the state. 

 The long-awaited Rs 588-crore drinking water project in the district suffered a major setback as the dam, constructed at the  , burst during the trial run at 1.30pm, flooding nearby areas.
 
 The project was planned to ensure drinking water supply to 1,473 villages. Amid charges of corruption and questions over the construction quality, the state government has set up a high-level committee to investigate the incident.
 
 "We have constituted a committee, headed by chief engineer. Those found guilty will be punished," said PHED minister Surendra Goyal.
 
 He said the PHED principal secretary has been asked to go to Jhunjhunu to take stock of the situation. "We will not let shortage of water cause problems to residents of the area," said Goyal.
 
 The incident created chaos at Malsisar village in Jhunjhunu district as residents rushed to safer places after the dam water inundated the area.
 
 District administration and PHED department officials also found it difficult to reach the spot as the route between Malsisar and Alsisar was cut off due to flood waters.
 
 "Water entered houses and other buildings in the area. But people managed to move to safer areas before that happened. No casualty has been reported," said Jhunjhunu district collector Dinesh Kumar Yadav.
 
 He said that when the storage tank (dam) burst, it had 4,400 million litres of water.
 
 According to PHED officials, the dam has a capacity of storing 4,700 million litres. "Almost half of the water in the dam has been lost. We are trying to find out what caused the incident," said a PHED official. District administration and disaster management officials rushed to affected areas to rescue those stuck. Three workers, who were at the chlorination centre, were later rescued. Several government buildings have also been inundated in water.
 
 Disaster management and relief department OSD Bijender Singh said, "NDRF and SDRF teams have been sent to Jhunjhunu for rescue work. There are more than 120 personnel, including local workers, involved in the effort."
 
 Rescue teams used water pumps to pump water from the area. Flood waters have also affected traffic movement.
 
 
 
 
 Following the dam burst in Jhunjhunu district, Congress alleged that it was corruption which led to the accident as authorities had compromised with the quality of construction material. Pradesh Congress Committee president Sachin Pilot said, “It is quite clear that the construction material has been compromised and authorities have been negligent. It is a clear case of corruption.” Pilot demanded strict action against officials involved in it. He also demanded compensation for those who suffered losses in the accident.
 
