 has great potential in GI tagging agricultural and manufactured products. Till date, it has received GI tags for 24 of its products from the geographical indications registry (GI registry) in Chennai.

 Geographical indication (GI) is an   right (IPR), just like patents and copyrights, which is described in Trade-Related Intellectual Property Right chapter of GATT/ WTO. Clauses dealing with GI is found in Articles 22, 23, 24 of Section 3 of the chapter that deals with protection of products that are unique to certain geographical locations.Following WTO agreements, India also formulated new Acts/regulations or formulated new ones to protect IPRs and a GI registry was set up in Chennai to register unique products in the country. “Kerala is considered to be a treasure trove of unique GIs, which we have to register now,” said professor CR Elsy (plant breeding & genetics), who is   also the convener of Kerala Agricultural University’s (KAU) IPR cell. Gandhakasala Her team, responsible for the suc- rice cessful GI tagging of eight products in 2010 Kerala, is now involved in GI tagging of Marayoor jaggery, Attapadi red gram and Attapadi dolichos.The immediate benefit of GI tagging is defending property rights of local products.
 
 
  
 
 “Then, there is the second aspect, which is the monetary benefit it could bring to the local Wayanad community. Chengalikodan nendran banana, which re- Jeerakasala ceived the tag in 2014, tradition- rice ally commanded a premium of 2010 Rs 10/kg in the local market. Last Onam, farmers who cultivated that   variety, informed me that the pre- dhoties mium had grown to Rs 30/kg. They attributed it to GI tagging. mundu As a bunch weighs 25kg, this 2012 gives a substantial monetary benefit to farmers,” she said.
 
 Protecting property rights of local products received attention Pokkali rice of the common man after a US com- 2008 pany Rice Tec’s attempt to patent basmati rice in the 90s. Since then, Indian organizations – both governmental and non-governmental – kept a watch to stop similar attempts. Tea Board of India, the nodal agency for marketing Indian tea in domestic and international markets, had been watching overseas markets for infringements on the use of ‘Darjeeling’ tag for teas. The board ensured the successful rejection of an attempt by an American firm, Republic of Tea Inc that Palakkadan tried to register ‘Darjeeling Nouveau’ trademark in the US in 2006. Similarly, the board Matta rice quashed a French company Delta Lingerie’s 2007 move to register the trademark ‘Darjeeling’ in Taiwan.
 
 However, the whole process of application leading to the GI tagging is a time consuming and exhausting experience quite often, which the farmers alone will not be able to bear. “For Navara rice, the whole documentation process and application took three years,” said P Narayanan Unni, president of Navara Rice Farmers’ Society that won the tag for the Navara variety. It was the first such Navara agricultural tag issued to an initiative undertaken by farmers. “Darjeeling tea was the first agri product, but the application process was managed by the board, a governmental organization,” he said.
 
