Chennai: Thesedays, M Shafiq is always on the look out for offers on food delivery apps. “All apps are giving fabulous offers thesedays so why not make use,” he says.  Regulars like him and many others are tapping their apps to grab the best bet that online foodtech startups like Swiggy, Foodpanda, Freshmenu and Uber Eats are offering.  Given that most matches are scheduled during the evenings, many people spend their time watching matches and cheering their favourite teams, giving an avenue for the food delivery chains to cash in on.  While Swiggy and newer entrant Uber Eats are offering city-based match day discounts and offers, other startups are partnering with restaurants to cash in from the spurt in number of orders. Some of them see up to 25% growth in the number of orders compared to the non-IPL days. Foodpanda sees a 15% net order surge since the time IPL has kicked off. Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday are the days when there is an increase in orders the most. “The orders for lunch time have increased by 18% across all days of the week, 20% surge has been seen during evening snack time, and the dinner orders have spiked up by 25%,” said Anshul Khandelwal, head, marketing, Foodpanda. Freshmenu sees a 20-25% spike compared to normal days. “There was a surge in the first week since the season launched and now, in the last week, there is a surge until the finals. When groups get together for cheering their favourite team, they tend to order in and we see a surge in the number of orders for dinner menus,” said Rashmi Dagga, co-founder, Freshmenu. Besides discounts, foodtech startups have also lined up season-specific TVCs to increase eyeballs. Swiggy is now broacasting 20 second in-game ads on digital and across the brand's social media platforms. “We see week on week and month on month growth as a norm, irrespective of the occasion or event,” said Srivats TS- vice president, marketing, Swiggy.  “On days where there is an IPL match running, on top of the normal growth, there is an additional 5-7% growth due to IPL,” he added. Companies add that the cities with IPL teams such as Delhi, Mumbai, Bangalore, Hyderabad, Chennai, Jaipur, Kolkata and Chandigarh contribute to growth. Besides the metros, the cities that have seen a spike in the number of orders are Jaipur and Chandigarh with around 15% of an increase, Foodpanda says.