NEW DELHI: If you are carrying a costly bag or talking on an expensive cellphone on Delhi Metro, mostly likely you will be on the radar of   as soon as you enter the station. And it doesn’t matter at which station you are because they seem to be everywhere. A dossier prepared by police on criminals active on   shows how different gangs have mapped their areas and make sure that they don’t cross the boundaries.

 Currently, there are five main gangs active in metro trains and at stations. Two of them led by Mohammad Umar and Mohammad Farooq have been operating from Rajiv Chowk and Kashmere Gate for the past two years.
 
 Both the gangs operate in sets of three or four. Each member is assigned a specific task — while one spots the target, the other member distracts him either by engaging him in an argument or by hitting him hard in the ribs. A third person steals the wallet or phone and hands it to another accomplice who flees the spot.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 In this manner, even if the victim realises that something has been stolen from him and raises an alarm, the pickpocket can get away scot-free as there would be nothing on him to prove that he has committed the theft.
 
 While Umar, an expert pickpocket, and his   members operate inside trains, Farooq adopts a similar method at the stations.
 
 Police said that Delhi Metro has become an easy hunting ground due to its mobility and inter-state connectivity. Last year, cops had busted a gang that had come from Agra to commit thefts. The interchange stations are the most vulnerable due to the multiple exits and heavy footfall.
 
 The 13-member gang from Agra would target passengers at the interchange stations during peak hours on escalators or near the lifts. By the time the victim realised the theft, they would escape. After committing 6-7 thefts, they would return to Agra.
 
 There are also gangs comprising women members led by Imla and Saima. They operate in women’s coaches and the gang members use a child and breastfeeding as a cover to steal a target’s goods. 
 
 Saima, a resident of Kathputli Colony, told police that she started thefts in the metro after her husband lost his job. She used to rob railway passengers earlier, but was caught in 2016. She then decided to move to Delhi Metro.
 
 The gang members would usually board the train with a child and sit next to the victim. They would cover the head of the child with a chunni (stole), which would fall on the woman victim’s bag. They would then slowly remove the contents of the bag on the pretext of feeding the child.
 
 Investigators said that most of these gangs comprise petty criminals who could not make it among their peers in targeting victims on the roads. Moreover, criminals claim that they get to earn more in the metro since they can get off one train and board another if there are chances of them getting caught.
 
 “Amit Kumar, a thief who was arrested recently, revealed that he would target passengers boarding and de-boarding crowded trains at the interchange stations. By the time the victim realised that his wallet or phone was missing, Kumar would have travelled to another station,” said an officer.
 
 Recently, one Rahul Kumar from Bawana was arrested for theft. A gang of three men, they would cut open the pockets of victims and steal their wallets. There’s another gang that targets people by standing behind them on escalators.
 
 In 2017, a total of 12,925 FIRs related to thefts were registered. Out of these, 11,785 were e-FIRs. DCP (Metro) Pankaj Singh said that there has been 50% dip in the number of complaints since August after surveillance was intensified at the stations.
 
