After playing Saadat Hasan Manto’s wife in Nandita Das’s biopic on the renowned Pakistani playwright,   will be next seen in  , which is directed by  . Now, the film, which was shot entirely in Kashmir, is returning in the next few months to the Valley for its first screening. It sees the actress in the role of a mother to seven-year-old Hamid, played by  , a Kashmiri local whose father goes missing in the film.

  
  
  “The story idea came from a line from a Kashmiri acquaintance: A seven-year-old Kashmiri boy, whose father has disappeared, dials 786 on the phone to speak with Allah. The idea fascinated me so much that I developed it into a screenplay. After several months of arduous auditioning, we found our Hamid. But two days before the shoot, the boy developed cold feet and walked out of the film. We were flabbergasted,” Aijaz told Mirror, adding that the team had to go back to audition tapes. “When we relooked at the top five contenders, Talha’s caramel eyes and angelic face caught everyone’s eye and he was asked to join immediately.”
 
  The team shot at Budderkote, a quaint village on the foothills of Gulmarg that they discovered after travelling through Kashmir and Manali. “Manali was Plan B, just in case we faced resistance in Kashmir but Badderkote embraced us. The villagers opened their homes to us. Fragrant cups of Kahwa and the delectable local bread Girda became our staple food,” Aijaz said.
 
  Meanwhile, Rasika reveals that she was initially sceptical about the film even though its innocence had appealed to her. “My primary fear was the fact that it is difficult to tell a story of a land and people who have been through so much. I felt like no matter how much I prepared, I would not be able to do justice to the part, which would be a disservice to Kashmir. But I’ve previously shot in Kashmir for Santosh Sivan’s   and it gave me, with all its beauty and sadness, more than I had expected. It’s like the place just opens itself up to you to let you tell its story,” the actress signed off.
 
 
