Trichy: The rain is not adequate. Sudden heat waves create challenging conditions for crops. Besides, poor harvest drive farmers into a debt trap. Considering these factors, many people see farming as a not very attractive occupation. Dispelling such myths, a woman farmer from a hamlet near   has emerged successful by adopting techniques advocated by agriculture department authorities.

 With more migration of men to urban areas, women are becoming cultivators, entrepreneurs and farm labourers. The Economic Survey 2018 calls it the ‘feminisation’ of agriculture. The government is now earmarking at least 30% of the budget allocation for women in all schemes, including agriculture, to ‘mainstream’ them.
 
 V  , 48, of Thirumangalam near Lalgudi, has been cultivating a 4.5-acre land for the past 25 years as her husband   was busy with their milk business.
 
 “Until I took over farming from my husband’s family members, cultivation was going on just because they had to do something. I adopted scientific farming practices and the yield began to multiply,” Saraswathi said,
 
 Her passion for farming has won her many laurels, including an award from the   (KVK) in   in Trichy district for executing the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) method for cultivating Co RH -3 variety rice. Using this, she was able to harvest 50 bags of paddy in an acre.
 
 Saraswathi says that apart from adapting such techniques, farmers should give more importance to water management.
 
 “Farmers who irrigate their land using filter point bore wells could get more yield that those who draw water from irrigation channels,” he said.
 
 “A wet and dry system should be adapted to get good result. Following the age-old method will not give us good yield. Besides, input costs are shooting up by the day. If farmers want to earn much more than what they spend, they should follow the instructions of agriculture scientists and adopt progressive techniques, she stressed.
 
 “Since I have cows, bulls and a lot of trees, I need not use much fertilizers. I don’t use pesticides either. I use biofertilizers after analysing the type of soil and its requirement,” he added.
 
 Earlier, agriculture officers regularly visited agriculture fields and met farmers to find out whether the methods they advocated are being employed. Those days are gone as they have a staff crunch. “These days we ourselves approach the department for advice,” she said.
 
 
