JAIPUR: The ‘Mehanathkash Panchayat’ – a union of workers in the informal sector -- has written to Prime Minister   seeking that street-side vendors who have been pushed to brink by the recent zealousness of city authorities in implementing   be offered some relief, and that the Prime Minister’s Office instruct Jaipur Mayor Ashok Lahoti – also from the BJP -- to desist from pushing those attempting to eke out a living to destitution.

 Only recently, over 10,000 vendors were thrown out of work after city authorities refused to allow them to work on the roadsides. Street food sellers and vegetable and fruit sellers took a drubbing, disappearing from their regular sites without a trace for days on end. 
 
 In his letter to the prime minister, Basant Hariyana of the workers’ union said that he appreciated that the prime minister had risen from humble origins and himself once sold tea. “The PM has also advocated sale of pakoras as a means of livelihood. I agree that an honest livelihood is nothing to be ashamed of, and the vast majority of the population depends on such means for getting by,” Hariyana writes. 
 
 Less than 10% India works in the formal sector. The large informal sector makes a major contribution to the country’s economy, although workers are typically low-skilled and low-education. Productivity per worker is much higher in the formal sector but the informal sector, with its low wages and poor work conditions, contributes two-thirds of the country’s GDP.
 
 Hariyana in his letter to the prime minister explained that workers are not against beautification of cities. He says workers too would like not just their city or the country, but the whole world to be more beautiful. However, each time beautification projects are undertaken, it is the homes of the poor that are pulled down on the excuse that these are illegal. The poor are driven from their homes and their means of making a living are worst affected. 
 
 Police and city authorities must be instructed not to harass the poor in their bid to beautify and clean up the city, Hariyana has pleaded.
 
 
