CHENNAI: For years, parks have been the only breathing space in the city taken over by high-rises. The green spaces protected big trees when the rest of the city was being robbed off greenery.

 
 
  
 
 
 Eight years ago, three parks and nearly 400 trees in the city made way for metro rail. Now, the city could lose more parks when Chennai   Limited ( ) begins construction of the 107.55km Phase 2. At least two stations have been planned close to Natesan Park and   in T Nagar.
 
 While a detailed design showing the exact location of the stations is yet to come out, going by CMRL’s initial alignment plan, a part of the eight-acre Panagal Park may make way for a metro station. “We planned a station in Natesan Park but we changed the location a little away on   as Natesan Park is close to Panagal Park,” a metro rail official said. “A station has been planned at Panagal Park. Intricate details will be planned and designed when a detailed design consultant begins work in July.”
 
 The official said the consultant would conduct a tree survey and arrive at the total number of trees to be axed across the three corridors in the phase. “A preliminary design will be ready in six months,” the official said. “We will try to save as many trees as possible, but some trees will definitely go.”
 
 For CMRL, parks seem to be the easiest option to occupy and dump their equipment or build a concrete structure, as it may otherwise cause traffic chaos if the paraphernalia is stored elsewhere. “There is no other open space available. We cannot store them or build a station on the road,” a metro rail official said.
 
 In Phase 1, CMRL took over Thiru Vi Ka Park at Shenoy Nagar, Nehru Park on Poonamallee High Road and May Day Park at Chintadripet for construction. More than 220 trees were axed in these parks. While Nehru Park may open later this month — more than a year after the stretch between Nehru Park and Thirumangalam underground section became operational — it may take more than two years for the public to walk into Thiru Vi Ka Park and May Day Park.
 
 Taking over parks for construction or storing equipment for years might be CMRL’s first choice, but urban planners and environmentalists said CMRL still had the option to tweak designs and save these green spaces. “They take over parks as acquiring OSR land is easier since they belong to the government. But it is definitely not a healthy idea in a city that has lost much of its greenery. If CMRL wants a healthy environment, it has to look for an alternate place,” said professor D Narasimhan, department of botany, Madras Christian College.
 
 Though restoring a park with fresh saplings may take years, transport planner in ITDP   said metro rail should at least fulfil their promise of restoring parks on time. “Parks cannot be taken over to avoid congestion on road. Metro rail can look for alternate locations before occupying parks. If there is no place and it makes sense for the station to be located near the park, metro rail should stick to the schedule. Steps should be taken to restore the park as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 
