MUMBAI: To ensure recycling of milk pouches and PET bottles, which have been exempted from the state-wide plastic ban, the   government has decided to levy a refundable charge on such items.

 It means, consumers will have to pay 50 paise extra on every milk pouch and Re 1 for PET bottle, which includes those of soft drinks, over and above the MRP. This will be refunded when buyers return the bottles/pouches to the retailer. At the other end, the government is also evoking a rarely used provision of the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, which mentions ‘extended producers responsibility’ to ensure creation of a collect-back system for plastic waste.
 
 
  
 
 The draft plastic ban policy says the government is also working on a plan to levy a refundable ‘recycle or reuse’ cess on manufacturers. If manufacturers recycle all that they have produced, the cess will be refunded. Else, the government will use that collected amount for recycling facilities. The government is still working out the details with the GST commissionerate and local bodies as they they already have a taxation structure for these manufacturers. Since the manufacturer would have paid a levy, he or she will pressure the retailers to collect the used milk pouches/PET bottles from buyers.
 
 The environment department will be issuing the notification by the end of this month, which is when the ban on plastic bags, cutlery and secondary packaging material will come into force.
 
 The government will be bringing these changes under the Solid Waste Management Act, 2016 and also the Plastic Carry Bags (Manufacture and Usage) Rules, 2006. The government has also made it mandatory for PET bottle manufacturers to set up a recycling plant within three months from the day the ban is implemented. “Failure to set up recycling facility will lead to closure of such units,”  , additional chief secretary, environment department, told TOI. He pointed out that the licencing rules of the state have always mandated them to have recycling facilities.
 
 “They ignored it for so many years, now we have decided to implement it strictly,” said Gawai. TOI was the first to report that a plastic ban was on the cards.
 
 To enforce the ban, the government has announced a penalty of Rs 5,000 to Rs 25,000 and a three-month jail term for violators—consumers as well as manufacturers. The government will be authorising officials from gram sevaks, talathis to collectors, CEOs and designated officials of municipal corporations to collect fines and penalise violators. However, some officials have pointed out that this delegation of power could lead to corruption and blackmailing and said enough safeguards will have to be in place to ensure that the fine is collected through a digital system.
 
 Environment minister   said the idea of plastic ban is the brain child of Shiv Sena leader   who had written to him seeking a blanket ban. The government will set up a high-level committee headed by   to hear issues related to implementation of the ban so that the Act or rules can be amended, if needed.
 
 “It is unfortunate that no ban gets easily implemented in our country. However this ban will sort out 80% of the pollution without causing any inconvenience to the common man,” Aaditya said on Friday.
 
