   IT wing is all set to spruce up the party's online presence and get all the ministers and MLAs on the social media platform. 

 The party is also taking efforts to get more of its cadres into social media to tackle the online onslaught from rival parties and round the clock meme creators. Over the coming days, the party's IT wing would create union and branch level IT units across the state and rope in roughly 5,000 members to run the social media outreach. The AIADMK currently has district level units with about 700 members. The decision by AIADMK IT wing comes after its rival DMK had embarked on a similar exercise towards the end of 2017. DMK's IT wing secretary   had conducted interviews to recruit volunteers for their IT wing.
 
 "The idea is not just to counter online criticism, but also to facilitate better communication between the party and public,'' said AIADMK IT wing secretary   who has just returned from Israel as part of a young leaders delegation.
 
 All the ministers and MLAs of the ruling party would also come on board the social media bandwagon. Several ministers already have their own facebook and twitter accounts and some like minister for Tamil culture K Pandiarajan are active. Those without social media presence would be on online platforms soon.
 
 Ramachandran is well aware of the barrage of memes directed against AIADMK ministers, but says they don't see a need to counter uncouth memes and vitriolic attacks made in bad taste. "Our main aim is to make sure that any information from the government reaches the grass roots immediately. We want to bridge the gap betweem CM and CM - chief minister and common man,''   said.
 
 The 'social media speakers or social media friends' as the party calls the IT wing volunteers would not necessarily be tech savvy, but should be efficient communicators.
 
 "We feel that both in conventional media and social media, the party is shown in bad light. Hence we started a Tamil daily and would soon launch a TV. It is essential that we need a strong social media presence too,'' said an MLA from Coimbatore.
 
 
