NEW DELHI: The India Gate lawns saw a large gathering of people on Wednesday evening who came from various parts of the city to see a celestial phenomenon that has supposedly never happened in known history. Two large telescopes had been placed there and people queued up for a chance to see the ‘red moon’, ‘super moon’ and total  . 

 Arnav Bothra arrived early. He wanted to be the first to see it and show his son the “amazing sight”. The businessman said he was excited about this “once in a lifetime opportunity”. 
 
 This rare event was explained by  , a member of an astronomy education company called SPACE, to a huge crowd assembled around him. 
 
 “There is no record of any such event in the past where all three celestial events happened at the same time,” Rehman said. 
 
 He said since the moon is the closest to earth, the people would see a  , “30 times brighter and 14 times bigger than normal”. Rehman also cleared doubts of young students. He said it was a   because a full moon was seen twice a month, and a   because of the copper colour visible to the naked eye. 
 
 Friends Divyanshi and Rahul turned up at the venue just after class. The college students felt that seeing something as rare as the blue moon would be a very exciting experience.
 
 Many were seen with cameras and their own telescopes as the queues were too long. Krishaank Shukla, a Class VII student of Tagore International was one of them. 
 
 The crowd waited with bated breath for the first sight of the ‘blood moon’. Damabir Singh, a student of DPS International, was waiting with his schoolmates. “I will wait for hours to see the moon come out,” he said with much hope.
 
 His prayers were answered as soon the copper-coloured moon peeked out of the clouds. With every passing minute, it shone brighter and became clearer. Aanchal Kumar, a government employee, said, “I thought I will see a bigger and clearer moon.” 
 
 “But the experience of viewing the moon with hundreds of people is in itself something I will remember,” she added. 
 
 
