AHMEDABAD: Kalpesh Patel, a  , earlier made Rs 4 lakh   on his 16 bighas of land. Today, from the same produce on the same land, he earns Rs 15 lakh. The secret to his nearly three-fold rise in income is the new   and precision farming method.

 Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Israeli counterpart Benjamin Netanyahu will visit Patel and his facility later this week. Patel is not alone. Some 50,000 farmers like him have reaped the benefits of the Centre of Excellence for Protective Cultivation and Precision Farming on Vegetables. The centre at Vadrad village in Sabarkantha district has played a pivotal role in extension of the Indo-Israel Agriculture Plan (IIAP) to 50,000 farmers in the 30 months since it was set up.
 
  
  The Vadrad centre is one of eight in the state, set up in collaboration with Israel. Jitendra Patel, the deputy director for horticulture, who is in charge of the centre, says that the centre is set to demonstrate the technology to farmers and extend it to them, increasing their income.
 
 Jitendra Patel said the Vadrad centre raises pest and disease-free saplings at the nominal price of Re 1 per sapling from farmers’ seeds and hands back saplings to be transplanted in fields. The Vadrad centre has been developed under IIAP at a cost of Rs 11.47 crore. It is focusing on protected cultivation of vegetables.
 
 The project has four high-tech temperature and moisture-controlled polyhouses or nurseries, where seedlings are grown for a fortnight under protection till they reach a certain height. Technologies like drip irrigation, protective cultivation of germinated seedlings and a precise mixture of soil and vermicompost are used, which lead to savings on fertilizer costs further on. The seedlings so produced are of high quality and disease-free. 
 
 Patel said that because of the centre, farmers also get their crop before the trading season begins and consequently, better prices. With the produce arriving a fortnight before others, the farmer earns twice as much as he would in the middle of the season. The quality of vegetables also improves, with the minimal use of chemicals. He added that the fertilizer costs are cut by 70%.
 
 Kalpesh Patel, the farmer from Prantij, says, “If we choose conventional sowing, there is a fear of damage to the crop. If we sow seed directly in the field, about 25% do not germinate and this is also a direct loss. In the first month, we have to spray insecticide on three or four times, to save seedling from pests and insects. “With the seedling developed at the centre, I save on pesticides. During the monsoon, delayed rains can damage growth and hence if I opt for a 30-day seedling, there is no damage even if the rains are delayed.”
 
 
 
 
 Ahmedabad: In Kadi and Kalol, it is not only the usual tomato, but now also cabbage and cauliflower which is drawing traders from Delhi. Officials of the horticulture department said around 10 traders would would usually go to Kadi or Kalol, are now camping in Prantij, despatching cabbage and cauliflower consignments to Delhi. Officials said about one truckload of cabbage and cauliflower is sent to Delhi every day. Demand for cauliflower is high in north India and traders coming to Kadi and Kalol are also setting up centres in Prantij.
 
 
 
 
 Mamroli Grad Turns Farmer, Taps Israeli Ideas For Huge Profits
 
 Ahmedabad: Samir Patel, a B.Sc. in chemistry, has decided to adopt farming as his full-time profession. On a cue from the Centre of Excellence for protected cultivation and precision farming in Vadrad village, he has set up his own nursery. The turnover of his nursery per annum is around Rs 1.5 crore.
 
  
  Patel, a resident of Mamroli, said he was always interested in farming with the latest technology. “When I learnt about the centre, I was the first farmer to utilise its services,” he said. 
 
 “I still remember that I gave the seeds of ‘bitter gourd’ (karela) for seeding and, after I received the benefits, I came to the centre and studied the technology in detail,” Samir Patel said.
 
 He said that he had 25 bighas of land and had taken another 330 bighas in the area on lease. In the year 2014, his profits after deducting the expenses came to around Rs 20 lakh. 
 
 “After adopting Israeli technology, my income had grown and now I make a net profit of around Rs 60 lakh,” Samir said.
 
 He further said that he was now into farming of potatoes, bitter gourd, tomato, chillis, brocolli, red cabbage and cauliflower, among others. He further said that he had also entered into contract for potato farming with some big multinationals.
 
 Regarding the nursery that had been set up on the lines of the Vadrad centre, he said that he had grown seeds at the government centre at Vadrad and had a turnover of Rs 1.5 crore from this nursery alone. 
 
 Patel further said that his farming had grown so large in scale that now even his wife Daxa had to assist him in taking care of the nursery.
 
 
