THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a rare weather  , the India meteorological department (IMD) has warned of ‘extremely heavy rains’ across   till   ahead of the onset of southwest (SW) monsoon. International weather forecast agencies have alerted that the extreme heavy rains mark the early onset of SW monsoon in Kerala on May 28. 

 
 With extremely heavy rains of 21cm and high waves in Kerala coast, landslides, debris flows and coastal erosion are likely in parts of the state, warn officials of Kerala state disaster management authority (KSDMA). High alert has been issued in all districts through the district collectors. Taluk control rooms, fire stations and police control rooms will function round the clock in all districts and the preparedness will be on a war footing.
 
 Office of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has also alerted the residents and tourists in the state to be cautious, particularly by restricting movement and traffic in hilly terrains and low-lying areas in the state. KSDMA, IMD and Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) have also warned of high waves in the range of 3-3.6 meters (10-12ft) till 11.30pm, May 27 along the coast from Vizhinjam to Kasaragod. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea.
 
 “Extremely heavy rains of 21cm and above in Kerala is the highest order of alert issued by IMD and is a rare occurrence though stray incidents have been reported during monsoon. High alert has been sounded in all districts,” KSDMA member secretary Sekhar Kuriakose said. 
 
 Police patrols will be on to control night time traffic in vulnerable hilly areas. Night time traffic will be scaled down on major hilly roads such as KK Road in Idukki, Bathery Road in Kozhikode and Earthens Road in Wayanad and Ponmudi road in Thiruvananthapuram among other places, he said. Residents and tourists in hilly terrains and low-lying vulnerable areas have also been alerted.
 
 IMD director K Santhosh said that extremely heavy rains are likely during the pre-monsoon phase and after the onset of monsoon. Southwest monsoon advanced over parts of southeast Bay of Bengal, south Andaman Sea and Nicobar islands, on Friday. Though IMD expects the onset of SW monsoon on May 29, it can be even ahead of that based on the modal error of plus or minus four days as indicated by IMD, he said. From very heavy rains on May 26 and May 27, extremely heavy rains are forecast in parts of the state on May 28, he said.
 
 “Extremely heavy rains in Kerala is a result of low pressure over Bay of Bengal and ahead of the onset of SW monsoon in Kerala,” Kuriakose said. 
 
 
