PANAJI: Continuing their demand for a full-time chief minister in the state, the   on Sunday taunted the BJP and asked the coalition government if it needed the services of a   to head the government. 

 The Congress held a public protest near the samadhi of Goa’s first chief minister Dayanand   hours before BJP national president   arrived in the capital.
 
 “If the BJP doesn’t have faith in its own ministers, or if there is no one capable to lead the government, then we have 16 MLAs whom we all trust. Pick anyone of us and we will not have a problem,” said opposition leader  .
 
 The public protest was attended by Congress workers and nearly all the MLAs, including Mandrem MLA Dayanand Sopte and   MLA Digambar Kamat. As part of the protest, the Congress workers sang songs taunting the BJP government for shutting down mining, notifying PDAs and for angering the people.
 
 “The absence of the chief minister has created a void in the state,” Kamat said. 
 
 “For three months, many development works have been paralysed. That is why a decision was taken to bring this serious matter to light. We want the BJP national president Amit Shah to know the situation.”
 
 Parrikar has been out of the country for nearly three months and is said to be undergoing treatment for an undisclosed ailment. Parrikar has 21 portfolios, including mining, industries, education and home ministry. He has not handed over these key responsibilities to any of his cabinet colleagues.
 
 Goa Pradesh Congress president Girish Chodankar paid his respects at the samadhi of Bandodkar along with the other MLAs and Congress leaders, after which he issued a stern warning to government officers not to approve illegal proposals. 
 
 “Goa’s chief secretary, Goa Police chief and other government officers should not approve important files because they will be liable for the decisions and may have to go to jail. If any officer signs on any illegal document, we will not show any mercy,” Chodankar warned.
 
 “Parrikar has 11 ministers. He should have picked the senior most minister and handed over the responsibility,” said Sopte.
 
 
