GAYA: The ongoing process of MoU detailing the process of assets and liabilities division between Magadh University and its off shoot Pataliputra University appears to have hit a road block following the hardening of their respective stand on some of the most contentious issues that include the apportionment of employees, funds transfer and distribution of official vehicles. 

 The dispute over the possession of MU’s Patna branch office appears to have been settled in favour of Pataliputra University and now MU is looking for rented accommodation as it continues to need a roof in Patna for important works including transfer of records, issuance of certificates to registered students and other sundry things.
 
 No official from either side is ready to go on record on the contentious issues resulting in stalemate-like situation. According to sources, Pataliputra University has outrightly rejected the apportionment formula offered by the parent university. 
 
 As per the MU formula, employees reaching the superannuation age in the next one year and those having serious health issues are to be retained by the parent university. The number of such employees is said to be about 100.
 
 Of the remaining about 400 headquarter-based employees, 73% were to be shifted to Pataliputra University. Those figuring at no 2,3,4,6,7,8 slots of the gradation list were to be shifted to Pataliputra. Sources also say that during negotiation, the Pataliputra University, on the alibi of skill, wanted to cherry pick, saying that being new, the university needed better skilled personnel to run different sections of the university. MU is opposed to such cherry pick. MU favours distribution under some structured formula.
 
 However, MU authorities are learnt to have offered an alternative formula under which the employees would be given the option to join Pataliputra University. In case sufficient number of employees do not opt for the new university, the remaining employees would be chosen from the gradation list not randomly but under some formula.
 
 In view of the hardened stand of both the sides, the Raj Bhavan and the government may have to intervene to resolve the contentious apportionment issue. MU has agreed to transfer Rs five crore as seed money for the new university in two instalments, the first instalment of Rs 2 crore is to be transferred immediately. But Pataliputra University is eying the funds of the exam and distance education department. 
 
 The MU has also agreed to spare two vehicles for the new university. Pataliputra University has got a fancy for top model vehicles, which, MU authorities are said to be reluctant to accept.
 
 
