PATNA: Central Industrial Security Force ( ) personnel, which provide security cover to the airports, believe in going above and beyond the call of their duty. Or so vouch flyers who lost and found their belongings at the Patna airport.

 Take, for instance, the case of Farida   who flew from Saudi Arabia to Patna to attend her dad’s funeral on Wednesday noon. 
 
 “I had a diamond ring worth Rs 50,000 in my handbag, which fell somewhere between the runway and the arrival lounge apparently when I opened the bag to take out my keys,” the 35-year-old told TOI on Thursday, adding she had seen it missing on reaching the parking lot but hurried home so as not to miss the funeral.
 
 Though the   woman didn’t have hopes of getting her diamond solitaire back, her family members persuaded her to lodge a complaint with the CISF around 4.30pm. 
 
 “By that time at least 20 flights had either landed or taken off... Yet we didn’t give up and rummaged through the CCTV footage,” a CISF officer said.
 
 The footage showed a co-passenger of Imam’s flight pick up the ring and hand it over to a ground staff. When confronted, the employee initially pleaded ignorance, but gave in when the CISF interrogators threatened to send him to jail on the basis of the footage. 
 
 Imam was informed about the recovery of her ring the same evening. She collected it on Thursday morning. “The contractual ground employee has since been sacked,” a CISF officer said and added this was third lost-and-found incident at the airport this month alone. 
 
 On February 15, Kolkata-bound   lost her gold pendant at the airport and didn’t even know about it. One airport employee found it lying near one of the boarding gates and handed it over to the CISF. 
 
 “We immediately went through the CCTV footage and saw Naz’s daughter play with the chain around her mom’s neck,” the CISF officer recalled. The pendant was returned to the woman before she boarded her flight.
 
 In the first week of February, a Delhi businessman compalined to the CISF that he had lost his gold bracelet in the security hold area. A doctor couple was seen in the CCTV footage picking it up from the security hold area. The couple flew for Chennai, but was intercepted when the flight landed at Ranchi on way. 
 
 “The duo denied being in possession of any bracelet and even dropped names to intimidate the interrogators. They, however, threw in the towel after the CISF officers warned them that they would land behind bars,” the officer said and added the businessman, who had since flown to Delhi, collected the bracelet days later. 
 
 Sources said lost valuables worth around Rs 4-5 lakh are collected by the CISF at the airport every day, and returned to the actual owners with the help of CCTV footage. “We are in the process of installing more CCTV cameras on the airport premises,” another CISF officer said.
 
 
