NOIDA: City police is planning to launch an initiative to reach out to senior citizens who are living alone in different sectors in Noida. The aim is to interact with elderly people, know their problems, and take necessary measures for their safety. 

 
 Earlier, police carried out a week-long campaign, called Operation Pink, to determine how safe some public places are for women. Now, they are planning to focus on the safety of senior citizens. 
 
 Police officials will soon make a list of senior citizens living in the city. Ajay Pal Sharma, SSP, Gautam Budh Nagar, said, “The police teams will reach out to them and understand the problems they face. They will collect feedback and take necessary action accordingly,” he said. 
 
 Asha Khosla, an 89-year-old woman who lives alone in Sector 20, said she was unable to do some chores by herself. Her son lives in Mayur Vihar. She said that sometimes she wanted help with the telephone bill payment. 
 
 “I have a landline that connects me with my family and friends but I only get an SMS, informing me about my monthly telephone bill. I, sometimes, miss this message and sometimes, the network disconnects, creating a lot of trouble. I will ask police officials to fix this issue,” the 89-year-old said.
 
 Some residents, who are in their mid-50s and live by themselves, are also concerned about their safety.   (55), a resident of Greater Noida’s Sector P3, works as a general manager with a private company. 
 
 He said that his two sons worked in IT companies in Pune and Gurgaon. 
 
 “Their work has taken them to different places. I live with my wife Anita at our   home. The children visit us sometimes. However, as we are growing old, the safety concern is starting to affect us,” he said, adding that he had to leave for office daily after advising his wife to stay safe by herself.
 
 Sharma and Amit Kishore Shrivastava, circle officer 1, Greater Noida, held a meeting with residents in Greater Noida on Thursday. 
 
 The police team has decided to conduct a tenant verification drive in Greater Noida sectors, as of now. 
 
 Harinder Bhati, general secretary, RWA, Sector Beta 1, who was present at the meeting, said that petty crimes such as snatchings and thefts were committed by criminals who lived in the neighbourhood. “The police personnel should meet elderly people to instill a sense of security among them,” he added.
 
 Some Noida residents said that the connection between residents and police was better two years ago. 
 
 Suresh Tiwari, senior vice-president of FONRWA, said that police and society residents had held meetings on the safety of senior citizens two years ago. 
 
 “Earlier, the beat constables used to visit the society and talk to all the residents. This had created some sense of security among the people. But this network has weakened and people nowadays do not even know the local chowki-in-charge of the beat constables,” said Tiwari.
 
