NEW DELHI: Congress today termed the Enforcement Directorate (ED) raids on  's premises "a malicious vendetta" by PM Modi and his government against senior Congress leaders. 

 
  "Not surprised by the malicious vendetta being unleashed against senior Congress leaders including   and his son. Everyday PM Modi and his government use ED and CBI as captive puppets to seek revenge from opposition," said Congress leader Randeep Surjewala, according to reports on ANI.
 
  Earlier today, ED had conducted raids at Karti Chidambaram's premises in Delhi and Chennai in connection with a   case.
 
  On Thursday, ED had issued fresh summons to Karti Chidambaram, the son of senior Congress leader P Chidambaram, after he skipped his appearance before it in connection with the   money laundering case probe.
 
  Official sources said he has now been called by the agency on January 16.
 
  The investigating officer (IO) of the case had earlier this month summoned him for appearance on Thursday, which he skipped.
 
  The central probe agency had registered a case against him and others in May this year.
 
  It had registered an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR), the ED's equivalent of a police FIR, against the accused named in a CBI complaint, including Karti Chidambaram, INX Media and its directors, Peter and Indrani Mukerjea.
 
  The ECIR was lodged under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).
 
  It was the ED which had provided information about the alleged illegal payments made by INX Media, based on which the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had filed its FIR.
 
  The CBI had also carried out searches at the homes and offices of Karti Chidambaram across four cities for allegedly receiving money from the media firm owned by the Mukerjeas to scuttle a tax probe.
 
  The Chidambarams have denied all the charges made against them.
 
  Earlier, the CBI had filed the FIR against Karti Chidambaram and the Mukerjeas on charges of criminal conspiracy, cheating, receiving illegal gratification, influencing public servants and criminal misconduct.
 
  The agency has alleged that Karti Chidambaram received money from INX Media for using his influence to manipulate a tax probe against it in a case of violation of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) conditions to receive investment from Mauritius.
 
 
 
 
  The CBI has said it has also recovered vouchers of Rs 10 lakh which were allegedly paid for the services.
 
  These vouchers were issued in favour of Advantage Strategic Consulting (P) Limited, a firm "indirectly" owned by Karti Chidambaram, the CBI had alleged.
 
 
 
 
