Over the past few months, the television industry has lost some of its young talents to death. And now, it has suffered yet another tragic loss with the demise of TV actor and creative director  , who died in his sleep on March 25, following a cardiac arrest. 
Karan, who acted in the TV show 'Dil  ' 10 years ago, was currently working as the creative head of a TV channel. While the pressures of showbiz are many, his co-actors and friends confirm that he wasn’t undergoing any stress or health issues.His 'Dil Mill Gaye' co-actor and friend Neha Jhulka says, “I spoke to him just a day before his death and he was absolutely fine. In fact, he was looking forward to meeting up with friends 
 
 She adds, “Karan had a habit of playing pranks on everyone. So, when I heard about his death, I wondered if it was another prank. I am just too shocked and shaken.”
 Sehban Azim, Karan’s co-actor and friend from 'Dil Mill Gaye', says, “He suited the role of   so well that we used to call him Jigs. He was such a happy guy. He also did not drink or smoke, he was quite disciplined that way.”
 Palki Malhotra, the content head of a production house, says, “He started work as my intern when I started work on 'Dil Mill Gaye'. He used to dance well and I wanted to cast him as a lead actor in my other show, but that never happened. He was very enthusiastic and I remember his energy on the sets.”
 Actor and CINTAA secretary Sushant Singh says, “The pressures of showbiz are many, but it is not that people don’t die young in other professions. I think it is the balance that today’s youngsters should strike between their work and personal life. Life moves at a fast pace and one has to find that perfect balance.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 In the first week of March, Sanjay  , 40-year-old supervising producer of the TV show, ‘Ishqbaaz,’ ended his life by jumping off his 16th floor flat in  . In October 2017, Salil Singh, the 30-year-old son of producer BP Singh, died following a heart attack. Director Talat Jani, in his early 50s, too passed away the same month due to renal problems. 'Savdhan India'’s casting director   also took his own life in October last year. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
