Shiv Shakti Apartments in Noida’s Sector 71 celebrated an early   on Saturday, and that too in daylight. There were dholwallahs, firecrackers, and lots of dancing. The occasion was that one of them had become a world champion.  , the 19-year-old fast bowler from Noida, was part of the Indian team that defeated Australia by eight wickets in   to win the ICC U-19 World Cup on Saturday, and as soon as the winning runs were scored, his dad Pankaj was hoisted by neighbours on their shoulders. "We always considered him our little champion. Now he is a world champ," Pankaj said.

  
  Shivam Mavi 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  The Boys in Blue dominated Australia in the largely one-sided final. The   had set up a big screen, projector and dhol to watch the final and particularly Shivam, who has been in form all through the World Cup. Even though the match began at 6.30am, the neighbours braved the chill and morning fog to converge on the street and watch the game on the big screen. Every wicket that India took elicited loud cheers and dhol beats, especially when Shivam had   caught behind to end Australia’s innings. "He was always destined to be a champion," Shivam's cousin   told us, adding, "Even when we played gully cricket, nobody wanted to face him. Tab bhi deadly tha."
 
  
  Shivam' s dad Pankaj outside his house in Noida (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 
  
  
 
  Shivam’s family hasn’t spoken to him in almost a week, since the team’s coach   has instructed the entire team to switch their phones off during the World Cup. "We will talk to him and ask him what he wants as a gift. Poore desh ka naam roshan kiya hai usne, sirf hamara hi nahin. Now, we will get ready to welcome him in a grand way," said Pankaj. While the cricket fans were glued in front of the big screen during the game, Shivam's mother Kavita did not watch the game at all. She, along with some neighbours and family members, performed a puja in the morning for the team and sat next to the havan kund during the entire game.
 
 
  
  Shivam's mom Kavita
 
  The moment India won the game, Shivam’s friends and family broke into frenzied celebrations, and danced to loud dhol beats. Almost the entire neighbourhood was out on the narrow bylane in front of his house, celebrating their boy’s win. "We want him to know this isn't the end of the road. Abhi toh use aur bahut khelna hai. Aur bahut jeetna hai," said his mother Kavita.
 
 
  
  Shivam's family and neighbours had gathered in front of his house to watch the game live on the big screen
 
  
  
 
