JAIPUR: Recently acquired  , which will be auctioned soon, is likely to have Rs 1.5 lakh per square metre as base price.

 According to official sources, the JDA will auction Lakshmi Vilas Hotel and the adjoining marriage garden constructed in an area of about 18,000 square metre.
 
 “The actual price will be fixed after valuation. Primarily, we have decided to keep Rs 1.5 lakh per square metre. As the real estate market is facing slump, the JDA will keep comparatively low base price. The final nod will be given by the state government.” 
 
 The suggestion to auction Lakshmi Vilas Palace to be run for hotel was recommended as the heritage building was being used as one for several years. Moreover, the usage of land is earmarked as commercial in Master Plan-2025.
 
 Surrounded by greenery, walking/jogging tracks, a golf course, a polo ground, Lakshmi Vilas was a popular tourist destination ever since it was converted to a heritage hotel in the early 1970s. Committee comprising JDA’s additional commissioner, additional director (tourism) and joint secretary (GAD) earlier suggested that state government can earn huge revenue after auctioning the hotel to private player. 
 
 It was informed that Lakshmi Vilas was originally an estate motor garage and constructed during the period of Sawai Man Singh II. It was converted into a hotel by erstwhile ruler Bhawani Singh. In 1986, Bhawani Singh sold both Lakshmi Vilas as well as Kanak Bhawan. The three families who owned the properties were using parts of it for residential and commercial purpose. However, the JDA challenged the sale of both the properties.
 
 Following   directions, the JDA on May 5, had taken possession of properties Lakshmi Vilas Hotel, Kanak Bhawan and a horse stable at Central Park that were spread over nearly 35,000 square metres. 
 
 Under the Rajasthan State Land Acquisition Act, the   (UIT) acquired 322 bigha land in Rambagh Complex for public utility in 1973. As per UIT claims, the two prime structures were part of the “acquired” land. 
 
 Official further informed, Kanak Bhawan, which is spread over 3,890 square metre will be soon developed as JDA’s guest house. The acquired stable land which covers about 11,000 square metre of area will remain as part of Central Park. 
 
 
