JAIPUR: Three unidentified assailants barged into a gym and shot dead a 30-year-old local history-sheeter in   on Tuesday morning, raising concern about the increasing incidents of gang wars in the city. Vinod Jat alias Jordan, a resident of Mohar Singh Chowk area was working out alone in the gym at 5.30 am when three youths, holding guns in both hands entered the building.

 According to the police, the incident occurred at the gym located in Jawahar Nagar area of the city. Jat was working out alone at the gym. “Three youths holding guns in both hands, arrived at the reception area of the gym and asked a staffer to open the main gate which was locked by thumb impression,” official said.
 
 The staffer opened the glass door after which the two entered the room while third one stood outside to guard the reception area. The assailants fired at least 16 rounds. Jat tried to dodge bullets by hiding behind the gym equipment. In a last desperate attempt, he even tried to break the glass window which opens out on the road, but in vain. “The trio fired at quick succession. The bullets were spread across the gym,” the official said.
 
 Jat’s bullet-riddled body was found behind a weight lifting machine. Jat was a history-sheeter with at least 11 cases registered against him. A team of   (SOG) of Rajasthan police has also been sent to Sriganganagar from Jaipur to assist the local police in the investigation.
 
 “The family members have raised suspicions that members of notorious gangster   could be behind the incident and that some members of the gang had threatened him. However, it is too early to say that,” the official told TOI. “These three youths had some argument with Jat only a few days ago. They may belong to a rival gang,” said the official.
 
 The city has long been facing problems of organised crime, in January this year, Punjab’s most wanted gangster and Nabha jail break mastermind Vicky Gounder was also found to be hiding in the city before he was gunned down by the   police.
 
 In February this year, the local police had arrested two youths from Punjab in connection with the murder of a jeweller. Both had ties with the Bishnoi gang. “The gangs of Punjab and   regularly cross over into Rajasthan for ransom and other criminal activities,” the official said, adding that they are probing the role of two gangsters- Ankit Bhadoo and   in Jat’s murder.
 
 
