Play has a role in   treatment. Just as yoga, pranayama and physical training do, as a growing number of hospitals and doctors across the country are now realising.

 Walk into the chemotherapy area of HCG Pvt Ltd, a cancer hospital in Bengaluru, and you are likely to see young patients “preparing” injections: they happily rummage through a toy “medical kit,” pick up a toy syringe and fill it with saline water. Notice boards mention timings for sessions of yoga, pranayama or counselling. Doctors here believe that such diversions help patients maintain their mental equilibrium in the battle against cancer.
 
 
 “Cancer takes an emotional toll as well. We hence help patients, whether children or adults, build mental strength in their fight against the disease,” said Dr  , a psycho-oncologist at HCG.
 
  
  
 
 Over the last year, Sitaram has been testing a new experiment in a bid to reduce the sideeffects of radiation therapy on children. While the usual practice is to give sedatives for children undergoing radiation therapy, Sitaram has counselled them to relax and take a nap during these sessions; as they don’t need sedatives, they no longer feel nauseated at the end of the sessions. Apart from medication and therapy, many oncology institutes use yoga, meditation, physical training and games to help patients undergoing chemotherapy. These interventions help manage symptoms such as fatigue, sleep disturbance, loss of appetite, chemotherapy-induced nausea and pain in cancer patients, said HCG researchers who recently published a study titled ‘Role of Yoga in Cancer Patients’ in the Indian Journal of Palliative Care.
 
 From this year, the government-run Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology (KMIO) in Bengaluru has incorporated yoga into its treatment for select cancer patients, especially those with cervical cancer and leukaemia.
 
 “It’s not just physical pain but also psychological, social and spiritual trauma that cancer patients experience. All this needs a holistic approach,” said Dr Prabha  , consultant anaesthetist, department of palliative medicine, KMIO. More than 80% of patients arrive at KMIOduring advancedstages of cancer, and they come from across Karnataka,  , Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and  .
 
 At KMIO, volunteers engage patients in the palliative care wing with games, activities, pranayama and meditation sessions. “Yoga and exercise lead to release of endorphins, the hormones that give a sense of wellbeing,” said Dr Seshachar. “A patient needs more than just medicine; good quality of life is necessary,” she added. The yoga module depends on a patient’s need.
 
 Dr  , chief medical officer, Swami Vivekananda Yoga Anusandhana Samsthana (S-VYASA), has been working with cancer patients for decades. “Yoga provides psychological relief. We have success stories where patients have seen improvement in health when yoga is practised along with chemotherapy or radiation. The side-effects of chemotherapy can be reduced,” he said.
 
 For a month, Naresh (name changed), a farmer, has been doing pranayama and yoga postures at KMIO, where he is undergoing treatment for a brain tumour. “I couldn’t make a fist when I came, but after a week of yoga, I could move my hand. I have noticed the headaches are not so troublesome after I do the breathing exercises,” he said.
 
