NEW DELHI: More than 2,000 students, who had appeared for the staff selection commission examination, staged a protest against the   paper leaks in Lutyens’ Delhi on Saturday. The protesters clashed with the cops after they were stopped from marching towards the Parliament. Cops had to use force to remove the agitators from the scene after some of them tried to climb over barricades.

 Joint commissioner (New Delhi), Ajay Chaudhary, said the groups had initially sought permissions to protest peacefully. “We told them about the NGT guidelines and insisted that they should go to Ramlila Maidan. The members of the organising group had agreed. One group, however, claimed to be a part of a different organisation and started marching towards CP. They were stopped at Janpath. We have detained 207 protestors during this,” said Chaudhary.
 
 The SSC aspirants demanded a Supreme Court-monitored probe by  , and staged a protest at Jantar Mantar. Around 3pm, a group of 200-250 students decided to march towards the Department of Personnel and Training office through Connaught Place, and reached Janpath where they were stopped by police.
 
 The protesters claimed they had given the DoPT a deadline till 3pm to come up with a promise to offer them a job. “When we did not recieve a reply, we decided to march towards the office. However, on the way we were stopped by the police. A   broke out after some outsiders who had joined us tried to climb over the barricade,” said a member of the student committee of ‘Yuva HallaBol’.
 
 When they refused to turn away, they were caught and detained. Some of the students were allegedly dragged by the police into the buses. A number of students were injured. A few protesters were allegedly beaten with canes. However, the cops denied that any protester was hit with canes.
 
 The detained youths were taken to four different police stations and detained till late at night. Some of them were also taken to the RML hospital for treatment.
 
 “We condemn the role of some anti-social elements who unsuccessfully tried to hijack genuine angst and plight of the students. Groups with vested interests who were never a part of the SSC movement tried to disrupt Yuva HallaBol by their indisciplined & irresponsible behaviour. Protesting SSC Students do not endorse or support the actions of such elements,” said a statement from the committee.
 
 In the meantime, NSUI, SFI and ABVP have held their own set of protests, asking for resignation of the minister and CBSE chairperson
 
 
