NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday filed a chargesheet against 95 persons including former MP minister Lakshmikant Sharma, his then OSD O P Shukla, three other officials and 83 candidates in connection with alleged irregularities in the examination conducted by the Madhya Pradesh’s Professional Examination Board, also called  , in 2011.

 The FIR was registered against 77 candidates, whose marks were illegally inflated in the   – 3 exam and others including middlemen and Vyapam officials. The STF, Bhopal had filed four chargesheets in the matter.
 
 Former   higher and technical education minister Lakshmikant Sharma is out on bail since 2015 after serving over one year in jail.
 
 It was revealed from the files contained in the hard disk of the computer of then principal system analyst-Vyapam that marks of certain candidates were allegedly increased to enable them to qualify the test.
 
 "The same were verified with the OMR answer sheets of the candidates and it was found that marks of 84 candidates were increased, in the final result, to make them qualify the examination. One candidate is absconding and investigation is continuing in his case," said CBI spokesperson Abhishek Dayal.
 
 "Investigation further revealed that the accused public servants and other private persons collected the examination details like roll number, form number etc of the candidates and provided the same to then principal system analyst-Vyapam. The examination details so received by said principal system analyst were entered into a digital file on the computer, which contained the details of the candidates along with their names/roll numbers and the name of the middlemen who had sponsored the candidates," he said.
 
 The CBI added that just prior to the declaration of the result, the principal system analyst created another database in respect of the candidates whose marks were intended to be increased. "It was also alleged that in the result database, he increased the marks as per the requirement of the candidates so as to make them qualify the examination and thereafter the actual marks obtained by the 84 accused candidates were deleted from the result file. No change in the OMR answer sheets could be made. The original marks obtained by the accused candidates, as per the OMR sheets, were less than the marks declared in the result," Dayal added.
 
