Thiruvananthapuram: The conclave of finance ministers of southern states became a platform for unleashing an attack on the Centre’s financial policies as Congress, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) and Left parties came out against the terms of reference (ToR) stipulated by the Centre in the 15th   for devolution of funds to states.

 Though the speakers said that there was no politics in the subject, the attack on the policies of BJP was very much palpable in their words. While Telangana and Tamil Nadu kept away due to political reasons, the representatives of participating states – Puducherry, Karnataka and Andhra – unleashed attacks on the fiscal policies pursued by the Centre.
 
 At the conclave, ministers of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry opined that ToR contradicted the principles of federalism enshrined in the Constitution. They added that it will also pave the way for revenue loss for states having a good performance record. The move to replace 1971 census data with 2011 data for devolution of funds will be detrimental to all southern states, they said.
 
 The most-vehement critic was Puducherry chief minister   who led the attack. Criticizing Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Narayanasamy said that Modi is interested in diluting powers. “PM says he believes in cooperative federalism. The definition of cooperative federalism, according to Modi, is to control states and dilute powers,” he said.
 
 Narayanasamy said that while the apex court chides states for not fulfilling poll promises, the Centre is asking states not to come up with populist schemes. Taking the specific case of his home state, he claimed that lieutenant governor of Puducherry, Kiran Bedi is only bothered about blocking all files she received. “It is high time that the interests of states are protected,” he said.
 
 Agriculture minister Krishna Byre Gowda, representing Karnataka, said that the 15th Finance Commission’s terms of reference would be a problem. “Population is a factor, but more than that, the terms of reference say that incentives will be given to states that are striving to achieve the fertility rate of 2.1. The southern states have already surpassed that target, which means that the incentive will also be denied to them,” he said, adding that categorizing programmes as populist was a subjective matter. 
 
 Veteran TDP leader and finance minister of Andhra   said that the Centre decided on the terms of reference arbitrarily without consulting any state. “Around 80% of developmental activities are to be undertaken by states and a major share of the revenue from the states go to Centre,” he said.
 
 
