CHENNAI: Shri Kumar was over the moon when the Greater Chennai Corporation removed stalls and eateries that had encroached upon the footpath at Ratna Nagar in Teynampet. But like unoccupied pavements, his joy too was shortlived.

 “The residents had to hound the corporation for eight months and still it required the intervention of   legislator R Nataraj to get the stalls removed,” said Shri Kumar. On Sunday, he hosted an event to appreciate the former police officer’s help in removing the encroachments. But no sooner had the dust settled on the event, the stalls were back at the same spot from where they had been removed. And the fight that the residents thought they had won begun again.
 
 “How can the corporation allow the stalls to come back? Removing encroachments is a pointless exercise if they can come back easily,” Shri Kumar said.
 
 To the average person it may seem that the corporation’s encroachment removal drives are no more than pointless exercises. And it was evident when Teynampet zonal officials (zone 9) removed illegal structures — steps and ramps — built by commercial superstores on Ranganathan Street in   on Monday. “Let them remove, we will build again,” a staff of a shop affected by the drive told TOI.
 
 The confidence squatters, who gobble up precious public space, exude are not because official apathy is the norm, rather the squatters enjoy political backing. Whether it is the footpath stall or big brands, the scale of support is directly proportional to the money involved, said corporation sources.
 
 “There are exemptions. We cannot take action in these instances without approval from bosses in Ripon Buildings,” said a zonal officer. He was responding to a query from TOI on whether there was a procedure to be followed in order to remove an encroachment. Zonal officers are empowered to take action on illegal structures, but seldom flex their muscles.
 
 But former councillor and   leader Deva Jawahar said political backing cannot be cited as a reason for not cracking down on encroachments. “IAS does not stand for ‘I Am Sorry’. The officials should not be giving excuses for not taking action. We need administrators who are truthful and are bold enough to take a call,” Jawahar said. He said he could understand that officials were hesitant to act on their own under former chief minister   who held sway. “But if they say that they are afraid to take action even under Edappadi Palaniswami, then these officials are just being selfish,” Jawahar said.
 
 TOI reached out to deputy commissioner (works) M Govinda Rao for comment, but he did not respond.
 
 
