DARJEELING: Chief minister   wants people in the Hills to ensure peace so that her government can work for their prosperity. Referring to the Rs 300-crore loss in tea industry with the total damage in the Hills adding up to Rs 1,000 crore during the 104-day shutdown, the CM said at the Hill Business Summit (HBS): “You give us peace, we will give you prosperity. I come to north Bengal twice a month. I am like your elder sister, so feel free to get in touch with me in case you are having a problem.”

 During the inaugural session of the business summit itself, the CM offered Rs 100 crore for boosting trade and business in the Hills, including investment sectors — horticulture, food processing, tea tourism, cultural tourism, software, medicinal plants, education and transport. “We have many firsts to our credit. We are number one in the ease of doing business, skill development and MSME sector,” the CM said.
 
 Mamata felt that the symbiotic relationship can thrive only if the Narendra Modi government at the Centre doesn’t give indulgence to those who want to take away Darjeeling from West Bengal. “I would only expect Delhi not to meddle with those trying to divide the Hills for narrow electoral gains,” the CM said while inaugurating the HBS at Darjeeling’s Mall on Monday.
 
 Elaborating on the government initiative, the CM said: “The government is setting up IT parks in Darjeeling and Kalimpong. Mirik can also be suitable place for a software park. Kurseong can be developed as an education hub. Presidency University is having a campus here. There are so many areas — Tiger Hill, Mirik, Sandakphu, Lava, Lolegaon — that we need to explore. Investors like Harsh Neotia has a Rs 300crore investment plan. Mayank Jalan also has some food processing plans. I’ve heard that Dilip Roy has some hotel plans. Weather in the Hills is quite favourable for growing orchids and flowers, which can be exported. Representatives from Japan have evinced interest in nurturing the tea industry. The   is coming up at  ,” the CM said. She also urged CII director general Chandrajit Banerjee to prepare a master plan for Darjeeling, highlighting the business potential in the area. Incidentally, the summit is organised in association with CII.
 
 Mamata then turned to   chairman Binay Tamang and said: “You all wanted a business summit here. The government made it happen in a month. Investors are ready to put in money in this region. They want three things from you — keep Darjeeling green and clean. Solve the water shortage and guarantee peace in the Hills,” the CM said.
 
