PUNE: In a judgment on March 20, the court of First Class Judicial Magistrate handed over custody of 55   to ResQ Charitable Trust, an animal welfare organisation in the city, and ordered that the felines be put up for  .

 The judgment follows a six-month-long battle in court after 55 cats were rescued from a filthy one-bedroom apartment in   in a horrendous condition.
 
 In the last order on March 15, 2018, the court ordered the accused to fulfil a bond towards upkeep of animals, failing which the cats would be considered forfeited. The accused, however, informed the court that they would not execute the bond. The failure to take responsibility of animals resulted in the final forfeiture of the rescued cats on March 20, as per the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Care and Maintenance of Case Property Animals) Rules, 2017.
 
 Neha  , president, RESQ Charitable Trust, said, “Tuesday's order shows that the judiciary has ensured that the animals are the ultimate beneficiaries of its decision. When these cats first came to RESQ, they had a long-standing medical ailment due to neglect and were feral in nature because of lack of human interaction. They were locked up in a house with no ventilation, inadequate sunlight, and grossly insufficient amount of space and covered in layers of faeces."
 
 Panchamiya said that in the last six months, the ResQ team has toiled to ensure that these cats received medical care, rehabilitation and exercise they needed to ensure that they are healthy and adoptable. The cats have been given enrichment and have now learned to trust humans again. "They are between the ages of six months and seven years and will be put up for adoption soon," she said.
 
 In September 2017, Humane Society International-India received complaints from Aact India (Action for Animals against Cruelty and Trauma) and coordinated a   operation to save 55 cats with the help of RESQ Charitable Trust. 
 
 Meher Mathrani, head, Aact India, then filed an FIR which the Kondhwa Police Station acted upon and seized the animals to bring them to safety.
 
 N G Jayasimha, managing director  , said, “The way the 2017 rules have been used in this case shows that the new rules can be positively implemented to impact the lives of animals."
 
