Ludhiana: In order to generate more revenue from   collection, the local bodies department is planning to impose the tax even on the exempted sectors. Curently people having houses built up to 125 square yards are exempted from the tax and moreover there is no tax on vacant plots. But under the new proposed rates, the civic officials are planning to impose tax on the exempted sections as well. The local bodies department has sent a draft of proposals to officials for their suggestions. 

 Last year, the local bodies department had sought suggestions from the MC officials to improve the recovery of property tax in response to which officials from Ludhiana MC had given these suggestions which have been included in the draft for the property tax rates revision. 
 
 In the draft it has been suggested that currently there is no property tax on vacant plots and land despite the fact that after construction, tax is levied on covered as well as vacant areas of the plot. Therefore for vacant plots, property tax equivalent to the tax levied on the vacant area in respect of constructed property should be imposed. 
 
 Similarly, at present tax is exempted for residential houses measuring 50 square yards or less, single storey residential houses measuring 125 square yards or less, residential flats having super covered area measuring 500 square feet or less. Therefore it has been proposed to levy Rs 50 as property tax per annum for residential houses measuring 50 square yards, for single-storey residential houses measuring 125 square yards or less Rs 100 per annum and for residential flats having super covered area measuring 500 square feet or less Rs 100 per annum. 
 
 At present properties owned by freedom fighters, ex-servicemen, widows and handicapped persons are exempted. Keeping this in mind, it is proposed that only one residential property to these categories be exempted from property tax and their other properties be charged as per normal rates. 
 
 Also the government educational institutions and government-aided educational institutions are exempted from payment of property tax. Private educational institutions are being charged as under Industrial category with 50% rebate. It is proposed to bring private education institutions under commercial category with no rebate. No change for Government educational institutions and the government-aided educational institutions. 
 
 For multiplex and malls etc the present rates are Rs 15 per square feet and it is proposed to increase these rates to Rs 20 per square feet. Similarly for marriage palaces, the present rates are Rs 6 per square yard and it is proposed to increase these rates to Rs 15 per square yard. At present godowns are treated as industrial properties. Currently, tariff chargeable for below the area of 4000 square yards is Rs 5 and above 4000 square yards area, the charges are Rs 7.50 per square yard. It is proposed to treat them in commercial category. 
 
 For hotels, currently the rates are charged under commercial category where in rates of property tax for basement, first floor, other floors and vacant area is half of built up area for ground floor. However, in case of hotels there is no such floor wise impact on room rent. Hence it is proposed that rates be kept same as commercial for all floors as built up area for ground floor except basement and vacant area which is to be charged at 50%.
 
 Meanwhile MC superintendent, Vivek Verma said they have been asked to send the suggestions for draft of proposed changes in the property tax structure so that the quality of tax collection could be improved. He said they would send their suggestions in this regard. 
 
 Only 63% of property tax covered
 
 The draft mentions that in Punjab, the coverage of property tax is only 63% against the requirement of 90% under the guidelines of the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transmission (AMRUT). In the draft, the example Nellore in Andhra Pradesh has been given which has achieved 100% coverage and 93.39% collection efficiency and Guntur has achieved 90.05% and 95.68% respectively.
 
 
