Kota: A two-storey building, housing a restaurant-cum-bar collapsed in Dhanmandi area under Gumanpura police station area of Kota on Saturday. Four persons were rescued from the debris and no loss of life has been reported so far. However, one person is feared trapped under the debris and efforts are on to rescue him. 

 According to circle in-charge (CI) at Gumanpura police station Anand Yadav, the collapse of the building created panic in the area. The rescue operation by NDRF, SDRF, civil defence and Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC) teams was immediately started. Four persons trapped under the debris were rescued within an hour. Three of them are undergoing treatment at Maharao Bhim Singh (MBS) Hospital with minor injuries, while the fourth one is unhurt, he said.
 
 Another man identified as Saddam is feared trapped under the debris and efforts by the rescue teams are underway to rescue him.
 
 The reason behind collapse of the double storey building is yet to be ascertained.
 
 Three persons identified as Jitendra Meena (20), a resident of Baran district, Budhiprakesh (26) of Budhadite village of Kota district and Vinay Roy (53) of Kota railway station area, all three rescued from the debris of collapsed building are undergoing treatment in MBS hospital with minor injuries, police personnel at MBS hospital police check post told. 
 
 Top police and administrative officials, including Kota district collector Rohit Gupta and IG Kota range Vishal Bansal, KMC commissioner Vikram Jindal rushed to spot immediately after the building collapse and monitored the rescue operation.
 
 Only labourers at the building were reportedly inside the building at the time of collapse and there was no customer since its being morning time. 
 
 The ground floor portion, where the bar runs, was reportedly collapsed leading to collapse of first storey. The four to five employee of the bar were engaged in routine work when the building collapsed. One of the four trapped in the debris managed to climb up and broke the wall glass panel open to ask for help when the rescue personnel rescued him.
 
 
