BENGALURU: The much-touted   on two-stroke autorickshaws slated to come into effect on April 1 is likely to be deferred. The reason: Only two drivers have come forward to seek cancellation of registration certificates (RCs).

  
 
  officials confirmed they have received only one request each for cancellation of RCs at   and Rajajinagar RTOs.
 
 According to the procedure, drivers have to submit RC cancellation letters along with their   to the government-authorized scrap centre. After the centre issues a scrap certificate, the government will transfer a subsidy of Rs 30,000 to the driver’s bank account for buying a new four-stroke auto or electric auto from any dealer.
 
 The city has around 20,000 two-stroke autos. In the 2017-18 budget, the government allocated Rs 30 crore to provide the subsidy to owners of two-stroke autos who want to buy four-stroke LPG ones. The aim was to phase out two-stroke autos to reduce air and sound pollution. However, auto drivers say the amount is inadequate to buy a new vehicle that costs nearly Rs 1.7 lakh.
 
 Transport department officials said they have recommended to the finance department to increase the subsidy amount to Rs 50,000 but are yet to get its nod. “Owners can either buy new four-stroke autos or convert the old ones into electric autos,” said a senior transport official said. However, auto drivers say retrofitting existing two-stroke autos is not feasible as it costs Rs 1.10 lakh for conversion.
 
 Earlier, drivers used to sell their vehicles for Rs 40,000-Rs 50,000 outside Bengaluru, which would fetch them more than the subsidy amount. But now, they can’t do so as they won’t get fresh permits to ply in the city. “It will take nearly a month to get a new vehicle once the old auto is scrapped. Who will sustain our family during the period,” asked Manjunath, a two-stroke auto driver.
 
 C Sampath, general secretary of Adarsh Autorickshaw Drivers’ Union, said, “The subsidy of Rs 30,000 is inadequate. The government should increase the amount to at least Rs 50,000 and simplify the procedure.”
 
 Registration of two-stroke autos was stopped in 2005 but they still ply across the city, often running on adulterated fuel and polluting the environment.
 
