PUNE : A high-powered   under chief minister   is soon expected to authorize district collector Saurabh Rao to start the negotiation process with villagers for the proposed airport at Purandar and issue a notification giving details of land and survey numbers to be acquired for it.

 A source in the state government said that the meeting of the committee was likely to be held next week because the chief minister was in Davos for the World Economic Forum. He said the clearance for the work to commence could come in the first week of February. The ministry of defence ( MoD) issued a letter to   ( ) on Tuesday, giving clearance to the proposed Purandar airport with some riders. (See graphic)
 
 The committee will have to issue a formal authorization to the Pune district collector to start the negotiations with the villagers and take other initiatives. 
 
  
 “I have requested the state government to give me the formal authorization so that the process can be initiated and completed within the next six to eight months,” Rao told TOI.
 
 He said once the notification specifying the boundaries was issued, a social impact assessment would be conducted through research organizations such as   or the economics department of University of Pune. He also demanded deputy collectors for the villages where land would be acquired. 
 
 He said a separate notification would be issued on the alternative land parcel to be given at Phaltan at Sakharwadi by the government although in-principle approvals were given for the alternative models. Claiming that they were aware of MADC receiving the letter from MoD, landowners of Purandar taluka stressed they would continue with their protest against the acquisition. 
 
 “We will be going to the court against MADC and the state government. The airport cannot come up at Purandar because we are not ready to give our plots,” Datta Dhurange, the president of the Vimantal Viroshi Sangharsh Samiti, told TOI. 
 
 Seven villages — Kumbharvan, Vanpuri, Udachiwwadi, Ekhatpur, Manjauri, Khanauri and Pargaon — are likely to be affected by the airport project.
 
 
