MUMBAI: Lack of infrastructure continues to be a problem in government   across the state, found a recent   by Child Rights and You (CRY), and its partners. It also found that in 69% of 122 government schools, teachers and/or students were cleaning   and 57% did not have a full-time head.

 Bal Hakk Abhiyan, an alliance of organizations and individuals working for children, conducted the survey to understand ground realities following the government’s decision to shift students from 1,300 schools in the state. “In 2010, when the Right to Education Act was implemented, the government had promised to fulfil 10 infrastructure requirements prescribed. But that hasn’t been done and due to this, the quality of education is affected in state schools. Now, the government is shutting down schools for lack of quality,” said Bal Hakk Abhiyan member B P Suryavanshi.
 
 The survey found that 13% of schools did not have a sturdy building and 37% did not have a compound wall. Playgrounds and water filters were missing at 34% and 63% schools respectively. “Even if infrastructure like computers is in place at most schools, there isn’t electricity. Teacher training is done only for a few who are then expected to pass on the information to a larger group. This way, the quality in schools will not improve,” said Suryavanshi.
 
 Among the eight Mumbai schools that were part of the survey, it found only one had a water filter, libraries were missing in all and students were more irregular than other parts of the state.
 
 CRY and Bal Hakk Abhiyan have demanded that the government undertake a similar study across all schools in   to ascertain the status of compliance of RTE indicators. “There should be an annual exercise to track progress of compliance through school management committees and local authorities and the post of school heads should be filled at the earliest,” said Sudhakar Kshirsagar of the alliance.
 
 School education minister Vinod Tawde, however, said that 96% of over one lakh schools in the state had met RTE requirements. “The schools are not shut down but shifted, and most of them had met infrastructure requirements. So there is no way to link enrolments to infrastructure. While we think the findings are not presenting the real picture, we will probe the matter once it is submitted to us,” he said. 
 
 
