BENGALURU: With   fast approaching, the   has decided to organize a   and people with disabilities as  . Called   (quick registration), the drive will be held on April 8 at all designated polling stations in the state.

 “The special one-day camp will be organized from 10am to 5pm this Sunday,” Karnataka chief electoral officer (CEO) Sanjiv Kumar told reporters on Monday.
 
 The office is launching a two-week special summary revision — an exercise to check the accuracy of electoral rolls and give citizens another chance to register as voters or get corrections made. “Electoral rolls were published on February 28. However, the last date for applying has been extended to April 14, giving people another chance to enrol. Anyone applying after that can’t vote in the May 12 elections,’’ Kumar said.
 
 Make sure your name is in voters’ list
 
 Every election, many voters return home disappointed after they find their names missing from the electoral rolls. Many such complaints were received from across the state during the previous assembly and Lok Sabha polls. “Just having a voter ID doesn’t entitle you to vote. This is a chance for people to check if the voters’ list contains their names,” said Kumar.
 
 Kumar said about 1.7 lakh newly enrolled voters will soon receive electronic photo identity cards (EPICs) from election officials at their doorstep. New voters who register by April 14 will get their EPICs by April 21, he added.
 
 Seizures so far
 
 The Election Commission’s surveillance and flying squads have seized 2.4 kg gold jewellery in poll-bound Karnataka. “The squads have seized Rs 4.9 crore in cash, 409 litres of liquor and 550 saris since March 27 when the model code of conduct came into force. An FIR has been lodged for misuse of a government vehicle, three for loudspeaker violations and seven for voter inducement. A total of 1,156 flying squads and 1,255 surveillance teams have been deployed in the state, and 4,957 arms have been deposited with officials.
 
