PATNA:   and Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) chief   on Monday asked   and leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav to declare former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi as the CM candidate of the grand alliance in the 2020 assembly election.   also maintained that CM Nitish Kumar and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi could not be called communal.

 Paswan made the observations in the backdrop of the resurgence of pro-dalit agitations following the April 2 ‘Bharat bandh’ organized by the dalit outfits that the opposition parties, including Congress and RJD also supported. The opposition had also assailed CM Nitish for the communal clashes in several districts last month.
 
 “If Tejashwi has so much love and affinity for dalits, he should declare Manjhi as the CM candidate of the grand alliance,” Paswan said.
 
 He said Nitish has shown his affection for the dalits by making Manjhi the CM of the state. Paswan also attacked RJD president Lalu Prasad on the dalit issue and said Lalu did not pay heed to his advice after the February 2005 assembly election to make either a dalit or a Muslim the CM. “As a result, his (Lalu’s) fall started after that,” Paswan said.
 
 Countering the opposition’s attack on CM and deputy CM for failing to prevent communal tension and violence in at least eight districts, Paswan said, “They (Nitish and Modi) cannot be called communal. They are the products of the movement that Jayaprakash Narayan (JP) led.”
 
 Paswan also attacked Congress and its president Rahul Gandhi for their expression of dalit concerns. “What the Congress could not do in 48 years to give legal protection to dalits against atrocities committed on them, PM Narendra Modi has done in the last 48 months,” he said.
 
 “It is the central government led by the then PM V P Singh, which brought in the SC/ST (Protection against atrocities) Act in 1989. The government of PM Modi has added further teeth to it by making other issues of atrocities on them as legal offence,” Paswan said, adding it was the LJP that first filed a review petition in the Supreme Court against its order that has diluted the 1989 Act and later the central government also did the same. 
 
 
