In order to tackle the crime rate in the city, Gurgaon residents have taken matters into their own hands. In order to ensure that people are trained enough to keep themselves safe, many RWAs in Gurgaon have started hosting self-defence classes. Residents’ organisations in Tatvam Villas,  , Essel Towers, Sector 51, Sector 56, Park Place and DLF Phase IV, among others have conducted these classes, which are open for all the residents. Self-defence trainers are invited to these societies, where they teach residents how to deal with instances of theft, robbery or molestation.

  “We think that nothing bad will ever happen to us and avoid taking precaution, or we keep blaming others for our safety. The best way to feel safe is to prepare ourselves to face the danger,” says Manisha Kaushik, Essel Tower resident and organiser of a self-defence session. “When I suggested having this session, I got a positive response from the RWA and neighbours,” she adds.
 
 
 
  
  
 
  The RWAs are also contacting NGOs that deal with women’s safety issues and provide classes or trainers for self-defence. Some organisations have also connected with the Haryana Police for demonstration and initial introduction to self-defence techniques.
 
  
 Self-defence trainers and organisers say the number of queries they get has increased, with residents requesting for introductory sessions in residential societies. “Many societies have taken steps to help residents fight back. We conduct these sessions free of cost and have received about 15-17 queries in the past one-and-a-half months. We go to societies with demonstration material and also make attendees practice some techniques,” says Veena Gupta, self-defence trainer and founder of Women Empowerment Safety & Security Foundation (WESS). WESS has conducted eight sessions in the last month in localities like, Tatvam Villas, Sector 56, Essel Towers and others.
 
  
  
 
  “We have received about 10 queries last month for conducting sessions at various localities in Gurgaon. In today’s scenario, it is important to be able to ensure one’s safety. We have organised workshops in four localities last month. We charge a minimal fee depending on the locality,” says Anamika, who owns a self-defence training academy.
 
  
 The organisers say that though one session is not enough, it is a good way to introduce the concept. “These are like induction classes. The sessions are held within the society so more people participate and develop an interest,” says Tapasya, who organised a class in Tulip Garden.
 
  Prerna, who organised a session at Tatvam Villas, says, “We organised the session with support from the RWA. I am sure that when parents saw their kids learning how to fight back, it would have inspired them to enroll the kids for more classes. I read about the campaign, Meri Suraksha Meri Zimmedari, and thought I must do this for my society.”
 
  
  From contacting NGOs to asking Haryana Police to take classes, Gurgaon societies are doing every bit to ensure that women stay safe in the city
 
  “We cannot sit and wait for others to take action for us. Self-defence teaches us to be self-sufficient. Many techniques they teach in these classes are not strength-based, which means anyone can learn to master them,” says Komal, a DLF Phase IV resident who organised a session in her society.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Organisers of self-defence workshops say that each introductory session is attended by 30-40 people. “The attendance can vary as per the locality, and the reach of the resident organiser. But around 40 people turn up for most of these workshops. The classes are usually held over the weekend,” says Veena.
 
 
  
  AGE NO BAR: An elderly woman learns self-defence techniques at the session
 
  Residents are informed about the sessions through WhatsApp groups and social media. “When I found out about the session, I was initially sceptical due to my age. But the organiser explained the importance of attending the session, and said that it is more about technique than strength. Now, after attending the session, I feel it was worth waking up early for,” says Suhaylah Sheikh, an Essel Tower resident.
 
  
  Fast learner
 
  “It is good to have such sessions in our locality. I was worried about my safety, but never really thought about taking self-defence classes. After attending one session and learning the basic techniques, I already feel safer,” says Nidhi Arora from DLF Phase IV.
 
  “I took my children for one session. I want them to develop interest in self-defence and I will train them further with regular classes,” says Apeksha from Sector 56.
 
 
  
  The training session at Tulip Orange
 
  In many societies, after the first session, residents have enquired about more sessions. “I approached Veena after the first workshop in our locality. My kids and wife were keen to train further. I have formed a group in the society and have asked WESS to come over the weekends and take more classes,” says Sanjay Bohra, a Tulip Garden resident.
 
  “I have formed a group with my friends and have signed up for self-defence classes,” says Neha Jain, a Sector 56 resident.
 
  -- Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
