Nagpur: A panel constituted under divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar for finding solutions for parking and traffic problems in the city, met on Saturday, where participants came out with many suggestions.

 The government submitted minutes of the meeting in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Monday, as directed by the HC while hearing a suo motu PIL (No. 5/2016) where it had taken cognisance of a fatal accident involving a 15-year-old boy who dashed off against a middle aged woman and suffered serious head injuries. Deputy commissioner from the general administration department, Sanjay Dhiware, sought 15 days to properly submit comprehensive report in this regard, which was granted.
 
 Kumar directed all the participants from various departments to prepare blueprint of long and short term proposals regarding their respective suggestions and submit it with the amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar for further consideration. 
 
 He also directed all concerned departments like traffic police, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), MSRTC, Indian Railways, NHAI, city police, collectorate and others to submit an action taken report (ATR) to him before February 12, when next meeting was scheduled.
 
 One of the suggestions was to demolish the   in front of a railway station and shift the MP Bus Stand to other place for easing traffic congestion on that stretch. Those came from Central Railway’s senior divisional engineer Pawan Patil who also demanded to stop the traffic from flyover from directly going on Ram Jhula bridge through Jaistambh Square. 
 
 The divisional commissioner directed authorities to constitute a squad comprising a police inspector, RTO officer and NMC ward officer for inspecting the students coming to coaching classes on whether they carry licenses for two wheelers and engine capacity of their vehicles. He informed that most of students don’t carry license, neither wear the protective gear and violate the traffic rules at will. He asked authorities to inform on action taken after they had earlier issued notices to coaching classes owners in this regard.
 
 He further directed to form a squad consisting of supervisor from school/college, RTO officer and from the transport department to conduct surprise visits to the schools and colleges for checking menace of teenagers driving vehicles without licenses. He asked the squad to submit the report in court.
 
 Deputy director of education in Nagpur, Anil Pardhi, demanded to stop students from bringing vehicles in schools and colleges. He also demanded to initiate action against all principals of schools and college, if their students found to be driving vehicles without license.
 
 Citing report prepared by former DCP (Traffic) Ravindra Pardesi, his successor Chaitanya S informed that bus depots at Ganeshpeth and Mor Bhavan should be shifted outside the city for removing congestion in busy areas. He also suggested that private travels should operate from Transport Plaza near Pili River.
 
 NMC officer Gajendra Mahalle informed that for catching stray animals roaming on roads, they had started works in ten zones and deployed a vehicle to catch them. 
 
 Kumar expressed concern over minors increasingly getting addicted towards the drinking and directed the RTO to cancel licenses of offenders.
 
 He asked RTO to deploy special teams to check this menace on Amravati road.
 
 
