GREATER NOIDA: Two youths were killed and a 30-year-old was injured when a dumper  , reversing his vehicle with his earphones on, ran over them at a construction site of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway in   on Monday.

 The victims, Sandeep (19) and Sohail (18), worked as labourers to a contractor hired by the Jaypee group. The accident took place at 12pm when the two were riding a bike. The injured, Sajid (30), was standing next to them. 
 
 “Sajid was standing right next to a bike carrying the youths and he tried to stop the dumper by shouting at the driver. However, the driver couldn’t hear as he had the earphones on. Sajid got injured when he tried to stop the vehicle,” Amit Singh, a worker at the site, told TOI. 
 
 Sajid is recuperating in a private hospital in Ghaziabad.
 
 Singh said the driver tried to flee with the dumper but was stopped by other workers. 
 
 As the news spread, people from nearby villages of Bambawad, Khatana and the two villages where Sandeep and Sohail belonged to — Ghaziabad’s Dadupur and Hapur’s Dehra — flocked to the spot and protested against the contractor and the National Highways Authority of India.
 
 The villagers demanded that the agency given the contract — BS Constructions — and officials of the Jaypee group and NHAI reach the spot.
 
 Meanwhile, personnel from   and Bisrakh police stations and SDM, Dadri, Amit Kumar Singh arrived.
 
 The villagers refused to allow the bodies to be taken for post-mortem and protested while keeping the bodies on the ground. They demanded compensation for the families.
 
 Nobody from the contractor’s side or Jaypee arrived at the spot till 4pm, which angered the 400 -odd villagers. Later, it took over an hour for the SDM and the Jaypee officials to decide on the compensation as the villagers demanded Rs 18 lakh each for the families.
 
 As the officials refused, the villagers hurled stones at the dumpers in the spot. Attempts were made to set the dumpers on fire, but the officials stopped the villagers.
 
 “It has been over four hours that we are waiting here for anyone to speak to grieving families. The contractor has not even shown his face and Jaypee officials are dilly-dallying on the compensation,” said a villager from Dadupur.
 
 Later, Rs 50,000 were handed over to each of the families with an assurance to provide cheques for the remaining Rs 17.5 lakh on February 15.
 
 RK Sharma, chief manager (human resources) of the Jaypee group, said the accident showed negligence on the part of the driver and they would probe how such drivers were employed by the contractor. 
 
 Mukesh Singh, SHO, Badalpur, said an FIR had been registered against the truck driver under sections 304a (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 279 (rash driving) and 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC.
 
 The bodies were eventually sent for post-mortem around 5.30pm.
 
 
