AHMEDABAD: Inspired by  , two brothers — Dipesh Jani (27) and Aditya (21) — from Veraval and residents of   and their school friend Satish Chauhan (24), a   and presently living in Bopal, took on to crime.

 They reportedly learnt the tricks of misguiding cops by watching crime serials. Although having a diploma in engineering, Aditya chose the crime route to be wealthy and supported his elder brother Dipesh, who already had a criminal history.
 
 The three have been arrested by the city crime branch for robbing taxis after hiring them through telephonic helplines. “The shock came later as the cops discovered that the trio had even murdered a taxi driver Digvijaysinh Vihol (28) of Gandhinagar with hammer, knives and wooden logs and fled with his new MUV.
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police, Rajdeepsinh Jhala, said the trio is involved in three such crimes of taxi robbery. “In November 2017, the accused with similar modus operandi had booked a taxi for Mumbai. However near Daman, just as the driver got out of the vehicle at a highway hotel, they sped away with the taxi. In 2015, Dipesh had similarly robbed a taxi after booking a tour to Ujjain,” added Jhala. Inspector J N Chavda of crime branch said that the trio decided to kill the driver to leave no clue. “They booked a taxi of one Vijaysinh Vaghela of Gandhinagar through telephonic helpline, using a dummy sim card. As part of the plan, the trio met near Rajhans Cinema on January 23 and first purchased a hammer and a wooden log used as handle in a spade from a hardware shop,” added Chavda.
 
 The trio boarded the taxi at about 6pm and on the way bought beer tins from near Khedbrahma. “They also made the driver have beer to intoxicate him. Then Chauhan sprayed chilli powder in the eyes of the driver. But the driver put a strong defence which was not anticipated by the accused. Immediately, Dipesh struck hammer on the head of the driver and Aditya stabbed him multiple times. They disposed of the driver’s body under a bridge and sped away,” Chavda said.
 
 Then to misguide the police, the accused went to Nathdwara in Rajasthan and then called up on the cellphone of the driver. “They immediately left Nathdwara. Dipesh and Chauhan came back to the city while Aditya drove to Surat with the MUV in a bid to sell it off but he could not,” added a crime branch official.
 
 
