MATHURA: Life has literally become meaningless for Mathura based   (17) and his younger sister   (14). Till March last year, both Rahul and Deepa were just like other teenagers from middle class families, dreaming big and making lofty plans about their lives and careers.

 But 11 months later, all their dreams have been shattered and all they think now is how each day will pass for them. On intervening night of 8-9 March, their parents, Banwarilal and Ravibala, were bludgeoned to death.
 
 The murder sparked a public outrage, forcing politicians to make a beeline at their homes and promising them justice and help. Even the administration became hyperactive, made tall claims of cracking the case within 15 days and getting the guilty to book.
 
 For both Rahul and Deepa, the death of their parents was a major loss but they had some consolation that their “didi”, Rakhi (20), was still by their side to take care and console them. However, in October Rakhi was driven to suicide by the alleged lackadaisical attitude of the police, which failed to trace their parents’ killers.
 
 Rakhi had been relentlessly pursuing the case but the general apathy of the police and the administration frustrated her, forcing her to end her life. The death of their “loving didi”, shattered both Rahul and Deepa, who admit that they sometimes think why the two of them are alive. “Papa, mummy and didi have gone… why are we here”, they told TOI, with tears rolling down their eyes.
 
 The two live a life of recluse with their 90-year-old grandmother,  , who has witnessed the death of all her three sons. “I’m perhaps alive for these kids”, she said adding that it would have been better if god had taken her away rather than her son, daughter-in-law and granddaughter.
 
 Talking to TOI Rahul said that their schools had waived off their fees on humanitarian grounds and some kind neighbours had been helping them to make their ends meet. He said the state government had given them a compensation of Rs 5 lakhs but that won’t last for ever.
 
 He also rued the fact that despite his sister giving up her life, their parents’ killers were still roaming around free even after 11 months. “They not only killed my parent but also my sister”, he said adding that he had no hope of getting justice.
 
 Rahul, who is doing his 12th from SG Public School, said that he is in a hurry to finish his studies so that he can start earning. “When papa was alive, he used to drive his own truck and we had enough. But now everything is gone and I have to take care of my sister and dadi”, he said adding that he has given up his dream to go to college and for higher studies. 
 
 Rahul said that his father always wanted that he and his sister should go for higher studies. “Agar me padhai karunga to ghar kaise chalega… kaun humare roj ke kharche uthayega” (If I keep studying, who will take care of us and how will we meet our expenses).
 
 He admitted that he still doesn’t know what work he will do after completing his 12th. “Koi kaam to mill jayega, ki humara guzaara chal jaye (will get some work to manage our affairs)”, he said. “We don’t have a penny to buy stuff of our choice,” said Rahul adding that things were different when papa was alive.
 
 His sister, Deepa starts crying whenever there is a mention about their parents or sister. She said, “papa hume   nahi dete the par jab bhi paise mangte to de dete the… mana nahi karte the” (my father never refused to give us money and used to give us whatever we demanded .. though we didn’t get any pocket money). 
 
 Deepa, who is studying in class Xth and is the youngest in the family told TOI, “didi ki bhut yaad aati hai…. Woh padhai me bhi madad karti thi aur bhut pyar bhi” (I miss my sister a lot… she used to help me in my studies and also love us a lot).
 
 Both these kids have no idea what more life has in store for them. Survival is the only challenge for them. 
 
 Their elder cousin sister, Rano, who now lives with them said, “I had started living in their house after uncle-aunty’s murder. However, after Rakhi took charge, I went back”.
 
 She said that after Rakhi’s demise, she had no choice but to return and pitch in as Munni Devi cannot handle the daily chores of the house. 
 
 Munni devi said, “teen ladke the sab chale gaye.. poti bhi chali gaye… ab hum hi bache hai… pata nahi aur kya dekhna baki hai” (All three sons had died… grand-daughter has also gone.. died… god knows what I have to see now). 
 
 While the family has lost hope of getting any justice, SSP Mathura,  , told TOI that investigations are still going on. He said that few names of suspects had cropped up and their polygraph tests are being conducted to get to the bottom of the case.
 
