Popular television serial  , which is being telecast on Vijay TV, saw a change in their cast when   and   announced their exit from the show. When we spoke to Sameera, she had alleged, “There were several complaints of groupism. Some of our co-artistes were talking behind our backs that we were influencing the writer, the channel and the producer to give us more screen space. Even though we didn’t influence anyone, we were taking the blame for it.”   had added, “It is better to stay away from such negativity than work in such an atmosphere.” 

 But this comment of theirs hasn’t gone down well with their co-artistes. The team, which reached out to us, asserts that there was no groupism or negativity on the set.   Bala Nandakumar, who plays the other female lead in the serial, says, “Sameera and I were friends when we first started working together. Their part had a mix of both, happy and sad scenes, but ours (  Karthick plays Soundarya’s pair in the serial) had only happy scenes. They can’t claim that they were responsible for the TRPs of the show as all other artistes who have been working on the show deserve credit for it,too ” she says. 
 
 But Soundarya admits that she did speak to the show’s writers about their screen space. “I am a singer, too, and Vignesh has other acting commitments. I was worried that they weren’t giving us enough screen time since we were held up with other things. When I casually asked the team, they asked us to wait for the story to unfold naturally. For that matter, I was even sharing this with Anwar when I went through this phase. He was the one who asked me not to worry as such things are bound to happen. Eventually, we also got good screen space,” she says.
 
  
 Soundarya also adds that Anwar and she had a fallout due to personal issues. “We had some personal issues and we stopped talking to each other. Right after this, he informed the team that he wouldn’t do any scenes with me henceforth. I didn’t have any issues working with the two of them as I keep my personal problems away from my profession. There was no groupism. They were the ones who decided to stay away. When you have made your choice to be away from the crew, how can you say that there was groupism?” she asks.
 
 Senior artiste Sharmila, who plays Anwar’s mother in the serial, is also upset about their comment. She says, “They have raised this ‘groupism’ complaint and it is disheartening to read it, as there was no such thing. We were all together as a family, which only exuded positivity. They maintain a respectable distance, though. I didn’t have any issues with them. If they had any differences, they could have spoken to us and sorted the issue out. When I learnt that they had decided to opt out, I spoke to them regarding their decision. They didn’t sort the issues out with the team, so now, they can’t make some generalised statements like groupism and negativity.” 
  
 Actress Sindhu Shyam, who plays a major role in the serial, adds, “The team of Pagal Nilavu is one of the best I have worked with. Differences of opinion are bound to happen anywhere. Instead of opting out and telling people that there was negativity,   and Anwar should have sorted things out with the concerned persons. And there was never a moment when we cornered them. Nobody would do such a thing. We are friendly as a team — then and now.”
  
 On the delay in planning and timings, Soundarya says, “So many people are involved in bringing out a production and delays do happen. Wouldn’t it happen in any working environment? This was not a plot against them.” 
 Sharmila adds, “Both of them are into production and they must know how difficult it is to run a show. Delays happen in any industry. I have been in the industry for 25 years. We adjust when such delays happen, as we know people are not doing it deliberately. Radhika ma’am and Ramya Krishnan ma’am have been doing television for so many years now. Do they complain saying they won’t work for an extra hour? Sameera and Anwar are sweet people, too, but I didn’t expect this from them.”
 
 One of the producers, Bhuvana, says, “Ganesh (co-producer) and I are hurt by their comments. We compromised a lot for them and helped sort their issues out as much as we could. We’ve never had any issues on the set and have treated our artistes well. I don’t know what prompted them to say such things. We couldn’t have achieved the 500-episode mark if there had been negativity or groupism. All we want to say now is that we will make this serial a success.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
