BHOPAL: In the middle of a crackdown by police against habitual offenders involved in crimes against women and goons, a 21-year-old girl studying at a coaching institute in MP Nagar area of   was on Saturday abducted in broad daylight, taken to a room and gang raped by the accused and his friend.

 
  
  
 
 Police said the main accused identified as Shailendra Singh is an MBA and had studied with the survivor in the past.
 
 Incensed by the rise in number of crime cases against women in the state, chief minister   had last week issued an ultimatum to the cops and asked them to perform or perish.
 
  
  
 
 After the chief minister’s ultimatum police are acting against history-sheeters in a bid to instill sense of security among the public. But, it appears to be an eyewash and a points to the growing audacity of criminals who do not care about the men in khaki.
 
 The incident took place barely five months after public outrage over a coaching student’s gang rape by four slum dwellers near the Railway tracks in the commercial zone of Bhopal shocked the city. The spot from where the survivor was kidnapped is hardly a km from the spot where UPSC aspirant was gang raped on October 31.
 
 
  
  
 
 Police have arrested four accused on charges of abduction and rape and paraded them in public late on Sunday evening. Key accused in the case Shailendra lives in Misrod area of the city.
 
 CSP Govindpura   said that the survivor, 21, a resident of Misrod locality, in her complaint to police stated that she has completed her B Sc (Computer Science) and is presently preparing for banking competitive exams from a coaching centre in MP Nagar Zone I.
 
 She told police that she went to the coaching institute in Zone-I of MP Nagar near a famous restaurant on Saturday and came out after her class ended at 11.30 am.
 
  
  
 
 By the time she climbed down the stairs her classmate in college Shailendra Singh, 21, a resident of Bhairopur Misrod, was already waiting for her. He approached her and asked her to sit on his bike. When she refused to go with him, he snatched her mobile phone. While pleading with him to return her phone, he forced her to sit on his bike and drove away some 3kms to a friend’s room near  .
 
 In the room, Shailendra’s three friends Dheeraj Rajput, 26, a resident of Samardha Misrod, Sonu Dangi, 21, a resident of   in   and Chiman Rajput, 25, a resident of Samardha Misrod, were already present.
 
 As soon as she entered the room, Sahilendra slapped her few times in front of his friends and smashed her head on a wall. She got terrified and was shocked. She pleaded to Shailendra to return her mobile and let her go home. Her pleas fell on deaf ears. Shailendra and Dheeraj again hit her and they removed her clothes and the two raped her taking turns. Chiman stood in the room and watched while Sonu went out of the room to guard.
 
 After the incident, the accused threatened her they would kill her and her family if she told about the incident to anyone. Around 1.30 pm they allowed her to return home. Initially, the terrified girl kept mum. but later she broke down and narrated the incident to her parents. Her parents approached the MP Nagar police station on Sunday and filed a complaint.
 
 CSP Mishra said that MP Nagar police registered a case and arrested the accused within hours after receiving the complaint. The accused have been charged under Section 376, 376D, 365, 342, 506, 323 and 34 of IPC.
 
 The accused were paraded in public on Sunday evening from the MP Nagar police station to Board Office Square-Jyoti Talkies and back. The angry locals and cops beat up the accused on the way. They were made to squat on the road and swear not to commit such a crime in future.\
 
 
 
 
