Soaring heat calls for a décor that spells comfort, calm and clutter-free look. Here’s what to do to transform your home into a summer getaway.

 With temperature heading north and scorching heat spells gripping the city, dry and arid sights are common. While we all look for shaded, well ventilated and cool environs when outside, at home, it is important to use the right summer décor that can help us breathe easy in the hot and humid months.
 
 From light, soothing colours to pleasant motifs, and breathing accessories, home décor should spell comfort during the summer months. With a host of options available in the market today, one often feels spoilt for choice. One just needs to pick the right materials and colours to bring in a sense of cool in otherwise hot environs.
 
 
 “During summer months, one prefers homes that are airy and cool. Open and well-ventilated rooms give a feeling of openness and a sense of calm. Equally important is the choice of colours and motifs in home décor. Go for natural shades and earthy patterns to bring in natural elements. In terms of accessories, smaller décor pieces that don’t give a cluttered look to the room should be picked up,” suggests a freelance   and landscape designer.
 
 The role of colours cannot be defied in summer décor. Smita S, a colourologist, explains the reason, “Colours have a deep impact on our lives. When used right, they can have a lasting impact on our mind, body and soul. They also have an ability to make or break the look of a home. That’s why in places of extreme heat, you would see a lot of white and blue; these colours don’t radiate heat and thus have a soothing effect. During the summer months, try and incorporate neutral and lighter shades in home interiors.”
 
 As far as fabrics are concerned, go for light, earthy fabrics that are either sheer (for curtains) or have natural look and feel to them. Talking about other décor elements, Sumanta Ghosh of a leading design firm, adds, “Summer décor also incorporates the use of right wallpapers and accessories. With the right choice of patterns and motifs, one can just give a new seasonal look to the interiors. Use a lot of floral and spring-centric prints and motifs as these add to the beauty of a room and give a happy feel.”
 
 With these doable changes, you can actually make your home summer ready in just no time!
 
 
