Kolkata: Change, they say, is inevitable, but never before has so much changed in so little time. And the city itself is changing... from the skyline to the people who live in it. With it, a number of professions common even 20 years ago are going the way of all flesh. Here’s a list of a few trades that are in danger of dying out in the next few years

 Rangrez | live & let dye
 
 If you take a walk near the Nakhoda Masjid in central Kolkata, you’ll find miles and miles of cotton yarn, dyed in bright colours and hanging on terraces to dry. This is the world of Rangrez, a Marwari-Muslim community, which literally dyes for a living. Today, there are just 3,000 of them in Kolkata, and even fewer practitioners of their traditional craft. Most of them have shifted to factories, where the precision of machines have long washed away the romantic hues of hand-dyeing in tubs.
 
 Mohd Salim, owner of Mohd Salim Dye on Ratu Sarkar Lane, still uses the traditional method to dye peelas (dupattas), laces, yarns and old clothes. When we meet him at 11 in the morning, he’s busy dyeing yarn in a small shabby courtyard of his home-cum-workshop. Salim’s father came to Kolkata from Rajasthan in 1939 in search of fortune and established their traditional business of dyeing here. 
 
 Mechanization has dealt a death blow to his craft. “There were days when we used to work day and night to deliver orders to our client,” Salim reminisces. “Nowadays, business is not the same. More and more work is done in factories and imported Chinese fabric in different hues are flooding the market.”
 
 “A few shops and families still give us work, but mainly during the festive season. Many workshops have been shut down as it is difficult to bear the daily expenses. None of my sons has come into this business, and it has become almost impossible to sustain a family through this,” Salim says.
 
 Typewriter repairer | inked out
 
 You could walk into any office, and you would hear them long before you saw them: the clickety-clack of typewriter keys being furiously punched was ubiquitous until the 90s, when computers took over. Today, there are a few typists in some pockets of Kolkata — near the high court, on Mirzapur Street, the Shyambazar 5-point crossing and College Street. As expected, their business has taken a hit. “The flow of work is not as it used to be,” says Bijoy Debnath, typist at Joy Maa Enterprise on Mirzapur Street. “But typists are still required for preparing legal papers, and as long as typists are required, we will eke out a survival.” But there’s a real problem when typewriters stop functioning. There is a dearth of typewriter repairers, with only a handful still in business in the city. One such typewriter repairer is Joydeb Mullick. The 62-year-old man has a small shop on Waterloo Street. “I have been in this business for 37 years. Previously, I used to get Rs 10,000 by selling a typewriter. Now, I sit here the whole day wondering when I will be able to sell a machine and get Rs 2,500,” he says. For repairs, he gets just about Rs 50 or Rs 100, that too, very rarely.
 
 Clock repairer | ticking away
 
 Chances are, you have one in your neighbourhood, or maybe you walk past one on your way to work: a shop with a few clocks on the shelves, wind-up alarm clocks scattered in a dusty showcase, maybe even a couple of grandfather clocks that have maybe seen better days, and a person — who definitely has seen better days — whiling away the time. These clock-repairing shops were once in huge demand, but now that people have stopped using analogue watches and clocks, their time is all but up. “Nowadays, we are at most asked to change batteries, but even that number has fallen because people just use and throw. No one wants to get clocks repaired,” says Khokon Basak of Basak & Co on Nimtala Ghat Street. The 75-year-old, sitting inside his cubbyhole shop in a rundown building, says he opens his shop daily, as a matter of routine, to pass the time. His shop has several old, analogue watches that he has kept for himself out of nostalgia for the “good old times”.
 
 Bhisti | drowning out
 
 When we meet M D Asgar at 4pm near Mirza Ghalib Street, near New Market, he is very busy and has no time for us. But at 11am the next day somewhere in the underbelly of Market Street, he is busy preparing lunch in a tiny room shared by four other bhistis. Several goatskin bags, called mashaks, hang outside the room. Asgar, Rahman, Alam Hussain, Shafiq Minar and Mohsin are members of the fast-vanishing tribe of bhistis, who were once an indispensable part of Kolkata’s water supply.
 
 Rahman says he has been doing his job since he was 16. He still delivers water to about 15 families, who live near New Market. Mohsin, who has been delivering water for 20 years, says there were 100 bhistis not too long ago, but there are just 15 now. “The average monthly income is Rs 6,000, and we can’t save more than Rs 1,000. With this money, it’s impossible to support a family, so it’s no wonder most bhistis have left,” he says.
 
 Poster-maker | off the wall
 
 Till the late 90s, cinema and jatra posters used to be hand-drawn. Poster-making was a huge business, but this art has vanished totally, with the rise of digital printing. Artist Tapan Srimani is one such artist who used to draw posters and banners for all films in the 1970s, right up to the 90s. “We had a monopoly. My workshop was open day and night as there was so much work. My posters were displayed at all cinemas of Kolkata as well as the outskirts,” he says. Once, Satyajit Ray had himself visited his workshop at night, and the entire locality had turned up to see him, reminisces the man who has made posters for ‘Ghare Baire’, ‘Ashani Sanket’, ‘Teen Bhubaner Pare’ and ‘Chiriakhana’, among countless others. Ranjit Seal, who used to design sets, banners and posters for jatras, and has worked with the likes of Utpal dutta, Ajitesh Bandopadhyay and other theatre stalwarts, says: “When digital printing came in, I was sure I’d lose my source of income.” Sadly, his fears were not unfounded.
 
 Manual press | just not today’s type
 
 Chitpore, once the hub of lithography, has just one litho press that still functions. Lithography became very popular in the 19th century, but not any more. Jaydeep Guchait, owner of Rabindra Litho, has been running this business for 40 years. When we meet him at his press at 2pm, the antique litho machine, which is more than 100 years old, is still printing posters of some cultural programme. Guchait explains that lithography has lost all its importance due to digital offset printing. Swapan Das, a litho artist, says: “There is hardly any work now, so I have shifted to digital printing. But I don’t refuse any litho work when I get orders,” says litho artist Swapan Das. “It’s a dying business,” says Guchait, “but I’m hoping to get more business ahead of the panchayat elections in May.” It’s the same story for the letterhead presses. Once used for printing even newspapers, and often termed the motor of the Bengal Renaissance, letterhead presses now print just envelopes and bus tickets.
 
 Photo studio | Fading away
 
 Not too long ago, every locality used to have a photo studio. Back when digital photography was unheard of, a studio was where you headed every time you needed to stock up on film rolls before the annual vacation, to get passport-sized shots, and even for the mandatory ‘happy family’ photograph in front of brightly painted Taj Mahal backdrops. “It seems like yesterday when girls wearing saris used to crowd near my studio on Saraswati Puja to get clicked against colourful backgrounds,” says Sanjoy Saha of JMD studio on Ahmerst Street. “Kids, newlyweds used to come to my studio to get clicked on their special days. But all this has come to an end as every household now has smartphones and digital cameras.” Once extremely popular in Kolkata, most studios have been forced out of business. The ones that still remain survive on just passport-sized shots and print-outs. 
 
 Mould-maker | in bad shape
 
 If you walk down Chitpore, near Notun Bazar, you’ll find a few grimy, nondescript shops on either flank. These shops sell moulds used for shaping sandesh. And making these moulds is a fine art in itself. The makers fashion these out of blocks of wood, painstakingly carving minute designs. Sadly, it’s a vanishing art form, as demand has fallen. “Previously, sandesh and other sweets used to be made at home,” says Asim Das, owner of Modern Art & Co, who has been running his business for 60 years. “Now, hardly any people come to buy these sandesh moulds. Our sales are slightly better during Puja and in the wedding season. We also occasionally sell to sweet shops, but it is rare because every shop usually has their exclusive design.” Co-owner Shibnath Das says: “The next generation is not interested in this trade because it doesn’t have a future. Many shops in this area have been closed. We are continuing somehow as we cannot shut our traditional business overnight.”
 
 
