CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu Housing Board ( ) has developed of 534 plots near Singaperumal Kovil in Kancheepuram to begin relocation of automobile spare parts shops, which are considered encroachments, located near the Cooum banks in   and  . 

 More than 300 traders have received notices, for phase I resettlement, saying they will have to move by April but traders say their business will be badly affected if they move to a place far from the city. "When the state is against us what choice do we have. Moving the court is also not an option for us," said  , an automobile workshop owner at Chintadripet. "While most of us have got notices, there are 58 who have not. What will happen to them? No one is clear about the process or how we will make a living there," he added. 
 
  The rehabilitation will be carried out in two phases in   and Thangal Perumal villages which will be developed as Auto Nagar for automobile and spare parts shops. Sources said the eviction is likely to begin after the exam season.
 
 For the first phase of the project 534 plots have been developed with roads, sewerage system, streetlights, and water supply at 12.27 crore. The units will be used to set up auto and spare parts shops. At least 458 identified dealers will be allocated units of 350sqft each to set up shop, of which 300sqft would be free of cost, the remaining area will be charged at 629 per sqft. 
 
 In phase II, 1,199 units will be sold to automobile parts' traders who will be relocate shops to Auto Nagar at 629/sqft, and can choose plots between 200sqft and 700sqft. 
 
 "Preparation of allotment orders for identified encroachers, who will be resettled in Auto Nagar, is underway. Based on the allotments, the Public Works Department will carry out resettlement," said a TNHB official. Officials said the plots are only for commercial purposes, which means traders will have to find their own place to live. "We have identified 1,076 houses on the banks of the Cooum that are encroachments.Families from these houses will be allotted homes at Perumbakkam, from where they can travel to Auto Nagar," an official said.
 
 The total cost of development of the plots under the resettlement project was pegged at 11.39 crore but has now shot up to 19.64 crore. 
 
 
