When the students of class 1, 2 and 3 from   at E   in   took their third term examination a few days ago, they neither had pencil nor answer scripts. Instead they sit the exam with an electronic device similar to a tablet and the exam was done like never before.

 They are the first generation of students from the government schools in   to experience digital learning with a child-friendly pedagogy.   ( ) is implementing the system across the state on a pilot basis in 109 schools.
 
 S Stephen of class 2 was quick to tick answers using the tablet’s touch screen. Be it a poem or story, he had the content in audio visual format in the tablet computer. Digital learning platform was introduced in select schools in January this year and all the textbooks for the third term have been made available in the tablet-based learning.
 
 At the end of each lesson, whether it is a prose or a poem, there will be a QR code. By scanning the QR code, students can experience the audio visual format of the lesson. “Children have fascination for audio visual content and they learn quickly the lessons in the audio visual format,” said H  , headmistress of Panchayat Union Primary School at E Pudur.
 
 The content is now in Tamil medium and soon will be available in English as well. She said, “A total of 12 tablets were given to children and every tab will be used by a group of five children. Three tablets have been given for the teachers. It works both online and offline modes and teacher can transfer contents to the tablets of children by downloading it from the internet.”
 
 Saying that writing is not completely ruled out for children by this technology intervention, she said students have to answer the questions with the tablets for 60 marks and writing part will be of 40 marks. “The new learning pedagogy will also help slow learners and those with learning disabilities. The technology intervention has encouraged many parents to approach the school for admission this year,” Pushpalatha said.
 
 
