It is a truth universally acknowledged that if you put a copy of Jane Austen's 
  beside James Joyce's Ulysses, the former has mighty chances to be picked up by the general reading public. 

  Love matters. It is not just an emotion; love, in recent times, has come to be a big revenue generator, if not a driving life force. With the advent of Valentine's Day and its counterparts, publishers and booksellers are churning it big with new releases on the shelf.
 
  For bibliophiles, the phrase "February is the month of love" may seem too absurd, but when these lovelorn hearts are browsing for an appropriate gift online or visit their favourite stores, what arrests their attention is the shiny new book jacket on the "hot off the press" shelf. And most of them are romances. 
 
  A book might not be specifically related to the Valentine's crowd or tap into their sentiments, but Indian publishers most certainly know how to make the best of every situation. And that is not a bad thing. Actually, quite the contrary. Varying in themes and content, the romance novel has been selling in high numbers and have been quite steady in bringing in the money, along with increasing the ever-growing population of readers in India. 
 
  The romance as a genre has always been popular. A boy-meets-girl story may seem too tattered for an advanced reader, but the same premise has been playing out in numerous novels for hundreds of years. Even today, the public’s appetite for   is stronger than ever. Romance author Maya Rodale explains, while readership for romance novels is constantly expanding, it also remains the most popular and profitable genre written.
 
  Valentine's Day seems like a perfect occasion to release new romance books, especially the ones with already established authors. Popular romance novelist and   author Ravinder Singh says, "Romance, as a genre, will get old the day the human life cycle starts bypassing the young-adulthood stage. Until then, the butterflies in the stomach, the chemical reactions in the brain and god-bless-them those hormones will keep romance in circulation."   has smartly planned the release of Ravinder's new book 
  on February 14, Valentine's Day. Ravinder's readers are loyal and they don't mind sharing a mushy story with their partners. After all, everything but a story is intangible. Ravinder and Penguin are also celebrating the 10-year anniversary of his first book
 , which will feature illustrations of some of the most memorable moments from the book.
 
  Many other publishers have planned the release of their romance titles during this time of the year. Even if the date's not exactly Valentine's Day, that is February 14, the book is released around the month. The main focus is 'love'. Since love is a wider spectrum, it is easier for publishers to focus on 'romance'. But this year Penguin Random House wants its own readers to alter their perspectives towards love and romance. The anthology 
  is a collection of remarkable essays that widen the very frame of reference. Dealing with transgender romance, body image issues, race relations, disability, polyamory, class differences, long-distance love, inter-caste romance and many more, the book seeks to be a tribute to all kinds of love sagas and informs readers of the many facets of love.
 
 The increasing demand for the romance novel is the reason the market is flooded with books on mushy love. This demand is fuelled by pop culture, the internet, and obviously, adolescence. The ground-breaking sale of  , Ravinder Singh, and Nikita Singh's love stories are proof of how the romance as a genre is here to stay. Sara Naveed, author of the bestselling novel 
  says, "The demand for romance novels can never be extinguished. Every reader has a spot corner for romance." She adds, "Romance novels satisfy our wildest fantasies of romance which we may not experience in real life." Perhaps this is one of the major reasons why romance novels sell so much.
 
  Published last year, romance author's Sudeep Nagarkar's 
  did great in the market owing to its theme alone. Set in an elaborate socio-political milieu, though Sudeep's book explores the dark side of relationships, the pursuit of power and the hypocrisy of the powerful, it was marketed as a romance novel.
 
 
  
  
 Write India author Nikita Singh, a 25-year-old romance novelist with ten titles in her kitty, has also scheduled the release of her latest book with HarperCollins, 
 , on this Valentine's Day. HarperCollins is also releasing this month Anjali Kirpalani’s 
 , a romp of a novel set in a college campus, along with 
  by Falguni Kothari. 
 
 On being asked why someone would target the book market on V-Day, Diya Kar Hazra, Publisher fiction and Rights Director at  , said, "Because we publish love stories and because romance sells. Because Valentine’s Day gets bigger every year. Because people read books. And because a good love story will always find readers." 
 
  Joining the bandwagon is Bloomsbury, with their many romance titles to choose from. On December 2017, they released a unique romance anthology titled 
 . Comprising seven stories inspired by Austen’s novels and set in contemporary Pakistan, 
 is a witty and new look at love. The writers, including journalists, editors, lawyers and medical health professionals, are largely based in Pakistan and are all members of the   of Pakistan (JASP), whose founder, Laaleen Sukhera, is editor of this collection. The book sold well and became hugely popular overnight for dealing with romance and the queen of romance, Jane Austen.
 
  Tuhin A. Sinha's 
  is a romance novel that seeks to address the current Kashmir issue. Also a politician, Tuhin wants to bring a fresh take to the issue and let his readers form their own opinion on it. Another book timed around Valentine's Day, the book juggles politics and society veiled as a romance, aptly marketed to meet the readers' demands.
 
  For a long time, Durjoy Datta, Chetan Bhagat and Ravinder Singh would be considered the holy trinity of romance writers. While they must be rightly accounted for the giant popularity of the Indian romance novels, it must also be examined how the new era of authors are swarming in the genre and feeding in to the huge demand of the romance-loving audience.
 
  Seems like we have our hands full this V-Day. If you are looking for the perfect gift for your partner then you can obviously choose from the array of books being released this time of the year promising of love that stays together-forever. Or, if you're single, you would have a book for company. A complete win-win situation, one would say!
 
