LUCKNOW: Garbage collection from homes remains a challenge for Lucknow Municipal Corporation despite its efforts to streamline the process.

 
 LMC had appealed to residents to hire sanitary workers from its partner   and dismiss private ones. It had also revised the charges for garbage collection from doorsteps as part of an elaborate plan to put a system in place.
 
 However, none of that has worked as garbage heaps are piling up in people’s houses and outside as LMC’s collector turns up only once in a while. Frustrated with the irregular attendance, people have again resorted to hiring private sweepers in colonies like Mahanagar,  , Vikasnagar, Aliganj, Janakipuram and Chandganj.
 
 The crisis began a few months ago as Eco-Green’s garbage collectors began quitting jobs or refused to show up. There were two reason for this. Some left their job because the company was unable to pay them salaries while some private sweepers incorporated in Eco-Green’s workforce began avoiding work because of targets given to them. They set out to start garbage collection in invidual capacity.
 
 This resulted in utter confusion in many localities as residents spent days waiting for LMC-authorised collectors even as garbage kept piling in their houses. Many were forced to throw garbage on the road.
 
 SL Singh of sector Q Aliganj, said, “Waste has not been collected from my house for two weeks. We hired LMC’s collector thinking they would be regular but they ditched us midway without any information. We have decided to hire private sweepers now.”
 
 Complaints have also poured in from several colonies of Indiranagar. Residents of sector 11 said garbage collection, which began on January 18, worked smoothly for two months but stopped in March.
 
 “Our earlier system of private sweepers was working fine. At least they showed up for six days a week. This was stopped by LMC which promised better and daily services by Eco-Green for Rs 50 per month. Then the fee doubled but Eco-Green workers disappeared. In block A, collection stopped last month,” said Anita Rastogi.
 
 In Gomtinagar, the situation is worse. Residents of   and Vijay Khand said they had heard that most Eco-Green workers had left their jobs because of payment issues.
 
 In Jankipuram Extension sectors 7 and 8, residents have taken the responsibility to dump waste in their own hands.
 
 “We wrote several letters to LMC to clean up the huge piles of garbage in and around our homes but they never responded. Now, we dispose garbage on vacant plots on the outskirts,” said Anjani Tewari.
 
 An Eco-Green employee said the company was in the process of hiring 90 more workers this month to address the problem.
 
 “Workers are leaving jobs as we are unable to pay them salary because LMC is not clearing our dues. LMC needs to pay us Rs 25 crore, else we will not be able to retain the workforce or hire more workers,” he said.
 
 (With inputs from   and  )
 
 
