JAIPUR: A week after   resigned from the post, suspense and speculations continue over who will be the next   state president.

 The delay in an announcement has fuelled rumours about the state leadership and the party high command failing to draw a consensus on Parnami's successor. While last week Union minister and Jodhpur MP   was believed to be the strongest candidate for the post, Monday brought to surface two new names -   and Bhupendra Yadav, both members of Rajya Sabha from the state. Panchariya, a Brahmin leader with a RSS background, has emerged strongly.
 
 It is believed that Raje and her loyalists are campaigning hard for a candidate of their choice. Sources claimed Raje is in favour of former minister Laxmi Narayan Dave, a Brahmin, or UDH minister Srichand Kriplani, a Sindhi.
 
 “Ministers loyal to Raje are now camping in Delhi. Prominent among them are Panchayati raj and rural development minister Rajendra Rathore, Industry minister Rajpal Singh Shekhawat, Agriculture minister Prabhulal Saini, Transport minister   and Cooperatives minister Ajay Singh Kilak. They are there to impress upon the central leadership to toe the chief minister’s line in the selection of party state president’s post,” said a source.
 
 The cabinet ministers on Monday evening met national general secretary Ramlal and requested for a say in the selection of the next state president. They were assured that a name would be announced only after discussions with all. 
 
 "The central leadership does not want a Raje loyalist to occupy the post. As a result, chief minister has intensified her canvassing for bringing in a person of her choice arguing that it will lead to cohesion in the party at a time when the crucial assembly elections are round the corner,” said the source.
 
 BJP sources say party president Amit Shah does not want to give a free hand to Raje this time around as her stocks are down after the massive defeats in the three bypolls in the state. Senior national leaders of the party are believed to have talked to RSS leaders and discussed the probable names. The forthcoming elections in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh are going to be the crucial assembly polls that will set the tune for parliamentary elections.
 
 
