AHMEDABAD: Thanks to the The   campaign, interest in current affairs among students has increased manifold — reading hours have registered a significant increase and awareness levels are at all time high.

 According to the principals of Newspaper in Education (NiE) schools in Ahmedabad, which are participating in the programme, students are exploring new ideas after reading The Times SPARK articles.
 
 Manan Choksi, director,  , said that a moderate increase has been noticed in the  . He said, “Demand for more chairs in library reached my desk and I was told that students are spending quality time in library, exploring various topics for scholarship exams.” The parents have been appreciating the effort as the students’ inclination towards reading has improved.
 
 Indrani Banerjee, principal, H B  , said that mobile phones had taken a toll on reading habits, but this initiative by The Times of India has rekindled the reading habit and has also worked on the writing and the debating skills of the students. Principal of Tripada High School, Pratiksha Parikh, said, “Guided reading by students for The Times SPARK has made them informed, aware and prompt and has ushered in a sea change in their perspective.”
 
 The schools found articles of the SPARK interesting as the jargons were smoothly decoded. This helped in encouraging them to read more, besides creating awareness about current affairs. The Times of India had started The Times SPARK (Scholarship Programme for Awareness, Reasoning and Knowledge) initiative to encourage students to examine a series of articles and then be tested on what they had read. The objective of the initiative was to broaden young minds, help them differentiate between the fact and the fiction, and read more than just their textbooks. Schools across the state participated in the campaign. The schools with the maximum participation from the students included Bright English School, H B Kapadia School, Udgam School for Children, St Joseph School and Tripada High School.
 
 
