It is said that several small endeavours are enough to herald a change. And while there are a gamut of start-ups working to orient Nagpur towards its Smart City tag, some have the potential to directly affect the way everyone live. Here's looking at two startups which began last year year and have found considerable success in the public sphere owing to their promise of convenience to its customers...  Go For Chai, online/offline chai ordering portal Chai lovers who lament the quality and hygiene of ‘tapris’, yet crave for a good hot brew, now have a solution — ordering it online. Go for Chai, begun by women ‘mom’ prenuers Anchal Suri Manda and Simran Suri is only about two months old. However, it boasts of a daily clientele of 20-odd corporates.  Goforchai.com offers 12 kinds of brew to the customers. Customers can also avail a subscription or order through telephone. This initiative, largely run by women, promises to deliver a steaming hot cup of chai at the doorstep within 30 minutes, anywhere in Nagpur.  “We focus on preserving the freshness of the tea, and are specific about the method and ingredients used to prepare teas. The leaves are sourced from Assam, whereas the spices are brought from Munnar. The tea is prepared in special copper vessels,” informs CEO Vivek Manda, adding that they supply a total of nearly 5,000 cups every day. Currently, this start-up serves tea until 12 am, and can benefit students, community events and gatherings as well. A mobile tea bar and a kiosk model is also on the cards, with a kiosk already functioning at Fidvi towers, run by women. YourPhysio Started in July, YourPhysio endeavors to provide a better patient experience by merging technology and patient oriented approach. Usually confined to a few props and a small room in hospitals, this start up aims to pursue physiotherapy as a specialization and offers a variety of tools and ample space for visitors. Appointments are fixed as per patient's time, and several conditions are treated at one place. Moreover, all records are maintained digitally.  The start up has a clinic in Trimurti Nagar at the moment and aims to open several others in the city as well as across cities. It aims to build a network of clinics, where several physio related conditions can be treated at one place. Moreover, it also provides consultancy to other organizations in setting up physiotherapy departments according to their needs. “Very few technology-driven start-ups venture into medical care, but I could do it, given my background as a techie in a family of doctors. In India, doctors are taught to be emotionally detached to patients but they are not taught how to be empathetic. Even in Nagpur, there are people looking for good medical care, and we have reached to 50-odd patients by now,” says founder Ashutosh Mundhada. He adds that in future, their goal is to use the power of machine learning and artificial intelligence to automatically come up with suggestive diagnosis based on the questions answered by the patient in the way of a simple form. This suggestive diagnosis will aid doctors and reduce their burden while diagnosing.