BENGALURU: Namma Metro’s airport connectivity plan has run into a hurdle after the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India (AERA) raised objections to the proposal to raise fund for the project by collecting additional user development fees (UDF) from air passengers before the commencement of commercial operations.

 AERA officials confirmed to TOI that   (BIAL) cannot impose UDF on passengers before commercial operations of Metro’s airport line begin. 
 
 S Machendranathan, chairperson of AERA, said: “Additional UDF is allowed in some cases. However, in this case, we can allow it only after commercial operations of Metro line begin. We cannot ensure that the same passengers who are paying UDF would use the Metro facility in future.”
 
 In December, the state government approved the 29-km Metro line from Nagawara to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). It also gave its nod to levy an additional Rs 60 to Rs 80 of UDF to mobilise around Rs 1,000 crore for the project.
 
 Of the Rs 5,950 crore estimated cost for the line, 54% (Rs 3,200 crore) will be raised through borrowings. The state government is slated to contribute Rs 1,250 crore and the Centre Rs 500 crore, while BIAL is to raise Rs 1,000 crore through UDF as its contribution. The BIAL is also to take care of the construction of the two stations on the airport campus.
 
 Machendranathan said BIAL could consider other sources of borrowing to fund the construction of the two proposed Metro stations at the airport. “We revise UDF tariff for every airport once in five years. The current UDF tariff, which was fixed in 2016, would remain till 2021. The revised tariff for the 2021 to 2026 period would be fixed after consulting various stakeholders,” said Machendranathan.
 
 Currently, the KIA collects an UDF of Rs 306 from an embarking domestic passenger and Rs 1,226 from an international passenger.
 
 The deadline for Metro’s airport line is 2021. But given Namma Metro’s track record, the project is likely to be delayed and UDF collection might be possible only after AERA’s revision in 2026.
 
 While BIAL refused to comment, Mahendra Jain, managing director, BMRCL, said the government has not received any communication so far.
 
