GUWAHATI: At  , under   in Meghalaya's   district, voting has always been a leisurely exercise. With just 29 voters, there is no hurry. 

 The tiny hamlet, near the India-Bangladesh border and 136 km from state capital Shillong, has the lowest number of electors of the 3,082 polling stations across the state. Of the 29 voters, 15 are men and 14 women. Kamsing's total population is 83.
 
 "We get to cast our vote without waiting in long queues," said 48-year-old Kolmis Thamar. The same went for Ripa Swer and Wolton Swer. "In other places, people have to wait in long lines. We have it easy," Swer said.
 
 Like each time, the entire poll process was wrapped up long before the scheduled closing time of 4pm.
 
 For the remote Kamsing village, development remains the most pressing issue. "We don't even have proper road connectivity. Very little has been done to develop our infrastructure," a Kamsing voter said.
 
 Reaching Kamsing is an arduous task. To avail public transport, one has to travel 10 km from the village. The district headquarters, Jowai, is 50 km away.
 
 Polling officials did not have it easy either. They had to take boats across the Shari-Goyain river to reach the polling booth on Sunday since there is no motorable road up to the polling booth. "Our team comprised seven officials, including a security person. Boat is the only means to reach to this polling booth. Voting has been smooth on Tuesday, as has always been the case in Kamsing. By noon, most of the electors had cast their votes," booth-level officer Kora Sungoh said.
 
 Like Kamsing, nearly 40% of the 3,082 polling stations are located close to the international border with Bangladesh. Security has been beefed up in these places, chief electoral officer FR Kharkongor said. Polling in these booths has been smooth, but because of their remote location, the election department is yet to compile the voting percentage.
 
 Wanmon Bhlong, booth-level officer of Kharkana polling station - also near the international border in West Jaintia Hills - said people voted without any hassle. Kharkana has 200-odd voters.
 
 
