NEW DELHI: The year 2017 has proved to be a good year for the police in Delhi. After several years, almost all genres of crimes — including crimes against women — have dipped, data released by the police at its annual press conference on Thursday shows. Road fatalities were down as well. 

 According to police data, not only have heinous crimes like murder, dacoity and robbery — the prime indicators of a crime situation in a city — gone down significantly but more cases were solved as well. According to police commissioner  , a focused approach to combating crime and strengthening ground level constabulary had resulted in this reduction. “Street crime came under control with a sharp decline in robberies and snatchings by 21.05% in 2017. Insistence on concentrated investigation led to a high rate of detection of heinous cases, which was 87.98% in 2017, as compared to 71.81% last year,” Patnaik said.
 
 While the overall registration of crimes increased by around 20% from 2016, Delhi Police said it highlighted its efforts towards proactive and free registration of crime. Patnaik attributed this increase to several factors, including online registration of crimes and the lodging of FIRs on complaints filed by email. He also put out a vision of a tech-savvy police in the making as he announced that the much-awaited joining of a chief technical officer had already happened. Dr A K  , earlier head of department (IT) at   Delhi Technical University for Women, will be working with a special commissioner to speed up modernisation projects. 
 
  
  
  A separate section, the “technology cell”, has been formed to take up initiatives to help the Delhi police switch to technology-aided policing by 2027 and ensure integration of technology and artificial intelligence in day-to-day policing. Patnaik also said police cyber cells would soon be restructured to handle complaints of computer- and bankrelated frauds. On the anti-terror front, Patnaik said the Delhi police not only initiated a crackdown on terrorists but took a plethora of preventive measures given the various incidents reported in other countries. 
 
 “In 2017, five terrorist modules were busted and 11 terrorists arrested. Delhi police also launched ‘Parakram’ commando vans mandated to handle terror-related and other serious situations warranting armed response,” he said. On the law and order front, Patnaik spoke about a unique experiment in crowd control. “In this model, senior officers and lady police remained at the forefront, and the anti-riot platoons became the fallback option. This has paid rich dividends this year and potential situations of confrontations have mostly been nipped in the bud. This was done at Parliament Street and  ,” the commissioner said. The police’s chief spokesperson, special commissioner Dependra Pathak, added, “For better service delivery to Delhi citizenry, the police chief had women public facilitation officers (female cops in civvies) as the first point of contact for victims. 
 
 For better law and order management, three new districts were made functional. Delhi police will soon get a more cosmopolitan character once 7,300 new recruits, drawn from all over the country, join. Our endeavour will be to carry forward the good work of 2017 into 2018 as well.” To curb crime, the police also took to engaging youths in productive tasks, and even provided them employment. The “YUVA” initiative to engage and steer street children and youth towards the mainstream of society was taken up on a war footing this year by creating facilities at police stations where youth were trained to obtain employment under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojna. 
 
 The Delhi police worked in close collaboration with the   ( ) and the   (CII) for this. Also launched was “Parahri”, which acted a force multipler. This initiative involved the training and sensitisation of security guards and chowkidars to prevent crime.
