GUWAHATI: Former Chelsea boss  's debut as the   (NEUFC) coach did not turn out well like his association with the team as the technical advisor in the last match. 

 Grant had influenced an arrest in the slide with a 2-1 win over the Goans but on a cold Friday night and colder empty stands at Indira Gandhi Athletic Stadium, his boys went down 0-1 to   to hand the defending champions a playoff lifeline.   scored the winner for Teddy Sheringham's side.
 
 ATK needed to win this match to keep their hopes of making it to the playoffs alive but they did not start like a team in a must-win situation. In fact, both teams were mostly content with battling at the midfield and hardly pushed forward in the first half. Barring a few missed half-chances, there was hardly any noteworthy move in the first 45 minutes.
 
 In the 21st minute, ATK custodian Debjit Ghosh made a goof up when he came out 17 yards off his position to collect a long ball sent in by NEUFC right-half Malemnganba Meitei to Brazilian striker Danilo. Ghosh spilled the ball and but for an alert Thomas Thorpe's quick clearance, Danilo would have got an open net to score.
 
 Following the breather, both teams upped the ante somewhat and ATK got the chance to go ahead in the 57th minute with Robin's attempt from close range. He could not make a good connection with Zequinha's cross and the header took a deflection off Sambinha's stretched leg and almost went in when TP came to the rescue with a good save.
 
 ATK's Portuguese midfielder Zequinha deservedly broke the deadlock in the 73rd minute with a long-ranger from the edge of the box. NEUFC centre-back Jose Goncalves lost possession to Prabir Das, who released the ball for Robin Singh on the left of the box. The India striker's left-footed shot was blocked by NorthEast custodian TP Rehenesh but Sambinha's weak clearance fell to Zequinha, lurking near the D. He did not miss the opportunity to beat Rehenesh, after a couple of touches for a better position to aim for the goal.
 
 NEUFC got a chance to equalize five minutes later but Holicharan Narzary's shot from left of the box missed the top right corner by inches.
 
