LUDHIANA: As 13 persons lost their lives due to collapse of a factory building in  , Municipal Corporation employees have come under the scanner for granting permission to illegal buildings, and opening the seals of a few buildings and shops after sealing them. Feeling the pain of families who lost their lives in the fire, a Ludhiana-based   activist has now written to the chief vigilance commissioner, chief secretary, and higher officers of the   department about the ‘sealing business’ of some MC officials.

 “About four months ago, I came to know about the construction of a six-storey building for commercial purposes near a police post in Sunder Nagar. After the Sufiyan Bagh fire and building collapse incident, I was very upset and lodged a complaint against the   building, which is being constructed in complete violation of building norms, as six-storey buildings cannot be constructed in a residential area. Acting swiftly on my complaint, the MC’s Building Branch then sealed the building. About a week ago, I found that the seal of the illegal building was opened by MC officials, and on enquiring about the reason, MC officials told me they had to open the same as the owner had told them he would use only the bottom two floors for residential purposes, and leave the other floors unoccupied, which is indeed a laughable proposition,” said RTI activist Ravi Sharma.
 
 He added: “In another similar case, a person gave MC officials in writing that he would construct a garage for his car, and even deposited about Rs15,000 for the purpose. However, later he constructed four shops instead of a garage. As I was following the case, I lodged a complaint against the person, after which MC Zone D sealed the shops about three months ago.” He further added that he was shocked to see that more than a month ago, MC officials opened the seal in gross violation of rules.
 
 The activist said when he saw the seal of illegal buildings being opened, he lodged a written complaint with top officials. He added that he had written in the complaint that on the one hand, they (MC officials) seal the buildings after a prolonged struggle by some ordinary citizens, and when they do, they later enter into an understanding with the defaulters, probably on the payment of some amount of money. “If they (MC officials) act on time, precious lives could be saved. But they don’t, which is why incidents like Sufiyan Bagh happen and innocent people lose their lives,” said the RTI activist.
 
 Meanwhile, MC authorities have started an investigation into the matter. “I have sent a team to Sunder Nagar to get a ground report on the matter. The construction of six-storey buildings — whether residential or commercial — is not legal in that area. If any official is found guilty of violation of rules, we will act against him,” said Ludhiana municipal commissioner Jaskiran Singh. He added that though the conversion of garages into shops is permissible in some areas, he is not sure whether   comes under that area.
 
 
