JALANDHAR: In one of the biggest crackdowns on illegal   in Punjab, police and civil administration in Jalandhar on Wednesday booked and arrested 20 operators who did not have the mandatory licences. Teams of police and civil officials had raided offices of 40 travel agents, who are mainly dealing in student visas. Officials revealed that crackdown would continue in the coming days. 

 
 The crackdown follows directions issued by chief minister   to crack whip on illegal travel agents following several complaints of fraud. On the CM’s instructions, Punjab home secretary N S Kalsi had asked the deputy commissioners and district police chiefs to ensure that all legal provisions mandated for these agents were being complied with. 
 
 Five teams of civil and police officials conducted joint raids and inspected offices of 40 travel agents in a commercial building. The crackdown was monitored by the Jalandhar commissioner of police Parveen Sinha and deputy commissioner  . 
 
 After inspecting the papers of these ‘immigration consultants,’ police registered   against 20 of them under sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the   and Section 13 of Punjab Travel Professionals Regulation Act. All of them including two women were arrested. They would be produced before the magistrate on Thursday.
 
 In the evening, Association of Consultants for Overseas Studies held a press conference alleging that most of those booked had applied for licences. When asked if rules permitted them to operate just after filing the application for the licence, they admitted that one could operate only after obtaining the licence.
 
 Responding to a query, the association leaders admitted that only 287 ‘immigration consultants’ had licences while there were over 1,500 such agents operating without licences or had applied for those. They claimed that their licences were being delayed in the government offices.
 
 They revealed that during the previous regime, they tipped the official machinery about a few people operating illegally and even charging Rs 20 lakh per aspirant but officials told them to mind their own business and not to get into policing.
 
