GURUGRAM: Chander Shekhar Khare, a 2008 IAS officer, has replaced Yashpal Yadav as the new administrator of Gurgaon. On his very first day at work, Khare inspected the   expressway to understand the issues that have been coming in the way of its completion. The new   administrator has set the completion of the e-way and the widening of   drain as his priorities.

 The work on the e-way started in 2008 and was expected to be completed before the Commonwealth Games. It has not been completed till now due to several litigations related to land acquisition. The rehabilitation of oustees from New Palam Vihar and Kherki Daula, which fall under the 18-km stretch of the Gurgaon portion of the e-way, is still pending. “People have been complaining about non-completion of the e-way on various forums and through social media and I was aware about the issue even before taking charge of Huda,” said Khare who was earlier working as the deputy commissioner of Panipat. 
 
 Sympathising with the frustration of people who have booked houses along the expressway, Khare said, “We can understand the concerns of the people. As Huda administrator, I will try to remove obstacles to ensure completion of the road.”
 
 Along with Dwarka Expressway, widening of Badhshapur drain is on his agenda. “There are some issues related to rehabilitation of oustees from Khandsa village. Recently, oustees were allotted alternative plots and we are expecting to complete the widening of the drain at the earliest,” said Khare. The widening of the Badshapur drain passing through Khandsa village is crucial for avoiding waterlogging and subsequent traffic problems at   and nearby areas.
 
 Most of the previous responsibilities of Huda have been dissolved and it has been left with the management of its properties only. With t he handover of Huda sectors to MCG, it no longer has to take up work related to the maintenance of civic infrastructure. Most projects as well as maintenance of roads and services like water supply, drainage, sewerage are now within the jurisdiction of  .
 
 “Our focus will be on land management,” said Khare, adding that the removal of encroachments from Huda’s land would be carried out on a regular basis.
 
 
