LUCKNOW: In a direct fight between   and SP-BSP candidates in  ,   candidates were nowhere to be seen. 

 Congress party's humiliating decimation could potentially establish the resurgence of the regional parties - SP and BSP - even as they gear up to take on BJP in 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 While in Phulpur, Congress candidate Manish Mishra secured just 2.6% of the total valid votes polled, Surheeta Kareem, who represented Congress in Gorakhpur, could earn just 2% votes. The candidates could not even save their deposits despite campaigning by party president Raj Babbar. 
 
 The voteshare in Phulpur, which was once represented by Jawaharlal Nehru and Vijay Lakshmi Pandit, was lowest since 2009 Lok Sabha. In Gorakhpur too, Congress party has never been able to secure votes since 1984.
 
 Despite their terrible loss, the Congress party continued to uphold BJP's loss while refusing to comment on the reasons for its defeat on the two seats. While state president Raj Babbar was not available for comments, senior leader Jitin Prasada quoted Rahul Gandhi. "We will look into the reasons for defeat, but as Rahul ji had said (in his tweet), Congress party is committed to reinvent itself in UP, but no change comes overnight," Jitin said.
 
 Talking about BJP's loss, he said, "This very significant turn is set to change the political narrative of India. An answer to BJP's arrogance, the result marks the beginning of the end of Modi rule in the country." 
 
 Hailing SP-BSP's victory, Congress leader in   said, "The mandate clearly attests that the people are fed up of the government, which has done nothing except for making fake promises." When asked to comment on Congress's poor show, he said: "I think the people did not see Congress as the strongest opposition." 
 
 Talking about the way forward, party leaders said that the bypoll has validated the power of an alliance but stated that any decision on this will be taken by the party leadership. 
 
 "The bypolls have shown that gathbandhan hi bhavishya hai (alliance is the future). And former party president Sonia Gandhi's dinner with leaders of different parties which took place recently was marked by discussions on the issue. But a series of meetings and discussions will take place before the outcome arrives," said a senior leader. 
 
 
