CHANDIGARH: To launch his government’s much-touted and promised   scheme,   chief minister   will disburse debt relief certificates totalling Rs 167.39 crore to nearly 47,000 eligible marginal and small farmers in   on Sunday. 

 These agriculturists, hailing from Mansa, Bathinda, Faridkot, Muktsar and   districts, had taken loans from primary agriculture cooperative societies, but were not able to pay them back. Additional chief secretary (cooperation) D P Reddy and additional chief secretary (development)  , while addressing media persons on Saturday, said 5.63 lakh eligible farmers had been identified for the scheme. “These farmers had taken loans totalling about Rs 2,700 crore from cooperative institutions, as on March 31, 2017,” Reddy said.
 
 Reddy said they had verified 3.20 lakh of the 5.64 lakh identified farmers found eligible and the state government had approved 1.6 lakh cases with loans worth Rs 748 crore pan Punjab. The officer said a web portal had also been launched by the state government to facilitate this exercise and, as per the plan, the entire debt waiver process would be completed in four phases. “The purpose of social audit is that even a single eligible farmer is not left out and those not eligible for the scheme do not become beneficiaries. It is a conscious decision,” he said. “The process will be completed in 3-4 months.”
 
 In the first phase, verified marginal farmers would be handed over debt waiver certificates and the rest in subsequent phases, after verification, he said. “For eligible farmers who do not have Aadhaar cards, or in the case of mismatch of Aadhaar card seeding either with banks or revenue records, verification will be manual in the second phase,” he said.
 
 After the completion of the second phase, the record of small farmers would be verified to enable them for debt relief. Khanna said loans of farmers taken from commercial and private banks would be settled thereafter under the Debt Relief Scheme 2017, already notified by the state. Under the scheme, marginal farmers having land holdings less than 2.5 acres and small farmers having land less than 5 acres, who have taken loan up to Rs 2 lakh, would be provided debt relief. The officer said though all kinds of loans will come under the scheme, the amont to be waived will not exceed Rs 2 lakh.
 
 
