AHMEDABAD: In a twist to the Bitcoin extortion case which wouldn’t be out of place in a heist film, CID (crime) on Monday named Shailesh Bhatt as the mastermind of the kidnappings of Piyush Savaliya in the last week of January 2018 and   on February 1.

 Bhatt is the Surat-based businessman who alleged that he was kidnapped and extorted out of Bitcoins worth Rs 12 crore by Amreli cops. Mavani was an administrator and Savaliya an office boy at Bit Connect, a cryptocurrency investment company based in Surat. Police said 2,256 Bitcoins, 11,000   and Rs 14.50 crore in cash — worth about Rs 155 crore in total — were extorted from the firm on February 1, 2018, through the kidnappings of Mavani and Savaliya.
 
 “Mavani was made to send Rs 14.50 crore, in cash, by angadia (courier) from Surat to Mumbai, where it was received by Shailesh Bhatt, under the fictitious name “P D Jadeja”.
 
 “Jadeja was the name assumed by one of the persons who had identified themselves as I-T officials when kidnapping Savaliya and as Surat crime branch sleuths when kidnapping Mavani,” a senior CID crime official said.
 
 DGP CID (crime),  , said the agency has lodged a case for kidnapping under sections 364(A), 365, 384, 387,343, 323, 504, 506(2), 170, 193, 201, 120(B) of the IPC and under sections of the Arms Act, as the accused used a firearm to extort the money.
 
 “When police first came across the Surat kidnappings, Bhatt made Savaliya file an affidavit saying he had not been kidnapped. Bhatt also paid him Rs 60 lakh to keep his mouth shut. We have recovered Rs 20 lakh of that money,” said DIG Deepankar Trivedi.
 
 Trivedi said section 364(A) provides for punishment including the death penalty. “We have arrested two accused, Dilip Kanani, who phoned Savaliya on the pretext of needing laptop repairs and Shailesh Bhatt’s nephew, Nikunj Bhatt, who transferred the Bitcoins and Litecoins to Bhatt’s e-wallets using Mavani’s laptop. Eight persons, including Bhatt, are absconding,” added Trivedi.
 
 While Nalin Kotadiya — the   ex-MLA from Dhari in Amreli — is still wanted in this case, the investigation has come full circle. CID crime now knows how Bhatt got hold of the money that was later allegedly extorted from him by Amreli SP Jagdish Patel, LCB inspector Anant Patel, an advocate called Ketan Patel and Kotadiya.
 
 “The web of complaints and counter-complaints have blown the lid off a major scam, which police believe was triggered by demonetization in November 2016. Those with illicit cash were offered the chance to invest it in Bit Connect and Nexa Coin, entities reportedly owned by Satish Kumbhani, a native of Amreli who has an office in Surat. Kumbhani, who later fled the country, mainly stayed in Goa,” said Bhatia.
 
 Officials said the scam could be worth as much as Rs 1,000 crore, as several Surat businessmen invested illicit cash in Bit Connect and Nexa Coin.
 
 “This aspect is not limited to Bit Connect and Nexa Coin. We are also probing five or six more virtual currency investment companies, which received crores from Surat-based investors after demonetization,” added Bhatia.
 
 CID crime officials said Bhatt had invested Rs 2 crore in Kumbhani’s company but was given back only Rs 1.80 crore. “To recover the remainder, he planned the kidnappings of Savaliya and Mavani. He then proceeded to extort Rs 155 crore from Mavani,” Bhatia added.
 
 
