Mohammad Muneem has a simple reasoning for why his batch of English-speaking college students come to learn from him the genres of Urdu poetry at Symbiosis College. “Har insaan shayari kar sakta hain,” he says matter-of-factly, as he brushes aside talk of any language hurdle and instead stresses on the overwhelming need of the students to express themselves through poetry.

 Muneem should know about self-expression. His own requirement for that was situational, when he left the sylvan Kashmir Valley as a 20-year-old to study engineering and an MBA in Pune. He took to writing poetry, gradually extending it to penning songs, lending vocals to them and finally composing them. His songs — all of which are in Kashmiri and Urdu — found connect with the people through Highway 61, a band in which he jammed up with other artistes from Pune and Mumbai to meld sounds from the Valley with those from contemporary musical instruments. 
 
 The band has now been re-christened Alif, meaning oneness, and promises a more mature sound. Besides Muneem, the other members of the band are Hardik Vaghela (keyboards), Amit Gadgil (bass), both from Pune, and Karan Deshmukh (percussion) and Chaitanya Bhaidkar (guitar), both from Mumbai.
 
 The tracks in Alif’s recently-released album, Sufayed, are based on personal experiences and situations, says Muneem. One of them, ‘Malaal kya hua’, deals with clinical depression, ‘Ali’ is about people with self-doubts, ‘Shartiya’, is about conditional, selfish people, while ‘Rupya’ is a fun song on demonetisation.
 
 Then there’s ‘Yuur Walo’ (return to the earth), which Muneem wrote after hearing Steven Wilson’s ‘Refuge’, which was inspired by the Syrian humanitarian crisis. But perhaps the most stirring song in the album is ‘Jhelumas’, the journey of a woman across the Jhelum river which ends in her drowning… in her own emotions, figuratively. 
 
 Muneem says the band’s songs are based on compassion and empathy, qualities that grew on him after two scary experiences —one in which his father suffered injuries in a grenade blast in the market in Srinagar and the other when Muneem was himself attacked apparently for no reason on the streets of Pune. His lyrics sometimes can be pretty dark too, as in ‘Like A Sufi’ — one of his hits in the Valley. Yet, it’s a track people love to dance to simply because of its vibrancy, he says.
 
 But Muneem’s initiation into music did not begin with the ethnic stuff, rather it revolved around the fare of Michael Jackson and Queen. His uncle was a radio jockey for a show called Sunday Request on Radio Kashmir, and Muneem was one of its most avid listeners. He remains a big fan of Freddie Mercury, and has been to St Peter’s school in Panchgani if only to gaze at a broken piece of the piano on which the Queen frontman would play as a student there.
 
 Muneem says he himself was an average student in school, often bullied. His first confidence boost came when, as a 14-year-old, he sang Mehdi Hassan’s ‘Ranjish hi sahi’ before a packed audience at a hotel near the Dal lake. In Pune, he taught himself the guitar, took to contemporary dancing and trained his voice with coaching from the Hadapsar-based Celia Lobo, one of India’s finest opera singers. 
 
 The journey since has been slow, but Muneem says the band has been making a conscious effort to stay inspired. He looks to break the stereotype of Kashmir, wanting it to be considered just like any other state in India. 
 
 While earlier the band did not come out much in the open, it has been sharing information about its music vigorously on social media these days. “There is an unfortunate necessity of knowing how to sell yourself in modern times to stay relevant,” says Muneem. This necessity is best epitomised in another one of the band’s tracks, ‘Shoshay ka chasma’, where he sings, ‘Khamoshi bechun chillayega kaun, agar bakse mein rakh chhodun khareedenga kaun’ (If I sell my silence, who would speak for me, and if I keep it in a treasure box, who would buy it from me).
 
 
