CHANDIGARH: Coming down heavily on officials of the   depot of Haryana Roadways for unnecessarily generating litigation with regard to payment of wages to drivers working in the department, the Punjab and Haryana high court has imposed a cost of Rs 50,000 on its general manager and law officer.

 In this case, drivers of HR were deprived of minimum regular payscale from the date of their initial appointment. The   (SC), however, had ordered the department in 2017 not to deprive drivers of minimum regular payscales meant for the post from the date of their initial appointment. “The directions issued by SC in Mohinder Singh’s case have been violated with impunity. If officers of the department do not understand the plain language written in the judgment, then the object for which the directions have been given cannot be achieved as still the litigation has been generated. Directions had been issued by the apex court but due to non-compliance thereof, the aggrieved employees have to come to this court, creating unnecessary litigation and wasting court’s time as well,” the HC observed.
 
 While imposing a cost of Rs 50,000 on the department, the HC made it clear that the amount of costs “shall be recovered from the GM, Fatehabad, and assistant district attorney, who gave opinion in the matter and as a result the impugned order was passed and the employees concerned were not granted the benefit.”
 
 A division bench comprising Justices   and B S Walia released this order last week while disposing of a petition filed by Ramesh Kumar and several other drivers working in Fatehabad depot of HR. The petitioners had approached the HC with a grievance that they should not be deprived of minimum regular payscale meant for the post of driver from the date of their initial appointment. The rules provided for payment of 3,000 per month as consolidated salary for two years from the date of appointment.
 
 They had requested for setting aside the order passed on July 28, 2017, through which the benefit earlier granted to some of the petitioners had been withdrawn. According to them, the high court as well as the SC has already upheld that these drivers will be entitled to the minimum payscale from the date of their initial appointments. According to the petitioners, despite that, still they were not granted the benefit. Responding to the petition, the state authorities had claimed that the mistake has been realized as the order passed by the GM of Haryana Roadways, Fatehabad, has been withdrawn and he had been directed to pass fresh orders.
 
 
