NAVI MUMBAI: On Mother’s Day, a Kamothe-based woman, Anjali Bhosale, recalled the tragic death of her   daughter, Harsha (15), on June 30, 2017. 

 The teenager was found on the railway tracks next to   station. Bhosale till date refuses to accept that her daughter had committed suicide, which the railway police report stated, and has demanded a reinvestigation in the case.
 
 The girl’s 17-year-old boyfriend, Pritesh Kamble, had also sustained grievous injuries after being hit by a local train. He, too, succumbed to his injuries three months later.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the Bhosale said, “On the evening of June 30, 2017, Harsha told me that she was going to buy some snacks. When she did not return after 15 minutes, I went down looking for her. Some children in the locality told me that Kamble had come to meet my daughter near the building and they both had an heated argument. They said that he also hit her on her head with a stick. They then walked ahead, along with Kamble’s friends.”
 
 Later that night, Bhosale got a call and was asked to go to Panvel rural hospital. When she reached there she was shocked to learn about her daughter’s death. She was told that the girl died after being hit by a local train, while her boyfriend was seriously injured as well. 
 
 She added, “Even Kamble’s friends have told the police that he had assaulted Harsha with a stick. After all this why will my daughter readily go with him to Mansarovar station. I want the Panvel GRP to carry out further investigations since I suspect that it was a murder.”
 
 Meanwhile, senior inspector Rajesh Babshetty from Panvel GRP said, “The police has recorded the statements of all the family members and friends of both the victims, besides the statements of the railway motormen involved. We have registered a case of suicide by the two youngsters who were said to be in love with each other. However, if there are any further allegations or any discrepancies in the statements given earlier, we can again question the friends of the victims.” 
 
 Babshetty added, “The police will also examine if there was any pending life insurance money in the name of the girl.” The boy’s parents have given their statement to the police and have denied any foul play in the case.
 
 
