LUDHIANA: With a handful of leaders and workers, the   ( ) and   (SAD) observed a fast from 11am to 5pm on Thursday at the district level, following Prime Minister  , who observed a fast along with other MPs in Delhi against the   party, for disturbing the second budget session of Parliament, and ‘murder of democracy’.

 Sources revealed that after Congress leaders having ‘chane bhature’ before their fast in Delhi, BJP party workers were told to be cautious and not eat anything during the fast. The leaders had already conveyed instructions to the workers. Perhaps, that was the reason for a smaller gathering at the ‘dharna’ site outside the Mini Secretariat on Ferozepur Road. Workers kept visiting and making their presence felt for the fast, but soon left the site. Even those who were sitting there were busy clicking pictures or fiddling with their mobile phones.
 
 The leaders who participated in the fast included BJP district president Ravinder Arora, state general secretary Jeevan Gupta, Rajinder Bhandhari, Satpal Gosain, SAD district president Ranjit Dhillon, and former mayor Harcharan Singh Gohalwaria. The leaders, in their address, said parliament was a supreme place where parties should discuss about the future of people, but here the opposition was merely wasting time and shying away from responsibility. Condemning the Congress, the leaders said that this time, 23 days of the session were wasted, and all that would affect citizens of the country.
 
 On the other hand, reacting to the fast being observed by BJP leaders, Congress MP Ravneet Bittu said: “It is the NDA government that has murdered democracy, and not Congress, as PM Narendra Modi considers himself as the supreme authority. Today, supporting parties are leaving NDA, and even in Punjab, cracks have appeared between SAD and BJP. This is the reason both parties protest separately.” 
 
 Malik to address BJP workers on April 14
 
 BJP district president Ravinder Arora informed that the newly appointed state president of the party and MP Shwet Malik would come to the city on April 14, and instead of organizing any roadshow, they had decided to organize a programme of party workers. He said it would be Malik’s maiden visit to the city after his elevation as state president, and when he addresses workers, it would create a close contact. 
 
 
