NEW DELHI: Last month, Rajya Sabha member   lost Rs 27,000 when he disclosed the one-time-password sent to his phone purportedly by his bank. But while Dullo’s case may have made news, many others in Delhi have faced the ignominy of having lost money to  , or voice phishing. Police sources said the law enforcers are aware of the problem, and have determined that most of the perpetrators are youths from villages in states like   and Chhattisgarh.

 These youths, trained in voice modulation to sound like typical customer care executives from banks, con people into sharing the CVV numbers on their plastic cards or the OTPs sent to their mobiles on some pretext or the other. In Dullo’s, the voice assured him that the call was to link his Aadhaar number with this bank account.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The frauds are also using SIM cards procured on fake IDs and evade scrutiny by changing the call locations frequently. The money that is siphoned is often transferred two or three times and withdrawn through ATMs to mask the identity of the eventual beneficiaries.
 
 Recently, Delhi’s Crime Branch busted one such group operating from Karmatar in Jharkhand’s Jamtara district. Among the victims were judges, senior bureaucrats and retired government officials. The module had its tentacles across India. In one case, the cops had a chase on their hands when the money from a victim in Delhi went to bank accounts in Rajasthan and Punjab.
 
 In November too, three vishing incidents were logged in the capital, the victims being a cop, an elderly housewife and a security personnel. In two of the cases, the crooks called from the same number (****221857) and procured details from the victims by offering to renew and reactivate their debit cards.
 
 Police have warned people against sharing such details on phone, SMS or email. “In crimes of this sort, people receive phone calls that appear to be from their bank or someone in the bank’s technical team. In most cases, the caller sounds professional and provides a convincing reason for calling the customer,” a senior cop explained. “After creating a false sense of security, the caller tricks the victim into giving away confidential data such as OTP, credit/debit card number, expiry date of the card, passwords, ATM pins, even net banking passwords and customer IDs.” With such crucial information in hand, the fraudsters are able to carry out illegal financial transactions using the victim’s name and account.
 
 “Remember that banks or their representatives never send mails or text messages or call people over phone to ask for personal information, password or the one-time password on SMS,” cautioned the officer. “Any such e-mail/SMS or phone call is an attempt to fraudulently withdraw money from the customer’s account through internet banking. Never respond to such email/SMS or phone call.” 
 
 
