NEW DELHI / KOCHI: The   on Thursday stayed the ordinance by the   government that sought to regularise admission of 180 students in two medical colleges which the

 apex court had earlier declared illegal, in effect cancelling the admission of these third-year MBBS students – 150 from Kannur Medical College and 30 from Karuna Medical College in  .
 
 
  
 
 On Wednesday, the state government and entire opposition – including the lone BJP MLA – had, in a rare show of unanimity, joined hands to pass a bill in the Kerala assembly that intended to turn the ordinance into law, a move they portrayed as a ‘humanitarian gesture’ to save the students almost half-way through their MBBS course. Dissenting voices within mainstream political parties however described it as a cynical ploy to placate the powerful management lobby of self-financing colleges.
 
 The Medical Council of India (MCI) had approached the SC challenging the ordinance’s propriety and constitutional validity. Senior advocate Vikas Singh and lawyer   told a bench of Justices   and U U Lalit that the state government had violated the SC’s order.
 
 Agreeing with the MCI’s plea, the bench said, “In our prima facie view, the ordinance in question blatantly seeks to nullify the binding effect of the order passed by this court…It was prima facie not open to sit over the judgment and validate those very admissions and to venture into regularising them.
 
 “We, therefore, stay operation of the ordinance and make it clear that no student shall be permitted to reap any benefit of any action taken and they shall not be permitted to attend the college or classes or continue in medical colleges in any manner pursuant to the ordinance”.
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, speaking to the media on the sidelines of a programme in Kochi, said the state government does not intend to challenge the Supreme Court verdict against the bill. He said the government would think of other follow-up actions.
 
 CPM state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan called the SC verdict “unfortunate” and said, “the apex court has not considered the good intention of the state government on the matter”. Former chief minister   said the entire opposition voted for the bill because of concern over the future of the students.
 
 The Kerala Professional Colleges (Regularisation of Admission in Medical Colleges) Ordinance, 2017, was notified by the state government on October 20 last year to regularise the admission of students admitted in 2016 to Kannur and Karuna Medical Colleges. But the Admission and Supervisory Committee for Professional Colleges in Kerala had quashed the admissions saying it was not done in compliance with law and was illegal.
 
 The committee’s decision was upheld by the Kerala high court and the SC in March last year. The courts dismissed the two self-financing medical colleges’ plea and barred them from re-admitting students to these seats for the 2016-17 academic year. The state government, thereafter, brought the ordinance – and subsequently the bill -- to regularise the admission.
 
 The SC will take up the matter again after four weeks.
 
 
