HYDERABAD: A study, intended to assess the quality of implementation of the sheep distribution scheme being taken up by Telangana state was given a quiet burial. Though a GO (Rt No 167) was issued in December last year for a third party evaluation of the scheme, in the wake of irregularities in implementing it, the TRS government reportedly kept the order on hold. 

 "The order on assessment of quality of sheep distribution scheme was kept in abeyance as the state government felt that a minimum time period of a year is required to assess the socio-economic impact of the scheme," director of veterinary and animal husbandry department   told TOI on Thursday. 
 
 Telangana government last year announced the sheep distribution scheme in 31 districts across the state. About 35 lakh sheep (one unit including one male and 20 females) were distributed to shepherds at 75% subsidy.
 
 Official sources said the special chief secretary initiated a third party evaluation as several irregularities were reported from the four districts of Nalgonda, Jagityal, Mahbubnagar and Sangareddy. Two officials of the animal husbandry department were suspended in Jagityal district after it was found that they had flouted norms in the distribution and transportation of sheep.
 
 The state government reportedly withheld the GO as it would lead to embarassment if any loopholes in the implementation of the scheme are exposed. Moreover, opposition parties have already been taking a dig at the government on the scheme. The other concern is financial implication, as it would require several crores for the study.
 
  The GO was issued by the then special chief secretary of animal husbandry department   on December 30, 2017, in the light of alleged irregularities in the implementation of the state government's flagship programme. The government asked the   to take up the study and finance department sanctioned funds to conduct the study. According to sources, CM   was not consulted before taking the measure. As a result , Chanda was shunted out from the animal husbandry department and a new secretary was appointed. The state government then directed to keep the GO on hold.
 
 
