PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited ( ) will erect pillars for the elevated Metro route between   and Morwadi along the BRTS corridor on the service road of the Pune-Mumbai highway.

 The MahaMetro was earlier planning to erect the pillars on the footpath on the route. However, the plan was junked since a number of utility lines were running beneath the footpath and going ahead with this plan would have meant felling of more trees.
 
 Brijesh Dixit, managing director, MahaMetro, told TOI, “The pillars for Metro from Kharalwadi to Morwadi on the Pimpri-Swargate route will be built along the   corridor on the service road to avoid the grade separator. Moreover, there are a number of utility lines beneath the footpath here, which required shifting had we gone ahead with the earlier plan. Further, the footpath here also housed many trees, which we want to save. Therefore, we junked the earlier plan.”
 
 To facilitate the work, the barricading on the BRT bus corridor is being removed, which may affect running of the buses on the stretch, experts said. When asked about it, Dixit said, “We do not want to disturb BRT bus corridor or running of buses in any way. So, the Metro pillars will be erected on service road.”
 
 “After completion, the pillars will occupy a small width of the service road. But, we need more space around them during the construction period. So, traffic will be affected only during the construction phase and not after that,” Dixit said. 
 
 Gautam Birhade, chief project manager, MahaMetro, said, “As many as 41 pillars are to be erected from Kharalwadi to Morwadi along the BRT corridor. Barricades have been erected on service road from Kharalwadi to Babasaheb Ambedkar chowk in Pimpri to lay foundation for some pillars. We will soon start erecting barricades on service road to enable us to lay foundation for erecting other pillars from Ambedkar chowk to Morwadi.” 
 
 He added that foundation of 102 pillars is completed. “We have completed the construction of 70 pillars while the work on another 32 pillars is half done. We have also laid five spans on piers,” Birhade said.
 
 
