Despite the  's effort to make the   successful, the event hasn't been much promising at least for the craftsmen who have come to the ten-day cultural extravaganza from across the country. According to the artisans, the footfall has been low this year, resulting in poor sale of their products. Many of the traders are saying that they are unable to recover the amount that they have invested to put up a stall at the festival.

 
 
  Mohammad Irfan, who has come for the second time to the festival from Delhi, has put up a stall of party outfits for women. He says, "There's has been nearly no sale till now this year. Baithe hue hain sannate mein. Ichcha ho rahi hai ghar bhaag jane ki. But we can't go because we have paid the rent, so we have to recover the amount. While last year, we were able to make around Rs 30,000, it is hardly Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 this year."
 
  
  There has been a low footfall so far in the Taj Mahotsav
 
 
 
  Mukesh Yadav from Hathras, who has a stall selling soft toys, has been coming to the festival for over ten years. He says, "Haalat bilkul hi kharaab hai. As compared to last year, there is a drop of around 40% in the sale. I think it will be difficult to recover even the rent, which is Rs 26,000, let alone earning profit from the festival."
 
  Ravi Kumar, an artisan from Gujarat, says, "Earlier, we would make good business and that's why, we continued coming here to display our products. But for the past year, the footfall at the festival has been low."
 
  
  Due to low tourist footfall, there is a decline of 40% in the sale as compared to last year 
 
 
 
  Saurav Srivastava, a craftsman from  , says, "During the initial years, the mahotsav was held at a large scale. But for the past year, they organise the event in less space. Even the rides are set up on a different ground, which is quite far from the main place of the festival."
 
 
 
  Dinesh Kumar, Deputy Director, UP Tourism, Agra, says, "Though we had a technical glitch on the first day of the festival during  's performance, the festival is running smooth since then. We are receiving footfalls and we are expecting more number of people at the festival in the concluding days.
 
 
