CHANDIGARH: After receiving a lot of support from the Tricity's parents and educationists on the human resource development (HRD) minister's announcement to reduce syllabus, all the stakeholders have started sending their suggestions to the NCERT as urged by the ministry. 

 The parents of the city-based school students in their requests want a reworked syllabus and introduction of much-needed concepts of moral values and problem solving skills.
 
 "At present, most of the children are just cramming in order to score good marks. The government should take responsibility of fixing syllabus. This initiative would also eliminate books' nexus prevailing in all the private school," said  , a parent.
 
 "Syllabus must be reduced and reworked in a way that it promotes creativity and leadership. The present syllabus is not doing much in building good citizens as no morals are attached to the detailed course books. Also with a lot of content, students prefer to rote and shun understanding it. It is failing to produce thinkers. The syllabus should promote innovation and creativity among studnets," Sachin added.
 
 A government school teacher said,  , said that the NCERT must look into improving the quality and objectivity of the content."
 
 Stating that the idea of reducing syllabus is great move as a lot of content that students learn today is outdated, director of   A B S   said, a lot of emphasis should be given on spreading digital technology and imparting other 21st century skills.
 
 However, there are subjects in which quashing is not required. "Reducing syllabus is not required in subjects like languages, maths and science. However, the subjects that demand rote learning should be reduced," said vice-principal of British School.
 
 NEET trainer Arvind   said that the MHRD's initiative to invite suggestions from all the stakeholders was a great move. "However, this would only be fruitful if important and valid suggestions are looked into and implemented," Goyal added.
 
 Meanwhile, there are some schools that opine that reducing syllabus is not the way out and the ministry must focus on overhauling the curriculum rather then slashing it.
 
 Reducing the syllabus is not an effective way to counter stress that students face during exams. There is already a huge gap between what most colleges entrance exams demand and what is being taught. What is, perhaps, needed is an overhaul of the syllabus to make it more contemporary and student-friendly," said principal of Hansraj Public School Panchkula Jaya Bhardwaj.
 
 
