NEW DELHI: The conduct of Delhi government including its top bureaucracy,   and the lieutenant governor on delayed filing of appeals came in for scathing criticism from the high court on Friday.

 “The Delhi government is in effect validating the quote attributed to Dr Laurence J Peter: Bureacracy defends the status quo long past the time when the quo has lost its status,” a bench of justices S Muralidhar and I S Mehta sarcastically noted, referring to the “unconscionable delays” in filing of criminal appeals.
 
 The court was also upset that its recommendations to digitise records of the departments of law and prosecution and to fast-track filing of appeals had not been taken seriously.
 
 It ordered the   and law minister to meet and ensure “there is absolutely no delay in government filing appeals” and underlined that “the responsibility of tackling increasing litigation, some of which is pointless and at instance of the government, has to be shared by the government which is a major litigant.”
 
 The bench said it is constrained to issue directions adding, “The uniform experience of the courts at all levels is that a majority of appeals, petitions etc filed by the government are well beyond the period of limitation. A 180 plus days delay in the filing of a criminal appeal/leave petition by Delhi government in this court, against an order of acquittal, is par for the course...it is a waste of public revenue and detrimental to public interest.”
 
 It had earlier identified the cause of delay to be multiple levels of decision making when it came to filing of a criminal appeal. The bench had asked the government to shorten the process. It said once the director of prosecution favours filing an appeal but the law department differs, a final call should be made at the very next stage. At present in such cases the file goes from senior bureaucrats in the ministry to the law minister right up to the LG.
 
 Instead of streamlining the process, the law minister in a note asked officials not “to get carried away and start cutting levels” and stuck to the earlier procedure, which was also approved by the LG.
 
 HC was disappointed with both the minister and the LG. The bench said “it is plain that the law minister is reluctant to let go of the unnecessary lengthy processes that is resulting in unconscionable delays in taking a decision whether or not to file an appeal against an order of acquittal. As is often said, bureaucracy is a system that enables 10 men to do the work of one.”
 
 The court said it failed to understand “why there cannot be a concerted effort to reduce the multiple levels of consideration to just one after the opinion of the DoP. Does the matter really have to travel to the Law Minister and then to LG every time?”
 
 Lastly it also ordered the chief secretary Delhi to lay down a time frame for digitisation of entire process of filing of appeals and petitions to “cut through the maze of lengthy process that the bureaucracy has devised over centuries.”
 
 
