Nagpur: The High Court here directed   to file an affidavit pertaining to cases judged by NU’s Disciplinary Action Committee ( ) and its orders.

 A division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi said they would consider whether the controversy involving son of former assistant registrar Sandhya Chunodkar-Handa needed to be looked into based on affidavit filed. The directives came while hearing a plea by Handa’s son   who challenged NU’s move to ask him to reappear for his third semester BE (Mechanical) examination.
 
  had cancelled his third semester exam after his mother Handa was found guilty in Kohchade style scam in NU, first exposed by TOI on July 8, 2012. After TOI’s sustained investigations and series of reports, services of Handa, working as assistant registrar (confidential), were finally terminated in March last year.
 
 While issuing notices to the respondents, including NU registrar, the judges asked them to reply by February 16. Chairmen of DAC and Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) along with vice-chancellor SP Kane (personally) have been made respondents.
 
 DAC found out that Karan, a student of St Vincent Palloti College of Engineering, was ultimate beneficiary of fraudulent increase in marks in re-totalling of three subjects and revaluation of two subjects. It recommended cancellation of his performance and prohibiting him from appearing in papers again. It also called for punishing and debarring him from one exam.
 
 NU BOEE accepted the DAC report and cancelled the youngster’s result on October 8, 2013. NU then officially issued notification in this regard on November 2, 2013, which was challenged by the petitioner in HC through counsel Bhanudas Kulkarni.
 
 A division bench of Justices Vasanti Naik and   had granted him relief on June 20 last year by quashing NU decision. It however allowed NU to take action against him as per rules and regulations, but not before offering sufficient chance to defend himself as per principles of natural justice.
 
 NU then issued a fresh notice to him on July 13 last year. After hearing him as per HC directives, DAC asked him to reappear in third semester exams. This decision was later confirmed by the BOEE in its November 3 meeting and conveyed to him on December 27. He again knocked the judiciary’s doors contending no explanation was given in the notice regarding charges faced or any misconduct by him.
 
 After TOI expose of scam, NU probed only one case involving her son and found Handa guilty of increasing son’s marks after revaluation though unfair means. NU had withheld his results and degree even though he was allowed to appear in the exams by the court.
 
 Karan appeared in third semester winter exam and was declared failed when results were declared on January 3, 2011. He applied for re-totalling of four subjects — Theory of Machines (ToM)-I where he scored 21/80 marks, Fluid Power-I where he secured 16/80 marks, Manufacturing Process-I where he got 28/80 marks, and Engineering Metallurgy where he scored 29/80 marks. He was declared failed in first two subjects as he could not score minimum 40/100 marks that included practicals.
 
 During re-totalling, his marks were allegedly increased to 24 in first subject, 22 in second, and 31 in third one that helped him clear the exam, the DAC found.
 
 
