INDORE: An   conducted by social justice department showed that most of the government buildings of Indore district, be it schools/colleges, gardens and theatres/auditoriums, are not completely disabled-friendly.

 Under the ‘Accessible India’ campaign launched in 2015, the Centre had set a deadline of July 2016 to conduct accessibility audit of at least 50 most important government buildings of Indore district and convert them into fully accessible.
 
 
  
 “Following the instructions, we had roped in officials of Public Works Department (PWD) to conduct the audit. Reports related to 50 government buildings have been sent to the Centre,” social justice department’s joint director, BC Jain told TOI.
 
 However, local authority didn’t comply with Centre’s instructions to send the accessibility report within the given timeframe and documents were sent late by January, 2017.
 
 Even the Centre has delayed the project as after getting the report, it is yet to release any fund to carryout required infrastructural changes in selected buildings to make them completely disabled  .
 
 “Based on the audit report of 50 government buildings, the Centre has initially selected two structures - district collectorate and Mata Jijabai Government Girls College and sanctioned a fund of Rs 13.90 lakh and Rs 1.32 crore for making required infrastructural changes to make it fully accessible. The fund is however yet to be released,” Jain said.
 
 As per the instructions, the selected government buildings must set up ramps, rails, lifts, wheelchair-users, auditory signals, tactile flooring and brain signage were among facilities to be arranged for disabled persons.
 
 Among top 50 government buildings of Indore district, collectorate, police headquarter, SDM offices, BSNL office in Foothi Kothi, IMC headquarter and all zone offices, Agriculture College, Income-Tax office, DAVV, district education office, Residency Kothi, MP Tourism Development Corporation’s office, Electricity Board, Employment office, Lalbagh, Nehru Park, Regional Park, Meghdoot Garden, Zoo, Usharaje Stadium, MGM Medical College, Divisional Commissioner’s office, Gandhi Hall and Ravindra Natya Griha are included.
 
 
