The Supreme Court might have refused to reconsider the ban on ' ' but protests against the film by fringe elements have continued to rock different parts of the country. In Uttar Pradesh, the Karni Sena and Akhil Bhartiya Kshatriya Mahasabha have been protesting against the screening of the film. While at some places, including capital Luckow, protestors threw petrol bombs and burnt posters of the film, almost in every city - including Noida, Agra, Bareilly, Kanpur, Banaras and Allahabad - cinema hall owners have received letters 'requesting' them to not screen the film. While most owners say that they will abide by the Supreme Court's order and screen the film, some have adopted a wait-and-watch policy to see how things fare once the film releases and then take a call accordingly. 

 
 
  
  
 
  
 To prevent any unpleasantness during the screening of the film, a few cinema hall owners met Deepak Kumar, SSP, Lucknow, to request him for extra security.
 
  Ankit Singh, a clerk at the cinema hall Novelty-Aliganj in Lucknow, told us, "It's not a movie that we can ignore to screen, so we requested the SSP, Lucknow, to provide us with extra security during the screening of the film. We want to have the additional security in place at least till January 28."
 
  
  
 
 
  This is a sentiment that’s being shared by most cinema halls across the state. They do not want to lose out on the business but they are also concerned about the safety of their property, audience and staff. 
 
  
    in a still from 'Padmaavat'
 
 
  Meanwhile, till yesterday, some halls hadn’t started with the advance booking of the movie. The general manager of a multiplex in Lucknow’s Gomti Nagar, on the condition of anonymity, said, “Though a few multiplexes did open the advance booking on Sunday, they had to stop it owing to the risk of ruckus being created by fringe elements. The movie is big but as of now, we will wait and watch. This is a sensitive issue and we wouldn't like something unpleasant to happen inside our mall.”
 
  
  
 
 
  
 Cinema halls in West UP and Noida, say that they will screen the film since the SC has cleared its release. Prashant, manager of Carnival Cinemas at GIP, Noida, said, "Representatives of the Rajput Uthaan Sabha came to the mall last week and gave us a letter 'requesting' us not to screen the film. We have forwarded their request to our head office, which will take the final call on the matter. For now, we have allotted slots for the film screening."
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Some of the cinemas have decided not to screen the film at all. On Tuesday,  , a clerk at the single screen theatre Shree Talkies, Agra, told us, "We have been getting threat letters for two-three days now. The local police has been informed of the same and SSP Agra has assured us security but we are still worried. Under the current scenario, we are not going to screen the film, at least as of now. Baki toh aage jaise halaat rehte hain, uspe depend karta hai."
 
  Till Wednesday afternoon, Carnival Cinemas had not begun with the advance booking for the film. Abhishek Gautam, manager, told us, "If situation remains tense, we might not screen the film. Though the police have assured us security, we are sceptical about the safety of our staff and viewers."
 
  
 Apart from the malls, UP also has hundreds of single-screen cinema halls across the state, which lack the kind of private security most multiplexes have. A single screen cinema hall owner in Meerut told us, “It is a big film, which can be potentially a big earner for us. So, naturally we do want to screen it. But we also don’t want the fringe elements ransacking and vandalising our halls. If the police gives us assurance and security, we will surely screen the film. But we are nervous given the propensity for violence in UP by fringe elements.”
 
  
  
 
  
 On the condition of anonymity, one of the duty manager at INOX, Kanpur, informed, "A group of 20-25 people came to our multiplex and handed over a letter, threatening us of violent demonstrations if we choose to screen the film. We brought this to the notice of the Circle Officer (Police) of our area. We have also requested him to make adequate security arrangements."
 
  Cinema hall owners in Allahabad said that they will wait and gauge the prevailing situation before going ahead with screening of Padmaavat. "We are adopting the policy of wait and watch. At the same time, keeping in mind the SC order, we have written to the district administration, asking them to grant us adequate security to release the film," says Ashutosh Agarwal, owner of Starworld Cinemas, Allahabad.
 
  Manish Gupta, manager, JHV Cinema, Banaras, said, "We will be releasing the film, as of now, unless there is a last minute hitch. We have handed over a formal letter to the local police station with a copy to the SSP, requesting them to ensure the security of the property, audience and our staff.
 
  
 Manoj Saxena, Operations Head, Starworld Cinemas, Amrapali Mall, says, "We spoke to the in-charge of our area police station and they have ensured to give us complete protection. However, in case of untoward situation, we might have to postpone the screening for three-four days. For instance, because of the risk involved, a few multiplexes/ theatres in Mathura have postponed its screening for a few days."
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 - with inputs from Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com 
 
