SECUNDERABAD: If   ( ) CEO SVR Chandrasekhar’s grand panacea of two flyovers takes shape and bears fruit, then thousands of commuters using the Gough Road need not worry about its impending closure — May 31 is the deadline — as these flyovers are supposed to skirt the contentious road.

 
 What more, the CEO insists no defence land will be required to construct the flyovers. “A piece of land is all that would be needed for construction of pillars. No defence property will be affected whatsoever,” he stressed. “One flyover has been proposed between   en route to AOC Centre and Safilguda Railway-level Crossing. Commuters coming from Secunderabad station and Marredpally will proceed to either Safilguda and adjoining areas or towards All Saint’s Road via Gough Road. Once this flyover is completed, commuters need not cross Gough Road,” Chandrasekhar told TOI.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Similarly, a down ramp — like the ones built along the PVNR Expressway — has been mooted between Safilguda Railway-level Crossing to Wellington Road. Commuters coming from Safilguda and heading towards Secunderabad Club, Jubilee Bus Station and Parade Ground can get on to this ramp to reach their destination. “Construction cost on the flyovers and a down ramp should not swell beyond Rs 300 crore,” he said, adding that a decision on who will bear the expenditure would be decided later.
 
 “I had come up with this flyover proposal during a high-level meeting chaired by chief secretary   on April 20 at Secretariat. Once the state government gives the go-ahead for the proposal and Defence authorities clear misgivings, the plan should take off,” CEO said.
 
 Engineer-in-chief, state roads (transport, roads and buildings-T, R&B), P Ravinder Rao told TOI, “The   had asked the officials to submit a feasibility report in two weeks. In a day or two, a joint team of SCB, defence, T, R& B and   will inspect the site.”
 
 After inspection, a report will be submitted to principal secretary, T, R&B, for a final decision. “If everything goes as per plan, construction will be completed in a year. We are waiting for the vital decision to be taken by the Army and stakeholders,” a senior SCB official said. Defence officials from Telangana & Andhra Sub-Area, SCB, Transport, R&B are stakeholders. For now, Defence officals are firm on making Gough Road out of bounds for commuters from June 1morning.
 
 TIMES VIEW: The proposal for the flyovers is a good idea keeping in mind the local Army authorities’ plan to close Gough Road permanently. This will not only help all stakeholders, but also reduce travel time for commuters
 
