 is quite a famous author, who caters to the tricky preteen audience. Exploring topics like sex, masturbation, periods, racism, religion and evolving friendships through the confused minds of children, preteens and teens, her books have stayed popular though they are set in a different time. She is considered one of the first authors to write what is now called ' ' and has recived both criticism and praise for the topics she normalised in her books.

 Her books have been translated and republished worldwide across decades with various covers. Recently, a tweet featuring a   of her book, 
 gathered a lot of attention.
 
 
 
 
 The book is about a girl, Margaret and all the preteen problems she faces; her concern that she's not started her period, her interest in boys, her first bra etc. One of the themes of the book is religion and God. She often prays in the book and her prayers start with, "Are You There God? It's Me, Margaret", and she goes on to share what's on her mind and asks for forgiveness and help. Her mother and father have different beliefs and have given her the freedom to choose her religion, though grandparents push her to share their seperate beliefs. 
 
 The book was first published in 1970 and the new cover is rather misleading as it seems she's messaging God from her phone and it seems like God's typing a reply too! In her time, teens didn't have mobiles, let alone smartphones and the book features no deeply religious moment where she hears God reply to her prayers.
 
 
 
 
 The problem most people seem to have with the cover is that it's not the one they're familiar with. Seeing covers of your favourite childhood books change over time seems to undermine the meaning it had to you and overly modernising an old cover always seems wrong and even disrespectful to it's time.
 
 However, the reason books become classics is because the content is relevant or relatable despite the decade or even century it's read in. Since not everyone follows, never judge a book by it's cover and no teen gravitates towards dated covers, it's a good idea to design covers to better better attract an audience of a different time.
 
 Yes, the cover could be misleading but she does mention she feels close to God and the cover depicts a girl who feels close to God, like his answers are just a bit of patience away. In the rush to protest the book cover and mock the ways the illustrator decided to make it relatable to today's youth the angry fans seemed to have ignored how the clever design relates to the story and, for anyone who prays, the way prayers often feel.
 
 
 
 
 One point to note is that this change in no way impacts the content or plot, in fact depending on when you read the book the you might have read content that was edited from the original. Since the book came out, sanitary towels designs have changed to include adhesive and if the version of the book you've read includes her sticking a sanitary towel on rather than tying it, you've read the updated version. 
 
 If the content can be carefully edited to move with the times without impacting the plot, why not the cover? True readers know better than to judge a book by it's cover even if children don't and the design is clever and thought provoking.
 
