AHMEDABAD: The   is likely to deliver its final verdict on appeals against the special   court’s order convicting 32 persons including former minister   to life imprisonment in connection with the 2002  .

 Ninety-seven persons, mainly women and children, were killed at Naroda Patia one day after the Godhra carnage incident.
 
 In 2012, special judge Jyotsna Yagnik punished 32 persons including former minister Maya Kodnani and Bajrang Dal leader Babu Bajrangi and acquitted 29 others. Kodnani was awarded a 28-year jail term and Bajrangi was awarded imprisonment till his last breath. Ten persons got jail for 31 years, while the rest were handed down 24-year imprisonment.
 
 Appeals were filed by the convicts against the trial court order, by the probe agency – the Supreme Court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) seeking enhancement in punishment, and some of the victims against the acquittals.
 
 A bench headed by Justice Harsha Devani heard arguments from all three sides for more than eight months. Proceedings began on December 19, 2016 and concluded in August last year.
 
 With the final verdict on these appeals, the HC is likely to pass an order on Kodnani’s request to call witnesses including BJP national chief Amit Shah in her defence. Kodnani’s lawyers, however, did not press their demand to examine Shah during the course of the hearing. The HC judges had also visited the crime scene once.
 
 At present, of the 32 convicts, two persons — Kodnani and Kirpalsingh Chhabda — have been granted bail by the high court.
 
 After the appeals were filed in the HC, this case was became controversial after six judges — Justices Akil Kureshi, M R Shah, K S Jhaveri, G B Shah, Sonia Gokani and R H Shukla – recused themselves from hearing the appeals. Despite resistance from the SIT and the victims, Justice R R Tripathi decided to go ahead and hear Kodnani’s appeal expeditiously, by delinking it from other appeals. This took the issue to the SC, which stayed proceedings for a while. They resumed after Justice Tripathi’s retirement.
 
 This was the first case probed and prosecuted by the SIT in which it did not demand the death penalty for the convicts in its appeals. The SIT did not even seek enhancement of punishment for Kodnani on the grounds that it did not receive sanction to do so from the state government.
 
 City police has reinforced security arrangements at Naroda Patia. 
 
 
