MELBOURNE: The older   gets the more he likes to play down his chances of winning major titles. "I don't think a 36-year-old should be the favourite of a tournament, it should not be the case," the Australian Open's defending champion said, "I see things more relaxed at this late stage of my career."

 
 
 The Swiss superstar, 19-time major winner, looking for a sixth crown here, said he feels totally different coming into Australian Open this time when compared to how he felt last year. "This time I hope to win the first few rounds and get rolling. Last year I was just hoping to win. It was more of a let's-see-what-happens' kind of tournament. Maybesimilar to what Novak (Djokovic) or Stan (Wawrinka) or others are going through this year. It's like, let's just see what happens, I'm not at 100 per cent, but you never know in a week's time what's going to be happening. If you're in the draw, you give yourself a chance.
 
 
 
 
 "That's what happened for me last year. All ended up way better than I thought it would," Federer, who lent the 2017 Championship a touch of fairytale, clinching the title in an edge-of-the-seat affair against  , said. "It was the tournament of the year for me, no doubt about it. All the fivesetters, as well. Having no expectations was so nice after all these years of always having expectations."
 
 Federer, 36, the world No.2, who plays Slovenia's Bedene Aljaz, in a first meeting between the two, on Tuesday, shrugged aside the tag of favourite. "I feel somebody like a Rafa with the year that he's had, and Novak with the six titles he's had here, even if it's unknown how he's feeling… They could very well be the favorites too," he said.
 
 Federer - who has Frenchman   (29th seed), Canada's Milos Raonic (22nd), big serving American   (13th), giant Argentine Juan Martin Del Potro (12th) and Czech Tomas Berdych (19th) in his quarter - said he had his own set of problems to contend with. "My game, then to get through my section of the draw, that's my focus. Not the other players really further down the line," he added.
 
 Federer, who missed six months in 2016, but came back to win his first official competition in 2017 right here at Melbourne Park, says he enjoys the position he finds himself in this time. "It's nice that one year later I am No. 2 in the world and seeded highly."
 
