JAIPUR: Get ready to be penalized for spreading  ,   and malaria. The health department has sent a proposal to the state government to declare dengue, swine flu and malaria as notified diseases in the state. The draft has provisions to penalize those who are found to be harbouring mosquito larvae in their houses.

 A notified disease is one that’s required by law to be reported. “Declaring a disease notified is crucial to implement functional reporting. This should include mechanisms for the transmission of data from the community level to the national level. This will provide feedback on the programme’s efficacy and allow actions to be taken to improve areas of weakness,” says WHO.
 
 “Timely reporting is an essential requirement of a notified disease surveillance system designed to detect outbreaks,” according to WHO.
 
 A senior health department official said, “Three diseases have been proposed to be notified. We have initiated the process and sent the proposal to the state government.”
 
 Since,   has become an epicentre for dengue and swine flu, the health department has decided to notify these diseases to prevent any outbreak.
 
 “Notification of these diseases will allow officials to search houses for larvae and mosquitoes. Also, there are provisions for penalty if a person is found to be harbouring mosquitoes,” the official said.
 
 In a door-to-door survey, conducted by the health department in March for three days in the state, they found more than 55,000 sites in houses having mosquito larvae.
 
 The department is taking lessons from Punjab, Maharashtra and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, where dengue has already been declared as a notified disease. “We have studied the laws to declare dengue as a notified disease in Maharastra, Punjab and Dadar and Nagar Haveli. We have prepared the draft after studying their law,” the official said.
 
 According to the   (IDSP), Rajasthan has reported the highest number of swine flu cases this year. The IDSP report says, “1,511 cases of swine flu have been reported from across the country up to March 18. Out of these, 1,250 were reported from Rajasthan.”
 
 Besides, the state reported over 800 dengue cases up to March 12, with one fatality due to the disease.
 
 
