AHMEDABAD: A recent analysis of 850   in Ahmedabad, submitted to the   in late February this year, shows that approximately 18% of these accidents had turned fatal. Also, a large chunk of the accidents — minor, fatal or serious — involved  , accounting for 330 cases. If one pans over the municipal city limits, some 41 serious and fatal accidents had occurred on the main national and state highways that either pass right through the city or through the peripheral part of the city. Most of these stretches are devoid of pedestrian safety facilities and involve fast-moving vehicles. The accident data was collated between January and July 2017 and the sites were examined by an agency called called   which works for road safety.

 The report said that the maximum number of accidents were being reported in Krishnanagar, followed by Isanpur. The accident fatalities were highest between 6pm and midnight. Interestingly, many accidents occur in the night, especially during weekends, when there is no rush hour. The analysis also points out that two-wheeler riders and pedestrians were most frequently involved in accidents. While pedestrians are struck by two-wheeler riders the most, most two-wheeler riders are struck by other two-wheelers and cars, the study pointed out.
 
 The road safety study also shows how in the case of two-wheeler riders, accidents involving pedestrians form the second highest pool, 133 cases, while two-wheeler and car collisions are the highest — 201 cases.
 
 However, only 2% of two-wheeler rider fatalities involve accidents with pedestrians, and only 8% of car accident fatalities involve collisions with pedestrians. Of two-wheeler rider fatalities the report found that in the case of collisions with another two-wheeler there were 66% fatalities, the highest. In the case of collisions between a two-wheeler and a truck, two-wheeler rider fatalities were 35%. And in the cases of accidents involving a two-wheeler and a bus, two-wheeler rider fatalities were 26%.
 
 Data shows that of all fatalities from ‘unknown reasons’ or infrastructure shortfall, pedestrians suffered 67% deaths. In the case of accidents with minitrucks, pedestrians suffered 28% fatalities, and in case of truck accidents, 57% of pedestrians involved in the accidents died.
 
 
