 and Kiara Advani’s political drama, directed by   is a film awaited. The film’s promotional material has been received well not just by fans, but by the Telugu audience in general too. The film has grabbed attention right from its first leaked picture because it will see Mahesh Babu essay the role of a Chief Minister. The film’s jukebox features five songs composed by Devi Sri Prasad and penned by Ramajogayya Sastry. 

 First on the album is the number with the catchy tune and music   (The Song of Bharat). Crooned by David Simon, the number has lyrics that highlight Mahesh Babu’s character Bharat’s attitude as a political leader. It is the music and the hook line that dominate this number more than the lyrics and the vocals. It remains to be seen if the song translates effectively on-screen.
 
 Second on the album is the much hyped I Don’t Know crooned by the Bollywood actor   Akhtar. This song marks the singing debut of the Rock On star in Telugu and while Farhan breathes life into the number with his energy; this one’s a typical   number with nothing new to offer in terms of music, tune or lyrics. None-the-less, the tune and Cuban beats are catchy in parts, despite the number missing the typical raw Farhan Akhtar flavour.
 Next up is the much-loved Vachaadayyo Saami featuring Kailash Kher and Divya Kumar’s vocals. This number features a traditional tune, lyrics, tune and music that makes it seem like the melodic equivalent 
 of comfort food. Kailash Kher and Divya Kumar’s music apart from the music and lyrics are the highlight of this number that we’re curious to watch on-screen.
 
 Ide Kalala Vunnade featuring actress   Jeremiah’s vocals is a peppy retrieve from an otherwise intense album that Bharat Ane Nenu has been so far. Foot tapping music, tune and lyrics, Andrea’s edgy vocals make this number a fun listen. The bass guitar bit in this number deserves a special mention for setting the mood of the album. 
 
 Last on the album is Yazin Nizar and Rita’s number O Vasumathi which features romantic poetic lyrics and DSP-esque music and tune. The vocals too seem to blend well in the number though there’s nothing much to write home about this one. Fun to listen to, the number is good for a one-time hear.
 
 On the whole, the album of Bharat Ane Nenu is a mixed bag of intense songs and DSP-flavoured peppy numbers. Bharat Ane Nenu and Vachaadayyo Saami are at the heart of this album, with I Don’t Know, Ide Kalala Vunnade and O Vasumathi being typical DSP numbers purely for his fans. This album’s good enough for a one-time listen. 
 
 
