NEW DELHI: Acting on the Law Commission’s recommendations, the Centre is planning to bring stricter rules under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act to stop cruel practices against egg-laying hens (layers) and broiler chickens.

 The move is also aimed at addressing global concerns over   which has been exporting poultry products to many countries.
 
 Pointing out that eating chicken and eggs of a poultry where the chickens are kept in a cage is harmful to human health, the Commission had, in its report to the law ministry last year, highlighted the need to maintain cleanliness and hygiene in poultry farms. 
 
 It had also recommended certification of poultry farms by the animal husbandry departments of the states and suggested bringing rules for broiler chicken and egg-laying hens to this effect. The regulation is expected to be in place where a distinction is drawn between produce obtained from cage-free egg farming and the one obtained from battery-cage (confinement) farming.
 
 Besides the law panel, the National   (NEERI) too had looked into the issue and suggested stricter rules. It had even come out with draft rules.
 
 The Commission referred to various representations while pressing for new rules. It said, “The representations brought to the Commission’s notice the unhygienic conditions of the poultry industry and the effect of battery-cage confinement on the well-being of the birds.” It also referred to the increase of fatal diseases like cancer due to unhygienic conditions the birds are kept in. 
 
 “Bringing regulations for producing these products in a hygienic manner will also help in increasing export volume,” said an official, adding that poultry is one of the fastest growing segments of the agricultural sector in India. 
 
 Production of eggs and broilers has been rising at a rate of 8 to 10%. As a result, India is now the world’s fifth largest egg producer and the 18th largest producer of broilers. 
 
 According to Agricultural and Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), poultry meat is the fastest growing component of global meat demand, and India is experiencing rapid growth in its poultry sector. 
 
 The country had exported 4,49,527 metric tonnes of poultry products worth Rs 531.65 crore during 2016-17. Oman, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Russia and Maldives were major export destinations of Indian poultry products during the year.
 
