GHAZIABAD: Nearly 50 shanties were gutted in a fire that broke out in a slum at   in Indirapuram on Tuesday afternoon.

 The fire raged as a series of cylinder blasts took place within minutes of each other, leaving around 30 families, mostly migrant labourers from Bihar, homeless. It took two hours and 10 fire tenders to bring the blaze under control. This spot is barely 20 metres from where a fire caused by a   destroyed 100 shanties on April 3.
 
 Sushil Kumar, who had been living in one of the shanties for seven years with his wife and three children, said, “I had returned from work for lunch when I heard a loud explosion. I rushed out and saw a mangled metal heap and LPG cylinders flying into the air like missiles before landing in the midst of shanties.
 
 “Before I could react, I heard a couple of more explosions and the fire began to spread within no time. I caught hold of my wife’s hand and ran to safety leaving all my belongings behind,” added Sushil who works in Jaipuria Mall.
 
 Another resident, Sikha, a domestic help, said, “I went to work in a nearby society in Ahimsa Khand 2 when I heard back-to-back explosions and I could see smoke rising from the area where I lived. I rushed to the spot to see my shanty going up in flames along with all other hutments. My earning, savings clothes, utensils have all gone,” said a teary-eyed Sikha who hails from Beetiah district in Bihar.
 
 Chief fire officer Sunil Kumar Singh said, “We were informed about the fire at 1.10pm and rushed a fire tender from Vaishali fire station. However, we soon realised that we would need more tenders so nine more were rushed from Kotwali, Sahibabad and even Noida. No causality was reported except for two buffaloes that sustained minor injuries.”
 
 ADM (city) Himanshu Gautam said a cylinder blast was the reason behind the fire. “According to preliminary probe, a cylinder blast triggered the fire. This was followed by at least 15 cylinder blasts and were instrumental in spreading the fire,” he added.
 
 
