Forty people, including eight policemen, were injured during instances of stone-pelting in various parts of   district on Wednesday. 

  Two of the injured were in a critical condition.
 
 Among the policemen who suffered injuries were  's deputy superintendent of police (DySP) R R Patil and city DySP Prashant Amrutkar. All the injured have been admitted to the   civil hospital.
 
 The mobs began protesting right from morning. A motorcycle was set on fire at   and shops, hotels and parked cars were damaged in stone-pelting in the Gangavesh, Sambhajinagar, Shahupuri and Rankala areas. 
 
 Led by Sena MLA from the Kolhapur Rajesh  , right-wing demonstrators opposed to the violence during the bandh gathered along   and made their way towards Shivaji Chowk earlier in the day. For two hours, the police made repeated appeals to the groups to disperse. When they refused, the police resorted to a mild lathicharge and burst teargas shells.
 
 Explaining his stand, Kshirsagar said, "The   has condemned the violence that took place at Koregaon Bhima on January 1. But when all business activities were shut on Wednesday as a response to the bandh call, miscreants continued to vandalise shops and cars that were parked on the road. They also pelted stones at buildings in the city, including one belonging to a regional language newspaper. It is the responsibility of the state government and district administration to keep a check on these groups. Some activists gathered to protest against the violence and were urging me to lead them. I joined them while appealing for peace at the same time." 
 
 The police, meanwhile, said the situation had returned to normalcy. Superintendent of police   said, "We have deployed a heavy police force at all major spots in the district. We have deployed additional forces at sensitive areas in Kolhapur city. We are carrying out panchnamas at locations where private properties were damaged."
 
 Guardian minister Chandrakant Patil made an appeal for calm. "This is the land of Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj, who gave a message of social equality in Kolhapur. I appeal to all to help maintain peace and not resort to violence."
 
 
