BARNALA: The   of the Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) and police had to face the wrath of villagers on Tuesday morning when its team had gone to Sandhu Kalan village in   district to take some persons into custody for defaulting in paying penalties.

 The residents laid siege to some vehicles of the police team and did not allow them to take two of their fellow villagers into custody. A total of 86 tubewells were allegedly being run on ‘illegal’ power connections in the village. The PSPCL authorities had imposed penalties, ranging from Rs 1.60 lakh to Rs 3 lakh, depending on the capacity of the tubewell motors. Three of the farmers have deposited penalty and cases of five are pending in courts, whereas 78 farmers have defaulted in paying fine. 
 
 Meanwhile, farmers alleged that they had deposited the requisite charges to the PSPCL for new agriculture pumpset connections in 2015 through the then JE,   Singh. They claimed that the latter did not deposit the money with the PSPCL but gave them access to power connections. A case of fraud was registered against Gurdeep, who had been arrested, the farmers said. 
 
 Earlier, when the team of Patiala anti-theft police station, led by ASI Baljit Singh, reached Sandhu Kalan, an announcement was made by some villagers from the village gurdwara public address system to lay siege to the team. They gheraoed the team and did not allow the police to take farmers   and Dashan Singh. This was followed by heated exchanges with the police and villagers even managed to hold them back for some time.
 
 Sandhu Kalan resident   said 86 farmers had paid the requisite amount to   in 2015 for new connections. “The JE provided them connections but did not deposit the money with the PSPCL, so we were told that our connections are illegal. Since then, we have been approaching the authorities concerned to regularise the tubewell connections,” he alleged.
 
 The SDO of the PSPCL at Bhadaur, Lakhbir Singh, said that, “Farmers claim that they had paid the money to the JE before the connections were released but the amount was not deposited with the PSPCL and these connections were declared illegal. The authorities have imposed penalties on villagers.”
 
 
