CHENNAI: Unable to convince their political bosses of the need to resettle squatters along   for a storm water drain project, Greater Chennai Corporation’s administrators have instead altered the project’s design to accommodate encroachments.

 Since 2015, the corporation has been executing   (ISWD) project in the   and   river basins. The project, estimated to cost Rs 1,101.43 crore, is aimed at reducing water stagnation during monsoon by constructing a network of micro and macro-sized storm drains and connecting it to flood carriers like the Cooum and Adyar rivers. ISWD for the Cooum basin covers the Nandambakkam, Ambattur Sidco, Nolambur and Padikuppam canals.
 
 In the initial resettlement action plan (RAP) for Padikuppam canal, 231 project-affected families (PAFs) were identified. PAFs included 158 residences and 73 commercial establishments who had encroached upon the canal.
 
 In the revised supplementary RAP, the corporation blamed “political unwillingness” for the change of plans. “Despite the best efforts taken by (the corporation)...most PAFs are refusing to move out,” the report said.
 
 To accommodate the encroachments, the corporation decided against its initial proposal to widen the canal’s width from the existing 10m to 22m. The justification offered by the corporation takes into account the canal’s discharge capacity should there be a rainfall of 68mm per hour. “The run off for a maximum rainfall of 68mm/hour is 72.53cusecs. At the existing width, the canal’s carrying capacity is 120cusecs at maximum velocity,” the report noted.
 
 The corporation also explained that the additional 12m width was proposed to facilitate movement of vehicles during ISWD construction. “It was observed that materials can be easily carted to the canal site through an adjacent road (and) via the canal as it is dry (except during monsoon),” the report added.
 
 However, the corporation failed to take into account that the canal is a major sewarage carrier courtesy of illegal outlets. TOI’s survey of the canal’s bank showed that the waterway has been abused by way of dumping garbage and creating multiple illegal points of sewage entry. Attempts to contact Ambattur legislator   of the AIADMK for comment, failed.
 
 
