Ludhiana: A man, who was found hanging by the ceiling fan at his house on April 26, was allegedly murdered by his wife and her paramour.

 The police arrested the duo on Saturday.
 
 The interrogation revealed that the woman gagged her husband to death with a pillow and hung the body later with the help of her paramour to make it look like a suicide case.
 
 However, the autopsy report cleared the picture.
 
 Division number 4 police arrested Vandana, 26, and her paramour Gautam, 23, on Saturday and registered a case under Sections 302 (murder). Gautam hailed from Kendrapara of Odisha.
 
 Police said the accused have confessed to their crime. They told police that they wanted to flee the city to evade police action.
 
 ADCP-I Gurpreet Singh Walia said on Thursday the police got information about the death of 26-year-old Patit Pavan of Jassiyan road. The police reached the spot and started an investigation.
 
 The official said initially the deceased’s wife told police that her husband was under depression as the couple did not have a child even after seven years of marriage. “On Thursday, he committed suicide by hanging self, she had claimed. The police sent the body for the postmortem whose report suggested that Patit Pavan did not die due to hanging,” the ADCP said.
 
 The official added, “Meanwhile, when police got the autopsy report, Vandana had gone missing from the house which made cops suspicious. The police formed separate teams to nab her. On Saturday, the police traced her near the railway station with her paramour Gautam.”
 
 The woman told the police that her husband and Gautam were friends. Gautam and Vandana had developed illicit relationship. A few days ago, her husband found them in objectionable condition and scolded her for the same.
 
 Afterwards, she hatched a conspiracy to kill her husband. On Thursday night, when Patit Pavan returned home, he was in inebriated condition and she found it easy to carry out the murder. She called in her paramour and both of them gagged him with a pillow. To make it look like a suicide case, they hung the body by the ceiling fan with help of ‘saree’.
 
 ASI Kapil Sharma, in-charge at Jagatpuri police post, said the police have recovered the saree and pillow used in crime from the house. The police have registered the case following the statement of Sudarshan Malik, brother of the deceased.
 
 
