MUMBAI: The underground metro rail will impact the city’s groundwater system as a project of this size and magnitude will affect its natural flow, an Australia-based water resources management specialist has warned.

 "Just how significant the impact be, and what will be the impact post construction can only be determined with detailed modelling,’’ said the expert   F.  . Metro rail officials did not respond when asked to comment on this independent report.
 
 Punthakey gave his report recently when he was approached by some concerned Zoroastrians to give his opinion following fears that the metro line could affect some of the community’s sacred ancient wells in south Mumbai.
 
 The oldest one, the Bhikha Behram well near  , was built in 1725. The underground line will pass near this well and several other wells situated in two fire temples situated at the Princess Street junction in south Mumbai.
 
 ``Modifying the route of the Metro can only be suggested after a detailed study of the groundwater system - which has not been undertaken to date. Once the scenarios are undertaken then one can decide how significant will be the impact. Make no mistake - there will be an impact on the groundwater system,’’ said the Sydney-based expert.
 
  ( ) officials had earlier assured community members that the tunneling work will not affect the wells or ground water. They said the tunnel will be 70 metres away from the Bhikha Behram well.
 
 Punthakey said the impact on the flow of ground water will depend on the depth of the tunneling for the metro project in the vicinity of the well. ``Just how much of an impact is hard to say as the MMRC’s environmental impact assessment (EIA) is woefully inadequate when it comes to groundwater impacts,’’ said the report.
 
 "The EIA presents some graphs showing the data from 1998 to 2007. The graphs just show some basic zones where groundwater levels have changed over time. These graphs are not the normal way groundwater graphs are displayed. The more reasonable and accepted method is to present graphs with contours,’’ he said. Other than contours, he added, there is ``no presentation of a single hydrograph of individual wells so there is no way of judging existing trends and impacts’’.
 
 He said a detailed 3-D groundwater model be developed that covers adequately the proposed metro route as well as surrounding areas. ``After calibration of the groundwater model, scenarios should be undertaken which encompass the proposed impacts. This is normal practice in Australia for any major project that is likely to impact on the groundwater flow system,’’ said Punthakey.
 
 He recommended a comprehensive monitoring strategy comprising at least 100 wells along the proposed route of the metro be undertaken. The MMRC is monitoring groundwater levels and water quality for only a handful of wells.
 
 "The EIA proposes to monitor within a 100 m corridor of the construction site. This is inadequate as groundwater systems are large and continuous, so the monitoring should be really extensive to cover the proposed metro corridor, as well as temporally adequate monitoring should be put in place,’’ said the report.
 
