Pune: Three ideas from Pune were among the winners of the   challenge this year. 

 The ideas, developed by two startups incubated at National Chemical Laboratory’s Venture Centre, include a high-performance running shoe that provides almost five times more impact protection than a regular midsole, a premium athletic sock made out of bamboo to absorb more impact, provide odour control and allow better perspiration, and customized yet oxygen therapy for chronic lung disease patients. 
 
 “Heelium Sports is a sports footwear and wearables startup that pitched two of their products to investors at Power of Ideas,” said Pinky Raychaudhuri, associate manager (incubation), at Venture Centre. “Their flagship product, currently in development, is a high performance running shoe with a novel midsole technology that provides almost five times more impact protection than a regular midsole. The second product is a premium athletic sock made out of bamboo to absorb more impact, provide odour control and allow better perspiration. The socks were launched commercially in December 2017, and are available on online platforms such as Amazon,” she added.
 
 “Genrich Membranes is a social enterprise working on a simple, efficient, affordable and customized Oxygen Therapy solution for patients with chronic lung diseases,” she added.
 
 Prateek Sharma, co-founder and chief executive officer of Heelium, said in a written statement, “We are particularly excited about our association with IIM-Ahmedabad and CIIE, and their team of in-house mentors and industry experts we met during the contest. In the next few months, we hope to scale our sales operations and expand our distribution to more cities using the seed funding received.”
 
 Kharul, director and chief executive officer of Genrich, said, “In India, there are well over 50 million patients with respiratory problems. Moreover, almost 20% of all premature babies born in India die within 28 days. The recent tragic deaths of 159 infants at Gorakhpur hospital highlight the gravity of the problem. All of these patients need oxygen therapy, which is not accessible to those from rural, remote, and semi-urban areas and sometimes even cities. We aim to improve the lifestyle and life-expectancy of these patients using our method.”
 
 
