MUMBAI: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis plans create 72,000 jobs in the rural sector to tackle the agrarian crisis despite a debt burden of more than Rs 4 lakh crore. The new posts will be created in the departments of agriculture, rural development, fisheries and irrigation to ensure that all the pending projects are completed in a time-bound period. In the budget session, Fadnavis had given an assurance that his government will draft a action plan to fill up vacant posts, which may cost the   exchequer around Rs 67,000 crore. 

 The biggest challenge before Fadnavis is to halt the sudden spurt in farmers’ suicides in Vidarbha and Marathwada. Fadnavis undertook a series of measures to tackle farmers’ suicides, but the results are not visible. Now with the recruitment of 36,000 people in the first phase, Fadnavis is expecting that in the days to come, the agriculture, irrigation and finance departments will identify farmers in distress and draft an action plan for their rehabilitation. Earlier then chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh made efforts to study the problem of agrarian crisis, but did not succeed. 
 
 Committees were appointed to draft an action plan, but it did not yield results. Sushilkumar Shinde, Ashok Chavan and Prithviraj Chavan also grappled with the issue. But as a chief minister with a rural background, Fadnavis has identified specific areas that need to be targeted and hence new recruitments will be made in key rural sectors. However, the moot question pertains to resource mobilization. At a juncture when debt has crossed the Rs 4 lakh crore mark and leading financial institutions are insisting on a drastic cut in expenditure on wages, it remains to be seen how Fadnavis will mobilize resources.
 
 Minister missing in action
 
 It seems that the   in J J Hospital has collapsed and security personnel deployed on campus have failed to rein in anti-social elements and patients’ relatives. In the wake of attacks on doctors across the state earlier, Fadnavis had assured that adequate number of security personnel would be deployed in government-run hospitals. True to his promise, security personnel were deployed, but they seem to be of little use. Recently, relatives of a patient went on a rampage, beat up doctors and paramedical staff in the presence of security personnel. 
 
 Following Saturday’s incident, an inquiry was ordered by JJ Hospital dean  . He also convened a meeting of department heads to take stock of the situation. One of the reasons for the present state of affairs in the medical education department is lack of supervision at all levels, failure to convene regular meetings of the staff and poor interpersonal communication. Medical teachers and students said that the dean is inaccessible, while medical education minister Girish Mahajan is busy with his own assignments. 
 
 After the incident, medical teachers and students were expecting that Mahajan would visit J J Hospital to take stock of the situation and pacify the agitating doctors, but it appears that he has different priorities. Some student leaders spoke to Mahajan’s office, but they were told that he is not available, as he is busy with the Palghar Lok Sabha by-election. “When there is expansion in the field of medical education, it is high time Fadnavis entrusts the medical education department to independent people,” said a former dean.
 
 
