Nagpur: At a meeting held on Sunday, state minister for medical education Ravindra Chavan directed Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMCH) authorities to start bar-coding bio-medical waste and labelling waste generated at the hospital within three months.  The meeting comes on the heels of chief minister Devendra Fadnavi’s direction to inspect disposal of bio-medical waste at medical colleges run by directorate of medical education and research (DMER) in the city.  It was also decided that a three-member bio-medical waste management committee would be formed to look after waste disposal and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) officials would inspect the premises once in three months. “The issue of biomedical waste must be addressed at the city level. Nagpur Municipal Corporation is the nodal agency responsible for collecting waste generated at hospitals in the city,” said Chavan.  Presently, Superb Hygienic Disposal, a private firm, collects bio-medical wastes from city hospitals. The firm has been asked to collect bio-medical waste from hospitals generating waste more than 50kg. “We have also directed the company to enable a tracking system for waste collection in 12 zones in the city within 15 days. It was decided that a toll free number should be set up, allowing citizens to register complaints in case they see negligence in waste management,” Chavan said.  He added that officials at both medical colleges would set up two garbage units for separate storage of bio-medical and general waste. A review meet will be held after three months. A case will be filed against any official found to be negligent. IGGMCH dean Dr Anuradha Shrikhande, Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade, MLAs Prakash Gajbhiye, Vikas Kumbhare, Sudhakar Deshmukh, secretary of medical education Sanjay Deshmukh, MPCB senior regional officer Rahul Wankhede and others attended the meeting. Recently, MLC Nago Ganar, Girish Vyas and Anil Sole had questioned improper disposal of bio-medical waste at GMCH in the state assembly.  The minister also visited GMCH’s trauma care centre and Government Ayurved College. As per sources, the minister was disappointed with state of affairs at the college after inspecting the first and second floors and interacting with a few patients.