ALLAHABAD: The Allahabad high court on Friday granted bail to   in a criminal case in which he along with others is alleged of running an educational institution in the name of   in Allahabad without obtaining due recognition. 

 Lal has been in jail since December 2017. 
 
 An FIR was registered against Lal under various sections of IPC, including 420 (cheating) and 120B (conspiracy), at   police station of Allahabad on the basis of the information provided by one Diwakar Nath Tripathi, BJP vice-president (Varanasi region). 
 
 It was alleged in the FIR that for the past several years the applicant and other accused have been running an institution in the name of   Christian Public School Junior Branch, without having recognition from the authorities.
 
 Moreover, the building is in dilapidated condition and does not fulfill prescribed norms. Also, the institution is being run by a registered society, namely Diocesan Education Board of the Diocese of Lucknow.
 
 Granting bail to Lal, Justice Manoj Kumar Gupta directed that the applicant (Lal) shall surrender his passport, if any, before the trial judge within a week.
 
 He also directed that he shall not leave the country without the permission of trial judge and shall also not tamper with the evidence or threaten the witnesses.
 
 Further, he shall remain present before the court on each date fixed, either personally or through his counsel, the court added. Earlier, during the court proceedings, the counsel for the applicant submitted that the institution is being run by the applicant strictly in accordance with legal provisions. He submitted that the Society which runs the institution is having a minority character and under the Constitution, it has the right to run and manage the educational institutions of its choice. 
 
 Moreover, the provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009, would not apply to a minority institution. 
 
 Also, the applicant has been in jail since December 2017 and is suffering from chronic diseases.
 
 The bail application was opposed by additional advocate general   on the ground that the applicant has a long criminal history and has been involved in a large number of cases of forgery. Hence, he does not deserve bail.
 
 
