GUWAHATI: Opposition Congress forced an adjournment of the House after Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami refused to allow former chief minister Tarun Gogoi from speaking on the crisis at the Assam Women's University. 

 Goswami-later in consultation with parliamentary affairs minister Chandra Mohan Patowary and education minister   his ruling, allowing Gogoi to speak when the House reassembled after an adjournment of 15 minutes plunging the assembly back into chaos. 
 
 Gogoi was engaged in a heated exchange with his once blue-eyed boy and now BJP leader Himanta Biswa   over the women's university where students have been on a strike for more than three weeks demanding appointment of a permanent VC.
 
 The varsity at   was set up in 2014 by a state legislation initiated by Sarma himself when he was the education minister in the previous Congress government. The tiff between the two leaders was over the functioning of a mentor in place of a VC since its inception.
 
 After days of an intense war of words, the former CM on Thursday admitted he had made a mistake by appointing a mentor in place of a VC when he was the chief minister. The Act does not have a provision for a mentor. "The former chief minister had violated the provisions. We are now trying to set things right at the varsity," said Sarma.
 
 Congress legislators stormed into the well of the House, shouting 'inqilab zindabad' and disrupted proceedings for nearly an hour. The ruckus started at the end of question hour when Gogoi, through a point of order, stood up to clarify the allegations made by the state education minister against him over the varsity. The BJP-led government's decision to relegate AWU as a technical institution has sparked off a major controversy.
 
 "We have been discussing for quite some time on whether to make it an affiliated university and how to regularize the degrees obtained by past students and how to help the present lot," said Sarma. He added that the university might be transformed into a centre of excellence for women.
 
 
