Actress   believes in taking a strong stand for whatever she believes in. The St Stephen’s, Delhi, alumna doesn’t mince her words when she speaks out against trolls on the social media and the hypocrisy of the Indian mindset which blames Bollywood for rapes. In an interaction with us during her outing to the Bada Imaambada in Lucknow, Richa spoke to us about how she loves the city and how she dealt with trolls after she and beau, Lucknowite Ali Fazal, made their relationship public. 

 How is it coming back to the city to shoot for another film after Daas Dev for a lengthy period of time?
 It’s always lovely to be in Lucknow. Mujhe toh bahaana chahiye hota hai yahan aane ka. As it is I love this city, it’s people, the place, the food, everything. I always have a very good time in Lucknow. It’s always so much fun doing anything here. I remember when we were shooting or Daas Dev. It didn’t feel like work at all. Har roz sham ko toh hum party kar lete thay. In fact, I remember when we used to shoot in   for Daas Dev, I used to come back to Lucknow every night because the hotels here were better. And I love Lucknow and I didn’t want to leave the city at all. So every day I used to drive two and a half hour to Ayodhya. And I being from Delhi and now living in Mumbai, where the roads are always crowded and I don’t get to drive very often, I would tell my driver here ki tum hato, main gaadi chalaungi. After we would cross the city, I would threaten the poor guy and take the wheel from him and I would drive all the way to Ayodhya. And twice it happened that Rahul (Bhat) and I would race on the highway, I in a deadbeat car, not that it is recommended. I would be like Rahul tere ko dikhati hoon ki who’s a better driver. And this one time, Rahul’s car was a new one and mine about 7-8 years old. And I was winning and suddenly I saw Rahul stop and then I realised ki meri gaadi se dhuaan nikal raha tha. Humne itni tez driving kari thi ki gaadi ka engine baith gaya tha. But I’m happy that we could shoot here and have these kinds of experiences. Even now, when I’m shooting for Anubhav Sinha’s film, it’s all so much fun. 
 
 Lucknow also happens to be your beau. Ali Fazal’s hometown.
 Haan, of course. But that’s not just why I love the city. Kuchh hai yahan pe. 
 
 So what makes you and Ali click?
 See, Ali and I met in   while we were shooting the first part, and we became friends. And that just sort of developed. It’s funny how I was sort of set in my mind that I will not be able to date an actor. But then Ali is an aberration in the film industry. He’s very well brought up, very sensitive, very well educated and he has a world view. And he has talents other than acting – he writes well, he takes lovely photographs, and he’s a thinker, a philosopher. We have a lot of common interests. I would say we are good friends, actually. You can say, we’re almost best friends, which is a great thing, I think. Abhi main yahan hoon toh kabhi bhi mujhe unke ghar ka khaana bhi mil jaata hai. Ali keeps telling me where to go and what to do in Lucknow, which is also great. 
 
  
  A complete foodie at heart, Richa also had Lucknow’s famous Basket chaat and paani ke batashe (Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 
 And you also got trolled when you made your relationship public.
 Yes, badly! It surprised me that people could be so petty. They would comment on our religion our castes, and all that rubbish. But then I don’t feel scared of people who troll because most people are now paid to do that. It’s become a political weapon now. And I usually reply to trolls to make an example out of them. Like recently somebody was trying to troll me and I made a case study of him that look this is what a troll looks like. They’ll have a vague name like @1235 or XYZ and they’ll have a particular kind of display picture, particular kind of slogan and very rabble kind of tweets. And since it’s a business now, they are paid Rs 10 for every tweet. So I told him I’ll give you Rs 100 if you stop trolling people for a day. And the guy promptly blocked me. Then there was another one which said that how dare actresses like you speak about rape. You are the women who cause rapes because of the clothes you wear and the films you do. So I looked at his profile and saw that he had only been posting porn from his handle. So I started a hashtag called ‘Yotrollbesosanskari’. Abusing me and my family and making fun of my surname and then posting porn on your handle! This is their kind of hypocrisy we see in the society these days. People say a lot of things ever since we’ve become public about 
 our relationship.
 
 You were also trolled for tweeting about the   and the Unnao rape cases.
 Yes, kuchh bhi likhte hain log. In fact, I also had my friends in the industry start a movement to get the victims justice. I seriously believe, if we’re figuring out that social media is affecting policy and national discourse and the press is picking it up, then we should work on this and do something where everybody from different fields comes together for a cause. Like I asked my friends civilians, normal people who have no political agenda to join in. Everybody has a right to voice their opinion, I did it too. It really makes me feel ashamed me to hear that people are using religion to defend rapists. Why can’t we have the strictest of punishment for rape? Especially of minors. I hate it when India makes headlines for rape and riots news globally. Dil dehel jaata hai yaar!
 
 Talking of having opinions, you are known for having very strong ones. Does that make you feel out of place, especially in Bollywood where opinions are seldom voiced?
 I still feel out of place in the industry. I am routinely told that oh, you sound too intelligent, people are intimated by you! And I just feel that they feel this maybe because they don’t know me. I feel I am the softest person and I do so many sensitive things for my friends and colleagues. My friends all adore me, all over the world. And people often tell me that I’ve managed to stay the same despite all the paraphernalia. And I truly believe that one should be authentic. Especially in your craft. Because if you’re lying, then the camera catches it very fast. So I don’t ever want to be caught by the trappings of being an actor. I get so involved in my make-up, my hair that I start ignoring human beings. There are so many examples of people who have changed but I don’t think they are happy. I want to be happy, I want a normal life.
 
  
  Richa Chadha in Lucknow (BCCL./ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 You’ve had a fairly successful run in Bollywood so far. How important is success to you?
 Success is important to me. And in my case, success is even more important to me because I am not a star kid and I’m definitely not someone who’s compromised on my moral fiber or even on the quality of the work I’ve done largely, to get here. And I think my success will be symbolic in the sense that when people see me they will say and think that if she can do it I can do it too. I want people to dream and to feel like it’s possible because it’s really difficult. But if there’s more of us and the quality of cinema changes, the filmmakers are forced to look at us. And my motto in life is the same as Al Pacino’s that ‘be so good that they can’t ignore you’. That’s why always try to do. And I also haven’t take the quick route to success because I think that’s a very flash in the pan approach. I never wanted to be someone to be told how pretty she is, do some latka-jhatkas and then two years later you hear she’s married some billionaire and has three triplets or whatever. That’s not who I want to be. I want to be somebody involved in society, in change. I want to be like a role model in the true sense. As someone having substance. And I think I will achieve all of this, someday.
 
 Have you faced difficulties in reaching where you are?
 I still face difficulties. I got rejected from a film recently because they wanted a gori-chitti ladki. My manager was told that Richa is beautiful, talented but we want a fair girl. My manager said you use a different lighting or make-up but they said, gori ladki chahiye! So I just feel that this discrimination happens so much. Priyanka Chopra’s spoken about it internationally but yahan pe bhi hota hai.
 
 First Rose McGowan spoke out against harassment in Hollywood, then   in the South and now Meesha Shaf in Pakistan, do you think we’ll ever have #metoo movement in Bollywood and have someone in Bollywood talk about harassment like these women have?
 I don’t think we will have a #metoo thing in Bollywood. Not for the next 10-12 years, at least. In fact, I wrote a big blog about it. In Bollywood, it’s very difficult. If in Hollywood it can take people 2-3 decades to come out and speak, yahan ka kya bolen. Wahan pe people have royalty, they have the cushioning of a union. They have all kinds of protection. I mean if they become old, the union also gives them a pension. And the system there is so much to protect their own interests. Here there is nothing, so the minute somebody speaks, they’ll lose all their livelihood. So whistleblowers are not treated kindly in India, forget Bollywood. And in this prevalent culture where victims are only shamed and blamed, when rape victim’s families are being murdered, how do you expect justice for someone who’s suffered, a what they call, a minor assault or harassment.
 
 But would you agree that Bollywood objectifies women?
 In some cases yes, I agree Bollywood objectifies women. There’s definite titillation when women themselves have to be wary. But on the other hand we can’t be prudes. One of the nava rasas in acting is that of shringaar. Our heritage comes from that and we have to use that aspect in our performances. But to blame Bollywood for rapes is like saying your society is perfect and Bollywood is the corrupting agent. People have used women as pawns for time immemorial. So women have been used as pawns to settle scores since centuries, so why blame Bollywood only? Why do you rape and mutilate small girls and women. You have a problem, you go out and sort it. That’s not Bollywood’s doing. It’s so convenient ki filmon mein ho raha hai isliye society mein ho raha hai. But people don’t realize that films show a mirror to the society.
 
 So would you do a say  ?
 I would, but I would do it differently. With more dignity. I did cabaret. I would make it more sensuous but in a more dignified way. See actresses in the past were doing extremely sexy and amazing poses and dances but they never looked vulgar. Like look at Helenji. Covered from head to toe, wearing the weirdest costumes with fox tails tied on her back, white lenses and god knows what all but she performed all those cabarets with so much dignity.   in Saheb Biwi Aur Ghulam, drunk but with so much dignity, Madhubala singing Aaiye Meherbaan. Sex appeal lies in your eyes, not in your body or in how you conduct yourself. Take pictures of heroines from the 60s and take pictures of actresses from the 90s and now, of the instagrams of today. See how everything is about being sexy. In the previous years, the actresses are all smiling now it’s all about giving that come hither look and pouting. It doesn’t have to be so unidimensional.
 
 Talking about Daas Dev, how much do you identify with your character Paro in real life? 
 The character of Paro is very progressive in this film. She’s not going to burn a diya and dance in melancholy. She’s going to open the door and drive out the minute Devdas shows her the class angle and become his political opponent, eventually. That’s quite how I too am in real life. In the novel and other films made on it, Devdas is a man who is not very evolved. He’s just smoking drinking and wallowing in self pity. He’s born into a wealthy family with a silver spoon in his mouth. So there’s no reason for him to suffer and I can’t date a guy like that in life, ever. But I could definitely help him become from daas to dev! 
 
 
