At 64, films don’t happen without a fair share of self-introspection, or so he tells us. This is when there’s a feeling that time is running out or more could have been done in the years gone by. Reason why   has decided never to return to Byomkesh, which gave him big numbers but zero satisfaction, and tell his own stories. At a café, over black coffee, what poured out was wisdom beyond years. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 Despite whatever is going on in one’s life — the crisis, disturbance, violence — the characters introspect; there’s self-realisation. My crisis and that of the characters is the same. I want to tell the stories of my city, the sufferings, the little joys, friendship, love, loss — for me, it’s coming back to that. I moved away from the kind of songs I wrote, the kind of films I made. I tried to do more populist work and live up to the expectations of the box office. At 64, I realise time is running out. So, it was important for me to tell my stories. Also, there was this realisation that I had to burn my bridges with Byomkesh. Earlier, when a film didn’t work, I would do a Byomkesh. That security had to go. With music too, it’s the same. Songs like Majhi re, Taniya, Chupi chupi raat happened, then Hemanta did not have music, Ganesh Talkies was not our kind of music;   would do a much better job. With Ami Ashbo Phirey, I’m trying to get back to my kind of music, my kind of characters — not ones who wear dark glasses — characters who have broken rules, are in crisis today and cannot handle that.
 
 
 It’s not my cinema. I wanted to work with Bangla sahitya, build a franchise, but that is not me. My signature is in my songs, in Bong Connection, Madly Bangalee, Ranjana Ami Ar Ashbona, Chalo Let’s Go. My films should be dealing with promiscuous relationships, adultery, rape, violence — in my way. A lot of people can sing Rabindrasangeet, baul, their songs; I can sing only my songs. Satyajit Ray and Tarun Majumdar did, and even my peers can do a thriller, a comedy… I can’t. I enjoy making urban films. With Byomkesh, my satellites were selling high, I was competing with `4 crore films, but numbers don’t interest me. I know the kind of movies I want to make cannot be made on a `3 crore budget, it has to be less and I am happy taking actors like Swastika Mukherjee, Kaushik Sen… If I am doing a `2 crore film, I will be forced to take Prosenjit (Chatterjee), there’s a certain security in taking a star.
 
 
 For certain roles, I am very good. I don’t believe an actor has to be typecast to do a role; a good actor can play a taxiwallah, villager, rockstar, killer... From the age of 21, I wanted to be an actor. I interacted with Badal Sircar, did theatre, went to Berlin. My first break came in 1980 and after that only two-three directors approached me. Back then, the mainstream industry had no place for me. In Mumbai, films like Ardh Satya were happening. In the 1960s, the mainstream industry had enough roles for   for him to become an important actor alongside Uttam Kumar. In 1980s, cinema was badly threatened by the advent of television. Instead of holding on to its urbanness, films started catering to the lowest common denominator.
 
 
 
 No one came to me with a film like Ardh Satya or Mirch Masala, even Sir, where Naseer (Naseeruddin Shah) played the lead or Saransh, where a young Anupam Kher was cast, and not Dilip Kumar. Except four names —  , Mrinal Sen,  , and Nabyendu Chatterjee — no one came to me. It was like two years of doing nothing and then one role… I had to sell my wife’s jewellery and do what not. At a certain point, I went to Berlin; whatever I’d earn, I’d send half of it back. I learnt by suffering. I almost died doing Aparna Sen’s Yugant and had blood dysentery while doing Nabyendu Chatterjee’s Shilpi. For the role, I had to remain stationed 40 km from Bolpur and train under a taanti (weaver). This fellow was an alcoholic and he would beat me if anything went wrong. I would sleep in a storeroom next to piles of potatoes and onions. I had to walk miles to relieve myself. After two weeks, I got dysentery. Every week, a boy used to come from Bolpur to give me alcohol and biscuits. He spotted me in a serious condition. When Nabyendu Chatterjee came, he was like, ‘Wow, this is my character’.
 
 
 
 When I came into music, I knew 3-4 chords; on the basis of that I wrote a few songs. But my first programme in JU, where Suman Mukhopadhyay took me, was a runaway hit. I got `5,000 for one evening, while it was `25,000 for a full film. Then friends organised a programme for which Kabir Suman came down. He said, ‘What are you doing tomorrow? Let’s jam’ and the world of music opened up. People who slogged it out for years like Suman, Nachiketa, Srikanto Acharya, Sraboni Sen, Miss Jojo, Nandan Bagchi, Lew Hilt, Amyt Datta, Usha Uthup and everyone else was so nice to me. They were like, ‘Come, sing’. It never happened in films. My films got National Awards, but no one cared for me. Even my co-actors were not bothered.
 
 
 
 I wanted to be an actor who would come and change the style of acting. I couldn’t do what Naseer, Om, Smita (Patil), Shabana (Azmi), Pankaj and Anupam Kher did… By the time the educated directors redefined mainstream cinema, there were wonderful actors like Ritwick (Chakraborty) and Konkona (Sen Sharma). Also, there was this feeling that if nobody is taking you, act in your own film. Dhritiman (Chaterji) once told me, ‘Again, you are casting yourself. Give it to me.’ I was like, 
 ‘You have had your share of glory as an actor, let me do it’. I think Kaushik (Ganguly) is also doing the same. He wanted to be an actor and he’s so good.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Rakter Daag, on which the film is based, is one of the best Byomkesh stories. It’s such a good role that I wanted to do it. See, I am over with Byomkesh. I am not doing a Byomkesh film again. Jisshu (U Sengupta) is a bit sad. But he should realise that he carved a niche for himself alongside a successful Abir as Byomkesh. Daniel Craig is like, ‘Give me a good role, I don’t want to be James Bond.’ I want to tell Jisshu, ‘Hello, you are not Byomkesh’. He is so much in demand now… I am a creative person and have expressed myself spontaneously. Creative people make mistakes. Genuinely, there has been no problem between Arindam and me.
 
 
 
 To work together, a producer had to understand me. It was not about money or Byomkesh. I thought of Shrikant (Mohta), who has done Chokher Bali, films with Aparna Sen, Churni (Ganguly)’s Nirbaak, Cinemawala, Chirodini… Tumi Je Amar, Tamil-Telugu remakes — he has interacted with a lot of people. With him I could be one more in the zoo. I told him about my crisis and he understood. He was like, ‘Your seven characters are important, but don’t compromise on your eighth character — music’. He asked me to take new talent. All these years, Neel has been with me, but I never thought of him, except for Taniya or a few songs. In this album, he has sung 4-5 songs.
 Hemanta was a disaster. By the time I did my last Byomkesh, I was getting tired of it. I did not keep a little sequence at the end saying another film was coming. Technically too, I gave it my best. Even before that, I was elated when my version of Chiriyakhana was accepted. Honestly, when a film gets a good opening, we drink and all that. But when it fails, the pain is more acute. It lingers. Celebration is one evening and it’s over. Failure stays.
 
 
 
 With Rituparno (Ghosh), the cultured Bengalis returned to mainstream cinema. Then teachers, TV producers, journalists, doctors walked into commercial cinema and made movies that were not Paglu or Beder Meye Jyotsna. That feels so good. Today, I see a much more successful director saying, ‘Wow you’re a damn good actor’. Of course, there’s competition, but I feel comfortable with my peers. I never felt comfortable with Swapan Saha, Anjan Chowdhury or the likes. This is the Tollywood I belong to.
 
 
