CHENNAI: The 69th pontiff of the   passed away on Wednesday morning. He was 82. The acharya complained of breathlessness in the morning. 

 
 He was taken to the math hospital in Kancheepuram where doctors tried to revive him, but failed and declared him dead. “Acharya read the morning newspapers, gave darshan to devotees and went for his bath. As he came out, he sat down and did not seem well. We immediately called the doctors, who after examining him, advised us to take the acharya to hospital,” math manager N Sundaresan said. 
 
 Cardiac experts tried to revive him for 45 minutes but failed to do so. An ECG was taken and doctors announced that the seer had ‘attained samadhi’, said Sundaresan. The seer’s mortal remains will be laid to rest within the math premises behind the Paramacharya’s brindavan. The funeral rites will be held at 8am on Thursday. 
 
 The street walls in the town, famous for its silks, were splashed with posters of AIADMK partymen condoling the seer’s death. Several political leaders, including officials at the Prime Minister’s Office, spoke to the mutt management on hearing the news. “But, there is no confirmation so far about any of them attending the funeral,” he said. 
 
 There was a steady stream of devotees and VIPs to the math after news broke about the pontiff ’s death. Junior pontiff Vijayendra Saraswathi along with other senior math officials were seated close to the seer’s body and was seen receiving dignitaries and other devotees. With the passing away of the seer, Vijayendra Saraswathi will formally take charge of the mutt’s administration after certain rituals are completed. 
 
 Born in  , a village in Tiruvarur district in 1935 as Subramania Mahadevan, Jayendra became a pontiff of the Kanchi mutt in 1954 and was mentored by Paramacharya Chandrasekarendra Saraswathi. Jayendra took charge of the mutt administration after the death of the Paramacharya in 1994.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The BJP top brass mourned the death of Kanchi Shankaracharya Jayendra Saraswathi with Prime Minister   and party president   recalling their interactions with the Hindu priest. 
 
 “Deeply anguished by the passing away of Acharya of Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Peetam Jagadguru Pujyashri Jayendra Saraswathi Shankaracharya. He will live on in the hearts and minds of lakhs of devotees due to his exemplary service and noblest thoughts,” Modi tweeted and also shared his photos with the priest. Modi said Jagadguru was at the forefront of innumerable community service initiatives and nurtured institutions which transformed the lives of the poor and the downtrodden. 
 
 Shah called the Shankaracharya a spiritual beacon who contributed immensely to society. “Anguished to learn about the sad demise of Shankaracharya. Generations will remember him for his teachings, wisdom and exemplary work towards educating the poor” Shah said.
 
 
 
  
 
