It was Lucknow’s day out when Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations announced results on Monday. Three city students, Radhika Chandra, Sakshi Pradyumn, Saman Waheed along with   Agarwal from   bagged the all-India first rank in   (class XII) examinations with 99.5%.

 
 The glory is yet to sink in for Radhika. “I always dreamt of topping the examination, but could believe when it actually happened. When my school coordinator broke the news to me, I thought I am school topper. Topping the country is a dream come true.” Radhika scored a perfect 100 in five subjects — physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology and physical education. She was just two marks short of a perfect score in English.
 
 Hailing from a family of doctors with father, Dr  , a urologist and mother Shalini Chandra, a gynecologist, Radhika too aspires to pursue medicine. What motivates her to choose the profession is the determination of her parents in saving lives every day. “My parents help people in need and make a difference to their lives. I think this is the best way to serve society,” said Radhika.
 
 For Sakshi, it was his confidence which yielded success. “I was expecting something good, but the results were way too good,’’ he said. Sakshi intends to pursue computer science engineering. He has qualified for JEE Advanced, the gateway for IIT admission. Scoring a perfect 100 in four subjects — mathematics, physics, chemistry, computer science, Sakshi said, “It was focused classroomteaching which helped me score.” Sakshi is an avid tennis player and represents the state.
 
 Son of both working parents — father   who works as executive director in   and mother  , a teacher, Sakshi also developed a mobile app which helped him win a contest. “I developed a mobile application for rehabilitation of cancer patients which was widely appreciated,” he said.
 
 Lipika Agarwal, who too bagged first rank nationally, dreams of studying in a top medical college and become a neurosurgeon. “I was anticipating a decent 95, but 99.5% was quite unbelievable,” said Lipika, who indulged in nail art to bust stress during exams.
 
 For Lipika, it’s her mother who was her support system. “She sacrificed her daily outings to ensure I study without skipping my meals. She slept late and got up early to be by my side,” she said.
 
 Saman’s success mantra was to be regular in school and not miss on notes. “To keep myself stress-free during examination, I took to reading books and listening to music,” said Saman who aspires to be a civil servant.
 
