LUCKNOW: Miffed at slow execution of road and infrastructure projects in Lucknow, his   constituency, Union Home Minister   has asked the Uttar Pradesh government to accelerate the pace.

 Sources said Singh has asked the   government to fix responsibility and direct the officials for prompt delivery. Senior officials have called a meeting on Thursday to discuss the projects.
 
 Singh, who is also the former chief minister of UP, was elected from Lucknow in 2014, after having earlier represented Ghaziabad as an MP in 2009. Sources said Singh has approved infrastructure projects worth Rs 5,000 crore for his constituency.
 
 In a letter to the state government on Wednesday, Diwakar Tripathi, Singh’s representative in his constituency, said that the construction of ambitious 94-km stretch of outer ring road to ease traffic in UP state capital, had been hanging fire since 2015.
 
 The ring road will connect Rae Bareli Road, Sultanpur Road and Kanpur Road and Lucknow-Agra Expressway on the outskirts of the city.
 
 The letter states that the road project was conceived by   and road transport ministry in 2015 and tender process was completed in 2016. The construction was of the stretch, known as Kisan Path, was to be completed by 2018, but it has yet to begin.
 
 The outer ring road projevct includes construction of four big overbridges, 42 small overbridges, five railway overbridges, eight flyovers, 26 underpasses for vehicles, three underpasses for pedestrians, and two inter-change roads.
 
 
 
 
 The parliamentarian has directly held the state irrigation department for not constructing three bridges on the Gomti and Sharda rivers and blamed Akhilesh Yadav government for releasing a paltry Rs 95 crore out 255 crore for the projects during its term.
 
 Development in and around Lucknow holds key for the   ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as the state capital is competing for a metropolitan status and would be showcased as model city of the state that gave the saffron party 72 seats in 2014.
 
 
