CHENNAI: While the Supreme Court has reduced Tamil Nadu’s share of Cauvery water by 14.75tmcft, taking into account the availability of 20tmcft ground water in the river basin in the state, a joint study conducted by the state public works department and   shows that groundwater is overexploited in the basin.

 The latest report from the agencies says groundwater in half of 239 revenue sub-divisions (firkas) in the Cauvery basin is over exploited, critical, semi-critical and saline. The situation is no different in the rest of the state as 61% of total firkas in Tamil Nadu fall under these categories.
 
 
  
 
 All the over-exploited and critical blocks have been notified by the government as A category, where groundwater extraction is 90% and above, and all the semi-critical and safe blocks notified as B category, where extraction is below 89%. In its 2016 order, the state government directed that no schemes should be formulated in A category blocks, while in B category blocks, schemes should be formulated only after obtaining “no objection certificates” from the state ground and surface water resources data centre of the water resources department. “Due to lack of flow in the river system for months and unscheduled release from Karnataka, the extraction of groundwater for irrigation is severe in the basin,” said a senior government official. On Friday, the court recognized TN’s irrigated area as 24.7 lakh acres, ignoring Karnataka’s request to reduce it to 21 lakh acres.
 
 For the record, 39 of the 50 revenue sub-divisions in Thanjavur have been identified as over-exploited, semi-critical and saline. This is the highest in the delta. Andhikaddu and Vallam in Thanjavur have turned saline. In the tail-end, 16 sub-divisions of   district have turned saline, especially in Kilvelur, Nagapattinam, Sirkazhi, Tharangampadi, Thirukuvazhai and Vedaranyam taluks. The Cauvery water disputes tribunal’s final award went into great detail about water requirement for paddy, and maintained that the groundwater in the region should not be taken for reckoning the apportionment of waters between the states. Nagapattinam farmer   said the SC verdict did not consider the plight of the farmers at present. “With no systematic flow in the river due to lack of release from Karnataka reservoirs, sea water intrusion is heavy in our region. The TN government’s decision to supply water alternately between Cauvery and Vennar basins has left us in the lurch.”
 
 The court has cited the reports of the Central groundwater board in 1972 and TN government’s groundwater extraction report in 1989 and the safe estimation of the tribunal’s 20tmcft of ground water before deciding to allocate an additional 10tmcft to Karnataka. Cauvery delta farmers’ welfare association general secretary S Ranganathan said the groundwater availability was depleting with every passing year. “We have been managing the crisis with river water and pump sets for long. Hereafter, we have to carefully plan strategies. Farm ponds need to be created and we should reduce paddy cultivation. Farmers should try to reduce one third of the area under paddy cultivation. We need to shift to other crops and keep all the coastal areas covered with plantations like eucalyptus, casuarina and cashew, right from Mahabalipuram to Tuticorin, which will need only rain water,” he said. “Farmers should extract water only for emergency,” he said.
 
 
