AJMER: Bhilwara police on Monday busted an interstate   gang involved in loot and robbery. They carried out 125 robberies in Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Police arrested seven gang members and also recovered about Rs 2 crore from them. Investigation is on and police hope to solve more loot cases. Inspector general of police   range   and SP Bhilwara Pradeep Mohan Sharma announced award for the team that busted the gang.

 According to police, Subhash Nagar police station on Sunday night got a tip-off that some suspicious people in a vehicle parked near Subhash Circle were planning something and also carrying weapons. 
 
 SHO Pramod Sharma with his team reached the spot where he found a white colour vehicle. “During search, we found they had pistol, bullets, swords, knives and red chilli powder,” said Sharma.
 
 Police arrested Parkash (29) resident of Bundi; Piv Lal (30), Piv Sampat (30) and   (25) of Begu; Lala (30) and Mahender (25) of Parsoli, Chittorgarh and Rajender (23) of Banera (Bhilwara). 
 
 “During interrogation, they admitted carrying out 125 loots and also disclosed the loot amount of Rs 2 crore,” added a police official.
 
 The gang would come out from their dera in evening and go roaming on the highway. In small town or a big village, they would choose a house while the driver remained in the vehicle parked on the highway. If police inquired reason for parking vehicle there, he would state that he brought passengers in taxi and felt sleepy. Other gang members would go in the town and rob the house. Then they would call the driver and flee.
 
 Gang admitted carrying out loots in Sarwar, Begu, Jaipur, Paner, Rayala, Kekri, Bundi, Tonk, Ajmer, Pali, Rajasmand, Kota and even in different cities of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. 
 
 They also disclosed the shops where they sold the looted items. They mostly robbed ornaments, cash and utensils from houses or shops. They lived like nomads and made tents outside any city. They struck at night and after robbery returned to their tents, unnoticed by police. SP Sharma said that the team was led by SHO Pramod Sharma with ASI Rameshwar Lal, head constable Motiram Deepak Kumar, Satyanarayan, Naresh, Lokesh, Samuder, Shanker and Ravinder. The department has announced award for them.
 
 
