KOTA: Busting an interstate gang of robbers, Kota police arrested two members of a gang involved in the loot of 27 kilogram of gold from a private gold loan firm in Kota on January 22.

 Two members of the gang identified as Gulab Singh and Sushil  , natives of Uttar Pradesh (UP), were arrested from Delhi and brought to Kota for interrogation, said Kota city SP Anshuman Bhomia in a press conference on Thursday afternoon.
 
 “The two arrested have been identified as the main accused in the case. A third member  , who is also believed to be the mastermind behind the robbery along with these two, is yet to be arrested. Six members of the gang have been identified and efforts to nab them are on,’’ he said.
 
 It is fully professional gang of robbers that mainly targets the private gold loan firms and carries out recce before the crime, the SP said. A member of the gang first reached Kota on December 28 and was followed by other members of the gang while the three main accused continued to give them instructions from Delhi.
 
 Bhomia said the gang members had four locations including two purchased flats in Delhi. The gang members in Kota purchased two motorbikes in Kota using a fake ID in the name of one Ravi Kumar and later bought a black Verna car, which was traced during the investigation through CCTV footage collected from around 70 toll plazas.
 
 It is yet to be investigated where the two motorbikes were disposed off after the crime of loot, he added. One of the three masterminds Manish, who belongs to Bihar, is of a criminal background and carried out such robberies in past in Bhagalpur in   and in West Bengal.
 
 With about 150 police personnel and four cyber expert teams, the operation was carried in six states and over 2 lakhs call details were investigated. On the recovery from the two arrested accused, Bhomia said it would be shared later as interrogation with the two accused is underway.
 
 Around four unidentified youths on January 22 had entered into Manappuram gold loan firm’s office in broad daylight and at the gun point looted around 27 kilograms gold estimated to be worth corers after locking up the loan company staff into room.
 
 
