NAGPUR: Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday cleared the first budget of   (NMRDA) having an outlay Rs1,760 crore for 2018-19. The   will not only develop the metro region but also continue Nagpur Improvement Trust’s (NIT’s) major projects.

 A source in NMRDA said that the main projects to be undertaken next fiscal were setting up a logistics park at Outer Ring Road junction, establishment of the Authority’s divisional offices, setting up a waste to energy project for metro region, constructing affordable housing under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), development of Deekshabhoomi and Dragon Palace Temple, building Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar convention centre on Kamptee Road, development of Koradi Temple and beautification of Futala lake. Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and metropolitan commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar were present during the budget presentation.
 
 CM asked Mhaisekar to chalk plans for building at least one lakh affordable houses under PMAY in metro region. Help of Maharashtra Remote Sensing Applications Centre (MRSAC) should be taken to prevent encroachment on reserved land plots in metro region. The field officers should be made responsible for encroachments on Authority land.
 
 Mhaisekar read out the budget during the meeting with CM. Rs70 crore would be spent on various development works in metro region, Rs40 crore on roads and bridges, Rs10 crore on waste water management, musical fountain at Futala lake and multimedia show on the life of Swami Vivekananda at Ambazari lake - Rs30 crore, beautification of Koradi temple and surrounding premises with state government aid - Rs122 crore, development of Koradi temple premises solely from NMRDA funds - Rs26 crore, museum for conserving Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s personal articles at Chicholi - Rs28 crore, development of Deekshabhoomi and Dragon Palace Temple under Swadesh scheme - Rs30 crore, providing basic amenities in Dragon Palace Temple - Rs20 crore, affordable houses under PMAY - Rs700 crore, construction of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar convention centre - Rs90 crore.
 
 Fadnavis approved NMRDA proposal to increase the deadline for regularization of illegal constructions up to October 31, 2018. Two schemes in Khadka-Kirmiti-Shivmadka-Sumthana-Panjri and Sumthana-Panjri and   townships were given administrative approval. Development works in pilgrimage centres under Swadesh Darshan scheme were approved for Waki, Adasa, Dhapewada, Paradsinga, Chhota Tajbagh, Telangkhedi and Girda. Staffing pattern of NMRDA comprising 188 posts was also approved.
 
 Mayor  , zilla parishad president Nisha Sawarkar, MLAs Sudhakar Deshmukh, Vikas Kumbhare, Sudhakar Kohale, Dr Milind Mane and Sameer Meghe and MLC Girish Vyas were present during presentation of the budget.
 
 
