Last year marked the start of ‘clean sleeping’ and ‘smart sleeping’ as popular trends. This had many people recording their snooze meticulously and also logging the number of hours they spent between the sheets daily. However, sleep professionals suggest that sleep not only keeps you healthy mentally, but also physically and that’s why it’s imperative to incorporate trends, which your body can follow, to keep you going. 
Telling us how sleep trends are identified each year, sleep professional Dr D Narayanan says, “At the beginning of every year, sleep experts across the country analyse the sleeping patterns people should follow that particular year. This study is done based on the report that professionals collect over the previous year. Through the next course of the year, these trends are then further broken down 
 to understand the patterns of snooze.”
 
 If you are wondering what your   should be for this year, take a cue from these...
 
 
 
 While we know that a full night’s sleep is the ultimate form of rest, for most people, it’s a far-fetched dream. Sleep professional Dr  , opines, “There are many people who grab on some sleep in-between the day, and that’s perfectly fine. For example, if you have woken up at 7 am and have an hour to spend travelling to work, utilise that one hour of travelling for sleep. However, make sure that you remind your body that it’s only an hour of rest that it will be getting. This way your body will know how to sleep binge.”
 
 
 
 Fast-paced modern lives have made people not only count the number of hours that they stay awake and work, but also the number of hours they spend sleeping.  , a 32-year-old advertising professional, who is undergoing therapy for sleep correction says, “Working in a highly stressful job made it difficult for me to fall asleep at night. Even if I did, my body would get these ‘shock waves’ during the night that would wake me up and keep me awake for two to three hours. When I started undergoing treatment, my doctor explained that my body was naturally on trackers.”
 
 
 
 While you may think it is similar to snooze tracking, it is quite different from the previous one. Dr Narayanan explains, “Whenever you hear someone talk about getting adequate rest and sleep, they will usually be referring to getting about seven to eight hours of sleep. However, one must know that each body type is different and thus, in turn, the sleeping patterns.”
 
 
 
 The concept of power naps has taken the world by storm and how. Not only are sleep experts advising people on taking them, it is being considered as one of the biggest sleep trends for this year. Shehnaz  , a medical student specialising in sleep apnea, says, “My students have been visiting several corporate firms in the city and spreading the importance of power naps. Research has shown that energy boosting naps double an individual’s performance at work, and he/she is also able to strike the right chord between his/her professional and personal life.”
 
 
 
 Similar to sleep bingeing, sleep professionals are emphasising on the need to losing the race to bed. Dr Gokhale explains, “A lot of times when people come back from work, they either sit in front of the television, read a book or try and watch videos online, waiting for dinner time. This is also the moment when someone feels sleepy, but tries to stay awake, so they don’t disrupt their sleeping pattern. However, this year, we suggest that in case one feels this way, they should not bother about staying awake and just lose their race to bed.” 
 
