Surat: Come June and tens of thousands of commuters in Adajan, Pal and Rander won’t have to remain stuck in traffic jams while crossing the other side of river towards Athwalines and Majura Gate.  After the widened portion from Adajan to Athwalines of Sardar Bridge was opened for public use on Sunday, Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has set June as the deadline for opening of the widened portion of Sardar Bridge from Athwalines to Adajan and also the cable-stayed bridge.  With the wider eight-lane Sardar Bridge and the cable-stayed bridge over Tapi almost ready, commuters would have no problems crossing the river towards Athwalines and beyond without facing traffic jams. SMC sources said the Sardar Bridge, which was built in 1991 at a cost of Rs14.31 crore over Tapi, has a capacity of carrying 11,000 passenger car units (PCU) per hour during peak time. After the construction of four additional lanes, its carrying capacity will increase to more than 20,000 PCUs per hour. In a day, more than 4.35 lakh people commute from Sardar Bridge on either sides for work. The construction of the Rs 143 crore worth cable-stayed bridge was taken up by Gammon India Limited in October 2010. The deadline for completion of the bridge project was set as May 2013. However, the work on the cable-stayed bridge was stalled for over a year following collapse of the curved portion of Athwalines flyover, claiming the lives of 10 people. Sources said construction of the flyover on Athwalines connecting the cable-stayed bridge is almost complete. The cable-stayed bridge has a total of 20 cables and the work for harnessing 13 cables is already over.  SMC’s executive engineer (bridge cell) Jayesh Solanki told TOI, “We expect to complete the cable-stayed bridge project by June-end. On the other hand, the widened portion of Sardar Bridge from Athwalines to Adajan will be opened sometime in June. However, traffic issues on Sardar Bridge will be resolved. The traffic will be divided on both the bridges. Those going towards Bhatar, Bhestan, Udhna Magdalla etc could use cable-stayed bridge, while Sardar Bridge will be used for commuting to and from Athwalines, Majura Gate etc.”