Republic Day is just 24 hours away. And there is no doubt that the patriotic zeal will be rekindled and quite a few youngsters, sporting white attires and holding tricolour flags, will gather at the Futala Lake tomorrow. But with R-Day falling on a Friday this year, it is also time to welcome the first extended weekend of the year. While many people plan to laze around and chill at home for these three days, there are some city collegians who have chalked out some interesting plans. From going on a   to exploring the jungles around and heading some nearby destinations, students are looking forward to make the most of this much needed breather. 

 
 My friends and I are going to Jam Sawali, where there is a famous Hanuman temple. We will cover the distance on our bikes. We will leave late in the night so that we can attend the early morning aarti there. It is after a long time that we are going on a leisure trip. Also, we plan to visit Kunwara Bhimsen, a small village near Ramtek. We will take our cameras along and click the raw beauty of nature. 
 — Aryan Gangotri, CPC 
 
 
 
  As soon as I realised about the Republic day weekend, I thought what better way to spend the weekend than watching some sentimental and patriotic Bollywood movies? 
 This will be the best time to express my love for our nation. I have already made a list of movies to be watched and some of them are; Rang De Basanti, Chak De India, Border, Lakshya, Swades etc. 
 Rishikesh Kulkarni, Dr Ambedkar Law  
 
 
 
 Taking a break from the hectic schedule of IIM-N, this long weekend I am going to   for a short trek. I will cover the two-day trek to Prashar lake from Mandi, followed by paragliding at one of the world’s famous paragliding sites at Bir Billing. I just want to enjoy peace sitting in the lap of nature and I can already feel the adrenaline rush. There can be no better way to soothe a stressed mind than the company of Himalayas.
 — Navneet Chaudhury, 
 IIM -Nagpur 
 
 
 
 An ardent wildlife enthusiast,   Mangrolia, is all set to go for a jungle safari. A regular at the jungles, Aditya is going for a special reason this time. He says, “This time my focus is on the tiger sighting. The R-Day weekend is a blessing in disguise. My friends and I will go to the jungles for three days; we will study the behaviour of the big cats and try to click some amazing pictures.”
 — Aditya Mangrolia, Shatayu College
 
 
 With inputs from Shreeya Trivedi 
 
