UDHAGAMANDALAM: Passengers of a state transport   heading to Glenmorgan from Ooty literally prayed for their lives when the   driver let his friend steer the vehicle, which he drove in a rash and negligent manner, on Tuesday evening.

 The video showing the rash driving by the driver’s friend, who was a passenger in the bus, has gone viral on social media. Dotted with hairpin bends and difficult terrains, driving is not easy on the roads in the Nilgiris. Only experienced drivers could handle heavy vehicles on the hilly terrain. According to sources, the temporary   allowed his friend to get behind the wheel midway through the journey. He drove the bus for 5km through several narrow bends.
 
 “Transport officials should be very strict with the temporary drivers. One cannot be allowed to take advantage of the prevailing situation. There should be accountability. In the name of providing service, officials cannot put the lives of passengers at risk. The temporary driver should be punished accordingly,” said an activist who didn’t want to be named.
 
 Ganesan, divisional manager, TNSTC, Nilgiris division, told TOI the temporary driver, identified as Godwin, was a resident of Glenmorgan area. “He reported for duty for two days, but did not turn up today. His driving licence is with the department,” he said. According to Ganesan, the validity of the licence could be ascertained only after talking to the RTO. “We have cancelled services between Ooty and Masinagudi considering the risky drive along the Kalhatty ghat road,” the official added.
 
 In another instance, a temporary driver deputed on the route rammed the compound wall of a house at Kadanadu village near Ooty while negotiating a narrow road on Tuesday. The wall was damaged. “It was a minor accident. Nothing happened to the passengers in the bus,” Ganesan said.
 
 Collector J Innocent Divya said the administration has a list of names of temporarily hired drivers. “We will take appropriate action against the errant drivers,” she said.
 
 
