CHANDIGARH: Earlier used as a store room, the library of the Hindi department at   now has books stacked and catalogued under various categories.

 The credit for the metamorphosis of a store room into a library goes to the students of the department, who now wholly and solely run the facility. From issuing books to keeping a record of the takers, the students have prepared a duty roster and work in the library from 9am to 5pm, successfully creating a model for part-time jobs at the university.
 
 These students are doing this without any incentive or stipend. While these aficionados were busy transforming the library, Ram Singh Yadav, a research scholar of the Hindi department, realized that they needed a wall clock in the reading space. He got a wall clock from his home and fixed it on the library wall. Another research scholar at the department, who completed her masters here, was so elated with the idea of a library that when she saw there were not enough Hindi literature books, she purchased seven of them and stacked them on one of the racks.
 
 But why did students have to do what the university authorities must have taken care of? Reason: There was no manpower available with the department to run a library. So, instead of waiting to get the support from the authorities, the students took up the task themselves.
 
 When asked whether their studies get affected Kewal Kumar, a research scholar, said, “We have a duty roster so only one student does not have to do all the work. We distribute the work and do it voluntarily for the department. We had no place to sit and study, now we do that in a library we can call our own. And all of this has been a collective effort.”
 
 Gurmeet Singh, chairperson of the department, said that he had written to the authorities to provide remuneration to the students as incentive to run the library. “If the students are paid Rs 2,000 each for the entire week, this would incur a cost of Rs16,000 per month for eight students who run the library for the entire month. This is more reasonable than recruiting a non-teaching staff and paying him much more,” added Singh.
 
 If the books are not returned after seven days, Re 1 per day fine is charged. The students have also kept a printer in the library and charge Rs 1 per page for a printout. The students collect the money and keep it in a piggy bank. The cash will be utilized for the maintenance of the library. Moreover, the students have formed 11 committees to oversee different works happening in the department.
 
 “We do it voluntarily for our department. We are also running the   discussion forum and a movie club to enhance our knowledge in Hindi literature. It gives us immense satisfaction to work for the betterment of our department. However, we would want the University to give us some incentive for our hard work.”
 
 Shakuntala, a PhD scholar, Hindi department
 
 “We don’t get burdened by the library duties. In fact, we feel proud to have created a space where students from Punjabi and other departments come to take books.”
 
 Ram Singh Yadav, a PhD scholar, Hindi department
 
 
