SURAT: Small and medium diamond companies in world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat will have an opportunity to directly sell their polished diamonds to clients from around the world. 

 Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) will for the first time organize an exclusive   for the benefit of small and medium size companies. The buyers are expected to arrive in Mumbai from around the world to participate in the three-day event starting from April 23. 
 
 BDB will give a boost to small and medium size diamond companies which cannot easily participate in gems and jewellery shows organized in the US, China, Hong Kong, Dubai and other parts of the world. The three-day event will purely be a buyers-sellers meet where small and medium companies will be able to close deals with buyers from India and across the world. 
 
 BDB president   said, “The main aim behind holding this show is to help small and medium size companies. They are the ones who really need a boost during these challenging times. They are not able to go to big shows, so Bharat Diamond Week allows them to participate at a level playing field.”
 
 The fact that India is already well connected to all the global diamond centres, makes international participation easier, said BDB vice-president Mehul Shah, who is heading the Diamond Week project, citing direct flights from Belgium, Dubai, Hong Kong, the US, China and elsewhere. 
 
 “Visiting India from Israel is now easier than ever because Air India has started direct flights on March 22 between Israel and New Delhi with convenient connections to Mumbai,” Shah added.
 
 Over 150 Indian companies are expected to display polished diamonds at the show.
 
 Another key attraction at the event will be display of synthetic diamond detection equipment at competitively priced services and specially organized seminars and meetings on the issue of synthetics. 
 
 Shah said, “The synthetics part of Diamond Week is going to bring in a great deal of added value for attendees, with the latest updates on this important issue. The BDB plans to hold international diamond weeks twice a year.”
 
 Gems and   (GJEPC) regional chairman   said, “The show organized by BDB is first of its kind and exclusively for small and medium companies which do not get international exposure. They depend on big players in the industry to sell their goods in foreign market. The show will open a gateway for the diamantaires to the international market.”
 
 
