BHOPAL: The state   on Friday took a cash-for-votes complaint against   national vice-president Prabhat Jha to the   office here.

 Congress alleges that Jha “openly violated the model code of conduct” by offering voters Rs 1,000 in exchange for votes for BJP while campaigning in a tribal village in Kolaras assembly constituency, where bypolls are due on February 24.
 
 Jha dismissed the Congress charge, saying he was only reiterating a promise made by the state government to Sahariya tribals before announcement of election dates.
 
 This is the second complaint against Jha by Congress in a month.
 
  spokespersons JP Dhanopia, Pankaj Chaturvedi, Vibha Patel and Ravi Saxena led the delegation that submitted a memorandum to the EC, seeking a case to be registered against Jha and his supporters to ensure free and fair elections.
 
 Congress also submitted a video as evidence.
 
 In the video shot, Congress says, the BJP leader is seen addressing a crowd of Sahariya women in Gadgatusani village near Badarwas and asking them if they have received the Rs 1,000 announced by CM Chouhan in their bank accounts.
 
 “Only some hands go up, while most in the audience replied in the negative. He says that those who have not received the money will get it before January 26,” Dhanopia said.
 
 “It has become a habit with BJP to deliberately violate the model code. We have visual evidence showing Prabhat Jha telling voters of the village that they will receive Rs 1,000 in their bank accounts, but they have to remember to vote for BJP,” Dhanopia added.
 
 Accusing BJP of trying to lure voters with money, Dhanopia said: “Jha says that CM Chouhan has sent the money so that Sahariya children can have milk and vegetables. Then he reminds them that the money has come gratis, and not out of hard labour, so ‘someone who benefits you should be benefitted in return’. This is enticement and against the provisions of the model code.”
 
 PCC spokesman Ravi Saxena said the state EC has promised to send the complaint to its New Delhi HQ and to Shivpuri district collector for an inquiry.
 
 Jha retaliated by saying that Congress has turned into a “complaint wing”. “The Rs 1000 grant for Sahariya tribal families is being given by the state government as a scheme. Can’t we talk about schemes like Ladli Laxmi Yojana and  ? The money is being given to address malnutrition in tribal children. Is Congress against the scheme? They should clarify,” he said.
 
 
