Call it   or  , or simply a trapeze act, this wordless performance will tug at your heartstrings with the story of two clowns — of their love and relationship, thoughts and sentiments, and the quirky situations they find themselves in.

  A first-of-its-kind performance in Bengaluru, Mandrágora Circo (or Mandragora Circus) is a non-verbal comedy that mixes theatre with circus, mimicry, acrobatics, dance and music. It allows the spectators’ imagination to fill in the gaps, weaving a tale that is relatable and peppered with the humour and absurdities of everyday life. The 55-minute act is written and directed by Argentinian artiste  , who shares the stage with fellow actor  . The show is scheduled to take place at   over the weekend. 
 
  Premiered in Patagonía in January 2003, Mandrágora Circo has so far travelled 42 countries across continents around the globe. In India, the show has been staged in Delhi, Mumbai and Pune. “We are performing in Bengaluru for the first time, and both of us are very excited about it. We have heard a lot about the theatre scene in this city — its venues and audiences,” says Mariana.
 
  “Poetic in essence, the play is a type of physical theatre that narrates a love story in a comical manner rather than romantic. Live music add more jazz to the storytelling. Sans dialogues, the two characters portray their various emotions and sentiments; their inner conflicts and evolutions. The play carries a happy undertone, which has been appreciated by audiences in different places around the world over the years. The show intends to make people laugh and laugh more. Although it is a wordless performance, the theme of the play is universal that aims at touching upon human psyche, traversing diverse languages and cultures,” she sums up. 
 
  
 
 
  Two clowns tell a story where comedy, love and thoughts are understood without words. Circus stunts and music give shape to a performance, in which circus becomes poetry. Aerial acrobatics, juggling and unconventional instruments weave the acts of this performance, in which the gestures allow the audience to imagine situations, conflicts and solutions.
 
 
