NAGPUR: Well-known doctor couple Abhay and Rani Bang and the late  , were among the three from Vidarbha in the   award list announced by the centre on Thursday. 

 While people who have worked closely with all three recipients lauded the government for finally recognizing their immense contributions to the society, they were also critical that it had come too late, particularly for Ramteke who expired in November last year due to a cardiac arrest at the age of 67.
 
 The Bang couple are well-known for revolutionizing the health care sector in the Naxalite-hit district of Gadchiroli. Their NGO ‘Society For Education, Action and Research in Community Health’ (SEARCH) is actively involved in rural health service and research, and it has led to significant reduction in infant mortality rates in tribal-dominated district. 
 
 Organizations like World Health Organisation (WHO) and   have endorsed their efforts for treating newborns and rolled out their model in parts of the African continent.
 
 Through the ‘Community Health Worker’ model, the doctor couple worked for reducing child mortality by pneumonia treatment and bringing reproductive health issues of women on the global platform. Search also launched the ‘Youth Social Changemakers’ programme titled ‘Nirman’ through which the Bangs are providing life-skill education to over 1 lakh youngsters. 
 
 So far, they have served over 8 lakh people through their hospital in ‘Shodhgram’ where they run a de-addiction programme too.
 
 The Bang couple told TOI that they were indeed happy on “recognition of their efforts”. They say it was the “flame of idealism” which prompted them to take up the challenging task of improving the health care sector. 
 
 “It would boost our efforts to work harder for the society, particularly in the rural health care sector. The government had already acknowledged and appreciated our works through various recognitions and honours at different points of time despite we being critical of their approach,” said Dr Abhay.
 
 Dr Rani termed it as an honour to the people who work with them believing in the same vision and also the institution itself. “Any award is special to usher in the happiness but our goal remains bigger,” she said.
 
 Ramteke came into limelight for championing the cause of sickle cell disease (SCD) patients and creating awareness about it. He entered into the area after realizing that his son Harshal (working as computer engineer in California) was suffering from the disease.
 
 Subsequently, Ramteke founded the Sickle Cell Society of India ( ) in 1991, and worked for awareness of the disease for nearly three decades. Though nominated twice for the prestigious award, he couldn’t make it to the final list as he never indulged in lobbying, according to his relatives. 
 
 Survived by wife Jaya and daughter Shweta, a physiotherapist at Fullerton, Ramteke dedicated his entire life for the welfare of SCD patients and their relatives after retiring from the  .
 
 “Though the recognition came very late, we’re happy that his untiring efforts were finally recognized. It’s obvious that if he would have been alive, it would have made more impact and made all the SCD patients happier. The award is a recognition of his fight for bringing SCD to the forefront. We would continue his legacy through SCSI,” his wife and son said.
 
 Nilkanth Pande, who worked closely with Ramteke in SCSI, stated that biggest achievement of his efforts was to bring the SCD under National Rural Health Mission (NRHM). “This award would motivate us to work harder and realize Ramteke’s dream of an SCD-free country. The disease is spread in Central India, ranging from Kutch in   to Orissa coast. The SCD would more highlighted due to the award and lead to spread more awareness,” he said.
 
 Dr Vinky Rughwani, Thalassaemia Society of India president, added that Ramteke was an encyclopedia about SCD. “He used to inform the patients on how to avail facilities and how to deal with the disease. His dedicated efforts led to government identifying SCD as a problem disease,” he said.
 
 Ramteke’s nephew, Amit, says despite hailing from a poor family, he worked overtime for the SCD patients.
 
 
