Dramas were an inevitable art form of the temple festivals in many parts of Madurai till about a decade ago. Though, of late, cinema and television have taken over their place in the city folk’s cultural milieu, dramas continue to be still in demand in the villages.

 Tamil Nadu Nadaga Nadigar Sangam, started in 1923, has its base in Madurai and produced many popular personalities like T R Mahalingam. Even late chief minister MGR was a product of a drama company in Madurai, said secretary of the sangam P Murugadas. As temple festivals have started, the association office in   is overflowing with artists who have come to confirm their bookings. The walls of the building have 346 calendars charts, fluttering on the walls, one for each artist, where the person who comes to book a drama, is given a date based on the artiste’s availability.
 
 Kalaimani, 71, a senior actor, says he entered the field of drama at the age of 16 and still continues to play the hero’s role in mythical dramas such as ‘Harichandra, Satyavan Savithiri’ and ‘Pavalakodi’ among others. All of them offer worship to the portrait of Shankaradas Swamigal, an actor and playwright, who they revere as their god.
 
 He has also acted in many films, "but, it is drama which gives you fulfilment as you see the people appreciate you in person during each performance, something that cinema can never give,’’ he said.
 
 Almost all the artistes take their job full time like M P  , 70, who played   in   on Sunday. "If I am given a wish I would like to be born a drama artiste again,’’ he said.
 
 A Periyannan, 70, of Annaipatti near Kuruvithurai has come to book V S Mokkadurai for a temple festival that is to take place in July this year. "Our festival is important and my family has been sponsoring dramas in our village for four generations. It is our way of making an offering to god,’’ he said. People who book them also have their preferences among artistes and rarely settle for others.
 
 V S Meena, 65, a veteran artiste, cannot refrain from coming to the office and meeting her old friends, though she is no longer an actor. "Dramas are not what they were before. I quit acting because I knew I had lost it when my skin started shrivelling due to aging.’’ she said.
 
 The artistes say that the youngsters of today are not dedicated as they were. "They film us on their mobile phones and practise using it, but the output is poor,’’ said Kalaimani, adding that dedication was a must for an artist. If you want to become a member, you should know the ragas and deliver a sequence of a given drama.
 
 But, all of them are confident that their profession would last as long as far as temples are there on the earth.
 
 
