PUNE: The state chief commissioner for Right To Service (RTS), Swadheen Kshatriya, has directed all government departments to provide all   under the   Act. 

 Kshatriya took this step after repeated complaints from consumer forums about “select” services being offered under the Act. Citizen activist   had demanded a review of the Act. The commissioner said a master list of all services provided will be put up in the public domain in three months.
 
 Kshatriya further directed that the master list indicate the time frame for each service under the Maharashtra Right to Public Services Act, 2015.
 
 Gandhi, who is a former information commissioner, stated in his representation that the purpose of the Act was to include all services and not just a few. Presently, 399 are being offered under RTS, but there could be more than 1,000 services, he said.
 
 “We made representations to (Kshatriya) last May, October and December. We had stated that according to section 3(1) of the act, the word “all” public services provided by a public authority has to be notified,” Gandhi told TOI. 
 
 He further said it could not have been the intent of the Act to allow public authorities to arbitrarily decide which services will be provided under the law. “If the department or authority is given discretionary power to notify select services under the act, it would be a regression,” he said.
 
 Kshatriya seems to have taken Gandhi’s recommendations seriously. “Sufficient and adequate time has elapsed,” said the commissioner in his observation on the recommendations. He issued the directives as the Maharashtra State Commission for Right to Public Services was entrusted with the responsibility of ensuring proper implementation of this Act and making suggestions to the state government for ensuring better delivery of public services. “With section 16 (1) empowering the commission to recommend steps to be taken by public authorities for efficient delivery of public services, the commission has made the recommendations,” Kshatriya stated.
 
 
