NOIDA: The   administration has decided to impose a fine of Rs 1,000 on anyone using bull guards in front of vehicles from Saturday, in keeping with the Centre’s ban on the use of the accessory.

 The district transport department invoked the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988 to announce that while the Rs 1,000 penalty is for first-timers, every subsequent offence will attract of fine of Rs 2,000 on the vehicle owner.
 
 The Centre had in December last year banned the use of bull bars, saying it rendered the vehicle’s in-built safety features useless. The government had cited Section 52 of the Motor Vehicles Act, which bars any alteration to the vehicle’s features. 
 
 Following the guidelines, the Uttar Pradesh transport commissioner had directed all regional transport officers in the state to convene a meeting with dealers of motor accessories in an attempt to dissuade them from selling bull bars.
 
  are metal bars fitted in front of vehicles to prevent any damage to the cars.
 
 Sources said the administration had found there was a high demand for bull bars among vehicle owners and some dealers had been selling them in the open. The district administration has now decided to impose a fine of Rs 5,000 on anyone found selling bull bars.
 
 “Vehicles these days come with a crumpling zone, which helps the front part take all the pressure on being hit. Components such as bumpers, grilles, radiators and bonnets nullify the crumpling zone. They harm the driver, who could be flung outside the car,” said a motor vehicle dealer.
 
 Arunendra Pandey, the ARTO of Gautam Budh Nagar, issued the notice on Friday announcing the fines for sporting bull bars.
 
 Pandey said that for the first few days, the administration would publish the information in the local media to raise awareness among people and then initiate a drive.
 
 The   police, with whom the transport department usually carries out enforcement drives, is yet to receive the order. “We are yet to receive any order to this affect. The move will be implemented as soon as we get the order,” said traffic inspector Layak Singh.
 
 
