Ekta Kapoor's supernatural thriller   is back on the small screen. This time around it is an engrossing tale of a naagin's revenge on the men who killed her lover. The show is certainly better than the average ones that the viewers see on the small screen and makes for an interesting watch. 

 
 
  The show begins with the priests warning business tycoon Andy Sehgal (Chetan Hansraj) not to demolish the 'maha Shiv mandir' as it houses naag raaj and other powerful creatures. The latter refuses to listen to them. He wants to build a hotel on his newly-acquired land. However, the destruction work is stopped by a storm. Several naags appear and kill the contractor and his men. Elsewhere, Andy's son Yuvi and his gang of friends go to the same property at night to a party. Since it is 'purnima ki raat', it is also the time for Roohi ( ) and Vikrant (Rajat Tokas) to reunite. After waiting for 100 years, they are blessed by the 'maha shakti' to get married and take the human form. While they are in an embrace, they are spotted by Yuvi, Adi and the rest of the gang. They separate the lovers, harass Roohi and end up killing Vikrant. This makes Roohi furious and she decides to seek revenge. 
 
 Six months later, Pratham and Yuvi, who are half brothers, are all set to tie the knot. They all arrive at a hotel near the same land. It is learned that Andy is married to Sumitra (Rakshanda Khan), with whom he has two sons, Mahir and Yuvi. He also had an affair with Paulomi, and the two have an illegitimate son, Pratham. Bela ( ), Yuvi's fiance, agrees to the match to pay off her father's loan while Suhani loves Pratham. A party is hosted the same night to introduce everyone. A hotel guest, Vish Khanna ( ), who was invited by Yuvi, makes it to the bash and lures Yuvi to the same land and turns into a snake. However, Yuvi manages to escape. Vish follows him and while he is getting engaged, she kills two of his friends.
 
 
 : The storyline moves at a swift pace, and the tale of revenge keeps you hooked. The editing is crisp. Karishma Tanna as the show's protagonist does full justice to the part and fits in Mouni Roy's shoes by playing her part convincingly. Anita Hassanandani is sensuous and stylish and justifies the ease with which she attracts men. Surbhi Jyoti's confidence and acting skills impress. Rajat Tokas and Rakshanda Khan look their part. Karishma Tanna and Rajat Tokas look good together.
 
 
 
 
 
 : It is the typical elements which look repetitive and spoil the fun like flashes of storm, ringing of temple bells, images of shivling etc. Chetan Hansraj's attitude and demeanor is a tad extra. Similarly, Pearl V Puri's over sincere character is hard to digest. As in all the cases, between the two sons - one is always shown to be more sincere, and the other reckless. This adds to the predictable things shown in the show including Surbhi Jyoti's marriage with Yuvi to settle her father's debts. The forest location, mandir and the resort look familiar.
 
 Going by the first weekend, the show looks promising with several interesting twists in the plot that keep you interested. It remains to be seen how it manages to do in the coming weeks. 
 
