KOLKATA: Opposition parties claimed they couldn’t file a single nomination in the four-hour window on Monday, even though 300 uniformed cops patrolled outside the Alipore Treasury Building. The reason: there were over 500 men and women — allegedly supporters of the ruling party — questioning every passer-by, preventing potential candidates from filing nominations, even as the posse of cops outside chose to focus their attention only on mediapersons, trying to stop them from filming whatever was happening inside.

 The official filing of nominations began at 11am and continued till 3pm. But during the entire process, TOImade multiple rounds of the premises to find hundreds of men clad in T shirts, denims and most of them riding bikes, entering the Alipore Court premises and camping outside the Treasury Building, where the nomination-filing process was on.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Police were deployed outside the building and Section 144 CrPC had been imposed around it on Monday. But some of the officers themselves were found opening the gates for the bikes to enter the premises, a gross violation in itself. There were hundreds of women, too, sitting on the floor opposite the building and questioning every individual who passed by to know if s/he had come to file nomination papers. TOI found the men blocking entry to the building and questioning everyone about the purpose of their visit. Miraz Khalid, the deputy commissioner of south division, said he was unaware that men had entered the premises and would take action if someone was found violating the code of conduct. “We will run an inquiry and take action if some people on bikes were found entering the premises,” he said.
 
  Islam Baig, the Congress candidate for   in South 24-Parganas who could not file his nomination for the office of zila parishad earlier, had come to file his nomination on Monday, but went missing for hours after he entered the building. “Nazrul was stopped by a group of Trinamool cadres. They beat him and took him to another corner of the premises. They snatched his phone and we cannot contact him any more,” said  , who was accompanying Nazrul and was waiting for him outside the court premises.
 
 Alipore district magistrate   said he was yet to check the number of nominations submitted on Monday. “I am busy now. I didn’t get time to check the number of nominations submitted today,” he said around 5pm. Spokespersons of Congress,   and CPM said none of their candidates could submit nominations. Both Congress’s and BJP’s spokespersons said three of their candidates were held captive for several hours on the premises and were released only after 4pm.
 
 Journalists were not spared either. A woman reporter with a Bengali news channel was allegedly assaulted and held captive at a room on the court premises for several hours when she tried to photograph the gathering outside. She was later rescued by policemen. Another reporter from a Bengali news daily, too, was attacked and held captive for hours before fellow journalists rescued him. “The men grabbed me by the collar and dragged me to a desolate corner in front of policemen who did nothing. They kept me captive for over an hour, snatched my phone and a fitness band and punched me before letting me go, but kept my gadgets,” he said. Both journalists lodged police complaints. Supratim Sarkar, the joint commissioner of police (HQ), however, said that they were “yet to receive any specific complaint regarding assault on journalists”.
 
