PATNA: The state   will soon set up eight   across the state, which will warn department officials of   strikes half an hour in advance.

 The department has initiated the process for roping in a firm for conducting survey and installing the sensors.
 
 An official said on Monday each sensor could cover an area of 1,000 km in its radius. “With eight sensors in place, we will get adequate and accurate data,” he said and added the surveying agency would identify the strategic locations for installing the sensors.
 
 According to sources, a sum of Rs 500 crore is allotted every year to the state by the Centre for disaster relief fund, of which 10% is meant for mitigating the damages due to region-specific disasters. In case of Bihar, such disasters include lightning, road and boat accidents, deaths due to sunstroke and drowning, rail and air accidents.
 
 Last year, the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM)-Pune had planned to install three lightning-detecting sensors in Bihar. Each sensor was proposed to cover a radius of 150km. 
 
 “The IITM officials have not installed the sensors till date. They will be visiting Bihar on May 9 for a workshop on ‘Air Quality Assessment Report of Patna’. We plan to discuss the issue with them,” Bihar State Disaster Management Authority’s vice-chairman Vyasji said on Monday. 
 
 Many hurt in squall: Reports of people being injured due to thunderstorm and squall poured in from various parts of the state on Monday. 
 
 Three people were injured in Dhamdaha block of Purnia district when they were struck by lightning on Monday morning. State disaster management department’s OSD Avinash Kumar said two people were injured in Behpura village under the Bihta police station area in   district when a tree fell on their car.
 
 One person was reported to have died after getting struck by lightning in Bahubarhi block of Madhubani district on Sunday. Kumar said four other deaths were reported from Madhubani district later in the day on Sunday. “One was due to lightning while three others were due to thunderstorm and squall,” Kumar said. 
 
 Sources in the department said one death due to lightning was reported from Madhepur block while three other deaths due to thunderstorm and squall were reported from Lakhnaur block. 
 
 
