CHENNAI: At a time when wrist spinners are ruling world cricket, 18-year-old India offspinner   quietly walked away with the Man-of-the-Series award in the  . Washington, operating with the new ball, emerged the leading wicket-taker (eight wickets) with an impressive economy rate of 5.70 in five matches.

 
 
 
 In an exclusive interview to TOI, Washington mentioned that finger spinners “can be as effective as” wrist spinners in limited-overs cricket. The lanky player from Chennai opened up on his success with the new ball, how he outthinks batsmen in the Powerplays, expectations and challenges ahead of his   stint with the   and more. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I had the belief that I would get another opportunity (after the Lanka T20Is at home). I was mentally prepared for everything. But I never expected to end up with the Man-of-the-Series award. I started off well in the first two games and I just wanted to carry forward the momentum.
 
 
 
 
 
 Wrist spinners are magical. However, I feel finger spinners can be as effective as left-arm and wrist spinners. Most teams prefer left-armers or legspinner, especially in the shorter versions. But I feel even offspinners can be as effective as the other two provided they are proactive. If you can double-guess the batsman and be one up on the mind-set every ball, then you can be good. Sometimes, an offspinners’ classical delivery with a bit of loop and turn might not suit this format. Offspinners certainly need to do a lot of homework before every game.
 
 
 
 In Powerplays you don’t have the option to bowl outside. You can vary the length but can’t tinker with line except for the bluff delivery maybe. It’s more about pace variations. You can pick things from a batsman’s stance or from where his bat comes. It’s about guessing the batsman’s mind-set and being adaptable till the end. For example, Mushfiqur Rahim’s bat comes close to the body, while Kusal’s (Perera) comes from second slip which means his zone will be mid-wicket or long on. If you guess those, you have a chance to go one up.
 
 
 
 
 
 If you bowl a good ball and the batsman hits you for a boundary, Rohit will pat you on the back and say well bowled. He doesn’t shy away from setting traps and getting wickets in the Powerplay. He is an amazing captain. Shastri sir and Arun sir had great belief in me. They give youngsters the confidence and infuse the feeling of being a match-winner.
 
 
 
 If people say I have set a standard, then I should be looking to go higher. I’m really excited to play under Kohli. He is a legend and has been truly inspiring. The challenge will be to overcome all the analysis that’s been done. I have always admired Vettori’s bowling. It will be different working with him - he is a modern-day coach who knows the current generation of cricketers. I’m looking forward to it.
 
 
 
 It will be exciting to bowl alongside him. Ours is a good combination. He is a legspinner and I turn the ball other way. It gives a variety to the attack. We are accurate and have been wicket-takers. If we can take at least four wickets for our team per match, it will great.
 
 
 
 Washington moved up a phenomenal 151 places to 31st while   jumped 12 spots to No. 2 in the ICC T20I Player Rankings for bowlers on the back of their impressive show in the just-concluded Nidahas Trophy Tri-Series in Sri Lanka. Legspinner Chahal now has a career-high 706 rating points while offspinner Washington, who was named Man of the Series, has 496 points.
 
