NEW DELHI:   got in touch with India through diplomatic channels to protest Army chief  's comments on calling Islamabad's   bluff, reported The Nation, a Pakistani newspaper, quoting unnamed government officials.

 "India has been told that such statements will only worsen the tension. These statements invite reaction and counter-reaction," said unnamed Pakistani foreign ministry officials to The Nation.
 
 Last week, Rawat said "Pakistan's nuclear bogey" will be thoroughly exposed were there to be war with the western neighbour, which often brandishes its short-range Nasr (Hatf-IX) nuclear missiles as a battlefield counter to India's `Cold Start' strategy of swift, high-intensity conventional attacks into enemy territory. 
 
 "We will call their bluff. If given the task, we will not say we cannot cross the border because they have nuclear weapons," said Rawat. 
 
 Pakistan, of course, didn't like this kind of talk.
 
 Another unnamed Pakistani official said that India was told "not to create an atmosphere of uncertainty as regional issues cannot be resolved without peace and dialogue", reported The Nation.
 
 Officially, too, Pakistan immediately reacted to Rawat's statement on the day he made it.
 
 Pakistani foreign minister   called Rawat's statement "very irresponsible" in a tweet.
 
 Pakistan's military announced last year that it has enhanced NASR missiles' flight manoeuvrability and extended its range to 70 kilometres from 60. The country's minister for defence production Rana Tanveer Hussain said yesterday that Pakistan has advanced nuclear and missile technology that enables it to target every Indian city.
 
 On his part, Rawat said US President Donald Trump's stern warning to Pakistan against harbouring terrorists won't lead to any concrete change on the ground as far as India was concerned.
 
 "We will have to do our own job," he said, adding the US had its own "compulsions" to maintain relations with Pakistan.
 
 The Indian Army, Rawat said, continues its punitive fire assaults to "inflict pain" on Pakistan Army for actively abetting cross-border terrorism and infiltration, with the latter suffering "three to four times more casualties".
 
 
