LUCKNOW: Around 4,000 Urdu teachers have announced to stage a sit-in from Saturday, claiming that they are facing discrimination at the hands of the basic education department.

 
 The teachers, under the banner of   UP, have qualified Basic Training Certificate (BTC). They said that while the state government had recruited more than 12,000 BTC qualified teachers after the high court’s order, the 4,000 Urdu teachers had been sidelined.
 
 As a protest, the association has decided to organise a sit-in from Saturday at Eco-Garden in   till May
 
 12. After this, the 4,000 teachers have threatened to gherao the chief minister’s residence in Lucknow.
 
 According to the association, a government order was promulgated in December 2016, enlisting guidelines for conversion of 4,000 posts of the total 16,460 BTC posts exclusively for Urdu teachers. Counselling for the 16,460 posts began in March 2017.
 
 “On the second day of counselling for Urdu teachers on March 23, the process was suddenly stopped. Some government officials told us that all recruitments under the   government will be probed. After waiting for months, in July 2017, we moved the high court,” said state president of the association  .
 
 “The high court in November 2017 ruled in our favour and asked the government to finish the recruitment process within two months. But the state government filed a special leave petition against the order. This too was struck down by court on April 12, 2018. The court asked the government to complete recruitment on all 16,460 within two months,” she added.
 
 While the process for recruitment of 12,460 BTC teachers started on April 16 and teachers were given joining letters on May 1, Urdu teachers were kept aside without any notice, the association said.
 
 “Since we are Urdu teachers, although it is all subjects we have to teach, we are being discriminated against. It is not just Muslims who teach Urdu and not just Muslim students who study it. But the government is clearly discriminating against the language,” said  .
 
 Despite repeated attempts to speak to basic education authorities for their reaction, there was no response.
 
