NEW DELHI: In what will make the ride to IGI Airport and Gurgaon from   smoother, the National Highways Authority of India on Thursday opened a new 600metre slip road through  . 

 
  
 
 The slip road is expected to ease the congestion between Subroto Park crossing and Parade Road intersection (where traffic to the airport and Gurgaon turns left), a half-km stretch that takes at least 10 minutes to cross. Jams are common on this stretch since traffic coming through four lanes merges into two lanes at Parade Road
 crossing before taking a sharp turn for the airport. “We have started work on building flyovers and underpasses to make this entire stretch signal-free. We hope to complete it before next May,” highways minister Nitin Gadkari said.
 
 At least four lakh vehicles take this stretch daily. "We don't realise how much time and fuel is wasted because of delay in small decisions and not having an open minded approach," the minister said. Ministry estimates show that daily wastage of fuel on Dhaula Kuan stretch is close to Rs 40 lakh. 
 
 
  
 
 After getting stuck in a monster snarl in March 2015, Gadkari had taken up the task of making the stretch signal free, but it took more than three years due to delays in getting required land from the defence ministry and securing all the green approvals. "We got the permission to cut trees only on Wednesday. We have started work on building the elevated and underground stretches," a senior   official said. The highway minister had lashed out at the defence ministry for its conservative attitude to sharing the land, which had forced both Delhi   and NHAI to compromise on the design of the rail and road networks on this stretch. While the new slip road is a welcome sign, the commuters will have to wait for another year for a seamless drive to IGI. 
 
  TOI visited the stretch on Thursday and found how poor traffic management has resulted in chaos and congestion between the Metro station and Subroto Park crossing. The problem gets aggravated when traffic coming from the service road merges with the main road at Subroto Park crossing, which is badly designed. 
 
 "We will try to find some immediate solution including whether this vehicle merging point can be improved. This will improve the traffic flow from Metro station side," the NHAI official said.
 
 
