During her career in Telugu, she did 81 films. Her expressive features in the song ‘Boochamma Boochodu’ in Badi Panthulu, released in 1972, showed the nine-yearold’s acting prowess. Interestingly, she played the role of N T Rama Rao’s granddaughter in the film. In 1979, when she was 15 years old, she paired with the actor as his heroine in Vetagaadu. This film too was directed by K Raghavendra Rao. The song ‘Aaku Chantu Pinda Thadesi’ from the film did full justice to her beauty.

 During the 80s, it was a neck and neck race for supremacy between   and  . Much as Jaya Prada’s beauty captivated all, Sridevi’s childlike teasing voice combined with her acting chops gave her the edge. But the success never went to her head and she was never known to be arrogant. The only thing that would put off film reporters was her answer to every question — “Amma nu adagandi” (Ask my mother).
 
  
  
 It was only last year that she spoke her mind about director S S Rajamouli, who made Baahubali. “I was shocked when I saw him on TV saying that I had made many unreasonable demands to act in Baahubali. If that was the kind of actress I was, I would not have acted in more than 300 films in many languages throughout my film career,” she told reporters in Hyderabad.
 
 Sridevi was reportedly offered the role of Sivagami, which was eventually played by Ramya Krishna. It was rumoured that she had asked for ₹10 crore to do the role, 10 flight tickets and an entire floor in a five-star hotel. She denied it all and said she did not expect a director like Rajamouli, with whom she wished to work, to spread falsehood about her.
 
 Even though she ended her Tollywood career in 1994, the 1980s in Telugu film industry will always remain Sridevi’s era. She acted with all the top heroes of the day, NTR, Akkineni Nageshwara Rao, Krishna and Shobhan Babu. Films such as Kartheeka Deepam, Vetagaadu, Kondaveeti Simham, Premabhishekham, Bobbili Puli, Justice Chowdhary, Jagadeka Veerudu Athiloka Sundari and Kshana Kshanam are a tribute to her acting skills.
 
 
 
