AHMEDABAD: Chairman of the The   ( ), Justice  , exuded that, “By and large, the commission is satisfied with the state government’s dealings with human rights cases that came up for hearing at the two-day open sitting, organised for complainants from the SC-ST community.” 

 
 
  
 
 Dattu, however, admitted that the commission was unaware of the state’s actions in the 2012 Thangadh police firing incident, where three Dalit youths were killed or the much-publicised Una Dalit flogging incident, where the victims recently declared that they will convert to Buddhism because of the state’s apathy. 
 
 “I am hearing of the Thangadh firing incident for the first time,” Dattu said. He added that the commission can only speak on cases represented before it. While interacting with the press at Gujarat Police Academy in Karai, Dattu said the NHRC-full bench was informed by NGOs that STs and Dalits in nearly 75% of Gujarat villages reported untouchability and caste-based atrocities. 
 
 “We have categorically asked the chief secretary and the state DGP to take proactive action against perpetrators.” He also highlighted how the NHRC had taken suo-moto cognisance of schoolchildren having to cross a river to reach school in  . About of the high rate of child mortality at Ahmedabad’s   in October last year, Dattu said, “We have demanded the enquiry report for these deaths.” 
 
 On whether the commission was satisfied at the choice of the Karai police academy as the venue for the hearing, and whether SC-ST victims of police excesses and custodial torture would be intimidated, Justice P C Ghose replied, “The commission’s conscience is clear. We look at facts and we hear both sides impartially.” 
 
 In the case of manual scavenging deaths, of which there were 161 in the state, NHRC member   said, “The state government has assured Rs 10 lakh compensation for each of the 40 victims who died after 2014.” 
 
 The commission said that of the 17.5 lakh human rights cases across the country since the inception of the NHRC, Gujarat has reported 26,500 cases.
 
 
