NAGPUR: At a time when the cash-strapped Nagpur Municipal Corporation is ‘forced’ to raise Rs 100 crore loan to meet its expenses, the property   department is sitting on a proposal to confiscate and auction movable properties like television sets, refrigerators and other assets of around 1.92 lakh defaulters with less than Rs 25,000  . The outstanding tax amount due from such defaulters comes to around Rs 74.86 crore.

 On January 6, TOI had reported that the department had prepared a proposal to confiscate and auction movable properties as it enjoys powers under rule 42 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act. 
 
 As per the proposal, if   owners fail to pay tax, the   will first inform the local police station before confiscating their household items proportionate with the tax dues. 
 
 The NMC has identified the property owners after it issued notices to tax defaulters several times asking to clear the arrears. The department has set a deadline of March 31 and if the defaulters fail to clear their dues, the NMC will confiscate the assets from their homes or commercial establishments, the proposal has stated. 
 
 For those whose outstanding tax dues exceed Rs 25,000, the civic body has already started auctioning their properties. According to statistics, there are around 7,906 defaulters who have individual outstanding property tax of above Rs 25,000 and the total outstanding from such citizens comes to around Rs 148.93 crore.
 
 Of the 5.37 lakh properties, the city has about 2,00,521 properties towards which payment of tax is pending from one to several years.
 
 The failure to crack down on them has proved costly for the NMC which complains of lack of funds for the city’s development, standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav said. If executed meticulously, an estimated Rs 223.79 crore could fill up its coffers, eliminating the need to avail loan.
 
 Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve ridiculed the NMC for its inability to take action against tax defaulters. According to him, the decision to confiscate movable properties of defaulters is justifiable. He further blamed this to the ruling BJP for its inability to improve revenue of the civic body.
 
 Jadhav admitted that due to ignorant attitude of the civic administration, the property tax collection was not satisfactory. Citing an example, he pointed out that NMC owes around Rs 60 crore from property owners whose dues are below Rs 5,000. He, however, expressed confidence that the revenue from the tax will improve in the last month of this fiscal.
 
 
