TRICHY: As in 2017, bulls getting injured in jallikattu in the coming days will get first-aid treatment from the animal medical mobile ambulances ( ) to be stationed at the venues. This would be in addition to the measures already being taken to ensure the safety of the animal at the event. 

 The two AMMA vehicles to be deployed at the 16 proposed venues would ensure on-the-spot treatment for minor injuries besides swift action to move the severely injured bulls to the higher centres. The vehicles have been maintained by the veterinary university training and research centre (VUTRC). To start with, AMMA will be stationed at   in   taluk on January 15. 
 
 The vehicles have been equipped with ultrasound scanner, animal lifting facility etc for effective treatment. The bull will be brought to government veterinary hospital in  , veterinary college and research institute at Orathanadu in Thanjavur or veterinary poly clinic at   in Trichy by AMMA. Each ambulance will have two doctors. 
 
 The ambulances were procured by the department of animal husbandry in December 2016 through the directorate of clinics of   Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) under national agriculture development program (NADP). The two vehicles had served the bulls in the series of jallikattu events that took place in several places across Trichy district last year. 
 
 “Bulls sustaining any injury will be taken care of by the medical team accompanying the ambulances. In most of the cases, there will be minor injuries. In case of any fracture or major problems, they will be immediately taken to the higher centres,” said the district-level coordinator and professor and head at VUTRC in Trichy, Dr P N Richard Jagatheesan.
 
 Joint director (in-charge) of department of animal husbandry, Trichy Dr S   advised the bull owners to avoid providing the animals with stimulants like liquor. “We won’t allow cruelty to animals in any form. Some may administrative such stuff to stimulate the bulls. We have advised the owners to keep off such practices. Even though there were no such complaints in the previous years, our duty is to remind them of the rules and regulations,” said JD Dr Murugesan. 
 
 The bull examination team comprising three veterinarians in each location will thoroughly check the health condition, deformities, diseases and flesh wounds before permitting them to participate in the sport. Another three doctors will form the bull treatment team who will be available at the venue to provide treatment. 
 
 
