Actress Rebecca Santhosh’s latest role as   in the serial   has already made her a favourite among the Malayalam telly audience. Though the tall and beautiful actress portrays a matured, bold advocate on screen, the 19-year-old Thrissur native says she is totally different in real life from her small screen avatar.
Unlike many who say that they ventured into acting accidentally, Rebecca says that it has been her passion and she wants achieve her space in showbiz. Rebecca, who also played an important role in Surabhi Lakshmi’s film  , joins us for a candid chat:
 
  
 
 
 
 
 I have been a jovial person right from my childhood. Like every child, I loved to take part in cultural events at school. I was active during the school youth festivals and participated in orchestra, kathaprasangam, music and all sorts of cultural events. My tryst with acting began when I was in Class 5 when I performed in a drama. This paved way for my acting debut through the serial Kunjikoonnan, which aired on Asianet in 2011.
 Later, I bagged the role of child artiste in the Jayaram-starrer Thiruvambadi Thamban. I was in Class 10 that time and so had to take a break from acting to concentrate on academics.
 It was the serial Mizhirandilum, which aired in Surya TV that introduced me as a heroine in the small screen. I played Anagha, a possessive, short-tempered and bold girl. The role helped me get bag a character last year in   in which I played a ghost named Gouri. I look for unique roles and this character of a ghost fit the bill.
 The serial was about re-birth and human relationships and thanks to that, I did not have to wear a white sari like the clichéd prethams. Neermathalam’s director S Janardhanan chose me as he had said that my eyes are wide and resembled actress Shobhana’s which was apt for the ghost Gouri. 
 Each of my serials have helped me bag new acting assignments, and the role in Neermathalam landed me the offer to play Charu, the daughter of actress   in the film Minnaminungu.
 
 
 
 
 
 Minnaminungu moulded the actor in me. Surabhi chechi was my amma in the film and I still call her the same. The film won her a National Award for Best Actress and for me was a great acting experience. As the movie is about mother-daughter relationship, we had many emotional scenes to perform.
 There is a scene where my amma cries all night when she is informed that I am preparing to migrate to another country. To make it real, apart from using glycerine, she rubbed her eyes with onions to make it red and puffy. She strained a lot for that particular scene. That revealed her dedication to her roles and no wonder she bagged the highest acting award in the country.
 I also received many acting tips from Surabhi chechi, especially on portraying emotions on screen. The lesson I learnt was, more than delivering the dialogues, we should take effort to respond in front of camera as if we are the characters in real life.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The role is a feather on my cap. The story revolves around a self-trained artist Sethulakshmi, played by Paraveena and her three young daughters, Kavya, Keerthy and Kalyani. 
 When the makers of the serial narrated the plot to me and my role, I was interested. Unlike the usual serials, my role Kavya is not the kanneer nayika. Being an advocate, she is bold enough to take care of her family including her two younger sisters and mother though they are financially down. 
 My favourite episode was when Kavya’s wedding was cancelled because her fiance asks a hefty sum as dowry. It shatters the whole family but Kavya never cried or begged him; rather she shouted at the guy to get out of her house. I like her because whenever grief embraces her life she cries secretly and then pulls up the courage to support her family during bad times.
 I have been receiving positive feedback from the audience including youngsters. They laud her courage and the bold decisions that she takes in her life.
 When I attend the events many middle-aged women congratulate me for the bold decisions. I think nowadays the viewers are fed up of watching sob stories and are more interested in realistic subjects which feature women in bold avatars. My mother loves my role, especially when I wear the advocate’s coat on screen.
 
 
 
 
 
 In real life, I am the adichpoli type girl and not as matured as Kavya. I am an easy-going, adventurous, and happy-go-lucky person. Apart from my first love acting, I love trekking and riding bikes. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Currently, I am pursuing Bachelor of Management Studies at Saint Theresa’s College in Ernakulam. I want to become a cinematographer after completing my graduation. Director Sreejith Vijayan, who is helming  , is my role model and like him, I wish to perfect my skill in cinematography before I try my hand on direction. In acting, I would like to be part of theatre productions as acting live on stage helps an actor.
 
 
