New Delhi: Thousands of metro commuters on Blue   had a tough time on Thursday afternoon after the snag-prone corridor witnessed another technical glitch, disrupting operations on the busy stretch for 90 minutes.

 The   occurred at 2.05pm in the electrical overhead equipment ( ) between Karol Bagh and RK Ashram Marg stations on the Dwarka-bound Up line of the Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre/Vaishali corridor. To tackle the problem and identify the reason, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) started managing train services on the line in three loops.
 
 While a technical team tried to identify and rectify the problem, single-line services were carried out on the Down line (towards Vaishali/Noida City Centre) between Kirti Nagar and Barakhamba Road stations. DMRC ran services on both lines between Barakhamba Road and Noida City Centre/Vaishali and between Kirti Nagar and Dwarka Sector 21.
 
 With trains moving on a single track in a major section, the operations on the entire 50km corridor got affected. Though DMRC claimed that the services were normal in the unaffected sections, commuters complained of huge delays.
 
 “I was travelling from Dwarka and around 2pm, the train suddenly slowed down. After the train halting at Ramesh Nagar for over 15 minutes and at Moti Nagar for five minutes, all passengers were de-boarded at Kirti Nagar,” said Sanjay Mehrotra, a commuter. Announcements were made about a technical problem but no information was given about its nature or about the time required to fix it, he added. 
 
 Mukesh Sharma, another commuter who had to catch a train from New Delhi railway station, boarded the metro from Vaishali. “My train was scheduled to leave New Delhi station at 3.30pm. Though I had left home early, I had no clue that the metro would be crawling towards Rajiv Chowk,” he said. The train started stopping at each station for 10 to 20 minutes and he had to de-board at Nirman Vihar and take an auto. “Otherwise, I would have missed my train,” said Sharma. 
 
 “The metro took more than one hour to cross just 10 stations. Thankfully, the snag didn’t occur during peak hours, otherwise passengers would have fallen sick due to overcrowding,” said Naina Kumar, who was travelling from Noida to Rajiv Chowk. “There were no announcement about the reason for the delay and DMRC officials gave us no information,” she added.
 
 A DMRC spokesperson said normal services were restored in the affected section at 3.35pm.
 
 
