CHENNAI: Hectic parleys are on to rescind the expulsion of former   spokesman K C Palanisamy as many senior leaders in the party feel the leadership acted in haste, without giving him an opportunity to explain his case when he had only championed the cause of Tamil Nadu farmers.

 Sources said chief minister   has deputed his trusted lieutenant and senior minister S P Velumani to work out a patch-up formula. A minister said Edappadi was not in favour of expelling  , but had no other alternative when deputy chief minister and party steering committee coordinator   insisted on sacking KCP. He was expelled for suggesting in a television interview that the AIADMK support the no-confidence motion against the   government in Delhi.
 
  was apparently incensed over KCP and many of his erstwhile supporters distancing themselves from him after the merger of the EPS and OPS factions in September last year. 
 
 “Most leaders were unhappy with the hasty decision taken by OPS in merging the two factions. Though many of us raised objection to the merger plan, none wanted to be a stumbling block. We realized our mistake of supporting OPS only after the merger,” said a senior leader.
 
 The OPS loyalists’ unhappiness grew as they were not rewarded with any party post after the merger. The much hyped steering committee has been purposefully kept truncated to restrict the power to a handful of people. While EPS is the joint coordinator of the committee, K P Munusamy and Rajya Sabha member R Vaithialingam are deputy coordinators. “How can OPS expect loyalty when he never fought for recognition for his supporters?” asked a senior leader.
 
 After KCP’s expulsion, the party leadership hurriedly appointed about two dozen organizing secretaries, accommodating the OPS supporters as well, to quell a possible rebellion.
 
 The party leadership is concerned as despite his expulsion, many senior leaders are in constant touch with KCP. His efforts to launch a forum in the name of AIADMK founder M G Ramachandran is yet another worry for EPS as both of them hail from the powerful Gounder community, which has traditionally backed the ruling party. 
 
 “We already have enough and more problems on hand. The verdict in the MLAs’ disqualification case is expected any time. At this juncture, creating yet another enemy within the party should have been avoided,” said a senior leader.
 
 
