Started in June 2016, Bengaluru-based   — a four-piece band — was formed with the intent of performing Kannada   in the city. What started as a college band has now slowly grown into a professional one. Talking about the journey, flautist Nischal Kashyap says, “Kalatva means music in Sanskrit. We started the band when we were in college. Though some of the members graduated, we continued to perform as a band. Now, we collaborate with several other artistes from the city from time to time.”

 Kalatva performs classical fusion instrumental music and covers of Hindi and Kannada  , in addition to their own compositions. However, the band’s heart lies in performing   music. “Our main intention is to play Kannada songs. But often, the management of pubs and other venues don’t let us play Kannada music, claiming that people demand music in other languages, which can be a problem,” he says. So, what does the band do in that case? “That is one of our biggest challenges. When venues don’t let us play Kannada music, we rearrange the music according to the demand. We play Kannada instrumental and for vocals we switch to Hindi covers,” he adds.
 
 But doesn’t this affect their style of music? “To be honest, it doesn’t. We have a passion for music. People will listen to good music irrespective of the language. We perform instrumental Kannada songs at flea markets and malls. People listen to it and they request us to play more Kannada songs. That makes us happy,” says Nischal. Who has been the band’s inspiration? “Artistes like Raghu and Vasu Dixit are our inspiration, because they perform Kannada songs,” he says. The band has also performed at several cleanliness drives in the past. What makes them perform at such events? “I’m a member of an NGO called Let’s Be The Change. Through this group, we organise cleanliness drives in the city and at one such event we thought, ‘Why not perform at these events?’ We feel that by performing at such drives we are able to contribute to society through music. As of now, we have performed at over four cleanliness drives this year alone,” Nischal sums up.
 
 
 
