CENTURION: Replace   with Shikhar Dhawan. It's a joke that began doing the rounds on Twitter in the final session of the fourth day's play at SuperSport Park, after Rahul's very poor dismissal - a cut, a slash, a punch, not describable yet - that saw him hole out at backward point.

 
 
 
 
 Rahul clearly didn't look in the right frame of mind - given the awkward manner in which his feet stood frozen - to play that shot. Only four overs before, Murali Vijay had bowled himself out and the last thing the Bengaluru opener needed was anything flashy, even by half.
 
 
 
 The abject manner of the dismissal was an instant reminder to Shikhar Dhawan's in the first innings of the first Test match in Cape Town. Facing   of all bowlers, the Delhi left-hander had tried a half-pull, half-something when the ball ballooned high up in the air and back to the bowler.
 
 Dhawan would pay a heavy price for it by getting dropped from the eleven. The repeat, by Rahul, was not just a joke on Twitter. The joke, in fact, was on Team India.
 
 With less than 25 overs of play left for stumps, the last thing India needed was a dismissal. Even kids bowling in the nets next to the SuperSport Park would have understood it. Not the Indian openers.
 
 In the eighth over of India's second innings, Murali Vijay went forward to play a Kagiso Rabada delivery that stayed low. Deliveries staying low had been on the day's menu even when South Africa batted but Vijay moving forward in line with the ball certainly didn't help. Offering the bat led to a thick inside edge that went all the way in to the leg stump.
 
 Chasing 287 runs, India were 16-2 when   joined   for the third wicket. Coming into this innings, Kohli was on a high. Given that his bowlers had managed to keep the target below 300, and the skipper had scored an impressive 153 in the first innings, there was much for him to look forward to.
 
 Here's where playing South Africa in South Africa, apropos of the wicket, can be seen as ominous. Philander, Morkel, Rabada and Ngidi, the debutant being as disciplined as any, kept running in. And with them were a handful of South African spectators baying for blood.
 
 Every ball got lauded from the stands. Every second ball went for an appeal. Every third ball a wicket seemed certain. The fourth over after Rahul's dismissal got Kohli too.
 
 To be fair to the captain, this one from Ngidi simply turned out to be un-negotiable. It inclined from the outside and stayed low to fox Kohli.
 
 The Indian dressing room appeared empty. Wicket-keeper-batsman   walked out ahead of Rohit Sharma, the batsman whose Test selection has been under scanner so far, and is bound to attract all the possible attention on Wednesday when the time come for him to walk out on the field.
 
 Barring Kohli, the Indian batsmen clearly appeared to be out of place and yet again, barring his dismissal, the other two have once again put the team in a position from where a defeat is what they stare at. 
 
