All Athira wanted was to marry the man she loved, and the Malappuram girl stood strong by her decision, despite her father’s opposition. 

 But then, on the eve of her wedding, her dad Rajan fatally stabbed the 22-year-old, killing two things simultaneously — a smart young woman as well as her right to choose her partner. One might argue that an incident of this magnitude is a one-off instance, but the question remains — How much freedom do Malayali youngsters enjoy in picking their life partners, despite all the education and the so-called modernity of our society? We chat up a few and here’s what they told us:
 
 
 
 All men and women above the age of 21 have the right to vote, marry, have kids, drive and also take up a job. However, most youngsters opine that neither the society nor the families are able to digest the fact that they have the freedom to select one’s partner on their own from that age onwards. Kochi-based MSW student Thomas Paul, who married his girlfriend Vani last year, despite her community’s opposition, says, “Even now, it is instilled in our minds that the ideal way to get married is ‘only with parental consent’. People are brainwashed to believe it right from a young age. Our MSW background helped us think beyond such restrictions, but education does not always do the trick for all.”
 
 Many families now casually tell youngsters, ‘We are ok with you finding someone on your own,’ hinting that they are modern enough. But the fine print says, ‘Conditions apply!’ ‘The one you pick should be from our religion, caste, should have matching financial status...’ the list goes on. Parvathy S, a media professional, married her boyfriend Mathew about five years ago. “I have elder brothers who had also picked their own partners, but the families didn’t approve of my relationship citing differences in religion, social status and more. Their stance was that I should have selected someone who ticks all the boxes in the ‘match-checker’ list. Mutual love or compatibility does not really figure on this ridiculous list.” So, while the idea of picking a partner on your own isn’t an issue in itself, problems crop up mostly when their ‘credentials’ don’t match with that of the family expectations, couples explain.
 
 Even in cases in which the family has half a mind to accept their choice of partner despite the differences, many fear that society will alienate them. Sai Kiran*, who works in the Merchant Navy, married his girlfriend Anu in 2013 despite family opposition about their different castes. He says, “We stood by our decision and finally they had to relent. After the wedding, they disclosed to us that their main concern was ‘What will people say?’”
 
 
 
 Religious and caste differences top the list among the ‘reasons to deny the freedom to choose a partner,’ according to most youngsters. This is true regardless of how educated the parties involved are. Ask Thomas what could be a solution and he says, ‘There are none, I feel, unless we voluntarily break out of religious shackles, individually. When religion is the priority, people can’t think even in terms of equality or humanism.”
 
 So what can we do about the prevailing cultural climate that opposes freedom? Feba Sam, a techie, says, “The least youngsters can do is keep supporting couples who want to select their own partners, massively. Only with more weddings cutting across such divisions, can change happen.” Family court counsellor K P Muhammed points out, “In my opinion, our society will continue to have reasons to frown at inter-caste or inter-religious weddings, thanks to the strictly followed caste system and other divisions in our minds, despite what the constitution says. Our youngsters have no other option but to stand by their choices and hope that societal approval falls in place, which can happen over time.”
 
 
 
 In April 2014, the Delhi High Court had ruled that the right to choose one’s life partner is a fundamental right. This was stated in a case similar to that of Athira’s, in which 24-year-old Nitish Katara lost his life in an honour killing bid by his lover’s family. The court had said, “The instant case manifests that even in a household belonging to the highest class in society — one in which you can make day trips with friends from Ghaziabad to Mumbai just to celebrate a birthday, own multiple businesses and properties, luxury vehicles etc — what can happen to even a young, educated, articulate daughter if she attempted to break away from the conventional caste confines and explored a lifetime alliance with a member of another caste. Especially one who was also perceived to be of a lesser economic status.”
 
 At the same time, there have been instances in which even the courts did not come to the rescue of adult couples and passed verdicts on regressive lines. Perhaps, only with time will such backward practises be a thing of the past.
 
 
