MOHALI:   Charmal River, a seasonal rivulet, is creating problems for the nearby areas. The local residents are complaining that the water of the rivulet, which is ailing due to industrial effluents, produces foul smell and damage crops.

 Charmal and Ghaggar rivers are the major source of irrigation for the farmers, who generally grow vegetables here. However, in the last couple of the years, people have scaled down the production due to polluted water.
 
 “Official of the   pollution control board, who visited the site on Friday, did not take any water samples,” a source said.
 
 What is more interesting is the fact that without taking any samples, an official of the inspection team denied the presence of any industrial effluent into the contaminated rivulet water.
 
 According to the local residents, there are five industries situated on the banks of the river. Among these industries, there are mainly two industries that discharge their biotech-chemical waste into the stream. This further mixes up with Ghaggar River.
 
 “People living in these areas are facing many challenges. The water here has been contaminated due to the pollutants discharged by the industries. Not only this, farmers are forced to use these waters in the absence of irrigation facilities,” said a local resident.
 
 “Water of Charmel has turned black. It gets hard to breathe due to the foul smell of the water. Skin diseases have become common in the nearby villages,” said president of Lok Bhalayi Sansthe (NGO) Harwinder Singh.
 
 “The industries here contaminate water by discharging waste into the water stream,” he added.
 
 “We have caught them many times while discharged contaminated water into the river,” he said.
 
  Singh, a resident of the Alamgir village, Derabassi said that many years ago even resident of village used to drink from this river.
 
 “We have stopped growing vegetables on our fields because the polluted water of the river harms crops,” Parmdeep added.
 
 Meanwhile, SDO of the Punjab pollution control board   said that a team visited the spot but they did not find any foul play of the industries into contaminated water.
 
 “I along with another official walked for 4 km around the rivulet but did not industries contaminating the river,”   said and added that issues related to foul smell will be resolved in the next 20 days.
 
 
