The latest episode of Bepannah starts with Arjun consoling Aditya.   reaches home and is left heartbroken seeing   and Pooja's intimate pictures. Noor tries to comfort Zoya and immediately Mahi starts instigating her and tells her to file a police complaint against Aditya. Zoya tells Mahi that she will file the complaint tomorrow.
 
 
 Zoya tells Noor and Mahi to leave her alone and soon Noor realizes the legal divorce papers sent by Yash were in Zoya’s room. Noor tries to hide those papers from Zoya, but she notices the divorce papers. 
  
 Zoya is in deep shock and cannot believe that the legal papers had Yash signatures on them. She starts crying and breaks down. Mahi and her mother comes to Zoya's room and notices the divorces papers.
  
 Arjun tries to make Aditya understand that may be Pooja did not cheat on him and Aditya stops him as he wants to forget all those things. 
  
 Zoya is not ready to believe that Yash cheated on her and misunderstands that Aditya is behind all these. She visits his house to confront him. In another scene, an executive from the orphanage comes and hands over some important papers from Pooja’s belongings.
  
 Aditya opens the envelope and finds the divorce papers and gets shocked to see the legal papers that have Pooja's signatures on it. Aditya shows the same papers to Arjun and tells him that Pooja cheated on him and wanted to leave her husband and best friend for the other person. He cries and starts thinking about the time he spent with Pooja and Arjun tries to calm him down. 
  
 Zoya reaches Aditya’s house and tells Aditya that she needs to talk. Zoya talks about the papers and tells him that he has sent the false divorce papers to her. Aditya's father Harshvardhan Hoods tries to call the police but Arjun stops him from doing so. Zoya keeps on blaming him for doing all of this and Aditya tries to explain that he has not sent the papers. He, later on, shows her the divorce papers that Pooja had sent him and Zoya is shocked.
 
