NEW DELHI: Moments after slitting the throat of  , the victim’s girlfriend’s father had called the PCR claiming that he had caught the youth who had been harassing his daughter. When cops reached there, they found the locals holding on to the woman’s mother carrying a bloodstained knife. A second PCR call was received a few minutes later from the hospital where doctors had declared Ankit dead.

 All this while, the woman’s mother had tried to play the victim card claiming that it was Ankit who had abducted the girl and attacked them when they confronted him. The entire incident   within a span of 35 minutes from the time when the   started  , police said.
 
 The woman told police that she left home around 7.45pm after a showdown with her mother and brother. She locked the door to ensure that her brother did not follow her.
 
 Around 7.50pm, the woman’s father reached the house. Finding his wife and son locked inside the house, he decided to look for his daughter and teach her a lesson. He picked up a stick and went looking for her in the locality. The father and his relatives met Ankit outside their colony and accused him of abducting the woman.
 
 Ankit, accompanied by two of his friends, was heading towards Tagore Garden metro station where he had asked his girlfriend to wait for him. During the argument, the woman’s father hit him several times. When his friends had tried to intervene, they too were attacked.
 
 The victim then asked one of his friends to inform her mother and sent the other one to call the woman from the metro station, possibly to resolve the issue. He also called the woman’s uncle and told him about the fight, who brought along the knife used in the crime. Ankit’s mother Kamlesh had arrived by the time and a second brawl started. Following this, the men slit Ankit’s throat.
 
 A crowd gathered around them and some   clicking photographs even as Ankit’s mother kept crying for help. After about 10 minutes, an e-rickshaw driver agreed to ferry them to a nearby hospital.
 
 “The first PCR call was received around 8.12pm where the woman’s father complained about Ankit harassing his daughter. He claimed that his family members had caught him red-handed. The police team reached at 8.17pm and started interrogating the woman’s mother who had been caught by the locals. The second call was received around 8.25pm from the hospital,” DCP (west) Vijay Kumar said.
 
 Kumar added that initially the woman tried to pass on the blame to Ankit, but later confessed that her brother and husband had committed the murder. The accused were tracked to Rohini by midnight while they were planning to flee to Saharanpur. The woman’s juvenile brother was caught from a village in UP the next morning.
 
 
