LUCKNOW: Lucknow: UK-based   (CA), at the heart of Facebook data theft controversy, had made a 50-page proposal for the   for both 2019 Lok Sabha polls and its campaign for Karanatka, Chattishgarh and Madhya Pradesh state elections later this year.
 
 The CA proposal was reportedly conceived after a detailed study of performance of both Congress and BJP in 2017 UP polls in which the saffron party-led alliance won with a landslide majority — 325 out of 403 seats.
 
  
  
 
 “This proposal sets out how CA will give the INC an equivalent level of operational and technological support in the bid to win the 2019 Lok Sabha, and the three crucial state elections which will precede,” says the first section of the proposal titled ‘Introduction’ that has 10 pages.
 
 TOI has accessed the copy of this Rs 2.5-crore proposal even as the Congress categorically denied that any financial transaction ever took place between CA and the grand old party.
 
 “Hordes of firm have approached us with proposals on campaigns in the past 15 years and continue to do that. This firm (CA) may have met someone in Congress and submitted a proposal but there was not even a single transaction between this firm and us ever,” Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told TOI.
 
 The introduction section in the proposal copy has two large photographs, each of Congress president   and Prime minister  , with two sub-sections "Reversal of fortune" in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and "Regaining the iniatiative".
 
 It dwells upon why Congress lost the plot in 2014, citing reasons such as “Indian National Congress suffered significant reputational damage. Repeated allegations of corruption, disunity and structure persists”. The INC has also been blamed for India’s growing wealth gap and economic disparity following the premise of globalisation.
 
 It also heaps praises on BJP's ability to use digital and social media components in its 2014 campaign, even saying that "final 18 months of 2014 campaign were primarily data-driven and focused on extensive and tactical digital marketing" and that continue right till 2017 UP polls.
 
 It also say: “Rise of Hindu nationalist BJP which won a historic landslide in 2014, is both a cause and consequence for INC’s demise. Narendra Modi’s populist narrative today resonates strongly with millions of disenchanted Indians. According to almost every poll, the BJP is clear favourite to win 2019 again. And UP results showed their popularity as strong as ever.”
 
 "Given that India had about 350 million smartphone users in 2015 and 195 million Facebook users by 2016, BJP's approach proved particularly effective. Their resounding victory in 2017 Uttar Pradesh state elections has also largely been due to this factor. This kind of targeted digital approach will be essential in a country where more than 700 million people are expected to communicate via smartphones by 2020," the proposal states.
 
 The proposal focused on four key components -- national situational analysis, national data infrastructure project, data driven for 2019 Lok Sabha and state assembly elections.
 
 It talked of crucial access to national voter file, party membership database to understand "where gaps exist" as well as externally identify "3rd party data" to segment and model "voter base". It sought of building an operations centre with backup-servers to access and prepare creative content, media relations, advertising, prepare rallies and events, and strategy and tactics to counter attacks on candidate and develop "negative campaigns to keep opposition on defensive.
 
 It disclosed how CA will tap a "trusted local research partner" to conduct fieldwork on doing "behavioural research" based on opinions, motivations and narratives. It talked about how to make relative credibility and emotional appeal and what it will take to change mindsets and also differentiating between local and national issues.
 
 Political analyst and rebel Congress leader Shehzad Poonawala said that the Congress must apologise for lying earlier that it never engaged with the CA.
 
 "All along they kept saying, no one approached them. The proposal document clearly said the CA made the 2019 roadmap. I was the first one to blow whistle and stand by my claims. The spokespersons must apologise now," said Poonawala.
 
 
