CHENNAI: Far from resting in peace, the dead buried at a burial ground off the   in   rest amid piles of garbage, with several conservancy vehicles belonging to the panchayat clearing trash on this piece of land.

 Located a few blocks from the busy road that has several industries around it, the land remains strewn with stinking garbage. The plot of land is also close to a canal which is polluted by dumping of sewage, posing a risk to the people in the neighbourhood. Around 11,500 people reside in Gerugambakkam.
 
 “We have tried complaining a number of times but no one listens. Trucks make use of the mud road next to the bus stand, and dump the garbage here,” said a resident, R Gopal.
 
 Located next to a circular flood drain canal that routes excess water from the Chembarambakkam reservoir to the  , the mounds of garbage also make way into the canal, polluting the water.
 
 “Years ago, the water was fit for drinking and bathing. Not only do the industries have sewer outlets connected to the canal but garbage also makes its way into it,” said another resident and activist, A Narayanan. The canal has become a sewage carrier, a breeding ground for mosquitoes and spreads a permanent stink in the areas surrounding it, much to the agony of residents. “Early in the morning, tankers discharge sewage into the canal instead of routing it to treatment plants,” he added.
 
 Residents also blame the   for lining the canals with concrete. “Because there is no way for water to seep in, it remains stagnant,” he added. He added that discharging of sewage into water bodies is a persistent issue in the city that gets exacerbated by the laxity and apathy of officials, who refuse to take any action.
 
 Panchayat officials denied any knowledge of panchayat vehicles dumping garbage on the burial ground or private tankers letting out sewage into the canal.
 
 “We have a designated place for dumping garbage near Adhanur in the Kundarthur block. All the garbage gets dumped there. If vehicles are discharging sewage into the canal, I am not aware of it. We will look into it,” said a staffer at the Gerugambakkam panchayat office.
 
 
