AHMEDABAD:   in Ahmedabad, Gandhinagar and Surat may have to cough up more as   (TPL) has sought permission to  . The company claims that it needs higher rates to recover its past under-recoveries. 

 The company has not actually demanded a hike in base tariffs — these are revised annually to cover future costs — it has instead proposed a rise in the form of regulatory charge from April 1, 2018.
 
 TPL has sought an increase of 25 paise per unit for Ahmedabad area which includes Gandhinagar. For Surat, the regulatory charge proposed to be levied is 20 paise. The private sector company has filed its petitions with Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (GERC) for determination of tariff for 2018-19.
 
 However, the final quantum of the hike to be passed on to the consumers will be decided by the state power regulatory body, which has sought suggestions and objections from all stakeholders by February 9.
 
 In its tariff petitions, Torren Power has stated that its past under recoveries, including carrying cost, works out to be Rs 390.83 crore for Ahmedabad, and Rs 67.79 crore for Surat supply area. The proposed increase, if approved, will translate into an estimated burden of Rs 485.62 crore on the consumers. The company has also submitted that, “this regulatory charge will be applicable beyond 2018-19 till such time that the said cumulative gap of Rs. 390.83 crore (for Ahmedabad supply area) is fully recovered and would be discontinued upon completion of recovery of cumulative gap.” Torrent Power has stated in its petitions that it had last increased tariffs in the year 2015-16.
 
 When contacted, company officials further explained that, in 2017, TPL was allowed to levy regulatory charge of 18 paise in Ahmedabad and 17 paise in Surat. However, this was discontinued by GERC in June last year. “This year the proposed regulatory levy is 25 paise for Ahmedabad and 20 paise for Surat. So, the effective increase will not be much,” officials of the company said. 
 
 On the other hand, Gujarat government-run four power distribution companies under Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) have requested extension till January 15, to file their tariff determination petitions.
 
 
