KOZHIKODE: Two CPM workers were taken into custody on Sunday, in connection with the murder of Youth Congress local leader S P Shuhaib at Edayannur near Mattannur in the district on February 12.   have identified them as Akash Thillankery and Rijin Raj. The police said the duo was also named accused in the murder of RSS worker M Vineesh at Thillankery in September 2016.

 Earlier reports said that the two came to surrender in Maloor police station accompanied by a few local CPM leaders. Denying this the district police chief G Siva Vikram said they were caught following an intensive combing operation, and their role in the murder would come to the fore only after a detailed interrogation. “We expect some breakthrough in this case very soon and the searches are going on to trace others involved in the murder,” he said.
 
 Though it is not clear if the two persons in police custody have any direct involvement in the murder, the police feel that they have a major role in it, and it is possible that they only helped the assailants to escape from the scene and stay in some secret hideouts. The possibility of at least one of them having a direct role in the murder could not be ruled out, said sources in the police. The police have also taken into custody a few others and they are also being interrogated, but refused to divulge any details.
 
 Meanwhile, within hours after the duo was taken into custody, the social media was flooded with the photographs of the two with senior party leaders including P Jayarajan and Pinarayi Vijayan.
 
 The arrests were made amid the Congress decision to strengthen the campaign and senior party leader   is going to launch a 48-hour agitation. So the party is also of the feeling that the two in custody could be ‘proxy accused’ to save the real killers. “I don’t think the ones in police custody are the real accused but this has shattered the claim made by the CPM that the party had no role in the murder of Shuhaib,” said Sudhakaran.
 
 DCC president Satheesan Pacheni also said that the party would not stop the campaign till the real killers are booked. 
 
 
