Titagarh: It was an operation that few in the Navy had ever witnessed, let alone others who had gathered on the banks of the Hooghly at Titagarh in North 24 Parganas on Thursday afternoon. The fuel barge with a displacement of nearly 2,000 tonnes stood on the banks, parallel to the river, propped up by metal stilts and reinforced wooden planks sloping down to the water’s edge. Workmen were busy applying grease to the wooden planks to reduce friction. Others placed chunks of ice on top of the grease to prevent it from melting and dripping off due to the afternoon heat.

 As hundreds of people watched, the vessel finally started its slide towards the water and then landed in the river with a huge splash, straightening itself within minutes as the bore tide pushed it further northward. A waiting tug rushed in to take control.
 
 “I have been present during several ship launches but this is the first time I saw a ship being launched on its side. This is a remarkable feat. This is probably the first naval vessel to be launched on its side,” Vice Admiral M S Pawar, chief of staff, Eastern Naval Command, said.
 
 Thursday was a red-letter day, not only for the Navy and Titagarh Wagons Ltd that launched the 1,000-tonne fuel barge as a supply ship for the aircraft carrier INS Vikramaditya in record time, but also for the state of West Bengal. At a time when private shipyards across the country aren’t doing too well, this was the first ship to be launched from a private shipyard in the state. Rear Admiral (retd) A K Verma, former chairman-cum-managing director, Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineers (GRSE) Ltd, acknowledged the fact.
 
 “Those who criticize the work culture in West Bengal should note how this ship was launched in less than a year’s time. Titagarh Wagons Ltd has been a regular supplier to the defence forces and this is a new venture. We are also building another fuel barge for the Navy and two coastal research vessels for the National Institute of Ocean Technology,” J P Chowdhary, chairman, Titagarh Wagons Ltd, said.
 
 According to Vice Admiral Pawar, the event is a giant stride for Kolkata and private shipyards in India. “The ship has been launched 10 days ahead of schedule. This shows the capability of this shipyard. The Navy already has plans to get warships worth Rs 35,000 crore built,” he said.
 
 
