Madurai: Three persons including 2 polytechnic college students were killed in a road accident at Aruppukkottai in Virudhunagar district. The accident involving a private route bus and a tractor left as many as 36 persons injured. The deceased were identified as U Mariswaran, 19, his college mate S Arunkumar, 19, and R Selvam, 58. Police said that both the teenagers were studying in a private polytechnic college, whereas Selvam was a painter by profession. All the injured persons were rushed to nearby hospitals. Police said that the private route bus which started at 8 am from Virudhunagar bound to Vilathikulam in Tuticorin district collided with a tractor at Puliankulam in Aruppukkottai. Around 20 farm workers were on the trailer attached to the tractor and more than 50 passengers were travelling in the bus. Police said the front wheels of the bus got detached in the impact. As a result, the vehicle overturned resulting in injuring the passengers. The front portion of the tractor suffered heavy damage. On being alerted, Aruppukkottai town police rushed to the spot and entered into rescue measures. While the grievously hurt were referred to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai city after first aid in a nearby hospital, those with minor injuries were treated locally. The bodies were also shifted to Aruppukkottai hospital, where the postmortem was carried out. The vehicles were shifted off the road to enable the traffic movement, which was hit for around two hours due to the accident. Meanwhile, in two separate road accidents in Madurai, a two-year-old baby and 50-year-old pillion rider woman were killed. Kadupatti police said that P Kugan, 2, from Kadupatti near Sholavandan was hit by a private school van when he was playing in front of his house on Wednesday. Based on a complaint a case was registered against the van driver Sampath. K Ramuthai, 50, from Kottamedu near Alanganallur was killed when the two-wheeler on which she was pillion riding, hit a truck on Wednesday morning. The accident took place in Koodalnagar bridge and the driver identified as K Thangavel, 48, was booked.