MADURAI: Following a recent order of the  , the first batch of girls from the 89 staying at the controversial Mose Ministries children home in   expressed their wish about their future to a former high court judge in Madurai on Wednesday.

 A team led by district social welfare officer (DSWO) took the 43 major girls to the mediation centre at the Madurai bench of Madras high court in Madurai by a TNSTC ( ) bus on Wednesday morning, said a source.
 
 Trichy district collector K Rajamani confirmed that the girls attended the session where they were interviewed. “The first batch of girls went for the interview today (Wednesday). The second batch will go tomorrow (Thursday),” collector Rajamani told TOI on Wednesday evening. Sources said the interview went on till evening after which they returned by bus to Trichy. 
 
 Wednesday’s visit by the girls to the mediation centre was necessitated by a Supreme Court order dated February 16. The bench comprising justices S A Bobde and L Nageswara Rao asked the judge   to interview the major girls. The court passed the order based on the special leave petition filed by a representative of   of Mose Ministries’ home. 
 
 The court found it necessary to interview them so that they can reveal their future plans. It may be pointed out that the girls had protested the move by the Trichy district administration and the district social welfare department to shift them to other homes as per an order of the Madurai bench of Madras high court on January 8.
 
 The home at   in Trichy has been embroiled in controversy from 2015 after the child welfare committee (CWC), Trichy brought to light the illegal confinement of the girls in the unauthorised home for two decades after they were reportedly saved from the female infanticide in Usilampatti area in Madurai. CBI, which took up the case had even arrested the founder pastor of the home, A Gideon Jacob, 63, in October 2017. The report will be submitted by the judge to the Supreme Court in six weeks. 
 
 
