CHENNAI: Shampoo and hydrogen energy, kattumaram and algae, screen printing and communities in  . For C V   (1930-1995), all the above mentioned are interconnected. Apparently, this chemical engineer always believed that the interconnection (between food and energy) was more intricate than it is popularly understood. Unfortunately, there are distortions in this connection based on basic concepts and practices in science. "Seshadri made a considerable effort to correct this set of distortion and introduced a new equivalence between food and energy," said  , who worked as a research scholar under Seshadri's guidance during 1983-89, at a conference in memory of CV Seshadri at   on Thursday. 

 For Seshadri, food stood not just for the edible substance, it included nourishment as well as nurture. However, a generation after he launched the endeavor, the challenge remains as formidable as before. "It is worth our effort to take up the challenge and re-position food and nurture it as the core of the global system of values," said  , who currently focuses on learning technology for areas that have limited access to grid power or data connectivity.
 
 The three-day seminar on "Dialogues at the science-society interface" will discuss the many roles played by   in his life as a scientist-activist. M Anandakrishnan, an educationist and former vice chancellor of Anna University, spoke of the days when he and Seshadri were colleagues at   in the mid-1960s. "Seshadri's goal has always been towards affordable technologies, oriented towards the benefit of common man. He was persuaded by M V Murugappan to be the founder director of the   (MCRC). Established in 1977, the voluntary organization in   later engaged in research to take scientific developments to rural mass under Seshadri," he said.
 
 Anandakrishnan said it was Seshadri who developed Gandhian ideas on organic farming and self-sufficiency at MCRC. 
 
 "He contributed to the development of spirulina algae, a healthy supplement to the noon meal programme of the government," he added.
 
 
