CHANDIGARH: A female leopard was shot dead in the wee hours by poachers using a medium-calibre rifle just a 100 m away from houses of village Shahpur in Hoshiarpur district.

 Deaths of leopards have been a result of clutch-wire traps or mobs of villagers lynching big cats but gunshot deaths have not been recorded in contemporary history. The Forests & Wildlife Preservation department handed over the case to the police. “The claws, canines and pelt of the  . That rules out as a motive, poaching for trade in wildlife parts. The leopard is a Schedule I animal,”   (Wildlife), Hoshiarpur, Gursharan Singh, told TOI.
 
 “We have taken over the investigations and an   has been lodged at the Hariana police station under Sections 9, 39 and 51 of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. I myself went to the spot for assessment on Thursday afternoon,” Hoshiarpur SSP   told TOI. The police have requisitioned local tower dump data to trace mobile phone activity that night along with the list of rifle arms licence holders.
 
 According to the report of the post-mortem conducted by veterinarians Dr Avtar Singh, Dr Harminderpal Singh and Dr S Kumar, the death occurred at “4 am on Tuesday”. The “entrance of the (bullet) was from the left abdominal side, which was 0.27 inches in diameter. The exit was on the right abdominal side (0.64 inches in diameter)....the leopard died due to gunshot wound leading to haemorrhage, shock,” the report stated.
 
 Hoshiarpur honorary wildlife warden Kanwar Chaudhary, who was present during the post-mortem and studied the site of the poaching, told TOI: “The poachers were led to a hideout by a local from where they fired with a scope-mounted rifle. They either killed the leopard on the mistaken assumption that it was a wild boar/sambar or they killed it at the behest of villagers fearful of their livestock. We have reports of poachers frequenting this village and its jungles/fields for night hunting.”
 
 
 
 Having observed the wound hole in the leopard at the time of post-mortem, Kanwar Chaudhary opined the bullet was fired from .30 calibre weapon and not a .22 long-range rifle as claimed by wildlife officers. Veteran hunter of man-eating leopards/tigers and ballistics expert on sporting firearms, Parwanoo-based, Ashish Dasgupta, agreed with Chaudhary’s assessment. “The entrance wound size (0.27 inch diameter) suggests the leopard was shot by a rifle slug of .30 calibre, ie, by a 30.06 or .315 bore rifle. The bullet did not ‘mushroom’ as it did not encounter any bones being a stomach shot. However, the bullet having encountered flesh resistance, went off its axis and created a ‘key hole’ effect on the right side which is why the exit hole is more than twice the size of the entrance hole (0.64 inch diameter),” Dasgupta told TOI.
 
 
