KOLKATA: Traffic movement along VIP Road was hit after the construction work of Golaghata  , near the   flyover, developed cracks on the road surface. Cops have suspended vehicular movement along one of the three lanes of the city-bound flank to avoid an accident.

 Officers of   said the cracks were spotted on Monday afternoon. By late evening, the cracks grew larger, forcing the cops to shut a portion of the road for traffic, fearing a cave-in. “The cracks have developed on the road above the place where the construction of a subway is under way. We immediately informed the PWD authorities, who came for an inspection and advised us to shut traffic along the portion as they have started with the repair work,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate.
 
 As a precautionary move, the commissionerate has banned the movement of trucks and other heavy goods vehicles between Kaikhali and Ultadanga using the VIP Road and diverted the city-bound vehicles to Rajarhat Expressway. “We have been asking car owners to use Rajarhat Expressway instead of VIP Road at least during the morning peak hours till the repair works are complete. This would ease the pressure on VIP Road and also keep the traffic snarls under control,” added the officer, after a visit to the stretch on Tuesday afternoon along with Bidhannagar MLA Sujit  .
 
 On Tuesday morning, office goers had a harrowing time stuck in serpentine snarls from beyond   as vehicles moved in a single lane while passing by the affected portion of the road. “It took me nearly 20 m inutes to cross the 1.5km stretch between Bangur Avenue and the road approaching the flyover. On other days, it takes me less than four minutes to cross the stretch,” said  , a Dum Dum resident.
 
  
  
 PWD officials, who started the repair work from Tuesday morning, said it would take them at least a week to fix the portion. “We’ll mend the cracks and strengthen the interior of the subway to ensure such fissures don’t develop in the future,” said a PWD official. PWD workers were spotted setting up iron beams in the interior portion of the subway to avoid a cave-in.
 
 Work on the   subway, which is six metre below the ground and has a width of six metre, started in November last year. As a result, a 500m stretch of a service lane is closed to traffic and vehicles plying on the service lanes on both flanks are being diverted through the main arms of VIP Road, increasing the pressure of vehicles on the road. Now, with another lane of the road being closed to traffic, vehicular movement took a major toll for most part of Tuesday.
 
