Chandigarh: Spotting lacunae in the investigation carried out by Panchkula police into alleged leak of the written examination conducted by Haryana Public Service Commission (HPSC) for selection of assistant professors, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the assistant commissioner of police (crime), Panchkula to file an affidavit on the status of investigation.

 HC passed these orders after observing that the investigation is being monitored by Panchkula ACP (crime), but there was nothing on the investigation file to show that he had ever gone through the developments in the probe and advised the investigating officer to take any further steps. Apparently, the investigation is not being monitored by him, observed the court, asking the state to file affidavit of the ACP about the status of the investigation.
 
 HC was also of the view that the case related to leakage of examination was registered on September 12, 2017, but the phone used by accused Sandeep has not been recovered till date. “Investigation in the case is still on though more than six months have passed. Mobile phone has been recovered from Arvind, the person to whom Sandeep had sent the question paper, only on March 30, and sent to the Cyber Cell on April 2. The report is still awaited,” the court remarked.
 
 A division bench headed by Justice Rajesh Bindal passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by some candidates of the Hindi assistant professor posts questioning the investigation carried by the state police in the case related to leakage of examination.
 
 As per the facts of the case a candidate was caught in examination hall with a mobile phone on February 26, 2017. The phone had a photo of the question paper in a WhatsApp chat.
 
 He was sitting in the examination center in Doon Public School, Panchkula. The matter was reported by the principal of the school to the HPSC and also to the in charge of the Sector 21 police post in Panchkula.
 
 The principal of the school also handed over the mobile phone used for cheating containing the evidence message, to the police. Despite that, the matter was closed by head constable Neeraj Kumar, who was deployed at police post in Sector 21. He had recorded that the candidature of the person, from whose possession mobile phone was recovered, had been cancelled by HPSC, and no cognizable offence was made out.
 
 However, HPSC stated that there was no communication by HPSC to the constable regarding cancellation of candidature of Sandeep Kumar. Neeraj further recorded that the telephone did not contain any message on WhatsApp regarding the question paper.
 
 On that HC observed how could it happen, considering the fact that mobile phone recovered from the candidate, containing the question paper on a WhatsApp message, was handed over by the principal of the school to the in charge of the Sector 21 police post.
 
 HC also noticed that the head constable had even returned the telephone recovered from Sandeep after recording the DDR without even further investigation, whether it was a case of paper leakage or otherwise. The only action taken by the department against him was to censure him that too after the writ petition was filed in the court.
 
 Awarding punishment of censure, apparently, the competent authority also did not consider the fact that the matter was serious, HC observed.
 
 In February 2016, HPSC had advertised for selection of 112 posts of assistant professors (college cadre) in Hindi subject and final selection list was declared on August 9.
 
 
