GAYA: Claiming to be a Buddha follower, chief minister  , on Sunday said that his government was following the principles of ‘Madhyam Marg’ or middle path as taught by Lord Buddha. Nitish said this while addressing a gathering in Kalchakra Maidan Bodh   to mark the culmination of the three-day long sermon by Buddhist spiritual leader Dalai   and the release of a book titled ‘Science and Philosophy in the Indian Buddhist Classic’.

 As per the findings of researcher the late PC Roy, Buddha himself got the ‘Madhyam Marg’ concept second hand through a folk song of local women near Dhungeshwari village on the outskirts of modern day Gaya town. The village women, as per the researcher, sang a song that meant 'do not pull the   strings so much that it gets snapped, do not loosen it too much either, as acutely loose strings do not produce any music'.
 
 Based on Buddha’s teachings and written under Dalai Lama’s personal supervision, the 552 pages hard cover edition of 'Science and Philosophy in the Indian Buddhist Classics’have been edited by Dalai Lama’s associates Thupten Jinpa and Ian Coghlan.
 
 In a review, well known literateur  , author of ‘Emotional Intelligence’, called the book, “A rare gift of wisdom from the ancient world to the modern readers in which the editors have curated a rich treasure of the philosophy and maps of the mind that have their origins in the early centuries of Indian thought.”
 
 The CM also said that social reforms were part of governance as improvement in the quality of life of the people was the ultimate objective and this objective cannot be achieved without recourse to end social practices that inhibit positive development. In this context, the CM referred to his initiative to enforce prohibition in the state and further to end intoxication per se. Prohibition, it may be recalled, was earlier endorsed by the Buddhist spiritual leader. The CM also referred his efforts to eradicate social menace like dowry and child marriage.
 
 Referring to the middle path principle, the CM said, “The state government cares for life in all its forms and all life forms including plants and animals figure high on his development agenda.” The CM also referred to his agenda on environment protection.
 
 Nitish, besides seeking the blessings of Dalai Lama also referred to his (CM's) previous interactions with the spiritual leader and Kalchakra' 2017. “Bihar is blessed to have Bodh Gaya, the seat of Buddha's enlightenment,” said the CM.
 
 Reciprocating the CM, the Buddhist spiritual leader lauded his efforts and wished him well. During his brief visit, the CM also inaugurated the Rs 3.94 crore outer railing of world famous Mahabodhi Temple. The railing cost has been donated by a Thai devotee of Lord Buddha.
 
 
