KHARGONE: Sangeet Natak Akademi award winner folk singer   stole the show on concluding of   with his Kabir bhajans in traditional Malwi folk style on Tuesday.

 Tipanya along with a group of tambura, khartal, manjira, dholak, harmonium, timki, and violin players mesmerised the audience at Maheshwar on the banks of the holy Narmada river in Khargone. Winners of the competitions organised during the   was also give prizes on the occasion.
 
 Being organised annually since 1994, Nimar Mahotsav- an extravaganza of music, dance, drama, boating and canoeing- started this year on January 28 under the aegis of Narmada Seva Mission and District Tourism Promotion Council.
 
 On Sunday, one kilometre marathon, rangoli, mehandi, painting and poster competitions on the themes, folk culture, environment, water conservation, save girl child were organised on the premises of Ahilyeshwar temple. Nimari folk dancer Animesh Upadhyay of Gangaur Lok Kala Kendra, Khandwa, performed Rathwa tribal dance at Ahilya ghat on the occasion. The night also saw a divine ballet on Lord Krishna by Kathak dancer Yasmin Singh and her co-artistes.
 
 On Monday, a boat race competition at Satmatra was organised with four participating teams from Maheshwar and Nawratodi. The night witnessed colourful cultural programmes by tribal students and creations of poets Surendra Sharma, Kunwar Bechain Sarvesh Asthana, Sarita Sharma, Mukesh Molva, Sumit Mishra and Shyamsundar Palod
 
 Speaking about the use of his wife’s name in his poems, Surendra told reporters, “I use my wife in poetry to create comedy not to insult her or any women that’s why I am quite popular among women also. I don’t want to join politics. I believe I am the king of my profession.”
 
 The event in-charge Mandaleshwar SDM Avi Prasad said that the festival was to continue till January 29 but it was rescheduled and extended till Tuesday night.
 
 Sneha Sen won the rangoli competition in the under-16 age category, while Rima Palanpure was victorious in the open age group. In mehendi competition, Charu Sharma and Keerti Joshi were the winners in under-16 and open age category respectively. Palak Upadhyay and Rajpal Singh were winners of poster competition. In boat decoration, Jitendra Kewat was adjudged winner and Krishna Kewat team won the race.
 
 MLA Rajkumar Mev, district collector Ashok Verma and local dignitaries attended the function.
 
 
