GURUGRAM: The   RWA is once again at loggerheads with the builder with the latest issue being the latter refusing to give an electric connection to the residents for   celebrations. 

 Residents claimed that they had informed the management a day in advance that they would need a connection for the celebrations to be held on January 26. “Our RWA president Praveen Yadav had requested the Chandan Lakhanpal, the general manager of Ardee City, to give us a connection for a few hours for the event that was planned but he refused. Hoping that the management would change their mind and cooperate with us on the day, around 500 residents gathered at the Games Park to hoist the national flag. We had also planned cultural programmes but our excitement was dampened as the management didn’t support us. This behaviour is anti-national,” said Chaitali, a resident. 
 
 Another resident rued that the management is leaving no stone unturned to harass them. “Due to the lack of power supply, the programme got delayed by one and a half hour. Finally a resident shared her personal electricity connection and only then we could play the music and the children could perform. Lakhanpal had instructed his staff to deny any connection for the celebrations,” the resident said. 
 
 The residents said that they had written to the deputy commissioner informing him about the ill attitude of the management. 
 
 This isn’t the first time that the residents and the management are against each other. Earlier too they had come face to face regarding the hike in   charge as the residents denied paying it over ‘poor maintenance’. 
 
 “Our maintenance fee was increased from Rs 365/month to Rs 1,600/month in August 2013. Residents and the management had agreed that the charge would be paid for six months to see if any improvement was taking place. We paid the hiked charge for a year, but nothing changed. So we stopped paying,” said Praveen Yadav, president, Ardee City RWA. 
 
 When TOI contacted Chandan Lakhanpal, he neither confirmed nor denied the incident. “I have no version on this,” Lakhanpal said curtly. 
 
 
