
  Like attending classes and indulging in adda, games and   are also an inseparable part of college life. Despite the fact that playing grounds are disappearing from college campuses, we found a huge number of students not only interested in sports, but taking active participation in it. 
 
  So obviously, we came across students who enjoy stardom in college for being a sports star. While   and   are still the most popular sports, there are also students who are into tennis and badminton. They said besides enjoying special status and having a big fan following in college, taking active participation in sports help them stay fit and be in shape. It helps me to stay motivated,” said Sulagna Roy, a   player from Techno India University. Let’s see what these budding sports stars are up to...
 
  
 
  
 
 
  In the villages of Murshidabad, Wasim did not have a proper cricket coaching centre, but that did not stop him from trying to achieve his dream. When he was 15, he played for his school team and proved his talent. After passing his board exams, he decided to come to Kolkata so that he could get proper cricket coaching. While practising at Calcutta Cricket Academy, the batsman-wicketkeeper got noticed and started receiving many offers. “I presently play for High Court Club, which is a second division club, and practice at Videocon ground,” he said. 
 
  Being a star batsman in the university team, he has a huge number of female fans. “I like the special attention I get, but at the same time, I keep my whole focus on my game and studies,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  Sulagna started playing badminton when she was seven. Being the daughter of a badminton-enthusiast father, she grew up seeing her family members playing on their lawn. Besides the fact that they had a competition-sized badminton court at home, all of her uncles and cousins were really good at the sport. “So, until last year, I never felt the need of an coaching institute because my father taught me a lot,” she said. However, now, she has enrolled into a badminton training institute in the city to hone her skills. 
 
 
  After she won a couple of inter-college tournaments, she got noticed by the students and teachers. Not just because she is a good player, but because she is a good athlete without having much formal training.
 
 
 
  
 
 
  The 2002 World Cup changed Partha’s life. Watching the players dribble the ball on the ground and the whole world cheering for them, promted him to adopt football as his life’s passion. Soon he joined the para football club and started playing really well. In 2007 he got selected for the district team but could not play due to a height disadvantage. In 2011 he played for Under-17 East Bengal club. “I have been the captain of my university football team for three straight years and have won a number of tournaments,” he said. 
 
 Besides having a huge number of followers, he also has some really good friends. Being a footballer at heart, he often misses classes. But his ever-supportive friends get him class notes and other important documents.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  Like many other children, Shreya too, was enrolled at painting and singing classes in her childhood. But, after a couple of classes, she would lose interest and not return. So, at her uncle’s suggestion, she was introduced to tennis at the age of seven. The connection was instant. “As time passed, I got involved inrowing, basketball and swimming. Even though I have competed at the national level in each of them, tennis has always been my first love,” she said. However, she does not want to take up tennis professionally. 
 
 
  For her involvement in sports, Shreya is one of the most popular students in the college. Be it the teachers or the students, everyone extends a helping hand when it comes to her chosen sports.
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  Bapi did not like sports during his younger days. Hailing from a poor background, he was more focused on earning money. But during his school days, he was bitten by the football bug. It was the hostel warden who identified Bapi’s talent and forced him to practice every day. By the time Bapi joined Jadavpur University, he had completed a referee course and along with playing for different clubs, he also refereed some matches. 
 
  Status in college: At JU, football and Bapi is almost synonymous. “I like that I am popular and students like me because I’m into football. But my crush has never come to see me play. That is my only regret,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Kaustav’s fate was perhaps decided even before he could talk. Being born into a family filled with sportsmen prompted him to take up cricket as one of his prime passions in life. His grandfather, Tejesh Kumar Shome, was known as Bagha Shome within Bengal’s football fraternity and his father is the former Ranji player, Gautam Shome. Both influenced Kaustav’s life in many ways. He started playing cricket when he was just 10 years old. Along with playing for his college team, Kaustav has played for a number of first division clubs in Kolkata. 
 
 
 Being a star batsman in college makes him a rockstar in the eyes of his peers. “My college is very strict about attendance and my practice time often clashes with my classes. But my HOD helps me a lot and allows me to play,” said Kaustav.
 
 
 
 
