LUDHIANA: The department of paediatrics along with the department of Immuno Haemotology and blood transfusion observed ‘27th International Thalassemia Day’ by organizing annual medicos   on Tuesday. More than 200 units of blood were collected during the camp.

 
 Dr Amarjit Kaur (professor and head of transfusion medicine) extended a warm welcome to the dignitaries present on the occasion including chief guest Sunila Gupta, member,   and Hospital (DMCH) managing society. In her message, Kaur said DMCH, under the guidance of secretary Prem Kumar Gupta has made a tremendous progress in the quality care of children suffering from ‘thalassemia’. Also present on the occasion were principal Dr  , medical superintendents Dr Sandeep Sharma, assistant dean academics Dr Sandeep Kaushal and Dr Puneet Aulakh Pooni (professor and head of pediatrics).
 
 The faculty members who donated blood on the occasion include principal Sandeep Puri, medical supritendent Ashwani Chaudhary, Suman Puri, Deepak Bhat, Gurdeep Singh Dhooria, Ashvind Bawa among others.
 
 Principal Puri also donated blood 94th time and all his family members including his spouse Suman Puri and two daughters also donated blood.
 
 Dr   (assistant professor pediatrics and in-charge, thalassemia unit) said the theme for ‘International Thalassemia Day’ this year is Thalassemia Past, Present and Future: Country Practices, Progress and Growing Recognition of Patient’s Rights. The thalassemia unit of DMCH is catering to 270 children at the most affordable and subsidized costs. The new changes, recently introduced by DMCH, for the screening of blood-related diseases are NAT testing, extended phenotype test, mutation analysis and antenatal genetic testing for beta thalassemia.
 
 The students of College of Nursing highlighted various issues pertaining to the treatment and medical care of affected children. NGOs Zindagi Live,   and Punjab Thalassemic’s Welfare Society and regular blood donors were felicitated on the occasion.
 
