LUCKNOW: A day after losing the two crucial by-elections in   and Phulpur, Uttar Pradesh chief minister   on Thursday called the result “unprecedented” and said “both workers and party supporters got complacent as it was a ‘Yogi seat”.

 
 Speaking on the electoral drubbing, at a Town Hall organised by The   here on Thursday, Yogi said: “I was five-time MP from Gorakhpur and before me, my guruji ( ) was the MP for four terms. Nobody thought we would lose this seat, and therefore, didn’t put in the required effort.”
 
  lost bypolls in Gorakhpur and Phulpur, which were vacated by the CM and deputy chief minister  , respectively. The results were declared on Wednesday.
 
 Yogi questioned the Opposition for its silence on EVMs. “As soon as voting started on Sunday, SP and BSP accused BJP of tampering with EVMs. They should have known that BJP would not misuse power and would work ethically. I would like to ask BSP and SP to explain this result. Why are they silent now?” the CM asked.
 
 Elaborating on the reasons for the BJP’s “unprecedented loss” in the two “prestigious and safe” seats, Yogi said that over-confidence had done the party in.
 
 “Whenever I went to any poll rally, I was told that we are winning. I would tell them that every election should be taken seriously and we should not be complacent. However, this is not the first time that this has happened,” said Yogi.
 
 “We failed to read the SP-BSP alliance and didn’t get into the kind of micromanagement that was needed,” he said.
 
 Over-confidence, according to Yogi, was not just a problem with BJP workers but was seen among supporters, who didn’t turn up to vote. “People felt that this is Yogiji’s seat and BJP can never lose here,” he said.
 
 “Lots of things happen when people are over-confident of a win. Party workers get careless. And, when voters become complacent, voter turn-out dips. BJP lost by 20,000-21,000 votes. If voter turnout was even 4% higher, the result would have been different,” said Yogi.
 
 “The turnout in the city was 31%-33% even though I appealed to people to go out and vote in large numbers. If the voting percentage touched 40%-50% in the city, BJP would have got a lead.”
 
