Chennai: Relegation-threatened   (CCFC), who finished their   engagements with a stunning win over   last Friday, might have struggled as a team but players like   and   have caught the attention of other clubs with their individual skills. Such has been their performance that title contenders Minerva wanted to sign midfielders Soosairaj,   and striker Joachim on loan for their last match against Churchill Brothers on Thursday.

 CCFC, though, rejected Minerva’s offer. “Minerva owner Ranjit Bajaj approached CCFC owner Rohit Ramesh after the match. He persuaded Rohit to release at least Soosairaj if not the others for the match. But Rohit said it was unethical. Also we wanted the player for Super Cup. So we rejected their offer,” a source told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Minerva are at the top of I-League table with 32 points from 17 matches and face a must-win situation against Churchill to win the league. Churchill, on the other hand, also need a win to beat the drop. It was learnt that Soosairaj, who has been a livewire in the midfield with three goals and four assists to his name, might have replaced their young midfielder Bali Gagandeep, who suffered a nose fracture last week.
 
 CCFC release Poljanec: CCFC, meanwhile, parted ways with Uros Poljanec ahead of the Super Cup. The Slovenian goalkeeper has been ruled out of action for almost a month with a grade two ACL injury on his right knee. “There was no point in persisting with him. He wouldn’t have played in Super Cup, so we released him,” the source said.
 
 CCFC to have a review of season’s performance: It was also learnt that the CCFC management will review the team’s performance after they fared poorly in the I-League. The V Soundararajan-side finished with 19 points from 18 matches and could be relegated if Churchill win their last match. “There were some issues within the side. It came to our understanding that Soundararajan lost the confidence of senior players and foreigners towards the end of the league. No one listened to his strategy. We also had to bring in Singapore-based technical consultant Akbar for the last four matches to help out the coach,” the source revealed.
 
 
