NAGPUR: In what can be termed as a nexus between the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials and restaurants owners, a rooftop restaurant has been opened in a 40-year-old building at Sadar despite complaints. Similar inaction had led to death of 15 persons in a fire at a rooftop restaurant in Mumbai in December last year.

  activist TH Naidu told TOI that the rooftop restaurant is on a G+1 floor commercial building owned by   on Mount Road Extension adjacent to Smruti Cinema Theatre. “There is another restaurant on the first floor of the same building. Documents obtained by me under RTI Act from the NMC and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) show that the two restaurants were opened without permissions. There is no NOC from fire and emergency services department and the occupancy certificates too have not been obtained,” he said.
 
 Naidu added that no fire prevention and safety equipment have been installed. “The first floor restaurant is totally packed. Permanent construction has been done for the rooftop restaurant which is not permissible. The only access to both the restaurants is very narrow,” he said.
 
 Naidu also said NMC fire and emergency services department and   did not take any action on his complaints lodged in January 2017 when the construction of the rooftop restaurant was going on. “The officials didn’t even bother to do inspection. Restaurant on the first floor is older than the rooftop one. I approached the NMC officials again after Kamala Mills fire incident but to no avail,” he said.
 
 Fire department officials said action would be taken against the two restaurants. “Action was delayed as there is only one officer for inspecting and taking action against unauthorized restaurants or buildings. Three rooftops restaurants were closed down after our warning,” an official said.
 
 Over 50 restaurants are functioning on rooftop and in residential buildings without permissions and fire safety equipment. On February 11, TOI had reported about three rooftop restaurants at   and Abhyankar Nagar. One restaurant at   has been shut but the other two are still open.
 
 Following TOI’s report, NMC Dharampeth Zone had served notice under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act to a rooftop restaurant on   building at Zenda Chowk, Dharampeth, a couple of days ago.
 
 Naidu said NMC officials and fire department issue only notices but don’t act. “All officials are hand in gloves with restaurant owners,” he said.
 
 
