Chandigarh: A sweetly-timed cover drive pierced the mid-off and cover fielder with precision and thudded into the boundary ropes. The batsman,   was in his elements during a practice game at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium in Mohali. The Jalandhar lad is making a comeback into competitive cricket after a career threatening back injury.

 At the crease, though, it didn’t seem he was out of the sport for 8 months. His Punjab teammates duly applauded his batting display. One of the coaching staff quipped, “aath mahine ka bhadas nikal raha hai (The frustration of missing out for eight months is now showing in his game).”
 
 Mandeep is one of Punjab’s frontline batters in the upcoming Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy — India’s premier domestic T-20 tournament.
 
 After his whirlwind innings, Punjab coach Ajay Ratra patted Mandeep on the back. Later Ratra told TOI, “Mandeep will be a key figure for us if we want to win the tournament.”
 
 “He is in good shape and is hitting the ball nicely. I am confident that he will show his flair during the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy,” he added.
 
 Besides the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, Punjab’s upcoming domestic fixtures also include the Vijay Hazare Trophy (national 50-over championship). Mandeep’s addition will surely give Punjab an impetus.
 
 Career-threatening injury
 
 A disc prolapse in the lower back during the 2017 Indian Premier League ( ) devastated Mandeep.
 
 The 26-year-old had to miss out a major part of the IPL due to the injury. A spine surgery was required and he went to London for that.
 
 “I had pain in my lower back for nearly a year, leading up to the 2017 IPL. I used to take pain killers. The pain became unbearable during the last phase of IPL. I met a physio in Bengaluru and he opined that the condition had worsened and I needed to get an MRI done.
 
 “I consulted other physiotherapists at the National Cricket Academy (NCA). I wanted to avoid surgery as I was keen on playing more. But the doctors suggested me that for a long career I have to go undergo a surgery, and by God’s grace everything went well,” said Mandeep. “The last eight months have been really testing for me and it is surely the lowest phase of my career,” he added.
 
 Comeback beckons
 
 At the Punjab senior team camp, Mandeep was seen timing the ball nicely. One could see the fire in his eyes and the burning desire to regain his form and fitness.
 
 “Dealing with injuries is tough, but during this period (of 8 months) where I was lying low I realised the importance the sport has in my life. And, trust me I don’t know anything else other than cricket,” Mandeep said.
 
 “It is not at all easy to make a comeback after suffering so many injuries. The last year was very difficult for me,” he added.
 
 “I am batting after a gap of eight months. Its feels really good.”
 
 Mandeep will be leading the Punjab batting unit during the T20 championship. Punjab plays its first league match on January 9.
 
 Hungry for more
 
 Mandeep has targeted the upcoming domestic tournaments to make his way into the national team once again. “I am taking one tournament at a time. I don’t want to rush. I had played inter-district tournament as well and scored some useful runs,” he said. Singh feels consistency in his performance is of utmost importance.
 
 “It has been a difficult season for the Punjab side, as we failed to make it to the knockout stage of Ranji Trophy; but the shorter format is a different ball game all together, and if you look at our performances in shorter formats in the past four or five years, it has been excellent. We have got a great side and we definitely want to win the T20 championship,” he said.
 
 Donning the blue jersey again
 
 The Jalandhar lad misses donning the national team jersey. He is determined to be a part of the Men in Blue once again. Mandeep made his international debut against Zimbabwe in Harare and was part of India’s T-20 series triumph there. He even scored a delightful half-century in the second match of the series.
 
 “That (donning the national team jersey) was most special for me. As a cricketer, you live for moments like these. I was elated to have represented my country,” he said.
 
 “Last year, I didn't play many games due to injuries. Now, I am looking forward to play as many games as possible. I want to win games for Punjab with my batting. And, I want to wear the blue jersey once again. I am striving for excellence,” concluded Mandeep.
 
 
