Nagpur: The Maharashtra government, on Friday, submitted the Special Investigation Team’s (SIT) report probing the 44 farmer deaths due to pesticide inhalation. It was forced to do so after being rapped on the knuckles by the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Thursday. However, the report was submitted in a sealed envelope by the additional government pleader Anand Fulzele who stated that it was yet to be tabled before the state cabinet. A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi then tersely directed the government to complete all the formalities within a week. The demand for constituting a SIT was made in PIL by social worker Jammu Anand, through counsel Arvind Waghmare, citing several media reports, including that of TOI. He contended that over 700 other farmers were admitted in hospitals across Vidarbha with respiratory problems and about 25-30 lost their eyesight, due to failure in implementing Insecticides Act, 1968. Fulzele informed that the report was not fully complete as the home department headed by Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis was yet to give its opinion. The government has already taken opinions from all its departments on the SIT findings. Waghmare accused the government of deliberately delaying the report despite saying that it would be completed within three weeks of its formation on October 13. He also asked why the government was not making it public and added that it was not trying to protect farmers’ interests. Earlier, the chief secretary and agriculture department secretary filed a common affidavit through Pune-based agriculture commissioner Sachindra Singh listing out measures taken to prevent further deaths due to pesticides. Singh, along with the Yavatmal collector, also filed their separate affidavits in this regard, as per the court’s directives. Terming deaths as “menace”, both secretaries blamed the local authorities for “lack of coordination” at the initial stage which led to deaths and injuries, and stated that “it was a point for concern”. Ruling out any ignorance on implementation of Insecticides Act and Insecticides Rules, 1971, they stated that prolonged exposure to pesticides and failure to take proper protective measures are apparent major reasons for toxicity to operator. Denying inaction from the government, the duo informed that procedure for lodging police complaints was already initiated and about nine FIRs were registered against the dealers in Yavatmal, which was most affected. Moreover, stocks of six companies and five dealers were seized and legal actions were initiated against the errant manufacturers and dealers across the state. “Necessary directives were given to the commissioner to instruct manufacturing companies to provide safety kits from their corporate fund while selling products. Even a draft notification was submitted to the Central Insecticides Board and Union Ministry for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare to notify extremely, highly and moderately toxic insecticides. The entire issue needs in-depth studies to work out strategies to avoid recurrence of deaths due to pesticides use,” they said. With a view to properly identify the pest and promote right use of pesticides molecules, the government is implementing Crop Surveillance and Advisory Project (CROPSAP). Additionally, over 46.84 lakh farmers had registered for the SMS service in state of which 1.60 are from Yavatmal. Last year, about 307.82 lakh plant protection advisory messages were sent in the suicide-prone district. The secretaries informed that during Kharif season, cotton was sowed on 4,70,315 hectares in Yavatmal. On most of the area BT Boll Guard was used, but it was found to be susceptible to pink boll worm. In 2016-17, RCH-659 BG-II variety was banned and compensation of RS 36.83 lakh was ordered.  “As BT Bollgard has miserably failed to protect cotton from worms, the principal secretary recommended genetic engineering committee (GEAC), ICAR, CICR, Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare to cancel permission for BT Technology,” they said. 