BENGALURU: A 15-foot high statue surrounded by selfie enthusiasts, a bust made entirely of millets and an 11-foot tall idol of the lord being anointed for Mahamastakabhisheka — Lord   (Gomateshswara) was omnipresent at the 207th flower show at Lalbagh, which got off to a flying start on Friday.

 Speaking at the inauguration of the 10-day event, D Veerendra Heggade, Dharmadhikari, Dharmasthala, said: “Before Bengaluru was known as the  , it was the Garden City, and we must do our best to reclaim this tag. We should have a policy which makes it mandatory for everyone to set up a garden in their house or building”. 
 
 Apart from the Bahubali statue atop a floral replica of Indragiri Hill, other attractions which drew the crowd include floral pyramids and an 18-foot tall replica of the logo of Mahamastakabhisheka 2018, comprising four leaf kalasas bearing the map of the world, Karnataka, Hassan and the face and busts of Bahubali in different colours. Visitors were also seen thronging stalls selling everything from plants to millet items and traditional handicrafts. While Day 1 saw 15,000-16,000 visitors, the organizers are expecting a footfall of five lakh through the 10 days. 
 
 “I have been to Lalbagh before, but this is the first time that I have visited the show. I was fascinated by the variety of flowers,” said   H, 45, a tourist from Mumbai.
 
 Namitha S, a college student who was seen clicking a selfie under the heart-shaped floral arches, said, “The creations are exquisite, allowing us to a get a taste of Mahamastakabhisheka without actually leaving the city.”
 
 The Mini-Niagara falls developed by the horticultural department and the renovated 150-year-old horticulture library were inaugurated.
 
 Wood carvings on tree planted by Tipu
 
 Heavy rain that lashed Bengaluru last year uprooted many old trees across the city. These trees, however, are getting a new lease of life, with artists from across the country using them for wooden carvings. 
 
  Devaraj, sculptor and painter, is carving the ‘Tree of life, the legend of Baobab’ on a 240-year-old eucalyptus tree: “The seeds of this tree came from Australia more than 200 years ago, and it only fell recently during the monsoon,” he said. Not wanting to make too many changes, he is ‘tattooing’ the tree, by carving images of a leopard, dolphin, dodo and tiger. “One of the other teams is carving a mango tree that was planted by Tipu Sultan,” added John. 
 
 “About 13 trees are being carved. When trees fall, the normal practice is to sell them with the help of the forest department. However, since these two trees (eucalyptus and mango) have been a part of Lalbagh for more than two centuries, we thought of finding a way to ensure they continue to stay here,” said M Jagadeesh, joint director of horticulture (parks and gardens).
 
 To reduce waste, visitors have been asked to carry their own bags and reusable water bottles, and use designated bins for dumping trash.
 
 TAKE NOTE
 
 What: Republic Day flower show
 
 When: 9.30am to 7pm till Jan 28
 
 Entry fee: Rs 60 for adults and Rs 20 for kids. Entry is free for schoolchildren on January 20, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 27.
 
 
