NOIDA: The Government Post-Graduate College in Sector 39, the only government college in Noida, lacks basic amenities for students like safe  , guards or enough toilets, a situation that had been dubbed “dismal” by Union minister   during a recent meeting with Noida Authority officials. 

 The students of the college alleged that lack of maintenance had made the nine RO (reverse osmosis) purifiers installed in the college defunct for almost a year. 
 
 The students now are either forced to bring water from home or rush outside the college compound to buy bottles of water from the vendors, said  , a student of MA second year. 
 
 The college authorities rued there had been no maintenance despite numerous complaints to the Noida Authority and a subsequent visit by MLA Pankaj Singh in the first week of March. Hundreds of students had in February protested against the lack of maintenance of water purifiers and an alternative arrangement of potable drinking water.
 
 College principal   said the strength of the college had come down from around 3,000 students in 2013 to 1,700 in 2018 because of the lack of basic amenities. The college authorities said the funds from the higher education department and the Noida Authority for development and maintenance were not enough. 
 
 The inner wiring of the classrooms in the 34-year-old college is faulty, the students claimed, which often leads to tubelights becoming defunct. The old iron sewer lines are also prone to leakage, because of the lack of maintenance .
 
 The government college has only two toilets for students on the campus — one each for the boys and girls — and a third for the faculty.
 
 Principal Sharma said that despite multiple letters to the Authority, work for the maintenance of the road in the college compound and the toilets had not started. 
 
 “At times, I was told that tenders had been issued. But the work never started,” Sharma said. 
 
 Safety is another major concern for the female students, who constitute almost 60% of the student strength. There is only one security guard who is deployed at gate number 2 of the college. “We were given nine security guards a year back, but they were removed within months,” a student said.
 
 RP Singh, the director of higher education in the UP government, told TOI he was not aware of any of these problems in the college. He sought a written response from the principal on the issue.
 
 “We would require a written document from the college to ensure there is no doubling of funds. There are many colleges in the state. We have to be informed about these problems,” he said.
 
 
