RAJKOT: One person was arrested by Mumbai police’s crime branch on Friday for setting ablaze a 26-year-old Dalit in Veraval on February 23. The victim succumbed to injuries in   on Thursday.

 Police said that Devayat Jotva, one of the four accused who had allegedly set afire the deceased Bharat Gohel, was arrested from Palghar district in Maharashtra.
 
 Jotva, who was absconding since the incident, managed to escape when police from the Mumbai crime branch’s unit 10, on specific information, raided a hotel in suburban Andheri where he was hiding. However the police surveillance of Jotva helped them arrest him while his car was passing Khaniwade toll post in Palghar.
 
 According to Rajkot police, while under treatment, the deceased had given a statement that Jotva had threatened him over outstanding money on the car that Gohel had purchased from one Manubhai Parmar in Ahmedabad. He also said that Parmar had asked Jotva to recover the outstanding amount from Gohel.
 
 Gohel was hospitalized after being injured in the attack by four people at Ambaliyara village of Veraval taluka in   district on February 23. The incident took place when Gohel was returning home in his newly purchased used car at around 9:30am. 
 
 Four persons led by Devayat waylaid him near Ahir Samaj Wadi. They poured petrol on his car and set it ablaze. Gohel somehow managed to jump out of the car and tried to escape but one of the assailants threw a petrol bottle at him, which hit him on his back. When he fell down, one of them threw a burning matchstick on his back. 
 
 Passers-by took Gohel to Veraval civil hospital from where he was shifted to Rajkot.
 
 Gohel’s family members claimed that the burn wounds were not life threatening and he was recovering till Thursday morning. However, in the evening, he complained of pain in the legs and breathed his last. They alleged medical negligence on the part of the hospital staff.
 
 His family members had initially refused to accept the body until the four accused are arrested and their demands for compensation was accepted. However, they accepted the body on Friday and cremated it after assurance from district government officials.
 
 Gohel’s younger brother Manoj, who works with the postal department, had told media persons outside the Rajkot Civil Hospital that Gohel had purchased Chevrolet Enjoy car on OLX to start a car rental business.
 
 Manoj said that his brother had paid Rs 2.5 lakh. The remaining amount was Rs 30,000 and Rs 26,160 as insurance. The four accused had threatened Gohel to pay up the remaining amount immediately. 
 
 
