MYSURU: The   ( ) has cancelled applications by all the Institutions of Higher Learning including the   (UoM), and the   (KSOU) to run   courses from the academic year 2018-19. The UGC’s decision to stall the process has come as a huge setback to the two varsities, which will now have to apply afresh for permission to operate distance education courses.

 The UGC is yet to announce the calendar of events for submission and processing of applications of distance education courses. Both KSOU and UoM had planned on launching distance education courses with an eye on increasing their annual revenue. With the start of the next academic year barely fourths away, and the UGC not announcing dates for submission of fresh applications, uncertainty abounds the possibility of the two city-based varsities operating long-distance programmes from the 2018-19 academic year.
 
 In fact, the UGC circular that has been sent to all institutes of higher learning states that all applications submitted by institutions of higher learning to start correspondence courses for the 2018-19 academic year have been stands cancelled.
 
 The UGC had invited applications from universities to run distance education programmes in July and August 2017, following which UoM and KSOU had applied to operate both undergraduate and postgraduate courses through distance education.
 
 UGC’s decision to cancel all applications these applications comes at a time when KSOU is still battling to get its existing programmes re-recognised by the central body. Sources in the higher education department said that the UGC published fresh guidelines for submitting applications to distance education courses through a gazette notification on February 6. “The UGC is yet to finalise the modalities, format and announce the last date for submission of fresh applications. But it has directed all universities to follow the revised guidelines while applying again,” an official in the higher education department said.
 
 According to the sources in the state higher education department, on February 6, the fresh guidelines were published in regard to the distance education courses through a gazette notification.
 
 KSOU registrar KG Chandrashekar said that the varsity would submit its applications once the UGC invites them. “We have all documents and other records required to seek permission ready,” said Chandrashekar.
 
 On the other hand, the students remain on edge, as the uncertainty over their future continues. “The rules and regulations are being modified according to the whims and fancies of authorities. I wish UGC sticks to a timetable this time around,” said Adiga, a student who is hoping to pursue a course at KSOU.
 
 
