LUDHIANA: At a time when the sweltering heatwave in the city has taken its toll on the residents, municipal corporation officials have given the Ludhianvis a solid reason to smile. On Tuesday, the civic officials have finally opened the pool to the public. Doesn’t that sound music to the ears especially amid the blistering summer heat?

 Mayor Balkar   also enjoyed a dip in the pool along with other swimmers in the. Usually, the pool is opened for the public in April. However, this time due to delay in hiring the contractor for the maintenance and chlorination of water, the   opened it in May. The pool will remain open till October end.
 
 The officials had already started issuing forms to people who were interested in taking a swim here. In fact, around 15,00 forms are already sold. The officials have printed a total of 3,000 forms.
 
 Mayor Sandhu apologized to the public and said the pool should have started in April. However, he encouraged the residents to swim here.
 
 Meanwhile, the charges, which were fixed last year will remain the same this year as well. For a single person, the seasonal fees for the MCL pool are Rs 2,000. However, if he or she wants to take coaching then Rs 1,000 will be charged extra.
 
 For the government employees and students, the swimming pool charges will remain Rs 1,000 and coaching fees is also Rs 1,000. However, the MC employees will have to shell out Rs 800 for swimming and Rs 600 will be charged as coaching fees. In case, the couple wants to swim, they will have to shell out Rs 3,000. Their coaching fees have been fixed at Rs 1,000. Meanwhile, if couples want to bring their kids along for a dip in the pool, they will have to pay Rs 4,000. That’s not all. Rs 1,000 will be charged as coaching fees. Now, kids only above the age of 12 will be allowed to take a swim here.
 
 
 
 
 The officials have issued strict instructions to the staff who are deployed at the pool side to ensure nobody dives from a height. It is banned. Several years ago, a person had died while jumping from height into the water and since then MC has banned it. 
 
 
