KOLKATA: New Year’s Eve started off with a bang on Sunday as thousands of revellers turned up for the second leg of   at Salt Lake - a TOI initiative in association with   Police.

 It was the last morning of 2017 and thousands of people made out as much as they could to have fun and make merry throughout the day right from the morning by having a gala time with fun and frolic along with friends and family. 
 
 The main events at the main stage started off with an outstanding eastern classical dance performance by   group which caught attention of the people. This was followed by a taekwondo demonstration by athletes Roy’s Taekwondo Academy as revellers were awestruck by the kicking, punching and breaking demonstration by the team.
 
 The third event that was most popular among the youngsters was the Zumba dance performance by “Swag Swagger Supreme’ group as people got into the groove by dancing with the hindi film songs like Break up song and Zalima.
 
 While the main events for the day was being organised, other revellers made merry on their own way by playing games like football, cricket, basketball and badminton with friends and family. 
 
 A recreational and healing activity was conducted by the ‘Healing Drum Circle’ on one side of the three point road infront of   in which children as well as teenagers was given the chance to enjoy drumming by their own. Along with drumming, the participants also chanted and also made body movements which was full of fun.
 
 There was also various other activities for all age groups. While many attended the Yoga session held by ‘Healthy Billions’, children enjoyed skating on the road that was assisted by Fun on Wheels. There was Tug of War zone by   and also a Karate session by JKF Goju-Kai Takuji-Kenbukan Karate-do-India. There was also a kids activity groups by The Little Gym, Fun Pickle and Sticky Bits. 
 
 “It is a very enjoyable event. I had come here last week also,” said O.P.Singh, a 77 year old. “The Happy Streets event is much enjoyable. Today was the second time we came here, we earlier went to the Happy Street event that was organised at Park Street. We want this initiative to carry on,” said  , who came with his family from Lake Town.
 
 
