BENGALURU: Nearly 10 years after it was proposed, the   (BSBP) took its first step towards becoming a reality when the foundation stone was laid for the project next to Kempegowda International Airport ( ) on Thursday.

 The paradox, however, is that the government sought to lay the foundation stone for the project even while a concession partner is yet to come forward to execute and manage the project under the public-private-partnership ( ) model.
  
  
 “The project to develop a business park and convention centre is aimed at creating employment opportunities and it is expected to create over 40,000 jobs,” industry minister R V Deshpande said, after laying the foundation stone for BSBP and International Convention Centre ( ) to be developed at the venue.
 
 Sources in the Karnataka State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (KSIIDC) said the ceremony was rushed as the ruling   wanted to complete the formality before the model code of conduct for the upcoming assembly elections kicks in.
 
 “It’ll take time for the project work to begin as tenders have been just called and bidders are yet to respond. The CM did not want to miss this chance before the announcement of elections, and hence chose to have the ceremony,” said a source.
 
 Siddaramaiah, however, could not make it to the event as he was busy with the assembly session. “The business park and convention centre is a long-pending requirement. I agree that there has been an inordinate delay, but there are various reasons for that,” Deshpande added.
 
 The idea of a business park was mooted in 2008, soon after the international airport was commissioned, but the project was put on the back burner, thanks to global recession that hit the economy that year.
 
 The project again gained traction in 2015 when the government initiated the process to find the PPP partner by convening a round table and subsequently called for tenders, fixing November 4, 2016 as deadline. Since no bidder came forward, the last date for receiving bids was extended to December 26, 2016. No bidder turned up this time too. The KSIIDC revised the bid process and called for fresh tenders later last year and the bidders have time till May first week. KSIIDC officials said no bid has been received so far.
 
 C M Dhanajay, chairman, KSIIDC, justified the timing of the foundationlaying ceremony. “It has nothing to do with election. We need to take forward the project and it’ll be expedited after laying the foundation stone,” he said.
 
