Patiala: After allegations of bogus voting and   during the Patiala Municipal Corporation elections and more recently in Ludhiana, the incumbent Congress is apparently in spot again with a video of alleged booth capturing during byelection in Patran Municipal Council of Patiala district doing rounds on social media. 

 Unknown person shot the video of the incident during the bypoll here on Saturday and shared it on social media on Sunday. It went viral within hours, forcing the district administration to look into the matter.
 
 The byelection was scheduled after former Congress councillor Raj Kumar Singla died around 1.5 years back. He had won Ward no. 11 during the elections of municipal council in 2015. Now, his son and the Congress candidate Vivek Singla, 22, was facing the SAD candidate Shiv Chand, 40, as the lone competitor.
 
 In the video, some men can be seen, with one of them signing the slips of voters while another is apparently pressing EVM buttons.
 
 There are total 15 wards in the Patran town out of which five councillors are from SAD and the remaining are from the Congress. There are around 1,462 voters in this ward and two booths were installed at the center that was allegedly captured by the Congress workers at around 2 pm on Saturday.
 
 Chand alleged that the Congress workers kidnapped and locked them in separate rooms in presence of officials supervising the elections. “My 23-year-old daughter Deepika, who was our polling agent, was locked in a separate room and I, along with my supporters, was locked in another room.”
 
 He claimed that Patran Congress MLA Nirmal Singh too was present there. “If this is democracy then there was no need to hold elections. We are filing the complaint with the state election commission, the Union government, besides the district returning officials,” he added.
 
 Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit said that he has seen the video and will look into the matter. He said that action will be taken if anybody found guilty.
 
 Congress MLA could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
 
 
