CHANDIGARH: Imagine a   weighing around 12kg falling from a high building and crashing on the floor.   was left shaken after he saw a concrete slab falling from a dilapidated building in Sector 17-A.

 “The slab must have been over 12kgs and almost two feet. It was huge and anything could have happened. We are scared. A   might fall soon and it could lead to a fatal accident,” said Mittal, one of the supervisors in a shop located near Sector 17-A.
 
 This ramshackle building in Sector 17-A has become a cause of worry for the shoppers and pedestrians here. A large chunk of concrete fell from the third-floor balcony of the building, located in the row behind Hotel Oyster, on the ground around a month and a half ago. A pedestrian, who was standing a few feet away from the spot, narrowly escaped death. A second, this time a smaller piece of concrete, fell a few days ago.
 
 “It was about 10.30am when we heard a loud noise. When we came out of the shop, we saw a huge cement slab on the ground. It was broken into several pieces. A man, who was standing just a few feet away, had a narrow escape. But what if he was standing at the spot then?” said Sonu, one of the employees of a wholesale stationary store located nearby.
 
 The falling of slabs from the building has caused panic among the nearby shopkeepers, who have become extremely cautious while walking under the building these days. They have also started feeling unsafe. Cement slabs, brick and sand have been falling from the building for the last 10 years now. Due to a complete lack of maintenance, the paint has come off from the walls and now the building has a pale and ghostly appearance.
 
 Given the weak structure, one portion of the balcony wall is completely damaged. One can notice a large concrete slab hanging from an iron rod at a precarious angle. It can fall any moment and can lead to a serious accident.
 
 The building, which is one of the oldest buildings in Sector 17 market, was previously privately owned. Later, it was inhabited by the department of social justice and empowerment,  , on rent. However, they left and moved to   a few years ago, and the building has been left abandoned ever since. Iron rods, which support the structure, can also be seen sticking out of the building.
 
 “This building like many other buildings in the city is in a desperate need of repair and restoration. However, no one is bothered. Some of these buildings are said to be privately owned but the owners are non-traceable, hence leaving the responsibility of any renovation open-ended. I hope this doesn’t become a problem one day,” said a shop owner on the condition of anonymity.
 
 
