HYDERABAD: Though ‘poor performance' was cited as the official reason for suspension of three officials and transfer of another officer from   (ACB), sources revealed the real reason behind the punitive action was their   in HMDA director K Purushotham Reddy’s disproportionate assets (DA) case.

 A DSP, an inspector and a constable were suspended and a transportation wing in-charge inspector was repatriated to his parent department since the searches were conducted at Purushotham Reddy’s house in the city and other places on February 2 in relation to the   booked against him.
 
  
 
 Normally, ACB conducts searches on corrupt officials within a day or two after registration of a DA case. However, in Reddy’s case, though the DA case was registered against him on January 10, ACB sleuths had to wait till February 2 to conduct searches as they realised he was on the run.
 
 ACB officials, who were planning to conduct searches on January 11, realised that he suddenly went on leave and switched off his cell phone. Since the official was also not present at home, ACB sleuths suspected that someone from the bureau might have tipped him off.
 
 Call data analysis of different phones used by the tainted official revealed that there were phone calls between him and an inspector from ACB on January 10, the day the DA case was registered. Initially, in May 2017, the inspector, who was part of the Central Investigation Unit (CIU), was assigned the job of preparing a ‘source report’ on Purushotham Reddy. As the inspector turned in a report saying that no DA were found, the task was assigned to another officer and ACB officials believe the said inspector was in contact with the accused since 2017.
 
 They also found a constable of the bureau, who was given the task of keeping a watch on the movements of the accused officer, had tipped him off on January 10 about the registration of the DA case and plans of searches the next day.
 
 ACB DG J Purnachandra Rao has suspended the inspector who was part of the Central Investigation Unit (CIU) and the constable, who was working with the bureau’s City Range-2. Another inspector, who was the bureau’s transport wing incharge, has been repatriated to his parent wing of the police department and officially all suspensions were due to ‘poor performance’.
 
 Two-and-half months later, ACB sleuths suspended a DSP due to ‘poor performance’, but the sources said the real reason for his suspension was being in contact with the tainted official through manager of a popular city-based hotel chain.
 
 
