NAGPUR: The   started a cochlear transplant centre, the only one in the state in government set up, at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College ( ) last September. The central government project, which funds implants in one ear only, will soon be supplemented by a state government scheme to pay for an implant in the second ear too.

 The central government funded scheme is called ADIP (Assistance to disables persons for purchase/fitting of appliances), under the ministry of social justice and empowerment. The new state government scheme will be called ‘Shravnit Maharashtra’, where implants for second ear and rehabilitative assistance will be provided. This will not leave children midway, with hearing in only one ear. Though one ear implant does give hearing and speech ability to a child, it is like half hearing since the person can hear only from one ear.
 
 Dr Viral Kamdar, director of Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Institute of Medical Research, Science and Human Resource, and adviser to Union minister Nitin Gadkari told TOI that he had prepared a fresh proposal following the pattern of Kerala, where besides the ADIP, the state government provides money for the project.
 
 “As per the minutes of the meeting, chief minister   has agreed to replicate the Kerala model in toto. This has opened a new door for hearing-impaired and mute children to get cochlear implants in both ears as well as complete rehabilitation post-surgery,” said Dr Kamdar.
 
 Just fitting the hearing device doesn’t serve the purpose. The children require rehabilitation in the form of speech therapy, audiologist training, maintaining equipment throughout its life (which is just 5-6 years) without any physical damage, all post-operative care etc. All this along with fixing the second implant in the other ear will now be taken care of under the Shravnit Maharashtra scheme.
 
 At IGGMC, Dr Jeevan Vedi, professor and head, trained by Dr Milind Kirtane, the father of cochlear implants in the country at  , has so far performed five implants and another five are on the waiting list. If the state starts the state cochlear implant programme to support the ADIP, it will be a very big fillip for congenital hearing-impaired and mute children.
 
 The cochlear transplants are allotted to children from the Ali Yavarganj Hospital in Mumbai, which is the coordinating agency for the project. The hospital spends anything from Rs5 to 14 lakh for the implant. All tests before fixing the implant are done free of cost at IGGMC. Even the speech therapist and audiologist services to train the child after implant to hear and interpret it as language takes a lot of time, which too is done free of cost by IGGMC staff.
 
 
