It was nothing short of a seesaw right from the morning. With the PM accepting the resignations of two TDP ministers in the evening, it was curtains for the high drama. Later in the night, AP governor ESL Narasimhan accepted the resignations of the two BJP ministers.

 In Delhi, the two TDP ministers — Ashok Gajapathi Raju (civil aviation) and YS Chowdary (MoS for science & technology) had to wait till the evening to submit resignations to   for him to return from Jaipur. They met the PM at around 6 pm and put in their papers. While the terse letter of Chowdary thanked the PM for the “cooperation extended to him during his tenure as a member of the council of ministers,” Gajapathi Raju’s was relatively lengthy wherein he said he was quitting “with due respect to the prevailing public sentiment in his constituency as well as the circumstances that led to the situation.”
 
 Incidentally, Raju was to have been the chief guest at the India Civil Aviation show that commenced in Hyderabad on Thursday. In his absence, Telangana industries minister KT Rama Rao did the honours of opening the event.
 
 Meanwhile, YSR Congress president Jaganmohan Reddy stepped up the heat on Naidu by urging him to support the no-confidence motion to be moved by his party against the NDA government on March 21. Addressing the media in Prakasam district during his padayatra, Jagan said Naidu should now join him in strengthening the movement he had launched to seek SCS for AP.
 
 While Thursday’s developments ended the governmental association between the two parties, it remains to be seen how long before the TDP walks away from the NDA coalition. This is because both the parties ended up making strong political statements reiterating their stances. When asked about the resignations, Chowdary told the mediamen, “One national party has deceived. Another has cheated. It is for you to decide who is who.” Earlier in the day, in Amaravati, the two sides indulged in hitting out at each other. Speaking in the assembly lobbies after tendering their resignations, Srinivas and Manikyala Rao said the BJP-led government at the Centre had done a lot for AP in the last four years and is committed to do more in years to come. They also appealed to the TDP to stop spreading canards about “non-cooperation” of the central government and said the Modi government had set up nine out of 11 central institutions as promised. They also felt that it was not right on the part of the TDP and other parties to hide these facts and spread a false campaign against the BJP-led government.
 
 Naidu said in the assembly that the resignation of the two TDP ministers was a political decision taken in the interests of the state.“The Congress had promised us SCS and it was backed by the BJP during the elections. Based on that, we promised SCS to the people during the 2014 elections and if it is not fulfilled we cannot go back to them and ask for votes,” the CM said.
 
 Naidu said “In a cooperative federal structure, the national parties cannot ignore the interests of states,” and added that a national party like the Congress was wiped out in AP because of the injustice it had done to the state at the time of bifurcation. “The BJP too could face a similar fate if it fails to fulfil the promises made to the people of AP,” he added.
 
 
