Vadodara: Soon, you will be able to see the big wild cats roam around freely in their natural habitat in the city. The civic body has drawn up ambitious plans to revamp the Sayajibaug zoo that is one of the most popular destinations here. 

 The zoo that took off in 1879 is home to several animals and exotic birds brought here from different parts of the country. 
 
 “For the first time since the zoo was made during the rule of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III, it is being revamped as per the contemporary needs. The idea is to give an open space to the animals and birds and let them live in their natural environs. There won’t be any cages with cramped spaces for the animals and birds in the zoo anymore,” said Dr Vinod Rao, municipal commissioner. 
 
 Work on remodelling the area housing   and tigers has already begun on the southern end of the park. “The pairs of lions and tigers will be let loose in a big area measuring thousands of square-meters in the zoo. A five-meter deep moat will separate the enclosures of lions and tigers from the viewing area. People will be able to see these wild cats will move around freely without any cage,” said Pratyush Patankar, Sayajibaug zoo curator. 
 
 The leopards and jackals too will be kept in an open moat enclosure and there will be an entire section in the zoo that will display wildlife of Gujarat. “While majority of the cages will be demolished, the ones built during the times of Maharaja Sayajirao will be kept intact as they have heritage value. We plan to keep small cats in these cages,” Patankar said. 
 
 Some of the rare and exotic birds that are currently kept in small cages too will be able to enjoy the flight of freedom. “We are making the country’s biggest aviary enclosure wherein all the birds will be kept. People will walk in the aviary enclosure and see the birds from up close,” Rao told TOI. While the open moat enclosures of lions and tigers will be thrown open to public by August 15 this year, the aviary will function by October. 
 
 Rao said that the aviary’s project cost of Rs 14 crore will be borne by the state government, Rs 8 crore required for the wildlife moat enclosures will be funded from Swarnim Gujarat funds. The enclosures of herbivorous animals, primates and reptiles too be revamped. “Our officials went around the country and consulted the experts before undertaking the revamping zoo project. We have adopted some of the best practices in the world,” Rao said.
 
 Presently, the Sayaji Baug Zoo has 212 animals of 18 species, 583 birds of 64 species and 79 reptiles of seven species. These includes four species from the big cat family, five species of Primates and nine species of Ungulates (hoofed animals). The zoo is home to 874 animals of 89 species. 
 
 Zoo to have white tiger
 
 Barodians will also be able to watch the white tigers from up close. The Sayajibaug zoo authorities are in talks with some other zoos to bring in a pair of white tigers apart from some other animals like sloth bears and hyenas. 
 
 
