NEW DELHI:   ( ) president   called on the Indian government on Tuesday to boycott the Commonwealth Games in 2022 over the Birmingham Organising Committee's (OC) decision to drop the   discipline from the Games programme for the 22nd edition.

 
 
 
 Raninder also informed that he would be raising the issue with IOC president Thomas Bach, who will be visiting India from April 18-20 to meet the newly-elected executive body of the Indian Olympic Association led by Narinder Batra.
 
 
 
 
 In another significant announcement, the NRAI chief revealed that India will skip the forthcoming editions of ISSF World Cups in the USA and Malta with a view to keep the shooters fresh for the bigger challenges ahead, most importantly the ISSF World Championships in Changwon, Korea and Asian Games in Jakarta. The Changwon World Championships will double up as a qualifying tournament to secure quota place for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics. However, the shooters will travel to the Korean and Munich World Cups.
 
 “It's absolutely unfair that a major Olympic discipline in being treated in such a shabby manner by the Birmingham CWG organisers. India is a strong nation in shooting and they can't take away the sport from us. I would request the Indian government to boycott the Games. I will be raising this issue with Mr Bach as well,” Raninder said during a function here to felicitate the Indian shooters who returned with a bucketful of medals from the Gold Coast CWG. Indian shooters won a total of 16 medals, including seven gold.
 
 “What's the point behind these Indian shooters winning so many medals? Shall I throw them in the dustbin? I can see a pattern. First pairs event was removed, then teams event was removed, then certain events were removed and now they have removed the sport altogether from the CWG. This is unfair. I will be writing to the sports minister ( ) and IOA president (Narinder Batra) to work towards getting shooting included in Birmingham Games. I have a luncheon meeting scheduled with Mr Bach too, and I will request him to look into the matter,” he added.
 
 Raninder informed that he has been in touch with CGF president Louise Martin and other Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) members to get this “ridiculous” situation corrected.
 
 “ISSF (shooting’s world body) had three sets of meeting with the Birmingham organisers in the presence of Ms Martin and the Commonwealth shooting federation president. The organisers believe that it would be expensive to create structure for shooting ranges. I will request them to hold the shooting events in Brisley which is just 70km away from Birmingham,” he added.
 
 Recently, Rathore wrote a letter to the CGF president and Birmingham OC requesting them to reconsider their decision to drop shooting from the Games. However, CGF CEO David Grevemberg had, in a communication to all Commonwealth Nations in February, categorically stated that there will be no going back on the decision since shooting has always been an “optional” sport.
 
