DAVOS: Over culinary delights such as gucchi khumb masaladar and dum aloo benarasi, Prime Minister   will entertain global CEOs on Monday night, pitching India’s policies and growth potential at a private roundtable dinner he’s hosting at the World Economic Forum in  . Modi is scheduled to arrive at the Swiss ski resort on Monday afternoon for a 24-hour, whistle-stop tour packed with bilateral meetings, the keynote address at the plenary session and several interactions with top Indian and overseas corporate bosses, before flying out the next day, said people familiar with his plans. This is the first time in two decades that an Indian PM will be at the annual WEF meeting, the last one having been HD Deve Gowda.

 The private dinner at the Inter Continental is for 125 special invitees who will be briefed about the various government initiatives to liberalise foreign investments and replace “red tape with red carpet” that has already led to $80 billion of investment in process. The new opportunities in healthcare, manufacturing, renewable energy, ecommerce, infrastructure and other areas will be in focus as will the strength of local human capital.
 
 In attendance will be expat Indians like PepsiCo’s   and Microsoft’s   as well as Ericsson CEO Borje Ekholm, Qualcomm’s Paul Jacob, Thyssenkrupp’s Heinrich Hiesinger, Hitachi’s Hiroaki Nakanishi, Sultan Ahmed bin Sulayem of DP World, IBM’s boss and WEF cochair Ginni Rommety and Alibaba’s  . Others on the guest list include Anders Runevard of Swedish wind energy major Vestas, Jesper Brodin of IKEA, Carlyle PE’s cofounder David Rubenstein as well as Larry Fink of Blackrock.
 
 
 Chief executives and chairmen of Wall Street banks like Citi, Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Merrill Lynch along with Volvo, American Towers, trading giant Trafigura, Kuwait Investment Authority, and American Towers Corporation (ATC) will also enjoy the specially created traditional Indian thali meal designed by top Taj Group chefs. Items on the menu include gobhi mutter ki tehari, murgh tariwala and shikampuri kebab. The dessert selection will include gajar halwa cake, elaichi bhapa doi, coconut chikki and sukhri crumb.
 
 A select group of top CEOs will represent India Inc — arguably the biggest delegation this year of around 100 — at that dinner led by Mukesh Ambani, N Chandrasekaran, Rahul Bajaj, Azim Premji, Sunil Mittal, Sajjan Jindal, Gautam Adani, Anand Mahindra, Baba Kalyani, Pawan Munjal, Hari Bhartia, Uday Kotak and Chanda Kochchar.
 
 The following day, after his plenary session, the PM will meet the forum’s International Business Council (IBC), comprising close to 120 senior global leaders, which acts as an advisory body providing intellectual stewardship. “Another set of top international CEOs from Walmart, Pfizer, McKinsey and Uber will be there. We will try to avoid duplication,” said another official in charge of planning and organisation.
 
 Right after his speech, Modi is also expected to meet a wider group of Indian business leaders.
 
 Two themes will underscore the India initiative at Davos. The business and investment pitch will be largely in the bilateral meetings and the dinner while Modi’s keynote address will be mostly on this year’s central theme of creating a shared future amid fractured mandates and India’s pivotal role both in the region and across the wider global stage.
 
 “We have all been briefed by the finance and commerce ministers beforehand so that everyone speaks the same language, presents a unified picture,” said Avaada Group chairman Vineet Mittal, a Davos regular. “The ministers also wanted feedback and key takeaways from the delegates for the official communications.”
 
 In interviews ahead of his visit, Modi said India’s economy is growing rapidly and has been recognised by the world, including rating agencies. Davos is a “good opportunity” for the country as it is a big market with the strength of a demographic dividend. “The country is seeing the biggest jump in foreign direct investment (FDI). It is natural that the world wants to talk directly to India and the world wants to hear directly from the horse’s mouth about India’s policies and potential. It matters if you hear it from the leader,” Modi said.
 
 The India hardsell will also be carried out by Modi’s six cabinet colleagues led by finance minister Arun Jaitley and commerce minister Suresh Prabhu. They will also be participating in parallel sessions to highlight the New India in Davos even after the PM’s departure. Invest India — a trade promotion body — in collaboration with consultants Bain & Co. has prepared a detailed investment fact-book with the testimonials of international CEOs that will be distributed in Davos.
 
