Public opinion seems to be deeply divided on Union Cabinet’s decision to promulgate an ordinance to provide death penalty for those convicted rape of girls below 12 years of age.

 TOI spoke to eminent lawyers, child rights activists and bureaucrats, among others, and a diverse range of opinions emerged. Though some felt that capital punishment may act as a major deterrent , others urged for proper execution of existing laws. It has to be coupled with awareness campaigns and speedy action by police, said some while others mai ntained that death penalty may instigate criminals to kill the rape survivors.
 
 
  
 Former chief secretary and president of Child Right Observatory Nirmala   said, “The spirit behind the new law may be all right, but there is a potential fear that it would do more harm to the rape victims than good. There is a need to show urgency in filing of FIR, arrest the accused and fast track court proceedings. But all this is not done. Instead, we go on increasing punishment in the hope that it would become a deterrent for the offenders. You know, it’s not ordinary criminals who indulge in such heinous crimes and now that there is death penalty, they may resort to kill the victim so as to leave no evidence of the crime.”
 
 On the other hand, former advocate general of the state Ravinandan Singh said in view of the rising cases of rape, such laws have become unavoidable. “It would act as a deterrent and have a positive impact provided it’s implemented properly,” he said. Senior advocate in MP high court   said: “Quantum of sentence has a fear psychosis, which definitely works as a deterrent, but only quantum won’t help. Spreading awareness in society is must. And, then if rape or any crime is committed in a fit of rage, no deterrent would work. Provision of capital punishment to rapists may substantially change the scenario, but this alone is not sufficient. It has to be coupled with awareness campaign and speedy action by police.”
 
 President of   Shivendra  , said that bringing in the ordinance was like government playing to the gallery. “If a debate takes place in Parliament over pros and cons of a legislation or amendment Bill, you get an insight on the longterm impact of the law being introduced. But, laws being introduced in a knee-jerk reaction, more in view of public sentiments, rather than conviction is not a good sign.”
 
 Child right activist, Prashant Dubey, said that he has been against capital punishment to rapists all through. “We had presented a memorandum to the governor opposing the Bill, which provided death penalty to rapists of children in MP. Now, the Union government has promulgated an ordinance to this effect. At a time when 100 nations have abolished death penalty or are in the process of doing it, India trying to find remedy of everything in death penalty was weird. POCSO is a complete law in itself, but its provisions were never implemented in right earnest and now when bizarre incidents of rape were being reported from different parts of the country, they are changing the law.”
 
 
