NEW DELHI: At 6.12pm on Wednesday, the   at   in   crackled into life and the   posted there heard the word  . Within minutes, the 22 pickets in the area went on high alert. There were four more flashes about a shooting incident in the next eight minutes.

 A man had been shot dead at Sector 23 by three men on a bike. Among the watchful police teams, the one stationed outside Sector 21 metro station noticed that the two men riding towards them on a motorcycle had blood stains on their clothes and the bike’s number plate was bent.
 
 “The men wouldn’t stop despite being signalled to do so, and a policeman grabbed the pillion rider by his collar,” revealed a senior police officer on Thursday. “When they fell, a country-made pistol was thrown on the road and one of the bikers desperately tried to grab it. He was, however, pinned to the road. The other attempted to flee towards the metro station, but was chased and caught. He also carried a pistol.”
 
  
 When questioned by a team led by Rajender Singh, ACP (Dwarka), Sabir and Amjad confessed that they had come to Delhi on a mission to kill Firoz Ali on February 12 from Siwan, Bihar, with the third man, Sanjay, who managed to escape the police.
 
 The investigating officers said that the murder was the fallout of an ongoing feud between gangster Shahabuddin, who is currently in Tihar Jail, and his rival Raees Khan, who is in a Bihar prison. Firoz Ali was a close aide of Shahabuddin till 2008, while Sanjay works with Khan. The two gangs, both involved in land grabs and extortion, are fighting for supremacy in Siwan. Ali had at least 10 criminal cases registered against him.
 
 Khan had attacked Ali in 2015 too. In the gunfight, Ali was shot in the leg, while another Shahabuddin henchman, Tinku, was killed. Khan was arrested and imprisoned, but Ali felt continuously threatened and quietly moved to Delhi with his family six months ago. He started a hotel with a partner, and also rented a flat in Pochanpur Village, all without disclosing this to anyone.
 
 Last month, Sanjay, who lives in Mahipalpur, discovered Ali’s whereabouts and informed Khan. The gang leader contracted cousins Sabir and Amjad to kill Ali. They were promised Rs 1 lakh each for the job, and were given a 9mm pistol and a country-made pistol to carry out the killing.
 
 After arriving in Delhi on the Sampark Kranti Express, the accused got access to a motorcycle procured on fake identity cards and checked into a hotel located adjacent to a place that Ali frequented. After conducting a recon, the trio decided to target Ali near Dwarka because it offered more escape routes than the congested Mahipalpur.
 
 They succeeded in their mission on Wednesday, but while escaping took a wrong turn and into the cops’ hands. They have been remanded in police custody for seven days, during which they will also be taken to Siwan.
 
 
