NEW DELHI: As the youngster assumed a   pose with a   held in both his hands, his older cousin pointed the cell phone camera at him, hoping to create an iconic photo to post on Facebook. Instead the photo session in   turned into a tragedy on Thursday evening when the gun went off and the 23-year-old was shot in the chest. While the teenaged shooter has been counselled and will be sent to a  , police have detained his father, the owner of the firearm.

 The police learnt of the incident when the youth was taken to nearby   around 9.30pm, where he died soon after. The cops said that the 17-year-old boy had managed to get hold of his father’s licensed gun and the two decided to click photographs posing as gunmen. They locked themselves into a bedroom and tried various positions.
 
 In one, the deceased advised his cousin to stand in the manner of the fictional spy with the gun pointed at the camera. The teenager told police that he thought the picture would appear realistic if he pressed the trigger, little realising that the gun was loaded. Hearing the gunshot, the youngster’s mother and sister, who were in the adjoining room, rushed to the locked room and forced the teenager to open the door. They found the older youth on the ground and took him to hospital. “We have registered a case of culpable homicide based on preliminary inquiries,” said Chinmoy Biswal, DCP (southeast). We found that the gun owner had left the weapon loaded and within the reach of his minor son. So, he has been booked under the Arms Act.”
 
 Family sources said the youth had recently completed his graduation from a Delhi college and had begun working as a physical education teacher in a school in Baghpat, UP. He was in Delhi to visit the family of his uncle, who had recently bought a flat at Sarita Vihar.
 
 A relative said the father of the shooter, who owns a real-estate firm in NCR, had a wedding to attend. While getting ready, he had opened the locker in which the gun was kept but forgot to lock it when leaving. The teenager was counselled and will be sent to a juvenile home, while the father has been detained by police for questioning.
 
 
