COIMBATORE: In order to prevent smuggling of essential commodities from the fair price shops, the   (TNPDS) is likely to authenticate the users’ identity by way of one-time password ( ) in the district.

 Under the system, users would have to provide the OTP, which would be sent to their registered mobile numbers soon after swiping their smart cards at the shops, said a   official. And the essential commodities would be issued to them only if the OPT matches with their details. 
 
 The project would be implemented in the district on a pilot basis. The move is expected to reduce the smuggling of goods at a large scale as the commodities could not be issued in the names of the users without their knowledge. The official said they have directed all the users to link their mobile numbers with the smart cards.
 
 About 98% of PDS users (9,80,945 of the 10,00,771) in the district have already registered their mobile numbers with the smart cards.
 
 Presently, purchase bill is sent to the registered mobile number of a user after the purchase of essential commodities and complaints regarding bogus billing, if any, are received through message or registered on the official website.
 
 Pointing out that the project was still at the discussion level at the commissionerate, an official with the office of the district supply officer said, "We are yet to receive an official communication from the commissionerate."
 
 While expressing optimism that the proposed method might reduce the smuggling of essential commodities from fair price shops, a ration shop employee, on condition of anonymity, said the system might become a burden for the elderly people, who do not know how to use a mobile phone or own one.
 
 "Instead, the state government should implement the biometric system. It will not only be helpful to the users, but also bring out if employees are at fault," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the flying squad of PDS has foiled a bid to smuggle ration rice to  . "On a tip, we conducted a raid at the railway station at   and seized 20 sacks of rice, each weighing 50kg," an official, who was part of the flying squad, said.
 
 
