Rajkot: The National Human Rights Commission ( ) on Tuesday issued a notice to Gujarat government over the lynching of a 30-year-old Dalit ragpicker allegedly by five persons on Sunday (May 20) in Shapar industrial area of Rajkot and sought a report on it within four weeks.

 Mukesh  , a Dalit ragpicker, was lynched over suspicion of theft from a factory. His wife Jaya and aunt Savita were also roughed up by the accused. Four persons were arrested and a minor boy, aged 17 years, was detained on Monday in connection with the incident after a video of the crime — purportedly showing two persons taking turns to beat Vaniya, with a stick while another person holding him by a rope tied to his waist — went viral on social media.
 
 Taking suo motu cognizance of media reports, the commission observed that, “if true, (the case) raises serious issues of violation of human rights of the victim”. NHRC said in a statement, “it has issued a notice to the chief secretary to the government of Gujarat calling for a report in the matter within four weeks along with measures taken for relief to the affected families”. 
 
 While police said that the accused suspected Vaniya and his family members to be thieves, the deceased’s wife Jaya alleged that the accused hurled caste-based abuses before thrashing them when they refused to clean up garbage from near their factory. 
 
 Gujarat government on Monday announced Rs 8.25 lakh compensation for Vaniya’s family. Ishwar Parmar, social justice and empowerment minister and Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS, home, also assured strict legal action against the culprits.
 
 Those arrested in the case include Jaysukh Radadiya (39), owner of Radadiya Industries, his two brothers-in-law Chirag Vitthal Vora (28) and Divyesh Kishorebhai Vora (32) and his associate Tejas Kanubhai Zala (29). All have been booked under IPC Sections 302 (murder), 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with deadly weapon) and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocity) Act. They have been remanded to police custody till May 25.
 
 Vaniya and his family had migrated from Parnala village in Limbdi taluka of   to Rajkot last week in search of employment. He is survived by his wife Jaya and two children — a four-year-old son and eight-year-old daughter.
 
  Commenting on the NHRC notice, chief secretary JN Singh said, “NHRC has instructed us to file action taken report in Shapar case. Accused have been arrested and compensation disbursed as per norms. All immediate required action have been taken."
 
 
