NAGPUR: What started as an effort to teach the finer points of Bengali culture to children way back in 1888 gradually turned into a formal school catering to the rising Bengali population in the city. As   celebrates its centenary on January 20, a host of past students and teachers recall fondly the numerous memories that they still carry close to their hearts.

 “I can’t remember the name of the gentleman who began teaching finer nuances of Bengali culture to students at his home. Later, as the number of students grew, he rented a room at Telipura in the Sitabuldi area in 1902, and taught from there,” says Ila Bannerjee, a past student and former principal of the school. “When Sir BK Bose, who was the vice chancellor of   during the 1900s learnt about this initiative, he decided to give it proper shape by donating two plots of land to construct the school building, which was named after his father Dinanath Bose,” informs Bannerjee.
 
 The school opened in 1918 and most of the students came from Bengali homes. “A large chunk of Bengalis serving in the postal and railways department were transferred to Nagpur from Bengal. The school mostly catered to them,” says  , current principal of the school.
 
 “Though initially students were taught in Bengali medium, the school switched to teaching in English around the 70s,” says Bannerjee. Besides inculcating Bengali culture, it also provided facilities for sports and cultural activities along with high standards of formal education,” says Bannerjee, who served as principal from 1979 to 1996. The first SSC batch passed out in 1927. Beginning as a junior school in 1918, it became a junior college in 1975. It has since added another non-aided wing: BK Bose High School.
 
 Today, the school has a sprawling 12,000 sqft campus and is famous for the varied cultural activities that take place here. Besides the 10-day Durga puja, the school also holds Saraswati Puja on Basant Panchami, which is followed by a feast. “In the 60s and 70s, Bengali Durga puja was a unique event in the city. We used to feel so proud that it was performed in our school,” says businessman and cricketer Tarun Patel.
 
 “There used to be an exhibition also on the school grounds, which was very popular and we were happy to be associated with it through our school,” he says and adds, “Whatever I achieved in life was due to the personal interest taken by my teachers there and the good values which they inculcated in me.”
 
 The school boasts of a strong alumni association, which has taken over the centenary celebrations too. “We have formed  , under which we organized a number of events throughout 2017. The event on January 20 at Suresh Bhat auditorium will be the culmination of these celebrations,” informs Jai Ambhore, a central government employee, who along with others is spearheading the show.
 
 The trust is spending Rs5 lakh for these celebrations from the contributions made by alumni. “More than 1,000 old students have come from across the country and abroad to attend the celebrations,” he informs. “We have also made an audio-video presentation in which we have spoken to a number of alumni of the school. The most distinguished is 100-year-old DP Mitra, who started numerous sports activities in the school after he left it, and is also the recipient of the Chhattrapati Award for Sports given by the state government,” says Ambhore.
 
 Busy putting the event together, the alumni office at the school is soaked in nostalgia as old class fellows meet up. “I have come here after 35 years and am flooded with memories as we relive our school days,” says  , an engineer who has come from Gujarat. “This school was like second home to me as my father taught here,” says Soma Kiran, an accounts officer involved with the centenary celebrations. “As students, we would get involved in activities like cutting vegetables for the Saraswati puja feast, which would be prepared by cooks. Today, this activity has been outsourced.” 
 
 
