AHMEDABAD: After making big-ticket investments in Gujarat, automobile majors are now pushing their vendors of auto components and Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) to set up their manufacturing facilities in the state as automakers are facing short supply of auto components. Automobile giants such as   ( ) and   India, which have set up their manufacturing facilities in the state, are now pushing their vendors to establish production units to the state.

 “We already have some 18 vendors located in Sanand, near our manufacturing facility, which supply automobile components to the company. However, there are a few vendors based outside Gujarat. Through our vendor development programmes, we encourage vendors on quality and manufacturing aspects and also request them to set up base near in our plant’s vicinity depending on their feasibility. This helps reduce our logistics costs,” said Anil Patel, plant manager, Ford – Sanand.
 
 According to state government figures, some 17 automobile ancillary units are making investments in Bhagalpur industrial estate which is located near SMC’s car manufacturing plant in Hansalpur. Well-placed sources indicated that Maruti Suzuki India Ltd is also in talks with its vendors to set up manufacturing facility in Gujarat in the vicinity of its parent company SMC’s plant.
 
 “The company already has certain vendors who supply automobile components to the plant in Hansalpur. However, there are vendors based outside Gujarat, who are being encouraged to come to Gujarat by the company as well as the government of Gujarat,” said a source. Similar is the case for   which has 28 vendors in the Sanand GIDC. Despite this, there are certain components which are procured from outside Gujarat, revealed a company spokesperson.
 
 Estimates by Auto Components Manufacturers Association (ACMA) suggest there are very few OEMs in Gujarat. “Given the extent of investments in the state, the number of OEMs needs to drastically go up in the coming year or two and the scope is wide,” said Vinnie Mehta, director general,  , which is organising a value chain summit in Gandhinagar in May to bring OEMs to Gujarat. 
 
