NEW DELHI: Officials of state governments and police will soon be barred from entering air traffic control (ATC) complexes across India on their regular airport entry passes (AEP) as a fallout of   cops repeatedly entering the   complex at Kolkata airport to “ensure” aircraft with chief minister   on board land without any delay.

 
 The   (AAI) has asked the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), which issues AEPs, to specifically mention that passes given to police and state government officials for protocol purposes do not grant them access to the ATC complex — main tower and technical area. Airport passes allow varying level of access to pass holders, depending on where all they are required to go, and the same is mentioned clearly on the reverse side of the pass. 
 
 “We have studied the issue (following Kolkata police entering ATC area in the city airport) and found there is no necessity for people to go everywhere in an airport. We have accordingly written to BCAS. ATC personnel perform a highly sensitive task and we cannot allow any distraction there,” AAI chairman Guruprasad Mahapatra told TOI.
 
 Airport entry passes are issued to state government and senior police officials as they have to frequently go there for facilitation and protocol duties whenever the CM, governor or some high level central dignitary if flying in or out of airports in their state. This is especially true for state capitals. 
 
 Following recent — and unprecedented — instances of Bengal police entering the ATC complex at Kolkata airport when CM Mamata Banerjee was flying into the city, AAI first asked Bengal government to ensure that such a thing does not happen. When this did not stop, the authority had to find a way of avoiding interference in the highly technical and sensitive task that ATC personnel perform by the presence of people who are not supposed to be there.
 
 “ATC tower are highly sterile places where unauthorised personnel should not be present. A single distraction to the ATC personnel discharging their duties can cause havoc,” said a senior official. After contemplating the problem, the authority found a way out.
 
 “AEPs issued to state officials and police personnel mention ATC tower and its technical block also as the areas where they are allowed to go. But these people have no business to be there. At the most they are required for protocol or facilitation reasons at terminal building or the apron from where the dignitary is flying in or out,” the official said.
 
 Accordingly, the authority has requested the director-general of BCAS to ensure that AEPs issued to state government and police officials who are not required to be at the ATC block should mention all the pass grants access to all areas except two — ATC tower and ATC technical block — at airports across India. CISF personnel check AEPs and grant access to areas only to places allowed in the pass.
 
 Only a few flights are accorded priority in landing sequence — those with the PM or President or a foreign head of state on board; those with medical emergency; running low on fuel or facing any other technical or security challenge. 
 
 “A commercial aircraft with a CM on board does not get priority simply because of the CM being on board. Sending cops to ATC centre and pressurising controllers to give priority to such an aircraft is neither allowed, nor safe. It is unnecessary interference in a very sensitive work,” said the official.
 
 
