According to a recent study conducted by a leading mobile health and   platform, Gurugram, Noida and Ghaziabad are the most fitness-conscious cities in the country. The study found that in these cities, 45% people run daily, and on an average, people work out at least 10 days a month. This isn’t the first time that Gurugram has won the race to be the country’s fittest city. In 2015, a similar study conducted by an online food ordering platform had found the Millennium City to be the most health-conscious in India. Time and again, different studies have adopted different parameters and methods but the result has been constant – Gurugram is home to the most fitness-conscious and fitness-friendly people. Fitness enthusiasts, amateur runners, and athletes from Gurugram tell us the reasons that have helped shape Gurugram’s fitness culture as we take a look at what makes Gurugram the most fitness-conscious city in India.

 
 
  
  
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 Most fitness enthusiasts say that it is no coincidence that the fitness revolution in Gurugram began after the proliferation of corporates in the city. Manish Kalra, Director, Ernst & Young, and also a fitness trainer, says, “The fitness fad of the city is an offshoot of Gurugram’s corporate culture. In the west, the emphasis on having a fit body is high among the working class. With Gurugram hosting so many expats and foreign nationals, that culture has been transferred here. So many companies promote running activities and workouts. CEOs and top executives participate in races and inspire their subordinates to follow suit. That is why you see hundreds of people from every company in Gurugram participating in the marathons and half-marathons of NCR.”
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Runners say that the presence of countless running, cycling, and fitness groups in the city means that every morning, there are thousands of fitness enthusiasts out the city, which gives Gurugram an atmosphere conducive to running, particularly for women, who feel more comfortable as a result. Anita Yadav from Sector 56, who represented India at the World Masters Athletics Championships 2016, tells us, “If there are so many people running, cycling, and walking every morning, it creates a conducive environment automatically. When I go out for my runs every morning, I am greeted by dozens of runners and cyclists every day. That means that even if I am running alone, I am never truly alone. That is essential in an Indian city for a woman who runs by herself. That is something that sets Gurugram apart from other towns.”
 
 
  
  
 
  
  Fitness enthusiasts, amateur runners, and athletes from Gurugram make it the most fitness-conscious city (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 Gurugram hosts more marathons and long distance runs than all of its NCR neighbours put together, according to the runners from the city. Fitness enthusiasts say that an abundance of these events whets the competitive appetite of fitness enthusiasts. “Anybody who wants to take up running here has so many opportunities. Fitness is addictive. So, once people begin, they don’t stop. The sheer regularity of events in Gurugram means that something is always happening here every weekend. Even in comparison to other fitness-conscious cities like Pune or Bangalore, Gurugram is miles ahead when it comes to races and events,” says city-based triathlon coach and Ironman Gaurav Makkar.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
 
 Late last year, the Ironman Triathlon in Malaysia saw six participants from Gurugram – the highest from any Indian city. The city has given more triathletes, long-distance runners, and endurance athletes than any other city in the recent years. Athletes from the city say that the presence of world-class achievers in fitness in the city gives enthusiasts local role models, who are also easily accessible. Nagender Singh, a four-time Ironman finisher from the city, says, “When you have so many people from your city taking it to the next level in the field of fitness, that motivates the beginners. People see you run and train, and think if he can do it, why can’t I try something similar too? Moreover, these role models aren’t some distant figures, but people you see every week in some run or other.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Runners say that more than a competitive activity, running – or participating in any fitness activity – is recreational for Gurugrammers. Richa Kalra, a Sushant Lok resident who regularly participates in long distance races, says, “Gurugram is a small, compact metro filled with workaholics from the corporate sector – people with high pressure jobs. For them, running is a stressbuster. It is what gives them relief from their hectic work lives while ensuring they do something active while being in sedentary jobs.” 
 
 Faizi Khan, an avid runner who lives near Cyber Hub, says, “Running is both a stressbuster and therapeutic for people here. It is not just fitness for the body but complete fitness of the mind and soul as well. People who run in Gurugram do it because it gives them peace and joy. It is a holistic activity here.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 They say that while in Delhi, people go for theatre or clubbing on the weekends, in Gurgaon, they run. For many, fitness is a tool for socializing in the Millennium City. Roma Gupta, a 27-year-old running enthusiast from the city, says, “Before I started running, my social circle was limited to my work colleagues. But after I started participating in runs and marathons, it steadily grew. Now, I have a separate friends circle from people I run with and regularly hang out with. These are people with similar interests. So, running isn’t just about fitness but about socialising as well in Gurgaon.”
 
 
  
  There are so many fitness events and role models in the city that it is difficult to not be motivated 
  
  
 
 
 
 
