KRISHNAGIRI: A major fire broke out in a unit that manufactures head lights and indicator lamps for bikes, cars and heavy vehicles near   here on Thursday 11am. While no one was injured in the incident, the loss was pegged at around Rs 10 crore. The fire tenders were still working to bring the flames under control when we were going to press.

 Police said they were yet to ascertain the reason for the fire that broke out at Fiem company situated at Achettipalli on Hosur-Kelamangalam state highway near Hosur. 
 
 “We suspect that the fire might have been caused by short circuit. More than 35 fire tenders are working to douse the flames,” they said.
 
 According to Hosur fire and rescue services personnel, they were alerted about the fire at 11am. There was no causality as employees of the firm moved out as soon as they saw thick smoke emanating from the unit. They immediately informed us, they added.
 
 Initially,   district fire officer P  , assistant officer Annadurai, Hosur fire station officer Jaishankar and 20 fire fighters rushed to the spot. Bust as they failed to bring the flames under control, they sought help from Krishnagiri, Denkanikottai and Rayakottai fire service stations.
 
 “The fire quickly spread to other areas as the unit had plenty of plastic head lamps and rubber beadings in store. We are also using private tankers to bring more water to put off the fire,” said P Velu, Krishnagiri district fire officer.
 
 The exact loss could be ascertained only after a couple of days. “Going by the initial reports, the damage is pegged at around Rs 10 crore,” said a senior manager of the company.
 
 Meanwhile, the   police have launched a probe into the incident. “We suspect short circuit to be the cause of fire,”' a police official said. The police have registered a case.
 
 National convener of Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) K A Manoharan also visited the spot with his trade union members and rendered a helping hand to the fire and rescue services personnel. He said the government should deploy more fire tenders at Hosur considering the fire accidents being reported from the area and provide them foam spraying vehicle to help douse fire immediately.
 
 
