BHOPAL: A day after the death of a photographer in 'celebratory firing' at a wedding in  , police on Thursday arrested a relative of the groom on charges of murder. 

  (34) was shot at with a 12-bore gun while he was filming a wedding procession at Natraj Community Hall on Wednesday at around 10.30 pm. He was rushed to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Meena had gone on an assignment at the wedding of Chhatrapal Tiwari, son of a BHEL employee  .
 
  On Wednesday night, Govindpura police registered a case under section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of IPC against Purshottam, in which section 302 was added on Thursday. Investigation officer SI   said the accused Purshottam Tiwari is the son-in-law of Nand Kumar Tiwari's brother-in-law. Purshottam, who hails from  , works as a private security guard in Bhopal.
 
 Rai said it was found during investigations that Purshottam was the one who had shot Meena. Being a security guard, he had a licensed 12-bore gun, which he was carrying with him during the wedding procession.
 
 Sunny alias Siddharth, who accompanied Meena for the photo assignment and is the complainant in the case, told Rai that he had seen Purshottam firing from his gun. Sunny, who sustained a minor injury in his hand in the incident, even alleged that Purshottam had an argument with Meena as he wanted him to keep the focus of the camera on him while filming the baraat. However, When Meena refused to oblige, Purushottam threatened him.
 
  Meanwhile, post-mortem on Meena's body was conducted at Hamidia hospital on Thursday. After this, members of   took Meena's body outside the collectorate and staged a protest there. They demanded compensation for Meena's family and the arrest of all including Nand Kumar Tiwari, Purshottam and Chhatrapal. 
 
 Secretary of Bhopal photographers association Romi alleged,"Purshottam had an argument with Meena over videographing the wedding procession at around 8pm. Purshottam was instructing Meena to give him prominence, to which Meena refused. Purshottam had then threatened Meena of dire consequences and after a few hours he shot him down." 
 
 When police questioned Nand Kumar Tiwari, he told them that he had not invited Purshottam for the wedding. Police are investigations the cases from all angles.
 
 Meena was the sole bread winner for his family and is survived by his wife, three children and mother.
 
 
