 aka   created history on Republic Day as the country’s   of Jum’a, or the one who leads the Friday Islamic prayer. 

 Ask Jamida, one of the few modernist Muslim voices of Kerala, about her experience leading the prayer and she says, “I was at peace and didn’t feel there was anything different. The Quran does not discriminate between men and women for anything, then why should we?”
 
 The 34-year-old led the prayer at the headquarters of Quran and Sunnat Society in Cherukode in Malappuram, of which she is the state general secretary. Moreover, she also led the Khutba, the customary sermon during the prayer. Generally, the community allows ladies to lead as the Imam for the Friday prayer if they are followed only by women. However, Jamida had both men and women in the group that she led. The conservative voices against her, which even tried to attack her last month at her residence, have raised manifold but the last thing she would do is be silent, she says.
 
 “My mission is to remove gender discrimination and regressive practices of our community in the name of religion. Be it the triple talaq, child marriage, conversions or misogyny, I want to fight against them all in every way I can,” says Jamida, who holds a degree in Arabic.
 
 On what prompted her to lead the prayers on Friday, she says, “When I spoke recently against triple talaq and the conversion of Hadiya, I had to face major opposition and there was even an attempt to take my life. But I want to do things differently, in a way that benefits my community in the long run.”
 She stresses that she is someone who prioritises “humanity over religion”. “We have restrictions just for women, for instance, like covering oneself fully. Why? So that men don’t get tempted and keep their senses pure to go to heaven? It’s in the context of all this that I felt, why not lead the Friday prayer, an ‘unthinkable act’ for the conservative lot of the community,” she says, adding that when she discussed the idea with the Quran and Sunnat society, they were supportive and asked, “Why not do it the upcoming Friday itself?”
 
 Jamida and the society initially weren’t planning to announce it, but later decided to do it to avoid any issues. Her khutba was about how there is no difference between men and women in Quran, she explains, adding that she believes in encouraging questioning and scientific progress.
 
 “I have had bitter experiences when I have spoken about progressive ideals. Now I have police escort, everywhere,” she says. “I don’t fear the voices of dissent and feel that it’s natural when you attempt something like this. I am just the first step and I’m sure more women will lead prayers in the days to come.”
 A graduate in Arabic who has also worked in a school in Thiruvananthapuram a few years ago, Jamida grew up in a gender discriminatory atmosphere, right from her childhood.
 
 “It triggered the fighter in me,” she says. “I was the youngest child of a family of 13 children. We were not well-off. During special occasions, our parents will buy a small amount of meat to cook. However, the girls at home used to get only the gravy, while the men relished the dishes in all their glory. I used to wonder, why not divide the few pieces of meat equally among all, without discriminating between boys and girls? I was told it is because the men have to eventually support the family and so, that’s the ideal thing to do. Adding to that was the usual statements like girls should not talk aloud, swing their legs, sleep in certain positions and more,” recalls the mother of two.
 
 She also started questioning religious beliefs very young in her life, she recalls. “When I was around 5 or 6 years of age, I was told that if a person from another religion touches my Quran, they will lose their eye sight. One of my friends, Sunitha, grabbed it from my hand and the next day, I thought she will go blind. I ran to her house in the morning but when I found she was alright, it served as a major eye-opener for me,” she remembers.
 Jamida continued questioning the logic behind various restrictions and most of the time, the answer ended with “Don’t question the beliefs”.
 
 Jamida says that her work has only begun. “I want to teach people what Quran originally says andhelp develop a generation that logically analyses things and questions religions that ask them to chop heads off their friends from other communities for heaven. Regardless of the obstacles, it is high time we spark such thoughts and conversations among people, for a better tomorrow,” she says.
 
