MADURAI: In the wake of vandalisation of prayer halls in Madurai, state minority commissioner Bishop M Prakash visited the city and held a meeting with pastors before heading to meet Madurai district collector  .

 On Sunday, Hindu Munnani functionaries allegedly attacked a prayer hall at   where they burnt bibles and threatened pastors at three more prayer halls.
 
  The video of the incident had gone viral on social networking sites and WhatsApp. A case has been registered by Madurai district police at Alanganallur police station in this regard and various political parties and human rights organisations condemned the attack.
 
 Under these circumstances, state minority commissioner Bishop M Prakash met the pastors at Prayer Tower, a church at Bypass Road and interacted with them. Talking to reporters later, the commissioner said that their main role was to protect the rights of minorities and they had received numerous petitions from Madurai after the attack on prayer halls. That was the reason why he had come down to hear their grievances. 
 
  They also received petitions from other minorities. Based on his findings, he would suggest to the government to take action on the petitions, he said.
 
 Representatives of independent Christian churches have accompanied the commissioner when he met Madurai collector K Veera Raghava Rao and they urged the collector to take action against the functionaries who vandalised prayer halls. The minority commissioner later also met Madurai city police commissioner   and discussed the matter.
 
 Meanwhile, Koodalputhur police in Madurai city limits have filed three cases pertaining to vandalisation of prayer halls. Based on complaints filed by I Immanuvel from Anbu Nagar, S Stanilaus and M Jegatheesan from  , police have registered case against 50 unknown persons.
 
 The members of churches accompanying minority commissioner said they will stage mass demonstration if the miscreants were not arrested. A demonstration has also been planned by various organizations in Madurai city in this regard. 
 
 
