Chandigarh: A   for promotion and uptake of LED bulbs under Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL) Unnat Jyoti Affordable LEDs for All (UJALA) programme was launched in Chandigarh on Monday. Mobile vans were flagged off with an aim to promote spread awareness about government’s schemes in rural and urban areas.

 The vans were flagged off by UT finance secretary Ajoy Kumar Sinha. These will travel across the city and spread the message of adoption of advanced energy efficient appliances. Promotion will be carried out through this UJALA-station-on-wheels and each van will circle one village at least twice, within the proposed time. It is estimated that vans will be deputed on publicity and LED bulb distribution duty in Chandigarh for at least eight hours a day till May 5, 2018.
 
 On the occasion, Sinha said, “UJALA initiative plays an important role in energy sector in India. The recent adoption of LED bulbs all over the country is leading to reduction of about 38,467MWh energy annually. “He further said that these mobile vans under Gram Swaraj Abhiyan are specially designed to reach each and every village and also urban areas of Chandigarh to promote and sell UJALA LED bulbs at subsidised rates.
 
 Sinha requested EESL to promote sale, at a uniform price of Rs 50 per LED Bulb. Nitin Bhatt from EESL agreed that during the ‘Gram Swaraj Ahiyan’ till May 15 2018, the LED bulbs will be sold at Rs 50 each, in rural as well as urban areas of Chandigarh, provided each consumer submits a photocopy of Aadhaar card or electricity bill.
 
 Under EESL’s UJALA programme, domestic grid-connected users are getting LED bulbs, LED tubelights and energy-efficient BEE 5-star rated fans through designated kiosks, which are expanding across all areas of the union territory. Under UJALA, till date, over 53,000 LED tubelights and over 12,000 BEE 5-star rated energy-efficient fans have been distributed leading to annual energy savings of 23,51,885 kWh and 4,826 kWh respectively. Additionally, over 4.5 lakh LED bulbs have been distributed in Chandigarh, leading to energy savings of about 58,592MWh per year.
 
 
