Pari, October, Ghare & Baire,  , Uma, Kantho… the year is looking up for Anupam Roy. But the composer is far from happy. Apart from films that matter, he also takes interest in the way his songs are used in them and makes no bones about picking up fights if things don’t go as expected. In a relaxed chat at his south Kolkata residence, he opens up on why he is not sure of directing a film, his friends in the industry, making promotional songs and sleeping in peace at night. Excerpts:
Recently, at a midnight adda, a producer was telling his friend how ‘Anupam Roy’s music is a bigger draw’ than actors in a film. Such compliments must be coming your way every now and then…
 At times, directors tell me how they feel my songs are their films’ USP. But that’s not a universal truth; it may be true for some films.
 
 
 
 Yes. Songs can give a push, but if the film is bad, it will sink with the songs.
 
 
 Family Album, which was my first work with  , remains a favourite. All the five songs in that film are very close to my heart. But the film released around the same time as another successful venture. Family Album did not work and the songs went unnoticed. So, I really want to do something again with those songs. The rights are with the producer and I want to either record them for an album or use them differently in another film.
 
 
 
 Mainak’s Ghare & Baire has already released. Then there’s Kaushik Ganguly’s Drishtikone and Srijit Mukherji’s Uma. In   and Shiboprosad Mukherjee’s Kantho, I have two songs… Meanwhile, I worked in two Hindi films, Prosit Roy’s Pari and Shoojit Sircar’s October.
 
 
 
 No, there’s no pressure of competition. There’s no one else in the domain where I work. I write songs, put them to tune and often sing them. So, there is no direct competition as a singer-composer-lyricist, but there are many doing good work in individual departments. But then, the parameters of good work keep changing. I am in this industry for the past eight years and have been compared to several others. Almost all the directors are my clients, they have different tastes in music and they all want their songs to become hits. My job is to cater to them and satisfy their tastes while I reach out to the masses.
 
 
 
 Everyone has an ear for music. Srijit, for example, banks on my existing songs. He tries to use them in the context of his films. I obviously make a few songs for the film. Srijit has more access to my songs as he knows me for very long. After Shibuda started listening to my songs, he also started liking them. He has locked a couple of songs for his upcoming films. He asks me to make new songs for his movies. In Praktan, for example, there was an old song, Tumi jaake bhalobasho, and a new one, Kolkata. It’s not that Kaushikda and I have a long work association; the first full-fledged film we did is yet to release — Dhumketu. After that, we came together in Drishtikone. He ‘shopped’ from my existing songs and it worked for the film. Mainak too likes to listen to my old songs and try to fit those in; he likes urban pop songs and it’s very up my street. Pratim (D Gupta) is particular about music; reason, I like working with him. If a film has no songs, I can appreciate it, but I love the ones with songs.
 
 
 
 Right now, I have around 420 songs and like the way the universe is expanding, my songs too are growing in numbers.
 
 
 
 Yes, you need to follow the brief and that confines you to a certain space and situation. Keeping those constraints in mind, one still needs to be different. I find it difficult, but it’s a matter of practice. I am more comfortable making film songs now than I was in 2010. See, I first make the tune and then add the lyrics. For October, Shoojitda wanted to experiment; he first sent me the lyrics and I later composed the tune. I am open to more such experiments.
 
 
 
 The films I work in are not sound-dependent. I worked in Pink but the songs were not in the film; now rarely do songs become popular without the film. In October again, the film doesn’t have the songs I composed. In Pari too, my music did not make much of a difference. If I get better scope, I can deliver one more Piku, or something better. But working with Shoojitda is an experience in itself. He is an amazing man and has shown great courage in bringing a bouquet of films that is not necessarily box-office oriented, that too in a competitive market like Mumbai. He is bound to earn a lot of respect. He always gives me the freedom to work on a score.
 
 
 
 The trend has come from Mumbai, and was started with a commercial perspective, as directors now want all their songs to be hits. For that, they can’t rely entirely on a musician. The flipside to that is that often, a musician is misunderstood because of this trend. I don’t want to be appreciated or ridiculed for another man’s work in the same film. Personally, I like to take full ownership of an album. In Mumbai, I don’t have that say. The only films for which I have entirely composed were Piku, Pari and Dear Maya; the last failed miserably. But here, I request directors to consider me for the full film. That way, I can also offer a bouquet of songs to my listeners.
 
 
 
 Love songs get popular easily. I personally like to document emotions and maybe people find a certain amount of freshness in my songs and like them. But some songs are real and others aren’t. Tumi jaake bhalobasho was composed in a real situation, whereas Lokkhiti is an unreal song. I kept thinking what could make a person sad, had the tune in mind and came up with the song. It had the ingredients to become popular.
 
 
 
 It’s a fact that emotions get a bit numb after marriage, but then people become more mature. Also, the definition of love evolves. I am constantly thinking about people’s emotions. I don’t feel constrained; also, I can now discuss everything with a partner.
 
 
 
 When Kaushikda first came home, I sang Amar dukkho gulo kachhimer moto. The song was locked and then I rendered Lokkhiti and he said, ‘na’. I was a bit sad, but knew there would be takers. After the shoot, he again came as there was need for a song. That’s when I took the risk, thinking maybe he had missed it at the first go, and sang it again. This time he said, ‘Bah, ei gaan tai toh khunjchhi’. You need to convince people about the power of a song; often I fail to do that. Also, I wanted to deliver different kinds of songs for the film, but the mood of all his songs was the same — melancholic. When I later saw parts of the film, I realised the songs were a perfect fit.
 
 
 
 Whatever happens, happens for good. I faced a lot more rejections in Mumbai. I held meetings there, was confirmed for projects and then, for seven-eight days there would be no call. On the ninth day, I would come to know that I was nowhere in the scene. In Bengal, no one rejected me after confirming me. It had happened only once and later the director apologised profusely, saying he was not calling the shots.
 
 
 
 It’s not about pride. Also, it’s not just about money. See, it’s a challenge. At home, in my space, I am not making songs on mishti, but if a client comes to me and asks me to make a song for them, then it’s a challenge for me. To me, it’s important if I am being able to satisfy the client or not. Acceptance gives me a kick. At the same time, I’m sure the employees of these sweet shops curse me for having to listen to one song every day (laughs).
 
 
 
 Upalda (Sengupta) is a dear friend and I am very close to Joyda (Sarkar); we go on holidays together. Rajada (Narayan Deb) was of immense help in my initial days when I knew nothing about music arrangement and we are always in touch. The other person I bond well with is Prabuddhada (Banerjee). It’s not that Debuda (Debajyoti Mishra) and I indulge in adda often, but we have lovely conversations when we meet at parties. I share a good rapport with Savvy as well.
 
 
 
 I won’t do something just because others are doing it. I still have a lot to explore in music. Sometimes, I too think of making films, but it’s a long process. I am a lone worker and films are a collaborative effort. So I don’t know if it will ever suit me. If I have a story that I want to tell, I will make a film. Also, if I ever get frustrated with the way my songs are pictured in films, I will make one. I am always fighting with directors, but it’s never serious.
 
 
 
 I used to fight a lot with him before. I was very stubborn before and he is still very obstinate; there has been no change in that. I also have a war of words with Shibuda. While working in Drishtikone, I also fought with Kaushikda and he actually had to say, ‘Please have some faith in me’. I came back watching Ghare & Baire and fought with Mainak as he didn’t retain the full songs. I am entitled to an opinion, and I make myself heard.
 
 
 
 I was in touch with the makers of Ghare & Baire, and asked how it fared. I also have this conversation with Shibuda often. I have a selfish intention and look at it this way: if a film is running, it means my songs are reaching out to an audience. When a film doesn’t run, I feel sad. Also, if a project is successful, the director is likely to make more films. I always pray for the success of all my films.
 
 
 
 He has a car and when he used to reverse it, it would make an annoying noise. He usually returns home very late, after 1.30 am, and that noise told me that he was back. After bearing it for long, I asked him to mute the sound. He said he didn’t know how. Then I searched online and sent him a link. To that, he replied, “This is for the UK model, send me a link for the Indian car’. Thankfully, I was not the only one who was disturbed. Another old lady complained about the same. We residents have a WhatsApp group and took a chance and messaged him on that. The next day, a mechanic was called and the problem was fixed. Now we sleep in peace (smiles).
 
