HYDERABAD : There has been a steep increase in parents seeking the help of psychiatrists, expressing concern over their children's phone addiction.

 According to a city-based psychiatrist, in the past two years, the number of cases of phone addiction has increased nearly five times. “We have observed a steep increase in mobile addiction. Most people seeking help are parents of teenagers,” said Dr Praveen Kumar, consultant psychologist in city Apollo Hospital. He said they were also getting cases related to phone overuse from young adults, including newly married couples.
 
 Doctors say that children who are addicted to the smartphone and virtual world, find it difficult to engage with the real world. “In such cases, the ability to focus is  ," Kumar said.
 
 Psychiatrists blame parents for giving their children easy access to cell phones and smartphones at a very young age. “This   the human relationship. The direct interaction between the two persons has been replaced by mobiles. People are now comfortable talking over phone or sending an SMS. Here no one can observe their reaction,” said professor   of University of Hyderabad’s Centre for health psychology.
 
 Experts claim that electronic device addiction can destroy a large part of children's brain cells. “Children are very active and energetic by nature and physical activities channels the energy. However, when achild stays on screen for a long time, the energy gets pent up and manifests itself in violent and aggressive behaviour,” said the professor.
 
 The professor said that several parents approach them after observing behavioural change among their  . Most of the issues are linked to mobile phone addiction.
 
 Psychiatrists say children should have access to phones only after attaining the age of 16 and above. “When children even below the age of six throw tantrums while eating food, parents give them smartphones. This is an encouragement to a bad habit. Children should be given access to a phone after they have minimum understanding of what is right and wrong, like when they are 16 years or above. Smartphone should be given after 18 years," said Dr Praveen.
 
