The Services team playing in the 66th edition of Senior National   Championship in Kozhikode is a ‘mini Kerala’ team. Of the 15-member-strong Services squad, which includes support staff, seven members, including five players, are from the state. It’s not that any of them didn’t want to play for Kerala, but joining Services was the best way to wriggle out of the dire straits their families were in.

 
 Saintison K C, the Services’ volleyball team trainer, was the youngest in a family of five children. His father K J Chacko had a small tea shop at Pachani, Kannur, and Chacko used to struggle to make both ends meet. Saintison was into athletics and volleyball during his school days and joining GV Raja Sports School in Thiruvananthapuram opened the doors of sports to him. The admission helped Saintison escape the struggles his family endured and his skills in volleyball saw him joining Madras Engineer Group (MEG) in 1994. “Those days were tough. We couldn’t even dream of taking a bicycle for rent then. Now, I own a decent house, car and many things changed in the past 24 years,” Saintison who shifted his focus to triple jump in the second year of his MEG life, reveals. He has represented Services in three national games in triple jump and won South Asian Games bronze medal in 2004 in Islamabad. After ending his career, Saintison became a trainer and has been giving physical training for the Services team for the past five years.
 
 The presence of Keralites - Vijesh Govindan, Sabid M V, Manu K Kurien and   – in the squad has ensured Services a huge ground support in Kozhikode. Sivarajan of Marthandam, Tamil Nadu, who calls himself 90% ‘Malayali’ and 10% ‘Tamizhan’ shows the impact Kerala players have on the Services side.
 
 Former Services player and now team’s assistant coach  , who joined Indian Navy in 1991, says early days of his training were quite rigorous. “Nowadays, these kids are very lucky. They don’t have to face tough training at all. They are joining Army, Air Force as volleyball players and we are giving them the best facilities in the world to polish their skills. Their duty is to play hard and harder,” Sheejith, a native of Puthuppanam, Vadakara, says.
 
 The youngest in the team, 21-year-old   Abdul Salam, comes from a lowincome family. His father was a daily wage labourer at   but was keen to promote his son’s volleyball skills at any cost. A sailor with the Navy, Niyas hopes to reach more heights through volleyball. “Volleyball gave me everything. Navy takes great care of us. Life was not like this before joining Navy in 2016. Now I feel secure,” Niyas says.
 
 Vijesh Govindan, a late entrant into the game who started playing volleyball when he was 20, had no big dreams in his life. He was part of local club AKG, Kottakunnu, and used to go for any daily wage work in those days. But after becoming a local star, there was no looking back for the 31-year-old havildar. “I was quite unsure about my future. There was no steady income, no financial security but joining Indian Army changed everything. If I didn’t play volleyball, I wouldn’t have become what I am today,” he says.
 
 Kiran Raj of Kodungallur was a weak student and his parents, especially his mother, used to worry a lot about his future. He used to play volleyball with seniors but was hesitant to take up the game seriously. Somehow e made it to Dronacharyawardee G E Sridharan’s academy in Coimbatore and that moulded his career in the right direction.
 
 Kiran joined Navy when he was just 19 in 2014. Kiran was not even in the reserve list in his first year but his hard work and commitment saw ext year’s World Military Games held in South Korea. “People in Kodungallur treat me with more respect now. I am yet to reach my goals but I get motivated when I see the respect people give me back home,” says Kiran.
 
 In many Malayalam films, a person retired from military is usually portrayed in a lighter vein, often narrating the unending battles he fought against enemies at the borders. The comic flavour of the film character is the USP to entertain people but for these players, Services is all about grit, determination and hard work. And it is playing for Services that has made them winners in their life.
 
