THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: As the   turns intense, the   division of Kerala   ( ) has decided to shut all public water taps to prevent misuse of  . It has also taken steps to ensure water availability in the Vamanapuram river by raising the height of the check dam at Poovanpara. 

 Attingal division executive engineer said that   were often misused for various non-drinking purposes such as cleaning of vehicles. “The line leading to the public taps will be closed during summer so as to prevent misuse,” he said. 
 
 The Thiruvananthapuram division of KWA too has decided to intensify the operations of theft detection squads to check  . KWA superintending engineer Leena Kumari said that all sub-divisions had been asked to take appropriate steps to ensure availability of water in their area. 
 
 The Attingal–Varkala areas have been facing   due to depleting level of water in Vamanapuram river. The KWA has constructed a temporary facility above the   at Poovanpara, which has a height of 2.7 metres. The additional work has raised the height to 3.4m. Earlier, there were complaints that the existing bund was not enough to save water for summer. Vamanapuram is the only major river in the district which lacks a dam. 
 
 KWA executive engineer of Attingal Sunil S said that pumping in all areas are normal after a short period of crisis. “If we get summer rains, situation will be normal in the coming months too. We have taken measures by constructing a temporary structure to raise height of the bund. Also, we are planning to construct another bund across the river at Karette where another water supply project is located,” he said. 
 
 The Attingal division has stopped giving new water connections in view of the crisis situation. It has constituted a squad to check cases such a theft or misuse of water. 
 
 The Thiruvananthapuram division already has an anti-theft squad. KWA sources said that the service of squad will be made 24x7 as part of intensifying the drive during summer. Currently, the squad has only one vehicle to conduct inspection. KWA is planning to include more staff or to buy one more vehicle to extend the squad’s activity to night. 
 
 Attingal and Thiruvananthapuram divisions are planning a series of programmes to make people aware of the misuse of water. tnn
 
 
