BATHINDA: WWE wrestler Great Khali’s biography ghostwriter has dragged him to court, accusing him of violating the agreement over sharing the rights of autobiography. According to the written agreement made in 2015, Vinit  , who assisted the professional wrestler of World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) fame   alias Great Khali as co-author of his autobiography, he (Bansal) was to get 30% share from the income in the form of royalty.

 The court of additional civil judge (senior division) in   took up the matter for hearing on February 21 and has issued notice to Khali for April 2.
 
 The contract was made for autobiography tentatively named ‘My Journey-My Way’ but the name was changed to ‘The man who became Khali’. Bansal was to get 30% share from the income in the form of royalty or any other form such as electronic or media rights or any other rights generated from autobiography in India or worldwide. He has accused Khali of selling the rights of the autobiography for making a film over it without informing him.
 
 Khali, however, has denied violating the agreement and claims that Bansal owes him money from sales of autobiography. 
 
 Bansal, who is a cashier at a bank in Gidderbaha, was working at the NRI Services cell of SBI in   branch, where Khali had an account. He told TOI, “In April 2015, when I was working in Jalandhar, Khali offered me to become a co-author in his autobiography. We made an agreement in writing, wherein it was mentioned that I will get 30% share from any income generated through royalty or any kind of electronic or media rights or any other rights generated from autobiography. I took two months leave from my work and completed the autobiography with Dalip Singh Rana as ‘The man who became Khali’. Now I get to know that Khali has sold the rights to a media organization for making a film on his autobiography. Though I had got my 30% share from sales of autobiography, I have been kept in the dark about selling rights for film. I sent him a legal notice on November 14, 2017 but did not get any response from him and have now approached the court”. 
 
 Khali, when contacted, said, “I have not violated the agreement. I have not sold any rights. Instead Bansal owes me money from sales of autobiography. I do not know why he has gone to court but I have not got any notice till now and will reply to the notice if and when I get it.” 
 
 
