COIMBATORE: As an intense battle unfolds at the top of the table to win the  , there is an equally intriguing jostle taking place at the bottom to avoid relegation. With new entrants   (ninth) and   (eighth) exempt from the drop, it’s a scrap between   (CCFC) and   – who face each other at Nehru Stadium here on Saturday. Only one team will eventually go down, but all of them seem to be on tenterhooks at the moment.

 
 Churchill head coach   summed up the uncertainty best when he said in his pre-match address: “Relegation is a scary thing. It results in a lot of effort taken through the season going down the drain. It is what it is. At the start of the season, everyone knew that one team would be relegated. With Arrows and Gokulam exempt, I feel we, CCFC along with Shillong Lajong and Aizawl FC, are in danger.”
 
 CCFC, though, seem to be in maximum trouble. With 13 points from 15 matches, the hosts are left needing a win in at least two of their remaining three matches and hoping other results go in their favour. In the season so far, they have played out no less than seven draws including one in each of their last four matches. The side’s Achilles heel seems to be a lack of incisiveness in front of goal, with French striker Jean-Michel Joachim being the main culprit in this regard.
 
 During their training session on Friday, too, it was noticeable how the likes of Joachim failed to put crosses into the back of the net under minimal pressure even as coach V Soundararajan looked on in disgust. Such profligacy has left Soundararajan, who returned from his annual trip to Sabarimala on Thursday night, keeping his fingers crossed in hope.
 
 What the hosts are banking on, according to the CCFC coach, are two factors. They are hoping that Churchill’s arduous travel from Imphal where they lost to NEROCA on Wednesday leaves them jaded. Secondly, they aim to capitalise on the “psychological edge” gained from their 2-0 win over Churchill earlier in the season.
 
 “Churchill’s players must be tired. They have had a lot of travelling and we need to take advantage of it. I believe we also hold a psychological edge after our win in the first leg there,” noted Soundararajan, who has a full squad to choose from.
 
 As Fernandes pointed out, though, the Goan side has come a long way since then. They have had a sizeable overhaul amongst the foreign contingent in particular including the addition of Ivorian striker Mechac Koffi.
 
 “There has been a major transformation in the team with new, quality signings. One of the first new players to arrive was Koffi. He has contributed a lot with his four goals. He was troubled by a slight muscle injury for a while, but continued playing. We rested him for the last match because we didn’t want to risk it further. If he had been fine throughout, he would have had even more impact.”
 
 
