KOCHI: Use of poor quality electrical material, unprofessional wiring and unsafe practices followed while handling household appliances are contributing to fatalities caused by electric shock, according to the  . This is despite several campaigns and safety awareness programmes by the   ( ).

 
 
 
 Data from Electrical Inspectorate shows that 22 persons were electrocuted in 53 accidents in   district alone in 2017. Of this only five were employees of KSEB, working in a professionally hazardous environment.
 
 
 “If KSEB insulates all the 11KV and LT lines, almost all the accidents from their installations can be avoided,” said  , deputy chief electrical inspector, Ernakulam.
 
 
 Besides the fatal accidents, 26 people suffered burns and injuries. Five animals were also electrocuted. Improper wiring done by unlicensed electricians and usage of low quality material for wiring are the common causes of domestic accidents.
 
 
 “Low-quality wiring done by persons without licence and usage of low quality material are major reasons for accidents inside households. Most houses lack Earth Leaking Circuit Breaking (ELCB) facility. If there is ELCB, the power supply would automatically be cut off in case of a short circuit,” he said.
 
 
 Of the 22 deaths,12 occurred in households because of faulty wiring or devices. “A woman from Kochi died after getting electric shock from washing machine. Though she had switched off the machine before retrieving the washed dresses, she was electrocuted because of faulty wiring. Had there been ELCB, the supply would have automatically been cut off,” said M M Mini, electrical inspector.
 
 
 Shock from 11 KV and low-tension (LT) lines constitute more than 90% of accidents in KSEB’s electrical installations. “Lack of adequate clearance from electric lines while constructing building would lead to accidents. People also use metal rods to pluck jackfruit or mango and this could lead to electrocution. We are conducting awareness programmes to educate lay persons. We even use the traditional artforms like   for the purpose,” Sagar said.
 
 
 Animals get electric shock from uninsulated electric lines of KSEB. “Two months ago, an elephant was electrocuted as it got in touch with an extra high-tension (EHT) line of KSEB passing through   forest area. People tether cattle to KSEB poles on roadside leading to accidents,” Sagar said.
 
 
 The electrical inspectorate has given a recommendation to the KSEB for imparting training for electricians who wire households and shops. “They can be trained at KSEB’s training centre in Thiruvananthapuram. This will help increase the safety,” Sagar said.
 
 
 Across Kerala, 208 lay persons were electrocuted in 2017. KSEB employees or contract labourers working with the board who were electrocuted would come up to 20. With several enterprises, mostly high-tension consumers, installing generators without authorization, KSEB is facing another hazard. Even if transformers that provide electricity to a distribution line is switched off, power from generators used by HT consumers would flow in reverse to the KSEB line. This has resulted in mishaps in the recent past, though there were no deaths.
 
