AHMEDABAD: “If you want to run a school in  , you must know  .” This is how district primary education officer (DPEO) Mahesh   responded to a request from an educator to speak in Hindi, on Friday.

 Attending to queries from principals and trustees of schools affiliated with the Central Board of Secondary Education at   (Shilaj) to clarify the fee regulation issue, Mehta said, “I can speak in English also, but I will prefer to speak Gujarati.” The concerned principal was given the silent treatment when she said, “Sir, I am asking you to communicate in the national language.”
 
 Most of those attending faced the same problem as most of the communication and presentation slides were in Gujarati. They were of the view that if all communication was in the regional language (Gujarati), it should have been specified in the invitation that those with knowledge of Gujarati should attend the meet.
 
 More than 300 school heads were shown slides explaining the process of presenting an application to the fee regulation committee. The school heads were told to be patient and wait if fees were not paid by students. “You have waited till now, please wait more,” Mehta said at the meeting.
 
 Mehta said he had received complains of schools taking cheques towards fees in advance from parents and the matter was discussed with the schools subsequently. The matter is with the apex court and according to its directives, no action can be taken against school managements. He also indicated that the fee committee will announce provisional fee amounts for the short term.
 
 One of those attending said, “Schools have been asked to submit applications for up to class VIII to the DPEO and for senior classes to the DEO office. Clarity on the FRC Act was a total miss.”
 
 Mahesh Mehta later said that a meeting was held and the issue of English and Gujarati was raised. “We made it clear that if they want to run a school in Gujarat, they have learn the Gujarati language which is the main language in Gujarat,” he said.
 
 
