SHIMLA: People who gave land for construction of Bhakra dam in the 1960s are facing the threat of eviction with authorities taking a decision to remove their constructions in   town following court orders. They are now being termed as encroachers of government land. 

 Sources said when the area was submerged after release of water, people hastily set up structures anywhere they could, for which they are now being termed as encroachers.
 
 Taking up the issue in the state assembly in the ongoing budget session,   from Naina Devi, Ram Lal   said the area was submerged for the first time in 1962 and people did not want to vacate their houses. 
 
 To motivate oustees to make new constructions, the then government announced a Rs 500 reward to those who would establish structures first. At this, people started construction at places on the directions of the patwari. According to him, the location of the plots and site of construction were different. 
 
 Thakur said 110 families were displaced from   assembly constituency of Una district, 256 villages were displaced from Bilaspur district and five villages were displaced from Mandi district for construction of the dam.
 
 He claimed that the encroachment made in Bilaspur was need-based but they are getting notices every day. “Now, the high court set a time frame and has set March 28 as the deadline. What will happen after that?” he asked.
 
  said people who gave their land for construction of the dam and started living in Bilaspur are facing a serious problem. Advocating regularisation of land, he suggested correction of revenue entry as a means to do this. He also demanded formation of a high-power committee to resolve the issue. 
 
 Irrigation and public health minister Mahender Singh Thakur, in his reply, said everybody wants a solution to the problem but the matter is pending in court. He said the previous   government framed a policy, which has been stayed by the high court. He also said the government would have to wait for the court verdict. 
 
 Blaming the Congress, he said of the last 70 years, Congress remained in power for 55 but could not solve the issue. “Congress party has a special role in delaying the matter,” he alleged.
 
 
