Centuries ago, three wise men had set out in search of the prophesised Messiah guided by a mysterious and luminous star that persisted in the western heavens. Till date, Christians worldwide celebrate Epiphany to mark the three wise men’s visit to Infant Jesus.

 “Although in common parlance people refer to the celebration as the feast of the three kings, as per the ( ) liturgy, it is the feast of the Epiphany of the Lord or the solemnity of the self-manifestation of Jesus, wherein Jesus reveals Himself as to who He is,” says parish priest of the St Thomas Church,  , Fr Jean Ruby da Cruz Fernandes.
 
 In some countries the feast of the   is observed on January 6, which is 12 days after Christmas, and it marks not only the end of the Christmas, but also the start of the Carnival season.
 
 In Goa, there is a unique re-enactment of the journey the three magi undertook, bearing with them the precious gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh for the new born saviour.   as a symbol of Jesus’ kingship on earth, Incense to acknowledge his prophetic mission and myrrh to depict his priestly mission, says Fr Fernandes
 “Three children in the age group eight to 14 years, who have received the sacrament of Holy Communion, are dressed up as ‘kings’,” says Fr Fernandes, adding that the choosing of the children for the roles of the three wise men is left up to the local comunidade and is a matter of honour for their families.
 
 One privileged child is picked from each of the villages of  , Arrossim and Cansaulim.
 
 Nobody is aware as to when this manner of celebration of this oldest of Christian feasts began in Cansaulim. Remedios Alcasoas, a resident of Cuelim, says all he knows is that the children must be ‘gauncars’ and must hail from the specified ‘vangodds’ in their village.
 
 Arrossim and Cansaulim have 15 vangodds each while the smaller village of Cuelim has seven.
 
 The symbolic journey is undertaken on horseback for which horses are specially procured from Kolhapur. Each little ‘king’ sets out from his home for the miraculous Chapel of Our Lady of Remedios situated on the Cansaulim monte.
 
 “Many devotees vouch that their ‘angovnn’ (vows) have been fulfilled here. Hence, it is also considered to be a place of pilgrimage with some devotees even flying from abroad. Others come walking in the early morning hours. They avoid climbing the stairs and opt for the steep climb instead as a form of penance,” said Fr Fernandes, about the chapel on the hill that lore says is haunted. Fr Fernandes and Alcasoas though are quick to rubbish any stories of hauntings.
 
 “The kids on the feast day gather at the base of the monte by 9am before proceeding to the chapel. After mass, they part ways once again to travel to the St Thomas Church, after which they return to their respective homes where a party will have been organised,” says Alcasoas.
 
 The entire journey to the chapel and back home, some six-seven kilometres, takes approximately one-and-a-half hours with halts in between, as along the way, some devotees seek to wear the gold crowns worn by the children.
 
 Recreation of this Biblical event is also seen at   and Chandor.
 
