HUBBALLI: Taking a dig at Prime Minister   for claiming to be a ‘Kannadiga’, chief minister   on Tuesday wondered how could a man who refused to resolve Mahadayi issue and rejected the state’s plea for a separate flag become a Kannadiga.

 
 Campaigning for   candidates in Naragund and Ron, the epicentres of Mahadayi agitation, Siddaramaiah said Modi did not utter a word when he (the CM) led a delegation to him seeking his intervention in Mahadayi water dispute. He also turned down the state’s request for farm loan waiver.
 
 
 
 
 “The same man is now claiming that he is a Kannadiga. Stop this drama. You are anti-Kannada and anti-Karnataka,” Siddaramaiah said, alleging that Modi did not allow Kannada language in central government offices.
 
 Reacting to the PM’s ‘naamdaar kaamdaar’ jibe, Siddaramaiah said: “He should be saying Kaam ki Baat, not Maan ki Baat. Having 56-inch chest is not enough. One should have a heart to respond to the poor,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 Referring to Modi’s criticism of his decision to contest from two constituencies, the CM sought to know why Modi chose to contest from two Lok Sabha seats. “Did the fear of losing drive you to Varanasi, Modiji,” he asked.
 
 The CM also alleged that PM Modi skipped his proposed visit to Chamarajanagar fearing losing power and visited only Santhemarahalli. Yeddyurappa also did not visit Chamarajanagar when he was the CM. “But I have completed my tenure only because I visited the town eight times,” he claimed.
 
 On Modi praising JD(S) president H D  , Siddaramaiah said this has proved that JD(S) and   have a secret pact. “Modi would always criticize Deve Gowda. What is the reason for this turn around,” he asked.
 
 On Modi’s call to wage a war against corruption, Siddaramaiah said all BJP leaders, who went to jail on various charges in 2008, have returned to the party fold and the BJP central leadership is silent on this only to win   elections. People should reject them, he said.
 
 
 
 The Congress on Tuesday alleged that Modi had downsized his poll campaign in the state to merely five days as he feared defeat for the BJP in the May 12 polls. Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala sought to know if an imminent defeat had forced Modi to restrict his campaign to merely five days.
 
