PATIALA: The National Investigation Agency ( ) on Thursday sought a 90-day extension to file charges against the four main accused in the   targeted killings case. The investigative body wants time to file charges against Jagtar Singh   alias Jaggi, Taljit Singh alias Jimmy, Hardeep Singh alias Shera alias   and Ramandeep Singh alias Bagga alias Canadian.

 The NIA moved an application for extension of the stipulated period of filing charges from 90 days to 180 days before the special NIA court at  . The judge has issued a notice and fixed February 12 as the next date of hearing, Jaspal Singh Manjhpur, the defence counsel of the British national Johal, said.
 
 The NIA move ensures that the four accused will not get bail on technical ground that no charges were filed against them at the end of their 90-day detention period, according to a legal expert.
 
 Seeking three more months to file charges, the agency claimed that its investigation was spread across nations and it needed more time to collect relevant evidence through diplomatic channels.
 
 
 
 
 NIA counsel HS Oberoi and Surinder Singh told judge Anshul Berry: “Given the enormity of the investigation, the agency needs an extension to file the charges in the cases registered against the four men. The scope and breadth of the conspiracy in terms of the number of people involved and their geographical spread has necessitated a long-winding investigation, which cannot be completed within the stipulated 90 days.” The offences, according to the counsel, have both national and international ramifications, including suspected involvement of some terrorist groups. Some of the accused are from different states in India and others have different nationalities, they said.
 
 “Voluminous data has been retrieved from the mobile phones and other electronic devices of the accused. The facts related to the retrieved data need to be verified through field investigations. The verification and the investigation of the points related to the retrieved data is in progress and more time is required to complete this aspect of the investigation,” the NIA plea said.
 
 The agency said the targeted killings were planned by the accused in foreign countries like Pakistan, Britain and Italy and in this regard, pieces of evidence were required to be collected about their activities on foreign shores through diplomatic channels. Preparation and processing of these documents required considerable time, it added. The investigation conducted so far has revealed that funds were provided to the accused from foreign countries, said the NIA and added that it needed more time to investigate this money trail.
 
 
