Thiruvananthapuram: The state government will implement   estimated at Rs 10 crore in a time bound manner, said minister for devaswom and co-operation Kadakampally Surendran in a review meeting held here on Wednesday. The minister said that the master plan for the project has been completed.

 The project envisages many components like construction of ‘annadana mandapam’, which can accommodate 1,250 people and a resting place for 1,000 devotees. A modern kitchen will also be built adjacent to the annadana mandapam. The mandapam will be designed as a multipurpose venture. Three modern steel bridges will be built across Killiyaar. 
 
 A six-metre-wide footpath will also be constructed. Footpaths will be constructed as part of evacuation plan in case of emergencies during  . The minister said that master plan can be implemented without acquiring land. The state government is keen on completing the works within deadlines. The minister said that the construction activities proposed in places under temple administration will be expedited once NOC is obtained from   trust. 
 
 The government had earlier revised the decision to implement Attukal master plan prepared by Thiruvananthapuram development authority. The project had often figured in state budgets but never got materialized. As per TRIDA plan, development of 32 wards around Attukal tTemple was planned, which had included construction of roads, improvement of infrastructure and other components.
 
 The latest plan has been cut short to Rs 10 crore, involving 3 neighbouring wards. Attukal ward councillor R C Beena said that TRIDA plan for Attukal was dropped owing to its non-feasibility. “The 10-crore project being planned is included in the first phase. The estimate is expected to be prepared by March,'' said R C Beena. The master plan has been prepared by a city-based architecture firm. 
 
 Meanwhile the future of the project would depend upon consent from temple trust as the project is planned on property of the temple.
 
 
