Madurai: In a landmark move, American College, Madurai, has signed an agreement with St Clair College of Canada, opening up a window for students to do a part of their course in the northAmerican country.

 American College principal M Davamani Christober and its satellite campus director A Martin David signed the Memorandum of Understanding ( ) with the officials at St Clair College Canada at Windsor in Canada on Friday.
 
 As per the MoU, American college and Clair college of Applied Arts & Technology have agreed to work together to foster their collaborative relationship. It is understood that this partnership between two institutions will be of equal and mutual benefit to both institutions and benefit their students, faculty and administrative personnel.
 
 The academic programmes identified for collaboration are American college’s business administration and computer system programmes and St Clair college’s Business and computer system networking programmes.
 
 The students will complete first year at the American college and pursue second, third and fourth years at St Clair College, Canada. Upon achieving all the academic requirements, students who complete the course requirements of the entire programme will be eligible to receive the Ontario college diploma issued by St Clair College, Canada.
 
 Minimum academic admission criteria will be a band score of six in Ielts when applying for admission into the second year study at the St Clair college. Ron Seguin, vice-president of international relations, training and development, Clair college, was present at the function.
 
 American college principal said that MoU would help students pursue their higher education and find suitable career openings in Canada. A center for higher education and job opportunities has been developed in Canada for the benefit of students of the American college and the people of Tamil Nadu. He said that the curriculum of the business administration and computer studies remain almost the same in both the colleges.
 
 
