HYDERABAD: On Saturday, the first day of operations of higher frequency and speedier services of the Hyderabad   Rail (HMR), 160 additional services were run, leading to a marginal increase in the total number of passengers hopping on to the Metro for a ride, said   officials.

 According to   Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director N V S Reddy, as many as 540 train services were run in both directions on the first day of the introduction of higher frequency, which works out to 270 services in either direction. Prior to ramping up the frequency, 380 services were being run by HMRL authorities in both the directions.
 
 
 HMR’s first train service with ramped up frequency and speed was inaugurated on Saturday morning by Lakshmi Anusha, a lady train operator working with HMRL, along with Anil Kumar Saini, COO, L&T Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited (LTMRHL) and  , managing director,  , which operates the Hyderabad Metro services.
 
 With effect from 6am on Saturday, HMR started running trains every seven minutes during peak hours and every eight minutes during non-peak hours on the 30-km-long Miyapur-Ameerpet-Nagole metro corridor.
 
 Vicky, who boarded the train at the   Metro station, was the first passenger to ride the trains after frequency and speeds were increased and was plied with sweets by metro rail authorities.
 
 “Metro is pollution and noise-free, especially after a tough day at the office. It will change the landscape of Hyderabad,” Vicky said.
 
 While more than 2 lakh passengers travelled on the metro on the first day its commercial operations launched in November end 2017, in the months following the launch, the service, which runs in the Miyapur-Ameerpet-Nagole corridor, has seen an average daily ridership of 50,000 to 60,000 passengers, according to officials.
 
 Meanwhile, the higher frequency will now enable passengers to travel between the   stadium and Secunderabad in 11minutes flat, Uppal stadium to Ameerpet station in 28 minutes and between Uppal stadium and   in 47 minutes, LTHMRL tweeted on Saturday.
 
