KOLKATA: In a bid to pre-empt a huge number of seats in the state’s private   colleges from going vacant — as is the trend over the past few years — the nodal university of all private engineering colleges has asked its affiliates to upload videos showcasing their campuses “for greater transparency and to earn students’ trust”. 

 Around 44% of the 34,424 seats in engineering colleges in   went a-begging last year, and officials fear more than a third of the seats may remain unfilled this year too despite several steps being taken to reverse the trend.
 
 One such desperate step was to release the names of more than a lakh “successful” Bengal JEE candidates — virtually all the students who sat for the examination barring the few who managed to score zero. But officials still feel that lack of infrastructure at the private engineering campuses may force thousands of students to look elsewhere for a seat.
 
 “We have asked all private engineering colleges to prepare digital self-assessment reports and upload videos capturing their existing infrastructure, manpower and facilities like playground, laboratories, classrooms, hostels, etc within May 31. The video must incorporate introductions of all HODs and the principal. The colleges may be subject to surprise inspections after uploading the videos,” said VC of Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Technology University, Saikat Maitra. 
 
 Technical education experts feel a major reason for students giving engineering seats in the state a miss is because the syllabus has failed to keep up with changing times, making them unemployable.
 
 “The skill set required is undergoing a massive change with the emergence of subjects like artificial intelligence, big data, cyber security, data analytics, virtual reality and augmented reality. Besides, newer professions and choices have opened up. Students of average and above average merit have more options now than pursuing traditional engineering or medical,” said   construction engineering teacher Partha Pratim Biswas. 
 
 Maitra, too, agreed that there was a need to make the engineering syllabus in the state more cutting-edge. 
 
 “Artificial intelligence, augmented reality, digital learning etc are new fields that need to blend with the existing curriculum for development of a new set of professionals catering to the needs of the industry. There is a transition in our existing program. Out students are turning unemployable without the university and regulatory bodies adopting new methodologies. With advent of robotics in the manufacturing industry, those with traditional and orthodox knowledge and skills are becoming redundant. So, placements have been jolted,” he added, explaining why traditional engineering courses were losing their sheen. 
 
 State higher education department officials also claimed that the expensive economic model of many private colleges made the entire system unsustainable. 
 
 
