JAIPUR: State education department has extended the transport voucher scheme for students of primary and upper primary government schools for the academic session 2018-19. The extension means that students can get the travel   if their school in one kilometre (for primary classes) and two kilometre (for secondary classes) away from the home. The transport vouchers are be availed on state and local administration transport system.

 Officials said that move is intended to provide benefit to students whose either schools are not at the required distance or school is not suitable for classes. Students in primary class will get the voucher of Rs 10 and upper primary students will get the voucher of Rs 15 rupees per day. The idea is to minimize the dropout rate due to distance of schools in the rural areas.
 
 State education minister   has admitted that schools are situated at far away places in many rural areas. "The vouchers will provide the ease to students in travelling to the school. It will eventually minimize the dropout rate." The distance to schools has been one of the factors drop out in the state. The additional burden of vouchers will be met under the  
 
 The department has also directed the district education officials to ensure that voucher scheme to all the students in need. Here experts have raised a question that under the   act every kilometre has a primary school. "State providing vouchers to students who have schools more than the distance of one kilometer shows that state is flouting the RTE norm," said an education officer.
 
 Meanwhile, the recipients of the prestigious Gargi prize or cash prize has seen an astronomical rise from 91780 girls students in 2016-17 to 1.26, 411 girls students in the year 2017-18. The prize is awarded to students who have scored 75% and above in class X and XII exam. This year total of Rs 48.70 crore rupees will be spent on the cash prize. Officials have also said that this is the highest number of students who have scored distinction and above distinction scores in the board exams. “The number of Gargi award winners has swelled by 34, 631 in the year against the previous year. The highest number of recipients are from Jaipur with 9470 followed by   with 4760 and third is Nagaur with 3686 girls have scored 75% and above scores in the exam.
 
 
