AHMEDABAD: In a bid to reach out to the agitating dalit community, the state education department issued a circular making it mandatory for teachers and students to attend celebrations of the 127th birth anniversary of Dr B R Ambedkar.

  Dalit organizations objected to the idea of compelling   for such celebrations on a public holiday.
 
 The circular issued by the joint director of education on April 12 states, “Make sure that 100% attendance is registered in primary schools and all class 8 students must register for the celebration.” The circular says Babasaheb Ambedkar’s birthday will be celebrated as ‘Social Justice Day’ under the “Gramya Swaraj Abhiyan”.
 
 “At the event on April 14 (Saturday), a debate competition has to be organized by experts in primary schools. For this debate, all primary school students have to remain present,” said the circular.
 
 The circular also said that a ‘Run for Social Unity’ has also been organized and schools will have to hold events on the theme of “National Harmony and Social Justice”.
 
 The director of primary education, M I Joshi, first said that they were obeying instructions from the Union ministry of human resource development. About the instructions, he said that he was busy with a medical emergency and could not comment.
 
 Kaushik Parmar, a Dalit activist, said the state government has come up with a new gimmick to celebrate Babasaheb’s birthday. “Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s birthday is the biggest festival of the dalit community. Would the government compel school staff and students to remain present on Diwali? There is a clear provision that students cannot be called on a public holiday then why is the government compelling them to remain present,” said Parmar.
 
 Vadgam MLA and Dalit leader Jignesh Mevani also objected the idea, saying that the people cannot be compelled to celebrate Babasaheb’s birth anniversary like this. “The state government should remain democratic, at least in the celebration of Babasaheb’s birthday and if it really wants to celebrate it, it should ensure the prevention of atrocities and give land rights to landless dalits,” Mevani said.
 
 
 
 
 Ahmedabad: Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani on Friday stated that his outfit will not protest by blocking the Samakhiyali highway, the entrance to Kutch, as the district collector Remya Mohan gave an assurance that possession of 70 acres of land would be given landless dalits along with 50 retired army personnel. The land has been given in three villages, Moda, Fatehpara and Kalyanpara in Kutch district, said Mevani. On his earlier ultimatum to not allow BJP leaders to touch statues of Babasaheb Ambedkar if the government did not act against the Supreme Court verdict on the Prevention of Atrocities Act, he said that he asked his followers not to indulge in violence with BJP leaders but to show them black flags.
 
 
 
 
 Ahmedabad: Dalit leader and MLA, Jignesh Mevani wrote to Prime Minister   about the need for the latter’s intervention on the recent rape cases in Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir and in Unnao in Uttar Pradesh. The independent MLA from Vadgam also wrote of the need to check mob lynchings in the country and raised questions about the deteriorating law and order situation. On the issues of Dalits, he recalled the atrocities on the Una flogging victims and pointed out that   chief minister Vijay Rupani had not accepted a tricolour made by dalits last year.
 
 
