CHENNAI: It was a deja vu moment for   when he won the   in Moscow on Sunday. Much like the rapid world championship in Riyadh last December, where he sealed the triumph with a win in the penultimate round and a draw in the final match, Anand’s fortunes followed the same script in Moscow too.

 
 
 
 He won his eighth round against Alexander Grischuk before settling for a draw in the final game against Boris Gelfand. Interestingly, the five-time world champion had defeated Grischuk in the penultimate round in Riyadh as well.
 
 Anand’s Moscow win over Grischuk was stunning. The Russian GM was left shaking his head in disbelief as he blundered in his 26th move which allowed Anand to come up with a combination involving a knight and rook sacrifice to press home the advantage.
 
 “I have had a few players who joked with me on that move and Anish Giri was the one who said ‘I was just playing for tricks’. I wasn’t, because I genuinely believed my position was good at that time. It was unfortunate for Grischuk because he thought his king was escaping and suddenly realized that he had walked into a mate straight away after my move. That’s a terrible moment for a chess player when you realize that things have gone horribly wrong. The fact that it was in the video allowed people to appreciate the strong emotions we have but he was literally shaking his head that he had missed the obvious tactic,” Anand told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 Anand couldn’t replicate his performance of the Rapids in the ensuing Blitz on Monday which was won by Sergey Karjakin.
 
 “I had a bad run of results in Rapids last year. I am happy that I peaked in Riyadh this time as it was the world championships. There is always a doubt associated with that because you can do well once but is that a trend. Here the format was changing - a round robin with strong players in the fray - so I see the second result (in Tal Memorial) as a confirmation that Riyadh win was just not a one-off. I needed a result like Riyadh to believe I could do it. If I prepare well and stay really focused like I did in the last two attempts, then it can go very well,” Anand said.
 
 Anand - one of the very few in the current generation to have played and interacted with late world chess champion   - felt there was a lot to learn from the Latvian legend. “I actually was a co-commentator with him during an event in Brussels back in 1988. That’s the first time we shared the stage together and I got to know him better. What struck me about Tal was how approachable he was. The other facet I noticed about him was the fact that he was simply addicted to chess. The game in which I beat him in 1989 is a special memory for me and I was thrilled that I played a good game that day. But I have to acknowledge that he was already in very bad health by that point,” said Anand.
 
 
 
 
 The win at the 11th Tal Memorial Rapid ensured that Anand rose to World No. 3 in live ratings list with 2822.2 points. World champion Magnus Carlsen leads the charts with 2880.0 points.
 
