The BMC’s notice to Mumbai Marathi   (MMGS), served earlier this month regarding the tree that killed Naigaum resident   (38), goes on to direct the MMGS, which is one of the city’s prominent libraries, to “obtain permission” from the BMC within seven days to trim the tree to avoid a mishap.

 
 The tree, which was close to the MMGS’s boundary, crashed on Thursday afternoon. It fell on Sangale, who was walking on the footpath along the MMGS’s wall. At KEM Hospital, Parel, where he was taken in a police van, he was declared dead upon arrival.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 TOI visited the crash site on Friday. The lower trunk of the tree was all that was left of it. The MMGS’s Sudhakar Pawar, who was present at the office, said the Sangrahalaya last year communicated the precarious condition of the tree to the BMC, requesting the civic body to trim it. “We visited the ward office on Thursday too, but then this incident occurred,” he said.
 
 BMC’s assistant superintendent of gardens (F south ward; includes  )   said the MMGS had come to seek the procedure for trimming trees “after the incident”. “As such, we serve notices to all private premises as we cannot take any action in areas that are not municipal land. Once a private party applies for permission, a certain charge is levied by us for trimming a tree,” Raut said.
 
 The BMC’s notice, a copy of which is with TOI, was served on April 6 and shown received by MMGS on April 11.
 
 Assistant municipal commissioner   said, “There is a procedure to trim trees... If a tree is on municipal premises, we do act and the required trimming is done. But on private property we are not entitled to do so by ourselves.”
 
 The compensation for the next of kin of someone killed by a tree fall is Rs 1 lakh if the tree is on municipal premises. Since the tree that killed Sangale was on private property, his family is ineligible for compensation from the BMC. “But on humanitarian considerations, we may put up the proposal before the administration for compensating Sangale’s family,” said a civic official.
 
 TIMES VIEW: Large trees, if they topple over, can cause enormous damage to lives and property. The civic body, which is vested with the responsibility of public safety, must have a proactive mechanism to ensure such incidents do not recur. The public too must play its role and be alert to the risks posed by old or weak trees. In two recent instances, fatalities were a result of tree collapses on private property. Rather than wait for an official complaint or application from a resident or society, BMC may want to empower its staff to carry out surveys and intervene quickly where necessary.
 
