KOLKATA: It was a scene out of the 1977 blockbuster ‘Amar Akbar Anthony’ at   on Wednesday as several Hindus, Muslims and a Christian youth queued up to donate blood to a critically ill 13-year-old girl. Ultimately, it was Imam Ali   — one of the nine Muslim men — who was deemed fit to do the ‘honours’. But the others are in the pipeline because   Das (name changed), will need continuous transfusions to live.

 
 Molla, travelled 37 kilometres from Accra to New Town and broke his ‘Roza’ so that he could donate his blood. Molla, a devout Muslim who has observed the Ramzan fast all his life, was happy to break it for the cause. “No religious cause could stop me,” he said.
 
 Edward A Solomon, a Christian and over 35 Hindu youths had also queued up to donate for Sujata, who has been suffering from acute and incurable of anaemia for many years. Since 2014, she has been a patient at Tata Medical Centre. The hospital finally advised bone marrow transplant, which was done 19 days ago. She now needs a series of single-donor platelet transfusions for which donors have to come to the hospital for fresh donations as blood kept in banks cannot help.
 
 Sujata’s father, a schoolteacher, had initially tried to organise donors for his O+ daughter. But soon he could find no more. Her uncle then put out a request on Facebook as the family could not find a donor for Wednesday’s session. Soon there was a flood of replies from people, all regular donors of the same blood group. “We had a list of 47 donors in no time,” the girl’s uncle said. “We were surprised to see several Muslims willing to donate. They all said that they were willing to break their fasts if their blood could save a child,” he said.
 
 Molla regularly donates blood and is part of the Quest for Life activism, which believes that no one should die for want of blood, said  , the chief of the initiative.
 
 Deputy director of Tata Medical Centre VR Ramanan said, “An engraftment of Sujata’s stem cells has been done and gradually she will be able to live a life free of transfusions. To see someone driving down so far and break his fast for the cause is a remarkable moment.”
 
