 should not be a temporary but rather a permanent transformation. For Jitesh Gera, even though it took him only two months to lose weight, getting into shape was his aim. Jitesh understood early in his weight loss journey that he needed to lose weight the healthy way and not in a crass manner. Here is a story of motivation and how it can transform you forever...

 
  Jitesh Gera
 
 
 Sales specialist at an MNC
 
 
 33
 
 
 90 kilos
 
 
  18 kilos
 
 
 2 months to lose weight and 10 months to get into shape
 
 
 It was when I decided to convert all my negative energy, fear, and anger into a fuel that transforms my body and mind.
 
 
 4-5 eggs (with two yolks removed) and a glass of milk along with a chapati
 
 
 Steamed chicken with vegetables. Vegetables include spinach, broccoli, mushroom, carrot, etc.
 
 
  Shake (milk or curd with peanut butter, 4 egg whites, chia seeds and blueberries)
 
 
 Home cooked lentil with cottage cheese
 
 
  I go high on carbs and good fats, eat lots of rice with beans and cheese.
 
 
  I keep changing my workout every six to eight weeks. I keep four days for weight lifting, cardio, and abs. One day is dedicated to CrossFit and two days for recovery. 
 
 
  Steamed chicken
 
 
 The days I get dead tired from work and don’t want to go to the gym, on those days I just put all my energy to walk to the main door of the gym, and rest just follows. Gym or healthy diet should be considered as a lifestyle instead of short-term activity to achieve goals.
 
 
  Stay with people who value healthy body and mind. I strongly believe in ‘you are the average of five people you spend the most time with’.
 
  
 
 
  I look at old pictures of me when I was overweight, and then I see myself today getting all the attention. I do not want to lose it at any cost.
 
 
  You may not know, but you attract failures in life much sooner than you expect. You will find hard to stay passionate at work and lack confidence. Other than this, there is the added issue of health problems like blood pressure, sugar etc.
 
 
 Fitter than I am today.
 
  Healthy eating and being consistent with my workout even during travel.
 
 
  It was when I had a shoulder injury. But, today I feel it helped me correct my workout schedule and motion.
 
 
  Weight loss is not as tough as it looks, you only have to be consistent and committed. Just the way you are committed to your job, wife, children or parents. We have got only one body to live. If you can’t take care of your body, how can you take care of others in your life?
 
 
 
  
