KOCHI: Motor vehicles department (MVD) has decided to start a drive against those who illegally rent private two-wheelers or four-wheelers to foreigners, who drive on the streets of Kochi without valid licence.

 A data analysed by MVD shows that in the last two-anda-half years, MVD caught 25 foreign nationals for riding vehicles without international licence in Fort Kochi alone.
 
 A foreign national should possess international licence to drive a vehicle on Indian roads. Otherwise, he or she will be caught for driving vehicle without licence, despite having a valid driving licence from their respective country.
 
 “We impose fine of Rs 1,500 for driving vehicle without licence. Unlike Indians, the foreign nationals do not plead with us to avoid paying fine. They give the amount right at the spot itself without any argument. But the foreign tourists say they took vehicle without knowledge on the need of international licence in India. We caught foreign nationals from several countries, including Italy, Russia, Ireland and other European countries,” said Abdul  , joint regional transport officer (in - charge) in Mattancherry.
 
 The foreign tourist should secure international driving licence from their country itself before boarding flight to India. Most of the foreign nationals were caught from Veli and Fort Kochi areas and all the 25 cases were for driving two-wheelers.
 
 MVD officials suspect homestay owners provide vehicles to tourists for the convenience of the latter or facilitating to get in touch with the shops, which give vehicles on rentals.
 
  RTO Reji P   said they would consider the issue of foreigners driving in the city without valid driving licence. “I will ask officials to investigate the issue,” he said.
 
 But ‘rent-a-car’ shops, which give vehicles on rent, without MVD permit is illegal. Only two companies secured permit of MVD to run shops to give vehicles on rent, under Ernakulam RTO so far.
 
 There is huge demand for vehicles on rent among foreign tourists. Considering the demand, numerous such illegal shops flourish in Fort Kochi, without MVD’s permit. “This matter has come to our notice and we will soon start a drive to curb this,” said Rahman.
 
 For securing permit, the owner should have five vehicles, minimum space to park the vehicles and facilities to carry out maintenance works and office space.
 
 “Some homestays have vehicles to give on rent to tourists who drive it to Munnar and Alappuzha. There are also shops which give vehicles including cycles on rent to tourists. Some homestays have a tie-up with shops to give vehicles on rent to tourists. If tourist wants to travel to distant areas, they provide   bikes. But, if they want to travel to nearby areas, the shops will provide scooters. Owners rent vehicles after examining the licence of tourists,” said a senior official of Kerala Homestay and Tourism Society.
 
