HYDERABAD: The writing on the wall has come true. Ending the decades-long friendly ties with MIM, the   has decided to field candidates against   in   and every other Assembly and Parliament constituency the Majlis contests, a decision taken by Congress president 
. 
 
 This comes in the backdrop of the strained and severed ties between Congress and MIM after Majlis floor leader in the Assembly   was jailed and allegedly tortured during N Kiran Kumar Reddy-led Congress regime in unified Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Rahul has finally taken a decision to show MIM its place.   president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Tuesday said the party high command has decided that Congress will field candidates against MIM in Old City and elsewhere it enters the electoral fray.
 
 The Congress president has given the direction to TPCC to not only field candidates against MIM, but also ensure that Congress candidates trounce the Majlis candidates. This decision was taken as the MIM had been contesting against Congress in different states and cutting into its minority and other sections votebank. 
 
 
 
 
 Though Congress used to field candidates against MIM earlier too, it was alleged that it was done with a friendly understanding that the party candidate would divide the Hindu votebank of BJP, TDP or TRS, and indirectly help the MIM win the seat. The MIM had always deniedthefriendly fight and claimed it wins on its own strength.
 
 The Congress will seriously “contest to win” against MIM wherever it enters the electoral battle in 2018-19 polls. This would also be applicable in panchayat polls.
 
 Uttam said the budget for 2018-19 fiscal would be the last one for chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led government as Dalits, minorities, unemployed youth, farmers, tribals among other sections were all set to oust the ruing TRS and bring Congress to power.
 
 Stating that all indications were pointing towards an early election in December, 2018, Uttam demanded that CM KCR should either distribute three acre land to 7.5 lakh eligible Dalit families or make provision in the 2018-19 budget to extend ₹15 lakh financial help to every eligible Dalit family to purchase 3 acre land.
 
 Former Union minister P Chidambaram and Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah are unlikely to attend Congress Praja Chaitanya Bus Yatra.
 
