PUNE: A month after the   had set aside a “cryptic’’ order of the   of granting bail to three accused of the   murder case, the HC on Monday allowed intervention by the victim’s brother and scheduled it for fresh hearing on March 16.

  and two other accused were granted bail last year by the HC while saying that the murder may have been provoked “in the name of religion’’. The SC bench of Justices S A Bobde and Nageshwar Rao had remanded the matter back for fresh hearing after holding that the reasons cited by the HC were “vulnerable to criticism” even though the HC judge may not have intended to hurt the feelings of any particular community or support the feelings of another.
 
 
 In June 2014, Shaikh, an IT professional, was proceeding for dinner at 9pm at   when he was assaulted by a mob of over 20 people, including two juveniles, with hockey sticks, bats and stones leading to his death. The prosecution said the mob was allegedly motivated by a speech delivered by prime accused Dhananjay Desai, chief of Hindu Rashtra Sena. Desai is in custody as his bail was rejected on merit by the HC in 2016.
 
 Justice Mridula Bhatkar who had granted bail last January to Gambhire and two others, on Monday at the fresh hearing perused the postmortem report produced by public prosecutor Dipak Thakre and additional public prosecutor Yogesh Nakhwa. Nakhwa also informed the court that after being released on bail last year one more offence of murder was registered against two of the accused.
 
 The state had moved the apex court which had stayed the order before setting it aside. The SC bench had on February 8, observed that that HC order shows little discussion on merit of the case. The “reason given by the HC can be understood or misunderstood…as a kind of justification for the murder and it is obvious that the fact deceased belonged to a certain community cannot be a justification for any assault much less a murder.’’ Bhatkar while granting the bail had said, “The meeting was held half an hour prior to the assault. The accused otherwise had not other motive such as any personal enmity against innocent deceased Mohsin. The fault of the deceased was only that he belonged to another religion. I consider this factor in favour of the applicants/accused. Moreover, the accused do not have criminal record and it appears that in the name of the religion, they were provoked and have committed the murder.”
 
