Trichy: Having assured a spot in the proposed defence industrial production corridor of the central government, the industries and infrastructure development associations in Trichy are planning to host an orientation meeting here by February end. The meeting will serve as a platform for representatives of the defence ministry to share their requirements and also for the fabrication industries here to explain their strengths. The defence ministry held a meeting in Chennai with industrialists in Tamil Nadu on January 18.  The meeting was meant to encourage indigenous production of defence parts and equipment to cut down heavy spending on import of the same Trichy-based industrialists were said to be assured by the defence ministry that the city would find a spot alongside Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Hosur and Bengaluru in the proposed defence industrial production corridor. Representatives of more than 300 small and medium scale industries in Trichy and delegates from various sectors of defence ministry will attend the meeting, likely to be held on February 28. The Trichy District Tiny and Small Scale Industries Association (TIDITSSIA) will coordinate the orientation meeting. “As many as 22 firms here, including a few medium scale industries, are into defence production at Thiruverumbur, Mathur and Ariyamangalam. We have to increase the number further for which we are planning a meeting. It will promote interaction between defence ministry and entrepreneurs here,” N Kanagasabapathy, president, TIDITSSIA, told TOI. In Trichy, the presence of BHEL has made fabrication and welding industries to flourish in the last three decades and the proposed defence corridor will serve as a tool to diversify their portfolio.  “Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project (HAPP) and Ordnance Factory Tiruchirappalli (OFT) which are Union government’s two defence production centres in the city which would also benefit. We are looking forward to the meeting for promoting indigenous production to address defence requirements,” added S Ashok Sundaresan, the president of BHEL Small and Medium Industries Association.  The union government is keen on promoting indigenous production of 1,100 defence items to cut down on imports.