GREATER NOIDA: A 30-year-old painter allegedly poured kerosene on him and immolated himself on Tuesday night after his fiancée apparently refused to open the   despite repeated knocks following a quarrel in NTPC society in  .

 
 
 Randhir Chauhan was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi, where he died during treatment a few hours later. 
 
 Chauhan hailed from Hisar in Haryana while his girlfriend Vinita Sahu (32) belonged to Bihar.
 
 Sub-inspector Jeet Singh Tomar, the investigating officer in the case, said Chauhan was in a live-in relationship with Vinita, a divorcee with two children — son (11) and daughter (6) — from her first husband. The   had separated from her husband three years ago and shifted to Greater Noida, where she took a house on rent.
 
 Vinita, a teacher in a private school, said she had met Chauhan sometime last year and gradually developed a liking for him. On March 26 this year, the   had had an engagement and had told their acquaintances they would get married in the coming months. Since then, they had been living in the same house.
 
 Ties, however, soured between the two over the past few weeks when Vinita apparently told Randhir she wanted to opt out of the relationship. “Randhir would drink a lot, and then thrash me over trivial matters. This gradual change in his behaviour troubled me and I decided to call it quits,” she said.
 
 Police said that it was after one such quarrel two weeks ago that Randhir packed his bags and left the house he was sharing with Vinita. “On Tuesday night, I had not only locked the main door but also the room where I was sleeping with the kids. Randhir scaled the boundary wall and started banging on the door,” she said.
 
 According to sources, Randhir apparently started inflicting injuries on himself with whatever he found around and then drenched himself with a bottle of kerosene. He then set himself on fire.
 
 Randhir’s father Shyam Singh Chauhan has filed a police complaint against the woman, following which a case of abetment to suicide has been registered under Section 306 of the IPC. 
 
 Ajay Pal Sharma, SSP Gautam Budh Nagar, said police were probing the matter from all possible angles. 
 
 
