THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   district panchayat has embarked on a special project to promote women entrepreneurship in the district by creating a   which can be used for running mini-industrial units. The panchayat has received sanction from co-ordination committee to utilize an amount of Rs 5 crore for the purchase of land.

 The panchayat had proposed in the annual plan 2017-18 to spend Rs 1.9 crore for purchase of land and creation of basic infrastructure for General category and Rs 2.58 crore for SC category. However, the government order restricted use of Rs One crore for purchase of land which was taken up by the panchayat with the co-ordination committee and later permission was granted to spend close to Rs 5 crore.
 
 The district already has got five industrial units in various parts of the panchayat, run by both men and women in areas like Nilamel, Chadayamangalam and Pooyapalli. It is for the first time, an exclusive land bank and infrastructure are being created solely for  .
 
 The panchayat has already received applications from six land owners who own more than 1 acre each. Site inspection has been completed in these plots by officials of department of industries, fire force and PCB. “We are hopeful of completing land purchase of 4 plots by this month end. The valuation process is going on at present. We are also creating basic facilities like water, electricity and other required infrastructure on these plots. Later interested women groups can take over the industrial units for various entrepreneurial schemes and panchayat can receive the rent for the same,'' said  , secretary of Kollam district panchayat.
 
 The co-ordination committee, while giving special sanction to use more than Rs 1 crore for purchase of land, has put forward only one condition; to ensure continuance of activities mostly centred on infrastructure creation.
 
 The panchayat took to creation of land bank and infrastructure for women mainly owing to dearth of land, a common complaint among aspiring women entrepreneurs. The panchayat had earlier proposed another scheme which envisaged bank linked subsidies for women entrepreneurs by which panchayat offered loan subsidies for business run by women. However many applicants preferred to have panchayat aid directly instead of subsidies and the scheme found no takers.
 
 “Once we could ensure ideal plots with necessary infrastructure, there would be women entrepreneurs ready to take up the industrial units. The plots have been identified close to road and access has been ensured,” said M  , vice-president and president in charge, Kollam district panchayat.
 
 Kollam district panchayat has also executed another project aimed at asset creation for women self-help groups by which bank loans up to Rs 4 lakh can be availed and panchayat would take care of Rs 3 lakh with interest of only Rs 1 lakh need to be paid by women groups. 25 such groups have come forward to be a part of this scheme.
 
 
