BENGALURU: Within a week of it emerging that a consortium led by Embassy Group had emerged as the sole bidder for the city’s ambitious pod taxi project, it has come to light that the Rs 657 crore project to redevelop Indiranagar’s BDA complex is again likely to go a joint venture that has the real estate behemoth as a partner.

 Embassy Group has close business dealings with Bengaluru city development minister KJ  . The two are partners in Embassy Golf Links.
 
 On Wednesday, it was confirmed that the joint venture formed between Embassy Group’s Embassy Property Developments Private Limited ( ) and   & Investments Private Limited had qualified to redevelop one of the city’s better known BDA complexes in   which sits on six acres of prime land.
 
 Answering questions of conflict of interest, George said: “I’ve not interfered with the BDA tendering process,” even as the project worth an estimated Rs 657 crore is yet to be awarded to any firm officially.
 
 The project is to be implemented on a public-privatepartnership model and this is the third time the BDA has floated tenders as the first two did not garner any response from the industry.
 
 
 
 
 George said: “BDA called the tenders thrice and Maverick Constructions bagged it. Embassy Group has a joint venture with Maverick Constructions in the redevelopment of the complex. Looks like I am the darling of the media, which highlights my name every time there is talk of a scam. Don’t try to spoil my name in public. Barring my stakes in Embassy Golf Links, I have no business interest in Embassy Group, so where is the Rs 700 crore scam?”
 
 “Embassy Group through its venture EPDPL has partnered with Maverick Holdings to form a JV Consortium and bid for the   complex redevelopment. Both entities will form a special purpose vehicle once the project has been awarded to the JV. As per BDA’s criteria, Maverick qualifies technically and EPDPL qualifies financially, with EPDPL being the lead partner. The bid is based on a design to develop 6.5 lakh sqft of retail & mall space and 3.50 lakh sqft of commercial office space,” Embassy said.
 
 Indiranagar complex, just over 4km from the CBD, is very close to the suburb’s 100ft Road, pegged as the city’s new high street and has a Metro station just 500 mts away. The tender floated by BDA last year states the firm winning the bid would have 60 years agreement with the authority and will be allowed to build a swanky 10-storey structure after demolishing the existing one. Sources in BDA said there are about 160 tenants in the existing complex who will be rehabilitated in the upcoming facility and they would get the same share of area located at ground floor or close to ground floor.
 
 
