KOLKATA: The cops have stepped in to muffle the panic caused by the outbreak of enteric disease along the south-eastern periphery of the city and inquire if rumour is fanning the fear.

 Police stations in the affected belt discreetly sent officers to neighbourhoods to verify the authenticity of claims emerging from the localities. While an officer claimed it was part of the community policing initiative, another said the move was to ascertain if the outbreak reports were genuine or exaggerated. Another officer said the visits were also meant to keep public anger in check and ensure the Kolkata Municipal Corporation clinics functioned smoothly. “The disease has been spreading to new areas, triggering panic among citizens. The OC wanted to stay abreast of the situation and sent me to assess the scene,” an officer, who had gone to an affected locality, said.
 
 
  
  
 
 With the source of the problem yet to be detected, people are beginning to voice their discontentment. “Let us not play hide-and-seek with something as essential as water. The civic administration has a fair role to play in restoring faith of the residents,” said   from  .
 
 The outbreak that was first reported from areas around Briji in Garia has since spread to Patuli, Bagha Jatin, Santoshpur, Mukundapur and  . Cases have also been reported from parts of Kasba and Haltu, all contiguous areas along EM Bypass and served by water from the Dhapa treatment plant.
 
 Engineers and public health experts felt the source was likely to be near Madurdaha, located closest to the Dhapa treatment plant.
 
 With people switching to packaged water to avoid falling ill, the queues that are usually seen at   water supply taps in the morning and evening have disappeared. At 4.30pm on Tuesday, there were no takers for water that flowed from a tap at Nelinagar. “The queues for water in the afternoon would begin nearly an hour before the scheduled 4.30pm supply. But the scene has completely changed since Saturday with people fearful of consuming the water. We still gather near the tap in the evenings where the conversation is about the water that we watch being wasted,” said   of Nelinagar in Haltu.
 
 Nearly every household in the locality is affected by the outbreak. “We use a water purifier but it didn’t work. My mother had to be hospitalised last evening after bouts of loose motions and vomiting left her weak,” said Sourav Datta, a resident of the area. Locals complained they initially felt bloated after consuming the water before cramps set in followed by loose motions and vomiting.
 
 Though police officers are putting up a brave face and advising people not to panic, the conversation among themselves betrayed anxiety. “I am worried over my son’s condition. He has been complaining of abdominal pain and has bouts of loose motions these past two days. I will take him to another doctor this evening,” said an officer.
 
