NAGPUR: From a regular hangout spot in the city, Futala is set to see a complete changeover with the Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) planning to install musical fountain, start laser show in the lake. Not just this, the NIT also plans an elevated viewing gallery with a tunnel beneath for vehicular traffic so that spectators are not disturbed by the noise of vehicles passing by. Motorists using the existing   will have to compulsorily use the tunnel.

 While it is a project of the NIT, it will be executed by MahaMetro. The Metro agency has prepared an estimate of Rs40 crore and submitted it to the trust. The civic agency has sent the proposal to the Centre seeking funds under Central Road Fund, whose disbursement is done by Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari.
 
 Mahesh Kumar, director (project) of MahaMetro said the 600-metre-long tunnel will begin some distance after the road turns towards Futala lake from Amravati Road. “It will continue till the T-point on the other end of the lake. Its bottom will be 1 metre above the lake surface so that environmental norms are not violated. The viewing gallery will be constructed atop this tunnel,” he added.
 
 The viewing gallery will be an open structure and will have seating arrangement similar to Yeshwant Stadium. It will run along the length of the lake so that maximum people can view the musical fountain and laser show. The gallery will, however, have tensile roofing so that it can be covered during rainy season.
 
 Kumar said the tunnel and the gallery will be 12 metre wide. “The existing road width is 18 metres. NIT has to decide what to do with the remaining 6 metre. The existing food joints are not required to be demolished for this project. Their future will also be decided by the civic agency,” he added.
 
 The MahaMetro official further said that seeking permission from heritage committee and environmental agencies will be the NIT’s responsibility.
 
 Gadkari seems to be keen on building a road tunnel in the city. Earlier, he had proposed one under   but   ( ) found it too costly. MahaMetro decided to alter its elevated viaduct so that the need for the tunnel was obviated.
 
 NIT had clubbed the tender for musical fountain and laser show in Futala lake and laser show on the life of Swami Vivekanand in Ambazari lake. The cost of the two projects is Rs50 crore. It had floated tenders thrice but did not get response from even three companies, which is mandatory. When the third tender also got response from only two companies, it decided to open it as per norms.
 
 RK Pimple, superintending engineer (projects), said, “The financial bid has been opened and now the bids are being evaluated by a committee of outside experts.”
 
 
