Bhopal: Congress chief whip in Lok Sabha Jyotiraditya Scindia on Friday took a dig at CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan over his recently-announced schemes for Sahariya tribals in Kolaras — including a grant of Rs 1,000 per family to buy fruits and combat malnutrition.

 “The chief minister is trying to pull every single rabbit out of his hat before the Mungawali and Kolaras bypolls. Why is he announcing these schemes now? Why not earlier?” Scindia asked. “The chief minister is making announcements for Sahariyas alone because they are the only ‘adivasis’ in these two constituencies. He forgets that when you build a relationship, it has to be nurtured over time. A relationship cannot be based on a transaction and that is the difference between BJP and Congress,” he added.
 
 To emphasise Congress’ maxim of nurturing long-term relationship with people, the Guna MP said: “This is why the development I have brought to the region is not only in Kolaras and Mungawali but beyond the areas of my constituency — be it be Bhind, Morena, Sheopur, Gwalior, Datia, Indore, Neemuch or Mandsaur.”
 
 Sahariyas have suddenly taken precedence in government policy only because of their sizeable votebank in Kolaras and Mungawali, says Congress. In Kolaras, the community has close to 30,000 votes and could alone become the deciding factor.
 
 “I don’t know if these announcements will make a difference. But I do not believe in transactional relationship and would rather put my efforts to make the association with people sustainable,” Scindia told TOI. “CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan made 146 announcements during the Shivpuri bypoll and only two have been implemented in 11 years. He made 300 announcements before the Ater bypoll, and 425 in Mungawali and Kolaras in the past month. That’s his track record.” 
 
 Scindia said he invested 15 years to establish a connection with people. “Today, when I ask for people’s blessings and support, it is based on the development work I have done — be it rail connections or the Rs 200 crore Rajiv Gandhi Gramin Vidyutikaran Yojana or village roads,” he said. “I brought solar energy lighting across Guna-Shivpuri constituency. Houses have been constructed for tribals under the Indira Awas, which is now Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana and infrastructure upgraded in Mungawali. So, there has been a development paradigm based not just on the needs of people but my philosophy of where I want to take development. This is my track record,” he added.
 
 
