CHANDIGARH: The municipal corporation ( ), on Saturday, conducted awareness programmes of   of waste at source level throughout city by organizing separate workshops with resident welfare associations under the chairmanships of area councillors of different municipal wards.

 The teams, including sanitary inspectors, engineering department and other officials disseminated information about IEC (information, education and communication) activities regarding Swachh Bharat Mission and segregation of waste at source level.
 
 Municipal commissioner Jitender Yadav said the MC will involve all citizens in the campaign. He instructed officers of the civic body to focus on maintenance work. He said proper maintenance of public assets is important and after cleanliness drives regular follow ups will be planned. He stressed the need to clean public toilets, city roads, market areas and parks.
 
 He said every citizen will have to participate in the survey with the team of MC and it is the prime duty of every officer to ensure maximum participation of every stakeholder. He said without the dedication and participation of city residents, proper cleanliness cannot take place. Terming the cleanliness campaigns as refreshers about routine process and awakening towards clean and green mission, the commissioner said it is not one-time job, but every citizens will have to perform it regularly to keep their city number one.
 
 The commissioner said the MC has distributed two dustbins to each and every household to ensure segregation at source level. The biodegradable waste can be used for various purposes, including production of biogas, electricity and fertilizers. “Challans will be issued to violators found littering in the public place. Challans will be issued to violators for throwing malba (debris) in an unauthorised manner and not disposing of horticulture waste properly,” he said.
 
 Earlier in the morning, the different teams visited the households along with door-to-door waste collectors, who have been provided double bins that is blue and green for collection of segregated waste from household level. During the drive, city residents were requested to come forward to participate not only in cleanliness campaigns but in awareness campaigns so that with the help of every citizen, the city may remain clean and beautiful. People were also advised not to use plastic bags, which pollute the environment and they were asked to develop a habit regarding segregating their household waste and do not litter in the public places or open spaces.
 
 The councillors during different programmes with RWAs emphasized on downloading Swachhata app for complaining any kind of sanitation problem and insanitation in the city and after resolving the complaint the citizen must give their vote up and valuable feedback on the app.
 
 Earlier, municipal commissioner   has formed different teams under senior officers to conduct these programmes zone wise, including   and.  , additional municipal commissioners, Tejdeep Singh Saini, joint commissioner,  , chief engineer,   and  , superintending engineers, to personally visit the areas.
 
 
