GURUGRAM:   on Monday promised to recalculate enhanced compensation to be paid by   who were given plots in Sector 57.

 The announcement was made after a group of allottees met Huda administrator Chander Shekhar Khare in the day, questioning the method used to fix the second enhanced compensation.
 
 Recently, Huda issued notice to around 3,500 plot owners in Sector 57, asking them to pay enhanced compensation at Rs 6,784 per square yard.
 
 The allottees claimed that they had already paid enhanced compensation at Rs 5,600 per square yard in 2012, and thus are opposing the second enhanced compensation. “The calculations are incorrect. Areas of other sectors have also been included in Sector 57 and the allotttees have been asked to pay enhanced price for them,” alleged  , one of the allottees, after meeting the Huda administrator.
 
 “We will recalculate the enhanced compensation and share the details with the allottees in next 10 days,” Khare said later in the day.
 
 Huda had started developing Sector 57 in 2004, and had acquired 550 acres in Wazirabad and Ghata villages for the purpose. But, some land owners moved court, challenging the acquisition. Hearing their plea, the court in 2011 directed Huda to award higher compensation to the land owners.
 
 Acting on the directive, Huda collected enhanced compensation at Rs 5,600 per square yard from the allottees in 2012. However, not happy even with the revised compensation, the original land owners again filed a petition before the Punjab and Haryana high court which in 2015 directed Huda to pay additional compensation.
 
 As per the Haryana Urban Development (Disposal of Land and Building) Regulations, 1978, allottees are liable to pay additional amount if land owners are awarded higher compensation by court.
 
 However, the allottees blamed Huda for delaying the notice for recovery of the enhanced compensation. “The HC order had come in 2015 and after waiting for three years, Huda has issued the notice now, with 15% interest. Huda cannot ask allottees to pay interest for the delay it made,” said  , a Sector 57 resident.
 
 Ajay Rathi, another resident, said Huda was a ‘no-profit’ organisation. Hence, it should auction unsold plots in Sector 57 to generate funds for the enhanced compensation. “If enhanced compensation is for the land, external development charges for private colonies and group housing colonies should be revised too as they are also using common areas (like parks, community centres, markets and other such facilities,” said Rathi.
 
 
