Ludhiana: Facing the ire of teachers associations for suspending head teacher and class teacher of Government Elementary School, Baba Sri Chand Colony of Munidya Kalan after a video showing two Class V students hauling heavy garbage buckets outside the school went viral, the district education department reinstated them on Monday. On Tuesday however, Punjab state commission for the protection of child rights summoned both teachers and DEO in the office on January 18. 

 The commissioner has asked DEO, elementary Jaspreet Kaur to submit a detailed report with the commissioner on that day. She has also been asked to ensure the presence of both teachers who allowed the students to go out with heavy garbage bins during school time. 
 
 Head teacher Charanjit Kaur was suspended and class teacher Savita was transferred on Friday. But teachers’ associations, residents and even parents were upset at what they perceived as a hasty decision. A total of 50 parents and residents reached the school and submitted in writing that they don’t want action against the teachers. 
 
 On Sunday, a number of teachers and teachers’ associations across the state wrote to the secretary, education, saying schools would boycott the cleaning process. They also slammed the government for not providing safai karamcharis in government primary schools and pointed out that under the Swachh Bharat Mission, students are involved in cleaning the school and surrounding areas. 
 
 Later facing criticism district education officer (elementary) Jaspreet Kaur had revoked the decision.
 
 DEO (elementary) Jaspreet Kaur said, "The teachers were at fault for sending students out of the campus alone. Though I understand it was not intentional, it was a highly negligent act. They were suspended as the video had gone viral and if the department had not taken stern action, it would have given a wrong message to all. I feel in these two days the teachers have realised their mistake and now many parents, teachers and residents have come up in their support. With examinations coming up, shifting the teachers could affect studies. Considering all factors, they have been reinstated,” she said.
 
 Commission chairman Sukesh Kalia said, “The teacher and DEO have been summoned. The DEO has been asked to submit a detailed report on the issue. Besides the matter of the viral video, a genuine matter of the need of safai karamcharis in schools has been raised by teachers’ unions. If needed, the commission will take up the issue with the government.” 
 
 
