Jaisalmer: In a first of its kind discovery for India, some rare kinds of almond-shaped trace fossils have been discovered in  . This is the fourth such discovery in the world after America, Mexico and  . 

 Professor  , who was the former head of the department for Geology at JNV University, Jodhpur, discovered these peculiar almod-shaped traces during field work around Barmer with his teammates. These strange shapes turned out to be a rare trace fossil colony created by Mayflies. These clusters of millions of iron rinds preserved in Barmer sandstone dates just after the extinction of Dinosaurs in the early Paleocene period in western Rajasthan.
 
 “These are the first fossils of its kind in India to be spotted at Gehun colony of Barmer town and these trace fossils are almost perfectly intact and but now extinct,”   said, discussing the research paper published in the April volume of one of India's science journals “Current Science”. He added that these two-dimensional almond, lozen and J shaped trace fossils are known as Asthenopodichnium lithuanicum and lignorum and that these fossils stayed well preserved in wood logs (stems).
 
 Team members Dr. V.S.Parihar and Dr.S.L.Nama, assistant professors of Geology and Zoology department   said looking to the diversity of wood boring traces, indicator of Fluvial environment and tropical climate, such type of trace fossils should also be found in the larger part of western Rajasthan where similar sandstones are deposited in Jurassic to Paleocene (220-95 MY) time. However, the same fossils are also found as ill preserved traces at Lunu hill about seven kms from Barmer town. The discovery clearly indicates that a vast area of western Rajasthan was dense forest with no dearth of water as large rivers provided water in which big trunks of tress could grow and migrate. 
 
 Lead author Dr. NS Shekhawat said, “This new find also gives insight into how Mayflies constructed their colonies in the wood log for shelter and how they dispersed about 55 to 65 million year ago.”
 
 
