NEW DELHI:   minister   said on Friday that a former   (RBI) governor had flagged the risk of farm loan waivers in a letter to the chief election commissioner.

 “Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has informed that a former governor of RBIin hisletter to the Chief Election Commissioner had mentioned the risk of promising loan waivers by political parties at election time as beneficiariesstop making payment even if they are financially in a position to make them and that this affects the banking sector as well as the state finances,” Jaitley saidin  .
 
 “RBI has also informed that the ex-governor, while addressing a conference organized jointly by National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and  , had also stated that the loan waivers and subsidies distort the credit discipline,” he said, while replying tothe question regarding farm loan waiver by members   and Konakalla Narayana Rao.
 
 The MPs had sought to know whether former RBI governors were of the view that farm loan waiver is not a good practice for economic or credit culture which cannot be justifiedin thelong run.
 
 The minister alsosaidthat no financial assistance for loan waiver has been provided to states by the Centre during the last three years and the current year. Several states, including Uttar Pradesh, have unveiled farm loan waivers. He said the RBI has issued directions for relief measuresto be provided by respective lending institutions in areas affected by natural calamities, which include restructuring, rescheduling of existing crop loans and termloans.
 
 The benchmark for initiating relief measures by banks has also been reduced to 33% crop loss in line with the National Disaster Management Framework. As per RBI’s directions, all short-term loans, except those overdue at the time of natural calamity, are eligiblefor restructuring, the minister said.
 
 “RBI has advised the banks that the principal amount as well as the interest due for repayment in the year of occurrenceof natural calamity may beconvertedintoterm loan. If thelossisbetween 33% and 50% maximum period of repayment is up to 2 years (including moratorium periodof 1 year) and in case the loss is 50% or more maximum periodof repayment isup to5 years (including moratorium periodof 1year),” hesaid. 
 
