

 
 
 Any new emerging infection: it can be a brand new one, like   was when it was first reported in the early 1980s. It could be a new strain of something like influenza, or a new resistant strain of an existing disease like tuberculosis. Or, it could be ebola re-emerging due to forest loss. But I fear an influenza pandemic.
 
 
 
 Already, new strains of influenza are developing among birds in China. But these microbes have not yet learnt to travel easily from birds to humans. Influenza frightens me because it spreads very fast. During the 1918 pandemic, when there was hardly any air connectivity and people didn’t travel much, about 3 to 6% of the world’s population succumbed to this viral infection. Today, we live in a globalised world where people travel between continents every day. Also, urbanisation has led to people living in dense pockets, especially in countries like India. A cough or a sneeze from an infected person can pass the virus to a healthy person sitting across the table. So just imagine the impact and the scale of its spread today.
 
 
 
 Yes, it is. The risk factors mentioned above stand true for India. In addition, its heavy burden of non-communicable diseases, like diabetes and heart disease also makes it particularly vulnerable. Chronic diseases compromise immunity and leave you prone to infections. Deaths from flu are higher in diabetics than the general population. During the 1918 pandemic, India reported the highest number of fatalities, around 17 million.
 
 
 
 Yes, we do. In addition to urbanisation and living in a highly connected world, deforestation is leading to closer contact with animals, which may infect us with deadly viruses. With climate change, vectors like mosquitoes are moving up north into newer regions. Add anti-microbial resistance to this mix, and we have this perfect storm of a new virus and resistant infections. Even if you survive the influenza, you will be very weak. And if we don’t have antibiotics that work, then you would be infected and untreatable. That to me is worse, it’s another type of epidemic. 
 
 
 
 The seasonal flu shot is the best tool we have currently. There is some evidence to show that taking the flu shot two years in a row gives you more protection than if you skipped a year. There is also some evidence on how people receiving a flu shot for the first time have the strongest immune protection reaction, other studies say this isn’t true. We need to invest in flu research on improving the effectiveness of the vaccine and, more importantly, to develop a universal flu vaccine — one that would work against all types of flu, including potentially a new pandemic strain.
 
 
 
 Use mobile technology to reach out to affected and vulnerable populations, mobilise healthcare and make long-term investments in scientific research. India’s small pox eradication campaign is the most successful healthcare campaign in history. During the time more than 100,000 health workers visited over 100 million households to eradicate small pox. That to me is mind-boggling mobilisation. So, you already have a blueprint to deal with a future pandemic.
 
