NEW DELHI: The United States on Friday expressed "tremendous concern" that   (JuD) chief and 26/11 mastermind   continues to operate freely in  .

 
 "He (Hafiz Saeed) is out in the open, it is a tremendous concern to the US. We have a reward on him, for his arrest," said US State Department spokesperson Heather Nauert.
 
 She was responding to a question about ousted Prime Minister  's admission that Pakistani terrorists or "non-state actors" were responsible for the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack.
 
  
  
 
 Without naming Mumbai attack conspirators Hafiz Saeed and Maulana Masood Azhar's terror outfits -- JuD and Jaish-e-Mohammad -- operating in the country with impunity, Sharif had said: "Militant organisations are active in Pakistan. Call them non-state actors, should we allow them to cross the border and kill over 150 people in Mumbai?"
 
 Sharif had questioned why the government and judiciary was unable to complete the Mumbai attacks-related trials that are presently stalled in a Rawalpindi anti-terrorism court. 
 
 India blamed the Pakistan-based terror group Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) for the 2008 attack on the city of Mumbai which claimed over 160 lives. Pakistan admitted the attacks were planned on its soil but denied any official involvement.
 
 The US also blames LeT for the Mumbai attacks and has offered $10 million for information leading to the arrest and conviction of Hafiz Saeed.
 
 It has on several occasions asked Islamabad to prosecute Saeed "to the fullest extent of law" and strongly condemned the decision to release the US-wanted terrorist from house arrest in November last year.
 
 Earlier in May, Saeed kicked off campaigning for the Milli Muslim League, the political front of the JuD, with an eye on the general elections in Pakistan this year.
 
 The US last month designated the Milli Muslim League as a foreign terrorist organisation, saying the banned LeT members make up MML's leadership and the so-called party openly displays Saeed's likeness in its election banners and literature.
 
 
