COIMBATORE: Going against the numerous Superme Court orders that open space reservation (OSR) land should not be used for any other purposes, collector T N Hariharan has passed an undated order to regularise OSR land at   village panchayat in S S Kulam taluk here. 

 The order issued in January, 2018 asks the block development officer, who is the special officer of   panchayat, to allow an illegally constructed sewage treatment plant (STP) to function on the land, which was earmarked for a park by   and Country Planning (DTCP).
 
 When contacted by TOI, the collector, however, retracted the order and said that he would start the process to cancel it on Wednesday itself.
 
 “I passed the order after the high court had passed an order asking the member secretary of local planning authority to take a decision on the issue. But I would cancel it immediately and would not allow the STP to function there. STP has to be shifted to another plot nearby,” said the collector.
 
 The OSR land of about 10 cents is located at a property named   meadows, constructed by Elysium properties India private limited. More than 100 houses have been constructed and the owners got building approval in 2010 for 30.56acres.
 
 C P Senthil, a resident of flushing meadows said, “We bought the property three years ago. When we came to live here, the construction of the STP had begun. But we did not realise that they were doing it illegally on OSR land. When we got to know, we filed RTI applications and collected all the details. We held meetings with the property developers and also appealed to the district collector and other officials to take appropriate action, but no action was taken.” 
 
 Following this the residents had moved to the high court. It had passed an order in 2016 that the construction was illegal and it could not be permitted. However, since it was for the public purpose, the court had asked the member secretary to check if there was any way it could be regularised within a month.
 
 The member secretary inspected the site but did not pass any orders. 
 
 However, later based on complaints from residents, the village panchayat and the block development officer inspected the STP and noted that it was not functioning as per norms. 
 
 In September 2017, the BDO passed an order that the STP would be sealed. But residents of the property petitioned the BDO against the order after which the BDO wrote to the district collector. 
 
 “The assistant director of village panchayat had asked for an opinion from member secretary on this issue. In the letter the member secretary, Dhanraj, has clearly stated that there was no scope for regularisation. He said the village panchayat could act as per government norms,” said S P  , an RTI activist.
 
 “The district collector passed an order in January asking the BDO to regularise the unlawful STP. This cannot be allowed as there are various   orders that an OSR land’s purposes could not be changed for any reason. These are the lung spaces and they should be used only for the purpose they were specified for,” Thiyagarajan added.
 
 The district collector told TOI that legal experts had already spoken to the residents and action would be taken as per the norms.
 
 
