CHENNAI: A 20-year-old college student escaped with her life when she slipped through the floor of a college bus after it caved in due to a burst tyre near  , around 35km south of Chennai, on Saturday.

 But the accident left  , a third-year student of BSc (medical laboratory technology) at Prof Dhanapalan College Of Arts and Science on Old Mahabalipuram Road, with serious injuries to her left leg, an officer with the   police said.
 
 “Amudha was returning to her house in Urapakkam when the accident took place at 3pm,” the officer said. “As the bus approached Pudupakkam, Kelambakkam, a tyre burst and the floor gave way right beneath her.”
 
 “She was in the second row of seats behind the driver when the floor collapsed and her lower body fell through the opening in the wood planking,” he said. “A police team arrived at the scene and rushed her to emergency care in a private hospital. Her condition is stable.”
 
 The circumstances of Monday’s accident differed from those of the fatal episode that claimed the life of six-year-old Shruthi Sethumadhavan, who died when she fell through a hole in the floor of a school bus in Mudichur on July 25, 2012, but it evoked instant association because of the negligence that seemed to link both cases.
 
 It also triggered an angry protest outside the hospital where the police admitted Amudha, with more than 300 students of Prof Dhanapalan College blocking traffic on   for more than 30 minutes to demand that the police take action against officials of the institution.
 
 Quoting Amudha’s collegemates, the officer said there were 16 students on the bus, all returning after the day’s classes, when the accident occurred.
 
 “Amudha was bleeding profusely when we took her to the hospital,” he said. “It took a few seconds before she cried out in pain and the other students on the bus alerted the driver and made him stop the vehicle.”
 
 Amudha’s parents arrived at the hospital shortly after the police informed them about the accident.
 
 “The student and her family chose not to file a police complaint,” the officer said. “College officials assured them that they would pay the hospital bills.”
 
 
