PUNE: In a bid to have better representation of Indian shooters at the 2020 Tokyo Games, the National Rifle Association of India ( ) is planning to field specialist teams to win mixed events quota places at the World Championships in Changwon, South Korea, in September.

 
 
 
 According to the quota rules issued by the International   Sports Federation (ISSF), the World Championships will be the only event to offer mixed events quota places. There will be three mixed team events - 10m air rifle, 10m air pistol and trap - and Tokyo will be the first host to conduct mixed team events in Olympic shooting.
 
 According to the rules, a country can either send specialist teams or can form a team from within their shooters participating in the individual events to shoot for the quota places.
 
 
 
 “Since we will have a choice to send specialist teams, we may train shooters only for the mixed events. We haven’t decided anything yet, but this will be discussed in the next meeting,” NRAI general secretary Rajiv Bhatia told TOI.
 
 Till now, the NRAI has been fielding teams by combining men and women shooters from individual categories of their respective events.
 
 Delhi will host the ISSF World Cup in February 2019. It will be the first event after the World Championships to offer quota places. Indian shooters will get the home advantage in the beginning of the season, while they will have three more World Cups and the Asian Championships to win quotas for the Tokyo Games. In all, 360 quotas will be given for the Games.
 
 NRAI joint secretary general Pawan Singh said the federation is planning to conduct the National championships in November instead of December end.
 
 Other than distributing Olympic places to the winners in various quota events, the ISSF has also introduced ranking-based quota places for the first time. In all, 12 quotas will be given to top-ranked shooters in the 12 events. Unlike the other quotas, which will belong to the countries, quotas given based on world ranking will specifically be given to the shooter.
 
