CHANDIGARH: The district education officer, UT Chandigarh, has written to the director school education (DSE) to withdraw the   of   in Sector 20, Chandigarh for anomalies in its admission process of classes XI and XII. The school had come to limelight in March 2017, when the Class XII students of this school did not get their roll numbers for board exams.

  said, “We have proposed that the recognition be withdrawn for classes XI and XII from the next academic session (2018-19).” The copy of the letter sent on January 9 is with TOI.
 
 The education department had formed a committee and conducted an inquiry. In the letter, DEO has referred to the committee’s report and stated, “There is total mismanagement of the records and lots of anomalies are visible in the admission process.”
 
 The letter further adds that the school authorities had not informed the parents of the students regarding the norms for the classes and ruined the precious time of their life by misguiding them. It was further stated that, “There is malpractice found in general administration of the school.”
 
 The report was submitted by the committee last year and had proposed to review the recognition of the school with effect from March 31, 2018 and also, to review the affiliation from CBSE.
 
 A showcause notice was issued to the principal and keeping in view the reply, the education department had first written to CBSE to withdraw the affiliation but the board had written back asking the education department to withdraw the recognition first. This was reported by TOI in July 2017.
 
 Thereafter, the department had again written to the school and, the DEO has once again written to DSE to “withdraw the recognition of the school of senior secondary level from the current academic year (2018-19).”
 
 The letter reads proposed officials have already informed the school verbally to not admit students in Class XI and XII in the new session. The school has also been warned that if anomalies are found in class X result this year then the school will be downgraded further to lower level.
 
 The school authorities could not be contacted for a comment.
 
 IN LIMELIGHT SINCE MARCH 2017
 
 In March 2017, Class XII students did not get their roll numbers for board examination
 
 On the first day of board exam, students and parents protested outside the school
 
 Education department pitched in to resolve the issue
 
 Inquiry was marked and committee was formed
 
 Committee submitted its report stating anomalies in admission process
 
 They proposed withdrawal of affiliation and asked CBSE to take action
 
 CBSE wrote back asking them to first de-recognise the school
 
 The school was again issued showcause notice
 
 Again, based on the committee’s findings, DEO has again proposed withdrawal of recognition
 
 What next?
 
 After withdrawal of recognition, CBSE will be asked to disaffiliate the school for Class XI and XII.
 
 
