MUMBAI:   is   and habitable, the   government assured Bombay   on Thursday. In an affidavit filed before a division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla, the state said it was sticking to its plan to shift over 11,000   persons to 59 buildings at the Eversmile Layout there. The state cited National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MBCP) reports that showed that the ambient   quality was within prescribed limits.

 The court is hearing petitions filed by persons objecting to rehabilitation at Mahul. Advocate Saloni Ghule, counsel for the petitioners, said the government’s affidavit did not answer queries raised by the court.
 
 The affidavit filed by Sanjay Gokhale, joint secretary in the state urban development department, said there were 8,690 persons in Mahul village and 4,755 in Ambapada village, around Eversmile. “The population around Eversmile will show the area is habitable,” said the affidavit. The state said NEERI and MPCB had carried out air quality tests, especially where the 59 buildings were, in summer and winter. “(The reports) categorically mention that all parameters of air quality in the area are within limits,” the affidavit said. 
 
 The state said the National Green Tribunal order over pollution due to the chemical factories at Mahul was based on an interim report by KEM hospital. The state had decided to approach NGT and place on record the new air quality reports. 
 
 The state said it allotted 11,633 flats at Eversmile to project-affected persons, including 5,862 families who had encroached on the Tansa water pipeline. The government said it would direct the Slum Rehabilitation Authority to carry out repairs in the 17 buildings that were reportedly in bad condition and make them habitable within eight months, before handing them over to BMC. Earlier this year, the court said it was the “obligation of the state government to ensure premises allotted to BMC for allotting them to project-affected persons are in good and habitable condition”.
 
 The state said if a decision was taken now not to allot the flats in Eversmile, it would amount to discrimination against other similarly situated PAPs who have taken possession and started living in Mahul. The HC has scheduled further hearing of the petitions on Friday.
 
 
