Imagine a resident of Sector 15, Chandigarh, gets injured at home. His family will have to rush him to Sector 16 or 32 hospitals even to get first aid. It might be difficult to believe but Sector 51 lacks a dispensary. Time and again, the residents have raised concerns to start a dispensary in the area but the authorities have failed to take any decision on the matter.

 Around 35,000 residents of Sector 51, who are residing in the area for the past 15 years, have been demanding a government school, dispensary, market, community centre and bus stop in their area. But no solution has been found.
  
 
 During a roundtable conversation, which the TOI conducted on Saturday with the   (CWS) of Sector 51, the residents shared their grievances. Interestingly, there are a few projects for which even sites have been earmarked almost a decade ago but the projects are yet to see the light of the day.
 
 
 The residents are running from pillar to post to get the projects implemented, but all in vain.
 
 
 The residents said 14 years ago, a land was earmarked by the   for the construction of a school in the sector. Till date, nothing has been done by the concerned departments. The working women of the area are also having a tough time to find a crèche for their kids in the sector.
 
 
 S S Bhardwaj, president of CWS said that the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) has taken the maintenance charges of the parks located in Sector 51 for the next five years. However, when it comes to development and maintenance, the parks are in a bad shape. “Since the parks are not properly maintained, the swings got rust,” he said.
 
 
 When it comes to health services, the condition is even worse. The sector lacks a dispensary. The residents said in the presence of a dispensary, the patients can at least get preliminary treatment. The residents have raised several concerns, but nothing has been done on the matter.
 
 
 There is also no community centre in the area also to cater to the needs of the residents. The nearby model jail Burial has its own community centre but it is not accessible to the public. During the inauguration of the jail, city MP Kirron Kher had proposed to construct another entry gate on the other side of the community centre so that the residents can use it.
 
 
 However, the residents have been left disappointed because no action has been taken on the matter yet. In fact, the residents said whenever they raise the issue with the jail authorities they said it might affect the security of the jail.
 
 
 The residents have also been demanding a bus stop on V3 road of Sector 51 as the commuters have to walk for a long distance to reach the ‘one and only’ bus stand located near model jail Burial. Also, the residents want the authorities to install traffic lights on V3 and V5 road as soon as possible to ensure the safety of the commuters. In fact, the residents have been struggling to get street lights installed on the 4km stretch on V5 road but till date the authorities have not taken any action on it. Resident A K Mandal said, “Rs 25 lakh was sanctioned for the installation of street lights in the last term of the MC but nothing happened,” he said.
 
 
 A C Gogia, vice president of CWS, said, “There is no speed breaker on V4 and V5 roads, which increases the chances of accidents.”
 
 
 There is a vacant land in colony number 5 and the residents demand that the authorities should make use of the plot as soon as possible, else the place will become a  
 
