NEW DELHI: Finance secretary   on Tuesday said the government recognised the role of private capital and the role of intermediaries in financial markets, but has proposed long-term capital gains ( ) tax on shares and equity mutual funds to bring parity.

 
 “We do appreciate the role of private capital investment in equity market as also the role of financial intermediaries, who are keeping stock market vibrant. There is no intention of undermining their role in the process,” Adhia said.
 
 At a post-Budget meeting organised by PHD Chamber of Commerce he tried to explain the rationale of LTCG, saying that when all other factors of production such as, wage employment, where after hard labour one gets salary, are also subject to full taxation, it is not a good idea to keep any one class of investment completely exempt from taxation.
 
 The statement came as he sought to comfort market players and reiterated that the decline in stock market indices was led by global factors. “What happened on February 2 and February 5 was mainly because of global shake-up that was happening. Of course there is a ripple effect of whatever happens in the world on Indian stock market. Most of it is because of the global market otherwise the sensex and the nifty would have come down on the first and the second day (of Budget),” Adhia said, adding that India remained an attractive investment option as foreign investors were net buyers in Indian equities on Monday.
 
 Adhia said an investor has option to invest in fixed deposits, start-up and unlisted equity or immovable property or in equity-linked mutual fund or directly into equity market. While all long-term capital gains are taxed, those in equity markets were exempt from the levy since 2004.
 
 “If you exempt any one out of four-to-five investment class out of taxation then it is very much possible that most people would like to park their funds in such an asset, which has no tax incidence and if the supply of money is too much for one asset class, naturally the valuation should increase of that particular asset class.”
 
