PANAJI: Ninety-two people tested positive for the human immunodeficiency virus ( ) in Goa in the first three months of 2018, translating into one case being detected each day. This is a significant improvement from a decade ago, when over two HIV+ cases were recorded per day.

  
  
 
 While men constituted 60% of the total number of HIV+ cases in the first trimester of this year, no transgenders and transsexuals were detected with the condition for the second year in a row. 
 
 Mormugao continued to be the taluka with the highest number of HIV+ cases (27%), while Salcete came in second at 16%. Bardez, the taluka that had in the past years reported the second-highest and, sometimes, highest number of HIV+ cases in the state, accounted for only six of the total cases in the first three months of 2018. No new cases were reported from Sattari, Sanguem and Canacona.
 
 The predominant mode of transmission of HIV has continued to be the sexual route, with over 90% of such cases reported. Transmission modes involving infected syringes, needles, blood and blood products have been negligible in the state.
 
 Although five deaths due to acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) were reported in January and February this year, chief medical officer of the Goa State AIDS Control Society (GSACS), Dr Chandrakant Parab, said the launch of the ‘test and treat’ policy last April is expected to reduce the number of AIDS-related deaths further. Under the policy, anyone diagnosed as an HIV+ patient is put on antiretroviral therapy (ART), irrespective of the clinical stage or CD4 count—a snapshot of how the patient’s immune system is functioning. In the past, ART, which suppresses the activity of the HIV retrovirus, was recommended only in cases where it was considered necessary.
 
 Since the implementation of the ‘test and treat’ policy, more than 370 HIV+ persons have been put on ART in a phased manner in the state. 
 
 “ART, which can slow down the rate at which HIV weakens the immune system, is now administered to everybody: Men, women, adolescents and children,” Parab said, pointing out that the move is expected to keep their immune system strong and healthy and improve their longevity and quality of life. 
 
 Parab said the elimination of stigma is vital to ensure that people who have the slightest doubt of their status voluntarily come forward to get tested and seek treatment. “Those indulging in risky behaviour must also protect themselves, as HIV is 100% preventable,” he added.
 
 
