GUWAHATI: Alert Railway Protection Force ( ) personnel thwarted a trafficking attempt at Rangiya railway station in Kamrup district on Monday, rescuing five minor boys between 13 and 17 years old who were about to be taken to Nepal illegally. 

 "The boys were in line to book tickets to   in West Bengal. Suddenly, two strangers approached them and asked them to follow. The plain-clothed security personnel noticed the suspicious move, intervened and arrested them. They were then handed over to the government railway police," police sources said.
 
 The boys have been handed over to the Kamrup unit of   and were produced before the   here on Wednesday. 
 
 A man identified as   is suspected to be at the centre of the trafficking ring. He had brought the boys to the station and asked them to book the tickets as he stood at a distance, the boys told police. When security personnel stepped in, he is thought to have made a run for it. "Hailing from Kamrup's   area, 40 km from here, the boys were being trafficked by Prashanta Rabha. He was taking them to Nepal on the pretext of giving them jobs. Rabha is on the run now," Erani Boro, project coordinator of the Kamrup unit of Childline, told TOI.
 
 Police identified the two persons who were arrested as Rajib Modahi and Hemanta Modahi, suspected to have links with Rabha. Both of them are being questioned by police.
 
 The state has been grappling with trafficking and kidnapping of minors. "In 2017, the RPF rescued at least 515 minors and arrested 11 traffickers. This year, the RPF has rescued 170 children so far," Pranav Jyoti Sharma, chief public relations officer of Northeast Frontier Railway, said. In 2016, police records state, 130 minors were trafficked and only 37 rescued.
 
 Boys who fall victim to trafficking usually land in factories in metro cities while girls are forced into marriage, sexual exploitation or engaged as domestic help. The spurt in fake job placement services, which are fronts for trafficking rings, has remained unchecked as no mechanism to address the problem has been put in place yet.
 
 
