NEW DELHI: There were will no less than four notices of no-confidence when the House meets on Tuesday but the possibility of any being taken up remains in balance with all eyes on   after Telangana Rashtra Samithi decided to call off its disruptive actions.

 
 The House, despite   deciding that its MPs will not disrupt proceedings, may continue to remain in disorder if AIADMK MPs persist in going into the well to press their demand that the Centre set up a Cauvery Management Board in keeping with the Supreme Court’s order on sharing of the river waters. AIADMK sources said there is no rethink as yet.
 
 The government said it is ready for any of the no-confidence motions being taken up. “We are ready as there is no issue with our numbers and we have a lot to say. We have not been able to make our point on issues like the bank scam or stealing of data as   is stalled,” said minister of state for parliamentary affairs Vijay Goel. 
 
 TRS leader Jitendra Reddy said “We have made our point sufficiently. We will be ready to speak in the course of any discussion in the House.” So far, Speaker Sumitra Mahajan has said that she is unable to make out who have risen in support of the no-confidence motion in the din and disruption.
 
  on Monday became the fourth party to give notice for a no-confidence motion in the Lok Sabha. The Left party’s no-confidence motion was served by its leader in   P Karunakaran.   had given the notice on Friday in addition to two such notices from TDP and YSR Congress. 
 
 “Parliament is meant for debate. It is sad that opposition leaders can debate outside and on TV channels but not in Parliament. It is also strange for some of them to keep protesting in the well of the two Houses and then say that it is the government’s job to run Parliament,” said Goel.
 
 Goel had met opposition leaders seeking their cooperation to conduct the House proceedings which remained disrupted since the session resumed on March 5. The ruling party is trying to ensure smooth functioning of the House in remaining days after the passage of the Gratuity Amendment Bill in the Rajya Sabha last week. 
 
 Arjun Ram Meghwal, who is also a minister of state for parliamentary affairs, said it is difficult for the Speaker to take up notices for no-confidence motions as long as members are present in the well of the House.
 
 
