KOLKATA: Royal Challenger Bangalore’s quest for maiden   title will depend much on how their bowlers perform this time. Mostly regarded as a batting-heavy unit, RCB have focused on their bowling arsenal in this players’ auction thereby putting up a good balanced side.

 
 Skipper Virat Kohli will hope youngsters   and   will be able to carry on their good show from the recently-concluded tri-nation T20 series in Sri Lanka where both the spinners picked up eight wickets from five matches.
 
 Sundar is happy to see his hard work is paying dividends now as he conceded less than six an over throughout the tournament to win the Man-of-the-Series award too.
 
 “I feel really happy to see the hard work and effort that I put in my preparation is paying off in the middle,” Sundar told TOI at the team hotel on Friday.
 
 The youngster hoped he along with Chahal, will be able to deliver for RCB too this season. “Having an off-spinner and leg-spinner adds lot of potential to the side. I really wish Chahal and I come good for the franchise this time,” he said.
 
 Sundar said the two have already developed a rapport. “We have an understanding. If one of us went for runs, the other tries to restrict the batsmen and we exchange notes in between overs too,” he said.
 
 Chahal too is happy with the way Sundar is shouldering responsibility. “Washington is a matured guy for his age,” he said. “It’s good to have someone who can bowl two-three overs in the Powerplay so that I can come in the middle overs in some matches or even both of us can bowl in tandem in Powerplay. That gives added option to the team,” he said.
 
 Sundar, who bowled 13 of his 20 overs of the tri-series in the Powerplay, feels bowling in the first six overs is an opportunity. “I see it more as an opportunity rather than challenge as once you succeed there it gives you a lot of confidence,” he stated.
 
 The Tamil Nadu off-spinner is aware of the fact that his recent success will make the rival teams study him closely.
 
 “With so many cameras all around these days, people get to know what you do from A to Z. But I feel it’s not necessary to change the way you do certain things. What it important is not to be predictable and so the way you think has to be a bit different at this level of the game,” he said.
 
 Both the spinners agreed having Virat Kohli as skipper is a big plus for them. “The kind of cricket he (Virat) plays has inspired a lot of youngsters including me. I hope to grow under him,” Sundar said.
 
 For Chahal, Kohli has brought lot of changes in his approach. “Virat helped me a lot both on and off the field. I was such a shy guy in front of the cameras. But he has given me lot of confidence that has helped my style of bowling,” Chahal confessed.
 
