 Tension erupted when parents of the children killed in the DPS school bus accident came face to face with the school principal and teachers at a meeting in the collectorate on Tuesday. The distraught parents allegedly heckled and manhandled some school staff, accusing them of failing to ensure safety of students. 

 The family of one of the dead children alleged that the school is not handing over the child's belongings, like her schoolbag and shoes. The parents, who had earlier accused the school of threatening children to stop them from speaking to the media, confronted them as soon as they emerged from the meeting. 
 
 
 
 
 Things escalated quickly when the parents came to know that principal Sudarshan Sonar was holding a discussion with one of the parents’ representatives, Dr Irdis Ahmed Khan, in a room.
 
 “After the accident, the principal did not even think of meeting the parents. Dr Khan was working as ‘dummy representative’ of the parents as his selection as parent representative was not done through fair means,” advocate Vaibhav Bansal, who is representing the parents, told TOI. Family members of Shruti Ludhiyani, Kriti Agrawal and Harmeet Kaur, gheraoed the principal in the corridor. “It’s more than 10 days, yet we have not received any sort of assurance from you regarding safety of our children. Most of your buses are old and not fit to ferry children. You must tell us what safety arrangements have been taken,” the agitated parents asked Sonar. He replied that most of their buses are new and they are following all safety guidelines. The principal’s claims angered parents even more and they started raising slogans and demanded his resignation. “You must take responsibility for the accident and resign immediately,” they shouted at Sonar.
 
 Seeing the tension rising, SDM Shringaar Shrivastava intervened. “You are instigating parents for the protest. I will see you outside,” Shrivastava told Bansal, and escorted Sonar and Khan out of the administrative block. The duo refused to speak to the media. Earlier, parents had objected to some DPS teachers attending a meeting called by ADM Ruchika Chouhan to receive evidence related to the accident along with feedback and inputs to avert a repeat of the horror. After the meeting, Harmeet’s mother allegedly slapped a teacher.
 
 Explaining why the anguished mother lost her temper, Harmeet’s uncle Satnam Singh said, “Even after the bus accident that killed five persons, the school management is not handing over the school bag, shoes and other belongings of Harmeet. We have requested them on different occasions but to no avail.”
 
 
