PATNA: Even though the winter conditions are yet to be formally over in  , the weather has changed from cold to fairly warm in the last three to four days.

 The maximum temperature in   is being recorded three to four degrees C above normal and the minimum temperature above 10 degrees C. Winter is considered to have ended when the minimum temperature remains above 13 degrees C for four or more consecutive days at this time of the year. 
 
 According to Met sources, such a situation is gradually unfolding as even night readings in Patna and several other places hover around 10 degrees C thse days, but it was recorded at 13.4 degrees C in Bhagalpur on Monday.
 
 The maximum temperature in Patna on Monday was 27.8 degrees C, three notches above the normal. The weatherman claimed the minimum and maximum readings would continue to rise over the next three days due to gradual departure of foggy conditions in the region.
 
 However, the   ( ) is expecting a change in the current weather conditions around February 9 for a few days owing to approaching western disturbances (WDs). The WDs are low-pressure areas or extra-tropical storms originating from the Mediterranean Sea, Red Sea and Caspian Sea, which cause winter snow or rainfalls in northwest Indian subcontinent.
 
 The IMD’s all-India weather bulletin on Monday evening stated a series of WDs was likely to move across the northern-most parts of India over the next five days. The cloud cover may continue over parts of north-west India during the next two days and over the eastern India during the subsequent period.
 
 The national weather forecasting agency also issued a warning for a likely thunderstorm accompanied with hailstorm at isolated places over  , Gangetic West Bengal and Odisha on February 9.
 
 On the other hand, the weatherman at Patna said only northern parts of the state were likely to be affected by the upcoming WDs. The temperature at a few places in the state, particularly in north Bihar, may dip by one or two notches on February 9, but will come back to normal within a couple of days.
 
 The weatherman further said that though hazy skies or shallow fog might continue for a few days, there is least possibility of the comeback of dense foggy conditions. 
 
 
