NAGPUR: Unhappy with the state forest department’s inaction against senior officers over rampant mining in reserve forest and in Pachgaon, Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court has directed principal secretary (forests) to remain present in the court on June 6 to explain gross violations.

 
 The order issued on May 5, 2018, by a two-judge bench consisting of Justice BP Dharmadhikari and Justice AD Upadhye, observed that the department has failed to act against the culprits. The order was issued on criminal applications filed by two retired foresters Laxmanrao Shende and Dilip Pawar in December 2015 through their counsel Rajendra Daga after it was treated as a PIL in December 2017.
 
 The HC expressed dissatisfaction over non-cooperation by respondent-forest department to proceed against real culprits in the Pachgaon case. TOI was first to expose illegal mining and quarrying in the area in 2013.
 
 Earlier, on May 6, 2015 in criminal application filed by miner Anil Bhable to quash charge sheet against him,   had ordered lodging of FIRs for offences under the Indian Forest Act ( ) and IPC against officers/employees for abetment. The court had also directed to quantify the amount of loss and its recovery from each of them, including the petitioner. The HC had asked to complete the process in two months and departmental enquiry (DE) in six months. But even after three years, there has been no action. Whatever action that has been taken is against forest guards and foresters and senior IFS and MFS officials are being spared by the PCCF’s office.
 
 According to top sources, ahead of the HC hearing on June 6, 2018, there were hectic deliberations among senior IFS officers, who had decided to spare three IFS officers who were heading the Nagpur division during 2002-2012 when illegal quarrying was going on in Pachgaon. Interestingly, all these officers have been promoted instead of serving charge sheets.
 
 Earlier, applicants Shende and Pawar had pleaded that they retired in 2006 and as per pension rules they cannot be prosecuted four years post-retirement. But the HC said the matter must be looked in public interest as large damage to forest and huge loss of royalty has taken place.
 
 The court on August 30, 2016, directed that not proceeding against the responsible officials four years after their retirement is unsustainable. It has also observed that this period may be relevant for initiating departmental enquiry, but it has no bearing on criminal prosecution.
 
 Against this background, the HC observed that respondent is not cooperating and gave a last chance to place the record and findings before it on June 6, 2018 and directing forest secretary to be present in the court.
 
 Interestingly, even after lapse of more than three years no departmental enquiries (DE) for misconduct against erring officials, including senior IFS officers, have been initiated nor offences against them have been registered.
 
 
