CHENNAI: In a revival of a traditional drought relief measure, 15 tanks of temples maintained by the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department in the city are set to get   harvesting wells. Recharge   dug within these water bodies were a source of water during periods of drought in the past. While some temples in Chennai retain the wells inside their tanks, many have disappeared, covered by silt. Water experts, however, are divided over the proposal; some term it irrelevant.

 The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board is the nodal agency for the project being executed by Greater Chennai Corporation under the Sustainable Water Security Mission. “As per the proposal, we will desilt the   to a depth of 1.2m. The tanks will have wells at a depth of 15ft. We will also install chambers around the tanks to divert runoff rainwater from the streets into them,” said a corporation official.
 
 Wells dug inside the tanks improve groundwater recharge in the neighbourhood, the official added. Between four and 12 wells would be created in every tank, depending on the tank’s size. The identified 15 tanks include those at Ekambareswarar temple,   temple and Chenna Kesavaperumal temple in Parry’s, Thiruvetteswarar temple in Triplicane and   temple in Kaladipet. Corporation officials said a consultant appointed for the purpose prepared a detailed project report to rejuvenate the tanks in which the construction of wells has been suggested. The proposal has been sent to the Tamil Nadu Urban Infrastructure Financial Services Limited (TNUIFSL) seeking allocation of Rs 2.03 crore to execute the work, said an official.
 
 Hydrogeologist J Saravanan said recharge wells were constructed within water bodies several centuries ago. “Wells in ponds could be found in southern districts, particularly in Ramanathapuram. The entire village would draw water from these wells during drought,” he said. “Several temple tanks across Tamil Nadu also had wells,” he said. The tank of the Madhava Perumal temple in Mylapore has one. Not everyone is enthused. Sekhar Raghavan, director of Rain Centre, an NGO working for water conservation and harvesting, said the move is unlikely to yield results since the tanks themselves served the purpose of percolation and storage. The wells would be effective only if they went to a depth of 30ft. 
 
 “Instead, authorities must concentrate on diverting adequate runoff rainwater to the tanks. Moreover, educating residents living in the vicinity on rainwater harvesting on their premises is key because it would improve the water table and have a positive impact on maintaining water levels in the tanks,” he said.
 
 
