NEW DELHI: It may take Delhi a while before it becomes a   city, as envisioned by the   in its latest  . In spite of a  , which was hailed by  , and a   ( ) for residential solar rooftop projects, solar projects haven’t really taken off in the residential sector. 

 From September 2016 to March 2017, only 31 residents had availed of the GBI — after March 2017, about 300 residents may have done so, according to data with Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Management Centre (EEREM).
 
 The Delhi government, in its solar policy, had introduced a GBI of Rs 2 per unit (kWh) for residential consumers. It is being offered for three years only, on a first-come-first-serve basis with a budget of Rs 10 crore for the first year, Rs 20 crore for 2017-18 and Rs 30 crore for 2018-19. But the response was so tepid that, in the first year, only a few lakhs were used to fund GBI and, in 2017-18, the GBI disbursement might be just about Rs 1 crore. Discoms will start disbursing the GBI for 2017-18 next month based on net-metering data from these households. The minimum criterion for availing of GBI is to generate 1,100 solar energy units (kWh) per year per kWp. For solar rooftop plants that generate less than 1,100 units (kWh) per kWp a year, the GBI facility will not apply.
 
  
 EEREM officials said there were many reasons for the poor show. “Apart from placing ads in leading newspapers about the GBI facility, we wrote letters to many residential societies about group rooftop systems, but their decision-making process has been very slow. Some other residents were also concerned about solar panels occupying their roof space for 25 years. They informed us that it can be a financial constraint since there are no easy loans available,” a senior EEREM official told TOI.
 
 The cost-benefit analysis by EEREM revealed that the major cost benefit from solar rooftop systems is for consumers who consume more than 400 units. “For a 10 to 20 KW solar rooftop system, the tariff will be Rs 4 per unit compared to Rs 7 to Rs 8 per unit for those consuming more than, say, 400 units of conventional energy. The solar rooftop systems are best suited to reduce your peak load and bringing you to a lower power slab,” the official added. 
 
 Solar rooftop systems have, however, done pretty well in government projects. The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation, for example, has installed 16 MW, Railways 5 MW, the Airports Authority of India 8 MW, IIT Delhi 2 MW, Delhi Jal Board 8 MW, Delhi Secretariat 2 MW and the industrial training and polytechnic institutes, together, have more than 6-7 MW, according to EEREM. Government projects are getting 25% subsidy for timely installation by the ministry of new and renewable energy (MNRE). Delhi currently has a total installed capacity of about 85 MW against a target of 312 MW for 2018 in Delhi’s solar policy. 
 
 Out of the 85 MW, only 5 MW may be from the residential sector. To meet the solar energy target, the Delhi government has just entered into an MoU with all government schools, which can help generate about 100 MW only from schools. To begin with, tendering for about 30 MW in schools will be done by May-June. “Even if the residential sector is slow, Delhi is leading by installing rooftop projects in government buildings. We are coming up with strategies to popularise solar rooftop in the residential sector this year,” the official added. One of the strategies being implemented is a single-window portal created with help from MNRE to connect interested residents with Discoms. This will also have a call centre facility and all information that the customer may require.
 
 Experts and researchers are not surprised with the lukewarm response from residents. “There has been no push either from Delhi government or the Centre to reach out to residents. While Delhi government has been touting its work in the health and education sector, Centre has pushed campaigns like Make in India and Swachh Bharat. There has been no effort to publicise solar energy. Just having a policy is not enough. Are we paying lip service to renewable energy? Another issue is that the GBI is not a lot of money. May be a heftier incentive would have attracted more residents,” Pujarini Sen, climate and energy campaigner at Greenpeace India, said.
 
 A BSES official told TOI: “In 2016-17, we disbursed a GBI of Rs 1-2 lakh only, but this year, we are going to give Rs 18 lakh. This shows that people are slowly getting interested and realising the economic benefits of solar energy in the long run. BSES is fully committed to the objectives of promoting renewables like rooftop solar energy. It is among the few utilities in India that is engaged in actively propagating the rooftop solar installations and facilitating customers through direct marketing efforts. We have been actively educating customers about the solar rooftop net metering policy and its beneficial impact on their electricity bill. BSES has energised over 600 rooftop solar net metering connections, largest done by any discom in the country, with an installed capacity of over 25 MW.” 
 
 
 
