MADURAI: Concerned about the poor performance of students in academics, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court has formed a sixmember committee to come up with suggestions so that preventive measures can be taken. A division bench of justices S   and T   was hearing a petition filed by a person named S   from   seeking to produce his daughter who went missing on December 22, before the court. The girl walked out of home after her father scolded her for not performing well in her studies. Adhering to the court’s direction, the Melapalayam police produced her before the court. The father assured the court that he would support his daughter.

 To avoid such recurrences in future, the court wanted to take some preventive steps and constituted the committee headed by director of technical education. The other members include the director of school and collegiate education, vice-chancellor of Alagappa University, S Subbiah, senior consultant psychiatrist C Ramasubramanian and registrar of NIMHANS, Bengaluru, K Sekar.
 
 The committee should explore and analyse the current education scenario in the state in terms of examination system, parent-teacher interaction, support available to students (academic, psychological and mechanisms), strength of co-curricular activities, challenges faced by the children and the concerns of teachers, parents and educational administrators.
 
 The committee is also required to explore the best practices in the state that promotes emotional well-being of students and the best practices in parent and teacher collaborations. It should complete the task in 10 days after receipt of court order.
 
 The bench said, “Education is an ongoing process and as a result, the students are responsible for being cognizant of issues and changing trend within the society. In recent times, we eventually come across several incidents that unravelled the deviant behaviours of student population, namely, students committing suicide, students killing teachers, students eloping with the other sex, students either themselves involved in drug addiction / trafficking or being entangled in those problems etc.”
 
 It also said, “The mental health and well-being of the student population did not get the deserved attention. Students experience significant stress in some form or the other in their lives. Some stresses are part of the normal growing up, while others are more environmental like parental conflict, divorce, physical and sexual abuses, pressure on academic achievement, peer pressures, etc. They suffer from an emotional or behavioural disorder during their younger ages, regardless of where they live and how economically they are. They remain silent sufferers for a long time with majority of the families being unaware or ignorant of the ongoing inner emotional turmoil of their children.”
 
