GURUGRAM: In an attempt to highlight the government's apathy towards resident's complaints, a   farmer has placed a big bet to get the state government's attention.   placed a cheque of Rs 10 lakh along with his complaint, and submitted it to the CM Window on February 18. He alleged an acre of land originally earmarked for a gaushala in   village, has been illegally occupied by local land mafia in connivance with MCG officials. 

 A copy of the complaint, accessed by TOI, states the government can en-cash the Rs 10 lakh cheque if the complaint is found invalid, and use it under the CM Relief Fund. However, if the complaint is valid, the government must act against those involved. 
 
 "This land was earlier under the village panchayat. It was later transferred to MCG. Subsequently, local land mafia, along with some MCG officials, have encroached on an acre of the land marked for the gaushala," said Lamba. He added he is certain of the scam and wanted the government to act on it immediately, hence the gesture of putting the cheque in the complaint. 
 
 Lamba used to be the village sarpanch years ago. Now he does farming and is involved with social issues. "I made the complaint just because I saw something wrong happening. Beyond that, I have no connection with the land," said Lamba.
 
 His gesture did have the desired effect, as the matter caught chief minister  's attention, who has now ordered an inquiry into the matter. 
 
 "The chief minister has asked us to conduct and inquiry into the role of officials, and submit the report within the next few weeks," said MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav.
 
  On Saturday, Lamba was called to the district grievance committee meeting in  's presence. "My matter was listed in the meeting, and I was called there in the presence of the CM. I was told an FIR has been filed against those involved," said Lamba. 
 
  The FIR has been filed under sections 188 (disobedience of order by public servant), 447 (criminal trespass) and 34 (common intent) of the IPC, against Surender Mandal, Sunil Gulia and Upender Malik , all residents of Chauma village. Lamba though is not fully satisfied yet, as no action has been taken against MCG officials who he alleged are involved in the fraud. 
 
 
