Madurai: The fourth phase of excavation work at Keezhadi, where the independent river-based civilisation that could be attributed of Sangam era (300 BC – 300 AD), is likely to commence in two months time. However, trouble is brewing among farmers in the village, as they feel that excavation carried out in coconut groves will affect farming. They feel that they deserve some compensation for allowing excavation work. Keezhadi came to the centrestage in the last three years after Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), looking for a river-based civilisation on the banks of Vaigai river narrowed down the spot and started undertaking work at Pallisanthaithidal, an area surrounded by coconut groves in the village. Two years of excavation in the first two phases of 2014–16 unearthed a whopping 4,800 antiquities, including iron implements, semi-precious stones and earthenware of local and foreign origins. The excavation also brought out structures indicating that the civilisation was urban in character and people were literate. Under these circumstances, the third phase ran into trouble over the transfer of superintending archaeologist, K Amarnath Ramakrishna but the third phase continued after pressure from political parties and outfits. But the eight trenches in the third phase, when compared to 43 and 53 trenches in the first two phases did not throw up much other than glass beads and as expected was the work wound up. As demand for continuing the excavation mounted, state archaeology minister, K Pandiarajan announced that the state archaeology department will undertake the fourth phase after the monsoon. A grant of Rs 55 lakh will be sanctioned for the work, he had said in October last year. State archaeology department sources said that the work would likely to commence in two weeks and they are awaiting orders on the fund allocation. However, local farmers rue that the excavation site has turned into a tourist spot, with hundreds of people visiting the place. Moreover, the coconut trees in the grove, where the excavation works were carried out, are not yielding coconuts like before. There is a growing demand that they should get some remuneration for providing lands for excavation. “It is not that people are against excavation works at Keezhadi but there is a feeling among farming community that they should get some monetary compensation for the lands provided for excavation,” former president of Keezhadi, V Venkatasubramaniam said. Three months ago there was a protest at Keezhadi where villagers gheraoed ASI officials who tried to move the antiquities from the village. A peace committee was formed where this issue was discussed. ASI or local revenue departments failed to take them in good books and the frustration is evident among the land owners. “It is not unified response of farmers as well. Many are willing to give their lands for excavation works”, Venkatasubramaniam added.