GURUGRAM: On January 6, an Accredited Social Health Activist (Asha) worker named Savita left her home in the morning to get medicines from the nearest health centre in her village, Siwadi, in Farrukhnagar. Three weeks have passed, but she has not returned home, leaving her husband and two sons worried. Her co-workers approached   police station and the DCP for help in locating Savita, but there hasn’t been any substantial action yet, said her co-workers. 

 “We’ve been frequenting the police station, but every time, they send us back with false assurances,” said Sudesh, the head of Farrukhnagar Asha workers. Around six months ago, another Asha worker from Faridabad had died in a road accident on her way to work. Sudesh said while such an incident could happen to anyone, all they are asking for are insurance benefits and assistance in case of such an accident. She added that despite being social activists working towards improving mortality rates and increasing the sex ratio,   — employed under the   scheme since 2014 — lead a difficult life plagued by anonymity.
 
 The government defines Asha work to include promotion of universal immunisation, referral escort services for reproductive and child health, other childcare programmes and construction of household toilets. They also serve as health activists in every village, to create awareness about health and social practices.
 
 Rani, a 45-year-old Asha worker from Naharpur in Gurugram, said, “We have no set schedule. Sometimes, people knock on our doors even at midnight for help. Around a year ago, I had to go for a delivery at around 1am,” she said. Most often when they return home, they are met with abuses from their husbands and family members because given the extremely low wages, their jobs aren’t taken seriously. 
 
 Rajnish, another Asha worker from Rajendra Park, said they are often insulted and ridiculed during home visits. “People ask us what our job is, and abuse us. There’s also a threat of being hurt at times. It’s extremely difficult to convince people to break traditions and adopt healthy practices.”
 
 Asha women are also expected to educate village women about family planning, female foeticide and gender discrimination. Rajnish recalled an old woman in  , who asked for help for her married daughter, who was being assaulted. “I reached out to the persons concerned and got the matter resolved. In most cases, we try to empower women, instead of meddling in their family affairs which could offend family members,” she said. Surveys for most of the birth-related data recorded by the state government is also done by these women.
 
 Rani said Asha workers have a big hand in bringing down India’s mortality rate and in improving Haryana’s sex ratio, but the government isn’t ready to give them basic employment benefits, let alone recognise their contribution towards these social indicators. 
 
 Over the last week, hundreds of Asha workers have been assembling daily before the Gurugram deputy commissioner’s office to demand better work conditions. “We work round the clock. Our jobs entail high risk. We’re often held responsible for complications that arise during or before childbirth. Yet, we’re only paid Rs 1,000, and incentives ranging between Rs 50, Rs 75 and Rs 125,” said Surekha, chief secretary of Asha Workers Union (AWU),  . She added their demands include that Asha workers be made permanent and paid minimum wages of Rs 18,000 per month. They also demand benefits under the Employee Insurance Scheme and Provident Fund. The protests will continue till January. 
 
 Rajinder Singh, district secretary of Centre of Indian Trade Unions, who works with AWU, said even though the government started Asha as a time-bound project, it has now been going on for over a decade, and deserves proper status.
 
