LUCKNOW/MEERUT: In a scathing attack on the BJP government,   president   on Thursday said while chief minister   was busy campaigning in poll-bound Karnataka and assuring people there of better law and order under BJP rule, murderers are having a field day in UP. At a press conference in the capital city, the former CM raised the issue of the recent spate of killings across the state, including the sensational murder of a lawyer in Allahabad on Thursday morning.
 
  “The murder of a lawyer in Allahabad in full public view is a manifestation of the fact that the law and order machinery has collapsed in the state. Police are resorting to fake encounters targeting innocents and are busy terrorizing opposition parties to silence them,”   said, adding that the fake encounters are having no impact on real criminals. “Had the encounters been genuine, criminals could not have dared to commit murders and get away,” he said.
  
  Reading out a list of recent murders that have rocked the state, Akhilesh said the murder of BJP leader Mukesh Prajapati in Rae Bareli, that of BJP corporator Pawan Kesari in Allahabad and of Sachin Walia, brother of the district president of Bhim Army, were clear examples of how the government has failed to deliver on the law and order front.
  
  The SP chief also took up the issue of Narendra Gujar, who was arrested by the   police on charges of smuggling beef and later died in jail on April 24. Narendra, according to his family members who were present at the press conference, was tortured by police in custody as a result of which he died in jail. Akhilesh demanded a compensation of Rs 50 lakh for the aggrieved family.
  
  The SP leader said that the youth was framed in a fake case and he later succumbed to police torture. “Narendra was framed in a fake case and later died of police torture. The police department is going out of the way to torture innocent people. The BJP is trying to create an atmosphere of fear,” he said.
  
  Meanwhile, Narendra’s family alleged that the local BJP unit has been pressuring them against taking up the issue with the higher authorities. “Our family, on the pretext of being provided help, was summoned to Meerut circuit house on Tuesday night where local BJP MLAs discouraged us from meeting Akhilesh Yadav,” Jitendra Rana, the brother of the deceased, said.
  
  Apart from compensation and a government job, the family is firm on its demand for justice. “We want a murder case against all erring cops. The department had promised us that cops would be booked, but it has now turned hostile,” Amit Rana, a relative of Narendra, said.
