PATNA: Nearly 4,000 students have submitted online applications for admission to three-year graduation courses in arts, science and commerce in different colleges of Patna   (PU) in five days. The deadline for registration and online submission of forms is May 14.

 According to PU students’ welfare dean N K Jha, online submission is gaining momentum gradually with more and more students applying for admissions. 
 
 “Even though admission to all undergraduate ( ) courses will be made on the basis of the performance of candidates in the entrance tests, many are waiting for the publication of Class XII results. The number of online applications is expected to increase following the announcement of results by the Bihar School Examination Board, Central Board of Secondary Education and Indian School Certificate,” Jha said.
 
 There are at least 3,500 seats in arts, science and commerce streams in all colleges of the university, except Patna Women’s College (PWC), where admissions are made on the basis of common entrance test conducted by PU. There are 1,650 seats (600 each in Patna College and B N College and 450 in Magadh Mahila College) in arts stream and 650 seats (400 in Vanijya Mahavidyalaya and 250 in Magadh Mahila College under self-financing scheme) in commerce stream. Besides, in the faculty of science, there are altogether 1,206 seats, including 600 in Patna Science College, 350 in B N College and 256 in Magadh Mahila College.
 
 PWC, which is also a constituent unit of PU, has 600 seats in BA Part-I, 250 in BSc Part-I and 300 in BCom Part-I under the self-financing scheme. But this college admits students to its different courses on its own, without participating in the common entrance test conducted by PU.
 
 According to instructions issued by the university, a printed copy of the online application form along with self-attested copies of documents like Class X marksheet, Class XII admit card, caste certificate and quota certificate (if any) will be accepted in the colleges concerned by speed post or by hand. The colleges will keep the copy arranged coursewise and as per the serial number given on the printed copy.
 
 Colleges where courses in computer applications (BCA or MCA) are running have been directed to provide necessary infrastructure and resource persons to the needy applicants in filling up online application forms. Once registration is done, an application ID will be sent to the candidate’s cellphone number and e-mail id.
 
 PU has made it clear that a mobile number can be used only for one registration and one debit/credit card can be used for a maximum of five transactions. All the colleges have been directed to update their websites and upload the details of the courses taught by them.
 
 
