BHATINDA: Facing nonstop protests by the contractual workers of now shut Guru   thermal plant (GNDTP), Bathinda, for almost three months, the   (PSPCL) has agreed to adjust them at the thermal plant, offices and sub-stations falling under its chief engineer (west zone) through the Punjab Ex-servicemen Corporation (PESCO).

 A formal agreement between PSPCL management and contractual employees is expected to be signed on Friday. PESCO, which is meant for the welfare of ex-servicemen by providing them jobs, has enlarged its scope to offer workforce from amongst other fields.
 
 GNDTO contractual workers, who have been called to sign the agreement on Friday, are however skeptical about the clause that they would not be entitled to demand for regularization of services in PSPCL under any circumstances in the future. As per the tentative agreement, the workers would be provided joining letters before April 22, and their service would be counted from the date of new joining and no benefit of previous contracts would be given to them.
 
 GNDTP authorities have confirmed about the agreement between workers and PSPCL. The thermal plant was permanently shut down on January 1 and workers were worried over losing their livelihood due to that.
 
 Coming together under the banner of the thermal plant contractual workers’ coordination committee, they had started an indefinite protest with their family members outside Bathinda district administrative complex on January 1, when the thermal plant was shut down. Concerned over the sustained protest, PSPCL held talks with the workers on January 12, 23, 27, March 20, and finally on March 27 to resolve the deadlock.
 
 Committee president   said, “We have agreed to work under outsourcing through PESCO. We have objected only to the clause wherein the workers will not be allowed to demand regularization of their services. We are trying to get this clause deleted. We will go to PSPCL head office in Patiala to sign the agreement on Friday.”
 
 GNDTP   said, “PSPCL has agreed to adjust all 635 contractual workers through PESCO out of which 184 will be adjusted at the thermal plant. Others will be placed at the corporation’s offices and sub-stations falling under west zone. We will ensure that the services of the workers are secure under PESCO.”
 
 
