CHENNAI: In a bid to check consumption of alcohol by juveniles, Madras high court has directed   government to provide details of the number of   operated in the state, frequency of raids conducted in such pubs to prevent minors from consuming liquor, number cases registered so far, number of hookah parlours in the state, particularly in Chennai, and whether minors are allowed to use hookah.

 Justice N   raised these queries on a plea seeking to ban use and sale of tobacco products in public places and in the vicinity of educational institutions in the state.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing, the judge referred to media reports on consumption of alcohol in pubs as well as smoking of hookah by juveniles in parlours that are rampant in the state. He then directed the state government to provide the details of such parlours, and added: “Inspite of directions given by this court, no information is available as to how many educational institutions have been raided to find out whether ganja or other prohibited contraband items are consumed or used by the students in the educational institutions.”
 
 Globally acclaimed elite Indian engineering school IIT Kanpur is battling a serious drug problem, Justice Kirubakaran said, adding: “An internal inquiry conducted jointly by college authorities and the district administration revealed that a few hundred students have been actively involved in consumption of various kind of drugs. The inquiry was conducted after getting specific inputs that the said drugs are easily available in the road side tea shops and pan shops near the gate of the institute and some of the class-IV employees of the institute are also involved in the supply of such drugs to the students. The administration decided to spread awareness to hold counselling session to check the menace,” Justice Kirubakaran said.
 
 When such is the position of the premier educational institutions like IIT, the position of the educational institutions in Tamil Nadu, especially in Chennai, has to be introspected. The management themselves should come forward to conduct internal enquiry to find out the use of any drugs and other contraband items in the campus, he added.
 
 Noting that ignoring this issue would play havoc in the lives of students, Justice Kirubakaran directed the DGP to issue circulars to educational institutions, especially engineering, medical, law and management schools, asking them to conduct internal probe/inquiry, jointly with the district administration to find out the availability of drugs and other contraband goods in the institutions and take remedial measures and report to the police, so that the culprits could be brought to book.
 
 
