SHIMLA: With lack of rain and snow this winter, a drought-like situation is looming large over  . Keeping this in view, the state government has started preparing for the challenges lying ahead. On Thursday, principal secretary (revenue and disaster management)   Chand Sharma directed officials to prepare and review the drought contingency plan of districts with support of stakeholders concerned. All field functionaries have been directed to prepare a contingency plan to combat the situation.

 He held a meeting with senior officers of various departments to take stock of the preparedness for ‘drought-like situation’ this year. The deputy commissioners of all districts participated through video conferencing. Onkar said that the rainfall data of all districts had been analysed and there was deficiency of 49% in the state (post monsoon). He said that as per information provided by the meteorological department, there was a chance of scattered or light to moderate rainfall on January 23 and 24 throughout the state. 
 
 He said that there had been no impact on the drinking water supply. He added that the   department was having 45 drinking water supply testing labs in the state, where regular sampling and testing was being done. Onkar also directed all DCs to ensure water quality testing randomly up to the subdivision level. All districts were also directed to take remedial measures to stop contamination of drinking water at the source and to start super chlorination process in the districts to prevent spread of water-borne diseases.
 
 According to information, there is no deficiency in the moisture level due to rainfall in the districts. However, if the same pattern continued for the next two weeks then it would impact the moisture level. He said all DCs and departments concerned had been informed in advance to prepare the contingency plan, to tackle the situation. They had also been directed to make necessary arrangements of water tankers in water-scarce areas as well as fodder for livestock.
 
 
