BENGALURU: In a bid to reduce road accidents, especially at night,   is contemplating introduction of a   to check its drivers from dozing off at the wheel. Likely to be piloted in 10 Volvo buses, it will monitor the driver’s eye movements and sound a warning alarm in case he appears sleepy.

  
 
 The state-run corporation is also testing a sensor-based anti-collision device, which would automatically bring the bus to a halt and issue an alert to the driver if any vehicle is found within a 10-20 metre distance.
 
 KSRTC officials said the drowsiness detection system will enhance drivers’ safety in case they fall asleep or get distracted. “We are in talks with an Australian-based firm to instal it in 10 buses, including those on Bengaluru to Chennai and Hyderabad routes,” said a senior KSRTC official. 
 
 “In-vehicle   will monitor the driver’s facial movements and send out a warning if his eyelids are droopy, he nods off or appears drowsy,” the official added.
 
 There have been several instances of drivers tending to ignore drowsiness and causing accidents, especially on long-distance trips at night. “The warning will be issued if the driver is no longer in a condition to drive. This will ensure passengers’ safety as well,” said another official. The camera will capture facial expressions and process the signals using artificial intelligence. The system will also help KSRTC analyze its drivers’ skills.
 
 Sources said implementation will be tough as no other state-run bus corporations have tested the system. Also, it will require KSRTC to upload driver profiles on the system.
 
 A recent study by KSRTC and World Research Institute, an NGO, found that several road accidents were caused by  . Experts blamed it on poor sleep, drugs and fatigue caused by long-working hours.
 
 KSRTC managing director S R Umashankar said: “We are exploring various technologies to reduce the number of accidents. We will implement a suitable model after conducting a pilot project.” He said they have formed a team to come up with innovative solutions. “It’s too early to say which one will be implemented,” he said.
 
