MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday lambasted the state government for abdicating its duties and expecting the court to monitor almost every aspect of governance, including   and  . 

  "Everything, right from the delivery of the baby to naming the baby... they expect us to nurture till the child attains youth. They are very happily shifting the burden on us. Stop this nonsense,'' said a bench of Justices   and Bharati Dangre. 
 
  The HC heard a PIL pending since 2011 on shortage of police to escort undertrials to court. The judges noted that the PIL's scope was expanded to include issues overcrowding of prisons, delivery of summons, delay of investigations due to forensic reports and delay of trial. They referred to a letter by the prosecutor to the director-general (prisons) on procurement of video-conference facilities and citing HC's direction. 
 
 " Is it our duty to ensure video-conference machines are installed? Is this your understanding that until this court directs the duty will not be performed? Is prison reform the duty of the HC and HC administration?'' asked Justice Dharmadhikari. The bench also noted that one of the complaints from jail administration was of irregular electricity supply. 
 
  "Are we supposed to monitor this also?'' asked Dharmadhikari. 
 
  The judges said the impression the court gets is that every single issue, including administration of justice, is placed at the court's doorstep and the government is getting out of its primary duty. "We are so rry this was never intended when the PIL was entertained,'' said Justice Dharmadhikari, adding that at this rate the "PIL will never be disposed of till everyone is satisfied". Senior advocate Nitin Pradhan, assisting the court as amicus curiae, offered to "crystallise the issues". 
 
 The bench said if the government expects HC assistance or involvement of district court administrations, it can be always given that. "But the courts are not expected to take over all its functions,'' it added. The next hearing is on February 20. 
 
 
