CHENNAI: With the conclusion of hearing on the DMK’s PIL for a   probe into gutka scam, all the politically important batches of cases are now poised for judgment in the Madras high court.

 The other cases pertain to disqualification of 18   MLAs loyal to RK Nagar MLA T T V Dhinakaran and DMK’s plea to disqualify deputy chief minister   and 10 other MLAs loyal to him. All the three batches of cases have the potential to hugely impact the state politics, as the government has been surviving on a slender majority in the assembly.
 
 The gutka scam petition, in particular, had turned heads when the Centre joined hands with the   in seeking a probe by the CBI into the scam in which involvement of state health minister C Vijayabaskar and DGP T K Rajendran was suspected. On January 12, the income tax department filed an affidavit in the high court claiming that a confidential note written by it in the multi-crore scam was recovered from AIADMK leader V K Sasikala’s room in former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s house at Poes Garden, during a search conducted in November last.
 
 This apart, in a recent hearing, the first bench headed by Chief Justice Indira Banerjee observed that the way the Tamil Nadu government is opposing a “simple PIL seeking a CBI probe into the scam prompts us to go deeper into the issue”.
 
 Since September 2016, the 18 disqualified AIADMK MLAs are awaiting a favourable court ruling to return to their seats in the assembly. The court had refused to stay their disqualification though, as a consolation, it restrained the Election Commission of India from notifying the vacancies and holding byelection to those ‘vacancies’. Their victory in the court case would spell trouble for the Edappadi K Palaniswami-led government in the state.
 
 The third case relating to DMK’s demand to disqualify 11 MLAs, including Panneerselvam, is significant, too, as they had defied party whip and their defiance remained unpurged, as required by law. The fact that the speaker chose to disqualify the 18 MLAs merely because they submitted a memorandum to the state governor seeking change of Palaniswami as chief minister, while ignoring the defiance of whip by Panneerselvam and others, had been highlighted in court arguments.
 
 Whichever way the judicial pendulum swings, the impact on political scenario in the state would be hard to ignore.
 
 
