JODHPUR: New AICC general secretary (organisation & training) Ashok   said here on Saturday that the new responsibility given to him by   president Rahul Gandhi was on account of trust and his loyalty towards the party. 

 Gehlot said this while talking to the media here in Jodhpur on Saturday in the first press meet in his new capacity.
 
 “This is a huge responsibility and I would do my best to meet the party’s expectations. I have always treated myself a simple worker of the party regardless of the responsibilities and have always tried to put in my best in every responsibility,” Gehlot said.
 
 Gehlot had arrived in Jodhpur on Friday to offer condolences on demise of his good friend and adviser Jawahar Surana and mother of Justice Prakash Tatia, chairperson of the   State Human Rights Commission.
 
 He said that in spite of this new responsibility, he will not be away from Rajasthan and Jodhpur, his hometown would continue to be his laboratory.
 
 “What I am today is because of the people of Rajasthan and I would not be away from them,” said Gehlot adding that Rajasthan is in his blood.
 
 Referring to the new responsibility in the AICC, said that he would now work to further consolidate the position of the party keeping in view the general election next year.
 
 “We together would work for strengthening the party, expand its base and bring it back to the power in Centre by infusing a new life in the party and its cadres across the country,” he said.
 
 He further said that more youth would be associated with the Congress by apprising them of the party ideology and the contribution as well as sacrifices of the great leaders of yesteryears, who built the party brick by brick.
 
 “We need to think about the atmosphere of fear, hatred, intolerance and violence that has been prevailing in the country these days. Congress would work for restoration of affection, love and humanity across the communities and bring peaceful atmosphere in the country,” Gehlot said. Before this, he held a meeting with the party leaders and workers, who all had assembled to felicitate him on his new responsibility.
 
 
