NEW DELHI: After spearheading filing of a notice for removal motion against CJI   in Rajya Sabha and getting two of its MPs to challenging its rejection before the Supreme Court,   has decided to drop the ante. 

 
 In a meeting of top leaders on Tuesday attended among others by Ahmed Patel and  , it was decided to let go of the matter.
 
 Sibal had surprised many by abruptly withdrawing the petition by two Congress Rajya Sabha MPs after strenuously demanding a copy of the CJI's administrative order, by which the matter was assigned to a five-judge bench headed by Justice A K Sikri. The former Union minister, however, had said the party would keep at it, declaring that he would enlist formal backing for a fresh stab at the matter.
 
 Within hours of withdrawing the petition, Sibal's co-counsel   had filed an application in the SC registry under the Right to Information Act seeking a copy of the CJI's order posting the matter before the five-judge bench, a clear indication of the intent to file a petition to challenge the administrative order.
 
 However, in a change of tack, Congress leaders, in consultation with Sibal, decided that filing a petition challenging the Rajya Sabha chairman's decision to reject the notice for removal motion was the farthest the party could have travelled to highlight the urgent need to protect the "dignity and independence of the judiciary" - the catch-line used repeatedly by Sibal during his arguments on Tuesday before the five-judge bench. They decided that no fresh petition by Congress MPs would be filed in the SC.
 
 Left party MPs, who had signed the notice for removal motion, are still contemplating filing a fresh petition challenging the Rajya Sabha chairman's decision. 
 
 However, TMC MP and senior advocate Kalyan Bandopadhyay told TOI on Thursday that his party was against the removal motion because the five charges articulated in the notice lacked proof. 
 
 "It is a rarest of the rare weapon to be used against any judge of constitutional courts and should not be filed without substantive proof," he said.
 
 On Tuesday, Sibal had argued that the petitioners - Partap Singh Bajwa and Amee Harshadray Yajnik - were not challenging the apex court's consistent stand that the CJI was the master of roster and held exclusive authority to allocate cases to different benches. 
 
 "The issue that confronts us today and the court is whether the CJI's power to allocate a case to whichever bench he likes is subject to any discipline or guidelines? How should this power be exercised by the CJI? Is the master of roster's power untrammelled?" he had asked.
 
 Sibal had further argued, "When we say there is some deficiency in the exercise of the power to allocate cases, and ask for a review, the court cannot end the dialogue by saying the CJI is the master of roster. This dialogue is to keep the dignity and independence of judiciary intact."
 
 His main grievance was why the case was suddenly assigned to a five-judge bench when a bench of Justices J Chelameswar and Sanjay Kishan Kaul had said that it would give its decision on Tuesday. 
 
 However, when the bench of Justices Sikri, S A Bobde, N V Ramana, Arun Mishra and Adarsh Goel expressed reservation about handing over the CJI's administrative order allocating the case to the larger bench, Sibal withdrew the petition.
 
 Meeting the maintainability plea of attorney general  , who had questioned why only two of the 64 MPs who signed the notice had approached the SC, Sibal had hinted that he would ask 50 MPs to sign a fresh petition to question the legality of the RS chairman's decision.
 
 
