CHENNAI:   chief minister   on Wednesday urged Prime Minister   to direct the Union environment ministry to carry out necessary amendments to environment rules and exempt the fireworks industry from various provisions of . the rules to save the livelihood of eight lakh families dependent on it in the state.

 Around 850 fireworks units, mostly located in and around Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district, manufacture 90% of the country’s firecrackers, but the industry faces a bleak future due to the public interest litigations filed before the SC seeking a ban on manufacturing, sale and use of fireworks in any form.
 
 
 The manufacturers suffered severe financial losses and there has also been loss of employment since a ban on sale of fireworks was imposed in the   before   last year.
 
 The ban was subsequently lifted, but a few more PILs have been filed before the SC.
 
 
 
 
 Chennai: “This has created fear and uncertainty in the minds of the firework manufacturers leading to disruption of production as they are unsure about the outcome of the pending PILs,” the chief minister said in the letter, a copy of which was released here. The fireworks industry in Virudhunagar has been continuing various forms of protests for the 23rd day.
 
 Palaniswami sought to remind   of the display of fireworks during the national and cultural events in the US after the   of that country pronounced that as per the second amendment of the Constitution of the US, use of fireworks during celebrations of cultural events was a right of all Americans, as it symbolised display of civic pride and patriotism.
 
 “As per rule 3(b) of Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, only when the level of any of the pollutants mentioned in the table in Schedule VII goes beyond the prescribed limit in the said table for two consecutive days shall the alarm bells ring and continuous monitoring and further investigation instituted. In the case of fireworks, almost all reported scientific data has revealed reversing of the level of pollution to the level prior to the use of fireworks within 24 hours,” the chief minister said.
 
 The fireworks manufactured in the state used nitrate salts, which was much less polluting than chloride salts used extensively in fireworks manufactured in other parts of the world, he said, adding that no firework manufacturers in TN used chemicals prohibited under the pollution control rules or those framed by the Supreme Court.
 
 “The manufacturers are using safe and environment-friendly products and there are no recorded longterm effects on the environment. Since the use of fireworks is attached to our socio-cultural traditions, any ban on production, sale and use of the same will adversely affect the sentiments of the people of India,” Palaniswami said.
 
