DEHRADUN: A day after a 19-year-old   was raped allegedly by a gang of 4 local youths, the residents of the staid hill town of Uttarkashi, almost 185 km from state capital Dehradun, were in a state of shock.

 Locals said that they could not even recall when such a heinous crime had been reported in their town which is regarded as a gateway to revered Himalayan shrines like Gangotri. The town which has a population of around 16,000 is a close-knit one with most people knowing each other and crimes like gang-rape unheard of.
 
 Sharad Rawat, a long-time resident, told TOI, "This incident has made a dent in the image of our town which has always been known for its natural beauty and serene environment."
 
 Not many people were also willing to speak about the issue or discuss it, preferring to term it as 'a black spot' on the area's reputation. 
 
 A few like social activist Pushpa Chauhan however said that the incident should propel authorities to provide a more secure environment to women. "Strict punishment should be given to the culprits so that no one else dares to commit such a crime in future," she said. 
 
 The teenager was waylaid by the group of men while she was out for a walk with her male friend near Kedarghat on the banks of the   late on Friday night. While three of the accused —  ,   and Ajay Bhatt (all cousins) — have been arrested, the fourth accused, identified as Manish Awasthi, is still on the run, police said. 
 
 While Vijay has done hotel management, Manish is a porter. The other two are working in a private company in Chandigarh.
 
 According to Dadanpal, superintendent of police, Uttarkashi, the four accused were in an inebriated state when they committed the crime. "They first beat the girl’s male friend and told him to run away from the spot and then dragged the frightened girl for some distance to a secluded place and then raped her."
 
 After committing the crime, one of the accused took the girl to his room, from where the survivor managed to escape on Saturday morning. A police source said the girl agreed to go with one of the accused to his house as she was too frightened. After reaching a friend’s house, she narrated her ordeal to her and later to her family members, who then reported the matter to police.
 
 "The family members filed a complaint of gang-rape at the Kotwali police station. We have arrested three accused on the basis of information provided by the girl and her friend,” the SP said.
 
 The four accused have been booked under sections 342 (wrongful confinement), 506 (criminal intimidation), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (criminal act done by several persons) and 376-G (gang-rape).
 
