BAREILLY / PILIBHIT: On Sunday, scores of women gathered at the Mahatma Gandhi statue near   in Bareilly carrying placards and protested against the Kathua and Unnao cases demanding capital punishment for all the accused.
 
  Shobha Pal, media coordinator of Nari Vishwas Bharti (NVB), a social service organization, said that courts should give death sentence to the rapists without delay. “And if the legal system in our country finds itself helpless to punish such devils, hand over them to us. We will execute them to save our daughters,” she said. In Pilibhit, hundreds of women took out a candlelight march on Saturday evening and staged protests on Sunday.
  
  The agitating women said that the way legislator Kuldeep Sengar and his brothers were extended political patronage was highly condemnable. “The rape survivor’s father was killed in a police station. When even police stations are not safe for rape survivors and victims’ families, the condition of the state can be assessed easily. This government runs anti-Romeo drives but gives shelter to rapists,” Pal said.
  
  Women gathered under the aegis of NVB warned that if the government didn’t take stern action against the rape accused, their agitation would be intensified.
  
  Meanwhile, in Pilibhit, women’s organizations staged demonstrations at all major city roads, stopped traffic and condemned the two cases. Women volunteers demanded from the President of India death penalty for the guilty in both cases. Police and district administration could tackle the situation only with great difficulty.
  
  The heads of six other women organizations convened a meeting at the office of Jamaat-e-Islami Hind at Pilibhit city to decide their forthcoming course of action.
  
  Around 200 volunteers of NVB assembled at   at around 10 am on Sunday and they blocked traffic. Raising slogans against the accused   from Unnao and the accused in the Kathua rape case, the women reiterated their demand for death sentence to the accused.
  
  Condemning the apathetic attitude of state government and UP chief minister over taking immediate punitive action against the BJP MLA, his brother and his other accomplices, the president of the organization, Lali Yadav termed the role of law keepers biased and unfortunate.
  
  The women handed over a memorandum of their demands to city magistrate in Pilibhit, Poonam Nigam that was addressed to the President of India. The demonstration could be lifted when the circle officer (city),   assured them of the fullest security for women and girls in Pilibhit and immediate police action in case of any incident of atrocity on them.
  
  In Sherpur town of Puranpur tehsil, hundreds of volunteers belonging to International Tehreek-e-Tahaffuz-e-Sunniyat took out a candlelight march to pay tribute to the 8-year-old girl killed in Kathua. The silent demonstrators also appealed to the President of India for immediate death penalty to all the guilty in Unnao and Kathua rape cases.
