INDORE: The Indore bench of   on Monday registered a case of contempt of court against the chief secretary and principal secretary of the women and child development and the health and family welfare department for failing to abide by its order to issue fresh tenders for supply in take-home ration scheme.

 “In spite of categorical directions, it appears that the state government wanted to favour private persons who were in joint venture, supplying take-home ration to the government. And for reasons best known to the government, on some pretext or the other, the court order of September 13, 2018, was not complied with,” a bench comprising justice S C Sharma and justice Virendra Singh observed.
 
 The bench made these observations while hearing a review petition on the earlier order in which the government sought 30 days’ extension to implement the court’s directions.
 
 On September 13, 2017, HC had directed the respondents to issue fresh tenders within 30 days, inviting bidders for supplying ration under the scheme through MP  .
 
 The tender contract of those supplying rations had ended in March 2017, but they were allowed to continue even after the September 2017 order, thus prompting HC to summon the principal secretaries of departments of women and child development and health and family welfare and the then chief secretary.
 
 On March 9, the principal secretary prayed for permission to allow the same persons to supply ration till a short-term tender is issued. The bench rejected the plea, and observed that it “can’t be party to an act that is illegal” and can’t pass an order contrary to its own previous order.
 
 “The reply filed by the chief secretary and principal secretary is nothing but an eyewash,” the bench observed, adding that once the order was passed to stop the supply, the government shouldn’t have resumed it.
 
 “The court has carefully gone through the reply filed by the chief secretary as well as the principal secretary and is of the opinion that prima facie, they have committed contempt of the order dated September 13, 2017, passed by this court,” it said.
 
 That the private players were continuing to supply ration despite the court order was confirmed by officer-in-charge N P Dehria before the court on February 2. The court was told by the petitioner’s counsel that the tender is worth Rs 1,200 crore.
 
