Chandigarh: Panjab University (PU) syndicate on Wednesday recommended four new names to probe the sexual harassment plaint against the vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover. The syndicate has recommended the senior most female professor of the university and chairperson of the Panjab University Committee against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH) Maninder Kaur as the two internal members and either of the additional chief secretary of Haryana, cooperation department and ACS, vigilance department Jyoti Arora or principal secretary to govt of Haryana, higher education and technical education Navraj Sandhu, to chair the committee. These names will be sent to the chancellor M Venakaish Naidu for final approval. The rest of the names proposed would remain the same except Justice Jasbir Singh (retd) who has expressed his unavailability.

 A special syndicate meeting was convened on Wednesday after the former chief secretary of Haryana Meenakshi Anand Chaudhary refused to chair the committee, since she was not currently employed anywhere, which goes against the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. 
 
 Keshav Malhotra and Ashok Goyal expressed dissent on the decision stating that the syndicate’s decision was not in consonance with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013. While Malhotra and Goyal argued that the entire committee should be constituted by the chancellor himself, the other syndicate members put forward the argument that the House was working on the directions of the chancellor only, who has asked the university to form a committee to probe the matter. Sources said those who filed dissent argued that including two women teachers in the committee is not in the Act and by asking the university to form a committee to probe the matter, the chancellor and MHRD were going against the Act. 
 
 V-C did not chair the meeting
 
 Since, the sexual harassment complaint is against the Panjab University (PU) vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover, he did not chair the meeting. Instead, it was syndicate member Satish Sharma who chaired the meeting on Wednesday. 
 
 BJP members remained absent 
 
 Only 11 members made it to the first meeting of the new syndicate. Sanjay Tandon and Subhash Sharma of BJP were not present in the first meeting of the syndicate.
 
 
