PATNA: The new Darbhanga   City Antyodaya Weekly Express (22551/22552) will commence its regular run from   on Saturday and return from Jalandhar on Sunday on a weekly basis.

 According to East Central Railway’s (ECR) chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, the train will leave Darbhanga at 3.25am every Saturday and reach Jalandhar city in Punjab at 5.10am the next day. On its return trip, the train will leave Jalandhar city at 10am every Sunday and reach Darbhanga at 11.30am the following day. The train with water purifier machines has stoppages at Sitamarhi, Raxaul, Sugauli, Bettiah, Narkatiaganj, Gorakhpur, Sitapur Cantt, Bareilly,  , Saharanpur, Ambala and Ludhiana.
 
 Minister of state for railways Manoj Sinha had flagged off the inaugural run of the train on Tuesday through remote control from New Delhi.
 
 Trains detained: An agitated mob detained several pairs of passenger trains near the Abhaipur station under the Danapur division of the ECR from 5.15am to 12.30pm on Thursday.
 
 According to sources, the mob began protesting after a man was run over by a train near the station. The mob left following intervention of RPF personnel.
 
 Engine derailed: Following derailment of a locomotive of the   passenger train (53225) near the Gaya Junction, the movement of trains was badly affected for few hours on the Koderma-Gaya route under the Mughalsarai division of the ECR on Thursday morning.
 
 Trains cancelled: The railways has cancelled two pairs of passenger trains running on the Varanasi-Mughalsarai (54267/54268) and Faizabad-Mughalsarai (54109/54110) routes till May 22. Officials have cited track maintenance work in the Moradabad division of the North Central   (NCR) as the reason for cancellation of trains.
 
 The Patna-Varanasi passenger train (63223/63226) will short terminate at the Mughalsarai Junction during this period. Similarly, the Jaunpur-Mughalsarai passenger (54261) will short terminate at Varanasi till May 22.
 
 Besides, the movement of few trains like the Barwadih-Chunar passenger will remain affected for about six hours on Sunday between Lusa and Khairahi stations in the NCR due to segmental box construction work at the railway level crossing gate on the route.
 
 
