MUMBAI: To promote use of e-vehicles, the state government on Thursday signed memorandums of understanding (MoU) with  , Mahindra & Mahindra, and Energy Efficiency Services Limited (EESL). Chief minister   said that in the coming days, use of e-vehicles will be increased for government and public transport. 

 The MoUs were signed for use of e-vehicles in public and private transport and setting up charging centres at government buildings.
 
 The state transport department inked a pact with Tata Motors to supply 1,000 e-vehicles for the government. As per this MoU, Tata Motors will set up 100 charging centres in the state with the cooperation of Tata Power. The public works and general administration departments signed an MoU with EESL to provide charging facility for e-vehicles, including cars of these departments.
 
 Another agreement regarding fund supply was signed between the   (UNEP) and EESL. According to this, UNEP will provide funds to EESL to enable it to implement the policy of using e-vehicles in the state.
 
 A senior official said that the state can take the lead in the use of e-vehicles as the state government has chalked out a comprehensive policy, which "not only gives concession to manufacturers, but also extends sops to buyers."
 
 Union minister   said that the Union government has taken the initiative to put e-vehicles to use and to create facilities for them in the country by 2030.
 
 EESL will supply 1,000 vehicles to   in the first phase. In this phase of the program, EESL had floated a global tender for 10,000 electric vehicles which was split into two parts. Tata Motors and Mahindra & Mahindra were successful bidders in the first tender of the EESL for 10,000 cars. 
 
 Asked about the decision to extend bidding time line for its second phase of 10,000 cars, he said, "We are waiting the department of heavy industry to finalise its new policy on charging stations before going ahead with a new tender for buying electric cars".
 
  (with agency inputs) 
 
 
