CENTURION: Sleep had to be short for the   on Saturday morning. The idea was to wake up as early as possible and catch the ‘juniors’ in action. In faraway New Zealand – 11 hours ahead of South Africa time – an Indian team was playing a World Cup final. Every run was cheered as India chased Australia’s total to clinch a record fourth title.

 
 
 
 
 
 “It’s a proud moment for all of us. They all played really well, they have been really lucky to have Rahul [Dravid] bhai as coach and mentor and all the support staff as well. They have been working really hard for the last one and a half years. Congratulations to them,” said Ajinkya Rahane, India’s No. 4, as the team here in Centurion got ready for another practice session – an optional one this time – on the eve of the second One-dayer against South Africa.
 
 
 
 
 
 Here in Centurion, the excitement ahead of a 50-over game for which a belter of a track has been kept ready, excitement dipped a little since Friday after it came to light that South Africa skipper   had been ruled out of the series. Faf suffered a freak injury to his right index finger, the same as AB de Villiers, and South Africa have announced   – with only two one-day internationals under his belt – as the stand-in skipper.
 
 Faf had saved his team the blushes in the first game with a determined century that alone helped the hosts register a total of any consequence at the Kingsmead, Durban. However, such has been India’s stride in this format lately that chasing a total of 269 runs on a slow wicket remained only formality on Thursday evening.
 
 With Faf and AB both missing, the contest has further tilted towards the Indians.
 
 Markram is low on ODI experience, but on par with   where one particular 50-over triumph is concerned. The 23-yearold local lad had led South Africa to an Under-19 World Cup triumph in UAE back in 2014.
 
 “What happened to Faf in Durban is a freak incident and could happen to anyone. Last night I got the gist of it [captaincy]. I officially heard it first thing this morning. I really enjoy captaining, but it’s an unexpected thing. This has all just happened so quickly,” Markram said.
 
 With   in the team’s ranks, and Faf expected to be at the ground for the game, Markram will have to use all the support he can to counter the Indians here.
 
 One look at the wicket on Saturday and the Indians began playing as many lofted strokes in the nets they could, riding on a good idea of what could be in store here. Centurion is a small ground and the wicket will offer absolutely little to bowlers – both pace and spin.
 
 Rahane, whose half-century and a 189-run third wicket stand with skipper Kohli set up India’s chase in Durban, was confident. “The way we played in Durban, especially our bowlers and in particular the wrist-spinners, was great. They did really well for us,” the batsman said.
 
 
