GANDHINAGAR: Pravin  , the former international working president of the   ( ), ended his “indefinite fast” on Thursday, in less than 48 hours, without any assurance from Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government that a law would be enacted to clear the way for the Ram temple to be build in Ayodhya.

 Togadia had started his indefinite fast on Tuesday afternoon to press his demands such as the construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, deportation of illegal Bangladeshis, resettlement of Hindus in Kashmir, and abolition of Article 370 of the Constitution.
 
 He made an aggressive speech targeting PM Modi, alleging that there was a “conspiracy behind his defeat” in the recently held VHP elections. Togadia quit the VHP after his nominee Raghav Reddy was defeated by former Himachal Pradesh governor V S Kokje in an election for the post of VHP president.
 
 Togadia, 62, said he decided to end his fast “on the advice of doctors and Hindu saints”. He said he will now embark on a nationwide tour to revive Hindutva politics. Sources said that attendance by VHP workers was thin and this was why Togadia called the fast off.
 
 The surgeon-turned-firebrand Hindu leader accepted fruit juice from religious leaders to end the fast. Led by Akhileshwar Das Maharaj, the religious leaders had urged him to end his fast.
 
 Speaking to the media, Togadia took a swipe at the BJP and PM Modi, saying they had proved “as bad as their predecessors” and failed to fulfil their promises. “People are now asking who they should vote for, as those who gained power in 2014 proved to be as bad as those who were ousted. So I will try to establish Hindutva politics in 2019 to realise people’s aspirations,” Togadia said.“I am sure that Hindus, along with workers of the RSS, the BJP and the VHP, are still with me in my endeavour,” he said.
 
 “Narendra bhai, you need to answer why promises were not fulfilled. If you don’t answer, then 100 crore Hindus along with farmers and youths will seek an answer from you in 2019. Instead of roaming around the world, try solving the problems of the people of this county,” he said.
 
 
