MUMBAI: “The state and police allowed people to get away with murder in Bhima   but will stop us when we want to protest against it. Why does the law become sluggish when it involves atrocities against Dalits?” questioned Powai resident Jitu Lahane, a server engineer, who participated in the bandh on Wednesday.

 The Bsc (IT) graduate said that majority of the youngsters from his locality   in Powai didn’t have any political affiliations but joined in after hearing accounts of how the gathering was allegedly ambushed in Koregaon. “Over 300 people who had gone to commemorate the 200thanniversary of the battle were attacked. Many of them returned to Mumbai with head injuries and bruises. It was a miracle that none suffered fatal injuries. The police and the state administration turned a blind eye,” he said.
 
 Chetan Pujari, a DJ at small events, said that while Dalits in Mumbai perhaps don’t face much discrimination in everyday life, it’s still a harsh reality in rural areas. “All we want is justice. What is taking the police so long to arrest those who attacked a peaceful gathering at Koregaon. Their faces are visible in videos doing the rounds of social media,” he said. He added that the life of a young person was lost for someone’s political gain. “Who wants to resort to a bandh. It’s everybody’s loss, but the state left us with no choice,” he said. Raju Sonawane, who works as medical representative, said, “The contributions of the Dalit community in building the nation is being questioned today. Why?”
 
 Another protestor, who didn’t want to give his name, said that some right-wing organisations which are protected by the   government have been re-activated with a mandate to create communal divide in the state. “Maratha morchas in the state got so much attention after the rape and murder of a Maratha girl. The incident was gruesome and should been condemned and people responsible for the crime should be given the harshest of punishments. But, what about several such cases against the women of our community? No one is outraging over that? Why are these cases not fast tracked,” said the young protestor in his early thirties.
 
