KOLKATA: India pacer Mohammed Shami’s wife has accused him of   and physically assaulting her over several months, prompting her to go to the Lalbazar police headquarters on Wednesday evening.

 
 
 
  met senior cops in her lawyer’s presence during her three-and-a-half-hour visit, which came a day after she posted a series of screenshots of text messages on Facebook, claiming that they were conversations between Shami and other women. Jahan, 26, a former model and   cheerleader, met Shami in 2011. They got married a year later and have a four-year-old daughter.
 
 
 
 “She came to Lalbazar and met us. She has told us in detail about the trouble between her and her husband but did not lodge any official complaint,” joint commissioner (crime) Praveen Tripathi said.
 
 Jahan started posting a series of photographs of Shami with different women since Monday morning and alleged that they were his girlfriends. She later posted seven screenshots of a text conversation between a woman and allegedly Shami that dated back to October 2016 and named the album as “Shami’s enjoyment”.
 
 Shami responded to the developments by posting a Tweet at 11.13am on Tuesday. It read: “Ye jitna bhi news hamare personal life ke baare mein chal raha hain, ye sab sarasar jhut hai, ye koi bahut bada humare khilaf sajish hai aur ye mujhe badnam karne aur mera game kharab karne ki kosish ki ja rahi hai (The news about my personal life, which has been doing the rounds, is totally false. This is a big conspiracy to defame me and an attempt to spoil my performance).” TOI repeatedly tried to reach Shami over phone for his comments but there was no response from his cellphone throughout the day.
 
  
  
 Speaking to TOI outside her apartment at Katjunagar in Jadavpur, Jahan said she had recently found a smartphone hidden in Shami’s car. She managed to open the pattern lock after several attempts and found some “objectionable” chats, photographs and videos, she said. “This has been going on for several months. I found this out on his way back from South Africa last month. He stayed at a hotel in Dubai while the rest of his teammates returned to India. A chat revealed that he was scheduled to meet a girl from Pakistan at the airport. He checked into a hotel on February 18 with the woman. He came back to India the next day,” Jahan said.
 
 She waved a bundle of printouts of chats and photographs that she claimed to have recovered from Shami’s phone and stated that she intended to take legal action against him. She even alleged that Shami tortured her physically and mentally and had threatened to leave her and marry someone else.
 
 “But I will not let him get away easily. I will not sign on the divorce papers and will expose him and drag him to the court for what he has done to me,” Jahan said. 
 
 Jahan alleged that Shami had relations with many women in cities like Nagpur, Indore, Bangalore and Pune. “He regularly calls these women to his hotel rooms whenever he is visiting these cities. He also has relations with women in Pakistan and Dubai. I confronted him but he threatened me and dared me to do whatever I wanted,” Jahan alleged.
 
