KOLKATA: The country’s oldest  , in  , is going all out to get more girl students on board. It plans to set up a hotline, a dedicated page on a social networking site and appoint a team of female students and faculty members to reach out and interact with women candidates who qualify in this year’s IIT-JEE (Advanced).

 “The idea is to encourage the most promising girl students to join the campus once they crack the IIT-JEE (Advanced). Through campus tours, we can motivate them to study in an IIT. At IIT-Kgp we plan to take necessary steps so that more and more girls with merit can be persuaded to join us,” said a source.
 
 
  
 
 Last year, too, IIT-Kgp had set up a special page on a social networking site asking girl candidates to contact them in case they had queries. The idea was to try and motivate them to join the IITs. This year, however, the effort will be more organized.
 
 
  
 
 “There were no supernumerary seats last year. This year, the HRD ministry has given an instruction to include 14% girls in the first year. This will be a huge challenge as a large number of girl students prefer to pursue higher studies locally despite cracking the IIT-JEE (Advanced), making it difficult to achieve a desirable male: female ratio on campus,” a source said.
 
 The IITs plan to counsel girl aspirants on the opportunities that the IITs can offer. “They should be made aware of the development of personality and skill that happens at the IITs,” the source added.
 
 “Girl candidates will be encouraged to ask questions and talk about their concerns on the social network page. They can connect with us and chat. Last year, three faculty members and 60 students took part in the process and gave advice,” said  , head of department, computer science and engineering at IIT-Kgp.
 
 Partha Pratim Chakrabarty, director of  , added: “We plan to take necessary steps so that more and more girls with merit can be persuaded to join us.”
 
 The candidates and their parents will be encouraged to connect with the institute, seek information about various branches and locations. 
 
 “Some cities are considered unsafe, remote and difficult to travel. Some parents believe that certain branches of engineering like mechanical, electrical, metallurgy are not suitable for the girls. While some of these concerns are genuine, some are not. As a society, several engineering streams have been stereotyped. We will facilitate admissions so that girls have the real picture and we will also brief them on the possibilities and placements,” said another IIT-Kgp department head.
 
 Girls are not motivated enough to take up IIT coaching classes, the IIT-Kgp authorities believe. 
 
 “The women candidates lack role model in the IITs. If the girl students studying in the institute themselves interact with the aspiring engineers, then they will be motivated,” said  , chairman of JEE in IIT-Kgp. 
 
 He added: “Most IITs have proposed to set up a hotline which the girl candidates can contact after counselling.”
 
 
