TV actor   is a disillusioned man. Last seen playing the antagonist in 'Waaris', the artiste has been around for almost a decade now, having been a part of shows like 'Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon', 'Punar Vivah' and 'Do Dil Ek Jaan'.
However,   is not happy with the way the industry works and he feels when it comes to actors other than the leads, the scene is highly unprofessional.
 Talking about his experience on Waaris, he says, “I had a powerful role in the show. But after the leap, the title of show lost its value because it became a love story between the actors of the younger generation. My character was relegated to being a stepping stone for every new character to come into focus and establish himself or herself. From a negative character I had turned into a comedian. I wonder why people don’t give importance to the script and at times just change the basic concept of the show. I have experience writing screenplays and many times, I had to change my lines because of the shoddy work that goes on, in the name of scripts here. I kept fighting with the writers for one and a half years to keep my character interesting. Waaris was a show about a woman and her struggles but it was turned into a love story.”
 At times, Akshay felt like walking out, but since he was bound by contract, he had to stay on. He says, “TV shows in India are all about the lead actors. I had an important role in the show Iss Pyaar Ko Kya Naam Doon but people won’t remember anyone from the show except the lead actors. The focus should be on the lead actors, but does that mean there is nothing for the other actors? A show is about several characters, each contributing to the story. But since the show’s ratings come from trends like   and Sanaya Irani’s chemistry, every episode turns out to be just about them. This way, other actors are reduced to being puppets on the show. All that we are expected to do, is react to a situation between the two leading actors.”
 He does however have a few good words for the TV industry. He says, “It is not that we don’t have good makers here. People criticise the makkhi in  , but I feel there are more important things to be dealt with than just criticise a fly on a show.”
 The bevy of disappointments has now coaxed him to turn to theatre. “TV is my bread and butter and I will always work here. The content is changing, but slowly. In theatre
 we can experiment and try newer concepts. I am also in talks to stage a two-character play soon,” he says, signing off.
 
