NEW DELHI: Seventeen-year-old   left home for her   at work on Saturday afternoon. A few hours later, her panic-stricken mother was waiting outside F-83 in   Industrial Area, hoping that her daughter would come out. 

 Relatives of the workers from the nearby slums started gathering around the building as the news of a fire in a factory in the industrial area reached them in the afternoon. 
 
 Firefighters recounted the horrific scenes as they brought out bodies one after another. “Smoke and balls of fire were coming out of every possible corner as we entered the building,” said a fireman. “Initially, we were told that the building was vacant. But a boy, who saved his life after jumping from the first floor, told us that more are trapped inside,” he added. The building had just one entry/exit point.
 
 The firemen first recovered three bodies from the basement and one from the ground floor. As they climbed up, two bodies were found on the staircase. As the firemen entered the first floor, the smell of potassium was overpowered by that of burnt flesh — 11 workers were found dead here. 
 
 “The body of a woman was found holding the hands of two girls as if she was trying to protect them,” a fireman said after the rescue operation. A charred man was found lying close to the window, most probably dying while trying to break iron grills. 
 
 A preliminary probe indicated that the fire started from an explosion in the basement. Workers said the unit was open despite it being an off day. 
 
 A pile of explosives suddenly caught fire and quickly spread, they added. The workers didn’t have more than two minutes to come down and open the shutter that led to the iron gate, said officials. No fire safety equipment was found in the building. 
 
 Till late in the night, family members of several workers were still seen asking about where the injured have been taken. And Rita’s mother was still waiting outside the building for more information, oblivious of the fact that she would never see her daughter alive again.
 
 
