JAIPUR: The process for leasing out or sale of   hotels has been put on the back burner and a new strategy is in place to turn around their fiscal health without making fresh investments and reinforcement of staff already withdrawn through reverse deputation. 

 Cumulative losses of   (RTDC) have reached Rs 100 crore in 2017-18, and the immediate objective is to make the properties profitable in a few months from now.
 
 The new managing director of the corporation Haulianlal Guite did not share details of the revival plan but said there are a number of measures being worked upon to reduce the losses and make them operationally profitable.
 
 “The immediate aim is to make the operations of the hotels profitable and we are working on a few measures that will yield results in a few months from now,” Guite told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 He said the corporation is also looking at an occupancy of 90% for Palace-on-Wheels in the current year which will contribute to the turnaround plan of the corporation. Luxury trains and hotels are the two main business verticals of RTDC. 
 
 In a sub-cabinet committee meeting last month, it was decided not to go ahead with the revival and restructure plan of PDCOR which involved selling and leasing out of the hotels to private players.
 
 But sources in the corporation said that RTDC is likely to bring in private players to manage the restaurants and bars in the 27 properties currently operational across the state. Such a strategy can make some hotels profitable but not all of them, they opined.
 
 When asked about the latest strategy, the RTDC employees association president   said that he is not aware of the plans to give the bars and restaurants to private players on lease.
 
 “But we will oppose and resist any move by the government to undertake reverse deputation of RTDC staff or roping in private players in the garb of PPP model,” said Rathore.
 
 The selling and leasing out process had hit a roadblock as the corporation wanted more than 15% of the mandated proceeds. As per Rajasthan Tourism Disposal of Land and Properties by DoT, RTDC Rules 1997, RTDC will get only 15% of proceeds from the sale of assets. Despite the corporation writing to the government to increase the share of the sale proceeds to 50%, the issue still remains unaddressed.
 
 Last year, 15 hotels were identified and closed down. Along with it, over 400 staff from across its properties (27 operational out of 75) have been sent on reverse deputation. But the vaunted objective of reducing losses has not been met.
 
 Also the fact that the state is now gearing up for the assembly elections, leasing out of hotels can become a political issue and may go against the government, said an official preferring anonymity.
 
 “Impending state elections is a key reason for the government not going ahead with the recommendations of PDCOR for selling and leasing out the RTDC hotels. It many not only anger the employees but also give the opposition a handle to attack the government,” he added.
 
 
