JAIPUR: Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Hospital administration had issued a order on Monday banning entry of   and video journalists in the hospital for taking pictures and video for news stories. 

 However, late in the evening, health minister   issued directions to the officials to withdraw the order. 
 
 In the order,   mentioned, “It has come to knowledge that on this hospital premises, print and electronic media take video and pictures of sensitive areas such as operation theatre, ICU, out-patient department and without giving official information to hospital authorities they publish negative stories, which are not close to reality affecting the image of hospital.” 
 
 The order further added that all heads of the department, administrative officers, medical officers, nursing superintendent and others have been directed that if anyone found taking pictures and videos, should immediately inform security guards and hospital administration.
 
 An official of SMS Hospital said that such an order was issued three years ago. Now, they have just re-issued it. 
 
 Reacting on the diktat issued by SMS Hospital administration, SMS medical college principal Dr US Agarwal said, “We will review the order as why such an order was issued.”
 
 The issue was raised in the state assembly in the ongoing session by MLA Govind Singh Dotasara asking why order of banning newspersons in SMS Hospital was issued. 
 
 Late in the evening, health minister Saraf immediately issued directions to SMS Hospital administration to withdraw the order. He said that media is the fourth pillar of democracy and it has its own importance in democracy. 
 
 
 
 
 Sawai Man Singh Hospital will strengthen its infrastructure for oxygen supply inside the hospital. Recently, a resident doctor raised concern over inappropriate supply of oxygen. According SMS Hospital officials, there are eight plants supplying oxygen to 1,000 points in operation theatres, ICUs and wards. Now, the hospital is aiming to provide a point for every bed in the hospital. 
 
 According to hospital administration, there are 300 oxygen points at ICU, 58 in operation threatre and 600 points at other places. There is a pipeline, which supplies oxygen to the points for patients. In a day, 600 oxygen cylinders are used. Each cylinder contains six cubic metre of oxygen. Officials said that they keep 250 oxygen cylinders in backup and also the firm which supplies the oxygen also keep 300 cylinders in reserve each day for SMS Hospital.
 
 
