PUNE : Platform number one at Pune railway station will have two battery operated cars ferrying passengers and their luggage to reach their compartments, the Central Railway, Pune division authorities said.

 An official told TOI that they were looking for a private party who can provide the cars and run them efficiently on the station’s premises. “The plan is on our agenda. We are looking for a private party who can operate these cars on the platform. We will start with two such cars. The idea is to ensure that elderly people don’t have to walk a long distance to reach their compartments,” a railway official told TOI.
 
 It is usually a half km walk, especially on platform one. The official said the endeavour was a part of a corporate social responsibility scheme. “ We are talking to three or four private parties at this moment,” the official said.
 
 “We hope that the service will start in a couple of months. Such a service existed at the station some years ago. But there was some issue with the drivers and it fizzled out after a year. The service is being revived now. We will make sure that there are no hiccups,”
 
  
 If the private party demands that the drivers’ salaries should be taken care of, some amount will be charged from the passengers who use the service. 
 
  Sources said the two cars were set to be introduced on platform number one of the station for now. 
 
 “Of the six platforms, platform one is the longest and all the main trains leave from here. The two battery-operated cars on this platform will help passengers. The Pune rail yard is getting remodeled and the project will see the length of all the platforms increasing so that long trains can be stationed in all of them. We will consider a phased increase of these battery-operated cars and on the other platforms too,” another official told TOI.
 
 Nasir Sheikh, whose 71-year-old father travelled recently from Pune, said the service was essential for all platforms. “He had to walk for 10 minutes to reach his compartment. I tried to arrange for a wheelchair service but failed to get one. The battery operated car is essential and will help passengers, especially senior citizens. However, the service has to be free. Passengers pay for the tickets and visitors for the platform tickets. One should not have to pay extra for a service which is being provided,” Sheikh, a resident of  , told TOI.
 
 Harsha Shah, president of  , said the service should have started a long time ago. “The last time they shut it down was because of the drivers who were recruited by the Railways. They used to work at other places and deliberately keep their phones out of range so that they could not be reached. The   should have ensured that the service continues smoothly. They will have to be more responsible,”   said.
 
 
