Jayashree   was in for a surprise on Sunday morning when she spotted the rare pied harrier, a winter migrant from Central Asia, in Siruthavoor Reserve Forest along Old Mahabalipuram road.

 The avid bird watcher was one of the participants in the 11th edition of the annual Chennai   organised by the Madras Naturalists’ Society. MNS president K V Sudhakar said around 80 people registered for the event and were divided into 20 teams.  , who organised the first birdrace in the country in Mumbai in 2005, said, “We designed the bird race in India to suit our conditions. In some countries, the race is organised for a full 24 hours but we decided to hold it between 6am and 6pm.”
 
 The participants were divided into teams of four with each team having an expert bird watcher along with three amateurs. The location and the number of birds seen in a particular area had to be recorded in a booklet given to the teams.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The bird sighting areas were divided into wetlands and wooded areas. Pallikaranai marshland, Vedanthangal bird sanctuary, Perumbakkam wetland and Kelambakkam creek were the wetlands, while Guindy National Park, Theosophical Society, IIT-M campus,   and Siruthavoor reserved forests were the wooded areas.
 
 Fifteen-year-old N Mahathi, who is a regular participant in the last three years, said a number of birds which used to be common in the city were hard to find during the race on Sunday.
 
 Participants recorded 115 species during the event. The team led by Mitra recorded the maximum number of species – 108. “Our team started the race at Vedanthangal from 6am. For that, we left the city around 4.30am. Many waterbodies on the OMR have been replaced by concrete high rise buildings. But the city still has some green cover where one can see these winged visitors,” she said.
 
 Some of the rare birds recorded during the event included the pied harrier in t Siruthavoor reserved forests, c babbler in Nanmangalam, rudd crake and lesser whistling duck i akkam marshland and forest wa is a migrant from the Himalay Theosophical Society.
 
