MANALI: Kullu police formed five ground teams, comprising members of National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), mountaineers and search experts, to look for 30-year-old   Chadha, a tourist from New Delhi who went missing during a trek near Manali on April 10. 

 The teams were formed even as 2 Indian Air Force (IAF) choppers carried out several sorties over the weekend to look for Chadha, but did not get any clues. Manali DSP   said the area was vast and covered with pine and deodar forest. “The upper region is snow-clad and aerial search has not been beneficial,” he said. 
 
 The official said they had pressed dog squads into service too, and they could be of benefit in the tough terrain. The five teams comprise 65 members in all. According to the DSP, this was one of the largest search operations carried out in the area.
 
 The   said the search was concentrated in the forest above Jagatsukh and   villages, 13km from here, where Akhil was last seen. “But we are searching for him in the entire district and information about his whereabouts has been passed on to the police forces of other districts too,” he said.
 
 Police have also sought the help of mountain search-and-rescue expert   and his team. Akhil, who was on the   trek along with 11 other friends, had last camped with the entire group at Sara-baggi, a stop on the route. Akhil’s family has announced a reward of Rs 1 lakh for information about him.
 
 The DSP said the search will continue until they get any clues about the missing man. “There are few chances that he moved to another place, so the radius of our search is very wide. Our team is searching for him in Kasol and   as well. We are looking at gorges and bushes, and now moving to higher regions which are covered with snow,” he said.
 
 Akhil was a member of a team of 12 friends who had started Hamta circle trek from Manali on April 8. The team was accompanied by a cook, helper and guide. They camped at Sara-baggi on April 9. On April 10, Akhil got separated from the group and disappeared.
 
 
