TOHRA (PATIALA): Two days after the state government transferred almost the entire staff of the Government Senior Secondary School at   in   district, a large number of students and parents held a protest outside the school on Monday and even locked its main gate ruing that the decision had adversely affected their studies.

 The decision for transfer of teachers, including the school principal, had come after a Dalit girl studying in the school had filed a complaint with the   in November 2017, which had asked the district authorities to look into the matter.
 
 Due to the protest, the authorities had to call off a pre-board examination for Class X that had been scheduled for Monday. While fearing threat due to the prevailing circumstances, the family of the victim girl decided not to send her to school till the situation normalized in the village.
 
 The students alleged that their final exams were just around the corner and transferring all teachers would affect their studies. They claimed that instead of transferring all the teachers, only those who were facing allegations should have been shifted out.
 
 The local authorities reached the school and managed to convince the students and their parents that the decision had been taken keeping in mind the best interest of the students. They said in case the parents would not let the school function, the studies of their wards would further get affected. Following that, the agitators called off the protest as the transferred teachers were handed over their relieving letters while the new teachers joined at school.
 
 As many as 16 staffers, including the principal of the school, had been transferred with immediate effect after the girl, a topper, had alleged that she faced caste discrimination for a long time and was thrashed by the three boys after she had refused to help them cheat in the exams in April 2017.
 
 The school staffers had been transferred on the basis of a report submitted by district authorities who were looking into the allegations of casteist remarks and harassment of the Dalit girl at the village school. The report submitted had pointed out at “improper” environment for studies at the school and recommended the transfer of staff to improve the situation.
 
 Meanwhile, a four-member fact-finding committee, appointed by the  , on Monday met the girl and her family members and recorded their statements. The entire process was also videographed. The committee members said they would present the report before the   for considerations.
 
 The video of Dalit girl being thrashed had also gone viral in May last year. She had filed a complaint with the state SC commission in November 2017, following which an inquiry had been ordered.
 
 
