THANE: The   on Wednesday recorded Hindi film   Udita Goswami’s statement in connection with the illegal call detail record ( )   unearthed by Thane   in January. 

 In 2013 and 2014, Goswami had allegedly accessed the CDR of her   husband  , who was then her boyfriend, following some differences between them. 
 
 “We learnt that   had met Rizwan Siddique (celebrity advocate accused of sourcing the CDR of actor Nawazuddin Siddiqui’s wife) then. The advocate had suggested to Goswami that he could get Suri’s ‘itemized phone bill’. Later, Siddique got the CDR through one of his sources, and the couple’s differences were sorted out as nothing suspicious was found in it,” said a police officer.
 
 The couple visited Crime Branch Unit-I on Wednesday afternoon where Goswami recorded her statements under the supervision of senior inspector Nitin Thakare, who is heading investigation into the case. 
 
 The couple said they were present to help the police probe.
 
 Cops said that while going through the seized material from Siddique, they found that Suri’s CDR, too, had been illegally sourced from one of the accused. A senior police officer added that while Suri does not know Siddique, Goswami has reportedly admitted to being a client of the celebrity lawyer.
 
 Ever since the racket was busted, cops have been calling witnesses and those related to the case and recording their statements.
 
 Other than Siddique, they had arrested woman detective Rajani Pandit and 11 others in the alleged racket. 
 
 While Pandit got bail, Rizwan was released after the high court rapped Thane crime branch and held that the police had acted in a “high-handed” manner and had failed to follow “due process of law”.
 
 A police officer added that another set of phone numbers was found with the accused and is currently under investigation.
 
 Suri has directed several movies, including Kalyug, Awarapan, Raaz, Murder 2, Aashiqui 2 and Ek Villain. Goswami made her debut in 2003 with the movie Paap. She later acted in Zeher and Aksar. The couple has a daughter.
 
 
