THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Exactly one week after the post mortem report was conducted on   Skromane’s body, the team of forensic surgeons on Saturday handed over the autopsy report to the investigation team. The report confirms the death to be a case of murder.

 The team met the Fort Police sub division assistant commissioner  , who is the investigating officer in the case, on Saturday evening and handed over the report. The officer also had a lengthy chat with the doctors regarding the observations in the report.
 
  
  
 City police commissioner P Prakash said that that as per the autopsy report, the cause of the Latvian woman’s death was found to be blunt force exerted on the neck. This could be either by strangulation or stomping during an assault. There were a few minor injuries on other parts of the body too. However, the autopsy did not confirm sexual assault, he said.
 
 Meanwhile on Saturday, a fresh controversy erupted when the state police chief received a complaint that social activist   of  , who had been actively involved in the search by Liga’s sister   and the former’s live-in partner Andrew Jordan, raised funds in the name of search operations and then siphoned off the money for her own personal purposes.
 
 The police chief forwarded the complaint to IG (Thiruvananthapuram)  , who is overseeing the investigation. The IG assigned the city special branch officers to conduct an inquiry into the matter. The complaint was filed by one Panangode Anilkumar.
 
 Later,   addressed the media along with   and dismissed the allegations. She said that if there was a police inquiry, she was ready to face it and prove her innocence legally.
 
 Ilze said that if the complainant believed that Aswathy duped her, he should have first approached her to confirm it before going to the DGP.
 
 Aswathy had come under strong online attack from CPM supporters after she alleged that the chief minister refused to meet Liga’s family despite several attempts.
 
 “At the time of making that statement, Aswathy was not aware that our requests to meet the CM had not reached him and he was unaware of it. Since she made that statements in  , I could not understand it then. Now that we are aware of it we apologize and for the mistake the happened,” Ilze said adding that it was human to commit mistakes and requested everyone to stop making controversies out of it and appreciate the good works done by Aswathy.
 
