CENTURION: India’s rout of the world’s top-ranked One-Day team over the last 16 days notwithstanding, and regardless of their rise to the top spot in the 50-over format post the six-match series, the towering win here in South Africa – in no manner particular – underlines that   & Co. have found their core in the run-up to the 2019 ICC World Cup.

 
 
 
 
 
 That, says coach  , “is still work in progress.”
 
 Speaking to TOI on the eve of the last one-dayer at the Supersport Park on Friday, Shastri said “We’re far from ready. This is a great win. But there’s a lot of work to do over the next few months.”
 
 The next few months will lead to the tour of England, where India is slated to visit post the 2018 Indian Premier League (IPL) and there — England will host the next year’s World Cup — “a picture could begin to emerge,” says the India coach.
 
 Shastri and the team management are “not at all convinced” with the manner in which the middle-order contributed in these six one-dayers. “It’s an area that requires work to be done. The top-order has batted beautifully and our bowlers were phenomenal but the fifth, sixth and the seventh slot in the batting order needs to be worked upon. Once we’re done with this series, we’ll have to sit down and weigh all options once again very carefully,” he said.
 
 With   missing out post the first three one-dayers due to injury, India roped in Mumbai batsman Shreyas Iyer in his place to bat at No. 5, followed by   at No. 6 and wicketkeeper-batsman   at No. 7.
 
 While Shastri is absolutely certain, and so is the rest of the team management, that Dhoni happens to be a priceless proposition for this team, India will have to look at the shortfalls in a different light moving forward.
 
 “I’ll be the first to admit our middle-order batting has looked ordinary. We failed to convert good starts into big totals. So, there are factors we’re looking at. At the same time, there are players back in India who’ve been doing well in domestic cricket. Over the last six months, we had conveyed (to those who are potential India caps) what the team will be looking at, in terms of skills, fitness, challenges etc. Once this tour concludes, it’ll be time to revisit those conversations,” Shastri added.
 
 The coach is overjoyed, and so is the rest of the India camp, with the manner in which India have bowled throughout this series. The pacers in the Test series, spinners in the one-dayers, they’ve all been impressive and Shastri has one less factor to think about as India move to several other crucial assignments this year. “(Yuzvendra) Chahal and (Kuldeep) Yadav have been brilliant and Boom (Jasprit Bumrah), what can I say about him. It’s been a fantastic effort. As I said, we’ll sit and go through all of this once we’re done here.
 
 “The most important bit? Look at the middle-order. If we can work on that and improve, there’s no stopping this Indian team,” says Shastri.
 
 
