Cleared

 Puducherry: Expressing deep anguish over the tardy execution of projects in improving rural sanitation amenities in the Union territory, lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi on Saturday said the free rice scheme will be implemented only in the villages that are declared open defecation-free and free of garbage and plastic waste materials. Bedi set a deadline of four weeks, ending May 31, for the villages to achieve the goal so as to avail the free rice scheme.
 
 Bedi passed the controversial direction during her weekend rounds, accompanied by her team and covering a few hamlets in Mannadipet village in the outskirts of the town on Saturday. She issued a direction to the director (civil supplies) and notices to villages (officials of local bodies), giving them a four-week deadline (May 31) to make villages clean. She also wrote to chief minister V Narayanasamy, conveying her decision.
 
 “Last two years, I have not seen local representatives and public officials determined to make rural Puducherry clean within a time frame. I am sorry this cannot go on. This was the 155 Morning Weekend Round Of Team RajNivas spanning over the last two years. Yet we have not transformed in proportion to the effort and energy that has gone into,” she said.
 
 She said the free rice scheme will be implemented in the villages only after the MLAs and commissioners of the commune panchayats concerned issue a joint certification that the villages are ‘clean and free of strewn garbage’. 
 
 In order to inculcate a sense of responsibility amongst the local community, it should keep its localities clean and healthy, said Bedi. “The rice distribution shall therefore be made conditional to the certification that the village is open defecation free and free of strewn garbage and plastics,” she said in the letter addressed to Narayanasamy.
 
 Bedi said the certification shall also be cross-checked to ensure its veracity. She expressed optimism that the move will inculcate a sense of responsibility among the people and will hasten the objective of Swachh Grameen Union territory.
 
 Bedi’s controversial decision will lead to a fresh round of confrontation between the Narayanasamy-led Congress government and the Raj Nivas. AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan came down heavily on Bedi accusing her of humiliating, denigrating and demeaning the poor people who depend on rice given free of cost by the government. 
 
 He said the government, which spends several crores of rupees, engaging a private firm to keep the town limits clean, had failed to take similar initiatives in keeping the villages clean. He held the administration and government officials concerned responsible for the poor civic and sanitation amenities in the rural parts of the territory and not the poor villagers.
 
 Eom
 
 
