MUMBAI:   of the   on Tuesday did not grant two weeks as sought by   to submit affidavits of   but gave time till April 4 in a matter where   had in January terminated its agreement with its sister company Guruashish for redevelopment of almost 700 tenements on over 40 acres of prime land in Goregaon (West).

 The 10-acre project is part of a 48-acre Mhada layout in Siddarth Nagar and is estimated to be worth over Rs 1,200 crore.
 
 The matter was in court for compliance of a March 14 order which had directed HDIL and its promoter director Sarang Wadhawan to disclose on affidavits details of their assets including personal assets, bank balance and Income Tax Returns from 2011, within two weeks. Counsel for HDIL Subir Kumar on Tuesday sought an extension of two weeks to submit the affidavits. He said that since it was March-ending many banks were unable to provide the necessary details. He said there are 90 banks in which HDIL has accounts and about half of them have not made bank account statement available. Justice Kathawalla was unmoved and said, “Give me the list of these banks.’’
 
 The HC asked HDIL to submit whatever details they have so far, on affidavit so that others could study. The HC is hearing a bunch of pleas filed by builders who were sold development rights in 2011 by Guruashish for free-sale component. The land belongs to Mhada. 
 
 Meanwhile, on Tuesday, National Company Law Tribunal, (NCLT) Mumbai reserved for orders an application filed by a ‘resolution professional’ –an insolvency officer. The officer has sought to restrain implementation of the termination notice and to prevent Mhada from taking any coercive steps to take back the possession of land from the developer, Guruashish Constructions till completion of corporate insolvency resolution process. But Mhada counsel Janak Dwarkadas opposed the officer’s plea and said that “a fraudster’’ cannot be given any relief. The Housing Authority in its arguments before NCLT said that a “Corporate Debtor had no right to sell land to third parties without first complying with the obligations of handing over to MHADA and the tenants, contracted built up area.’’
 
 On January 12, Mhada terminated an agreement of April 10, 2008. The project is incomplete but Guruashish had created third party rights through free sale development rights based on a 2011 NOC given by Mhada’s then vice president Satish Gavai. Mhada sought return of its land prompting builders who had bought the free sale rights to rush to HC for relief to protect their rights. 
 
 
