NEW DELHI: Double Paralympic gold medalist and Khel Ratna recipient   has singled out India’s para-lifters as serious medal contenders at the upcoming   to be held at   City, in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland, from April 4-15.

 
 
 
 
 
 On Monday, the Sports Ministry confirmed India’s 325-member contingent for the Gold Coast Games and it included 13 para-athletes - six in powerlifting, three in table tennis and four in swimming. Writing in today’s TOI, the 36-year-old who in 2016 became the first Indian para-athlete to win two gold medals at the Paralympic Games, singled out the power lifters. 
 
 “All the athletes representing India in para events have qualified for the games but I feel the power lifting are the ones that are likely to win medals. Of the four power lifters my bet is on Sachin Chowdhury being the outstanding performer,” wrote Jhajharia, who in 2017 was the one of the para-athletes honoured for their Rio Games success with the Times of India Sports Awards (TOISA). “He has been consistently performing well lately. Even Sakina Khatun among the others has tremendous experience and could spring a surprise. She had won a bronze in the 2014 Commonwealth Games. The other two, Farman Badshah and Ashok Kumar could also do well.”
 
 
 
 
 
 According to Jhajharia, who was part of the esteemed TOISA jury for this year’s awards that celebrated the best of Indian sport, the   was a tremendous platform for India’s para-athletes. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “The best thing about the Commonwealth Games for the para-athletes is that they get to perform on the same stage as all the other athletes. This is not the case in Paralympics and other multi-event games. Not only this, even the medals awarded are the same as the other athletes. In these games according to the events allocated Indian para-athletes will be competing in power lifting, swimming and table tennis,” he wrote. 
 
 “In table tennis, Maharashtra’s Vaishnavi and Bengal’s Sarkar will compete for India, both being national champions. In swimming India will be represented by Pune’s Vaishnavi and Jodhpur’s Kiran Tak. Vaishnavi qualified by performing well at the Dubai Asian Youth Para Games. My advice to all the para athletes will be that nothing is impossible.” 
 
