NEW DELHI: Top Union government functionaries on Thursday slammed   for twisting facts in a sexual harassment case involving   district judge P   and said it is 'astonishing' the complainant lady magistrate was neither called to depose in an inquiry nor were the apex court's Vishaka guidelines followed. 

  Outlining a sharp and 'no-holds-barred' reaction from the law ministry and department of justice, sources explained why the ministry wrote directly to Karnataka chief justice   to 'look into' the sexual harassment complaint against Bhat by the lady judicial magistrate . 
 
  In a letter to all the judges of the SC, Chelameswar, the senior-most judge, has taken exception to the Centre writing directly to Justice Maheshwari regarding the collegium's recommendation to elevate Bhat to the HC. Chelameswar, who had in January held a press conference to highlight grievances against CJI Dipak Misra, wrote that while five of the recommendations for elevation were accepted by the government, it decided to block Bhat and then wrote directly to Justice Maheshwari instead of taking up the matter with the collegium. 
 
  In his letter to the CJI, also marked to all SC judges, he said the judiciary has lately been accused of yielding to the executive, which has been nixing appointment of 'inconvenient' judges. 
 
  Sources gave a perspective to what "was not mentioned" in the five-page letter by Justice Chelameswar, who has severely criticised the law ministry and Justice Maheswari for acting in league to scuttle appointment of district judge Bhat as HC judge by attempting to reopen a two-year-old sexual harassment complaint of the lady magistrate. 
 
    said then chief justice of Karnataka HC C S K Mukherjee had inquired into the complaint and in his report to the SC collegium termed it "incorrect and concocted" and that the magistrate's allegations were "only to malign Bhat" to nix his appointment as an HC judge. 
 
 Government sources said it is unthinkable that the same SC, which had laid down stringent mandatory guidelines to sternly deal with sexual harassment complaints at workplace, should cursorily brush aside the lady magistrate's sexual harassment charges and brand them "incorrect and concocted' through an "unheard of discrete inquiry process' conducted by then Karnataka CJ S K Mukherjee.
 
  "It is unheard of also that a sexual harassment complaint by a judicial officer against her superior got decided without the inquiry officer thinking it fit to hear the complainant's version even once. Does this reflect the sensitivity the SC had attached in the Vishaka case to adjudication of sexual harassment complaints? Is this the example being set by the highest citadels of justice by cursorily discarding a magistrate's complaint," said a source. 
 
 "What kind of message is being sent to other subordinate lady judicial officers when sensitive complaints are brushed aside through discrete inquiries by the HC CJ and accepted by the SC collegium? Worse, the person accused of sexual harassment is being persisted for being appointed as a judge in the constitutional court," a source said.
 
  The 15-page typed and sworn complaint by the lady magistrate, copy of which is with TOI, narrates the plight of an unmarried woman judicial officer and is of such nature that it at least warrants a thorough inquiry and not a discrete one to give clean chit to a district judge. She has accused Bhat of repeatedly forcing her to visit him alone late at night . 
 
  "This kind of complaint against a HC judge at the very first instance would require the CJI to set up of an in-house inquiry. But, the same SC collegium thought it fit to go by a discrete inquiry which did not follow the Vishaka guidelines," said a source . 
 
  When the SC collegium buried the complaint and made the complainant appear a liar, the lady officer complained to the President and the Prime Minister. Despite this, successive CJIs had requested the government to appoint Bhat as HC judge as per the earlier recommendation made after a clean chit to him through 'discrete' inquiry. The PMO forwarded the complaint to the law ministry, which decided to write to the HC CJ, given the earlier stonewalling by the higher judiciary . 
 
  Sources said Chelameswar appears either "blissfully unaware of the facts" or "not bringing them up in his letter" while criticising the Centre for meddling in the affairs of the judiciary. "He would not have taken up the cause of a person against whom a sexual harassment charge has not been inquired as per the SC's laid down guidelines if he was aware of the facts," said a source. 
 
 
