Television couple   and  , who tied the knot on May 3, 2015, are all set to begin a new, exciting phase in their lives. They are all set to embrace parenthood;   is in her second trimester and the baby is due in November.

 Talking exclusively to BT, Karan, the elated father-to-be, says, “It’s sinking in slowly, and I am ecstatic. I can’t go through the emotions and transformations, which Ankita is going through. It’s a beautiful phase for her as she will graduate from a wife to a mother. I plan to spoil our baby silly with love and pampering once he/she is born. We would like to have two kids — both Ankita and I are the only children of our parents and we understand the need for a sibling.”
 Ankita cuts in, saying, “I was in agreement with that (having two kids) till a few weeks ago. But for now, I want to be through with the first one and enjoy the phase.”
 
 So, how did she break the good news to her hubby? “I kept thinking about ways to do it and even searched the internet. We had been trying to have a baby for some time, so when it was confirmed, I just showed up on his set and entered his vanity van. He guessed it from the way I smiled. I didn’t have to spell it out,” the actress recalls.
 
 Like any doting husband,   tries to spend as much time as he can with Ankita. “Fortunately, I have an easier schedule now and on most days, I am back home by 8.30 pm to be with her. We have also been travelling; recently, we took off to   for a staycation; we didn’t step out of the hotel at all,” he said, adding jokingly, “I hope all her mood swings happen when I am away shooting, so that I don’t have to bear the brunt.”
 
 Ankita adds, “The truth is, he has been a witness to all my mood swings and he has also been at the receiving end of it. He was baffled initially, but once I just told him, ‘Don’t you realise, I am pregnant’. Since then, he has been absorbing it all.”
 
 Meanwhile, those close to Karan know that he is a child at heart. So, is he game for the responsibility of a child? He replies, “It’s good to be a kid at heart, because the world of grown-ups is complicated (smiles). I like to have fun and enjoy life and that’s what I would like my child to learn from me. I would want him/her to imbibe the quality of patience from Ankita, as she is the most patient woman I have known after my mom. It’s not easy handling the Patels (laughs).” Ankita adds, “I love his sense of humour and intelligence. So, I would want my child to have a sense of humour like his/her dad.”
 
 The couple hasn’t zeroed in on names yet. Karan shares, “I would love to have a daughter, as baby girls are their fathers’ angels. I am looking forward to changing nappies and waking up at odd hours.”
 
 Even as they are getting ready to welcome their first biological baby, Karan and Ankita already have another ‘child’ — their pet dog, Naughty. Looking affectionately at him, Ankita says, “Naughty is our firstborn. In fact, Karan and I bonded over animals, especially dogs, during our first meeting. That’s the primary reason I said ‘Yes’ to him. I cannot be interested in a man, who can’t have a dog in his house and on his bed. Naughty sleeps with us and we like it that way.”
 On a parting note, Karan says that the baby will be a befitting reply to people who have been spreading rumours about trouble in their marriage. “This is the best answer we could give to all those who cast aspersions on our marriage. Some said that it won’t last, while others wondered what we were thinking when we got married. So guys, this is what we were thinking — togetherness forever,” he signs off.
 
 
