NEW DELHI: The news is that the current drive to clear areas of encroachment, as directed by the Supreme Court, is successful for the day. Apparently, within hours the encroachers return to the place from where they were evicted. But is this too surprising? 

 
 
  
 
 The experience of a dozen years ago should have alerted the civic authorities about the pitfalls of demolishing without a long-term plan in mind. On February 1, 2006, bulldozers brought down building after building along the fashion designers’ hub that the Mehrauli-Gurgaon   had become. The message had been clear: violations will not be tolerated, no matter how rich or famous the owners. A drive along the road today, however, proves the lack of force behind that intent. 
 
 The demolitions on MG Road were the result of Delhi high court observing on January 18, 2006: “A free-for-all situation prevails over lal dora areas. Flats, malls, business houses and hotels are mushrooming there. Urban planning is turning into slum planning.” The court, pointing out that unauthorised construction was causing parking and infrastructure-related problems, asked the then Municipal Corporation of Delhi to bring down all illegally erected structures. 
 
 On February 1 of that year, the fashion fraternity watched in disbelief as bulldozers went at the glass-and-granite facades of two malls, where India’s A-list designers had outlets. The drive also saw showrooms being sealed across what in the land records constitute New Manglapuri, Sultanpur and Ghitorni villages.
 
 When TOI revisited the urban villages recently, the two malls stood semi-demolished in the company of residential properties, farm houses, motels and showrooms. A resident of a house adjoining one of the malls narrated how they had to take precautions during strong winds because the danger of falling concrete slabs from the half-wrecked building could not be discounted. Once a large chunk fell on his car, the man said. The building owners did take care to barricade the site, but last week’s storm brought down the metal sheets, leaving the dilapidated structure open to view.
 
 Down the narrow road clogged with cars and showrooms stocks, construction activity was visible. The posterior portion of a building sealed in 2006 is today a plush showcase of high-end furniture and furnishings. South Delhi Municipal Corporation officials explained that this section was desealed after the Special Provisions Act, 2014, amended the laws and paved the way for existing buildings to escape demolitions and shutdowns. Permission for reconstructing the front part, however, hasn’t been given. Many other buildings on the road received the benefit of the Special Provisions Act, though the law still does not allow new construction. But unmindful of this provision, a single-storey commercial centre has come up in the neighbourhood. 
 
 TOI noticed large-scale building activity taking place behind green construction screens in New Manglapuri. Then as one advanced towards Ghitorni, large concrete beams became visible at a corner. Nearby, an open construction site reflected the confusion over whether new erections were allowed or not. The most blatant violations appeared near the metro station where two mall-like structures are coming up. SDMC claimed to have booked these for unauthorised construction. An irate local said, “The violators initially block the visibility of the site by installing a wall, green screens or bamboo guards. Once the construction is completed, this veil is dropped and the building presented as existing before the implementation of the new norms.”
 
 SDMC officials argued that most properties like these two were recently “booked” by the civic body and action will be taken at some stage. “We have booked four properties near Ghitorni and Sultanpur under Sections 343, 344 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act dealing with   or stoppage of work at unauthorised constructions,” one of the officials said. However, some area residents provided TOI photographs of various sites from a few months ago indicating how such “bookings” had not stopped the constructors. An SDMC official said, “We apprised the Supreme Court monitoring committee of the matter and its members told us to be prepared to take action. But politicians and businessmen say that showrooms here don’t constitute misuse and are protected by the Special Provisions Act. The matter is under scrutiny and a decision will be taken soon.”
 
 The civic official said, “New structures coming up are certainly illegal. The area has become a mess due to too many rules being applied, including those related to a transit-oriented corridor, facility corridor, lal dora extension land and unauthorised colonies.” The spokesperson of the south corporation also affirmed that any fresh construction was illegal and liable to face action.
 
 The jury, however, is still out on whether the intent to punish violations in the city is matched by the will to ensure they are not repeated.
 
 
