New Year festivities in the city and suburbs left five people dead and more than 300 injured, said police, who fanned out to contain the revelry.

 Doctors, who witnessed a sharp increase in trauma cases between 11pm and 2am, said accidents accounted for 80% of the cases. An official handling the 108 emergency ambulance service said in a span of three hours before midnight, 650 ambulances were dispatched across the state. “On a routine night, we require only 300,” said the official.
 
 
 
  
 
 While two fatal accidents were reported within the city, three others happened in the suburbs. A 22-year-old man died after a loadvan struct the autorickshaw he was travelling in at Kasimedu. The victim was identified as Dinesh, a resident of Velayutham Street, Thiruvottiyur. He was returning home after celebrating New Year when the incident occurred. While Dinesh died on the spot, his two friends sustained injuries.
 
 In Egmore, a 29-year-old man died after his bike skidded.  , a resident of Egmore, was drunk and died of head injuries. In another accident involving a two-wheeler, a 27-yearold man died while on his way with a friend to a church to attend a midnight mass. The bike rammed a tree in Kancheepuram. The youngster died on the way to the hospital.
 
 At  , less than two hours from the city, a 19-year-old man died after his bike rammed a compound wall. In the impact, the victim, Parthiban, and his friend were flung into a roadside ditch. “Both of them were drunk. The accident happened around 9.30pm. The men lay on the deserted stretch for close to five hours,” said a police officer. Around 3am, one of them regained consciousness and climbed on to the road and alerted passersby. Parthiban was brought dead on arrival.
 
 In the fifth case recorded by police, a resident of   was killed when his bike crashed into the median.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Till 7am on Monday, the main government hospitals in Chennai –   Government  , Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, Stanley Medical College Hospital and Government Royapettah Hospital — received 312 injured people 53 of whom were serious.
 
 Doctors said the number of hospital admissions were lesser this year compared to previous years. “We also saw fewer head injuries,” said Dr R Narayana Babu, dean of RGGGH which saw 78 cases – all road accidents. He said most of the patients were between 16 and 35 and at least 70% victims were inebriated. “All of them were either bystanders or riding two-wheelers,” said the doctor.
 
 Royapettah hospital received the highest footfall with 158 people reporting with injuries. “More than 40% of these injuries were because of falls,” said Dr R Kannan, the hospital superintendent.
 
 In almost 200 places, the Chennai police set up temporary checkpoints and detained people riding or driving under the influence of alcohol.
 
