Trichy: All preliminary hurdles to implement phase-3 of the under ground drainage system ( ) covering 16 wards of the civic body, mostly remote wards, have been cleared by the Trichy Corporation. This phase is considered to be the longest among the three phases of in terms of area covered.

 Addressing a public hearing meeting on Sunday at  , held ahead of commencing works, Trichy Corporation officials informed residents that administrative sanction for commencing phase-3 is expected to be obtained in 15 days, following which the ground works have been scheduled to commence by July 2018.
 
 Evacuating drainage and sewage has been a chronic trouble for the city despite being coveted as the cleanest city in the state. Pollution in the delta’s lifeline Cauvery river and its distributaries have been going on with or without the knowledge of the district administration for which absence of UGD was cited as reason. 
 
 As part of addressing the issue, in 2013, parts of   was provided with UGD in phase-1 as part of a pan city project covering the entire city with efficient drainage system in a phased manner. Subsequently, in November 2017, in phase-2, 25 wards including 20 wards will be partially covered, for which work is expected to commence by June 2018. 
 
 Even before the commencement of works for phase-2, at an estimated cost of Rs 344 crore, phase-3 has been given approval by the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration at an estimated outlay of Rs 265 crore. Ahead of implementing the project, the corporation conducted a public meeting with residents of the 16 wards covering Khajamalai, Sundarraj Nagar, E Pudur and Panchapur.
 
 Welcoming the phase-3, S  , a resident of ward 39 ,said, “We were assured that the UGD works in our area would commence by early 2017, but the assurance was not kept. We expect the underground drainage works to commence without delay this time.” 
 
 The 331km-long pipeline for phase-3 would cover 32,000 households with seven pumping stations pushing the drainage to the Panchapur waste water treatment plant. “Within a short span, Trichy Corporation has managed to get approval for implementing phase-2 and phase-3 of UGD. Households have been selected based on population density. The left out wards would be covered once the population density in the wards increase,”said N Ravichandran, corporation commissioner.
 
 The Corporation sought public cooperation to implement the project by paying the deposit for UGD which will be announced shortly.
 
 
