CHANDIGARH: The think tank of seven city colleges is chalking out a plan as to how they will utilize the second installment amounting to Rs 4 crore of   ( ) scheme floated under the aegis of the Human Resource Development (HRD) ministry. 

 The colleges including Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11; Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46; Government Home Science College, Sector 10; MCM College for   Sector 36; Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45; DAV College, Sector 10 and Regional Institute of English, Sector 32 were asked to submit a list of their priorities within the week to the director of higher education.
 
 RUSA scheme of MHRD has released the grant under infrastructure head as second installment for developmental works. 
 
 The funds have been released on the basis of percentage utilization of earlier grant received from MHRD. Earlier, the Project Approval Board (PAB) of RUSA had sought approval for an amount of Rs 20 crore as a requirement for building infrastructure.
 
 Dalip Kumar, Additional State Project Director of RUSA), Chandigarh said that a priority list will be issued for each college eligible to receive the grant with a deadline of completion of the projects which they have proposed under RUSA. A meeting for the same would be called soon.
 
 As per the RUSA norms, the infrastructure grants will be utilized for new constructions like establishment of new laboratories for existing programmes and for new programmes both at undergraduate and post graduate levels. There will be new classrooms, toilets and computer labs will be established. The revamping works like modernisation of sports facilities, improvement of supporting department, academic and administrative block and toilets will also be done.
 
 The refurbishment of hostels, upgradation of equipment like software learning resource libraries and access to knowledge resource will be carried out. The required furniture and fixtures will also be procured.
 
 
