JALANDHAR: The former SHO of Mehatpur police station in Shahkot, Parminder Singh Bajwa, has a history of bipolar disorder and has been treated for it in the past too, according to a doctor associated with the cop’s treatment at Jalandhar civil hospital’s de-addiction centre.

 The cop will also be treated for addiction to alchol at the centre, according to the doctor. Bajwa was shifted to the de-addiction centre at Jalandhar civil hospital on Friday midnight, after doctors at   jail diagnosed him with bipolar disorder. Bajwa has found himself in the middle of a controversy after he registered a police case against the   candidate for the May 28 Shahkot assembly bypoll, Hardev Singh   Sherowalia, for alleged involvement in illegal mining.
 
 Bajwa was arrested on Friday evening, after he entered a courtroom with a revolver and claimed that his life was under threat from the Congress-ruled state government and police. Bajwa reportedly told doctors at the de-addiction centre that he had been admitted to a hospital around two years ago because of the mental condition. 
 
 A source at the centre said Bajwa would also also be treated for alcohol addiction. “He had stopped consuming alcohol earlier, but started drinking again sometime ago. Because of stress in the past few days, his reliance on it had increased,” said the source.
 
 Kapurthala jail’s doctor was the first one to conclude that Bajwa needed treatment by a psychiatrist. On the basis of the jail doctor’s opinion, Bajwa was shifted to the de-addiction centre around midnight.
 
 A medical expert associated with Bajwa’s treatment at the de-addiction centre said the cop considered himself normal. “One can even work for 16-18 hours in a day. One becomes hyperactive, overconfident and talkative because of the condition. Grandiosity is another major manifestation of the problem,” said the doctor. “Equipping a patient of bipolar disorder can be dangerous and his disarming would be recommended.” 
 
 Bajwa had earlier disclosed that apart from his service revolver, he also had an AK-47 assault rifle and then a personal licenced revolver. He had also flaunted two revolvers before media a few days ago. 
 
 When contacted, de-addiction centre in-charge Dr Nirdosh Goel confirmed that Bajwa was suffering from psychiatric disorder, but refused to comment further. “While he was being blamed for acting unprofessionally after registration of the FIR and was at the receiving end of the attack from the top of the state government, including the chief minister and Congress leaders, he required treatment for his psychiatric disorder. His family issues and now professional issues have pushed him to a corner,” said one of his colleagues.
 
 Jalandhar (rural) police sources said his medical history was not on record and they were not aware he was suffering from a psychiatry disorder. While officials are refraining to come on record about him, an officer who did not wish to be named said further action would be taken against Bajwa. 
 
 Bajwa has been in the eye of storm after he registered a case against Laddi for illegal mining, after a complaint sent to state chief electoral officer had reached him in the late evening of May 3. He registered the case in the morning of May 4 and then sent his “resignation” which he later withdrew and proceeded on leave for two days. He went on record to say that he was asked to proceed on leave for another five days, but later Jalandhar (rural) police officials marked him “absent”. He had also revealed that he registered the FIR after he called up his seniors but they did not guide him and he was left alone to face the consequences as CEO had sought report within 24 hours.
 
 __
 
 ‘Daring cop’
 
 Bajwa was daring in chasing criminals and would even risk himself, said a police officer who has worked with him. “Around two years ago, they were chasing an accused in a rape case. When he and his gunmen cornered him, the accused tried to run a tractor over Bajwa. His shoulder was fractured in the chase. I can vouce for one thing: he was not a shirker,” said the officer.
 
 
