The huge non-pharma driven trials carried out in last decade has given us important insights into the disease called Diabetes. This understanding is not only important for the patients having   but those who do not have diabetes but are at risk of developing diabetes also get a lot to gain by reading this article.

 Most of the people across the globe believe that diabetes is a disease of blood sugars and therefore managing blood sugars is enough to manage diabetes. But in fact, diabetes is a disease of deposition of fat in the walls of small blood vessels known as micro angiopathy (retina, kidneys, and nerves of legs, reproductive and sexual organs) and large blood vessels also known as macroangiopathy (heart and brain). This leads to decreased circulation of these organs and ultimately permanent damage to one or more of them.
  
 Neither diabetes has any symptoms in most of the cases neither damage to these organs is symptomatic in initial phase. Therefore it is essential for everyone to understand the importance of regular checkup. If you do not have diabetes, regular checkups to detect diabetes (Fasting plasma glucose, HbA1c or OGTT) and if you have diabetes, regular checkups to see that it is under control (fasting and post prandial plasma glucose, SMBG, HbA1C) and also annual investigations to see the status of organs mentioned above.
 
 It has now been understood that microangiopathy mentioned above can be halted/prevented by controlling diabetes (Plasma glucose and HBA1c) but for preventing or halting macrovasculopathy, one needs to control HbA1c(A), Blood pressure (B) and   /Lipids (c) to a certain target values decided by doctor. Only controlling sugar may not be enough to prevent macroangiopathy that is damage to heart and brain. That explains the reason why certain patients having well developed diabetes develop heart attack or brain stroke as their blood pressure and lipids are not controlled. Even damage to kidney requires well controlled blood pressure.
 
 Most of the people believe that these targets have been created due to pharmaceutical company’s pressure but it must be understood that these targets of blood pressure, sugar and cholesterol ( Lipids) are created depending upon huge trials carried out in different parts of the world over decades under the strict surveillance of most renowned ethical committees and strict protocols. 
 
 A new terminology known as   has been coined and it will interest all those who do not have diabetes. If people not having diabetes (and not on medicines for the same), have fasting plasma glucose between 100 mg/dL and 126 mg/dL or HBA1C between 5.6 and 6.4 or both, are coined as having prediabetes. This group of people is likely to develop diabetes and cardiovascular disease in future. Importantly, it is easy to prevent development of diabetes in this group by life style changes (diet, exercise and smoking cessation) and by use of safe and cheap Insulin sensitizer drugs. 
 
 A message moving on social media suggesting that   has recently removed the cholesterol from risk factors is a wrong message. Actually, dietary cholesterol levels have been removed from the guidelines because diet does not have cholesterol in most of the foods. Dietary fat contains fatty acids and triglycerides. Cholesterol (LDL) is formed from these substances in the liver.
 
 Lastly, Recent advances suggest that intensive control of diabetes especially within initial stages (first 5-6 years of diagnosis) reduces possibilities of future damage to heart and brain. So it is imperative that one should be more aggressive in control of diabetes during the first five years of diagnosis. 
 
 
 
 
