Bathinda: The announcement to fix the minimum support price(MSP)of kharif crops at one and half times of the total production cost notwithstanding the farming community is not happy with the budget and feel most of their aspirations have not been touched in the budget. The farmers opine that not much has been done to control the agrarian crisis as only fixing MSP is not enough to check farm distress and they have serious doubts about calculating the production cost. There is dire need to fix favourable norms in determining the production cost of crops by including all the aspects associated with farming. The farmers feel that nothing has been done on the biggest crisis the farming is facing that of the mounting debt as the issue has not even touched in the budget. Punjab is hoped to get very small portion of the institutional farm credit raised from Rs. 10 lakh crore to Rs. 11 lakh crore in the budget, claim farmers. 

 The farmers also rues that the government has linked the salaries of members of parliament(MP)to inflation and this has not been felt necessary for famers who are the backbone of the economy. The minimum fixed income for farmers too need to be announced.
 
 “We have been demanding fixing of agricultural scientist MS Swaminathan recommendations about adding 50% profit in the production cost while determining the MSP. It should be done by calculating all the expenses incurred in production of crops as most of the small farmers in Punjab get land on lease for farming. The commission for agricultural costs and prices (CACP)calculate the cost without taking in account many factors like the cost of lease of land which is calculated very less which is far from ground realities. In Punjab lease money is over Rs. 40,000 per acre but it is calculated at nearly Rs. 15,000. Like wise many other expenses =as hiring farm machinery are not calculated as per prevailing market rates”, said farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri. He said the budget has untouched many othe factors like subsidy on fertilisers, putting GST on tractors apart from debt waive. Jaitley claim that MSP has been made 1.5 times on Rabi crops but here cost of production of wheat in last season was worked out at Rs. 1800 per quintal and MSP was fixed at Rs. 1625 per quintal.
 
 Prof Sukhpal Singh, head of economics and sociology department, Punjab Agriculture University said that “if all the costs including rent of land, fixed cost, family labour is calculated while fixing MSP only then farmers could be benefitted but normally variable cost is taken into account wherein fixed cost is not calculated. IN such case famers will not get any benefit”.
 
 “Punjab farmers are under debt of more than R. 70,000 crore, which is leading small farmers in committing suicides. Punjab farmers contributed maximum in masking country self reliant in food grains and now when it is turn of governments in raking care of the farm loans the budget is completely silent on it. After Punjab government deceived the farmers on loan waiver we were hoping that union government may provide respite but nothing has been done on the count”, said farmer organisation BKU Dakonda president Buta Singh Burjgill. 
 
 Finance Minister Arun Jaitley with a broad smile has linked the salaries of MPs with price index or inflation but has done nothing to fix any minimum earning of famers as our crops are prone to natural calamities and in such cases very small compensation is given, said Krantikari kisan union president Surjit Singh Phool. 
 
 There is not much scope in food processing in Punjab as doubling of allocation to Rs. 14,000 crore will not provide any benefit to Punjab farmers and government should suggest other measures to supplement farm income, said farmer Avtar Singh.
 
 
