Nagpur: Recent documents obtained by TOI reveal that the Nagpur-based Maharashtra State Biodiversity Board (MSBB) had slammed the concerned authorities of   district for causing damage to the biodiversity of  .

 On March 17, TOI had reported how civil society groups have been fighting since over a year to protect the 500-year-old Dhamapur Lake. This is said to be the state’s biggest man-made lake and a source of drinking water for many villages since centuries. The process of notifying the lake, which is spread over an area of 43.80 hectares, as a wetland is reportedly under way.
 
 Till now only environmentalists were fighting a battle against construction of a skywalk over the lake which is a threat. The matter has also been taken up by the MSBB as per the documents which reveal that a notice was issued by the board to Sindhudurg’s water resources department and public works department on February 2.
 
 The MSBB stated that the construction and beautification work which comes under the two departments has caused damage to the environment and the lake’s biodiversity. Moreover, mandatory permissions from concerned bodies were not taken before starting the construction work.
 
 “Under section 41 of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 and section 23 of Maharashtra Biological Diversity Rules, 2008, there is a provision for setting-up a biodiversity management committee at the gram panchayat level. However, there are no documents regarding permissions sought from relevant authorities,” the board stated.
 
 It further sought to know why action should not be taken against the two departments under relevant sections of Biological Diversity Act, 2002. The board had given the departments a time period of eight days to file the reply. It is not known if the departments have done so.
 
 In a letter written to the Konkan wetland grievance redressal committee on March 9, the district collector admitted that the construction work can pollute the water source. Based on the latest visit report by the tehsildar, the district administration has stopped construction of the protective wall, stainless steel railing and a viewing gallery. 
 
 “We have asked the groundwater survey department to conduct an enquiry and submit a report,” the collector stated.
 
 According to Meenal and Sachin Desai, who are running a study centre for experiential learning in Dhamapur village and were one of the first few who raised an objection to the skywalk, the 35 concrete columns are built inside in the lake in clear violation of the Supreme Court and the National Green Tribunal (NGT). “As per the rulings, construction is not allowed within 75 meters of a wetland,” they said.
 
 They added that the lake has already started dying and the water level is going down. “The water level marks are clearly visible on the pillars of the skywalk,” the couple said.
 
 The Desais have appealed to the Konkan Wetland Grievance Redressal Committee to remove the skywalk construction before the monsoons arrive. “To determine the size and strength of the skywalk, a public survey report was essential for finding out how many tourists were expected to visit before and after construction. Also, documents received from PWD show that M-15 concrete grade is used in the skywalk foundation. ISI recommended concrete grades too haven’t been used and it might result in the structure getting porous and collapsing,” they said.
 
 LAKE BE DAMNED
 
 Built in 1530, is said to be the biggest lake of Sindhudurg district
 
 Spread over 43.80 hectares and adjoined by a reserve forest
 
 Facing severe threat from construction of a 2.5 kilometre long skywalk and use of a diesel boat
 
 As per NGT’s order, no construction to take place within 75 meters of lakes. This area is a buffer zone
 
 Breaching rules, 35 concrete pillars built inside the water body
 
 A total report of 134 plants out which many are rare species are being damaged due to construction activities
 
 
