CHENNAI: Perplexed by town panchayat officials’ blatant disregard of a   order regarding  , a group of   residents used measuring instruments to establish that the road height has continued to increase in their neighbourhood.

 The first bench of the Madras high court on March 9 had chided the   officials for executing “unscientific road relaying” work. While disposing the PIL filed by a Chitlapakkam resident, Chief Justice Indira Banerjee observed that the rising road height was putting residents in distress, and that to avoid such situations local bodies must scrape off the old bitumen layer before re-laying.
 
 According to Sunil Jayaram, a Chitlapakkam resident,   near Chitlapakkam lake was relaid recently. “The contractor and the town panchayat were fully aware of the high court order about relaying after scraping off the top layer,” he said, adding that the contractor milled the road only in bits and parts.
 
 “After it was relaid, we found that the road height had increased by two to five inches in the entire stretch,” Jayaram added. Residents used a measuring stick to compare the road height before the relaying and after.
 
 Bala Chandar, a member of Chitlapakkam Rising  , said that continued ignorance of the town panchayat in this issue would only complicate problems during monsoon. “Because of the increased height, this area (Raghavendra Road) will retain more water when it rains and inflow into the nearby storm water drain too would be tough,” he said.
 
 Chitlapakkam town panchayat officials could not be reached for comment. Jayaram said that residents would have no choice but move a contempt petition against the local body should these instances repeat.
 
 Advocate Varsha Sridharan, who argued the PIL, told TOI that unscientific road relaying was not specific to Chitlapakkam. “If the HC is to intervene, then the result should be standardisation of road relaying procedures across Tamil Nadu. We should start with asking road engineers and experts if it isn’t possible to relay a road without necessarily increasing its height,” she said.
 
