NAGPUR: Junior colleges in city with high enrolment in science stream will now be under the scanner of the education department as a part of its efforts to curb the college-coaching class nexus. Many junior colleges in city are known to have tie-ups with coaching classes and allow students to bunk lectures and prepare for medical/engineering entrance exams.

 A highly placed source in the department confirmed to TOI that the state government was keeping a vigil on the entire matter. “A few months ago, we were asked to submit a report mentioning which college has a tie-up with which coaching class. Now, as the new session begins, we will be sending flying squads to check on attendance and then take further action as required,” said the official. 
 
 Even some junior college principals in city confirmed the college-coaching class nexus was not only rampant but also a big money spinner for trustees. A principal said, “When the academic year starts in July, just go through the list of top enrolments. The names you will see there will hardly be known to the public at large, but admissions are taken because that’s what coaching class owners tell these students to do. Around a thousand, sometimes more, students are enrolled in such colleges and we wonder if there is even enough space to accommodate all of them.” 
 
 Colleges with a tie-up are always in a win-win situation because not only do they get to collect the fee but also get kickback from coaching classes. These kickbacks are usually for trustees in cash or kind. A principal, who claimed to know at least three such college trustees, said, “Some of them are now doing backward integration by starting schools, montessories, day care centres etc. Some have diversified into construction and even travel business now. Old colleges and trustees have remained where they are in social status, but those who started hardly 15 years ago have expanded big time.”
 
 TOI had reported earlier on how the state has started pushing colleges to implement biometric attendance system to curb the problem of students bunking classes. 
 
 
