PATNA: In a jolt to NDA in Bihar, HAM-S chief and former CM   quit the BJP-led alliance on Wednesday and joined the RJD-led Grand Alliance. Now, NDA in Bihar comprises only BJP, JD(U), LJP and RLSP. 
 
 Manjhi, the lone HAM-S MLA, cited his neglect in the NDA as the reason for parting ways. “I will join the Grand Alliance,” Manjhi told reporters after a closed-door meeting with leader of opposition in legislative assembly   Prasad Yadav in the morning. 
  
 Later, a statement from Manjhi’s office read, “I was completely neglected in the NDA. The decisions taken by me as Bihar CM were never implemented. My request for getting seats for my party in the upcoming assembly bypolls and   election were also ignored. Consequently, there was a growing discontentment among my party workers.” 
  
 Welcoming Manjhi in the GA, Tejashwi said, “Manjhi ji is like a father and guardian to us. Allies are not given respect in NDA but he (Manjhi) will get his due respect in GA.” 
  
 Sources said Manjhi had demanded two seats for his party in the state legislative council election scheduled to be held for a few seats later this year. 
  
 RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s wife and former Bihar CM Rabri Devi said Manjhi’s demand for a Rajya Sabha seat would also be considered. “Manjhi was feeling suffocated in NDA. Our ideologies match, hence he will get due respect in the GA,” she said. 
  
 Manjhi was lately showing signs of strains with respect to sharing of seats with other NDA constituents. He wanted HAM-S to contest the assembly byelection from Jehanabad, but BJP offered the seat to JD(U). Majhi had also said recently that his party would need at least 50 seats to contest in the next assembly elections to take important decisions for the underprivileged and minorities after formation of the next government. 
  
 Manjhi was appointed Bihar CM by   on May 20, 2014 but he had to resign on February 20, 2015 after waging a war against his mentor and JD(U) leadership. BJP roped in Manjhi to the NDA fold before 2015 assembly election but his party was ignored in the new NDA government formed in July last year after Nitish walked out of the GA. He wanted a berth for his party in the ministry like LJP’s chief Ram Vilas Paswan’s brother Pashupati Kumar Paras was accommodated even though he was neither an MLA nor MLC. 
  
 Manjhi has been a bitter critic of Nitish. “He (Nitish) first gave me milk, then handed me lemon (an idiom indicating sour relations),” Manjhi said on February 6 this year. 
  
 Meanwhile, JD(U) attacked Manjhi. “JD(U) has been left mostly embarrassed due to relations with Manjhi. Nitish made him CM and later he stood against him. People who were looking for Ambedkar in him have been left disappointed,” JD(U) secretary general K C Tyagi said. 
  
 But state Congress acting president Kaukab Quadri welcomed Manjhi in the GA “though he took the decision late.” 
  
 BJP functionary and state tourism minister Pramod Kumar said Manjhi’s ouster would have no adverse impact on the NDA. 
  
  
