GURUGRAM: A suspect nabbed in connection with the recent spree of   in the city, fled from the   on Friday on the pretext of going to the   after pushing one of the two on-duty cops out of his way. 

 The two cops have been suspended for negligence and a departmental inquiry has been launched against them. A fresh FIR has been registered against the accused and a manhunt has been launched to arrest him.
 
 Shahid alias Advani, who is nearly 30 years old and is from Kharkhari village of Tauru area in Mewat, was arrested last Monday from his village and taken into   custody. 
 
 Advani has a criminal background and a reward of Rs 25,000 had been earlier announced by   to catch him. 
 
 A team of more than 50 policemen led by ACP (crime) Shamsher Singh arrested Advani from his village on the suspicion that he had some role to play in the ATM thefts that are on the rise in the city. 
 
 On Tuesday, he was produced in a city court and sent to four-day police remand for interrogation.
 
 He was to be produced again in a city court on Friday but around 2am, he asked for permission from ASI Sanjeev Kumar and head constable Ram Kumar to go to the toilet. The two unsuspecting cops allowed him to but he pushed Ram Kumar out of his way and ran out. The two cops ran after him but he managed to escape, taking advantage of the darkness outside.
 
 The cops immediately informed their senior officers about the escape and a team of policemen flung into action. Cops put up barricades in the area but Advani was not found anywhere. A team was dispatched to his village but he was not there too. A fresh FIR was registered against Advani under Section 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of IPC at Bilaspur police station. Police are now conducting raids at suspected places.
 
 “It was unfortunate as the accused escaped in the night when the cops were on duty. We have suspended both. We have also formed two special teams and are looking for the accused in the surrounding area. He will be arrested soon,” said Ashok Bakshi, DCP (South), Gurugram.
 
 
