Hubballi: The liquor business seems to be badly hit by the poll   of conduct. Disgusted by alleged harassment by officials, owners of liquor shops in Hubballi-Dharwad and Dharwad district are mulling over shutting their establishments till the elections are over. Curiously, they don’t have the freedom to shut down their business as per the Excise Act.

 T M Meharwade, president,   Liquor Dealers’ Association, said excise licencees are being treated like fraudsters or criminals. “The government was getting Rs 1,800 crore revenue from the excise business till 2003. Now, it has crossed Rs 18,000 crore. We’re involved in a business which has legal sanctity under the purview of the Constitution. The business has been hit since March 27 when the code of conduct came into place,” he added.
 
 Santosh Shetty, president, Dharwad District Wine Dealers’ Association (DDWDA), said all licence holders have been following instructions given by officials of the excise, police and other departments. “Recently, the Hubballi-Dharwad police commissioner said we should install CCTV cameras and we did it. However, on April 28, the excise commissioner ordered temporary suspension of licences of about 1,200 shops in the state for petty offences. As per this order, 30 shops have been closed in Dharwad district and this has led to more customers at other shops. And, these 30 shops are being viewed suspiciously by customers,” he added.
 
 Sunil B Walvekar, vice-president, DDWDA, said: “Usually, we submit our accounts details to the   once a month. But, due to the code of conduct, we have to submit them twice a day. We send one of our workers to the excise office in Navanagar and bear the cost of travel. Is there any such rule for other businesses? The excise department has not allowed us to submit details by email or by electronic mode.” He added that 30 shops have been closed for violation of Breach Licence Condition (BLC). “As per norms, only a penalty can be imposed for BLC. But the department has taken the drastic decision of temporarily suspending the licence,” he said.
 
 When contacted, officials at the excise office, Navanagar, declined to comment but said they have received a memorandum from the DDWDA and forwarded it to their superiors in Bengaluru. “As the issue is related to statewide enforcement, officials there have to take a call on it,” they added.
 
 Liquor shortage 
 
 Liquor shops are suffering from a shortage of liquor in the district. “Due to elections, the excise department is supplying limited quantity of liquor. If we demand 10 cases, they give only five. We’re facing the wrath of customers. As per current norms, one person can buy 1.75 litres of liquor at a time. It’s not applicable to beer. However, supply of all types of liquor and beer is restricted. How can we run our businesses? We’re mulling over shutting all shops in the district till May 15. However, officials say we cannot shut shops voluntarily as per the Excise Act,” said Y H Irkal, Sanjeev Kalal, Mahesh Shetty, Mohan Kabade, Gururaj Kulkarni and other office-bearers of DDWDA.
 
 ‘Revoke suspension in three days’
 
 At a meeting held in Bengaluru on Tuesday, chief election officer Sanjiv Kumar is said to have directed excise commissioner Munish Moudgil to revoke the temporary suspension of licenses imposed on 1,200 liquor shops in the state within three days. It’s said that Kumar asserted that the Election Commission had not issued such instruction to the excise department to suspend the liceses. It is also learnt that Kumar directed Moudgil to supply liquor as per requirement. Office bearers of the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association of Karnataka were also present in the meeting.
 
 
