KOCHI: The   ( ) is planning to launch a medical tourism project, which is also expected to give a boost to agricultural development in rural areas.

 The Hygeia Valley project envisages development of a sustainable township and a medical tourism hub in Puthiyakavu near Tripunithura at a cost of around Rs 1,500 crore. The funds will be sourced from private investment on 110 hectares of land, which consists of 70% uncultivated agricultural land and 30% dry land. “Sustainability and compact development are the core ideas behind the project. The project is expected to be a model for the entire state,” said C N Mohanan, chairman, GCDA.
 
  
  
 
 Once the land is acquired, it will be equally used for medical tourism project as well as to promote healthy living. “On one side healthcare institutions would come up while and on the other residential buildings. The GCDA will have to construct a sustainable township with shops, banks, playgrounds, parks, gyms and day-care facilities,” said May  , senior town planner, GCDA who prepared the project’s framework.
 
 “A special purpose vehicle (SPV) will be floated in which GCDA will hold 51%. The remaining shares can be purchased by private investors. For raising funds, which the GCDA will have to put in, we have already approached the state government. Last month, we conducted a presentation before the state planning board,” Mathew said.
 
 After the township is developed, land parcels will be sold to healthcare institutions and real estate developers. “The floor area ratio
 
 250
 
 (FAR) would be 2.5 and those who want to construct highrises in the area will have to purchase transfer of development rights ( ).
 
 If a land owner in a rural area under the GCDA limits is ready to surrender his or her development right or the right to construct a building in the land owned by the person, we will give her or him a TDR certificate,” Mathew said.
 
 The land owner can sell the TDR to those who want to construct high-rise buildings in Hygeia Valley. The land owner will get financial benefit whereas the agricultural activities in his or her land will be continued. “For meeting the FAR requirements of those who want to construct residential complexes or medical institutions in the Hygeia Valley, TDRs pertaining to thousands of hectares in the rural area will have to be purchased,” she said.
 
 The entire area is envisaged as an environmentally efficient hub with smart grid, rain water harvesting, solar panels, waste recycling and waste to energy projects, among other things. The 3.5km road from SN Junction to Puthiyakavu will have to be widened to 27 metres for the project.
 
 “The GCDA has put restriction on construction on either side of the road for the past 30-35 years. So, only old and dilapidated buildings have to be pulled down. Approximately 250 families will have to be rehabilitated. We would be offering land and houses for the evictees on the either side of the Tripunithura-Puthiyakavu Road,” she added.
 
