GUWAHATI: Assam and Mizoram, which are at loggerheads over disputes at the inter-state border, have agreed to maintain status quo at   - the place where Assam Police caned agitating Mizo students on March 8, forcing Mizoram CM Lalthanhawla to seek home minister Rajnath Singh's intervention. 

 The two states have also agreed not to allow assembly of people at the spot at a tripartite meeting held in New Delhi on Tuesday chaired by Union home secretary Rajiv Gauba with Assam chief secretary TY Das and her Mizoram counterpart Arvind Ray. "Both the state governments reiterated their commitment to maintain peace and resolve the issue amicably. It was decided to maintain status quo at the spot. Assembly of people at the site will not be allowed. Both the governments will take all possible measures to maintain peace in their respective areas," said a government official. 
 
 He added, "It was also decided that a team comprising MHA joint secretary (northeast) and principal secretaries (home) of Mizoram and Assam will visit the area within a week. The team will be assisted by officials of Survey of India. The team will submit its findings to the Union home secretary after which it will be discussed in a follow up meeting with the chief secretaries of the two states." 
 
 The incident at the border occurred after Mizo students tried to build a resting shed for famers at Kachurtal near Bairabi. Assam Police personnel posted on the other side prevented the construction saying that the area fell under Assam which led to a clash between the two parties.
 
 Assam and Mizoram share a 164.6-km-long inter-state boundary along which lie Cachar, Hailakandi and   districts of Assam. An Assam government spokesman said, "There is no major dispute with Mizoram on border issues. The boundary was notified under notification No. 2106 AP dated March 9, 1933." He added that a meeting between the officials of Assam and Mizoram was held in   on September 24, 2014 and it was agreed to maintain status quo along the border." 
 
 
