NEW DELHI: Reacting to the disqualification of 20   MLAs on Sunday, chief minister   asked his partymen to stay together. “Remain united and do not give up the path of truth. Keep your faith. The truth will prevail in the end," he exhorted them. He was speaking at a function in Najafgarh where he inaugurated a sewer line project. Later, in a tweet, he said.

 The   spotted a silver lining in the adversity: “God had something in mind — that is why he gave us 67 seats. He knew that 20 MLAs would be disqualified after three years," he told his supporters. Speaking in a philosophical vein, he added: “Many obstacles come in your way when you walk on the path of truth and honesty. The path of truth is full of obstacles, but visible and invisible powers of the universe come out to help you when you walk on it. And in the end, truth prevails."
 
 He blamed the Centre for the turn of events. “They tried to harass us. They lodged fabricated cases against our MLAs. They even targeted me with a CBI raid but found nothing. Ultimately they disqualified our 20 MLAs.”
 
 An embattled Kejriwal got support from former union minister Yashwant Sinha who termed the President’s order of disqualification “a complete miscarriage of natural justice” and dubbed it “Tughlaqshahi of the worst order.”
 
 Calling the order “unconstitutional” and “dangerous for democracy”, AAP functionary Ashutosh tweeted: “President Kovind should contemplate if he has enhanced his stature in history by signing to disqualify AAP MLAs.”
 
 Meanwhile, the party continued to attack Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Election Commission of India. The party’s chief spokesperson, Saurabh Bharadwaj, vowed that the party will not be “cowed down by such intimidatory tactics of the Narendra Modi government.” He said disqualification of the MLAs showed that the constitutional authorities were behaving like handmaidens of the central government. “The EC and its commissioners are expected to behave in an independent and impartial manner and not as political stooges of their masters who appoint them. Their unjustified and hasty opinions to please their political bosses will not stand legal scrutiny."
 
 “The party has complete faith in the judiciary and will challenge this biased, illegal and illogical order of the Modi government in the   of law," Bharadwaj said. AAP Delhi convener Gopal Rai has hinted that the party will   the judiciary. "We had hoped to go to the President asking him to give us a chance to present ourselves. AAP will knock on the doors of HC and even SC if there is a need," he said.
 
 
