PANCHKULA: Over 2,000 computer teachers and lab assistants lodged a   against the   state government and gheraoed the   at Sector 5 on Wednesday noon. The main demand of the protesters was to raise their salaries which were promised by the government to them, they claimed. They later on reached   chowk to block the highway but were stopped by the cops near Majri chowk which affected the traffic as well.

 The protesters started assembling behind the Shiksha Sadan on the Rally ground in Sector 5 since Wednesday morning. Over 2,000 protesters started their protest rally protest against the government and reached the Shiksha Sadan at Sector 5.
 
 The teachers raised slogans against the government like ‘shiksha vibhaag murdabad’, ‘humari ekta zindabad’, ‘Haryana sarkar murdabad’, ‘humari maange poori karo’, among other slogans against the government. They also sat in front of the main gate of the Shiksha Sadan and raised slogans against the government and the education department.
 
 After their slogans did not generate any response, they started walking towards the Majri chowk to block the highway but were stopped by the cops before the Majri chowk. They sat down for some time but later tried to break the chain of cops to reach Majri chowk. Cops and protestors came face to face till the time, message from the Haryana Chief Minister residence did not came to the protestors in the evening around 5 pm.
 
 A delegation was sent to the Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s residence in Chandigarh and the officer present at the   listened and assured them that their problem would be taken care of.
 
 The protesters handed over their memorandum mentioning their demands to raise their salaries as per the policy of the government, to provide them salaries during their winter/summer vacation, to provide salaries to the female staff who are on maternity leave, among other demands.
 
 President of Haryana state teachers association,  , said, “The government assured us that they will raise our salary and will provide us facilities as per their policies of a regular staff but to no avail. If government will not listen to our problems, we will raise our protest.”
 
 
