If you go by the media accounts of  , it was a bleak year of unpredictable demagogues, the unraveling of  ,  ,  , refugee crises, pandemics and deaths. In fact, it was a year of small, steady, unnoticed miracles.

 The news tends to focus on events — the dramatic, the tragic — rather than the daily improvements and routine goodness in the world. The stories that circulate fastest have an element of fear and anger, and stir a sense of helplessness.
 
 But awful events are not trends. Real perspective means the ability to look at a traumatic occurrence with an awareness of the span of human experience across time — and then you see that things have never been better. We live safer and better lives, people are climbing out of extreme poverty at a remarkable clip, health, sanitation and life expectancy standards are higher than ever, fewer children are dying. In material terms, the average person, around the world, has never been better off.
 
 
  
 
 First, take violence. For much of history, it was quite likely for men to meet their deaths through mass violence and warfare. As   has pointed out, even through the bloody 20th century, that likelihood had dropped dramatically. Wars are much less frequent. Socially sanctioned violence — torture, humiliation, lynching, capital punishment — once common, is now rare and strikes us as remarkable and unconscionable. Even crime rates have dropped, at least in the richer world — in New York city, it’s currently the lowest it’s been in recorded history. And despite all the anxiety they cause, actual deaths from terror attacks have been declining too. The sense of fear is actually an optical illusion — because we now see more though mass media, we assume there is more of it.
 
 The sense of security aside, the quality of our lives is far better than those of previous generations. Living standards once accessible only to a small portion of the population are now widespread. We are eating better, both in terms of calories consumed, and the kind of food we eat. Water and sanitation have improved dramatically over the last decades, with governments and philanthropists combining their efforts.
 
 Through targeted public health interventions, we have made huge progress against the lethal diseases that stalk the world — and prevented needless deaths from diarrhoea, malaria, and other vector-borne diseases. Vaccinations, nutrition and medical attention have saved millions of children from dying, since the 1990s. Lifespans have increased dramatically everywhere. In 1900, life expectancy in the US was 41 years — now, it is over 71 for the whole world.
 
 One doesn’t have to look very far back to see how much progress we’ve made — it’s observable within one’s own lifetime. Think about the gains in literacy — what was once the prerogative of a minority is now taken for granted by the majority. Most adults can now read and write, which means that they can make informed decisions, and participate more fully in their community.
 
 Women, who bore the brunt of violence and the burden of caretaking, are slowly realising their full humanity. In education, health, family choices, asset ownership, work and leadership, women have it better than ever — and they’re determined to keep up the progress.
 
 In fact, for all the visible cruelties of our world, minority rights are acknowledged more than ever. Our circle of concern is wider than ever — the casual discrimination and humiliation that some groups were subjected to, are now unacceptable to many. Opportunities have expanded for all groups. We are more empathetic and compassionate now than at any time in history.
 
 Every day, hundreds of thousands of lives are being transformed. Some get electricity for the first time, some discover digital connectivity for the first time. We take our age of wonder for granted, internalise its achievements — but just compare what you can do now with a smartphone, that wasn’t possible a few years ago. Of course, the picture isn’t unclouded — connectivity can create a security threat, our very material gains can double back on us if the climate careens out of control. But the good news is that even here, the world is acting in concert. Science, human ingenuity, policy and collective leadership are doing their best to bring us back from the brink, reduce fossil fuels and carbon, and make growth more sustainable.
 
 If practically every aspect of life is better than ever, why aren’t we happier than ever? It could be a revolution of satisfied expectations — where we measure our well-being not by where we actually are, but where we expect to go, and the circumstances we take for granted. Or perhaps we focus too much on the drama of high politics, forgetting to be grateful for everything good under the surface. But all this progress is not an inevitable force of nature, it is a human accomplishment. We are the ones who’ve improved our world, and we are continuing to do so.
 
 While niggling dissatisfactions can drive us to do better, they must not blind us to the big picture and the true story, which is an undeniable happy one. This is a new year, and a new day. To mangle Maya Angelou’s words a bit, this is a chance to look at each other, and say simply, very simply, with hope — good morning.
 
