Nagpur: Normal life was crippled in the city and adjoining areas on Wednesday during the   called given by several dalit outfits to protest the Bhima-Koregaon incident. Police had to resort to mild lathi-charge at Indora Chowk to disperse protesters.

 One 4-wheeler, two 2-wheelers were set on fire under the jurisdiction of Pachpoali, Jaripatka and Sakkardara police stations on Wednesday by the protesters. 
 
 Stone pelting was reported in Indora. Cops also booked 252 people for illegally assembling under the jurisdiction of Sitabuldi and Wadi police stations along with eight other protesters for vandalism on Tuesday.
 
  In Umred, 70 protesters were detained while 21 were detained in Bela. 
 
 Even as police claimed to have made adequate security arrangements across the city, it was visible only in sensitive areas. Two incidents of stone pelting were reported, with a man getting injured in New Kamptee area. 
 
 About a dozen Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses and eight city buses were damaged. Even private bus operators preferred to keep their fleets off the roads, to prevent damage to their buses.
 
 Jet Airways’ Flight which lands in Nagpur at around 5pm, could not take off from Mumbai. Sources in the airport said the flight could not take off as some of the crew could not make it to the airport in Mumbai due to the disruptions. The Vidarbha Ranjhi team was supposed to come by that flight.
 
 Shops were also vandalized in many areas. In Hingna, agitators blocked a road. Tyres were set afire at many places, including Indora Chowk, Ajni, Shatabdi Chowk, Kamptee Road, and Sadar.
 
 Though most colleges and schools remained open, school buses stayed off the roads. Some schools, like Ira International, had already declared a holiday after school bus drivers expressed reluctance to ferry kids. Many schools were forced shut by protesters in the day.
 
 In North Nagpur, agitators hurled cow dung on CM Devendra Fadnavis and union minister Nitin Gadkari’s posters, and were shouting anti-BJP slogans.
 
 Nagpur police remained mute spectators even as hooligans shut down shops and establishments forcefully, said citizens, who faced inconvenience. The cops not only failed to stop the youths from downing shutters but also could not prevent illegal assembly. Youths carrying flags were seen using abusive language against those not following their diktats.
 
 The police also failed to impose Section 143 to prevent illegal assembly on roads. They didn’t stop or detain youths moving in large groups on bikes and shutting down several establishments. They also failed to anticipate the trouble and take preventive measures. As a result, there was complete collapse of law and order situation, and from tomorrow any fringe group could engage in similar exercises, citizens said.
 
 The shutdown evoked a bigger response in North Nagpur, with a large dalit population as compared to western pockets. A few areas saw a mixed response, with shops carrying on business with shutters partially down. However, shops in city’s commercial areas remain closed after noon. Businesses in Indora, Sitabuldi, Itwari, Shatabdi Nagar, Medical Square, Ajni, Samvidhan Square, Wadi, Dharampeth, Trisharan Square, Tukdoji Putla, Jogi Nagar, Sadar, Jaitala and other areas was badly affected due to the bandh.
 
 Though many autorickshaw unions supported the bandh, the city buses services were plying near normally. Private taxi cabs though remained off the roads.
 
 Even industrial estates remained open, and there was no reduction in crowds on roads and highways. Private and government offices too remained largely unaffected due to the bandh.
 
 The bandh call was given by BRP-BMS headed by Ex-MP Prakash Ambedkar — grandson of Bharat Ratna BR Ambedkar, to express anger over the Monday’s incident in Pune. It elicited support from various dalit parties along with the Congress, Aam Aadmi Party, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Vidyarthi Sangathan and others.
 
 NMC SUFFERS LOSSES
 
 Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) city bus service plied normally till 2pm, after which stone pelting by protesters damaged 10 buses. Three red bus operators too suffered a financial loss of around Rs6 lakh due to the damage. NMC has suffered revenue loss of Rs7.11 lakh due to non-operation of buses, said sources.
 
 ST SUFFERS LOSS
 
 MSRTC suffered a loss of over Rs25 lakh due to suspension of operations. Divisional controller Sudhir Panchbhai said, “Of the 717 trips we operate daily to various destinations in the region, only 307 operated on Wednesday.”
 
 “There were reports about at least a dozen ST buses being damaged. We are in touch with police, but they have still not given a go ahead to start operations. Till afternoon, some buses to Eastern Vidarbha towns plied as usual. But those coming to the city from other depots did not reach here,” he said.
 
 COPS CLAIM IT WAS PEACEFUL
 
 Joint commissioner of police Shivaji Bodke told TOI that the bandh affected most of the city areas. Protesters, mostly youths, came out on the streets to condemn the incident. “There were no reports of any big incident. However, in some areas like Dighori and MIDC Hingna, incidents of burning tyres were reported along with damage to two buses. The police managed to control the agitators. About 2,000 cameras were operational in the city. Citizens suffered inconvenience due to traffic diversions,” he said.
 
 
