NOIDA: Seven  , including a   official, an income tax commissioner posted in Faridabad, ADM (city) Agra, a circle officer in Mathura, GM (projects) YEIDA and a few police officers are staying in flats in the residential complex meant for the employees of the district and child hospitals.

 Many of these officers, who were once posted in Noida, are yet to vacate the flats allotted to them by the Noida Authority. It had transferred the power to vacate them to the management of the   and Post-Graduate Teaching Institute (SSPHPGTI) last year.
 
 There are six residential towers in the complex for doctors and staff of the  , constructed in 2015. However, when the SSPHPGTI was constructed, their staff too was given accommodation in the complex by Noida Authority. SSPHPGTI director A K Bhatt told TOI that in 2017, Noida Authority transferred the power to allot and vacate the flats to them. “Many outsiders are staying in these flats in towers 4, 5 and 7. We have raised the issue in the general body meeting multiple times and have also issued vacation orders but the occupants are not ready to vacate,” he said.
 
 In tower number 4, there are four “outsiders” including income tax commissioner (Faridabad) Sanjeev Kumar, ADM (city) Agra, KP Singh, SP Vijay Dhull and GM (projects) in Yamuna Authority, Devendra Baliyan.
 
 In tower 5, the outsiders are Om Prakash, assistant project engineer in Noida Authority, Ruchi Singh, gynecologist posted at   and circle officer, Sadar (Mathura), Rakesh Kumar. Employees of SSPHPGTI who are protesting outside the institute for the past five days claim that in tower 7, there are many district hospital employees who have been allotted two flats each.
 
 According to the institute director, as many as 25 people occupy 53 flats in the tower. “Our colleagues are not getting flats but many district hospital employees have been allotted two flats each. Isn’t this injustice?,” asked a staff nurse.
 
 The issue has been raised several times in the general body meeting of the child hospital management which includes the CEO, Noida Authority after which an order to vacate the flats was issued. However, the occupants have not paid heed to any written or verbal orders.
 
 Alok Tandon, CEO, Noida Authority told TOI that he is unaware of the issue. “It is wrong to stay in such a flat when you are posted elsewhere. We will take action,” he said. ADM (city), Agra, K P Singh, said he would vacate the flat soon. IT commissioner (Faridabad) Sanjeev Kumar claimed that since Faridabad is part of NCR, he can be allotted the flat under the NCR Housing Policy by the state government.
 
 Noida Authority APE Om Prakash Rai told TOI that he was a Noida Authority employee and it was the Authority to decide on the policy.
 
 Rakesh Kumar, circle officer (Sadar) Mathura, said he has not received any order for vacation. “I have been transferred only five months back. There are many doctors who own flats there but their immediate families are not staying there,” he said.
 
 SP (city) Kanpur Gaurav Grover whose family is staying in the flat allotted to SP Vijay Dhull told TOI that he has not been asked to vacate the flat recently and will do so so as soon as ordered.
 
 GM (projects) YEIDA said that the flat allotted to him has been sanctioned by the SSPHPGTI director recently which the latter termed as temporary arrangement till he gets another one.
 
 
