AMRITSAR: Within six days of spending a night and dining in a Dalit house in Mudhal village of the district, Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs   returned to the same village on Thursday to fulfill the promises he had made to the villagers during his first visit.

 Under the BJP’s Dalit outreach programme, Puri had visited Mudhal on April 26. He had announced a slew of projects for the majority downtrodden people of this Dalit-dominated village. On Thursday, he distributed 123 gas connections, got the Corporate Social Responsibility ( ) funds for constructing a 4-km stretch of pucca road in the village and to provide solar electricity connections.
 
 While Puri’s multiple visits to Amritsar since taking charge as minister in September 2017, has triggered various speculations among the BJP circles, he refused a response to a question in this regard, saying he was just doing the party’s bidding like a foot soldier.
 
 Talking to TOI about his trips to the Holy city, Puri said, “It is a pure coincidence. After getting elected, turbaned or non-turbaned people wish to pay obeisance at the Golden Temple. In Trudeau’s case, Punjab chief minister was unhappy, the Canadian government was flirting with hardliners…It appeared that Trudeau was coming here but the Congress was ignoring him. I got a call at 11.30 pm and I was sent the next day. For the national fast programme, I had to go somewhere. As for Mudhal, party decides where you go and where you don’t go.”
 
 When asked if the BJP needed a known Sikh face in Punjab to make a comeback and if was sent to contest Lok Sabha election from Punjab, he said, “It is entirely the prerogative of the Prime Minister and the BJP president to decide how they want to use their people in the run up to 2019, and many of us will be asked for their political roles and I think that is a great privilege”.
 
 Answering a question in reference to his party’s alliance with the SAD, Puri said, “It takes two to tango. But the alliance has to work for both partners and we have always respected our alliance”.
 
 He said according to the Union government scheme 50,000 gas connections had already been allotted in Punjab and he had distributed 123 connections in and around Mudhal village. He said he had identified the sources for the CSR funds and the 4-km road would be constructed within two months and there would be enough solar electricity connections. “However, I am concerned about the open grain market and few other things which cry for development,” he added.
 
 
