JAIPUR: Rajasthan Public Service Commission ( ) has amended the curriculum for RAS 2018 exam by adding a new unit ‘Niti Shastra’ to the General knowledge and general studies paper. The unit includes management lessons from Bhagavad Gita and those from Mahatma Gandhi’s life.

 
 
 The curriculum also includes life sketch of national icons, social reformers and administrative officers.
 
 A sub unit titled ‘Role of Bhagavad Gita in management and administration’ is added in the revised syllabus of RAS 2018 question paper II General Knowledge and General Studies. The paper has total of three units. 
 
 Questions from this sub unit is expected to come on management and administrative lessons drawn from the 18 chapters dealing with the epic conversation of Lord Krishna with Arjun before the Kurukshetra battle. The aspirants have to read the book in detail to answer questions related to the subject.
 
 “The idea is to exposed students on the relevance of the administrative and management teachings from the book. An aspirant with a fair know how of the all chapters will score 100% marks. The teachings will help them in taking decisions as an administrative officer,” said a junior administrative officer at RPSC. TOI called to RPSC chairperson R S Garg and Deepti Sharma for their reaction but got no response. TOI has a copy of revised curriculum.
 
 The junior officer further says that RPSE has taken a cue from the change in syllabus of   which has added management techniques from Bhagavad Gita, Ramayana and Arthashastra in its commerce and management colleges. 
 
 “The central committee of RPSC has considered that most of the higher education institutes are adding the management lessons from the religious books is making the subject familiar to students. Secondly, it is very important for the future administrators to know the ancient wisdom on administration which the world is embracing," said an officer. 
 
 The officers are tight lipped on the names of Indian icons, social reformers and administrators. Sources said that Indian icons may include some religious figures. Other two aspects which has been added is emotional intelligence and stress management. 
 
 
