THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government’s dream project LIFE housing mission might soon lose the backing of the finance department as the ambitious scheme has piled on the biggest ever liability for a housing project in the state so far. While there could be partial relief for the present year as cabinet has approved Rs 4,000 crore, the finance department and LIFE housing mission are completely in the dark regarding funding for the next fiscals.

 
 Right from the start, the finance department has been advising the government to tread with caution in its philanthropic housing scheme, but in vain. When the government decided to include nearly 70,000 incomplete houses which had been planned under previous housing projects in LIFE mission, it was suggested that a technical inspection to assess the exact cost required to complete such houses shall be done since there could be chances of instability in the existing structure, according to minutes of a meeting held in July 2017.
 
 In another meeting attended by heads of finance department in January 2018, it was cited that the mission will have to go for cheaper lenders like   or   towards the second quarter of 2018-19 to seek additional funding for 2019-21. It was also decided to prioritize 1.5 lakh beneficiaries (75% under   and 75% under LIFE) who have land for the first three quarters of 2018-19 and thereafter re-assess based on actual financial progress made till the third quarter and based on the re-assessment, financial and physical targets for 2019-21may be recalibrated, the meeting noted.
 
 “The advantage of this decision was that with PMAY Centre share could be received and cost for purchase of land could be avoided. It also offered the possibility of credit-linked subsidy wherein beneficiary could put in a matching share unlike what LIFE mission offers where everything has to be borne by the state government,” an official said.
 
 The meeting had also discussed the option of construction of flats and decided to restrict flats to urban local bodies where land is at short supply and to examine the feasibility of cost reduction using feasible pre-fabrication technology.
 
 With apartment complexes being planned for 3.7 lakh landless, homeless beneficiaries, LIFE mission was supposed to find 3,000 acres while the land which has been identified till date has not even crossed 200 acres, the officials said. The plan to engage construction agencies through tenders also backfired. Soaring land prices and labour rates posed another problem. “In many urban areas, the land price starts at Rs 2lakh per cent. The labour rate in   is 25-40% more than that in other states. It is impossible to restrict the price of a dwelling unit at Rs 10 lakh given these conditions. The government insists that the single bid amount of Rs 11.11 lakh quoted for Perinthalmanna project shall be followed by other agencies as well which again is improbable,” officials associated with the project said.
 
 Former urban affairs minister   said that the decision of   government to deduct development fund from local bodies to pay back the loan amount of Rs 4,000 crore would cripple the LSGs.
 
