NASHIK: A day long protest by traders at   ( ) on Tuesday, after one of their colleagues falsely claimed that he was robbed of Rs 9 lakh, turned out to be a lost cause. 

 The Lasalgaon police arrested   for lodging a false complaint about being robbed by an unidentified person. He had faked the robbery in a bid to pay off his debts to avoid being questioned by his family. Police also arrested two his accomplices. 
 
 The trader had claimed that the robbery took place in Pachore,   taluka, about 65km from here had sent shock waves in Lasalgaon and Vinchur, prompting traders to observe a bandh. They also met senior officials of the Nashik rural police to discuss the security issue of traders. 
 
 In his complaint, Sanap stated that after withdrawing Rs 9 lakh from a private bank in Vinchur on Monday, he was on his way home when one of the car's tyres deflated. While checking on the tyre, he spotted a person on a bike trying to open one of the car's doors. When he resisted his attempt, the robber threw chilli powder on his face and decamped with the cash. 
 
 However, during the course of investigation, police called Sanap's bluff. "On reaching the incident spot, it was noticed that the statements of the complainant and what was seen in the footage of the close circuit television camera (CCTV) of the concerned bank were not matching. We suspected that Sanap was cooking up a story and started questioning him. He finally confessed that the robbery drama was planned by him and two of his relatives," said superintendent of police Sanjay Darade of Nashik rural police. 
 
 Sanap wanted to repay the loans he had taken from other traders and a private bank. On Monday, he encashed a cheque for Rs 9 lakh and took along two of his relatives,   of Nimgaon in Sinnar and Ramesh Sanap of Pachore in Niphad taluka to stage the drama.
 
 Sanap told Abhijeet and Ramesh to arrive at the spot fixed by them. According to the plan, Abhijeet would throw chilli powder and escape the scene with the cash bag while Ramesh would reach the spot after the incident and take him to hospital. 
 
 Since Sanap also owed Rs 2 lakh to Abhijeet, he had included the latter in the plan to pay his money back. 
 
 Police inspector   of Lasalgaon police station said that they have recovered Rs 8 lakh so far and the remaining amount would be traced soon. 
 
 
