Trichy: DMK working president continued his tirade against the Tamil Nadu government and demanded the resignation of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on the Cauvery issue.   was speaking during the fourth day of his Cauvery rescue padyatra in Tiruvarur on Tuesday. 

 Resuming his walk from Sannathi Street in Tiruvarur on Tuesday morning, Stalin, CPI state secretary R Mutharasan and others reached Devarkandanalloor on Tuesday afternoon where he addressed a gathering.
 
 Stalin repeatedly faulted EPS for failing to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Cauvery row. “Going by Union minister Pon Radhakrishnan’s statement, Tamil Nadu government has not sought any appointment to meet the PM. Neither chief minister nor deputy chief minister have denied this. It is a shameless government and it should not continue. The CM should resign,” said Stalin.
 
 Recalling the allegations of cash for vote against the ruling party in RK Nagar, Stalin said that they gave up the rights of Cauvery due to fear over cases from the income tax department. During his journey, Stalin rode a bullock cart from Kuzhikarai to Devarkandanallur and ended his yatra for Tuesday in Thiruthuraipoondi.
 
 The second batch of the Cauvery rescue padayatra that started from Ariyalur on Monday night resumed its journey from Keezhapazhoor in Ariyalur on Tuesday morning. VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan, DMK A Rasa and TR Balu were among the several participants. Both the teams will meet in Cuddalore on April 12 when the yatra ends.
 
 Thirumavalavan expressed anguish over the lack of leadership in the AIADMK. “The statement by an AIADMK minister to show green flag to Prime Minister Narendra Modi will bring disgrace to their party and will be a historic mistake. It is painful that Jayalalithaa is no more and there is no influential leader to guide the party,” Thirumavalavan told reporters before proceeding with the yatra. His comments came after Tamil Nadu dairy minister had said that if the opposition parties showed black flag to PM, their party will show green flags to him.
 
 Thirumavalavan also condemned the conduct of IPL matches in Chennai and said that his party would protest against the IPL. 
 
 
