BENGALURU: Sites and flats can wait. The Bangalore Development Authority’s (BDA) new focus seems to be on villas. Encouraged by a massive response to its first villa project in the city, the authority is now set to embark on developing another residential enclave with 300 high-end villas.

 The BDA has invited tender for its new villa project at Dasanapura, off  , 24km from the central business district (CBD). The move follows BDA’s earlier enclave consisting of 452 villas in Alur, also off Tumakuru Road, north Bengaluru, which saw 90% allotment.
 
 
 N G Gowdaiah, engineer officer with the housing projects wing of BDA, told TOI a good response to its villa project in Alur has prompted the BDA to go for more such projects. “We have invited tender for the construction of   at Survey No. 35 of Hunnigere village in Dasanapura hobli on a lumpsum turnkey basis. For the first time, we are going to build high-end 4BHK villas as part of the project,” he added.
  
  
 
 As part of its Alur villa project, the BDA had built 104 3BHK duplex villas (costing Rs 50 lakh each). “In fact, soon after the first notification in late 2016, we received 200 applications for the 104 3BHK villas at Alur. Each villa is spread over 1,800sqft. Demand for villas in the simplex and duplex categories also grew gradually,” Gowdaiah added.
 
 Gowdaiah said the villas at Dasanapura will have more modern amenities based on the feedback from Alur allottees. “Once the tender is finalized, we will be ready to deliver the villas within 12 months. The new villas will cost marginally higher than the ones at Alur; BDA villas cost about 40% lesser than similar private projects,” Gowdaiah added.
 
 Krishna Murthy, assistant executive engineer with BDA’s housing division, said there could be multiple reasons behind rising demand for BDA villas.
 
 “Those who can afford to pay Rs 50 lakh or more for properties are looking for independent housing and want houses where they can get their own space. However, they can’t afford the same with villas offered by private developers. Also, we are developing these projects close to highways like Tumakuru Road and NICE Road, which is an added advantage when it comes to connectivity,” Murthy pointed out.
 
