CHANDIGARH: If you think tuition is a must for your ward to score well in board examination, well, then meet this year’s Class X (  examinations)   toppers. For the toppers, staying away from the social media and self-study are the success mantras for their performance.

 Class X Tricity topper Harman Sandhu believed in self-study and managed to top Tricity. In fact, Harman also sets an example for those doctor parents, who push their kids to opt for medical team. Despite being born to parents, who are doctors, Harman wants to become an engineer. She draws her inspiration from her grandfather who, too, was an engineer. Unable to believe that she has topped not just her school, St Xavier’s in Sector 44, but the entire Tricity with 97.6%, she gave the credit of her success to her grandfather, parents and teachers.
 
 Mathematics is her favourite subject, said Harman. “My grandfather helped me with mathematics and this is how I developed an interest in engineering,” said Harman, who stays in Kansal.
 
 Harman used to study for 8 to 10 hours per day. She wears a proud smile on her face when she mentions she did not take tuition. “I did not take the tuition and during my exams, I used to study for 8 to 10 hours per day for three-four months before the examination. I also fully concentrated on self-study,” she said.
 
 Unlike many students of her age who can be found on social networking sites, Harman has not created any online profile till date. “I never felt the need or zeal to do so,” she smiled.
 
 She has already taken admission in the non-medical stream in Class XI in a private school. She dreams to join an IIT but has not decided on her stream yet.
 
 “Our daughter has made us proud. We wish she will continue to achieve more,” said SS Sandhu and Ritu Sandhu — the proud parents of Harman.
 
 Adavya Bhutani of   scored 97.4% to bag the second position in Class X examination. Adavya doesn’t believe in overburdening himself with strict study schedules. According, it never helps in fetching good marks.
 
 Meanwhile, both his parents — Dr Anajali Bhutani and Dr Vikas Bhutani —were expecting him to score well. He has taken admission in IB program in Strawberry Fields High School. He wants to explore a career in artificial intelligence.
 
 Muskan  , 15, a student of Little Flower Convent School, Sector 14, Panchkula, bagged the third position in Tricity in Class X. Daughter of a public prosecutor, Gobinder Singh Lohchab, Muskan scored 97%. “I was excited about the exams. I always focused on what my teachers told me,” she said.
 
 A football lover, Muskan said she remained away from distractions such as Facebook and other social media platforms. She loves painting and loves watching football matches.
 
 Besides watching matches on TV, she has also played football and basketball. She was a swimmer when she was in Classes V and VI. She studied for nearly five to six hours daily and have now opted for the medical stream.
 
 Name | Adavya Bhutani (2nd topper)
 
 School | St Stephen School Chandigarh
 
 Percentage | 97.4%%
 
 Aim | To pursue artificial intelligence
 
 Success mantra | Not to follow a strict study schedule
 
 Role models | Parents
 
 Study hours | Nothing specific
 
 Hobbies | Football and speedcubing
 
 Stress buster | Watching movies and playing football
 
 Name | Muskan Lohchab (3rd topper)
 
 School | Little Flower Convent School, Panchkula
 
 Percentage| 97%
 
 Aim | Doctor
 
 Success mantra| Remain away from social media
 
 Inspiration | Parents
 
 Study Hours | 5-6 hours per day
 
 Hobbies| Painting and loves watching football and basketball
 
 Stress buster | Playing football and basketball
 
 Compiled by Kamini Mehta, Arvind Bishnoi
 
 
