GURUGRAM: Freestyle wrestler and Olympic medallist   is likely to get a 500 sq yard plot in Gurugram. The   chief administrator has asked its Gurgaon office to furnish the details of plots of that size available with the developement authority in the city .

 “In a letter on February 23, the chief administrator of Huda directed the Gurugram administrator to send a list of vacant plots measuring 500 sq yards at the earliest, so that further action in the matter could be taken accordingly,” a senior Huda official said.
 
 It’s not clear whether the Olympic medallist would get the plot for free or at a subsidised rate. “We have no idea in this regard. We’ll send the list of available plots, and the government will take a call,” the official said, claiming it was the first time they had been asked to identify a plot for allotment to Malik.
 
 The   government had promised to allot a Huda plot to Malik, who got bronze in the Rio Olympics, in a function organised to honour the wrestler in September 2016.
 
 The Opposition parties have accused the   government of not having fulfilled the promise made to Malik. Haryana sports and youth affairs minister Anil Vij had then informed the state assembly that the government had provided all facilities to her. She was also given cheque for Rs 2.5 crore on her return to India after the Olympics, he had said.
 
 Vij had informed the assembly in March 2017 that sportspersons could be allotted plots as per the state policy, but for that the players concerned needed to apply to Huda for the plot. 
 
 The government had claimed at the time that the process for the allotment of a plot to   couldn’t be initiated as she hadn’t applied for it.
 
 According to sources, Malik finally applied for a plot earlier this year. 
 
 The director, Haryana sports and youth affairs, then forwarded an affidavit with a copy of Malik’s Aadhaar card to Huda for the allotment, following which the Huda chief administrator wrote to Gurugram. 
 
 TOI wasn’t able to speak to Sakshi Malik for a comment despite repeated attempts.
 
 
