More than 100km from Nagpur, in Baba Amte’s Anandwan, a motley bunch of mavericks from the field of education met last weekend. The group that calls itself the ‘Indian Multi-universities Alliance’ had a clear agenda: ruminate on ways to challenge the country’s formal education system entrenched since the days of the Raj. “The idea was to collaborate and build a network of people who are creating alternative models,” says Manish Jain, co-founder of Udaipur-based Swaraj University where programmes are designed by the learners themselves.

 
 
 Two years ago, Dilip Jain took a sabbatical from his corporate job and joined hands with well-known education reformist   to establish HIAL ( ) in Ladakh, which focuses on tackling issues faced by mountain people. “More than 70% of our students are mountain people. Our approach is very hands-on. For dealing with water scarcity, they are introduced to the unique innovation of ice stupas wherein wastewater during winters is stored in the form of huge ice cones. The cones start melting in spring and thus water can be used to fight scarcity,” explains Jain.
 
 Through a crowd-funding campaign, he has managed to raise Rs 6 crore for HIAL, which also promotes eco-tourism and ecologically sustainable houses. “We are not giving any degrees or diplomas as we believe in learning by experience,” says Jain.
 
 
 
 In Puducherry, Anita Pathak shares the same belief. After her husband’s death, Anita did not want her son to “lose another parent to work demands” and decided to shift to  , where she became the founder director of Anveshan — an experiential learning and unlearning centre.
 
 Having grown up in the foothills of Himalayas, Pathak has always had a close connect with water and was troubled by its commercialisation and pollution. As a result, most of the programmes at her centre are river journeys where young explorers delve into ecological, social, economic, cultural and historical aspects of rivers like Ganga, Yamuna and Cauvery.
 
 From studying the architecture of temples along the river or the herbal plants on its banks, to analysing the problems of communities living around it or the water pollution, a student can choose his/ her calling. “During Ganga yatra, a girl was only clicking black and white portraits of people travelling near the river. Students are free to follow their passion, we just give them a framework and introduce them to experts during the journey,” says Pathak.
 
 At the end of a ‘yatra’ whose duration depends on the length of the river, students prepare a project report for community presentation. The centre’s unconventional programmes are now finding a place in school curriculums. “We have convinced a Noida and a Chennaibased school to incorporate such journeys in their curriculum. We have designed special modules for school students,” says Pathak.
 
 
 
 Bhubaneswar’s Rishin and   are among the few parents who are letting their daughters, ages four and eight, be ‘unschooled’. In fact, the kids are not even home-schooled, and are ‘learning’ and ‘unlearning’ in their own creative ways. “The elder one has picked up reading and is already ahead of kids her age. Like in the first few years, we are inherently designed to learn crawling, standing up, walking and talking on our own, we learn other things the same way,” says Rishin.
 
 Parents who choose to keep their kids away from mainstream schools have challenges of their own. “We live in a country where not sending a child to a conventional school is violating child rights,” says Rishin.
 
  
  
 
 
 Meanwhile, in Goa’s Parra village, environmentalist Claude Alvares is “motivating kids to get out of schools”. Stating that the Right to Education is being wrongly understood, Alvares says that exercising the right should be left to the parents. “If a parent does not want his child to attend a formal school, the government should not interfere. It is not about degrees anymore,” he says.
 
 Claude substantiates his claim: “Leading global companies like Penguin, and Ernst and Young have announced that a degree is no longer a requirement for job applicants.”
 
 According to Deepak Menaria, founder of Nagpur-based Lemon Ideas which organised the meet in Anandwan, diploma is a disease. “Companies are beginning to understand it now, and the government should too. Those who are frustrated with mainstream education need an alternative and the government should let alternatives exist without bringing them under its framework,” he says.
 
