THRISSUR: The Guruvayur Devaswom managing committee on Tuesday decided to put on hold the decision to permit non-Hindus to have the 'prasada oottu' (temple feast) at the ' ' (feast hall) of the  . 

 In what was hailed as a landmark decision, a week ago, the devaswom had decided to permit non-Hindus to enter the dining hall and have the feast. 
 
 Devaswom chairman   said the temple 'thanthri' (head priest)   had written a letter to the devaswom managing committee demanding a review of the earlier decision. "We didn't want to hurt the sentiments of the devotees of the temple, and decided to put on hold the earlier decision to change the customs of the 'prasada oottu'," he said.
 
 The proposed changes in the customs of the 'prasada oottu', will now be part of the subject of the ' ' (astrological examination to know the divine will) to be conducted at the temple soon, the chairman said. Replying to questions, he said the 'thanthri' did not attend the managing committee meeting held on Tuesday, though he was informed that his suggestions would be discussed.
 
 The earlier decision to permit non-Hindus to have the 'prasada oottu' was taken by the managing committee in the absence of the Thanthri, though he too was a member of the committee. The managing committee was of the view that since the 'oottupura' was located outside the temple, there was nothing wrong in permitting non-Hindus in the dining hall.
 
 However, the 'thanthri' had pointed out that the Oottupura was earlier located inside the temple and that practices, including denying entry to non-Hindus, were continued even after it was shifted to the new location outside the temple. The devaswom had also decided to ease restrictions on dress code and allow people wearing pants and shirts to take part in the 'prasada oottu'. It also has been revoked. Now, people will be permitted inside the Oottupura only if they wear 'dhoties'.
 
 The devaswom chairman said the thanthri of the temple, Chennas Narayanan Namboothirippad, had written a letter to the devaswom managing committee demanding a review of the earlier decision.
 
