GURUGRAM: After reports of cutting and burning of trees and construction of walls came in from different parts of   in the Aravalis on Friday, the district   swung into action and razed the illegal structures.

 The walls were erected in Raisina’s F block and tree cutting was reported from D block. “We received reports of construction of two walls and tree burning. We sent a team to the spot and they razed down the illegal structures. But we could not find any illegal felling of trees. Only dry trees which had fallen to the ground were found to have been burnt,” said Deepak Nanda, district forest officer, Gurugram.
 
 Chetan Agarwal, an environment analyst, said, “The area falls under the   notification. Any kind of construction or tree felling in the area is an offence. But local property dealers and contractors are misleading people by pointing to existing constructions and saying everything can be managed here. The forest department took the right step.”
 
 Rampant tree cutting has been taking place in the Aravalis for the past six months. Under sections 3(1) and 3(2)(v) of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and Section 5(3)(d) of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986, cutting of trees and construction is prohibited in the areas covered by the Aravali notification.
 
 On May 24, forest minister Rao Narbir Singh launched two drones for monitoring wildlife, mapping forests and spotting and preventing non-forest activities in the area. The forest department picked four villages — Raisina, Sakatpur, Gairatpur Bas and Roj Ka Gujjar — for drone mapping and encroachment checks. The drones were introduced after green activists raised concerns over rising environmental violations in the Aravalis. In the past six months, nine cases of tree felling and illegal construction have been reported in the Aravalis, including three in Raisina.
 
 Last month, following a petition seeking directions to ban construction in the Aravalis, the Punjab and Haryana high court sent notices to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and the Haryana government for violating the provisions of the Aravali notification as well as several Supreme Court orders.
 
 
