JAISALMER: A dispute is going on for long between the   and the Jagdamba Seva Samiti of Shakti Peeth Bhadaria over the ownership of around 1.10 lakh bigha of land in Pokhran field firing range in Jaisalmer district. The Samiti alleged that the Army illegally entered into its pasture land last Saturday night (April 28-29) with five tanks and broke the fences in which cows are kept. As a result many cows and bulls strayed out.

 The Samiti has lodged a complaint with the Lathi police station but the police are yet to register the case. Dispute over the land between the Army and the Samiti is under consideration in a court. In December last year too, the Samiti alleged that the Army broke 35 to 40 patis (stone slabs) and that time too a complaint was lodged at the Lathi police station.
 
 TOI contacted the Army authorities several times for a response but got no reply.
 
 District collector K C Meena confirmed the April 28-29 incident and said prima facie it seems the Army broke the fence where cows were kept. Meena added an administration team, including SDM Pokhran and local tehsilar, were sent to the spot. “After getting the report, further action will be taken. The case is pending before the high court, so the administration cannot interfere much,” Meena said. 
 
 The district collector said that as per revenue records the disputed land in is in the name of Jagdamba Seva Samiti.
 
 District SP, Gaurav Yadav said that the Samiti has given a report about the cow shelters being demolished by Army using its tanks. “The investigation is on. As the case is against a government agency, the case will be registered after the investigation report,” Yadav said.
 
 The Pokhran field firing range is spread around 100 km area, which is Asia’s biggest firing range in which Bhadaria situated Jagdamba Seva Samiti claims that it cares for 40,000 cattle on its land spread over 1.10 lakh bighas.
 
 In 2012, the Army filed a writ petition before the   high court disputing the land’s ownership. A large number of villagers held a meeting and requested the district administration and police to take action. The locals said if no action is taken by May 6, they will launch an agitation over the matter.
 
 
