KOLKATA: The Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) has agreed to the Kolkata Police's proposal to instal escalators at its overhead Metro stations coming up on the   route so that passengers can use the facility to reach the platforms and also to cross EM Bypass without having to step onto the busy road. As they want to ensure that no one-Metro passengers or pedestrians-has to walk across Bypass, the police have proposed that all pedestrians be allowed to use the overhead Metro stations as cross-over points and that subways be built at regular intervals between the stations. 

 A joint team of the traffic police and RVNL officials on Wednesday visited the under-construction Satyajit Ray Metro station near Peerless Hospital to discuss measures to ensure safety for Metro passengers and pedestrians alike. In the original plan, the stations open up on Bypass, exposing Metro passengers to the risk of accidents.
 
 "The whole idea is to achieve two goals: one, that passengers can use the escalators to access the elevated platforms without having to step onto Bypass and non-Metro pedestrians can use the same facility as crossover points as well. While Metro has agreed to our proposal of escalators for passengers, we hope they will accept the plan for pedestrians as well," said a top IPS officer.
 
 Sources said the   model was being used as an example. "To a certain extent, our   station is used by pedestrians to cross over from the New Market-SN Banerjee Road side to Esplanade bus stand near   and vice-versa. We have informed civic agencies that we will need three subways, to come up between two Metro stations, so that pedestrians can use it to cross Bypass. In the long run, we do not want anyone to walk across Bypass other than from designated points," an officer said.
 
 An official said the exact locations of the subways would be decided after talks with civic agencies. "Two stations are usually 2km apart. These subways must be planned in such a way that they can cater to the needs of locals," said an officer, saying markets, shops and schools on a certain stretch will determine where these subways must come up. 
 
 Sources said RVNL has accepted most of the Kolkata Police suggestions. RVNL officials also explained to the police some of the security measures they have incorporated in their station design to make use of the facilities easier.
 
 The Kolkata traffic police have been concerned about the safety of pedestrians ever since   researchers Amit Ghosh and Suman Paul concluded that pedestrians formed the largest victim group of fatalities and injuries. EM Bypass is one of the most accident-prone stretches in Kolkata. "Pedestrians are at danger even at zebra crossings, particularly from motorists. The increasing vulnerability of pedestrians to road traffic accidents is largely due to the conflicts between pedestrian and vehicles, excess speed, careless driving and poor road visibility. These accidents can be minimized to a great extent by installing good signal system, preventing u-turns, eliminating irregular stopping of auto-rickshaws and installing road dividers and building pavemnets," the researchers had said.
 
 
  
 
 
