FARIDABAD: After having borne terrible exploitation and cruelty and finally escaped from the clutches of vile men, a 15-year-old has fortunately caught the attention of the authorities. She is currently convalescing in BK Hospital in Old Faridabad area while the cops are pursuing the men who put her through a traumatic two years.

 The teenager was brought to Delhi from Godda district in   two years ago by a man named Surender. She told TOI that her prolonged nightmare started the day she lost her parents in a road accident. “Since there was no one to care of me and my brothers, my grandmother shifted to our house,” she sobbed. “She treated us badly and finally sold me to Surender for Rs 4,000.” 
 
 The girl was hopeful of a better life in Delhi, but she alleged she was continually subjected to sexual assault by Surender, who has evaded police arrest since Sunday, the day she revealed her tale to the cops. “He thrashed me and raped me the moment we stepped into his house. However, when he wanted me hired by a couple in Delhi, he did not beat me for some days so I would not appear bruised and battered.”
 
 The time she spent as a maid at the couple’s house was the only happy time she has had in the past two years. But that happiness was short lived. “Surender got his friend,  , to employ me when my contract at the Delhi house ended,” the survivor said. 
 
 Mishra took her home to   in Faridabad and, the girl claimed, the moment they entered his house, he took away the Rs 30,000 she had earned at the Delhi house. He then raped her in the kitchen even as his wife and two children stood outside. This became a routine. Convulsed in tears, the survivor mumbled, “Mishra was ten times worse than Surender. He always threatened me with a red kitchen knife, and gagged me if I resisted or tried to scream. He tied my legs and burnt them with cigarettes if I tried to free myself.”
 
 For days at stretch, she was confined to the kitchen at Mishra’s house. The only time she caught a glimpse of Mishra’s children was when she used the washroom. Frail and traumatised, she finally made a bid for freedom on Sunday. Two youths found her, eyes swollen, clothes tattered and body bleeding and covered with polythene bags. She managed to communicate to them her predicament through sign language. 
 
 The youngsters took her to the police station where a case was registered under the Indian Penal Code IPC, Juvenile Justice Act and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Bhupinder Singh, DCP (Central), Faridabad, said, “A special team has been formed to track the accused and their families. Our team is catching up to them. We will also verify if the girl’s grandmother had a role to play in her misery.” 
 
 Rishi Kant, member of  , said the rights NGO was in touch with the Jharkhand government to trace the girl’s family. “We have requested the Haryana government to upgrade the FIR and invoke the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act because the survivor is a tribal girl,” Kant added. 
 
 Bal Krishan Goel, member of the Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, told TOI that his team was keenly following the case. “This incident is one that belongs to the rarest category, but the important thing right now is her medical condition,” he said. 
 
 Police said that Surender ran a placement agency, while Mishra owned a shop on the ground floor of the building where he lived.
 
 
