PUNE:   bicycles were launched as a hassle-free transport option, but they're also catching on as a way for a fun, recreational ride. 

 Late at night or early in the morning, many Punekars - young and old - can be seen riding the eye-catchingly green cycles around Aundh-Baner and Deccan areas, clearly enjoying themselves.
 
 Whether it is young couples trying to spend some time together or a bunch of friends hanging out,   are rapidly becoming the go-to option. 
 
 "I rode the bicycles at night and it was a good experience," said Harsh Agarwal, a resident. "I have seen many taking short rides on these cycles at night just for fun. People take short joyrides with their partners, spending quality time together," he added. 
 
 Agarwal attributes this surge in the cycles' popularity to the lower density of traffic at night. "This makes cycling more fun. Another reason could be that people are be busy through the day and only get time at night to hang out with friends," he surmised.
 
 "I stay in Wanowrie, where the PEDL service has not been launched yet. I heard a lot about these cycles and wanted to give it a shot, so I came down to Deccan one evening where I met a couple of friends. We went cycling around the area. It was a fun experience, spending time with friends in a different way rather than just meeting at a restaurant or cafe," Sakshi Jain said.
 
 Apart from recreational reasons, many are also taking to the bicycles as a form of exercise. 
 
 Kanchan Verma, a Khadki resident, has used the cycles on the Savitribai Phule Pune University campus, and plans to do it again soon. "My society is very close to the University campus and I have seen many people using these cycles through the day. I thought I should give it a try too and went for a ride one evening. I usually walk or hit the gym for exercise, but I think I can ride these cycles on certain days to add variety to my exercise routine," she said.
 
 She said these cycles are especially beneficial to those who don't want to buy their own bicycles. "Cycles nowadays are an expensive affair, and not everyone can invest in one. Secondly, families do not approve of spending so much money as there is always the doubt about whether the cycle will be fully utilized. In such cases, PEDL cycles have come as a boon. People who have a passion for cycling can use these cycles to enjoy a ride at a minimal cost, for exercise or just for fun," Verma added. 
 
 
