CHANDIGARH: The city’s first human library event became an illuminating experience for more than 80 visitors from the Tricity, who got to learn about the stories, struggles, and beliefs of nine human beings who turned the pages of their lives for them.

 From classical dance to veganism, and mountaineering to feminism, the library placed a diverse set of ideas on one shelf.   law student  , who attended three sessions on Sunday, said: “Some people were taking notes while the   were talking. But a big life cannot fit into a small notebook.”
 
 Visitor Aniruddh Nanda found human book and mountaineer cop Daljinder Singh “most inspiring”. Nanda said: “What he has done is unique and it requires a lot of determination. I felt like taking his positive energy home.” Another reader liked learning about vegan fashion (which is fashion without fur, silk, or leather) and Chandigarh’s first bikers’ cafe. The event went on from 1pm to 5.30pm at Lucos Pocio in the Industrial Area Phase I.
 
 The human library is a place where real people are on loan to readers for a chat. It’s a place where difficult questions are expected, appreciated, and answered. These conversations challenge stereotypes and prejudices through dialogue.
 
 ‘You read feminism wrong’
 
 Ishita Uppal ‘Unconventional Storyteller’
 
 The world believes that feminism is about putting the men down, but this human book is out to change that opinion. Ishita Uppal, 21, is second-year law student at Panjab University, but in the world of human books, they call her ‘Unconventional Storyteller’.
 
 Sitting among people as a book from the human library here on Sunday, she talked her readers through her experience of forming volunteer organisation SWAG (Strong Women and Girls) in 2016, which works for the progress of both genders, teaches self-defence to poor girls, and raises money for animal shelters. “I was always a sensitive observer,” Uppal said. “At 12, the-then government of   appointed me a brand ambassador of Haryana to promote girls’ education and campaign against female infanticide. I worked for this twin cause for the next five years.”
 
 ‘Dance like a man, Haryana’
 
 Manish Kumar ‘Prima Ballerina’
 
 ‘Prima Ballerina’ Manish Kumar (27) showed his readers the ugly side of gender norms. His is the tale of a Haryanvi kathak dancer, who is sacred to follow his passion in his home state. “People in Haryana do not understand the idea of a man’s being a classical dancer. They have bullied, harassed, and cursed me over the last four years,” he said.
 
 Manish spoke about confronting fragile masculinity, disrespect, and violence that prevented him from going to rehearsals. He said: “I could not practice with my ghungroos (musical anklets) on. They said I was not man enough to like something stereotypically manly. They made fun of my gestures. I forgive them for their lack of awareness.” Manish has moved to Patiala to pursue his passion.
 
 This vegan advice has a lot of meat
 
 Dr Varun Gupta ‘Realistic Vegan’
 
 Dr Varun Gupta, in his book avatar ‘Realistic Vegan’, spoke about being a flexible vegan as different from an idealistic vegan. “A lot of people these days are ‘kattar (hardcore) vegan,” he says, “and they spoil their family relationships in the pursuit of protecting their belief.” “I am a vegan, too,” he says, “but I don’t tend to forget that people around me are not and I cannot have my way with them. You have to be adjusting and flexible.” The doctor suggested finding alternatives such as rice for buttered naan (Indian bread) at weddings and going for non-milky desserts, if one can help it. For people who find being vegan expensive, he advised using soya beans to produce own milk at home.
 
 Courage loftier than Everest
 
 Daljinder Singh ‘A Journey of a Thousand Miles’
 
 Panjab Police officials Daljinder Singh made scaling Mount Everest his ultimate dream after losing three colleagues in an avalanche on that lofty peak in 2005. When even after 10 years, no one from the department came forward to pick up their flag and finish the expedition, he dared to take the challenge. Speaking has human book ‘Expedition: A journey of a thousand miles’, Daljinder Singh explained that years of training with a singular aim had got him to this destination in May 2017. “The biggest hurdle,” he says, “was raising 25-lakh rupees. A lot of people told me to back down but I was determined to succeed.” After conquering Mt Everest, Daljinder Singh made the world record of being the only policeman who bicycled under water for 150 metres. The Goan feat also got him into the Limca Book of Records and the Asia Book of Records.
 
 
