You can hate her or admire her, but you just can’t ignore her. Judging from the recent online abuse showered upon her after her comments about Kasaba, one would think that having an opinion makes an actress less desirable but our online poll proves otherwise and the   of 2017 is Parvathy. The year has been incredible for the actress; her film Take Off, which she shouldered almost entirely by herself, won applause from the critics as well as the audience, while she made a quiet entry into Bollywood, almost unheard of for a Malayalam actress. The strong stances she took against gender disparity in Malayalam cinema led to many a raised eyebrow, but it did make the entire film industry sit up and take notice of what she was saying. Parvathy speaks to us on desirability, what fashion means to her, and more.

 
 
 Thank you so much, it makes me feel desirable! I don’t know what desirable means really but I sure hope it also means people want to see more of my work.
 
 
 
 I would want to believe so, because most of the time, people say, ‘Stop talking, if you don’t, people will stop liking you’. This is the general perception, especially when you are a woman. But I’ve always maintained that people can dislike or disrespect me for the work I do, but to write me down on the basis of harmless opinions is going too far. I do believe that at the end of the day, work will win, and it is the only obligation I have to the audience and them to me. If we keep that equation pretty clean, we don’t have space for any misunderstanding.
 
 
 
 Acceptance of herself, as a gender and as a person, is, I feel, is the most arousing quality of a woman. The acceptance of her femininity and her masculinity, to acknowledge both and be completely shameless about it. The most beautiful quality of many of the women I look up to is that they are their own emotional beings, intellectual beings and sexual beings. Who know their worth without having to threaten anybody else’s existence. And who genuinely feel happy for another woman rising. We are taught to be jealous, not to feel worthy when someone else gets ahead. Only women who are absolutely confident and who celebrate themselves can truly stand by another woman.
 
 
 
 The same. We just happen to have man and woman categories because we have two species. We have more than two, so probably you should have a transgender category as well. These are all basic human qualities I spoke about, not based on gender. There are differences between men and woman I agree, but those are biological, and what makes you desirable to others is your ethics, your ability to be fun to be around, to forgive, to be calm. 
 
 
 
 Comfort. I keep hearing people who say, ‘It’s not about style, it’s about comfort’. And then they wear the most uncomfortable looking stuff that cannot be comfortable, no matter how fit you are! I wear my mom’s saris to events sometimes. And I wear the same dress twice or thrice. 
 But when you are making a statement, you can’t always be comfortable, I agree. Lady Gaga’s meat dress couldn’t have been comfortable. So I would like to make a demarcation, when I want to look stylish and make a statement, I will have to put up with a certain amount of discomfort. I hate heels, for example. But I do wear them at times.
 I don’t have a collection of jewellery or bags or anything. I used to have a fetish for rings, but that was a tiny little phase. These days I barely accessorise, I don’t like wearing heavy jewellery. I choose designers who make you feel that you should be the one wearing a dress and not the other way round.
 
 
 
 As much as it should to provide for the work you are doing. I am absolutely ungroomed when I am not working. I like to leave myself wild and free. I do take care of my skin because I know that my body is my investment. I take care of my body so that I can work well. But apart from that, I don’t mind unmanicured hands or unshaven legs or body parts. I leave it as nature meant it to be.
 
 
 
 No, I love food. As we are speaking, I’m having biryani. I’m a person first, and deserve my food. I make sure I’m healthy, though, but that’s about it.
 
 
 
 Did you mean they might not be open to different body shapes? I guess I’m unwelcoming that way, but I’m not trying to fit in anywhere. I’m in no hurry to reach anywhere.
 
 
 
 Anjali's (Anjali Menon) movie just got done and that it was another unforgettable experience. Working with her is always a dream come true. I thoroughly enjoyed being part of her team. 
 My Story by Roshni Dinaker has one more schedule to go before it releases in March. Shankar Ramakrishnan has written a wonderful part for me and it's a departure from the kind of movies I've done so far.
 
 
 
 Every year has been about a new phase for me. It just happens to be a bit more public now. In fact every three months I end up not relating to who I was earlier. Changes are pretty fast for me and I really enjoy that process. It’s not the controversies but day-to-day life which changes me. So hope many, many, many more phases are coming up!
 
