NAGPUR: Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) city transport committee chairman Bunty Kukde has alleged irregularities in procurement of 1,300 ticketing machines for city buses by city transport department. Kukde directed the department not to release payment to US-based private company until further orders.

 Kukde told TOI, the department has been asked to reply in two days. “It is mandatory for the department to seek administrative approval from city transport committee and then standing committee for works above Rs 25 lakh. Tendering for purchase of 1,300 ticketing machines was conducted without any approval. Estimated cost of 1,300 machines is Rs 2.12 crore. Eight hundred machines have already been delivered. They have been handed over to transport manager   (DIMTS),” he said.
 
 Kukde added already 600 ticketing machines were with the department and all of them are functional. “NMC procured these 600 during when previous operator Vansh Nimay Infraprojects (VNIL) was running the bus service. The civic body is in a bad financial state. Need is to spend money judiciously. Department knew committee would not approve the order so took its own decision. There are other reasons behind department’s step,” he said.
 
 Kukde also said it was very unfortunate the department did not even inform the committee about procurement of machines. The department procured them at Rs 16,327 a piece. It sent a letter to accounts department directly requesting release of payment to vendor.
 
 Kukde learnt about the case and wrote to city transport manager   asking him to stop the payment. Kukde has raised eight queries. He asked detailed information about tendering process, companies participating in it, technical validation etc.
 
 Denying any wrongdoing, transport manager Shivaji Jagtap said machines that could accept Common Mobility Card being introduced by   were needed. “Existing machines procured in 2009 could not. Data from new machines will be automatically stored in the office enabling their live monitoring. There are various other advantages too,” he said.
 
 Jagtap added administrative approval for procurement of 10 systems for city buses was taken in request for proposal (RFQ) floated to appoint bus operators. “There was no need for further approval. We also got it verified by accounts department,” he said.
 
 The episode indicates everything is not well between transport committee and department. Differences between chairman and officials are likely to hamper city bus operations. TOI on January 1 had highlighted how 35 conductors had siphoned off ticketing money.
 
 
