The results in the three north-eastern states, virtually stamping out   from the region, are bound to dampen the euphoria generated by the party’s good performance in the   elections and its victories in the recent bypolls in Rajasthan and  . Saturday’s results were on predictable lines. 
 
 Congress drew a blank in Nagaland — where it contested just 18 of the 60 seats — and collapsed in Tripura. In Nagaland and Tripura, where it has held power in the past, Congress’ vote share was next to nothing —2.1% and 1.8%, respectively. 
 
 However, it has emerged the single-largest outfit in   which it ruled for five years but a failure to form the government will neutralise any positive spinoff from the contest. The party had pinned its hopes on winning Meghalaya and was counting on the Left to keep BJP at bay in Tripura. That would have deprived BJP of fresh bragging points. 
 
 It is also the timing of the results that is upsetting for Congress. While smaller north-eastern states traditionally had limited resonance in national politics, BJP will surely use it to rev up the propaganda machine that saffron is on the ascendant. 
 
 Ahead of Karnataka elections, it is a gain that BJP will relish and Congress could have done without. After the Gujarat verdict and the bypoll victories, there was a view emerging in Congress that BJP could still be stopped in the 2019 elections with gains in saffron-ruled states backed by a strong national coalition. 
 
 A step in that direction was made without delay with public appeals from   and   to potential allies. Now, the north-east results have raised the stakes even higher for Congress to win Karnataka. For, the southern state will set the tone for endyear assembly polls in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Mizoram, as well as for the mega 2019 contest. 
 
 While Karnataka Congress, led by an OBC satrap who hails from the hardworking stable of ‘Janata Dal’, is exuding confidence, party headquarters is bound to be wary and will prefer to redouble efforts. 
 
 In the middle of March, Congress delegates from across the country will meet for a three-day ‘AICC plenary session’ in the capital to hear the leadership’s message against the Modi government and to sound the poll bugle. The party will have to spin the political message in a way that the north-east results do not dampen its workers’ spirits.
 
