AMRITSAR: Ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, leaders and volunteers of AAP in Punjab have favoured revoking the suspension of its MPs to strengthen the party and once again repeat its success of the 2014 polls.

 A senior leader said on Saturday that a group of AAP leaders and volunteers had in recent past held a meeting to contemplate over party’s political future in Punjab and its preparation for the Lok Sabha polls. “Majority of AAP leaders and volunteers were of the view that party’s central leadership should revoke its decision of suspension of MPs Harinder Singh Khalsa of Fatehgarh Sahib and Dr Dharamvira Gandhi of Patiala and give them important role to play in the General Election,” said the leader.
 
 Party leaders stated this even as Dr Gandhi had launched his political front Punjab Manch with a view to making it a political party ahead of the Lok Sabha elections while Khalsa was politically silent. During the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, AAP candidates Khalsa, Dr Gandhi, Sadhu Singh and Bhagwant Mann had won the elections from Fatehgarh Sahib, Faridkot, Patiala and  , respectively. In August 2015, AAP’s political affairs committee had suspended Dr Gandhi and Khalsa for alleged anti-party activities.
 
 Punjab AAP disciplinary committee chairperson Dr   opined that bringing Dr Gandhi and Khalsa into the party fold ahead of the Lok Sabha elections would instil a new spirit among the cadre since both were winning candidates. Political analyst and former AAP leader Manjit Singh said, “In AAP’s own interest the suspension of Dr Gandhi and Khalsa should be revoked.” He said it was too late for the party to persuade the suspended MPs and how they would react to it.
 
 However, Singh opined that the party might not be a major player in the ensuing Lok Sabha elections, pleading that the 2019 electoral battle would ’t be triangular in Punjab but between SAD and  . Spokesperson of AAP in   Gurbhej Singh said the party aimed at not only retaining all four seats but also secure victory in other constituencies. He said getting back Dr Gandhi and Khalsa would only strengthen the party in Punjab.
 
 He said party’s Majha unit had formed a strategy keeping in view the 2019 elections. “We are working right from booth level to connect common people with us in all assembly constituencies of Majha and we have got a positive response since people had seen both Akali and Congress regime in Punjab and their issues were still the same. Party leadership in Punjab is likely to meet after the Shahkot assembly byelection to decide the course of action for the Lok Sabha polls,” said Gurbhej.
 
 
