MUMBAI: The two-man   ( ) of retired Justices Hemant Gokhale and VM Kanade, appointed by the Bombay High Court earlier this month to ensure the implementation of Lodha reforms in the   ( ), has decided to draw up a fresh draft constitution in line with the Supreme Court-accepted recommendations, for the state cricket body.

 
 
 Assisted by its former president Ravi Savant, the constitution committee of the MCA had prepared an amended draft constitution, but the committee took the decision of ignoring it after many members, at a meeting with the CoA at the Wankhede on Wednesday evening, pointed out that the amendments in the new constitution deviated from the said reforms. “Our next step will be to prepare the amended draft constitution. That (the previous constitution) was prepared by the erstwhile committee.
 
 “We’ve to proceed as expeditiously as possible. We’ve been told that we’ve to complete the whole process by June 30,” Gokhale said after the meeting.
 
 Apparently, the man who faced maximum heat at the meeting, attended by 200-odd members at the behest of the CoA, was Savant, with former   Game Development manager Prof Ratnakar Shetty and MCA office-bearers Shripad Halbe and Ravi Mandrekar roundly criticising the constitution prepared by the previous panel.
 
 “Firstly, I can’t understand how did the MCA ask Savant, who himself was disqualified to be a part of the MCA managing committee as per the Lodha reforms, to help out with preparing the new constitution,” fumed a member.
 
 “As per the Lodha reforms, a chargesheeted person can’t be a part of the association’s managing committee, but as per the this constitution, only a convicted persons stands disqualified,” pointed out another member.
 
 “We had convened the meeting to receive the suggestions from members on the Lodha committee recommendations. They’ve given their suggestions. We’ve heard them, and we’ll consider them. It’s a democratic system.
 
 “We’ve to hear then. We can’t do anything which is contrary to the Lodha reforms. We’ll consider the suggestions which are worth consideration,” Gokhale said after the meeting.
 
 “All the suggestions have been recorded. The transcripts will be given to us. We’ll go through it, and see whether it’s in line with the Lodha reforms, because that’s the mandate given to us by the high court, directed by the Supreme Court. The order itself says that we’ve to 1) see the (implementation) of the Lodha Committee reforms; 2) To see that there’s a fair distribution of IPL tickets; 3) To convene the meeting and invite suggestions. Since the meeting was already convened, we postponed it,” said Kanade.
 
 The fact that Lodha reforms had to be mandatorily implemented was made clear to the members at the beginning of the meeting itself. Ahead of the meeting, printed copies of an e-mail from the SC-appointed CoA to various state associations on March 19 on the implementation of Lodha reforms were circulated. The last para of the e-mail said: “The CoA wishes to emphasize that the judgement is binding on all state associations and its implementation has not been stayed. As per the timelines issued by the Lodha Committee, the state associations were required to amend their respective Memorandum of Association/ Articles of Association/Constitution and Bye-Laws by September 30. Those state associations that haven’t still not done so continue to be in breach of the said directions.”
 
 
