I am one of those crazy Parsis who has four grand pianos,” says  , as she fusses over her students at her music academy located in a quaint neighbourhood of Koregaon Park.

 “No, I think I have five grand pianos,” she corrects herself after doing a rough count. “There’s one more at my home, besides I have two upright pianos and 4-5 digital pianos at the academy,” she says.
 
 One of the country’s foremost piano teachers and a promoter of local and national talent,   is certainly crazy about pianos and piano pedagogy (the art of teaching) in particular. Over the past four decades, she has trained countless students many of whom have gone on to win national and international acclaim.
 
 “Most of my students have made me very proud. They have gone on to do bigger things.  , who took piano lessons from me in the Eighties, is a professor of music at Yale. She has an international concert career though I never taught her singing. She sings at Lincoln centre and in the biggest halls all over the world. I remember her as my little Sherry,” Roxana recounts.
 
 “I had a prodigious young talent called Aditya Despande. He had very special God-given ability. He would learn something in half-an-hour what would take an average person to learn in twothree months. He is studying in a school in Houston and is a serious musician. I have had some students who have done extremely well, excelled in the academy and even gone abroad. Recently, we sent three children to Germany and they won an international competition on ensemble playing,” she says.
 
 Her interest in piano pedagogy was kindled while doing her bachelor’s degree in music at the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada. Her teacher at the university, Mary Tickner, inspired her to take up teaching piano.
 
 “I came back to India and taught here for about 7-8 years.” In the meantime, she also worked as an honorary secretary for the  . “I was bringing in teachers and artists but it was more of an impresario’s job, not something to do with teaching,” she says.
 
 Then she immigrated to Canada. “Even when I was teaching in Canada, I always tried to create opportunities for students to perform and learn not just from their own teacher but also from experts in the field. So, I started Vancouver Piano Sessions. We would invite important celebrity teachers or pianists for master classes. They would listen to the students and work with them. They would also hold workshops for teachers,” she says.
 
 In 2001, she returned to Pune to get married. The very next year, she started the  . “It was my dream to have a music school. I started the music school with two students in one little room in my apartment. Now, the academy has around 100 students. We celebrated our 15th anniversary last year,” she says.
 
 Keen to provide a platform to students to exhibit their talent, Roxana started a national level piano festival called Musi-Quest. “It is a one-of-a-kind festival in India and takes place every two years in November. We have had six editions so far. We invite celebrity teachers and pianists from across the globe to work with students at the festival, which includes a competition as well. The 2017 edition had drawn 125 participants,” she says.
 
 A piano teacher for more than four decades, Roxana is particularly unhappy with the “examcentric” musical environment in India.
 
 “There are many teachers, who teach from one exam to the other and students keep paying exam fees for every single grade. That is not my philosophy of music. I do think exams are good in terms of setting a goal but I do not think they are the be-all and end-all of music. Music needs to be taught to communicate. It needs to be taught to express and to bring out one’s musical self and you cannot do that by restricting students to just two or three pieces a year,” she says.
 
 “Our students not only play the piano, they study music appreciation, learn history, harmony and musical repertoire. They go through all kinds of different peripheral subjects. That’s how I learnt when I went to the university in Canada,” she says.
 
 Her youngest student is four years old and the oldest is 65.
 
 “There are specially designed books in landscape mode with lots of pictures and colours for little the ones and within two-three weeks they begin to read music. We also have special courses designed for adults as well. We have lots of IT people and doctors who love to learn music. In fact, they do quite well,” she says.
 
 “There’s much more interest in piano now. On an average, I get around 30 enquiries.”
 
 To update herself about the latest in piano pedagogy, Roxana attends the National Piano Pedagogy Conferences and World Piano Pedagogy Conferences in the US every year. She is also a teaching member of the Music Teachers’ National Association in the US and has attended conventions since 2010. She is the only international member to be nominated on the board of Frances Clark Pedagogy Center, New Jersey. She has also been invited to be on the jury of piano competitions in Italy, the US and in Norway.
 
 Whenever she travels abroad, she makes sure to bring back lots of piano books for her students.
 
 “It’s difficult to come across good books in India and I do not want my students to learn things I learnt 40 years ago,” she says.
 
 
