AURANGABAD: The government and private facilities in the city are grossly unwelcoming to ‘divyangs’, an accessibility audit has revealed.

 The audit was conducted by  , an organisation working for differently-abled children. They surveyed 11 establishments in the city last year and concluded that 36% of the places were non-accessible to people with disabilities, 45% were semi-accessible, while only 18% were accessible in terms of their external environment. 
 
 The survey carried out by students of college of social work at the Dr Babasaheb Marathwada Ambedkar University. They survey was conducted at hospitals, government offices, bus stand, railway station, airport, banks, hotels, etc. 
 
 The students rated these establishments on different counts such as alighting facility, internal route, availability of toilet, waiting room and parking space for the disabled people, the signages, height of chairs and counters.
 
 India is one of the signatories of the   Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which clearly outlines the measures the state should take to ensure access to persons with disabilities on an equal basis with others, to the physical environment, to transportation and to information and communications. 
 
 Vihang project head   said the greatest worry of parents of children with disabilities is that what will happen to their children after them. “The parents have to be everywhere with their children because they cannot tread alone in society and at public places and that is why we push for a ‘sugamya’ (accessible) society,” Shardul said.
 
 Swati Ambekar, parent of a disabled child said right from the road and transport facilities to schools and market spaces the disabled people face challenges. “We cannot bring the child on road with the wheelchair. Inaccessibility begins from potholes on the road, divyang unfriendly buses and schools and goes everywhere you can think of,” she said, adding that, it is because of lack of accessibility that the disabled children, even if admitted in normal schools, cannot continue their education there.
 
 Considering the results of the survey, the Vihang Special School wrote to the establishments which were non-accessible and semi-accessible, appealing to make their facilities divyang-friendly. 
 
 Mayor   said he would call a meeting of all the stakeholders and push for making the city divyang-friendly. He said the equipment needed to make the   office accessible to divyangs has been purchased and the installation will be done in a month’s time.
 
 Ghodele has earlier stated that all the city roads will be improved in five to six months.
 
 
