GHAZIABAD: Former Rajya Sabha MP   was convicted of abetting the suicide of his daughter-in-law Himanshi by a city court on Wednesday. His wife Devenderi and son Sagar were also found guilty of the same offence even though police had slapped dowry death charges on them.

 Additional district judge (I) Shashi Bhushan Pandey also held the former lawmaker’s son guilty under the Arms Act as the licensed revolver allegedly used by 32-year-old Himanshi for committing suicide belonged to him. The court is likely to pronounce the quantum of sentence on Thursday. All of them face a maximum of 10 years in jail.
 
 In fact, Kashyap, Devenderi and Sagar were all arrested by Ghaziabad police and booked for dowry death soon after Himanshi was found dead, with a gunshot wound on her head, inside a washroom of the family’s home in Sanjay Nagar in April 2016. They were sent to jail but granted bail by the Allahabad high court later that year only.
 
 The FIR was lodged against them on the basis of a complaint filed by Himanshi’s family members.
 
 “After the FIR, Ghaziabad police filed a chargesheet against Kashyap, his wife and son for dowry death under Section 304B of the IPC (dowry death). However, the court did not find the charge tenable due to lack of evidence. All three have been pronounced guilty under Section 306 of IPC for abetting the suicide of Himanshi. All other charges invoked in the police chargesheet have been found untenable,” a counsel of Narendra Kashyap told TOI.
 
 In its chargesheet submitted to the court in June 2016, police had framed all three under 304B (dowry death), 498A (cruelty) and 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) of the IPC apart from section 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961.
 
 Himanshi, the daughter of former BSP minister Hiralal Kashyap, was married to Sagar three years ago and the couple have a one-year-old son. Hariom Kashyap, Himanshi’s uncle, in his complaint alleged that Narendra Kashyap’s family members used to torture the girl for not bringing enough dowry. They always insisted that she bring a ‘Fortuner’ SUV from her parents, he claimed.
 
 Narendra Kashyap had been elected to the Rajya Sabha on a BSP ticket, a party which he joined in 1984. After the end of his five-year term, Kashyap joined the BJP just prior to the assembly elections in UP last year. Himanshi’s father, Hiralal Kashyap, also a BSP leader had quit the party too and joined the BJP, along with Narendra Kashyap.
 
 
