PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   on Thursday said the   would be maintained in the state and nobody would be allowed to interfere with their democratic style of functioning.

 
 Talking to a joint delegation of the Federation of University Service Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUSTAB) and the Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar (FUTAB) at the Raj Bhavan,   expressed concern at the recent decision regarding centralized admission of students to degree colleges through the   (BSEB). He agreed with the views of the teachers’ delegation that the BSEB had no power to interfere with degree admissions.
 
 “Necessary directives will be issued to the universities to go ahead with the admission of students to degree courses as per the amended provisions of the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976,” Malik said and added full facts regarding the admission of students were not brought to his notice either by the vice-chancellors (VC) or the officials concerned.
 
 The delegation had earlier pointed out that under the new system envisaged at a recent meeting of the VCs, students seeking admission to degree colleges would have to bear extra financial burden and the academic session might be delayed. “Moreover, it is not feasible for the BSEB to carry the burden of all the examinations and admissions, right from Class X to three-year degree courses. In fact, the board could not adhere to the Supreme Court’s directive to publish the results of the Intermediate exams by May 31,” the delegation said.
 
 The attention of the chancellor was also drawn towards the difficulties being encountered in disbursement of salaries, pension and arrears to the teachers, owing to linking of individual bank accounts with the treasury. A sum of more than Rs 500 crore is lying unutilized in the treasury even as retired as well as serving teachers are clamouring for their salary and pension arrears.
 
 Malik asked the delegation to call on him regularly and bring to his notice the aberrations, if any, caused due to the action of government officials or VCs.
 
 The delegation consisted of teacher leaders Ram Jatan Sinha, Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha, Sanjay Kumar Singh and Dilip Choudhury.
 
 
