MUMBAI: The name of Mumbai’s oldest railway terminus has grown longer — from VT to   to CSMT — but the queues for local train tickets have grown shorter, with the number of tickets sold daily dropping almost 30% over the last five years alone.

 
 The latest figures provided by Central Railway (CR) show that in 2012-13 Chhatrapati   in south Mumbai sold more than 2 lakh tickets per day.
 
  
  
 
 In 2017-18, the number had reduced to 1.44 lakh. Emergence of satellite townships and business hubs in the suburbs has altered Mumbai’s conventional north-south commuting pattern, dispersing offi-cegoers in new directions. Experts said the latest figures confirmed the trend that the south Mumbai business district of Fort, Nariman Point and   is gradually ceding space to other areas like BKC and  , which are outside the island city. 
 
 “We have witnessed this trend of numbers falling at CSMT because offices have shifted out of south Mumbai,” CR chief public rela-tions officer Sunil Udasi said.
 
 The former mill land areas of central Mumbai in the Parel-Elphinstone-Currey Road belt have also become a new hub of employment. 
 
 Redevelopment and large com-mercial housing projects ha-ve paved the way for compa-nies in hospitality, media and finance to expand office space in these areas. “We ha-ve planned a suburban train terminus at Parel so that more originating trains can run from here to take care of overcrowding,” Udasi said.   of Liases Foras, a real estate research firm, said jobs have clearly moved to Parel, Andheri, Malad and Bandra-Kurla Complex.
 
 Another contributory factor in the drop in footfalls at CSMT is that number of vehicles on the roads has more than doubled, from 22 lakh in 2012-13 to 33 lakh in 2017-18. Clearly, new road in-frastructure is helping more people to opt for public or private transport.
 
 Contrast this with the in-crease in the number of origi-nating railway passengers in satellite townships outside the metropolis. In Ulhasna-gar in Thane district, there has been a nearly 110% jump in passengers. In 2012-13, the number of passengers at this station was 66,363 and has now increased to 1.38 lakh. Titwala witnessed a jump of almost 46% and Badlapur of 29% in five years.
 
