BHOPAL: The CBI has issued a clarification of sorts in the supplementary chargesheet in the   teacher recruitment scam to explain why there is no reason for Union minister and former CM Uma Bharti’s name to be on the list.

 Neither of the two ‘kingpins’ of the scam — the then Vyapam chairman Pankaj Trivedi and principal system analyst   — named Bharti as the one who recommended the two candidates against whose names ‘Uma Bhartiji’ was written on a seized Excelsheet, says the agency in the chargesheet filed on Tuesday. Besides, the CBI says, the two candidates —   and wife Shikha Parashar — revealed during interrogation that it was not   but former minister   that they had sought to contact after appearing in Contractual Teachers’ Recruitment Test-2011.
 
 They said they gave their names to his officer on special duty O P Shukla at his residence since the minister was not present then.
 
 The couple hails from Sironj, the hometown of Sharma, CBI pointed out in the chargesheet. TOI had reported on January 10, much before the chargesheet was filed, that CBI was likely to give the clean chit to Uma Bharti.
 
 The FIR in the scam was registered by MP STF, which filed four chargesheets. While going through the hard disk seized from Nitin Mohindra, investigators found that marks of certain candidates were increased to help them qualify.
 
 
 
 
 They crosschecked with OMR answersheets and identified 84 candidates who qualified solely due to ‘grace marks’. Further investigation revealed that the accused officials and middlemen allegedly collected the roll number, form number and other details of candidates who had paid up, and passed the information to Mohindra.
 
 “In the Excelsheet, ‘Uma Bhartiji’ is mentioned against the name of these two persons. The accused Nitin Mohindra and Pankaj Trivedi were interrogated... however neither in the memorandum recorded under Section 27 Indian Evidence Act, nor subsequently they revealed about the said word mentioned in the Excelsheet,” reads CBI’s supplementary chargesheet. It names 39 fresh suspects, taking the number of accused in the case to 96.
 
 Most of the names in the fresh chargesheet are candidates. It also names former minister Laxmikant Sharma, four Vyapam officials and eight middlemen.
 
 It was Uma Bharti, who had reiterated in 2014 that the Vyapam scam was bigger than the fodder scam and pressed for a CBI probe. The same year, the state   charged her with involvement in the scam. She reacted strongly, accusing the opposition of misleading people since its leaders were involved.
 
 The STF made over 1,000 arrests, largely on the basis of names found on Excelsheets retrieved from a hard disk.
 
 A copy of the Excelsheet was submitted in a district court on September 9, 2014, along with the chargesheet in the contractual teachers appointment scam.
 
 The STF named 43 people, including Sharma and  , former OSD to the MP governor, in its FIR (No. 7011) dated December 9, 2013. Bharti was neither named nor questioned by the STF, and the agency issued an official statement that she had nothing to do with the scam. 
 
