CHENNAI: The   ( ) has directed the state government to pay a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to a software engineer whose family was harassed by the city police for one year under the pretext of enquiry based on a complaint by his estranged wife in 2013.

 R   of   was employed at a software firm in Bengaluru and was married to T Barani. The couple had an 18-month-old child. When Seshadri was working in the USA, Barani left the matrimonial home and filed a false complaint with the Ambattur All Women’s Police Station (AWPS) against his family in August 2013, according to Seshadri’s petition. The petition also claimed that then Ambattur AWPS inspector D Selvakumari summoned all his family members for inquiry, including his paralytic father Raghunathan who had to be transported in a van. He said the inspector used filthy language against him and made him stand for over eight hours though he told the official that he was undergoing treatment for a ligament injury in his right leg. The inspector’s actions over the course of one year, the software engineer stated, constrained them from approaching the Madras high court for five times.
 
 The inspector in a counter affidavit refuted the allegations and said on learning that a divorce case was pending in the court, she advised both the couple to seek remedy before the family court. Subsequently, an inquiry was conducted by the assistant commissioner who suggested the same.
 
 The commission bench headed by  , after perusing the documents observed that the inspector’s actions amounts to harassment. Though Seshadri’s paralytic father, Raghunathan was not party to the complaint, he was also summoned by the inspector. “It seems the inspector acted in a high-handed manner and tortured and harassed the family for reasons best known to her,” the judge observed.
 
 Chiding the inspector for not conducting the inquiry in a proper manner, the judge noted that Seshadri not only suffered from loss of reputation but also from mental agony and ruled in favour of the petitioner. Apart from the compensation, the commission also recommended the state to initiate disciplinary action against the Inspector.
 
 
