KOLKATA:   doesn’t figure in the Vishwa Hindu Parishad-sponsored ‘Ram Rajya rath yatra’ roadmap that took off from Ayodhya on Tuesday.

 VHP’s Bengal unit has no plans to join the yatra, even dropping broad hints that the Hindutva brigade isn’t pursuing the strong Hindu line in the east and northeast even though Union finance minister Arun Jaitley only recently said that BJP was eyeing substantial gains in Bengal and Odisha.
 
 “We are busy organizing boimelas (book fairs) in different parts of the state. We don’t have any plan to join the rath yatra,” said   spokesperson Sourish Mukherjee. The apparent disconnect is a marked departure from L K Advani’s rath yatra in 1993 when BJP supporters from different parts of Bengal had sent bricks for construction of the Ram mandir.
 
 Hardline Hindu organisations like Hindu Samhati, however, hold a different view. “We want a Ram mandir in Ayodhya. But we are not into votebank politics over the mandir issue,” said organisation president Tapan Ghosh. Of the six states in the rath route, only Karnataka is going to assembly polls. Others include BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Left-ruled Kerala.
 
 BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said the party doesn’t have any plan to join the  . “We are not organising the rath yatra. We haven’t received any proposal from our fraternal organisation (VHP) to join the yatra,” Basu said.
 
 According to BJP insiders, the party’s Bengal unit has been asked to take up programmes keeping in mind the culture and psyche of Bengal. “You must have seen that the party in Bengal isn’t advocating the strong Hindu line. The reason is that BJP has been gaining mass support by campaigning against minority appeasement by governments. The purpose is to rope in all those who are disillusioned with the present Trinamool government. Unlike in BJP-ruled states, we are an emerging force in Bengal pitted against a party that has a strong presence at the grassroots. Our aim is to increase our support and not just consolidate our support base,” a state BJP leader said.
 
 Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee declined to comment on the issue because he felt that BJP isn’t a force to reckon with in Bengal.
 
 
