NAGPUR: The ownership battle among relatives over   took a queer turn at the Sitabuldi police station on Monday. The relatives, who are fighting each other in civil court, came together to file a complaint against four businessmen, who were contracted to renovate the theatre and operate it on rent for five years.

 Priyanka Maheshkar claims to be the sole owner of the Alankar Talkies, being the sole heir of her late father Ashok and uncle  . In 2016, Priyanka had lodged a complaint against her relatives at Sitabuldi police station, claiming threat to her life over the property dispute. Simultaneously, she had also filed a civil petition in court against her relatives.
 
 The court had in 2017 granted her relief by temporarily restraining her relatives from disturbing her possession over the theatre, or alienating the same till the decision of the suit.
 
 In October 2017, Priyanka entered into a leave and license agreement for five years with four partners; Gulshan Kesharwani, Suraj Shekawat, Vinod Bhandari and Nikhil Lad. The agreement was for complete renovation of theatre and exhibition of films against monthly rent of Rs 40,000. The one-screen cinema hall, which had remained defunct for a long time due to ownership disputes, was supposed to resume functioning with the latest horror flick ‘1921’, and the four partners had spent Rs 25 lakh to renovate it.
 
 Early on the morning of January 12, the case took a dramatic turn with the entry into Alankar Talkies of the temporary owner Priyanka Maheshkar, along with her relatives Baba Patil, Kapil Patil, Mrudul Patil and others. They left the place locked and deployed guards, stalling the release of the Hindi film ‘1921’, for which the rights of exhibition had been purchased by the four partners.
 
 The four partners then lodged a complaint of criminal trespass, land grabbing and theft, among other charges, against Priyanka and her relatives. Sources at the police station said Priyanka too joined hands with her relatives to lodge a complaint against the four partners with the police.
 
 On Monday, Sitabuldi police issued notice to all the parties in the dispute, cautioning them against any further untoward incidents. Zonal DCP   is learnt to have met the parties to the dispute at Sitabuldi police station over two hours, with the cops suggesting an amicable settlement of the issue. “We will tackle the matter in our way,” the cop had said.
 
 Senior PI  , who admitted observing that Priyanka was under some pressure, said that the police cannot act against anyone since she has herself clarified in writing that the matter was being taken up for settlement between all three parties. “The matter is civil in nature,” he said.
 
 The relatives, sources said, are objecting to Priyanka entering into an agreement with the four partners without obtaining their consent. The police are pressuring the three parties to settle the matter without registering any offences.
 
 
