Mumbai: Finally breaking its silence on its supervisory role in the over Rs 11,300-crore   fraud, the   said that it has warned banks at least thrice since August 2016 of possible misuse of the   Infrastructure. SWIFT — an acronym for the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunications — is a messaging platform used to send secure instructions on transfer of funds, guarantees and payments.

 However, despite RBI’s early warning, banks are at various stages of implementation of the prescribed safeguards, the regulator said. The central bank also announced the appointment of chartered accountant   (80), who was part of the RBI’s board for 17 years, to head a panel that will look into the causes of fraud at lenders and the reason for their failure in identifying defaulters. According to the RBI, its inspection of banks have shown that there are major differences in the default accounts identified by it and those classified by banks.
 
 “The risks arising from the potential malicious use of the SWIFT infrastructure, created by banks for their genuine business needs, has always been a component of their operational risk profile,” the RBI said in a statement here. The RBI said that it had, therefore, confidentially cautioned and alerted banks of such possible misuse at least on three occasions since August 2016, advising them to implement the safeguards detailed by it for pre-empting such occurrences. Incidentally, Urjit Patel’s appointment as RBI governor was notified in August 2016. 
  
 
 In September 2016, following a cyber heist in the Bangladesh Central Bank and an attempted cyber attack on the SWIFT systems of  , then RBI deputy governor S S Mundra had warned banks on frauds in SWIFT usage. Mundra had said, “We have also come across instances of fraudulent messages confirming documentary credits being transmitted using SWIFT infrastructure. Although the latter incidents were mainly a result of failure of internal controls and non-adherence to ‘four eyes principles’, it is also on account of reliance on disparate systems whereby SWIFT transactions could be done without originating a corresponding transaction in the core banking system.”
 
 In the wake of SWIFT-related fraud involving significant amounts, as reported recently by PNB, the RBI reiterated on Tuesday its confidential instructions, and mandated lenders to implement — within the stipulated deadlines — the prescribed measures for strengthening the SWIFT-operating environment in banks.
 
 The mandate to the Malegam panel follows large differences in asset classification and provisioning in the credit portfolio of banks as well as the rising incidence of frauds. The panel will recommend ways, including information technology interventions, to prevent bank fraud. It will also look at the role and effectiveness of various audits conducted in banks in mitigating the incidence of such divergence and frauds. The other members of the panel include Bharat Doshi, member, central board of directors, RBI; S Raman, former chairman,   and former whole time member, Sebi; and Nandkumar Saravade, CEO, Reserve Bank Information Technology (ReBIT). A K Misra, executive director, RBI, will be the member-secretary of the committee.
 
 
