NEW DELHI: Days after the government withdrew its controversial order that said journalists may lose accreditation if found to have created or circulated 
  the I&B ministry has decided to constitute a committee to frame rules to regulate news portals and media websites.

 
 Though an order to this effect has not been released officially, a 'leaked' copy of the April 4 order signed by director, broadcasting in the ministry,  , was widely available on the internet.
 
 It states that since "there are no norms or guidelines to regulate online media websites and news portals", the government-appointed committee should "frame and suggest a regulatory framework for online media/news portals, including digital broadcasting and entertainment/infotainment sites and news/media aggregators".
 
 The ministry has appointed a 10-member committee comprising secretaries of the ministries of I&B, law, home, electronics and IT, and the department of industrial policy and promotion. Members also include the chief executive of MyGov, and representatives of the  , News Broadcasters Association and Indian Broadcasters Federation.
 
 
 
 
 Speaking at ET Now's India Economic Conclave in New Delhi, I&B minister   had said the real challenge for the government was to create a "proactive policy which upholds the right to free speech, but at the same time doesn't give anyone the right to instigate a riot". "That is where the balance has to be found," Irani had said.
 
 The April 4 order said the committee's mandate was to "delineate the sphere of online information dissemination which needs to be brought under regulation, on the lines applicable for print and electronic media". The committee has also been asked to recommend "appropriate policy formulation" for online media, news portal and online content platforms.
 
 Industry insiders expressed apprehension over the move. Anant Goenka of The Indian Express said, "The terms of reference of the committee are vague and it is difficult, therefore, to ascertain its scope. How active this committee will be and its repercussions remain to be seen. On a first look, however, I think that there are too many members of government and there isn't any representation from the segment it hopes to regulate. Having members of the government involved in the free flow of news and information is not welcome. If the committee's regulations ultimately prove to be the government's back door attempt to control mainstream news, I have no doubt that they will meet the same fate as similar attempts in the past."
 
 Dhanya Rajendran of The News Minute said, "I'm all for a registry of news websites through which they can at least be recognised by the government. State governments often do not recognise them. But a potential regulation should not take away the freedom people currently have to set up a news website."
 
