GUWAHATI:   government employees have joined hands with the All Assam Students' Union (Aasu) to intensify their protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2016 with the slogan 'Job not above motherland'. The most influential association of the employees-Sodou   (SAKP)-which enjoys the support of over 3.5 lakh employees, on Tuesday announced a statewide stir with   to oppose the Bill. 

 SAKP said the Bill would diminish the supremacy of the indigenous Assamese communities if implemented. Both the organizations said that apart from opposing the Bill, ensuring an error-free National Register of Citizens (NRC) is also on their agenda. They said the roadmap for the joint movement would focus on these two issues plaguing the state. 
 
 Opposing the amendment, the two leading organizations will stage a protest in front of the Raj Bhavan here on June 4. At a joint meeting of Aasu and SAKP in the city on Tuesday, it was decided they approach the deputy commissioners of the districts for the safety and security of employees engaged in NRC update process. It was also decided that May 18 would be observed as 'Preronar Din' to encourage the employees executing the mammoth task of listing genuine Indian citizens.
 
 "SAKP emerged out of the Assam agitation whereby employees of the state government showed great courage to voice their views defying odds. With the slogan, 'Job not above motherland' chanted during the Assam agitation, we have once again joined hands with Aasu to fight for the cause of the state. Karmachari Parishad has expressed opposition to the Bill before the  , when its members visited Assam recently," said SAKP president Basab Kalita.
 
 Alleging that employees engaged in the NRC update process were being pressured to include names of suspected illegal immigrants, Aasu chief adviser   said, "In certain places, government employees are being pressured to insert the names of residents based on verbal information. This is a clear violation of norm. They are feeling the pressure at various levels. We appeal to district administrations to ensure the security of employees to help them work without fear."
 
 The verification work of NRC has to be completed by May 31 in accordance with a directive from the Supreme Court. "The Centre wanted to pass the Bill by delaying the update process but that failed," Bhattacharyya added.
 
 Aasu president Dipanka Kumar Nath and general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi said the Bill, if passed, will push the Assamese language, culture and indigenous tribes and communities of Assam to the brink. 
 
 
