For  , flying kites on   is not just a ritual, but also a fun experience. The television actor may be busy shooting throughout the year, but he tries to keep himself free on this day to fly kites and relive his childhood memories. He often visits his hometown,  , where he joins his friends in the revelry.

 Bombay Times got to see first-hand what a pro the actor is with kites, when we took him to Marine Drive a few days before the festival. With a few deft strokes, his colourful kite took to the sky, and with every dip and flight he seemed to forget his serious demeanour and revealed his carefree side. 
 
 
 
 Vivian says that Makar Sankranti is his favourite festival. He elaborates, “I started flying kites when I was 10 and I learnt it myself. Back home, everyone gathers on the terrace to fly kites as the music plays in the background. The vibrant colours of kites in the sky, the wind in your face and the positivity around makes the experience even more special.”
 
 
 On Makar Sankranti, Vivian’s day begins early, around 7 am, and he heads straight to the terrace to fly kites. The actor says, “We have all our meals on the terrace and don’t come down before sunset. I break all diet rules on this day and eat everything — right from til ka laddoo made by my naani to aloo vada for breakfast and dal bafla in lunch. As a kid, I used to make the manjha at home. The festival still evokes the same joy as it did in the past. And the excitement builds up from the first week of January as I know the festival is around the corner.” 
 
 
 Interestingly, Vivian breaks the thread of his first kite after flying it and considers it lucky for him. “One of the rituals which I follow is that I let go of my first kite in the sky. I break the thread of the kite after flying it for luck. Post that begins the real  ,” he says with a childlike glint in his eyes. He adds, “In a day, I used to cut 200-plus kites. I remember chasing kites on a big ground in Ujjain.” 
 
 
 The actor has never used artificial manjha for his kites. “This kind of manjha can hurt birds,” says Vivian. He also has a few tips to shares: “Don’t get carried away during the game. Nothing is more important than your life, so don’t try to pull a kite out from an electric pole or from entangled wires as it may harm you. I would also request people not to use artificial manjha; you can cut your fingers.
 
