According to national   coach  , when girls decide to achieve something, they get possessive about it. They pursue it with a strong mind; they learn things quickly; they display the skills confidently. He can say this because he’s seen his proteges   and   transform from rookies into world-class players.

 
 
 
 
 
 He shared stories of the transformation with a room full of women, men and kids at a FICCI FLO gathering in the city over the weekend, where he was in conversation with Rajesh Kalra, chief editor of Times Internet, who is also on the PM’s Olympic Task Force. The stories had them both choked and cracking up.
 
 
 
 Starting with former World No 1 Nehwal, he said all she wants to do is win matches – her temperament is “rock-solid” and “class apart”, and that we needed someone like her to prove that Indian women can win games internationally. “She would not worry if her opponent was a senior Indian or a World No 1, 2, or 3. We would do no big talks or half-an-hour lectures before the match. She would go in saying ‘haan, maar doongi bhaiya’ (I will defeat the opponent), and come back to tell me, ‘Jeet gayi, bhaiya’ (I won).”
 
 
 
 
 
 Or, sample this: “She was 17 or 18 when she lost the quarter finals at 2008 Olympics. She was disheartened. So while coming back in the bus, I told her jokingly ‘Tomorrow, 6am’. I didn’t expect her to say ‘yes’ because we had been training for five-six months. Instead she asked, ‘Bhaiya, can we start the training at 6.30am?’” Once, they landed up in China during the New Year, with pretty much only meat on the dining table. “Saina was a vegetarian, so I had to introduce her to meat. She started off with duck’s tongue!”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The chat moved on to Olympic medallist Sindhu, who’s been training at Gopichand’s Hyderabad academy since she was nine. She is a go-getter, “who will never say no”. He began, “I used to wake up at 4am to meditate. Then I used to train Saina, Srikanth (Kadambi) and others from 5.30am. I didn’t have time to accommodate Sindhu. But when Sindhu barely managed to get into the sub-junior nationals, I told myself: “Forget meditation’ and asked her to come for training at 4.15am.” She did, and continued to show up at 4.15am till January 2017. That training went beyond hitting the shuttle right. “Sindhu is a shy girl. So I would leave her in the middle of the court to stand and shout. She would end up crying but not shouting, and then I would get to hear a shriek.”
 
 Then Kalra dropped the big question: What is the rapport between Nehwal, 28, and Sindhu, 22? The former defeated her compatriot to clinch the women’s singles at the 21s Commonwealth Games last month. “They are extremely competitive. They don’t want to lose out to each other.” That’s all he spared.
 
 
 
 
 Seeing his students lose used to upset him – he would lose sleep or palpitate during matches. But the 44-year-old has learnt to be more dispassionate and collected, his Zen-like persona belies the angry man he once used to be. Yoga and meditation may have helped but so did the injuries he incurred as a player before he turned a coach in 2004, he admits. “When you fall so many times in life (literally), you become humble,” said the former All England Open Badminton Champion. “Also, in sport you are never far away from a defeat. So you can’t take things for granted.”
 
 However, the respective stardom of Nehwal, Sindhu and his other illustrious students hasn’t changed their relationship. “We are more like a family. Earlier, I would take them out for a buffet of `199. Then it became `300. Now they want to go hotels. Earlier, we would have bikes parked in the academy, now we have cars. Only that has changed.” His young guns help him download apps or listen to podcasts.
 
 “Saina is a big Bollywood fan, she keeps telling me about films,” says  , whose life will be rolled out as a biopic in Bollywood, and so will Nehwal’s in separate films.
 
 
 
 Beyond his two famous students, he spoke of his mother who has been a “solid” force in his career, and how he “can’t afford” his former shuttle player-wife PVV Lakshmi as a coach in his academy. Then he also spoke of a 13-year-old girl. “I threw shuttle at her, she fumbled and missed the catch. I got annoyed, asked her ‘Can’t you catch properly?’, and walked off. Later, she came to me and said, ‘Teach me how to catch’.”
 
 At this point, Gopichand said sports should not be about winning medals and defeating others, but competing with oneself and becoming better. We need physical literacy as much as we need the knowledge of numbers and alphabets, he says. “Sports has a bigger role in life. If you learn to walk, run, throw, catch, jump and swim while you are young, you will grow up to be confident.... So every kid must play sports.” But his “forget studies, play sports” remark sent one parent into tizzy.
 
 As if to thank Gopichand for his inspiring talk, a man got up to share an incident. He said, “Recently, I was travelling in a cab in Australia.
 
 When I told the driver (who was a Chinese) that I am Indian, he looked at me and said ‘Kadambi’. Not Amitabh or Sachin.” Gopichand accepted the compliment of putting Indian badminton on the world map with a smile, and photo-ops later.
 
 
