MUMBAI/LUCKNOW: At least three of the 20 all-India CAT 2017 toppers are from Mumbai. Two are final-year students at IIT-Bombay-Arvind Menon and  .

 A host of other students from the premier Powai institute and other engineering institutes such as VJTI have scored above 99 percentile this year.
 
 D'Souza (41) got a 100 percentile for the fourth time this year. D'Souza, who first gave CAT in 1996, failed to get an IIM call then. After pursuing his MBA from  , he joined a corporate firm. Four years later, he quit his job to get into teaching. "Since then, I have been training a small group of students for CAT. Some of my candidates managed over 99 percentile every year. It is very important to stay abreast of current trends in paper patterns and questions. It is a different experience for me every year," said D'Souza, a Thane resident.
 
 
  
  
 
 Chhavi Gupta, an IIT-Delhi pass-out, is one of the two women who made it to the small but elite club of girls who aced CAT. Neha Manglik, from BITS Pilani, had scored a 100 percentile in 2014 and before that another female candidate had topped the exam in 2009.
 
 Gupta started her preparation in March keeping the study for weekends. "I was working and couldn't spend much time during the weekday. But over the months I started putting in more effort, gave mock tests during weekdays and analyzed the results," she said and advises candidates to remain calm. "I had fumbled in my test but was confident of cracking it because I had given a lot of mocks."
 
 Among the country's toppers are Meet Agarwal from Ahmedabad, Vishal Vora from Kolkata, Sai Praneeth Reddy from IIT-Madras and Madhur Gupta of Delhi Technical University. Chennai's coaching class faculty Rajesh Balasubramanium, a serial topper like D'Souza, made it to the elite club. Kolkata's Avdipto Chakraborthy, who works with a consultancy firm, cracked it second year in a row.
 
 Ever since additional marks were introduced for women and non-engineers in 2010 by IIMs, the class profile has changed, increasing the diversity. Former CAT chair and HRM professor Himanshu Rai said, "Before 2010, 90% male engineers would crack CAT. Now there are close to 35% women and 25-30% non-engineers." After CAT, various IIMs will release their short-list for subsequent process considering CAT score and other criteria. Over 100 other non-IIM institutions use CAT for admission.
 
 
