Mumbai: A city civil   on Wednesday did not grant any injunction against a   by Tata Institute of Social Sciences ( ) students as long as it was   and did not obstruct the daily activities of the administration and institute. The final order of the court is, however, yet to be made available.

 The TISS administration had moved court on Wednesday against six protesting students, including Fahad Ahmed, general secretary of the students’ union, TISS Mumbai, for allegedly obstructing the institute’s official work. “The students and their supporters are engaged in various forms of illegal activities and actively instigating students within campus to agitate,’’ said the TISS plea filed through advocate, V K Wasnik. 
 
 Wasnik argued that the students had “taken law into their hands’’ and blocked the registrar and administration from performing duties recently. 
 
 But the students’ lawyer, Bhavana Mhatre of Human Rights Law Network, pointed out that students were holding a peaceful protest and were not violent and not obstructive. The court took their statement on record. She also sought time to file a reply. When asked by the judge, G R Agarwal, why they were protesting, she said the protest was for a charter of pending demands. She added that a meeting scheduled for negotiation with the institute was cancelled by the administration on Wednesday citing pendancy of the matter in court. The judge refused to restrain the protesting students as long as they did cause any obstruction. The court left it open for the students and administration to have settlement talks and kept the matter for further hearing on June 19 when the students would file their reply.
 
 Ahmed said the administration should resolve the issue through dialogue. The students, many of whom had gathered in court, said they were peacefully protesting for 36 days and were open to a settlement in their “fight for social justice”. Among their demands is a plea to continue financial aid for reserved category students and for financial transparency at TISS.
 
 At all four TISS campuses (Mumbai, Hyderabad, Tuljapur and Guwahati), students have been protesting against the institute’s decision to withdraw financial aid to students from scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, other backward classes (including religious and other minorities) who are eligible for Central government post-matriculation scholarships.
 
 The reason for rollback on financial aid was fund cuts by UGC, said TISS. Students said not everyone can afford hostel and dining charges and the cuts would prejudice reserved category students from pursuing higher education.
 
 
