CHANDIGARH: Kush  , 18, a student of St Soldier School, Sector 28, Chandigarh, scored 98.8% in humanities to top in the Tricity in the Class XII CBSE board exams, the results of which were declared on Saturday.

 
 Kush, a football enthusiast, said he chose humanities to be able to easily manage time to play the game along with preparing for the exams. He was also the sports captain of his school.
 
 “I will be undergoing a surgery in the next few days, so I doubt I will be able to play football in the coming years,” said Kush, whose father is an assistant manager in Haryana Cooperative Bank and encouraged him to carry forward his love for football. Kush said he aims to secure admission in a college affiliated with   and pursue a degree in journalism. “I want to pursue a course that deals with practicality and journalism will provide that. I also want to highlight the problems of the society,” he said.
 
 While he devoted time for football, he missed out on his studies. To cover up the syllabus, he was helped by his teacher Navita Rao and his friend Ayush. “My English teacher Navita Rao provided me with study material of all the subjects.”
 
 On his success mantra, he said, “I never took any pressure. I just maintained calm during examinations and studied regularly. I think that made all the difference.”
 
 The toppers in other three streams — medical, non-medical and commerce — were students from Bhavan Vidyalaya, Panchkula. With 97.8 percent, 17-year-old   Goel topped in the commerce stream in the Tricity.
 
 She retired from social media
 
 Muskan said, “My parents and sister, always supported me and inspired me to follow in their footsteps. I have decided to become a chartered accountant, like them.”
 
  topped the Tricity in medical stream with 97.6%. She said the result came as a pleasant surprise. “Topping is a cherry on the cake. I still cannot believe it,” she said. She deactivated her social media accounts but watched videos on YouTube.
 
 In non-medical stream, 17-yearold Pranav   topped in the Tricity in non-medical stream with 97.2%. Pranav had bagged All India Rank (AIR) 4 in the Joint Entrance Exam (JEE) (Main) 2018 exam and topped the Tricity in the exam. Son of a businessman, Pranav said one needs to stay focussed during preparations and should also indulge in extra-curricular activities.
 
 Pranav’s parents shared that he has been a bright student as in his Class X board exams he had scored 10 CGP. He had also won the National Talent Search Examination and various scholarship programmes and Olympiads
 
 No topper from bhavan
 
 Bhavan School, which has produced many national-level toppers, did not generate a single topper this year. According to school authorities the student’s percentage dropped as the English scores were down to 40s and 50s. “This happened a few years ago as well and after re-evaluation 20-30 marks of each students were increased. Our students scored 40s and 50s in English. They have been scoring above 90,” said Vineeta Arora, senior principal.
 
