TRICHY: The railway administration is using the battery car, which was inaugurated at   railway junction a few years ago for the physically challenged and  , as a commercial means to earn money. They collect Rs 30 per head even from a senior citizen and a differently-abled person. When we are provided with a concession for travelling in trains, why can’t we be allowed to use the battery car free of cost, questioned a differently-abled person. They have also appealed to the authorities not to collect money for using battery car.

 The car offered easy and comfortable navigation in the railway junction for senior citizens and differently-abled people. These battery cars were mostly used by the vulnerable community such as expecting mothers, severely ill, senior citizens and differently-abled people.
 
 However, railway authorities are keen on making money by commercializing the service, alleged, M Kamaraj, a differently-abled activist in Trichy.
 
 “Transportation by battery car was available for us free of cost, but now one needs to pay Rs 30 for a ride. It is not acceptable. I used the car only after paying the fare. The car driver never considered me as a differently-able one,” he said.
 
 K Nallusamy, hailing from   who underwent heel surgery arrived at Trichy railway junction from   and landed on platform number two. He called the battery car and when he heard about the charge, he was shocked. Because he had to pay Rs 90 to reach platform number one along with his wife and mother. “This is over and above the bus fare reaching Thanjavur from Trichy,” he said.
 
 Battery car driver   said that once it was operated free of cost. However, now the railways had handed over the operation to a contractor and allowed them to collect the fare, he said.
 
 “We have no option but to collect the required fare, whether the passenger is senior citizen or differently-able person,” he said.
 
 When contacted, a senior official from Trichy railway division said that as per the railway board’s policy, they have leased it for a contract. They could not change the policy decisions, he said.
 
 
