From topics like stereotypes attached to beauty and problem of illiteracy to desires and confusions in one’s life, the group dance competition at  , 2018, the annual cultural fest of   of Applied Science For Women, saw a variety of dance performances with unique themes put up by various colleges of Delhi University. Dance societies of  ,  ,  , University College of Medical Sciences and Netaji Subhash Institute of Technology participated in the competition, where LSR emerged the winner.

 
  
  The audience had a ball watching the performances
 
  Aashna Katoch, judge, said, “I have seen a couple of teams perform before, but there were few I was watching for the first time. DU’s dance scene is getting better. Usually, themes get repeated, but there were some fresh themes being explored by a few teams.” Khyati, a student of Shaheed Rajguru, said, “I liked the performance of Sri Venkateswara College which was about illiteracy. They were the most coordinated ones. I liked their costumes and makeup.”
 
  
  Dancesco, the dance society of Lady Shri Ram College for Women
 
  Rishabh Sharma, one of the audience members, said, “I liked the performance of Sensation, the dance society of  . It looked like a theatrical act with all drama and music. They didn’t just dance but acted as well. In a beautiful performance, they showed us the story of a kingdom and how greed and desire take over a man’s senses. Though they didn’t win, I thoroughly enjoyed their performance.”
 
  
  Nritya, the choreography Society of Sri Venkateswara College
 
  
  Capella, the dance society of Netaji Subhash Institute of Technology put up their production, The Labyrinth
 
  
  Celeste, the dance society of University College of Medical Sciences
 
 
  
  Aashna Katoch, the judge for the competition
 
  
  Nritya, Choreography Society of Sri Venkateswara College
 
 
  
  Sensation, the dance society of Kirori Mal College, showcased their annual production 'The Temptations'
 
 
  
  Capella, the dance society of Netaji Subhash Institute of Technology showcased their production 'The Labyrinth'
 
 
  
  Akashdeep, student of KMC
 
 
  
  Dancesco, the dance society of Lady Shri Ram College for Women
 
 
  
 
 
 
