Chennai: The last time   played at Chennaiyin FC’s home ground — the   — they went on a scoring spree, pumping in three goals past the local heroes. On Tuesday, too, they will need to do something similar in order to advance to the   final as Chennaiyin have already scored a crucial away goal in the first leg semifinal, which ended 1-1. Under the circumstances, Goa will have to score at least once if they harbour any hopes of making the final.

 
 
 But it won’t be easy even as Goa have won three of their four matches here. The tightly-knit and organised backline of Chennaiyin, comprising Mailson Alves, Henrique Sereno, Inigo Calderon and Jerry Lalrinzuala, has been the most consistent and hardly yields any space to their opponents to operate. During the first leg, Goa had enjoyed lion’s share of the possession — 69 per cent — but that barely translated into goals despite having the tournament’s highest scorer Ferran Corominas (18 goals) and fourth highest scorer Manuel Lanzarote (13) in their ranks.
 
 In a bid to breach Chennaiyin’s defence, Goa will be banking on midfielder Hugo Boumous, who recovered from an injury. Boumous, who missed the first leg, has the ability to carve open rivals’ defence with a through ball or by threading a pass. Coach Sergio Lobera will certainly entrust the Moroccan to provide the final ball to Corominas and Lanzarote. Chennaiyin, on the other hand, will continue to employ holding midfielders Bikramjit Singh and Dhanpal Ganesh, who played brilliantly in first leg, to stop Boumous.
 
 “There weren’t many gaps in Chennaiyin defence in the first leg. We also didn’t have enough numbers in attack. So it was tough for us. But this match will be different. We will go out there looking to win and play our brand of attacking football. We will also play as a team and hope we come out the winner,” Lobera said at the pre-match conference on Monday.
 
 FC Goa, though, cannot focus only on attack and leave their defence open. When Chennaiyin attack, they hunt in a pack. That they have 11 different players who have scored this season, an achievement no other team can boast off, shows their prowess. Interestingly, Chennaiyin have scored 11 of their 25 goals in the final 15 minutes. It means that Goa cannot relax even if they score and speaks volumes about the fitness of John Gregory’s outfit.
 
 The only concern for Chennaiyin will be Jeje Lalpekhlua’s form and Calderon’s niggle. Jeje, who is Chennaiyin’s top scorer with seven goals, has been firing blanks in the last seven matches while Calderon has a gash on his right calf after sustaining a hard tackle in the last match. But Gregory backed the Mizo and said Inigo will play.
 
 “Whatever it takes, we have to qualify tomorrow. Our focus will be to keep a clean sheet. We worked exceptionally hard in the first leg and we were disappointed that we couldn’t make most of our chances. But I just keep supporting Jeje because he has won us many matches and I have faith in him. No matter what, Calderon will play,” Gregory said.
 
 
