Mysuru: With the success of the   ( ) units set up by the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) at various places in the city, the agency is all set to set up additional units. These units dispense 20 litres of pure   for Rs 5.

 Last year, MCC had set up 13 RO units across the city near localities where residents face drinking water shortage during summer. The initiative became successful after people started collecting water from RO units instead of buying packaged water. The units were set up in localities which had a large working class population and students’ hostels. 
 
 MCC officials said of the 13 units, seven were maintained by Acqua Tech of Mysuru while the remaining six units were maintained by a Hassan-based agency. Each unit was set up at a cost of around Rs 7 lakh and produces 2,000 litres of drinking water per hour.
 
 Prakash Jain, a 56-year-old resident of Kuvempunagar, is happy with the initiative. “I’ve been fetching water from the RO unit on Panchamantara road of Kuvempunagar for a year. I take water every day to our medical shop where it’s consumed by customers as well as my family. We haven’t faced problem regarding drinking water,” he said.
 
 As there was a huge demand from the public for these units near their localities, MCC had decided to set up 15 more units. While 10 units will be set up in Chamaraja assembly constituency, five will be in Narashimaraja segment under the MLA’s grant under local area development project.
 
 Meanwhile, MCC is calling fresh tenders for maintenance of 13 RO units. “The one-year defect liability period will end by June. After the teachers and graduate constituencies elections code of conduct is announced, fresh tenders after June 15 for maintenance will be invited for three years. The earlier maintenance was for a year,” said MCC water supply department executive engineer Anand.
 
 Miscreants tamper RO units
 
 While RO units were kept open all the time, miscreants tried to remove coins collected in the units. MCC claims that neither MCC nor the contractor who does maintenance can take up security as it’s a huge burden.
 
 “The contractor has to change the RO membrane which itself cost around Rs 30,000 and maintain the four HP motors to pump water from the borewell, the technicians’ fees, cost of chemicals, among other work. Deputing security guards will be a huge burden. As there were incidents of miscreants tampering with the units, MCC needs public support to protect the machines,” authorities said.
 
 NGOs invited for maintenance
 
 MCC, which has given its land to Indian Oil Corporation to set up and maintain three RO units in the city, requested organisations and associations to come forward and take up maintenance. “The NGOs or associations can support MCC in maintaining a healthy environment by setting up and maintening RO units,” said MCC executive engineer Anand. 
 
 MCC health officer Dr BG Nagaraj said drinking unclean and contaminated water is a major cause of several waterborne diseases. “People can avoid diseases by drinking water purified in RO units,” he said. 
 
 
