NAGPUR: In a first-of-its-kind initiative for girls, the   (NBA) will conduct a series of basketball development camps across the globe, including India, China, Australia and Senegal. The   Women’s Programme, announced on Thursday, will provide the much-needed boost particularly to women players of the country.

 
 To start with, the   Academy will organize first such camp from March 9-11 at its academy in Latin America, an elite basketball training centre in Mexico City. The camp for Indian girls will start in later part of the year at their elite training centre in Delhi National Capital Region. Similar camps are also planned in Australia, China and Senegal by the end of 2018, where the NBA, in association with the national federations concerned, will identify 20-25 female prospects of Under-17 for their advanced training.
 
 1996 Olympic Gold Medalist and Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame member Jennifer Azzi, two-time WNBA Champion Ruth Riley and former college coach Blair Hardiek will oversee the camps.
 
 On NBA’s maiden initiative for women players of the country, the NBA India Managing Director Yannick Colaco said, “We are committed to growing the game of basketball among boys and girls at both the youth and elite levels. After our successful launch of the NBA Academy India last year, we are looking forward to bringing the women’s Programme to India in 2018.”
 
 Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame member Jennifer Azzi added, “It’s an honour to be a part of the NBA Academies Women’s Programme. I am looking forward to work with the talented girls from Africa, Australia, China, India and Latin America and help them maximize their potential on and off the court.”
 
 NBA vice president, International Basketball Operations and Head of Elite Basketball Brooks Meek said, “The programme is a part of our commitment towards taking the game forward among boys and girls at the young and elite levels around the world. Having Jennifer, Ruth and Blair in talent-hunt team, these talented young women players will get major boost to develop their respective games.”
 
 As part of International Women’s Day and the NBA Academies’ player development and life skills initiative, the NBA will also convene a panel of female business and sports leaders on March 9 at The NBA Academy, Latin America, to the select probable players of March 9-11 camp. The panel will focus on personal and professional development, making the most of opportunities, and goal setting.
 
 NBA Academies include educational development for top male and female prospects from outside the US and mark the NBA’s signature elite player development initiative. The initiative, which employs a holistic, 360-degree approach to player development with focuses on education, leadership, character development and life skills, exposes elite prospects to NBA-level coaching, facilities and competition and provides a global framework for them to maximize their success.
 
