GURUGRAM: Work on the proposed alternative route connecting   (SPR) with NH-8, bypassing   Daula toll plaza, has finally started. Once complete, commuters from Golf Course Road and   can directly reach Manesar through SPR, without needing to cross the busy toll plaza. The project will cost   Rs 33.69 crore and is expected to be complete by April.

 At present, SPR meets NH-8 a kilometre ahead of Kherki Daula. The new route will start from the road dividing sectors 75-75A, and meet NH-8 near Sector 83, via the road diving sectors 77-78, and passing through master roads of sectors 76 and 77. Once these new sectors road are completed, commuters from Golf Course Road and Faridabad can directly reach Manesar through SPR, without needing to cross the busy Kherki toll plaza. The road is also expected to benefit residents of new sectors 80-90, as they will be able to reach Golf Course Road, Sohna road, Faridabad road and other parts of Gurgaon without having to cross the toll plaza.
 
 The timeline for construction of all these roads, with total length of 8km, is one year, but the administrator has directed the contractor and Huda’s engineering cell to complete the project by April. The project gains importance as the scheduled shifting of the Kherki toll plaza has been repeatedly delayed.
 \
  
  
 
 Huda administrator Yashpal Yadav said work order for the construction of the road has been issued. “The contractor has been asked to complete the work by April, while Huda’s engineering cell has been asked to oversee it sticks to deadline,” said Yadav.
 
 Developers with projects in new sectors are excited, as the road will improve connectivity and reduce travel time. “The alternative road, bypassing Kherki toll, will allow commuters from Golf Course Road, Faridabad and parts of Gurgaon to reach Manesar without having to cross the toll, enhancing connectivity and reducing travel time,” said Harinder Dhillon, VP (Sales), DLF.
 
 Rahul Singla, director, Mapsko Group, echoed similar sentiments. “The alternative road, bypassing Kherki, will be the cherry on the cake for commuters,” he said.
 
 
