Mysuru: Although only three days remain for the start of Swachh Survekshan, the district administration is yet to activate zero waste management plants across the city, said senior   leader   after carrying out an inspection of garbage processing units across the city on Monday.

 In December, the former minister had staged an indefinite protest against the stench emanating from the Vidyaranyapuram Sewage Farm, where he alleged solid waste was being dumped well beyond the capacity that it could handle. Deputy commissioner D Randeep had subsequently assured Ramdas that the eight ZWMs across the city would start functioning by the end of December.
 
 To check if the district administration had delivered on its promises, Ramdas visited the ZWM unit at Jodi Tengina Mara Burial Ground at Bannimantap, managed by the Sri Jayashri Nagara and Gramina Kshemabhirudhi Samsthe for the past five years. Around five tonnes of garbae from Kailasapura, Meena Bazaar, Eranagere, BB Keri, Tilak Nagar, Bannimantap and Bannimantap hudco layout wards are ferried to this unit in 16 autorickshaws to the plant, where the waste is segregated, composted and stored.
 
 The Samsthe president Gowri said, “There are nine people working at the unit. We prepare five tonnes of compost every month, which is given to farmers of Pandavapura free of cost. Meanwhile, the vermicompost is sold at Rs 3,000 per tonne.”
 
 She added that   had demanded that the amount of waste processed at the plant be increased from five to 10 tonnes. “We can do so if MCC provides more staff,” Gowri said.
 
 The other ZWM unit at Bannimantap, managed by Jai Bharathi Samruddhi Samsthe handles four tonnes of garbage. Harish, who heads the unit, said, “Waste is collected from Medar block, Devaraj Mohalla, Subbarayana Kere, Laskar Mohalla and Mandi Mohalla. We work with just ten pairs of hands.”
 
 After inspecting ZWM units at Kesare, University of Mysore premises, at the Gokulam Burial Ground and the Muslim Burial Ground, Ramdas expressed disappointment that only four ZWM units of the eight ZWM plants across Mysuru were functioning.
 
 “Randeep promised me all eight ZWM units would function from January 1 but only four are functioning. At Kesare, animal waste is not disposed of scientifically. Consequently, stray animals and birds are attracted to it,” Ramdas said.
 
 Pointing out that the Centre allocated Rs 99,000 per unit under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan, Ramdas added, “MCC has drawn Rs 32 crore, but only 50% of the work has been completed. I have already written to the Central Pollution Board, Pollution Control Board and Human Rights Commission.”
 
 The former minister said that details he had collated in the course of the inspection would be submitted to the government, and a probe ordered into irregularities pertaining to the use of funds. “With just a few days left for the Swachh Survekshan to begin, the district administration has failed to take up ZWM units,” Ramdas said.
 
 
