LUCKNOW: In an apparent bid to consolidate its non-Yadav OBC vote bank, the ruling   is contemplating allocating an additional ministerial berth and a legislative council seat to its ally partner   (AD) even as it gears up to take on the SP-BSP combine in the run-up to 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 

 At present, the state cabinet comprises one minister from AD-Jai Kumar Singh- with no representation in the upper house. 
 
 Informed sources said that a final blueprint of AD's bigger representation in the Yogi cabinet and its introduction in the upper house of UP assembly is likely to be laid out soon after BJP chief Amit Shah's scheduled visit to Lucknow on April 10.
 
 With a total strength of nine MLAs, AD had contributed in BJP's win against the SP-BSP combine in the recently concluded Rajya Sabha elections. 
 
 Political experts said BJP's plans may be driven by an aim to consolidate its position among Kurmis which account for around 4% of UP population. AD, which is dominated by Kurmis, has also been vocal for constitution of a separate OBC commission on the lines of SC/ST commission.
 
  Also, the party has been seeking reservation benefits in the posting of senior administrative officials and Police. Speaking to TOI, Apna Dal chief   said that though there has been no such demand from the party during the RS elections, any positive reciprocation from the BJP would be welcome.
 
  "We initiated an alliance with the BJP for 2014 Lok Sabha elections, 2017 UP assembly elections and now are with them for 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Our alliance is for the larger interest of the people," he said. 
 
 Apna Dal spokesperson   said that the party also strongly sided with the BJP after the opposition sought to move a no-confidence motion against the   government. BJP's plan to give more importance to AD also comes close on the heels of CM  's statement in UP assembly saying that his government might consider separate reservation for the most backward classes (MBCs) and 'maha dalits' (most backward among dalits).
 
 
