All roads led to   at   over the weekend where the fourth edition of   was on in full swing. The annual carnival dedicated to livestock is a platform for farmers to meet each other, display their cattle and also win prizes for the same. The three-day event kick-started with a ‘Gomatha Puja’ on Friday for which 108 cows and villagers from the neighbouring 35 hamlets were in attendance. Over the weekend, the 40-acre farm was abuzz with activity as visitors thronged the venue to get a glimpse of the  .

 Shankar Vanavarayar of the Vanavarayar Foundation, which organised the event, tells us, “There is lot of scope for entrepreneurship in rural economy and youngsters should make the most of it. The Kaalnadai Thiruvizha serves as a meeting point for farmers and livestock breeders and aspiring farmers. The other objective is to spread awareness on native breeds. This year, we saw some of the best quality livestock in display. People brought their cattle from as far as Tanjore, Madurai, Anthiyur, Erode, Kerala and Pollachi as well. Though the format of the event remains the same, it’s getting bigger and better by the year.”
 
 A beauty show and competition for the livestock had the farmers on their toes on Saturday and Sunday. “The competition is categorized according to the age and breed of the cattle. The animals are judged by their features, health and the way they have been maintained. The contest is held for native cows, bulls, dogs, horses, sheep and rams. There is also an exhibition showcasing the different products and dairy farms,” says Saravanan Chandrasekaran, member of the organizing committee. Many visitors were spotted taking a fun ride on the bullock cart. Sabari Nathan, a bullock cart owner, who took them for a ride, says, “For most of them, this is the first time they are taking a ride on bullock cart. These are rekla bulls which are used to race and hence, don’t shy away from people.”
 
 Pinning hopes that this year too his cows would win him laurels, farmer SM Arumugam from Samathur brought four cows. “They have been on a winning streak and that’s why I have brought them again. This place is so vibrant and I love coming here.”
 
 For G Senthil Kumar, who runs a milk farm in Madurai, this was the first visit to the event. “I brought four of my   cows here. I didn’t expect it to be such a huge gathering. It’s good to see youngsters showing interest in agrarian economy.” Right next to him, Bommusamy and Murugan are busy shaving the horns of a bull. “I have been doing this job for the last 30 years. With experience, you know where exactly to start shaving. I am a kombu specialist,” says a proud 60- year-old Murugan from Gobichettipalaym, who is much in demand in the livestock circle.
 
 Farmer T Deenadayalan from Udumaplet and his three dogs and his pack of Thanjavur Kuttai cows seem to be a cosy ‘family’. “I have heard that after the Pallava regime, the Thanjavur Kuttai breed gradually started becoming extinct. That’s why I decided to rear this bread. These miniature cows are around two-feet tall and weigh much lesser than the other cows. I have eight of them.” His  ,   and   dogs give them perfect company. “Native breeds require less maintenance, be it dogs or cows. After all, they are from the soil,” he adds.
 
 Tucked away at another corner is a bunch of Katiyawadi horses. “These horses are brought in from Anthiyur and this is the first time that they are coming to this Santhai. They are relatively quiet due to the new surroundings, “says Manikandan E, their caretaker. For many visitors, this was the first time, they touched a horse. “If you plan to touch a horse, never do it from the side. Stand in front of him or her. They need to know who they are dealing with,” he warns. 
 
 IT professional Satheesh Kumar, who had come all the way from Chennai, seemed a happy man. “I hail from an agricultural family in Karur and in my home town people keep talking about how native breeds are diminishing by the day. But, when I came here, I came across some interesting breeds. The event also gave me a lot of exposure. I have been thinking of taking up farming in future and this event was quite helpful for the same.” Apart from the animals, local farmers too enthralled the audience with some traditional dance forms like urumi attam.
 
 
