MOHALI: The local bodies department has outrightly denied conducting the structure stability tests of the   already occupied by the residents. The   alleged the department is more concerned about getting tests done for the collapsed building. They also alleged that the department was ignoring the buildings where people are still residing.

 
  
 
 Shabnam Parmar, a resident said, “A delegation of residents has met the director local bodies on Friday and asked him to get the structure stability tests of the occupied building done. But the director outrightly denied getting the test conducted and said that either the residents get the tests done on their own or ask the developer to conduct the test.”
 
 When contacted local bodies director   said, “Investigation is on and the report will be submitted soon. As far as the structure stability tests are concerned, it is the responsibility of the builder and not the local bodies department.”
 
 Parmar also said that the local bodies department is not bothered about the safety of the residents. “Local bodies department is least concerned to ensure the safety of the residents. Instead, it’s busy collecting the samples of the building materials from the debris to conduct the test.”
 
 The residents said ever since a three-storied building of a housing society,  , nearing completion collapsed in Peer Muchalla area of Zirakpur on April 12, they are spending sleepless nights. “Most of us have kids. Even when we are in office, we are worried about the condition of our flats,” said a resident on condition of anonymity.
 
 Residents Reena Rana, Pawan Aggarwal and Harish Sharma echoed similar sentiments. “Even a mild sound today wakes us up forcing us to come out to the balconies to check the cause of the noise. The administration must come to our rescue. Is the administration waiting for a major disaster to happen?” the residents rued.
 
 FIRs have been registered against 11 builders, a councillor and six officers of MC but no arrests have been made so far in this case. 
 
 
