T’puram: After the first attempt to woo cab aggregators to parking slots at Thiruvananthapuram Central railway station failed, the Thiruvananthapuram division of Southern Railway has come up with a fresh proposal to ensure the presence of cab aggregators like   and   on the central station premises.

 The railway authorities plan to offer a space for the cab aggregators to set up kiosks at the platform and give the permit to enter the station premises and receive and drop passengers at the station.
 
 Unlike the previous proposal, Railways plan to allow space for the   of more than one app-based cab services companies.
 
 “We plan to retender the proposal for cab aggregators with a few changes demanded by them. The cab aggregators informed that their vehicles were always on the move and they do not need a space for parking their vehicle at the station. Attractive offers are also being considered to invite cab operators. With more players in the field, the passengers will get more option and better service,” said Ajay Kaushik, divisional commercial manager, Thiruvananthapuram Division.
 
 Earlier, the division authorities had floated tenders inviting cab aggregators to rent out parking space for five-odd vehicles at the station on a short-term basis. It was part of the non-fare revenue policy of the railway ministry. Though a company responded to the tender, the contract was renewed and railways invited tenders again.
 
 “The stiff resistance from auto and taxi drivers led to the poor response from cab aggregators in the previous tender. So, a fresh proposal is being planned with space for kiosks at the platform, which will ensure security to the staff of the company. Based on demand and availability of space, kiosks will be set up on all platforms,” added Kaushik
 
 Though a cab aggregator approached the railways, there was resistance from auto and taxi drivers. As many as 317 autorickshaws are operating from the pre-paid counter at the railway station and they fear that low-cost cabs will eat into their pie.
 
 The demand of autorickshaw and taxi drivers is for the old parking space in front of the railway station and to relocate the service of cab aggregators near to the second entrance.
 
 “The passengers find it difficult to walk carrying luggage till the pre-paid counter. And the entry of Uber had adversely affected our revenue. We want the old parking space back,” said S Mohankumar, executive member of Railway Auto Rickshaw Union Coordination Committee, Thampanoor.
 
 
