PATNA: Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) general secretary and Katihar MP   said on Wednesday that it had become incumbent upon the state   to clearly state its position on the now revived demand for   to Bihar. He also urged CM Nitish Kumar to take a “strong line” on the issue.

 “Now that the JD(U) has revived the popular demand for special category status to Bihar, it is high time the BJP also clearly states its position on the demand, because the NDA governments are ruling both the country and the state,”   said.
 
 At the same time, Tariq also insisted that CM Nitish, who is also the JD(U) president and heads the NDA government in the state, should take strong line on the issue. “For, even the opposition parties have supported the revived demand,” he said. 
 
 Tariq would sit on a daylong dharna on the premises of his party’s state headquarters on Thursday to press for the special status category demand for Bihar. The party’s state and district office-bearers would also join him, said state NCP spokesman A K Jha.
 
 Tariq also said the Centre should not ignore the demand and, instead, should take steps to grant special status to bring Bihar among the developed states of the country, as the Raghuram Rajan committee and now even the Niti Aayog have pointed to the state’s economic backwardness and its lagging on human index indicators.
 
 Referring to the controversy surrounding the presence of portrait of Mohammad Ali Jinnah at Aligarh Muslim University (AMU), Tariq said the Centre should bring out an ordinance asking for the removal of the portraits of Jinnah from all public buildings in the country.
 
 He said Jinnah’s portrait has been on display not only at AMU but also in several courts and other institutions of the country. He said the AMU case certainly invites a central ordinance because it is a central university and the country’s President is its chancellor. “What worries is that the portrait of Jinnah remained on display even during the regime of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee,” Tariq said, adding: “The fact is that Muslims of India identified themselves with Maulana Abdul Kalam Azad and Gandhi. Those Muslims who identified themselves with Jinnah left the country for Pakistan with him.” 
 
 
