NAGPUR:   has been a great value addition for inculcating reading habits in students, according to principals of Newspaper In Education schools in Nagpur. Speaking to TOI, principals talked about how a change was visible in their students because they would read the newspaper everyday and become updated on current events. 

 Shashibala Dhotekar, principal of St Xaiver School, said, “By just being aware of the current events their confidence level increases because they can answer certain questions in class, whenever any general knowledge query comes up. They become more engaged in the world around them and do discuss among themselves about some important topics as well.” 
 
 She added that Times SPARK was “an amazing platform” for her students. “Kids who are interested in competitive exams can build a strong base for their future preparations and can understand their competence,” said Dhotekar. 
 
 Japmala Bhattacharya, principal of  , said, “Students absolutely loved Times SPARK as it increased their interest in the world around them. Just the simple act of being empowered through information about current events does the confidence level a world of good. Students also appreciated the way the entire event was carried out as they could prove their mettle in a national level competition.” 
 
 Kavita Nagarajan, principal of School of Scholars ( ), said, “I’m very happy that TOI is holding this competition because this way children get to learn new things apart from the regular curriculum. Students are reading newspaper daily and that helps them to gain relevant knowledge about day to day affairs.” The other two schools with high registrations included   ( ). Principals of both schools were not available for comment. 
 
 SPARK (Scholarship Programme for Awareness, Reasoning and Knowledge) is an initiative to encourage students to examine a series of articles and then be tested on what they had read. The objective of the initiative was to broaden young minds, help them differentiate between fact and fiction, and read more than just their textbooks. The subjects of the published articles ranged from the humanities to science and current affairs. For SPARK, one article per day was published in TOI with topics ranging from current affairs, science & technology, sports, politics, social issues, global developments etc. Over a span of 3 months, these articles provided multi-dimensional perspectives to help get a deeper understanding of various interesting subjects. 
 
 
