BHANGAR: A makeshift dais to accommodate two persons was all they had to place on the ground 15 minutes before the meeting organised by protestors at Tapoban, bang opposite the Powergrid project on Thursday. It pulled crowds from the five villages — Khamarait, Machhibhanga, Tona Padmapukur, Shyamnagar, Bagdoba, Uriapara — making Trinamool leaders sit up and take note.

 The Bhangar meeting, organised by the Jami, Jibika, Paribesh O Bastutantra Raksha Committee, was different from the usual political rallies, where busloads of supporters are brought to the meeting spot. Instead, organisers felled logs and put up temporary guard walls on the Shyambazar-Haroa road to thwart any attack on protestors. “We did this in view of the overbearing terror in the area,” said Sk Azim, one of the organisers.
 
 
 Hours before the meeting, the police detained 12 persons, allegedly owing allegiance to CPI-ML (Red Star), at Belghoria station on their way to the meeting spot. They had come from Assam. Rally organiser Alik Chakrabarty (Red Star) rejected the police charge. “They have no affiliation to our party. They came from   to have first-hand knowledge of the power project, because a similar project has been proposed in Assam,” he said.
 
 Owner of seven cottah land at Gazipur Sk Jainal Abedin said the government has started installing poles to carry the 440 KV transmission cables over his land. “I was initially in favour of the project because officials told us that they would build a powerhouse here. But they didn’t stick to what they said. So, I am opposing the project now,” Abedin said. Haibul Dhali of Machhibhanga doesn’t know of any expert coming to the spot to explain them that the project won’t damage the environment.
 
 Opposition leaders Sujan Chakrabarty (CPM) Manoj Bhattacharya (RSP) Anuradha Patitunda (PDS) threw their weight behind the protestors Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee, however, said: “Left leaders are trying to fish in troubled waters.”.
 
 Meanwhile, in Hooghly’s Hirapur, a farmers’ agitation forced WBSEDCL officials to stop installation of posts to connect high-tension power lines to the power grid in Jangipara.
 
