Nagpur: The Scientific Society Hall witnessed a huge crowd of music enthusiasts during the concert titled ‘Dil dhundta hai: Essence of love, beauty and romance’ organized by Saptarang, on Sunday. The show started with a Hindi poem by host Nasir Khan as a tribute to legendary actress late Sridevi. It was followed by a medley of songs such as ‘Surmai aankhion se’, ‘Har kisi ko nahi milta’ and ‘Mere hato me nau nau chudiyan hai’ that featured Sridevi and was rendered by singers Manashri Joshi and Arti Buty, leaving the audience reminiscing. Beginning on a high note and setting the mood right, Vinay Kalikar and Joshi performed on the super hit song ‘Isharon isharon me’ from the movie ‘Kashmir ki Kali’. Artistes Sudhir Kunnawar and Joshi's rendition of the song ‘Gunguna rahe hai bhawarein’ was thoroughly enjoyed by the audience and the singers were cheered to sing it again. Songs ‘Gore rang pe itna na guman na kar’ and ‘Ajkal tere mere pyar ke’ sung by Manoj Joshi-Gauri Arora and Shashikant Waghmare-Buty duo respectively were the most loved songs of the evening. The singers also sang songs like ‘Wada karo nahi chodoge’, ‘Mai tuzse milne ayi’, ‘Yuhi tum muzse baat’, ‘Jai jai Shiv Shankar’ and others which won the hearts of the attendees. The programme had 24 duet songs. Majority of the presentations were of the melodies that featured popular actresses like Mumtaz, Sharmila Tagore and Asha Parekh who were known for creating a romantic aura. Anchor Khan engaged the audience with interesting anecdotes and beautiful shayaris in between the performances. Background score provided by the musicians made the songs sound even more captivating. Kunnawar, who conceptualized the show told TOI that Saptarang is a group of music lovers coming from various fields and have the aim to entertain people free of cost . “With time, we can now call ourselves near to professional as singers. We generally do not accept money but have decided to take up donations this year which will be donated to Dr Satish Gogulwar’s NGO Amhi Amchya Arogyasathi,” he said. Girish Gandhi, president of Vanrai Foundation, was the guest of honour. ends