NEW DELHI: The health ministry has decided to set up a campus   at  , New Delhi to ensure that all residents passing from the primary institute get placed in the hospital or new AIIMS-like institutions.  , union health minister, told TOI this is being done to check brain drain. “At present, many doctors who do not get a job in the New Delhi campus choose to join private institutions or go abroad. We want to retain our talent by consolidating all vacancies and making an advance offer,” he said.

 
 AIIMS is one of the finest medical institutions in the world, and the topmost in India. In 2006, the central government decided to set up AIIMS-like institutes in different parts of the country, so that people do not have to travel all the way to Delhi. Over the years, six new AIIMS have come up and 20 others are planned to be built.
 
 However, government sources said getting the best professionals to run the new AIIMS and maintain the quality associated with its brand remains a challenge. “AIIMS is a culture, a legacy that its students, faculty and administration have created over the last six decades. We want to employ the pass-outs from its parent institution so as to spread the same culture in newer institutions,” the health minister said.
 
 Dr  , president of AIIMS’ Resident Doctors’ Association said proper ideation on placement for institute doctors is need of the hour. “I am glad the government is thinking in this direction. We want to work with the institute but there are few vacancies and that too are notified over the year. If the government consolidate vacancies and declare them at the time of completion of senior residency, many students can benefit,” he said. Many doctors training at AIIMS are from other states, and the   president said, they would be happy serve in the new AIIMS-like institutions in their respective states as well.
 
 The six new AIIMS in Bhopal, Bhubaneshwar, Jodhpur, Patna, Raipur, Rishikesh are short of staff and the infrastructure is also less than satisfactory. But the government says that is an initial glitch and they were working towards making them institutions of national importance. “We are also starting a mentorship programme under which professors of eminence from AIIMS, New Delhi will be given the mandate to guide the upcoming AIIMS. There will be faculty and student exchange programmes on regular basis,” the health minister said.
 
 
