CHANDIGARH: Even as it hopes to mop up more revenue, the   government's excise   for 2018-19 approved on Tuesday promises to bring down prices of Indian made foreign   (IMFL) and country liquor by 15- 20%. This, despite the government deciding to bring down both the number of vends and annual quota. 

 Elaborating on the new policy, finance minister   said a liquor bottle that came with a price tag of Rs 250 will now cost Rs 180 to Rs 200 in the state. The state government hopes to earn Rs 6,000 crore from sale of liquor during the financial year, said Badal.
 
 Where the number of liquor vends will be reduced from 5,850 to 5,700, the quota will come down by over 30% from the previous year. The state hopes to generate more income by introducing more competition with draw of lots for allotment, more groups of smaller sizes and checking smuggling from neighbouring states, including Chandigarh, where prices were relatively less.
 
 Allotment through draw of lots for transparency
 
 This time, the excise department would also make allotment through draw of lots to bring greater transparency.
 
 The move is aimed at encouraging new, particularly smaller players, to enter the trade to ensure that the bidding process is not taken over by a group.
 
 Besides, to rule out cartelization of the liquor trade and keep liquor prices under control, it has been decided to slash the group size from Rs 40 crore to Rs 5 crore, thus increasing the number of groups from the current 84 to around 700 in the next fiscal.
 
 “After new parties showed interest in auction of vends, the trend of monopolization with the sale entity controlling distillation, wholesale and retail has only increased,” said an official. The group size, under the new policy, has been kept very small – at Rs 5 crore - with variation up to 25% to enable sufficient competition in the market, leading to reduced prices, said a spokesperson. Also, the excise duty has been levied instead of licence fee, special development fee and extra licence fee.
 
 If the target for the next fiscal is Rs 6,000 crore, for the current fiscal, the excise department expects to collect Rs 5,150 crore by the end of the financial year, as against Rs 4,400 crore collected during 2016-17.
 
 The policy also provides that leftover excess quota of 2017-18 be carried forward in the minimum guaranteed quota of 2018-19, subject to payment of the excise duty for 2018-19.
 
 To streamline things for the contractors, instead of levying cow cess per-bottle basis in urban areas, special licence fee of Rs 5 per pl on Punjab made liquor (PML) and IMFL will be levied both in the urban and rural areas so that equal   of liquor are maintained in the market. The fund so collected will be used for upkeep of cows and livestock.
 
 Excise incidence on all kinds of liquor has been suitably increased so as to secure government revenue and to prevent market prices from rising. Further, all L-2 licensees have been made eligible for grant of L-1 license and it will be a pre-requisite to have L-2 license in the district where L-1license is sought.
 
 The ex-distillery price (EDP) of PML has been fixed at Rs 254 per case, as against Rs 240 per case fixed last year. On the suggestion of the Chief Minister, the Cabinet decided to retain the ratio of Fixed: Open Quota of PML at 30:70 in order to encourage local distilleries from whom the licensed vends were obligated to pick up their quota.
 
 Settlement of quota will be on monthly basis, which will also help in removing the supply of excess liquor to bootleggers. Finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said prices of country liquor, which is sold the most in the state, will go down by 20%, but still the state government hopes to raise its income from excise by 800 crore this year.
 
 An official spokesperson of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) said it was hard to understand how the state government hoped to sell less liquor with lesser vends and reduced quota for contractors and still generate more income.
 
 Road safety activist Harman Sidhu pointed out that the excise policy was silent on the matter of issuing bills to customers following directions from the high court in this regard.
 
 
 
