Thiruvananthapuram: It was one man’s long cherished goal – to kill atleast one man in khaki uniform – that resulted in the brutal attack on a civil police officer at Neyyatinkara on Saturday night, jeopardising his career itself. The rural district police on Thursday arrested two of the main accused in connection with the attempt to murder of CPO Ratheesh. They were identified as Vishnu, 23, of Aaralummoodu and Deepak alias Pakki, 28, of Venpakal. Their arrests were recorded at Neyyatinkara police station. 

 It was on Saturday around 10.30pm CPO Ratheesh was attacked by a six-member gang that came on two motorcycles at Thannimmoodu near Neyyatinkara. Ratheesh was on crowd control duty there in connection with the procession as part of the festival at Kamukinkod Church near here. The gang attacked him using iron rods, causing serious fractures on both hands and backbone. 
 
 The police said that Vishnu was involved in numerous grave crime cases, including attempt to murder and assault. He possessed serious grudge towards the police as he was arrested and jailed every time he got involved in a case. Hence he was wanted to kill at least one policeman. 
 
 “Vishnu is an accused in the murder of Biju of Payatuvila in May last year. Before that he was involved in the attempt to murder on a youth in front of PSC office at Pattom in 2016,” said Neyyatinkara sub-inspector S Bijoy. The attack on the youth at Pattom was committed under the instructions of notorious goon Gundukad Sabu. Another serious offence he had allegedly committed is the rape of a minor girl. 
 
 On Saturday, Vishnu and gang had attacked two more persons before attacking CPO Ratheesh. The two were members of a music troupe, who had come to perform a concert as part of the festival. The police have also arrested one person, who was with the six-member gang, while attacking the musicians. The accused has been identified as Bibin of Kamukinkod. 
 
 The police said that the gang was literally on a rampage on Saturday. The person who was leading the gang was identified as Jijo. On Saturday, Jijo broke into a brawl with another man in a bar at Neyyatinkara, in which he received severe beating. Jijo summoned the other gang members to his residence to plan a retaliation. They attacked Ratheesh and the musicians on their way to track down the person, who beat up Jijo. 
 
 The remaining members of the gang are still absconding. The arrested were produced before the court and remanded in judicial custody. 
 
 
