Tirupati: Wild animal protection norms are being openly violated on   hills. Devotees going up the hill on foot were seen feeding wild animals at deer park though it is banned as per law. The forest department has put up boards warning of punitive action if the norms are violated but never implemented the same.

 According to the Indian Wildlife Protection Act 1972 Section 38J, disturbing animals by any means, including teasing, hurting and attempting to feed, is liable to a fine of up to Rs 25,000 and a jail term of up to 7 years. The forest wing of Tirumala Tirupati Devastanam (TTD) has put up the boards saying the same on the pedestrian pathway up the hill.
 
 Forest officials have washed their hands of the problem by only putting up the boards. Enforcement of the act was abysmally low as not even a single case was registered in this regard, according to wild life enthusiasts. Ratnakar from Tirupati, who has been doing research in wildlife, observed that forest officials were not bothered to deploy a person to stop devotees from feeding the animals. 
 
 The deer park used to have nearly 400   about five years ago, but the number has come down to around 100 now. Many of the animals have died because of deceases they contracted from consumption of external food fed by the devotees, said Ratnakar. Apart from deer, the forest also has many types of birds, grey langurs and monkeys.
 
 Unaware of the consequences and just for the sake of fun, devotees used to throw food items like tamarind rice, chips, kurkure and other confectioneries at the animals. Some of them do it just for fun and for taking selfies.
 
 Dr Goutam, a veterinary doctor, said that feeding the ruminants with processed food like chips, kurkure, confectioneries and rice was not at all advisable. He said the digestive system of the animals was not accustomed to these kinds of food and they could end up losing their lives if they developed acid indigestion condition. Though it is not life threatening, feeding fruits to animals was not advisable as the animals, over a period, develop a tendency to wait for someone to feed them fruits instead of searching for food themselves, he said.
 
 
