CHENNAI: Following the International Tennis Federation’s (ITF) proposal on Monday to make radical changes to the Davis Cup, there is a shroud of doubt regarding its future. If the proposal from the ITF were to go through at their AGM in August, the Davis Cup – which is currently in its 107th edition – will be changed into a World Cup-style week-long event in November starting from next year. Instead of playing home and away ties through the year, the top 18 nations will gather at one venue to compete in a round-robin format with the top eight progressing to the knockouts.

 
 While the proposed shake-up has drawn mixed reactions from the players, former India Davis Cupper   is among those who are not in favour of the changes. “Every sport is coming up with different formats. People said the same thing about cricket when T20 came in. Purists did not like it. I am a purist. I think it’s very similar with tennis. Personally, I’m not a fan of it. The Davis Cup is special. To spread it out over the year keeps fans engaged all over the world. To do it over one week might take some of the fans away. The unique thing about the Davis Cup is there are eight matches held in eight different countries in the first round,” said Somdev, who took part in the Chennai Open Golf Championship’s Pro-Am event here on Wednesday.
 
 According to Somdev, however, the one silver lining with the new proposal is the potential availability of all the top players for the tournament. “The Davis Cup schedule makes it tough for all the top players to be available. That is why we have seen the likes of  ,  ,   miss so many Davis Cups over the years. Every single top player has given it a miss at some point or the other. Such a format will make it easier to have all the top players available. That seems to be the thinking of the ITF behind the change,” added the 33-year-old, who made his Davis Cup debut for India in 2008.
 
 In his role as tennis’ national observer, Somdev has also been in the spotlight recently for his decision to exclude India’s top-ranked women’s player   from the Target Olympic Podium (TOP) scheme. In response, he said: “I really hope Ankita proves me wrong and goes on to do well for the country. I was just making an objective decision. I don’t think Ankita will make the Olympics in 2020 considering her ranking and past results. I wasn’t trying to demean her. Of all the things wrong with Indian tennis right now, selection of the TOP scheme is the last thing we need to be worried about.”
 
