CHANDIGARH: Even though the announcement of re-evaluation comes as a relief for many students, especially Class XII students of  , Sector 27 and Government Senior Secondary School, Sector 23, the lengthy process will hinder those who want to apply in Delhi University. A number of students of these two schools scored poorly in the English paper. 

 The expensive three-step process has not been well-received by parents and students. Admission in DU begins on June 19 and the result will be announced after that.
 
 Nitin Jain, a parent from Bhavan Vidyalaya said, “It is definitely a welcome move. But we, parents and students, are not relieved as the date to apply for re-evaluation is very late. Universities like DU announce cut-off by June end. This move will be fruitful only when the process of re-evaluation is completed before that. The process given on the CBSE website comprises three levels and is lengthy. The option of direct re-evaluation would be better. They should prepone re-evaluation dates in view of university admissions. Also, they are charging at every step.” His son scored 74 marks against his expectation of 94.
 
 Kreetika, sister of  , a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya said even though the decision comes as a relief, the process is discouraging. “I am sure his marks will increase after re-evaluation but the process is lengthy and costly. It will get in the way of those who want to avail the opportunity to apply for graduation courses in Delhi University, which is the first choice for my brother and most of his friends,” she said.   scored 84 marks in English against his expectation of 95 to 96.
 
 Parents alleged that CBSE adopted the lengthy process only to make money. Brijmohan, whose daughter scored 69 marks, expected 96. “By making re-evaluation such a lengthy and costly process, CBSE is discouraging students and earning money. Re-evaluation is the right of students so why pay so much for the mistake of CBSE teachers? Will the board take action against teachers who made the mistake?” She averred. 
 
 Late on Thursday evening, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) announced that students can apply for re-evaluation, a process they had stopped last year. 
 
 On Thursday morning, Punjab and Haryana High Court issued a notice to CBSE as 18 parents of Bhavan Vidyalaya students approached the high court urging CBSE to start re-evaluation.
 
 The board announced that students can apply for re-evaluation for any subject/subjects from June 1 to June 5, the result of which will be declared on June 14.
 
 
