If I, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to do it to one another. For I have given you an example…’

 Thus spake Jesus Christ. The rite of foot washing observed on Maundy Thursday, which is inspired by this Bibilical verse, is symbolic of Jesus washing the feet of his 12 disciples prior to the Last Supper. It brings to mind a predictable image — a line of men whose feet get washed and kissed by a priest in church. Thanks to Pope Francis, for the past two years, the image is getting an inclusive, modern twist with women also in the frame. In Kerala, many churches followed suit, though discordant voices were also heard. This year too, the Latin Church included women in the rite at a much larger scale across the State. On  , we take a close look at the history of the tradition in Kerala, how it changed over time and its contemporary significance. 
 
 
 
 It was a Goan priest who introduced it to Kerala, says historian Fr Dr Xavier Koodopuzha. “Before the historical Synod of Diamper (Udayamperoor Sunnahados) in 1599, the Archbishop of Goa, Aleixo de Menezes, did the   to showcase humility. Inspired by him, the Syrian Christians of Kerala started to organise the ceremony. For 297 years in which the Portuguese ruled the Marthoma Christians, it went on and continued even after indigenous metropolitans took over. That’s how we still have this tradition in Kerala churches,” he says. 
 
 While the credit for including women in the rite goes to Pope Francis after he did it in 2016, very few seem to remember that a priest in Kerala had done it, exactly three decades ago. Dr Babu Paul IAS, who has written about it in one of his books, says, “Fr Culas, who has served as the vicar of a diocese under the Latin archdiocese of Thiruvananthapuram, washed the feet of women first in 1988, and did it for three years consecutively, to promote gender justice. In the third year, about 15 people, out of the 400 parishioners, complained to Archbishop Soosa Pakiam against him. The Archbishop told the priest that being a Bible scholar, he did not find anything wrong with the practice, but he wanted to leave it to Fr Culas’ conscience as to whether a possible division in church should be entertained.” Fr Culas was also transferred to a different diocese in the following year. He did not continue it in the new church fearing opposition. 
 
 
 
 While the Latin Church embraced the Pope’s model, the Syro Malabar church, like many other factions, did not follow suit. However, inspired by the Pope and the Bible, Fr Jose Vailikodath, a Syro Malabar priest of Thrikkakara parish, washed women’s feet in 2016. But he did not follow it up later. “There was tremendous official pressure and a circular urged us not to do it. Personally, I don’t believe in discriminating against women. I followed what St Paul said in Galatians 3.28 of the Bible, about equality. I am sure the Pope also might have been inspired by the Bible to include women in this rite,” says Fr Jose.
 Each of the churches follow a different tradition and that’s also why women are kept away from it in certain churches, says Dr Xavier. “There are 23 church communities under the Catholic church. Though the faith is basically the same, there are tremendous differences in customs, from prayers to costumes and they are also given the freedom to follow their own traditions,” he explains. 
  
 
 
 Of late, groups like Indian Christian Women’s Movement (ICWM) have been organising the ritual in Kerala involving women, to bring gender justice. Kochurani Abraham of the group says, “While our aim is not to work against the church, we believe in gender equality and want to bring it into as many spheres, including this rite. In the foot washing ceremony we organised this year, we had couples who washed each other’s feet, to establish this.”
 Many youngsters believe that there is no logic in keeping women out of such a rite. Kesia M, a Plus Two student in Kottayam who took part in the rite last year, says, “Jesus asked to treat everyone equally through this rite, regardless of wealth or social status. Why find a way to discriminate in the name of gender?”
 
 The practice has tremendous contemporary significance too, according to Fr Eugiene Periera from Thiruvananthapuram. “It’s a means to recognise the service women also have been offering to the church for years together. Moreover, it’s time we spread the message of equality as well. When the church took the initiative first, there were a few voices of opposition but gradually, people began understanding it and it’s all taken positively now.”
 
