PATIALA: Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) president   has written Prime Minister   to have the “unofficial ban on the entry of Sikhs into Gurdwara Gurudongmar in Sikkim”. Members of the Sikh community have alleged that efforts were being made to take control of the gurdwara and build a Buddhist monastery at the site.

 SGPC-controlled Gurdwara Singh Sabha at Siliguri had filed a petition in the Sikkim high court in August 2017, after some local residents had shifted Guru   from the Gurdwara Gurudogmar to Gurdwara Chung Thang. They alleged that boards and signs showing Guru Nanak Dev’s visit had been changed to Padmasambhava’s foray in the area and a new shop had been opened in the gurdwara complex.
 
 SGPC also claimed that after accepting the petition, the Sikkim high court had ordered status quo in the matter. It claimed no ban was imposed on the Sikhs from visiting the gurdwara that usually remained open from April-end to July every year.
 
 Gurdwara Chung Thang is situated at an altitude of 5,000 feet above sea level whereas Gurdwara Gurudogmar is 18,000 ft above the sea level. It takes around six hours to cover the distance of 92km between both gurdwaras. SGPC alleged without any knowledge of the Sikhs, Guru Granth Sahib had been shifted to Gurudwara Chung Thang in August 2017, and statues of Gautam Buddha and some other pictures were installed inside the gurdwara.
 
 The Sikh community also gave reference of several books including ‘Guru Khalsa Twarikh, Guru 1’ written by theologian Gian Singh in 1892, who mentioned that local residents in Gurudongmar had explained him in the details and gave proof of the visit of Guru Nanak, who made a journey to Tibet, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim in the 16th century.
 
 SGPC has also appointed a three-member committee comprising its executive member Rajinder Singh Mehta and Colonel Dalwinder Singh Garewal (retired), who were recently allowed to move on the roads towards Gurudongmar.
 
 Col Garewal, who served for 10 years in Sikkim out of his 32 years in the Indian Army, said an undeclared ban had been imposed on the Sikhs’ entry by the locals in connivance with the administration in Sikkim whereas no case was registered over the desecration of the gurdwara and its relics. He alleged taxi rates had gone up three times for the Sikh pilgrims and special instructions to the drivers had been given to avoid ferrying any Sikh.
 
 “Drivers are threatened not to take Sikhs to Gurdwara Gurudongmar Sahib while those who dare the local lamas are beaten up. At the Gurdwara Chung Thang, all relics related to Guru Nanak’s visit have been taken away by the locals,” Col Garewal alleged.
 
