MUMBAI:   has revised procedures again to fix responsibility on officials issuing licences to hotels after the   blaze, which killed 14 persons, exactly a month back. Eateries, allegedly in league with civic officials, had “taken shelter behind the curtain of the ease of doing business policy”, which speeded up approvals and minimized processes, to get permissions. BMC departments had also passed the buck for allowing 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro to function despite violations.

 The   Mills inquiry report by civic chief   recommended that officials cannot take shelter under the ‘ease of doing business’ policy to justify laxity in rule enforcement and compliance.
 
 According to the new rules (a copy of which is with TOI) for granting eating house licences under section 394 of BMC Act, some checks and balances are being introduced to make both BMC staff and the applicant more accountable without delaying the process.
 
 To start with, an application has to be submitted to the medical officer of health of the ward, who will refer it to the assistant engineer and chief fire officer for inputs. The assistant engineer (building & factory) has to check if any notices are pending, like if the premises are dilapidated, and submit his remarks to the medical officer within 10 days of the application.
 
 In case of a delay, a showcause notice has to be given by the assistant commissioner of the ward to the assistant engineer on why scrutiny was not carried out in 10 days, followed by a departmental enquiry.
 
 Simultaneously, the application also has to be forwarded to the station officer of the fire prevention cell. Only if fire safety parameters are satisfactory, should an   be granted by the station officer to the medical officer. When the applicant submits a compliance report, he should upload photographs of the premises to show compliance, mentioning a date.
 
 Finally, health staff have to carry out an inspection and report compliance. The proposal will then be processed, and after approval of the assistant commissioner, fees will be generated. Also, the chief fire officer has to carry out random inspections of premises issued licences. Those found non-fire compliant have to be stripped of their licences. A senior civic official said, “The revised procedures could put a full stop to officials passing the buck, which happened after the mill fire.”
 
