 Minister of Power, New and Renewable Energy, R K Singh on Wednesday flagged off the   in India. 

 In line with the Government of India’s vision of 100 per cent e-mobility by 2030, Energy Efficiency Services Ltd ( ) will issue a fresh tender for additional 10,000 e-vehicles, Singh announced. 
 
 Following the successful completion of the first tender -- procuring 10,000 e-vehicles last year -- EESL envisions a growing demand from various government departments. And the new tender for 10,000 e-vehicles will cater to this growing demand. 
 
 With these 20,000  , India is expected to save over 5 crore litres of fuel every year leading to a reduction of over 5.6 lakh tonnes of annual CO2 emission.
 
 "India has embarked on an ambitious e-mobility plan and the government has taken the leadership in enabling e-mobility in India. The National E-Mobility Programme is a step towards ushering in an era of clean, green and future-oriented technologies in the country," Singh Said while flagging off the Tata Tigor EV (electric vehicle) form EESL's first tender.
 
 
 
 
 "After the successful tender of 10,000 electric cars last year, the demand for e-vehicles is constantly rising across various departments of the Union and State Governments. To cater to the growing demand, EESL will issue a fresh tender tomorrow for procuring additional 10,000 electric cars. This second tender is a testimony to the fact that India offers a huge market potential for e-mobility," Singh added.
 
 Commenting on the EV Adoption, Ajay Kumar Bhalla, Secretary, Ministry of Power, said, "E-mobility is a critical aspect of overall achievement of Energy Efficiency and the Government of India is committed towards it. The launch today is a step towards reducing our carbon footprint and promise towards a more sustainable, greener, cleaner future. Adoption of EVs has given India an opportunity to bring together a holistic plan which marries “Make in India” Initiative to promote indigenous production of e- vehicles and create a booming market for ancillary industries."
 
 EESL plans to leverage efficiencies of scale and drive down costs through its innovative business model while supporting local manufacturing facilities, gaining technical competencies for the long-term growth of the EV industry and enabling Indian EV manufacturers to emerge as major global players.
 
 Announcing yet another milestone, Shri R K Singh said, “Under the Government of India’s Street Light National Programme (SLNP), EESL has replaced 50 lakh conventional streetlights across the country with energy-efficient LED lights. This is the largest installation anywhere in the world illuminating around 84 thousand kilometres of roads, with no upfront investment required from municipal bodies. The newly installed lights have led to brighter streets, feeling of enhanced safety and security among the residents and motorists. This has led to energy saving of 135 crore kWh and cost saving of INR 742 crores every year”
 
 The mass procurement helped EESL to get the LED streetlights at a reduced cost of Rs 70/watt, against the standard price of Rs 135/watt. The lights conform to BIS specification and carry a 7-year warranty against technical defects, EESL said in a statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
