HYDERABAD: A private school in the city terminated the services of 16 teachers for allegedly failing to get new students for the next academic year. According to the teachers employed with  ,  , the school authorities first deducted Rs 1,000 from their salaries for being unable to fulfil their target of securing five  , and subsequently fired them.

 However, school authorities claimed that the teachers were sacked because they were not up to the mark.
 
 The teachers alleged that all 16 of them were sacked without any explanation whatsoever for their dismissal.
 
 An English teacher, who was expelled in February, said, “Neither was I given a termination letter nor were my original certificates handed over to me. One fine day, they just told me it was my last working day and I should leave soon after.” This happened after a deduction from her salary.
 
 Another teacher said, “I have been teaching in the same institute for 14 years. Yet, the authorities abruptly told me one day that my services were not needed any more.”
 
 School authorities vehemently denied the allegation about teachers being given targets for new admissions and said they were sacked because they were not up to the mark.
 
 “The teachers were given many opportunities to improve, but they did not make any effort and started taking the job for granted. We wanted to sack them in August last year, but on grounds of humanity waited till March-April. We have fired them now, so that finding a job will be easier for them in the new academic year,” said Chaitanya J, CEO of the school, adding that they have 12,000 teachers working under them in 25 schools.
 
 While he admitted that this branch of the chain of schools has not been in the pink of health, with just about 400-450 students enrolled, he maintained that the poor show had nothing to do with the teachers losing their jobs.
 
 The district education officer said that she had received a complaint from the teachers. “The deputy DEO was asked to look into the issue. The school will be issued a show cause notice and, if proven guilty, might lose its recognition,” said  . She stated that deputing teachers for canvassing was against government rules.
 
 
