LUCKNOW/BAREILLY: Furious at a question in the English paper of the   exams, which asked students to write a letter describing the “laxity” of primary school teachers in performing their duties, primary teachers of the state have decided to wear black arm bands in protest, with at least one district unit calling for a boycott of exam invigilation duties.
 
  A question, for five marks, for the exam on February 21 asked students to write a letter to the district magistrate about the laxity of primary teachers in performing their duties. Demanding immediate action against authorities who framed the question,   president Vinay Singh said, “This is a deliberate move to defame primary teachers. It raises questions about the paper setter’s mentality.”
  
  The Bareilly unit of UP Junior High School Teachers’ Association on Saturday asked teachers performing duties of invigilators in UP board exams to boycott it from Monday onwards. Of the total 1,900 teachers of basic education department performing duties in UP boards in Bareilly, over 600 are of junior high schools.
  
   , Bareilly district president, UP JHSTA said, “The question depicts us as lazy and careless. We conducted a meeting on Saturday and decided that junior high schools’ teachers will boycott invigilation duty from Monday and will write to the CM about this.”
  
  Gangwar added, “Apart from teaching duties, we participate in various government programmes and have been helping   in conducting transparent exams.”
  
  Bareilly district inspector of school ( ) Achal Kumar Mishra said, “I spoke to the secretary of secondary education board over the phone and she has assured me that action will be taken against people who have prepared the question paper. The teachers only want to send their message to the authorities concerned and will not go ahead with the exam boycott.”
  
  Yogesh Tyagi, state president of UP Junior High School Teachers’ Association said, “On Saturday, I wrote to chief minister   to demand strict action against those involved in setting question paper. I have asked teachers across the state to tie black bands for three days starting from Monday to register their protest. If no action is taken in the matter, we will launch an agitation.”
  
  Tyagi added, “Nearly 70% of teachers of basic education department teachers help secondary education department in conducting UP board exams. They cannot conduct exams without our help but we are being humiliated with such questions in exams.”
  
  Secretary, UP Secondary Education Board, Neena Srivastava told TOI that it was unfortunate to have such a question in the paper. “I will find out how this type of question was set by experts and then passed by moderators. Action will be taken after that. We have no intention to degrade or discourage anyone,” Srivastava said
