NAGPUR: As residents of Mhaswad village in   district were grappling with drought over a decade back, 60-year-old   Sargar and her like-minded decided to lift the morale of farmers through poetry, bhajans and abhangs. And their idea clicked as the villagers started to find some solace in the otherwise grim situation.

 Kerabai’s passion for singing was soon spotted by Maandeshi Local Radio for which she worked as a radio jockey. To celebrate her achievements, Yashwantrao Chavan Pratishthan felicitated her at a function held at Baburao Dhanwate Hall on Friday. She was honoured by farmer leader Vijay Jawandhia.
 
 Sarah Shafique, Harishchandra Borkar and Shivaji Rao Yadav were the guests at the function. 
 
 In an open interview, Kerabai shared many anecdotes and real life stories. She revealed how, as a child, she was into singing devotional songs. When she saw the hoarding of a radio show being organized by  , she went to the organizers and expressed her desire to sing. Impressed by her presentation, she was appointed as a radio jockey.
 
 While interacting with people on the radio show, Kerabai gradually started discussing social issues that made her popular. Kerabai said that listeners found in her a voice which could take up various issues and help them out. It was her profession, said Kerabai, which helped her appear on Amitabh Bachchan’s popular television show Kaun Banega Crorepati last year.
 
 In his introductory speech, Anil Indane said people usually imagine a radio jockey as someone who is smart-looking and fluent in language. “But salute to Kerabai’s confidence who has achieved her goals under unfavourable circumstances and despite having a poor financial background. She has had no schooling, but she learnt everything orally. She may be illiterate but she is a role model for many,” he said. 
 
 Talking about her venture, Shafique discussed how her husband   and she set out to buy vegetables, process them and export them to Dubai. “We realized that we have many rivers in India, fruits and vegetables. Outside, there is taste, but no nutritive value as in India, especially Vidarbha. We need to value our own assets,” she said.
 
 Girish Gandhi said that Kerabai is a ray of hope at a time when many work areas are experiencing negativity. She has shown what an illiterate woman is capable of. He also said that he will soon start a regional radio station to promote Varhadi language. 
 
 Jawandhia asked, “What is education? True education is reading between the lines. It is to be able to understand issues and resolve them.” He appreciated Kerabai for her creativity and imagination and added that radio is a powerful tool which has the ability to touch people’s lives.
 
 
