NAGPUR: A city-based doctor has knocked Nagpur bench of Bombay high court’s doors seeking quashing or staying the central admission process (CAP) for postgraduate (MD/MS/Diploma Courses) admissions in private and unaided medical institutes across Maharashtra for 2018-19. He also demanded to start the entire process afresh.

 A single-judge vacation bench of justice Murlidhar Giratkar on Tuesday issued notices to the respondents, including   and drugs, asking them to reply within a week. The Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), state CET cell, MUHS and Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College ( ) in Amravati are other respondents.
 
 The next hearing is fixed on May 15 in front of justice Rohit Deo, who would be replacing justice Giratkar.
 
 Pratap Nagar resident Dr Rohit Kate, who secured state merit rank of 3095 in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET-2018) for PG medical seats, has filed a petition through counsel Uday Dastane.
 
 Admissions to government, private and unaided medical colleges in the state are conducted through CAP by DMER, where the aspirants have to give their choice preferences initially, which are not subject to change.
 
 During hearing, Dastane pointed out that this year, barring two, none of the private and unaided colleges participated in CAP as they refused to comply with the fees stipulated by the Fee Regulatory Authority (FRA). For private institutions, FRA had earlier capped the fees to not more than three times that of the aided institutions, to which only two had agreed.
 
 The petitioner applied through CAP and was allotted MS (Ortho) in PDMC in the first round on April 5. As per CAP notification, a candidate could upgrade his/her choice in the second round only after taking admission to the seat allotted in the first round. Those failing to do so were to be barred from the subsequent rounds.
 
 After the first round, a new schedule for fees was notified by FRA that raised the capping to five times of the regular fees. It was later agreed upon by the non-participating private colleges, which eventually participated in the CAP rounds.
 
 The DMER, however, issued a notification for the second round in which re-filling of preferences was granted even to those who didn’t get any allotment in the first round.
 
 Dr Kate contended that as he had been allotted a seat in the first round, he was ineligible for choices that were added later in the second round notified on May 6. Additionally, candidates much lower in merit were allotted seats that were preferred by him, but were not open to him in first round. This, according to the petitioner, was grave injustice to the merit of his candidature, committed due to indecision of the authorities.
 
 
