CHANDIGARH: A fatal tragedy may soon hit the General Self-Financing Housing Scheme, 2008 in Sector 63 as   (CHB) has failed to fix the issue of water percolating into pits of lifts installed in the complex which houses around 5,000 people.

 According to official figures, there are 70 lifts which cater to one-bed-room-kitchen (BHK) flats and 2 BHK flats. The pits of 15 lifts out of these are water-logged.
 
 The officials of resident welfare association claim that the level of water in all the lifts is above one-feet. The associations of 1-BHK and 2-BHK had taken over the possession of the lifts from the board in 2016. Ashwani Kumar, president of 1-BHK Flats association claimed that the water had started seeping into the pit soon after they took over the possession and the same was brought to the notice of the authorities but nothing has been done in this regard so far.
 
 As per the report of   (CGWB), shallow aquifers in the southern sectors are in the range of 2 to 17 metres below ground level (mbgl).
 
 Shushil Dogra, a structure consultant, said that the water levels are quite shallow in the Southern sectors. “Special attention to details has to be paid during the construction,” he said.
 
 Dogra termed the faulty architecture as the primary reason for water logging.
 
 “While construction, the laid down norms might have been ignored, resulting to water leaking into the pits. All the walls have to be made of concrete and proper water proofing has to be done. It appears that these norms were not followed,” said Dogra.
 
 HS Grewal, president of 2-BHK Flats association, accused the board of dragging its feet over the issue since last two years. “Whenever we raise the issue, the board sends a team to clean the pits, which ar4e filled with water again in no time. They have failed to resolve the problem,” rued Grewal.
 
 The associations have lodged a complaint with the   in which they have maintained that the board officials should be held responsible if any untoward incident takes place.
 
 
 
 
 The housing project was marred by several controversies. The central   (CBI) had initiated an investigation into claims of use of sub-standard material by contractor for favouring a construction company and violation of Central Public Works Department (CPWD) manual 2012. The initial project, a multi-storey executed by the board, was also hit by delays.
 
 
