NAGPUR: It has been 25 years since the Constitution of India was amended to include Panchayat Raj Institutions (PRIs) and Urban Local Governments (ULGs) in the federal system. To celebrate the silver jubilee of the 73rd and 74th Constitution Amendment Acts of 1993, a special one-day conference was held at Dr Ambedkar College on Thursday.

 The programme was jointly organized by the State Election Commission (SEC), the office of divisional commissioner, Nagpur Municipal Corporation, Nagpur University (NU) and six Zilla Parishads (ZPs) under the Nagpur revenue division.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, divisional commissioner  , secretary of SEC Shekhar Channe, NU vice-chancellor SP  , president of  , municipal commissioner   and MLC Anil Sole were present for the inauguration of the conference.
 
 The 73rd and 74th Constitution amendments were a pivotal point for Indian democracy as it provided constitutional status to the gram panchayats, municipal councils and corporations enabling them to function as democratic units of self-governance.
 
 For the first time, local bodies can hold elections regularly, every five years, the same as assembly and Lok Sabha polls. Prior to the amendments, the local bodies were at the behest of state governments for policy decisions. State ECs in the country were formed to overlook elections in PRIs and ULGs after the amendments.
 
 The amendments also paved way for 50% representation of women in elections which was laid down by many state ECs. Jichkar said, “50% representation for women is a victory. Many women in villages all across have come out to form policies because of these amendments.”
 
 “In a family, religion and even marriage, we can see that democracy doesn’t exist. Many countries are still struggling for democracy. But we as a nation have able to become the second most effective democracy after the US. Our people have adapted to the Indian interpretation of democracy and have been successful,” said Kumar.
 
 Kane likened Indian democracy to the ‘gulab jamun’ while describing it reaching the grassroots. He said, “Democracy is the syrup which still hasn’t reached the very core of our society yet. Just like a gulab jamun unless the syrup reaches its centre the item is not termed to be sweet. We need to examine whether each person is properly represented in respective governments.”
 
 “Thanks to these laws, elections at the gram panchayat level are carried out in the same manner and transparency as LS elections,” said Channe. He added that the SEC is improving transparency during elections by publicly publishing affidavits of the contesting candidates.
 
 
