BHOPAL: The   (BMHRC) set up to provide speciality care to gas victims is turning down critical patients and stopped supply of medicines to them. 

 In 2010, finding 1984 gas disaster victims more prone to deadly diseases such as cancer and renal failure, the Union cabinet sub-committee on Bhopal announced an additional compensation of Rs 2 lakh to the seriously ill victims with cancer or renal failure.
 
 Many such victims also contributed money from their own sources after finding a kidney donor from the family also went in for transplant in Mumbai or Indore.
 
 The gas relief department did not reimburse any money for kidney transplant. BMHRC however provided them monthly medicines that they had to take for the rest of their lives. 
 
  Shamina, a resident of Qazi Camp and one such patient. "We were given Rs 1.50 lakh from the Rs 2 lakh extra compensation after deducting Rs 50,000 for some unknown reason in 2010. We arranged some more money and my mother donated one of her kidneys and my transplant surgery took place at   in Mumbai," Shamina said.
 
 "We had exhausted all the money that we had but there was one solace. Post-transplant medicines were being provided by BMHRC all these years. But, not anymore. We are being forced to spend Rs 10,000 to Rs 12,000 per month in purchasing medicines. They are essential to keep the transplanted kidney going but nobody is listening to us," said the 36-year-old woman.
 
 "My brother tried talking to everyone in the department of health and research, which runs the hospital , but to no avail, Shamina said, while talking to TOI.
 
 Shamina is not the lone person who is complaining. There are 36 kidney transplant patients registered with BMHRC and all of them are facing the same ordeal. "It's a very bad situation. They don't even have multi-vitamin capsules or iron pills. Once we had all the arrangements here, from competent doctors to ready supply of medicines. But, now there is nobody in the nephrology department and we are purchasing medicines worth thousands of rupees on our own", said  , who had undergone kidney transplant at Choithram hospital in Indore.
 
 "There are some medicines, which we used to provide through local purchase (LP) system, but we don't have funds for the purchase of such medicines through LP", said a BMHRC staff employed with its e-store section.
 
 Prabha Desikan, the acting director of the hospital said, there has been delegation of some financial powers recently and we are making arrangement for their medicines.
 
 Purnendu Shukla, a member of the SC monitoring committee formed by the apex court to ensure proper care of victims in gas relief hospitals including BMHRC, admitted on Tuesday that they have received complaints about non-availability of medicines for kidney transplant patients.
 
 "We have taken initiatives for the purchase of medicines for the nephrology department last month, but some problem seems to have cropped up yet again. We shall look into the issue tomorrow", said Shukla.
 
 
