LUCKNOW: UP’s Special Task Force (STF) plans to pin down education-mafia, which facilitate mass copying in UP state board exams, through electronic surveillance. This is part of a strategy to be put in place by STF personnel ahead of the UP board examinations. The move comes after UP government sought help from STF to conduct cheating free examinations, scheduled from February 6.

 TOI on Saturday had reported that UP government has decision to rope in STF to curb the menace of organised mass copying in UP board exams. Education officials said STF personnel will be provided with a list of schools where students come only to take the exams, and not to attend classes. These schools, which are mostly private, become centres for rampant cheating when they function as examination centres. Officials said STF personnel will be present in the periphery of “notorious” exam centres and will cordon off entry and exit points. They will also assist flying squads deployed to check use of unfair means.
 
 
 IG STF   told TOI: “We will keep an eye on education-mafia during the board exams. We had a meeting with deputy chief minister and we are in the process of drafting our strategy to crack down on education-mafia and ensure students are not harrassed.’’
 
 Notorious districts like Meerut, Aligarh, Agra, Gonda, Sant Kabirnagar, Balrampur, will be under the radar of STF. UP   Board has, this year, announced 67% of UP’s 75 districts as ‘sensitive’ for class X and XII UP board exams. In fact, the number of districts earning the dubious distinction has jumped to 50 from 31last year.
 
 Mass copying has been reported from districts like Aligarh, Agra, Mainpuri, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Kanpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Bahraich, Etawah, Ghazipur, Balia, Azamgarh and many others which are put under the `sensitive’ and `highly-sensitive’ zone.
 
 According to officials, mass copying starts right from the time of online registration of students enrolled in class 9th and 11th. Education-mafia, who are mostly managers of private (self-finance) colleges, ensure “sure success” for students by charging a high `fee’.
 
 From running fake institutions to mass copying on contract, the education mafia play with students’ future. The nexus that runs the racket involves political bigwigs behind whom the mafia scurry for cover when exposed.
 
 This year, 67.29 lakh students have registered, 6.68 lakh more than those who registered in 2017. While 37,12,508 students have registered for class X exams, 30,17,032 have registered for  
 
