AHMEDABAD: Amit (name changed), a class XII student, can’t concentrate while studying. When he called   helpline (1800 233 3330) on Monday, he wanted to know how to study as when he takes a book in hand and starts reading, everything seems new. Another caller, parent of a class X girl, complains that she frequently reports upset stomach and has become a bit short-tempered.

 A helpline official said 66 per cent of the calls are from boys and the rest from girls.
 
 Pravin  , inspector of   police and coordinator for the helpline, says that as examinations drew closer, the number of calls shot up. “For the past few days, we have been receiving over 175 calls daily. The callers are from both city and rural areas and both students and parents approach us with their queries. We have deployed a team of trained psychologists who can guide callers about matters related to education,” he said.
 
 Valera said that primarily the calls talk about one type of anxiety or another. “Frequent symptoms are manifested as fear of not remembering important points, not being able to finish the paper or simply not being able to concentrate. We provide tips to the students to improve concentration and ask them to give their best shot without worrying about the outcome,” he said.
 
 The   helpline that took off from March 1 has received over 3,500 calls till March 5. A J Shah, chairman of GSHSEB, said that the purpose of the helpline is to dispel myths and instil confidence in the students before the examination.
 
 “Many straightaway ask if there is any important material from which they can read and get passing marks. The Achilles’ heel for majority of the students is Science, Mathematics and English. Almost an equal number of parents call up to to learn of any last-minute short-cuts or which pen to prefer for writing the exam,” said a counsellor with the helpline.
 
 He added that calls from rural areas are higher in number as they have fewer venues to approach to clear doubts compared to their urban counterparts.
 
 
