BENGALURU: Having pitched for an independent flag for  , the   government may be forced to put a formal decision on hold till the assembly elections as pro-Kannada outfits remain divided over its design. 

 Many from the nine-member committee set up by the government to design the flag and provide it a statutory standing told TOI that with no legal hurdles, a favourable recommendation for such a symbol is likely to be submitted to chief minister   in a week or 10 days, along with at least three shortlisted designs. 
 
 The committee met last week but was unable to arrive at a decision, with two issues still pending for final consideration.   ( ) chairperson  , one of the members, said: "Most things have already been discussed. We're meeting again because we didn't want to rush into a decision. We want to accommodate all points of view especially on the design front and submit a report."
 
 Another member said the panel would seek an appointment with Siddaramaiah later this week to submit the report. "While there are no legal hurdles to having a flag, the law department has submitted a report on what procedures need to be followed while implementing it. As far as we see, we should be able to submit a final report in 10 days," the member said.
 
 Since differences over the design remain, the committee is likely to submit all options before the government. A final decision, however, may have to wait till the elections as pro-Kannada activists are at loggerheads.
 
 
 
 
 Kannada Paksha, a registered political party, has claimed rights over the yellow-and-red flag which has become synonymous with Kannada identity. Pro-Kannada activists have said they would launch a protest if anything but the yellow-and-red flag is usedfor the state.
 
 “It would be ideal if we got the yellow-andred flag, but if that’s not possible, we are okay with another option that includes these two colours,” KRV president Narayana Gowda said. Among the options before the panel is introduction of a third colour, as reported first by TOI on November 6, 2017.
 
 Political leverage? The CM has been refuting allegations from BJPthat his government is using people’s emotions to gain political leverage. BJP MP B Sriramulu too raised the issue in Parliament in December. The minister of state in the home ministry had said that nothing has come to the Centre’s noticeso far.
 
 “Different organizations have their own flag, but it is not the same for a state. There are procedures and a proper methodology to go about such decisions. So far, nothing has reached us (the Centre) officially,” Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda told TOI.
 
 
 
