SHIVAMOGGA: Two letters to the Prime Minister in nearly six months on the dilapidated condition of a state-run primary school in Shivamogga have unlocked Rs 36 lakh and a possible new lease of life for the institution. Villagers of Kunchenahalli are now thanking Hanumantha Nayak, an alumnus and a former teacher of the   at Kunchenhalli near Shivamogga, for sending those letters and getting the district education officers to act. 

  Nayak was so disturbed at the condition of his alma mater that he wrote the first letter to Prime Minister   seeking help. His concern-filled letter, written in June last year, paid off with the PMO directing the education department and the Shivamogga block education officer to do the needful. "When I was a student, the school building was intact. By the time I started teaching there, the thatched roof became leaky and its doors and windows broken or absent," said Nayak. 
 
 However, by the time the direction came in November, Nayak was out of the school, where he served as a part-time teacher. His contract with the school had ended in October 2017.
 
 Nayak was thrilled to see the letter, but remained disappointed seeing no action on the ground till December. He then met the Shivamogga ZP CEO and officers concerned to act on the PMO direction. But their alleged cold response prompted Nayak to write another letter. In no time, he received a copy of the second letter from the PMO directing the officials to revive the school immediately.
 
 ZP CEO   said there has been no delay in deciding to renovate the school building. "We were waiting for the approval of the action plan and allotment of funds by the education department. We immediately released Rs 36 lakh to the BEO for the purpose," he added. The officials will utilize the funds under   ( ) for renovation, and are planning to complete it before the monsoon.
 
 Nayak said he is happy that his letter has worked for the betterment of his alma mater. "Only poor students come here, and I wanted to ensure that they get decent classrooms to study," he said.
 
