BENGALURU: Police on Wednesday booked doctors of a government hospital and a district health officer for failing to treat a farmer in time.

 Ramaiah, 46, was stung by bees and allegedly waited for more than two hours at the hospital in Kanasawadi village, near  , for a doctor to show up. He was eventually moved to another hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.
 
 Doddabelavangala police registered a case under section 304A of the IPC (death due to negligence) based on a complaint filed by Ramaiah’s wife  .
 
 2 dead, 6 injured in bee attack at village
 
 Police claimed eight people were attacked by bees at Nallenahalli village, near Doddaballapur, 40km from Bengaluru. Ramaiah and another man,  , died; the other six are under treatment.
 
 “The victims arrived at the hospital in a 108 ambulance within an hour of the attack,” police said. “Ramaiah’s wife alleges nurses at the hospital asked them to wait until a doctor arrived. They waited for more than two hours. Finally, Ramaiah’s friends and relatives took him to Nelamangala Government Hospital (about 25km away). They reached there by 6pm, but doctors declared him dead on arrival.”
 
 Hanumaiah, too, died the Nelamangala hospital three hours later. In her complaint, Vijayalakshmi claimed timely treatment would have saved Ramaiah. She told police Ramaiah had been to Nallenahalli to invite friends and relatives for their housewarming ceremony. “He and others were attacked by bees. He couldn’t meet his relatives,” a police officer said.
 
 Police said they will find out why there were no doctors at the hospital and why the victims were not advised to go to another. District health officer Dr   told TOI that the victims were indeed advised to go to another hospital.   said he would probe the case.
 
 “The hospital was adopted by Saptagiri Hospital under the government’s   project,” Gowda said. “They deploy about 10 postgraduate interns who treat patients. A team of interns and nurses treated Ramaiah and others. But Ramaiah’s condition was critical and he died on the way to Nelamangala hospital. I am unaware about the police case against me, but I will cooperate with the police investigation.”
 
 Under the Arogya Bandhu scheme, the health department has tied up with NGOs, charitable trusts and private medical colleges to run 52 of its primary health centres with financial assistance from the government.
 
