NEW DELHI: The   kicked-off consultations on Friday to outline the contours of the mechanism to fix higher   unveiled in the 2018-19 Union budget aimed at containing rural distress. 

 The government think-tank held consultations with the top officials of states and central ministries “to develop and put in place a foolproof mechanism for implementation of   for different agricultural crops.”
 
 The meeting chaired by Niti Aayog vice-chairman Rajiv Kumar discussed three concepts, including a  , which proposes procurement by states and compensation of losses up to certain extent of MSP after the procurement and price realisation out of sale of the procured produce.
 
 An official statement said that other option which was debated relates to price deficiency procurement scheme. Under this scheme, if the sale price is below a modal price then the farmers may be compensated to the difference between MSP and actual price subject to a ceiling which may not exceed 25% of the MSP. No compensation would be due if modal price in neighbouring states is above the MSP. 
 
 Private Procurement and Stockist Scheme was also discussed. The scheme relates to procurement by private entrepreneurs at MSP and government providing some policy and tax incentives and a commission to such private entities which may be decided on the basis of transparent criteria and bidding for the empanelment of private players by the state government to do the procurement operations.
 
 At the meeting, junior minister for   Gajendra Singh Shekhawat said that states may adopt more than one option depending upon their condition.
 
 However, all the three options may not be implemented for the same crop, he added.
 
 Shekhawat said option of private procurement and stockist scheme offered great promise as it reduces the fiscal implications for the government, involves private entities as partners in agriculture marketing and improves competition. He added that the governments liabilities for storage and post procurement management and disposal are also avoided. 
 
 
