Cleared

 Chennai: Income tax officials will question convicted AIADMK leader V K Sasikala in the Bangalore Parappana Agrahara central prison soon. This follows the I-T searches in her rooms at Veda Nilayam, the Poes Garden residence of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa, in November last year.
 
 The I-T officials had seized several documents, computer hard disks as well as pen drives from her room. Most significant among the seizures was a confidential file sent by former DGP Ashok Kumar to then chief minister Jayalalithaa on the gutka scam. Ashok Kumar had reportedly recommended action against a host of officials who were implicated by the I-T investigation wing in the gutka bribe case. I-T officials said they got the file from Sasikala’s room. I-T sources said a team of officials from Chennai would visit Bangalore prison after February 10 and question her on the prison premises.
 
 Two weeks ago, I-T officials had summoned Sasikala to their office, but through her advocate, she conveyed the message that she would not be able to speak as she was on a silent vow. She also sought time to appear for questioning. The I-T department has sent a letter to the Bengaluru prison authorities, seeking permission to question Sasikala on the prison premises.
 
 “We have gone through the pen drives as well as the hard disks and papers seized from the rooms. We need to know a lot from her,” said a senior I-T official. IT investigation wing had earlier questioned Sasikala’s nephew Vivek Jayaraman, Jayalalithaa’s personal assistant Poongundran and several others close to the Sasikala family.
 
 Sasikala is said to be on a silent vow (maun vrath) since December 5 last year (the first death anniversary of Jayalalithaa) and it is not known for how long she would continue with her vow. R K Nagar MLA and her nephew T T V Dhinakaran told media about her penance of silence, on December 28.
 
 “She requested us to question her after February 10. We have decided to wait till then,” said the official.
 
 
