HYDERABAD: The Telangana government is all set to create a new trend in the country by providing welfare schemes for upper castes, including Reddys, Brahmins and Kammas. The budget preparations, which have picked up lately, will be completed in the first week of February and chief minister   will hold a series of meetings with all the departments till the end of next month. The budget is expected to be presented in the Assembly on March 15 or 16.

 According to sources, apart from new schemes,   will announce sops for the poor members of the Reddy, Brahmin, Kamma and   communities. Poor families belonging to these castes will be provided scholarships, marriage allowances and higher study assistance.
 
 The budget, according to the sources, will see a cut by about 10% in the allocation for irrigation and infrastructure, which have enjoyed the lion’s share in the last four budgets. This money will be pumped into the welfare sector. With the elections nearing, the TRS government wants to double its spending on welfare schemes.
 
 The tax revenue of the state has registered a growth rate of 17% while the overall revenue growth came down from 21.9% to 18%. The growth in total receipts at 12% has also reported a drop.
 
 In the last quarter of the financial year, the expenditure reported from all departments stood at ₹96,000 crore against ₹1.5 lakh crore budget. With only two months left, all departments have been asked to speed up their spending.
 
 The impact of GST and note ban on the budget will be known once the revenue and expenditure figures of all departments are examined, said finance officials. The drop in growth and revenue receipts have also been attributed to the GST mess-up.
 
 The highlights of the 2018-19 budget will be introduction of several welfare schemes for backward castes and most backward communities. The finance department is busy giving shape to these schemes worth more than ₹50,000 crore. However, the plan to introduce BC sub-plan has been shelved.
 
 Earlier, the TRS government proposed a separate budget for women and BCs, but legal experts made it clear that it requires a legislation to bring out separate sub-plans. As there is no time for the enactment, the government dropped the idea.
 
 
