Nagpur: Mahametro, which usually tries to take inconvenience caused to common citizens into account while executing the Nagpur Metro project, seems to have kept its principles in cold storage in case of Wardha Road. It has decided to raze footpaths for two stretches having total length of 335 metre without taking into account the difficulties that will be faced by pedestrians. The Metro agency is constructing a 3.5km long double decker flyover on Wardha Road. The structure has two ramps. The first one will be built near Ajni Square and will have a length of 185 metre. The second one will be located near Sonegaon police station and will be 150 metre long. The ramps will reduce the width of Wardha Road further and make the existing road single lane on both sides. In order to widen the road, Mahametro is razing the footpaths on both sides of the ramp. Devendra Ramtekkar, executive director (reach I), told TOI that the agency did not have any option. “If we don’t remove the pedestrian track, there will be severe traffic jams every day. This has to be avoided at any cost. We will widen the road before shifting the barricades for constructing the ramp. Electric and street light poles will also be shifted,” he said. He further said that Mahametro had submitted a proposal to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) for acquiring land for constructing bicycle path and footpaths. “This is the long term solution. Wardha Road will then have space for everybody,” he added. DD Jambhulkar, traffic engineer of NMC, said that he could not comment on the decision until he saw Mahametro’s plans for razing footpaths. “I am sure they have a solution,” he added. Rajiv Jagtap, member of social organization Janmanch, said that razing the footpaths is a wrong decision. “Walking on the road is dangerous for pedestrians. It will become especially difficult for physically handicapped people who will not be able to move away fast from the way of a fast moving vehicle,” he added. Jagtap pointed out that insurance companies do not give compensation to pedestrians who are mowed down by vehicles if they are walking on the road. Meanwhile, Ramtekkar promised to complete the double decker flyover by November end. “The structure is 3.5km long and is definitely a challenge but we will overcome it,” he told the media on Tuesday. “The flyover will be four lane having a width of about 20m. The width of the present structure is 6.5m. We will attach 6.5m wide wings to it on both sides. The height of the flyover from the ground will be 10m. The Metro viaduct will be another 10m above the elevated road,” the Metro official said.