MUMBAI: Renu Narula had gone on a holiday to Europe with her friends when she was accused of shoplifting a pair of sunglasses from a store at the Istanbul airport—a charge she refutes. Her son-in-law has flown to Istanbul to support her while her daughter has been knocking on the doors of the external affairs ministry in Delhi and the India’s Consulate General in  .

 Speaking to TOI from Istanbul, Narula, a widow, said she is devastated. “There is no clarity how long I am expected to stay here. My 94-year-old father-in-law, who I've been caring for, is alone in India. My finances are getting drained,” she said.
 
 Narula had travelled to Europe with a group of 18 friends. She had planned to do some sightseeing on her own before getting on to a cruise. On April 20, she checked in her luggage at the Istanbul airport to depart for Athens. “My friends and I were shopping in the duty-free section and entered an accessories store. We tried on some sunglasses but didn't take a fancy for any and put them back. After leaving the store, we went to a cafe. Suddenly, some employees from the accessories store barged into the cafe and grabbed my bag. They accused me of shoplifting a pair of sunglasses and took my bag with them to the store. I followed them as my passport, money and tickets were in the bag,” she said.
 
 The store employees took out a sunglasses case from her bag. It had two used sunglasses in it. “I told them they were my sunglasses and there was no question of making payment for them. They threatened that I would be in big trouble. When they announced they were going to call the police, I said I had no objection. I knew I was innocent and had nothing to be scared of,” she added. When the cops arrived with an interpreter, the store displayed their CCTV footage. “On camera, I could be seen trying on some sunglasses and putting them back. A few minutes later, the footage showed me placing a piece of paper in my handbag. It was a paper napkin but the employees claimed it was a label from a pair of sunglasses. They had no footage capturing the alleged shoplifting,” Narula added.
 
 She was taken to the police station and then to a court while her friends left for Greece. “The police suggested I hire a lawyer which I did but she did not speak English. The court said my custody wasn’t required but I should stay in Turkey till the trial. It was 
  when I left the court. After calling up my travel agent, I got a hotel room booked. My son-in-law flew in the next day to be with me. On April 23, my lawyer advised us to make an application to the court for permission to deposit a security amount and leave the country while the trial continued. But the application was rejected. Other lawyers have been telling us that the matter is petty and shouldn't have been dragged," she said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
