NEW DELHI: The national capital may have a better record of two-wheeler   wearing helmets but a majority of them could end up with head injuries in case of accidents as they don’t strap the headgear  . 

 A survey conducted at four major traffic junctions in December-January found that more than three-fourths of two-wheeler riders used helmets and   than 50% of them tied the helmets properly.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The study was carried out by Indian Road Safety Campaign (IRSC), a students organisation of IIT-Delhi, in association with Transportation Research and Injury Prevention Programme (TRIPP) of the institute. Video recording for 14 days at ITO crossing, Aurobindo Marg-IIT junction, Red Fort traffic intersection and a crossing in Kalyanpuri in East Delhi were studied. “Videography was done for nine hours every day at each location during the study period. Data on 87,000 two-wheelers was analysed,” Amar Srivastava of IRSC said.
 
 The survey also included interview of over 300 two-wheeler drivers. According to the findings, 50% of pillion riders were found not wearing   and about 40% of all headgear users were spotted wearing half helmets. Such helmets do not cover the chin.
 
 According to UN Motorcycle Helmet Study, bikers are 26 times more likely to die in road crashes than drivers of passenger cars and wearing an appropriate helmet improves their chances of survival by 42% and helps avoid 69% of injuries to riders.
 
 Former AIIMS chief Dr M C Misra said the best way to prevent traumatic brain injury was to use reasonable quality helmet and fasten it.
 
 “In 2010, the Supreme Court had passed an order saying that provision of helmet along with sale of two-wheelers is mandatory. “This judgment has not been put into reality and it has not been enforced across India. About 30-40% of trauma victims sustain brain injuries (head injury). Patients with severe traumatic brain injury need maximal cost intensive resources in hospital, but never ever return to society functional and productive,” Misra said.
 
 Last week, road transport secretary Y S Malik had flagged the issue of people not strapping helmets and had said such a practice has a lot to do with the culture of driving in India.
 
 
