PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has proposed a straight   for residential and commercial users for the financial year 2018-19.

 Presently, the water tax for residential and commercial users stand at 4% and 5%, respectively, which is expected to increase to 8% and 10% in 2018-19. The proposal has been tabled before the standing committee and is expected to get a green signal before February 20 when municipal commissioner   presents the draft municipal budget to standing committee chairperson  .
 
 The proposal has been made as the civic body will pay Rs 306 crore to the state irrigation department for drawing 300MLD water from   and Andra dams to implement 24x7 supply for 60% of its area under the Amrut scheme. 
 
 Under the scheme,   will incur a cost of Rs 500 crore for treating water from the two dams at Chikhali water treatment plant. Another Rs 306 crore will be borne by the civic body for laying pipelines to the fringe areas of Chikhali, Dudulgaon, Talawade, Bhosari and Dighi.
 
 “The proposal aims at reducing the increased cost burden in the wake of 24x7 water supply project implementation,” civic officials said, adding that PCMC will ensure continuous water supply to about 12 lakh population in the twin cities, for which charges will be levied as per meter readings for residential users.
 
 There are over 1.41 lakh domestic water connections in PCMC limits. However, there are several properties without legal water connections. For such people, the civic body will impose a fine of 5% on their property tax to legalise the connection.
 
 “No other changes have been made in the property tax, besides the water charges and the levy for legalizing the water connections,” the officials said.
 
 For ex-servicemen, freedom fighters and their wives, divyangs or the blind and women, 50% concession in property tax has been proposed. For green buildings, the owners will get 5%, 8% and 10% concession in property tax as per the star ratings. Property holders will get 5% concession in tax if they pay their bills before June 30, and 2% if they pay their taxes before March 31, 2019.
 
 PCMC has also decided to bring private Marathi-medium schools under the residential category as far as property tax is concerned. “This has been done to ensure the spread of education in Marathi language,” the officials added.
 
 
