HYDERABAD: In the past three years, 37 Dalit and tribal women were raped in Hyderabad by accused belonging to either forward castes or backward castes, according to  .

 In rape and murder cases, if the victim is a Dalit or a tribal and the perpetrator belongs to forward caste or is a BC, by default the SC/ST Act is added along with rape and murder sections of the IPC, say police.
 
 From 2015 to January 2018, 37 cases of rape were registered along with SC/ST Atrocities Act and three cases of murder along with the Atrocities Act were booked in Hyderabad police commissionerate. The list of 37 cases, does not include cases wherein the victims and accused both belong to the SC/ST communities.
 
 The former Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Srinivasa Rao in an internal circular issued in February ordered for quick compensation and close supervision of such cases including a ‘scene of the offence visit’ by a senior officer.
 
 The CP said in the circular, “In major atrocities cases like murders and rapes, pending cases have to be finalised (sic). Investigation officials and deputy commissioners of police have to give special attention to the cases. In murder cases, deputy commissioner of police has to visit the spot in 24 hours. In other SC/ST cases an appreciation report has to be filed in case if it is closed as false case.” Legal experts and SC/ST rights activists say law enforcement agencies must collect evidence and ensure accused in such cases are punished.
 
 Senior advocate of   C   told TOI, “It is a startling that 37 Dalit and tribal women were victims of rape at the hands of forward and backward castes. Their capacity to prove (their case) with evidence is very week. Under these circumstances, it is the courts and government machinery that have to come to their rescue. SCs and STs, who form the majority of the population are vulnerable, and   enacted the Atrocities Prevention Act to protect them. It is the duty of law enforcement agencies to implement the Act. Under criminal law, aggrieved party is the State and not the individual. The dilution of the Act will cause untold suffering to the community.”
 
 Medi Ramesh, president of Telangana SC/ST Employees’ Association, said, “Most rape victims are domestic workers and class four employees. Most people trafficked also belong to SC/ST communities.”
 
