BARNALA: After approaching Punjabi singers to promote cultural ethos instead of glorifying gun culture and booze, Punjab Police now wants to inculcate the habit of book reading among youth. The   district police has taken an initiative to hold a book fair from March 1 to 5.

 In another first, the police department has decided to put up a separate enclosure for books written by deceased or senior serving IPS officers. Noted writers and academicians too have given their consent to participate in the book fair and enlighten the people about the literature and making the habit of reading quality books. Many books written by cops on diplomacy, various tough operations undertaken by police across the country and policing too will be made part of the book fair. The fair will be devoted to various litterateurs from Barnala area. The police have involved the National Book Trust (NBT) and Punjab languages department with the sole aim of promoting book culture among youths.
 
 “The district police have decided to promote book reading among people. We want the youth to know more about their culture so that their mind may not get affected by drugs or any other social evil. Aiming for this, we decided to hold book culture for five days and involve litterateurs and academicians,” said Barnala SSP Harjit Singh.
 
 During the book exhibition various sessions will be held where Punjab Kala Parishad chairman Surjit Patar, noted feminist Dr Harshinder Kaur, former teacher at   will talk about the importance of culture and books in life. The police will also organise quiz contests on the theme “Beti Bachao, Beti Padao” and quality books will be provided to youth winning quiz contests,” the SSP maintained. He said 25 publishers had given consent to take part in the book fair to be held at Shanti Hall here.
 
 Books authored by IPS officers SK Ghosh, former joint director, intelligence bureau,  , P C Dogra, S Subramaian, Mukesh Singh, Viplav Kumar Choudhary, former CBI director Joginder Singh, Giriraj Shah, G S Aujla, Jitender Jain, Bhagwan Singh Danewalia, Parmesh Dangwal, SR Arun, K P S Gill and Arvind Verma will be put up at the fair, many of which will shed light on policing and terror network in India. 
 
 
