Chennai: The Medical Council of India ( ) has amended the   regulations to make it mandatory for all medical colleges offering MBBS to start postgraduate courses by 2020. The amendment, the council hopes, will boost the number of specialists in fields such as general medicine and surgery, paediatrics, gynaecology and orthopaedics.

 Medical colleges have to apply for permission to start postgraduate medical education courses within three years of grant of recognition or three years from the date of inclusion of the MBBS qualification, according to the Postgraduate Medical Education (Amendment) Regulations, 2018, notified on April 5. If the permission is not granted for lack of faculty, human resources, patients, bed strength or infrastructure, the institution will be given two more opportunities to apply. Failure to make an application or obtain permission within the stipulated period will lead to withdrawal of recognition of MBBS qualification, it said. These regulations will come into effect from the academic year 2020-21 in order to provide time to existing colleges to apply, it said.
 
 The MCI has more than 476 registered medical colleges with over 60,000 MBBS seats across the country. But the number of postgraduate seats – degree (MD/MS) or diploma – is less than 30,000. Even in states like Tamil Nadu that boast of having the largest number of government medical colleges, at least nine colleges don’t have PG courses. This year, with an addition of 157 seats, the state has 1,648 postgraduate degree and diploma seats.
 
 The decision follows suggestions from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, said MCI vice-president Dr C V Bhirmanandam. “If we don’t push colleges to start higher speciality courses, we will have a serious dearth of doctors. It is the responsibility of colleges and governments to ensure there are adequate PG seats in every state,” he said.
 
 Tamil Nadu director of medical education Dr A Edwin Joe said the central policy will help the state expedite its seat expansion plan. “The policy of the state is to have one medical college in every district, increase undergraduate seats by at least 100 every year and proportionately increase PG seats. The notification will add more vigour,” he said. 
 
 Even colleges not yet recognised for the award of MBBS degree under the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956, are allowed to apply to start PG courses in pre-clinical and para-clinical subjects along with the admission of fourth batch for the MBBS course, and in clinical subjects along with the admission of fifth batch for the MBBS course.
 
 
