NAGPUR: A region-specific cropping system can go a long way in improving the condition of fields and improving the lives of farmers, said  , thematic programme executive of  . Patil delivered a talk on ‘Conservation of Indigenous seeds’ on Saturday morning, as part of the   exhibition-cum-sale, held at   premises in  .

 The remedy to promote regional food system is through conservation of indigenous seeds, he said, adding, “we need to blend community knowledge with science and technology. This will help us identify varieties that are adaptable to one’s region”.
 
 Patil said that they had identified over 15 types of tuber, where one tuber weighs about 15 kilogram. “The tribals eat one tuber and feel satiated the entire day since these are characterized by their slow release of carbohydrate.”
 
 Giving further examples of regional food, Patil said, mohua has been defamed as the ingredient solely used for brewing alcohol. “But mohua can be used to extract oil, make curries, sweets, and much more. Our foundation sowed 1.5 lakh plants of mohua, whose one tree can offer over 200kg oil,” he said.
 
 “None of the varieties of crops prescribed by universities can withstand climate change. But the crops sowed by tribals have known to be safe despite water logging in the fields. We need to identify resources in tribal area in order to help them fight malnutrition and starvation, instead of distributing packaged food in those areas. In order to pursue sustainable development, we need to revive what is already available, and strengthen regional food system,” said Patil.
 
 For this, he suggested the formation of community seed bank. “Seeds are no one’s property. A seed bank will help in selection, purification, preparation of quality seeds, which can be distributed to all. Forest food nursery can also help converse plants which are slowly becoming extinct,” he said.
 
 Referring to weed as a source of food, Patil said that he and his team had identified 25 species of weed which can be eaten. “Weed is a source of nutritional vegetable as well as a medicine. We need to spread diversity. Instead of calculating yield per hectare, it would be beneficial if one saw production through the concept of nutrition per hectare,” he added.
 
 
