MUMBAI: For millennials, pursuing degree programmes may not be as boring as it was hitherto. If organic farming interests you as a hobby and you want to learn economics for your bread and butter, autonomous colleges offer you exactly this kind of a blend in your degree programmes. From something as quirky as learning the ‘secret lives of animals’ or the changing ways of Indians spending their leisure time (sociology of leisure) or even accommodating credits in accountancy as you pursue engineering, city’s autonomous colleges offer a plethora of multidisciplinary options for degree college aspirants.

 
 
  
 
  College in south Mumbai and   in the western suburbs—two of the most sought-after colleges—have joined the limited but elite group of autonomous institutions in the city that includes St Xavier’s, Ruia, Somaiya and others. Skill-oriented curriculum, timely results and transfer of credits with ease from any national or international universities are some of the benefits that students can look forward to at these colleges. With the formation of the Maharashtra Autonomous Institutions’ Consortium, very soon a Ruia College student can attend lectures for a selected topic at St Xavier’s or vice-versa.
 
 The consortium was set up in order to share the best practices and resources in colleges and to make transfer of credits between colleges possible soon. “The details are yet to be worked out by the consortium. But if students want to pursue a semester or two from other universities in India or abroad, they can do so. We allow transfer of credits from other universities at St Xavier’s,” said principal of St Xavier’s Agnelo Menezes. St Xavier’s is the oldest autonomy example among traditional arts, science and commerce colleges. Most of the autonomous colleges currently follow the university’s admission process for undergraduate programmes.
 
 The newer in the lot— Jai Hind and Mithibai—are likely to keep it similar to avoid last-minute confusion, but may tweak it a bit in future. Since Ruia’s autonomy is also a year old, they did not change the process last year. St Xavier’s conducts an entrance test for BMS and BMM to give equal opportunity to students coming from different backgrounds, unlike other traditional courses.
 
 Rajpal Hande, principal of Mithibai College, said that they do not intend to introduce new courses in the first year of autonomy, but will restructure and revamp all the first-year courses. “We will be using the courses offered by top institutes in the country as benchmarks. Ten shortterm add-on courses are to be started for students of specific departments. Our aim is to create job-oriented and skillbased curriculum ensuring that our graduates are job-ready,” said Hande. He added that international collaborations are also in the pipeline. Ashok Wadia, principal of Jai Hind College, said that they would be changing their examination and evaluation processes and will incorporate continuous assessment. “There will also be components and grades for extracurricular and social responsibility activities taken up by students.
 
 These changes will be implemented for the coming year and the incoming batch will receive the benefits. We wish to bridge the gap between the academia and industry and will be taking inputs from the industry too,” said Wadia. The consortium’s president, Vijay Joshi, former principal of KJ Somaiya College, said they are looking at a model wherein an innovative course offered by one of the autonomous colleges could be offered to students from all colleges. “We need to share our resources, allow transfer of credits.
 
 The fees collected from students should be given to colleges hosting innovative courses,” said Joshi. The consortium, which has only the city’s autonomous colleges as members so far, will soon include close to 70 colleges in the state, which have attained autonomy. Many more such as Birla College in Kalyan, Ramniranjan Jhunjhunwala in Ghatkopar, SIES Sion, Kelkar-Vaze in Mulund and   in Panvel may also attain autonomy, taking the count of city’s autonomous colleges to close to 20.
 
