CHANDIGARH: The biggest problem that we all face in the country, not only those with military background, is the confrontation between the   and military because ministry of defence has civilian officers from different areas and the   are considered subordinates, says former chief of the Army Gen V P Malik (Retd.). He added that the confrontation is harming the country’s defence and security even today. Gen Malik was at Panjab University to release the second edition of the book, Maimed by the System’ authored by Major   here on Sunday. 

 Quoting from the book, Gen Malik said even in his time, around 17 years ago, 80% people had gone to courts on account of disability. “I feel that things have not really changed and the percentage of such cases have not really gone down,” said Gen Malik. 
 
 “Most of the problems are indeed in the ministry of defence because they are the ones who decide ultimately. We have an ex-servicemen welfare department. For a short while, there was one person in the department who was slightly more sympathetic. But by and large their attitude continues to be negative and this department incidentally has no defence officer serving or retired, even today,” added Gen Malik. 
 
 Referring to the author, Gen Malik said he had also pointed out in the book that the military bureaucracy is also not helpful. “The system is dependent on people who are not in the service and have not been in the service, whether they are in the pension office or in the administration,” added Gen Malik. 
 
 Gen Malik also mentioned about the committee formed by former defence minister Manohar  , of which the author Major Navdeep was also a part, that the committee had made certain excellent recommendations and were accepted by Parikar, who had also said in his orders that it would be implemented within 45 days. However, till date nothing has been done. Lieutenant General K J.Singh (retd.), who was a former Western Army Commander said for a soldier the real concern is that he or his family should not be made to run in the offices for paper work . 
 
 The first edition of the book was released in 2014 and this is the second edition of the book which has three more cases where families of the martyrs are struggling to get their entitlements. 
 
