JAISALMER: Centre and state governments are repeatedly making announcements for giving citizenship to   displaced, but these announcements are being made halfheartedly. In many parts of the state on May 31 and June 1 during camps organised under the leadership of Jaisalmer district collector Anupama Jorwal to provide citizenship to such people on Thursday, incomplete preparations were seen and nobody could be given the citizenship because   report did not come along and many district collectors did not have power to give citizenship and no official from union home ministry was present. As far as border Jaisalmer and   districts are concerned, there also are many Pak displaced who are entitled for citizenship.

 Jorwal addressing the people of minority community said that all efforts are being made to get citizenship to Pak minorities. In this regard, she directed officials to work seriously and get the desired progress. In the camp, additional district collector KL Swami and BI CID officials, large number of women and men of Pak minority were present.
 
 Jorwal said in this camp no new application for citizenship was received. In the district total 11 Hindu community Pak minorities had applied for citizenship, which are under consideration.
 
 She said in this regard, report has not been received from IB and in few incidents LTV was not received due to which there was problem in giving final disposal of citizenship applications.
 
 Similarly, in Barmer camp was set up for Pak displaced in which 64 forms were filled in which 54 were old and 10 new forms were filled, but here too citizenship could not be given. These people completed approximately seven years in Barmer.
 
 Seemant Lok Sangathan president   said that state government has organised camp at all districts except Jodhpur but maximum collectors do not have information about this process and how to implement it. Apart from this, many district collectors do not have right to give citizenship and in such situation no Pak citizen was given Indian citizenship. He said due to incomplete preparations by the government there was disappointment among Pak displaced as they come from distant places in this camp and every time they went back disappointed.
 
 
