MOHALI: Come April, the visitors at   will get a unique experience of interaction with birds. It is called avian-human interface. While walking through an aviary, visitors will be in caged tunnel whereas the birds will have a free flight.

 The 300 meters walk along the meshed passage will give real-time feel as of being in the natural habitat of birds.  , chief conservator forests said, “The Chhatbir Zoo is ready to throw open its aviary segment to the public but the formal inauguration will probably be held in first or second week of April.”
 
 The bird trail starts with a ‘Pheasant walk’ where species such as the red jungle fowl, Kaleej pheasant, Lady  's pheasant are on display followed by flightless birds enclosure like ostrich, emu, cassowary and rhea, painted stalk, bar headed goose, white spoon bill, grey heron, rosy penecal, surkhab, spotbill duck among others.
 
 “This will be the longest walk-in aviary in the country. At present, there are 45 species of birds available and bred. However, later it may be increased to 115 species. The aviary will be open for public after its formal inauguration,” he added.
 
 Throwing more light about the walk-in aviary, zoo field director M   said that it has been prepared at a cost of Rs 90 lakh and the facility is ready for the visitors.
 
 “This will be a unique feature with five different concepts. Birds can fly with comfort as of in their natural habitat and protected gallery. Visitors can have glimpse of rare species of birds in their natural habitat and can also have opportunity to click pictures even while they nest. We have developed the architectural design with a view to support the natural forest-like atmosphere for the birds. It will also give birds ample space to have free flight,” said Sudhagar.
 
 “A large enclosure for confining birds has been made and unlike birdcages, such aviaries allow birds a larger living space. Hence, such aviaries are also sometimes known as flight cages. We have also made arrangements for the aviary to have plants and shrubbery to simulate a natural environment. This will give natural habitat to the birds and a forest feeling to the visitors,” he added.
 
 Visitors can see birds feeding, preening, nesting, breeding and information on them will be provided through interpretation centres and display boards allocated along the walk, he said.
 
 Gharials will be kept in the walk-in aviary in the ponds as they do not pose any danger to the birds. These gharials have been bred at Chhatbir Zoo three years ago with 100% survival rate.
 
 
 
