PARIS: The sun was beaming on the city of style, the capital of global fashion. And so was the ten-time   champion   as he entertained on kids day. The weather, a little sharp for a spring afternoon, was perhaps a reflection of the form of the top-seed, who’ll look to thread another historic charge. But before the clouds gathered and business kickstarted, when the bounce was still high and that electric carpet of red-brown dirt was playing true, the Spanish superstar teamed with rival Novak Djokovic for a fun matchup against Simona Halep and  . 

 
 That’s where the games ended. The 31-year-old, who has taken ownership of the surface, his beloved clay, is coming into the   on a stirring 19-1 winloss record from four tournaments.
 
 Nadal, who has long sealed his authority on the terre battue , or broken earth, opens his campaign against luck loser & world No. 130 Simone Bolelli. The Spaniard, overwhelming favourite to win the title, got some relief from the draw, lodged as he is in the more predictable top half. The seventh-seeded Austrian Dominic Thiem, who ended Nadal’s clay court streak of 21 wins in the Madrid quarterfinals, and secondseeded German Zverev are in the bottom half of the draw. Former winner Djokovic, now ranked 22, one of only two men to have beaten the 31-year-old Nadal here, is also in same half as Thiem and Zverev.
 
 
 
 If Nadal is in the hunt for number 11 in Paris, Simona Halep is looking for her first. The amiable 26-year-old, who is aiming to hold on to the top spot in the rankings, will need to fend off five women — Caroline Wozniacki, Garbiñe Muguruza, Elina Svitolina, Karolina Pliskova, and Caroline Garcia -- to retain the top position at the end of her Paris outing. The super-fit Romanian, who opens her tournament against Alison Riske, heads a star-studded draw that includes comeback mom  , two-time French Open champion   and former No.1 Victoria Azarenka, who has fought more off-court battles in the recent past than taking on opposition on a tennis court.
 
 Halep, who lost to Latvian powerhouse Jelena Ostapenko in the final last year, is looking for her first Grand Slam title.
 
