RAJKOT: A 28-year-old computer expert of Piprava village, 9km from Lathi in   district, has developed an innovative way to save beehives which are depleting fast due to extreme use of pesticides.

  Vagahasia converted honeybee breeding into profession and achieved a good result in the last three years. Vagahasia completed his Master of Computer Application (MCA) from a college of Mumbai in 2012. Being the son of a farmer he was worried about extra use of pesticides in agriculture. 
 
 Vagahasia told TOI: “Pesticides have adversely affected our ecosystem . It has killed mites, caterpillars and walnuts which are useful for agriculture. It has also affected several birds. Also adversely affected were the beehives, the most useful means for pollination. This concerned me and I decided to undertake a research on it.” 
 
 Initially, Vagahasia worked with some NGOs in Maharashtra and   where he learnt honeybee breeding and conservation from   in Pune. He started honeybee breeding in his own farm and decided to market it.
 
 Vagahasia claims that apart from their contribution in increasing the yield in agricultural produce through pollination, honeybees also contribute in the health of humans through their honey, which has a slew of medicinal benefits, especially psoriasis, a skin disorder.
 
  “There is no cure for psoriasis disease in allopathy, but I treat this disease with the help of honey and milk of Gir cow. I get orders from some foreign countries too. I supply honey through courier on order basis and I get orders on my cellphone. Some of the clinics invite me for the treatment, and I have not kept it a trade secret. It is for the well-being of the humanity,” he says. 
 
 As a starter he made a video showing how honey and milk of Gir cow can cure the skin disease and uploaded it on social networking site Youtube. He got an overwhelming response for this video and he started selling honey. He gets Rs 400 to 1,000 for per kg honey.
 
 The beehives are very useful for agriculture also. They are essential for pollination and they increase the yield in the farm. For example, onions can not grow without pollination through honeybees. Vagahasia prepares a wooden box for this honeybee breeding. “I keep ten holes in a wooden box. There is one queen in the box and rest are the labourers. This queen lays eggs, while the other bees take male pollen to female pollen, while moving around the plants, and this pollination gives fruits on plants.” Vagahasia explains. 
 
 Some of the farmers takes these honeybee boxes on rent. Bhanubhai Patel, a farmer of Bhuva village of   taluka of Amreli, says, “I took a box from Manish and kept it in my farm. Interestingly I got a good result. It increased my yield by nearly 20% .” 
 
 Taking a cue from Vagahasia, other youths also want to start this profession. “The success story of Manish has inspired me, and I have decided to start honeybee breeding,” says Ashraf Kashmani, a resident of Savarkundla.
 
 
