KOCHI: There are several government schemes to ensure that pregnant women who check into a   have all services for free. But the harsh reality is that it is not free and the women who opt for institutional delivery in government hospitals in the state will have to pay out of own pockets. Kerala, despite its commitment to healthcare, ranks amongst the top five states and union territories in the country with average expenditure above Rs 6,000 per delivery in a government hospital.

 The average out of pocket (OOP) expenditure is the highest in Manipur with Rs 10,076, followed by Delhi with Rs 8,719 and   with Rs 7,782. While in Kerala one must spend Rs 6,901 in Arunachal Pradesh it is Rs 6,474, as per National Family Health Survey-4.
 
 Taking this data as a proxy indicator, the Niti Aayog report notes that the average OOP expenditure (OOPE) per delivery in public health facility for larger states is Rs 3,080, while for smaller states it is Rs 5,170 and for union territories it is Rs 2,995. This is despite several   interventions targeting pregnant woman such as   (JSY), Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram (JSSK) and referral transport to ensure free delivery at public health facilities.
 
 Due to schemes like JSY and JSSK, institutional deliveries in India have increased from 40.7% in 2005-06 to 72.9% in 2009-10. The high OOPE is especially catastrophic for poor households, who are often pushed into indebtedness because of this. OOPE includes all the direct expenditure incurred by the women in availing delivery care at the health facility including transportation, all of which are provisioned to be free. The DLHS-3 data reported that OOP for delivery in private hospitals was three times higher than in public hospitals.
 
 They must pay for services from private providers (for transportation, laboratories and medicines brought from pharmacies, etc.) due to shortage or non-functioning of respective services at the public health facility.
 
 “Studies have shown that the incidence of catastrophic healthcare expenditure (CHE) is growing. The expenses are generally due nonavailability of prescribed medicines or tests in the hospital. Also, there is a possibility that though the delivery maybe in a government hospital, they may be consulting the doctor outside the hospital,” said Dr T Jayakrishnan, department of community medicine, government medical college, Kozhikode.
 
 Rural households primarily depend on their ‘household income or savings’ (68%) and on ‘borrowings’ (25%), whereas the urban households relied much more on their ‘income or saving’ (75%) and (18%) on borrowings for financing expenditure on hospitalizations.
 
 “We can’t understand the reason for this. Maybe it is the transportation cost, that is not currently covered by us,” said  , additional chief secretary (health).
 
