BENGALURU: A 37-year-old Nigerian, acquitted in a drug peddling case and sentenced on lenient grounds to three-month simple imprisonment for   by a sessions court last year, is back in jail. He has been arrested again for allegedly peddling drugs at Seegehalli Virgonagar, KR Puram, east Bengaluru. 

 Fidelis Ogiguo Ezeh, a resident of Ripco Shantinikethana Layout, KR Puram, and from Lagos in Nigeria, was arrested by the Women and Narcotics Squad of Central Crime Branch ( ) on Saturday. The team seized 420 grams of cocaine, 210 grams of opium and 75 grams of MDMA from him.   has been remanded him in judicial custody.
 
 Sources said Ezeh was arrested by CCB police on October 12, 2013 for allegedly peddling drugs and also violating visa norms. He was released on bail on January 31, 2014 after he spent three months and 18 days in judicial custody. He was tried in the 33rd Additional City Civil and Session court, which acquitted him of the offence punishable under Section 20c (selling drugs) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances ( ) Act, but convicted him for an offence under Section 14 (violating visa norms) of the  .
 
 The defence counsel had urged the court to take a lenient view of Ezeh's offence, as he was the sole earning member of his family and had aged parents, wife and schoolgoing children to support. The public prosecutor argued against it, pointing out that the convict had committed an offence punishable up to five-year imprisonment. Noting that Ezeh was attending the court regularly after availing bail, the court awarded him only three-month simple imprisonment. The imprisonment was set off against Ezeh's stay for three months and 18 days in judicial custody. He, however, paid Rs 50,000 levied as fine by the court.
 
 CCB officials said Ezeh did not return to his country as he was an accused in a similar case registered at Ramamurthy Nagar police station. Police have seized a two-wheeler and a cellphone Ezeh allegedly used to sell contrabands to his customers. 
 
 
