MUMBAI: One in every three   does not conform to prescribed standards of education and lacks requisite infrastructure, a probe panel has found. Some colleges do not even have basic facilities such as their own building or full-time teaching and non-teaching staff, the committee headed by an expert has said.

 The state agriculture department may derecognize such colleges, numbering 56 in all, and also initiate action against officials who gave them sanction. Most of these colleges are owned by local politicians.
 
 Maharashtra has four agriculture universities. After the   in 2016 put their accreditation on hold citing irregularities in their functioning, the state formed a committee under former VC of   (Rahuri), Dr  , to look into the operations.
 
 
  
  
 
 The committee’s report, recently submitted to the state government, said that of the nearly 150   in the state, 56 had to be placed in the C and D category after it was found they failed to fulfil basic norms.
 
 A majority of these colleges have been set up by politicians, and officials said they did not meet standards even when they were given permission to start undergraduate, post-graduate and PhD courses.
 
 “Some colleges that are in the last two categories did not have essential facilities even at the time of getting sanction or when they were being given affiliation to the varsities. We have suggested action be initiated against the officials responsible,” said a senior agriculture department official. 
 
 “The number of staff vacancies in these colleges is also high, which has affected the level of education,” another official said. He added that the standards of these colleges had a direct impact on research and development in the agriculture sector in the state.
 
 The ICAR had asked the state to rectify the many violations at the earliest. The reason behind holding back accreditation was said to be the large-scale vacancies in government agricultural colleges and the mushrooming of private agriculture colleges, often without proper infrastructure.
 
 Officials said private agriculture colleges were not allowed in the state before 2002. But between 2002 and 2016, 150 private colleges were established, with a cumulative student strength of 14,200. A total of 13,000 students in these colleges were pursuing undergraduate studies, 1,000 were post-graduate students, and 200 were doing their PhD.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 There has been increasing interest in agriculture and allied courses among Maharashtra’s students. According to the Maharashtra Council for Agricultural Education and Research (MCAER), in 2017, 51,822 students applied for the 15,227 seats available in various undergraduate agriculture courses, that is, more than three students per slot.
 
 “The fees these private colleges charge are huge (amounting to some lakhs) in comparison to the services and infrastructure provided by them. This is also one of the reasons for poor-quality research in the agriculture sector by the colleges,” said an official.
 
 
