GURUGRAM: Two   were robbed within less than three hours by four men who offered them rides in their   in the intervening night of March 19 and 20. The bartenders were left on the roadside after they were robbed and beaten. Cops suspect the same gang is involved in both cases.

 Pankaj Rathore (29) was robbed of Rs 8,000 cash, his ATM card and mobile phone, and hours later, Atit Limbu (26) was robbed of his ATM card which was used to withdraw Rs 35,000.   have issued an advisory against taking rides from strangers at night.
 
 Rathore, originally from Mandi in Himachal Pradesh, works at a bar in Sector 29. Around 11:00pm on Monday, he was waiting at Iffco Chowk for a ride to his home when a Swift Dzire coming from the Rajiv Chowk side stopped for him. The driver agreed to drop him at Mahipalpur. There were three other men in the car but Rathore thought they were commuters too. 
 
 “I took the window seat at the back of the car but the driver asked me to switch places with the man who was sitting in the middle, saying he would get down first. He also insisted that I pay the fare and when I pulled out my wallet to give a Rs 20 note, the men asked for my purse. When I resisted, they attacked me with a screw driver. They hit me under the eye and snatched away my purse and mobile phone. They diverted the cab towards Cyber Hub and moved on to the Golf Course Road. At Genpact Chowk, they pushed me out of the car. I tried to note the car’s number but it was covered with a red cloth. Injured, I somehow reached home,” Rathore told TOI. He added, “They were merciless. I requested them to take everything and leave but they thrashed me and threatened to kill me while laughing at my condition.”
 
 An FIR was registered against the four robbers under sections 379-B (snatching & use of force), 34 (common intention) of IPC at Sector 18 police station. “We hope to arrest them soon,” said SHO Vikas Kumar, Sector 18 police station.
 
 Four robbers also targeted another bartender who works at a bar on MG Road around 1:30am. Atit Limbu, a resident of Ghitorni in Delhi, was waiting for a ride to his home when a driver offered to drop him. There were three other men in the car. “I had to go to Ghitorni but they turned the car towards Gurugram and started   me up. They covered my eyes with a cloth and stole my wallet which had my ATM card but no cash. They forced me to tell the PIN and withdrew Rs 35,000 from an ATM booth before dumping me near Sector 15,” said Limbu.
 
 As per his complaint, an FIR was registered under Section 379-B (snatching & use of force) of IPC at Sector 29 police station. “We are investigating the case,” said SHO Vikas Kaushik, Sector 29 police station.
 
 
