Nagpur: Marathi writer Gangadhar Pantawane got the news of his Padma Shri award on his hospital bed at Aurangabad. Too weak to respond wholeheartedly, he received the news with a smile.  The well-known writer was hospitalized a few days back for an illness and is recuperating now, his daughter Nandita Pantawane told TOI. “He is very happy. The doctors have asked him not to exert,” said Nandita from Aurangabad. The 81-year-old writer is considered as father of what has come to be known as Dalit literature. He is also credited for mobilizing the intellectuals among the Dalit and tribal community by encouraging them to express their anguish and the social injustice that the community suffered.  “My father hails from Nagpur and we lived in the Pachpaoli area. He had his education at Morris College and later in 1963 shifted to Aurangabad as he got a job here in Milind College,” says Nandita.  It was at Aurangabad that he started a literary movement and had youth, intellectuals and aspiring poets and writers gravitate towards it. “This movement later turned into the quarterly magazine ‘Asmitadarsh’ which he has been editing for last 50 years,” she says. The astute academician that Pantawane is, he gave the academic strength to Ambedkar thought and Dalit writings and catapulted them to international levels, says Satish Pawade, assistant professor at department of performing arts, films and theatre at Mahatma Gandhi Hindi International University in Wardha. “He was inspired by the Dhamma Deeksha event conducted by Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar at Nagpur. He is a prolific writer, critique and poet and his writings have given a vision and a philosophy of life to the new generation of educated and literate Dalit youths,” says Pawade. Pantawane chaired the International Marathi Literature meet in the US a decade back. “He draws parallel between Black theatre and Dalit theatre and even translated a play ‘The Slave’ by LeRoi Jones into Marathi with the title ‘Ghulam’. His writings bring out the Dalit sensitivities, suffering and the repressed emotions and have a deep impact on the community. A lot of politics happens around the name of Ambedkar, but Pantawane influenced the community through literature,” says Surendra Meshram, a research student on Buddhist Theatre at Jawaharlal Nehru University. Sensitive towards the suffering of the underprivileged class, Pantawane urged the young girls and women of Dalit community to come forward and express their feelings by getting education. At the Chokhamele Girls High School in Pachpaoli, which he would visit often, he would encourage the girls to get educated.  “His short stories, poems and writings on folklore were always very vivid,” says Tarachand Khandekar, a retired bank employee who was Pantawane’s classmate at Morris College.  “He realized that Ambedkar thought and the Dalit community had no place in traditional literature. So he made Ambedkar’s teachings as his focal point to create a movement in words which came to be known as Dalit literature. Many great names like Daya Pawar, Raja Dhale, Namdeo Dhasal got associated with him and these writings spread across the state and at international platforms too,” adds Khandekar. It was this literary movement which created ‘Asmitadarsh’. “The writings in this magazine are so powerful that they have continued to influence the Dalit youth. In fact many research scholars use it for references,” says Virendra Ganvir, founder of ‘Bhaujan Rangbhoomi’.  “His mission of enriching and uplifting the deprived has been carried out through the writings in ‘Asmitadarsh’, which I feel is a periodical of historical importance as it continues to be published for half a century now,” says writer Shripad Bhalchandra Joshi who is an eminent writer. “We at Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Maganda recently conducted a seminar in his honour and are extremely proud of the Padma Shri awarded to him,” he adds.