KOLKATA: There may be speculation about the exact cause of Sridevi’s death in Dubai but it has sparked off a debate in medical circles here about the pros and cons of exceedingly strict fitness regimens.

 Doctors are particularly concerned about the rush for a quick way to look fit and young. In many cases, doctors have also found many people using steroids to tone up the body and look youthful without any kind of supervision. “While cosmetic surgeries have no side effects except for the fact that the outcome may not be good enough, there are medicines available online that claim to facilitate rapid weight loss. Many tend to take these without knowing how they affect organs, like liver and kidneys,” said Dr Manoj Khanna, cosmetic surgeon who is also the former president of   Surgeons.
 
 Pointing out that they were not aware of what exactly led to Sridevi’s death, doctors said that weight-loss regimes had to be carried out under supervision. They are also strictly against weight-loss medicines, mostly available online, which are not even approved by regulatory bodies, like the  . And the approved medication, too, need to be taken after consulting doctors. Prolonged use of these could also impact body metabolism, they said.
 
 “There is no quick fix to looking fit and young. The best way to stay fit and healthy is regular exercise for 30-45 minutes, five days a week, if there is no contraindication. If one starves himself or herself of nutrients, the long-term side effects could be disastrous. Additionally, there should not be dependence on synthetic nutrients when ample natural nutrients are around,” said Dr  , senior consultant interventional cardiologist at  .
 
 The craze to look young and fit isn’t just among celebrities. Majority of those who queue up at clinics offering weight loss and cosmetic services are from the middle class. Bombarded by information on the internet, many even suggest to the doctors what medicine they want.
 
 “There are certain steroids that are banned for athletes but used by some in the show business to tone up and look younger. These intravenous anabolic steroids and fairness products can damage the metabolism and affect the functioning of organs,” said senior dermatologist Dr  .
 
 “Some medicines used to control weight can cause cardiac complications if not taken under proper supervision,” said Dr  , senior consultant medicine at Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences, quick to add that they could not comment on Sridevi’s case as the reasons were not known yet.
 
 Experts added meal-replacement diets could have side effects like fatigue, orthostatic hypotension, cold intolerance, and fluid and electrolyte imbalance. Though less common, complications like gout, gall bladder diseases and cardiac arrhythmia could crop up in the long run.
 
