AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad: Sometimes to seek home, one has to go far away. It was surely the case with Iva Patel, 32, an Indian-American scholar of 19th century Gujarati literature, who returned to her roots after almost two decades to understand the works of Swami Nishkulanand, one of the prominent disciples of Lord Swaminarayan, for her doctoral research.

 Patel, a fellow of   (AIIS), is a doctoral student in religious studies from University of Iowa. She is working with a number of Gujarat-based institutions to piece together the details related to 19th century, especially in context of Swaminarayan Sampradaya.
 
 A biology, English literature, and   graduate, Patel developed interest in medieval Gujarati literature during her master’s study. Having stayed in Vadodara for a decade, she re-connected with the state for her research and also learnt Gujarati again. She met and kept in touch with Prof Sitanshu Yashaschandra, eminent poet-scholar, and started studying literature with focus on 19th century.
 
 Why the specific sampradaya and sadhu? Patel said that she came across the works of Nishkulanand Swami during her studies and got attracted to it. She decided to study his works for her doctoral research.
 
 “Study of literature gives insight into individuals and cultures of a specific time frame and how individuals artciulated social and religious identities. In this case, Nishkulanand Swami takes a common, everyday experience, and familiar stories from Hindu scriptures to talk about religion creatively. For him, mind, heart and senses are important domains to engage in to sustain bhakti. My study has shown that the sampraday’s sadhu-poets extended familiar genres of Gujarati poetry and continuing the ‘Bhakti Yug’ of Gujarati literature,” she said.
 
 Through   in Gandhinagar, and other archives of the tradition, she connects with scholars of the sect,
 
 Daughter of an accountant and a pharmacist, Iva was born in Kenya. The family lived in Gujarat for a while before emigrating to the US in 2001. Patel felt the urge to explore her roots and understand Gujarat through literature. “It’s been an enriching journey. From my mentors, Professors Frederick Smith and Philip Lutgendorf, to institutions such as BAPS, BJ Institute of Learning and Research, Saurashtra University and Forbes Gujarati Sabha, everyone has helped significantly in my research,” she said.
 
 
