AURANGABAD: Despite the recent anti-encroachment drive carried out by the  , the busy street and lanes were again full of encroachments by Sunday.

 The local civic body executed two-day rigorous drive from April 4 to de-congest the busy areas in the city as per directives issued by Mayor  . The first day of crackdown saw clearing of roadside encroachments near Delhi Gate, Shahaganj, City Chowk, Gulmandi, Rangar Galli, while Sawarkar Chowk, Nirala Bazaar, Mondha Naka and Gajanan Mandir among other areas were covered during the next day. 
 
 Roadside tin sheds, stalls and small businesses run along roads were vacated during the drive, which also saw confiscation of items in some cases. 
 
 A spot visit to some of these places on Sunday, however, revealed that removed encroachments were back at several places, negating the effect of official drive. Also, while civic authorities claimed that they had reprimanded elements concerned to not repeat their acts that cause congesting of roads and jeopardise public safety, the return of those illegal structures has left scope for doubts over action taken by AMC officials. 
 
 Civic activist   said that the recent anti-encroachment drive was merely an eyewash. “Several encroachments are back in place which imply hollowness of the official action. Most of the civic authorities are hand in glove with the encroachers and therefore such drives are bound to produce no results,” he said. 
 
 Several residents too reacted sharply towards failure of anti-encroachment drive. “The historic Salim Ali Lake is falling prey to encroachments. Every time I pass from the Lake and it pains me to see how rampant encroachments strangulating the beautiful water body. The civic authorities are solely responsible for destruction of the lake,” said  , a resident of TV Centre area.
 
 When contacted, C M Abhang, administrative officer with the anti-encroachment department of AMC, refuted charged levelled against the civic authorities. “The anti-encroachment drive was conducted religiously in public interest. The elements involved in such acts are habitual offenders and therefore chances are likely that encroachments return. The best remedy is to carry out repeated drives in worst affected areas,” he said. 
 
 
