Younsters today are more driven by   than previous generations, and this may be taking a toll on their mental health, a study suggests. The study is the first to examine generational differences vis-a-vis perfectionism, according to researcher   of the UK’s  .

 According to the researchers, perfectionism entails “an irrational desire to achieve, along with being overly critical of oneself and others”. They analysed data from 41,641 American, Canadian and British college students tested on the ‘Multidimensional Perfectionism Scale’, a test for perfectionism, from the late 1980s to 2016. They measured three types of perfectionism: self-oriented — an irrational desire to be perfect; socially prescribed perceiving excessive expectations from others; and other-oriented — placing unrealistic standards on others. The study, published in the journal ‘Psychological Bulletin’, found that the more recent generations of students reported significantly higher scores for each form than earlier ones. Specifically, between 1989 and 2016, the self-oriented perfectionism score increased by 10%, that for the socially prescribed kind by 33%, and 16% for the other-oriented form.
 
 The rise in perfectionism among millennials is driven by a number of factors, according to Curran. For example, raw data suggest that social media use pressures young adults to perfect themselves in comparison to others, which makes them dissatisfied with their bodies, among other things, and increases social isolation. The drive to earn money, pressure to get a good education and setting lofty career goals are other areas in which today’s young people exhibit perfectionism.
 
 In another example, Curran cited college students’ drive to perfect their grades and compare them to their peers’. These examples represent a rise in meritocracy, in which universities encourage competition among students to move up the social and economic ladder. “Young people are responding by reporting increasingly unrealistic educational and professional expectations for themselves,” he said.
 
 The increase in perfectionism may in part be affecting the psychological health of students, said Andrew Hill of  , UK, citing the higher levels of depression, anxiety and suicidal thoughts reported now than a decade ago.
 
