LUCKNOW:   this year could be the hottest in 36 years with the holy Muslim month of fasting falling in peak summer period.

 
  
  
 
 Temperatures on all days of the month is likely to be 40 degrees Celsius and above.
 
 Ramzan is expected to begin on May 16-17 and end on June 16-17. The Met department has predicted that monsoon would arrive in Lucknow after June 18. This means the fasting month will not witness rains.
 
 “Since the Islamic Hijri calendar is based on lunar calculations—it is 10 days short of the solar year-—Muslim festivals coincide with the solar calendar once in a cycle of 36 years. This Ramzan is almost a repetition of the 1982 Ramzan,” said Imam of Eidgah and Sunni cleric Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali.
 
 The fasting days during this Ramzan will be longer by 5-8 minutes than those in previous years. Time duration between sehri and iftar on the first day of Ramzan will be 15 hours 8 minutes and on the last day, 15 hours 15 minutes, added Mahali. Last year, the first and last days were of 15 hours 3 minutes and 15 hours 8 minutes, respectively.
 
 Health experts have suggested menus for sehri (predawn meal) and iftar (postsunset meal) to help people maintain metabolism and the immune system in the extreme weather. The most important thing is to stay hydrated, they said.
 
 “It is not easy to stay without water for 15 hours in summer. Diet plans vary for people with health issues. One must consume fibrous food and food with high water content. Avoid salt as it leads to thirst. Also avoid oily and heavy meals in sehri,” said Dr Shakeel Ahmad.
 
 Those with low blood pressure must consume high-fibre and protein-rich food along with juice and plenty of water, in sehri. High blood pressure and diabetics patients should consume normalfibre food with lots of water. They shouldn’t forget medicines if prescribed. A similar diet should follow in iftar.”
 
 Dietitian and nutritionist   said, “If a pregnant woman wants to fast, she must consume fruits, sprouts and milk along with dates in sehri. Iftar must contains dates, vegetable soup, protein food and shakes. Avoid fry and oily food.”
 
 Psychologist Dr   said, “Ramzan is very significant for those who fast as well as for those who do not. Even children are excited to fast. It is more important to remain calm and peaceful. Meditation after namaz and spending time with family are ways to keep your mind healthy and peaceful even in the scorching heat.”
 
 People should also avoid watching or reading negative news and keep away from debates that lead to anger or arguments with others.
 
