PATNA: The Samastipur police on Thursday detained two BJP workers,   and   Patwa, in connection with the communal violence at   in the district on Tuesday.

 According to BJP’s Samastipur district president Ramsumran Singh, Dinesh is a BJP Kisan Morcha member, while Mohan is a member of party’s weavers’ cell in the district.
 
 Sources said the duo was detained on the basis of a video footage of the incident in which a mosque was damaged after slippers were allegedly thrown on an idol immersion procession.
 
 Samastipur SP Dipak Ranjan told local reporters altogether 12 people were detained and were being interrogated by police.
 
 Meanwhile, official sources said the number of arrests in connection with the communal clashes in six districts since March 24 in the state rose to 241 with 44 more arrests in Aurangabad and Nalanda districts during the last 24 hours. The situation, however, remained peaceful on Wednesday and Thursday in the affected districts — Siwan, Aurangabad, Samastipur.  , Nalanda and Sheikhpura.
 
 In Aurangabad alone, 180 people have been arrested so far and raids were on to arrest other accused, Aurangabad SP   said, adding the internet services in the district were restored on Wednesday evening.
 
 Nalanda DM Thiyagarajan SM said 34 people were arrested in the district till Thursday noon in connection with the clash between police and Ram Navami processionists on Wednesday.
 
 In Munger, a peace march was taken out on Thursday from Shaheed Bhagat Singh Chowk. “Civilians, politicians and administrative officials participated in the march,” Munger DM Uday Kumar Singh said.
 
 In Sheikhpura, two participants of a Ram Navami procession were arrested on Thursday for their alleged involvement in a clash with police after the procession tried to deviate from the route permitted by the administration on Wednesday evening.
 
 In Siwan, 17 people were arrested immediately after a Ram Navami procession was stopped at   leading to communal clashes on March 24. According to SP Naveen Chandra Jha, 90 people are named in the three FIRs lodged in this connection. “Raids are on to arrest the others,” he said.
 
 
