HYDERABAD: After more than two years of gruelling police interrogation and months in prison, three city men will finally find relief after the Special Investigation Team (SIT) said they are all set to shut the sedition case against the three suspected   sympathizers.

 A national news channel, which had flashed footage of the trio announcing allegiance to ISIS, has failed to furnish material evidence against them, a top detective department official said. The investigating agency found no evidence against the three. The channel has been allegedly dodging SIT in furnishing evidence in the form of video (original tapes) of the purported sting operation. The SIT on May19, 2017, booked Abdullah Basith, Salman Mohiuddin Quadri and   after a newly launched private television channel aired their interview on their ISIS links.
 
 Following the expose, SIT registered a suo moto case under   sections 121(A) (waging war against the state) 124 (A) (sedition) and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act against the alleged IS sympathisers. They were whisked away for interrogation and later produced before an executive magistrate.
 
 SIT had twice served a notice to the channel, asking the management to submit original tapes of theinterview for forensic analysis and asked their reporter to appear for a probe.
 
 The purported interviews were recorded with spy cameras. Although the management of the channel sent a CD of the interviews, police wanted original unedited videos, a top SIT official said. A SIT team also went to Mumbai to record the statement of the correspondent, but he was not available.
 
 “We need original raw tapes for investigation as there is no evidence in the case. Hence, we readied a final report on the grounds of ‘lack of evidence’, which is going tobefiledbefore the 12th Additional Metropolitan Magistrate soon,” said a senior official of the detective department.
 
 Salman, was arrested in Hyderabad in 2015 when he was about to board a flight to Dubai, allegedly on the way to   to join ISIS. Basith was among the three men arrested from Nagpur in December 2015, while Qureshi, who was earlier caught by police on a similar charge, was let-off after counselling. Police could not find evidence to back their case.
 
