Happiness and celebrations abound the toppers in   from the city.  , who has secured 99.5 percent in ISC, is not just the city topper, she’s also among the seven students who shared the all-India first rank by securing 99.5%, each. Radhika scored a perfect 100 in five subjects — Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics, Biology and Physical Education but missed a perfect score in English with just two marks. An alumna of   and City Montessori School, Radhika, who hails from a family of doctors, with her father Dr Akhilesh Chandra, a urologist and mother Shalini Chandra, a gynecologist, also aspires for a career in medicine. With the phone ringing non-stop at her home, Radhika says she was extremely nervous before the results were announced. “I was really nervous when the results were about to be declared as I knew ki mehnat toh kari hai but what will be the result like. I could not sleep the night before and also the night after the results came out,” she says. And as soon as the results were out, Radhika’s parents and family cheered for her on her success while the girl herself could not quite believe what she was hearing. “Ever since then, my phone has been ringing with relatives and friends calling to congratulate me. Even those I have never known have been calling up,” says she with a laugh adding, “All my relatives and friends are after my life for a party but I am now focusing on my preparations for medical examinations. I have told everyone ki party examination ke baad hogi.”

  
  THE BFFS: (l-r) Gauri Dube, Manya Shrivastava and Radhika Chandra (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)
 
 
 A badminton player and a science fiction aficionado, Radhika says she was relaxed during her board exams. “The days of the board examinations were great. It was not like I just used to study all the time. I had a lot of fun during the boards. I lived every moment unlike some who shut themselves up and just study. I used to listen to music, play badminton, gossip with friends over the phone, read books,” she says. “My parents used to shout at me ki padhlo warna marks kam ayenge, but I used to ask them to just chill,” adds Radhika with a chuckle, who’s actually having the last laugh, now.
 What’s made this achievement even better for Radhika is that two of her BFFs have also secured excellent marks in ISC. The three could often be spotted playing badminton in their college when their peers would be cooped in at home, studying. Manya Shrivastava and Gauri Dube, who secured 96 and 95 percent,respectively are Radhika’s best friends and the trio hangs out together, often. They too, like Radhika, had   as their subjects in class XII. Thanking their teachers at St Agnes’ and CMS, Manya and Gauri say they ensured that they had their concepts clear, which helped them in the exams. “All other students used to panic outside the examination hall and we used to discuss where we will go when the exams will get over, what clothes we will wear and what we’ll eat. We would discuss our plans for movies and to try out new cafes in the city after the exam,” says Gauri, who’s now preparing for medical entrance exams. 
 And while Manya found the boards gruelling, she says she breezed through them with intensive studying and chatting with friends. “Most of the time I was gossiping on the phone, and the rest of the time, I was studying. I had wished for a new mobile phone after my exams but my father gave it to me in between the boards with a promise from me to get good marks. I used to dedicate less time to social media as I did not want to get distracted. But I will always remember these boards exams when Radhika, Gauri and I used to discuss our plans after the examinations more than our papers,” says Manya, who’s keen on a career in designing and is preparing for admission in   or NIFT. 
 — Prachi Arya
 
 
