NAGPUR: Government Medical College and Hospital ( ) will soon be performing surgeries with an intelligent  . Surgery department head Dr   said, “The department already has the latest equipment, and availability of this device will make it the most advanced surgery department among all GMCs in India.”

 The state government has sanctioned Rs27 lakh to procure this machine. Conventional laparoscopy involves insertion of fibre-optic instrument through the abdominal wall to view organs or permit small-scale surgery. There are various risks and hurdles involved in it, like maintaining CO2 in the abdominal cavity to allow easier access to organs, and ensure clear visualization through the lens throughout the surgery.
 
 The operating doctor always has the fear of losing visibility, and if the CO2 level is incorrect the patient might even collapse, in a worst case. The new machine has a built-in feature to maintain the CO2 level.
 
 Gajbhiye said, “Another difficulty is that every time the smoke concentrates on screen during the surgery, we have to take out the laparoscope and clear the lens from time to time.”
 
 “With the new system in place, visualization during surgery will dramatically improve compared to conventional laparoscopy. The new system will ensure continuous smoke evacuation throughout the procedure. There will be no concentration of smog on the camera lens,” he said.
 
 The machine has been shown to reduce operation time by 15%. In addition, it enables a hospital to reduce its reliance on ancillary devices, such as smoke evacuation systems and specialized devices to prevent loss of CO2 pressure.
 
 Before inserting the laparoscope through abdomen, a contact port (tube) is inserted to anchor the laparoscope. To maintain CO2 pressure, the conventional ports are made of seals and valves. In such a situation, laparoscopes are frequently smudged during insertion, compromising visualization while the operation is being performed. The new machine will be valveless, enabling contact-free insertion and crystal clear visualization.
 
 In conventional systems, the specimen removal can be difficult because of mechanical seal of the port. At times, a part of the tissue, while being taken out, might even remain stuck at the seal of the port, causing a hassle. However, the air seal system will maintain uninterrupted specimen removal every time it is being done.
 
 
