Visakhapatnam: The District   Authority-SETVIZ department of  , in a bid to develop the sporting infrastructure in the district, has earmarked projects worth over Rs 134 crore that, once complete, can make a big difference in the area’s sporting scenario.

 The projects include a sports school project in Sir Vizzy stadium situated in Vizianagaram town, along with a multi-purpose stadium, to be constructed with CPW funds (central public funds, 50 per cent expenses borne by state government). The estimated cost of the stadium project is Rs 100 crore.
 
 However, the district administration, which aims to unearth sporting talent in the rural hinterland, has undertaken the construction of nine Krida Vikas Kendras (KVKs) at an estimated cost of Rs 2 crore each, along with an extra KVK being developed as part of the ST sub-plan at G L Puram. The KVK at G L Puram will cost Rs 2.5 crore. Also, there are plans to develop a water sports complex at Thatipudi at a cost of Rs 3 crore, and a youth hostel in Vizianagaram town at an estimated cost of Rs 5 crore.
 
 Elaborating on the above mentioned projects, M Satyanarayana, CEO of SETVIZ (Self Employment Training Department, Vizianagaram), said: “We have embarked upon an ambitious plan to promote athletics and other disciplines, including racquet sports, skating, water sports (rowing, sailing) and popular traditional sports such as kabaddi in a big way. The total cost of all the projects, 14 in all, will be around Rs 134 crore.”
 
 Regarding the KVK to come up at G L Puram, he noted that unlike other KVKs the project cost will be more (Rs 2.5 crore) as the facility will also have a residential school, just like the one to be constructed at Thatipudi and at the Sir Vizzy stadium.
 
 Regarding the development of sports grounds in the rural hinterland of the district, collector Vivek Yadav, conducted a review meet with the SETVIZ officials. He said: “So far 51 sports grounds have been constructed and work on the water sports academy is under progress.” Regarding funds for the sports academy at Sir Vizzy stadium out of the Rs 100 crore that was allocated, Rs 20 crore has already been released and work is in progress, he said.
 
 
