Coimbatore: Three days after a case was registered against 10 DMK functionaries, including Singanallur MLA N Karthick for staging a protest in front of the illegal gutka manufacturing unit at Kannampalayam and obstructing a policeman from carrying out duty, Sulur police on Tuesday arrested seven of them and lodged them in the Coimbatore Central Prison for 15 days under judicial custody. Police have also formed a special team to nab Karthick and two others, who are on the run. Based on a tip, superintendent of police (SP) Pa Moorthy had on April 27 sent a special team led by additional superintendent of police GS Anitha to bust an illegal gutka manufacturing unit at Kannampalayam. The team conducted a surprise search and seized 3.24 lakh sachets of gutka, pan masala and raw materials to manufacture banned tobacco products from the unit on the same day. The very next day, a team of DMK functionaries led by Karthick arrived at the unit and requested police to let them inside. When police refused, they staged a protest in front of the unit and raised slogans against the state government. Sub-inspector V Manojkumar, who was deployed to guard the unit, lodged a case against the DMK functionaries, saying they had abused him and threatened to murder him when he didn’t allow them inside. Following this, Sulur police registered a case against 10 DMK functionaries under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapon), 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. On Tuesday early morning, police arrested DMK’s M Murugesan of Ranganathapuram, PS Selvaraj of Pallapalayam, R Paramasivam of Pappampatti, P Sureshkumar of Peedampalli, P Kabilan of Palllapalayam; KN Shanmugam of Kannampalayam and M Selvaraj of Ravathur. They were produced before a judicial magistrate, who remanded them in judicial custody for 15 days. They were subsequently lodged at the Coimbatore Central Prison. “MLA Karthick and two others are still at large. A special team has launched a manhunt for them,” a police source said. Meanwhile, DMK working president MK Stalin condemned police and the state government for foisting fake cases against his party men. In a statement, Stalin alleged that AIADMK government had been guarding health minister Vijayabaskar and director general of police TK Rajendran from the gutka scam. “The government is taking action against the opposition party leaders for bringing out the truth behind the scam. The fake case foisted against DMK functionaries should be withdrawn and the DGP and the health minister should be dismissed immediately,” Stalin demanded. DMK leaders are likely to lay siege to the SP’s office on State Bank of India Road on Wednesday to mark their protest against the police action.