NEW DELHI: The ongoing   drive has started having un-intended consequences, with students being forced to attend classes out in the open and right next to debris in at least one school in northwest Delhi for the past one week. 

 “A   team sealed all our rooms a week ago, leaving us with no space for the hundreds of students. Despite it being winter, we are organising classes in the courtyard as exams are approaching,” said V K Gandhi, the founding trustee and principal of   in Kirari’s Prem Nagar. The authorities claimed that eight children had already fallen ill. 
 
 Started in 1999, the school has over 550 students. All 16 classrooms and two halls meant for computer and science labs were sealed on January 30 for being “unauthorised constructions”. 
 
 Gandhi said the building had to be renovated as the old structure was developing cracks. “We have replied to all corporation notices.” The classes have been sealed as “we refused to pay a bribe of Rs 3 lakh”, Gandhi claimed. 
 
 Anushree Mazumdar, a student of Class VIII, said, “A friend of mine, Mansi, has got injured due to the debris. Some others have caught cold. But as the exams are close, we can’t afford to miss classes.” Chayan Pandey, a differently abled student, has a bigger problem. “Due to the condition of my foot, I can’t sit on the floor. After missing classes for three-four days, I am now sitting on a chair. But I am still facing problems as the ground is uneven.” The school has seen a 60% drop in the attendance. 
 
 The principal said the school had to break some seals, though the management hopes to get a relief till March 31. “Otherwise, we will move court,” Gandhi said.
 
 Vishu Sangwan, a teacher, said her job had been made more difficult at the most critical time of the session. “With just a few weeks left for the exams, we can’t even provide the kids with a proper studying environment.” 
 
 Corporation mayor Preety Agarwal said she had asked for a detailed report within 48 hours from the commissioner on the allegations and the school’s status. 
 
 AAP’s councillors have said they won’t let the house function till the classrooms are de-sealed. 
 
 
