Maps have been at the centre of civilisation, marking cosmic, historic, geographic, and political shifts in their painted, line drawn, and cartographic precision versions. Hyderabad’s much-feted annual art and culture festival,  , celebrates maps as its central theme this year, what with talks, walks, workshops and cultural shows wrapped around maps. But what’s most interesting for the Hyderabadi perhaps, are the rare Munn Maps of  , which were commissioned by the Nizam after the devastating 1908 floods, that are on display. These maps show us a Hyderabad — filled with gardens, lakes and bowdis, something that we can scarcely imagine today! 
In a tete-a-tete, art collector and gallerist  , who has painstakingly collected these maps over the past 15 years, reflects on the “magic of studying maps” spanning centuries, what maps taught him and why they are an important reflection of our past.
 
 
 Till I started collecting maps, I also thought them to be just another pieces of paper. But actually, every map has a story; a new aspect to share; every map has a history behind it. Unravelling that will tell anyone how a country or state or city changed over time. For instance, how many people know what Delhi was like before 1911? Or for that matter, the story of railways coming into India? I realised that no one was preserving or collecting old maps. So I made a conscious decision to find ancient maps that document facts like these and preserve them for posterity. these handmade paper maps become even more relevant in the times of digital maps. The whole subject is so fascinating! If someone has a map made in 1620, how on earth did they know where the cities and towns were, I wonder. Many of these early scientific maps of India were actually made in Europe. one had to travel the country for months to make the maps. 
 
 
 I have collected these maps over the past 15 years. Most of these are ancient Indian maps, that found their way outside India and have now made their way back. No regrets though, as they are often preserved better when they are in other countries. But unfortunately, people from other countries often do not know the significance of these maps. For instance, a 40-feet-long 18th century map of the Ganges, was cut into three pieces by a foreign collector. We have managed to collect two parts of the map, but the third is still out there. 
 
 
 I had the same apprehension when we showcased these maps at the National Museum, Delhi. but surprisingly, people loved it! They could see their own family history through these maps. Maps occupy an intellectual space, a space that questions the decisions we have taken as a society, shaping our race. Maps are a part of everyone’s life. People can see how things have evolved in their own surroundings and the other parts of the country. 
 Most of the maps on display are Indian maps from the 15th to the 20th century. The total focus of the collection is the Indian subcontinent. It has history, geography and interesting facts about culture, evolution and the human experience. These maps pan from cosmic to experiential to scientific. What many of us do not know is that it’s only after the 1800s that maps were done trigonometrically.
 We already have people who are expressing interest in researching some of these maps, especially the Munn maps which depict Hyderabad in very fine detail. Missing gardens, deodis, bowlis and all kinds of markers of our civilisation can be deciphered from them. So I see maps as a public experience. it involves all of us, really. 
 
 
 The Munn Maps, a set of over 300 maps of the city of Hyderabad, were developed by Colonel Leonard Munn, who was an Army Engineer and responsible for setting up telegraph infrastructure and detailed geographical surveys in India. These extremely detailed maps, where even trees are marked, were commissioned by the Nizam after the devastating floods in the early 1900s. It took three years to complete the project. It is for people to see what has happened to the lakes, gardens, bowdis of Hyderabad, and it will get people to sit up and ask about how we have changed the city from a city of gardens to what it is today. You can see much, for instance, how the whole Charminar area has changed or the Secretariat has changed. A photograph does not tell everything. For instance, how many people know there was a light railway that ran from the Secretariat to Gandipet? It is a subject of exploration.
 
 
 Oh yes! In fact, maps have impacted decisions from conquests to city planning and everything in between. For instance, there is a map that changed the future of India, and the conditions of Europe. In 1595, a tell-all book with maps by Jan Huyghen Van Linschoten, spoke of how to sail into India, who at the time were actually pro and anti-Portuguese, and who one should connect with if venturing into this country. That book changed everything. Within a year, the Dutch   was formed and they sailed into India guided by this map. We could call it the biggest espionage in the world economic history. maybe we would have had the Portuguese, and not British ruling us, if these maps were not made at that time.
 
 
