GURUGRAM: The city’s   might have made the ride easy for motorists, but none has an emergency protocol in place. Both   and National Highways Authority of India ( ) have not yet submitted a report on the evacuation plan for the underpasses, despite the Gurugram deputy commissioner fixing a 10-day deadline last month.

 In fact, deputy commissioner   held a meeting on February 22 and had asked the engineering departments of NHAI and Huda to submit a report on evacuation plan for underpasses in case of an emergency in the next 10 days for the benefit of traffic police, fire department and the public.
 
 Sources, however, said none of the agencies has adhered to the deadline.
 
 A recent accident inside the Medanta underpass demonstrated the need for lighting during the day in the underpass and requisite safety instructions in the underpasses. A biker was killed in the accident earlier this week after a speeding car mowed him down inside the underpass, police said. 
 
 “The authorities respond only when there is an accident. If a report is made in advance, then it will come handy at the time of an accident or an emergency situation,” said a city-based road safety expert.
 
 The plan, which will consist of a safety protocol including the evacuation plan if the underpass is blocked due to a fire, or any other natural calamity, will direct officials, including the emergency response teams, the fire department as well as the traffic department officials on what their role should be in case of such an emergency.
 
 According to experts, Gurugram has the highest number of underpasses among the north Indian cities and is in urgent need to make an evacuation plan. 
 
 There are 13 underpasses in the city, including seven in   and Cyber City area, two in Rajiv Chowk and one near Medanta. Of these, two underpasses are yet to become functional, and several others are being planned.
 
 NHAI officials did not respond to queries.
 
 A senior Huda official said, “The engineering department of Huda has been directed to make the plan and submit it for approval at the earliest.”
 
 
 
