BHARUCH/SURAT:  , police got a whiff of an insider's hand in the loot as the versions of the incident as narrated Sheetal, 40 and son nine-year-old son were in complete contrast. While Sheetal told police that the assailants made her unconscious too, the son stated that his mother had got scared and told him to rush into other room,  

 On questioning the neighbours, they found that tenant Lingappa, 38, was not at his home ever since incident. They further questioned Sheetal who finally broke down and revealed about her affair with   and her sour relationship with husband. Lingappa had used his Karnataka connections and contacted history-sheeter Narayan Shalian in Mangalore who agreed to the money-sharing deal and sent three notorious criminals to execute the plan.
 
 “Itching for revenge, Sheetal had made up her mind to destroy her husband financially. She informed Lingappa about the place where Rs 3.5 crore were stashed in bags. As per the plan hatched around 15 days before the loot, she had kept the doors deliberately open for the criminals to enter,” said police. 
 
 On April 15, Lingappa met Salian at Mangalore to finalize the plan. Now, Gujarat police have informed their Goa counterparts about his location in their state so that he can be nabbed and brought here.
 
 Abhay Chudasama, Vadodara Range inspector general of police (IG) told media persons, “Police got to know that the Ertiga car registered in Goa was used by the criminals.   sfootage of toll plazas at Kamrej and Mandva on NH 48 were checked. In all, 18 cars of Goa registration were traced of which only one car GA-8M-2426 crossed after an hour from the robbery.” 
 
 Sandip Singh, superintendent of police, Bharuch told: TOI: "Mansukh Radadiya is owns a pharma company and dealing in real estate too. He had received the huge from a deal of two plots of land. However, police will conduct an in-depth investigation about the source of money. The relationship between husband and wife was very bitter as their thought processes were poles apart. She was fond of luxuries whereas the husband was miser.” 
 
 The team that cracked the case included Bharuch LCB police inspector Sunil Tarde, sub-inspectors SJ Zala, AS Chauhan, Ankleshwar GIDC police station inspector RK Dhulia and PSI KJ Dhaduk
 
 Trio stayed in highway hotel
 
 Bharuch: The three criminals from Karnataka had stayed at in a highway hotel near Kim, 35 km from Ankleshwar on NH-8 while conducting the reccee of Radadiya’s bungalow. A team of cops had started checking hotels on NH 48 to know check-in and check-out of commuters who had stayed there. They got to know that these three had stayed in Kim Palace Hotel for three nights and had submitted their identity proofs too. On the basis of this, police acertained involvement of this gang guided by Lingappa. The trio was identified as Rakesh D’Souza, 35, from Kankanady, Mohammad Sadik Yusuf, 34 from Manglore and Ashok Bala Pandhrekar of Margao in south Goa. 
 
 Criminals used walkie-talkies not mobiles
 
 Bharuch: The history-sheeters had deliberately not used their mobile phones while executing crime so that police is unable to find their location. Instead they used walkie-talkies to communicate on April 28. After reaching Mumbai with the booty, they left their cell phones in a taxi. With support of the technical team, police traced the location as well as reached the taxi driver. He told that the three were discussing about going to Goa. With the help of Goa police, they traced the car, whose number they had already had, to a resort in Goa. With the help of spare room key of the resort, they arrested two of them from the room itself and recovered Rs 2.04 crore cash from them. The third accused was also caught from the resort.
 
 
