NEW DELHI: Double Olympic medallist Sushil Kumar’s name was curiously missing from the list of entries put out by the   organisers for the  , leaving the authorities in India perplexed. The final list was made available on the   official website (www.gc2018.com) on Thursday.

 
 
 
 The men’s freestyle 74kg wrestling page under ‘Entries by Event’ in the official site, does not contain Sushil’s name among the total of 15 entries of participating wrestlers. Sushil’s name should have been the 16th. In the rest of the men’s and women’s freestyle wrestling categories – totalling 11 – the names of other Indian competitors prominently figured.
 
 The omission of Sushil’s name set alarm bells ringing, giving rise to the speculation whether the Glasgow CWG gold medallist has pulled out of the event. It prompted one of the personal coaches of Sushil to even question, “Entries of Indians in other weight categories are there, but why only Sushil’s name is missing? Is there more to something than meets the eye?”
 
 Sushil’s build-up to the Games was marred by a bloodied selection trial, where the elder brother of his fiercest competitor,  , was allegedly thrashed by the supporters of Sushil at the IGI stadium here. No one in either the   (WFI) or the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) had a clue of what has actually happened, with both sports bodies assuring that all formalities concerning the sending of entries had been complete from their end.
 
 
  
  
 
 It is learnt the double Olympic medallist spent his day calling up the WFI and IOA offices from his training base in Georgia to check on the lapse in the entries list. Sushil is training in Georgia since March 20 as part of his preparations for the April 4 to 15 CWG.
 
 When WFI’s assistant Vinod Tomar was asked about the issue, he said the IOA has been informed since it’s their job to send the entries and apply for visa accreditation. "One of the earlier lists shared by the IOA had Sushil’s name. This time, after the update, it doesn’t show his entry. We are clear as the WFI had duly sent his entry," he said.
 
 An IOA official informed that Sushil’s accreditation was processed by them. "We don’t know how his entry has gone missing. Strange part is that it is Sushil and no one else. Contingent staff members in Gold Coast will be talking to the organisers."
 
 
 
 
 
