VIJAYAWADA: The Telugu Desam Party’s decision to break its alliance with the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance is likely to have a negative impact on Andhra Pradesh’s ability to raise funds from overseas sources to bankroll its ambitious development plans.

 
 Talking to TOI, C Ramachandraiah of the Hyderabadbased Centre for Economic & Social Studies (CESS) said the   could seek retribution, through economic route, for AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu’s decision to exit the four-year alliance.
 
 “All foreign loans to  , or any other state in the Indian Union, need a counter-guarantee by the central government for the loans to be approved. In December, the   sought an additional six months’ time to consider a request for an enquiry into complaints from farmers before extending a $300 million loan to AP. This was after the World Bank took cognisance of the complaints filed by farmers in the Amaravati region that the government had commandeered their land in the name of land-pooling to build the new capital city of Amaravati,” Dr Ramachandraiah, who is also a member of the CESS’ board of governors, said over telephone.
 
 The $300 million loan is for the Amaravati Sustainable Capital City development project. It was part of a larger loan request of $720 million for the capital project. The World Bank deferred a decision on whether to institute a probe into the farmers’ complaint regarding the acquisition of land. Andhra Pradesh has ‘pooled’ 33,000 acres of perennially-irrigated land, which supported the cultivation of at least three crops a year, with the ambitious plan to build the capital city.
 
 According to Ramachandraiah, it will probably become difficult, if not impossible, for the AP government to get the World Bank loan now that the TDP is no longer a part of the   government, which can delay the signing of the counter-guarantee.
 
 “It is not the World Bank alone that seeks a counter-guarantee. Even the Japanese overseas lending agencies are now seeking a counter-guarantee to extend loans,” Dr Ramachandraiah added.
 
 The TDP-BJP divorce is also likely to adversely impact the state’s plans to get loans for its ambitious Vijayawada Metro project, he said. “AP will find it difficult to go for commercial borrowings given the public spat between Naidu and the Centre over the exit,” said K Srirama Murthy, professor of economics at Andhra University in Visakhapatnam.
 
