CHANDIGARH: Sushila, the third accused arrested in the HC paper leak case, had sold one plot so that she could pay a ‘considerate amount’ to get the leaked question paper from mastermind  . All the documents related to this had been kept by Sushila at her maternal home at   village in Haryana. To get all the documents, the Chandigarh district court further extended Sushila’s police custody for two more days. Also, the police were able to recover a mobile phone from Sushila, broken on Sunita’s directions. The police has send the broken mobile phone to the   (CFSL) to recover all the necessary data to substantiate their case.

 After Sushila’s two-day police remand ended on Tuesday, she was produced in the court of civil judge Imanbir Dhaliwal, where the police sought four more days of police remand, but the court granted only two days of police remand for her. The prosecution argued that the police wanted to recover all the documents of the plot she sold, so that they could complete their investigation. Cops stated that Sushila sold one plot in order to pay a considerable amount to procure the leaked question paper from Sunita. It was also argued that Sushila had kept all these documents in her maternal home in Charki Dadri. To this, Sunita defended herself in court, stating that she had not visited Charki Dadri for the past two years, and had always cooperated with the police and appeared in front of SIT whenever required.
 
 However, police achieved success in recovering one broken mobile phone from Sunita’s possession. The police also stated that the mobile phone was used by Sushila to record her conversation with Sunita. Also, this phone was broken by Sushila on Sunita’s directions. Though the phone was broken, police had sent it to CFSL to recover all the data.
 
 The SIT has arrested mastermind Sunita, former registrar of HC recruitment Balwinder Kumar Sarma, and Sunita in the case. A charheshetet against Sunita and Balwinder Sharma has also been submitted in the court.
 
 HOW THE CASE UNFOLDED
 
 The entire scam was unearthed after   — a resident of Pinjore in Panchkula district — had filed a petition in the high court, seeking registration of a criminal case into the leakage of the question paper for the examination of the prestigious services. She had produced an audio recording of some candidates claiming that most of the seats for the selection of candidates had already been sold for Rs1.5 crore, and the selection of candidates had already been finalized. She had specifically named two woman candidates (Sunita and Sushila), claiming they were involved in the scam.
 
 Later, the court had found both Sunita (general category) and Sushila (reserved category) had topped the examination with exceptionally high marks in their respective categories. The high court’s internal probe had also found Balwinder responsible for the leak of the examination paper to Sunita. The probe committee had recommended registration of an FIR in the case.
 
