MUMBAI: While the SIT probing the Govind   murder seemed to concede it wasn't making much headway, additional solicitor general Anil Singh told the court the   was not letting up in its probe into activist Narendra  's killing and its officers were "not bereft of ideas" about the investigation procedures. The advocates said calls of relatives and friends of the accused were being monitored to trace the absconding accused. 

 A division bench of Justice   and Justice   said it did not want to be in a position to give "false hopes" to the victims' families and hoped investigations would be taken to their logical end. Dabholkar was shot on August 20, 2013 in Pune, while Pansare was shot at in   and died on February 20, 2015.
 
 The court expressed the hope that this would not become a case like some of the blasts cases where the accused turn up decades later. It said it was not casting aspersions on the investigation teams or saying they were not working, but there was a problem and they had to find ways to tackle it, whether through new investigation techniques or technology. The court said it did not find much progress and noted that it was giving an opportunity to the investigation team to trace the absconding accused. The HC has scheduled further hearing of the case on June 28.
 
 The bench expressed concern that India's image was taking a beating in the world due to incidents of crime and no proper investigations. "It is unfortunate that some incidents occur in parts of the country and for outsiders their image of India is that there is nothing but crime and rape," said the bench. "Their impression is that this is a place where liberal, open-minded and secular people are not safe," the bench said while hearing a public interest litigation about investigations into the killings.
 
 The bench observed, "Given that such crimes are on the rise, the nation is confronted with criticism and one has to face a barrage of questions if the life (sic) of like-minded liberal and secular individuals are safe in the country," said the court. The judges said "if writers, literary figures, artists, social activists do not feel safe in the country," then like-minded people from across the world would not like to be associated with the people of India. This would affect exchange of ideas. No international organisation wants to be associated with educational, cultural or other set-ups from India. Investors show initial enthusiasm and then pull out and even institutions like the judiciary are not spared, the court said. "How does one progress? Can we live in a cocoon?" the bench asked.
 
 
