NEW DELHI: The   has sounded the poll bugle for 2019 parliamentary elections. Making an early start, the government has initiated an in-house exercise to examine how it has fared on promises made in 2014 and plans an ad blitzkrieg to showcase success stories and counter negative narratives on policy decisions.

 The exercise involves identifying sector-wise success stories, projects stalled during   regime and resuscitated by Modi government, progress on Cabinet decisions and promises made in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s speeches.
 
 The BJP’s 2014 manifesto is being studied threadbare by a team which has sought inputs from all ministries on the progress of specific promises and policy decisions. According to highlyplaced sources, a special emphasis is being laid on election-going states of Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan. Each of the ministries has been asked to flag how the policies and flagship programmes of   government have been beneficial to these states.
 
 Sources said the team has been tasked with identifying issues where the government is facing flak of the Opposition. A government official, who did not wish to be identified, told ET, “The government is identifying various issues where it is facing a negative narrative in Parliament and the media. 
 
 Specific advertisement campaigns would be designed to counter these negative narratives.” Apart from ad campaigns, senior ministers would be deputed to counter these issues in advance. “A strategy would be framed to counter these in a proper manner,” said the official adding, “ministries would be given the list of such tricky issues and asked to give data-based information whereever possible so that negative narratives can be turned around. A proper timeline would be prepared to counter these narratives.
 
 This would mean first putting out an ad campaign and then deputing ministers to set the record straight.” How meticulous the in-house exercise is can be gauged by the fact that the advertisement campaigns would be tailormade on the basis of   (SECC). The team is studying SECC to gauge how best the government’s messaging can be pushed across to various groups including radio in a state with higher tribal population or minorities,” said the official.
 
 Sources confirmed that the Press Information Bureau (PIB), would be actively involved in the exercise. When contacted PIB principal director general Frank Noronha said, “I am not aware of any such exercise.”
 
