BENGALURU: The head start the BJP hoped to gain from its first list of candidates for the May 12 elections has, instead, turned into a headache with dissent breaking out in its ranks. Conscious that disgruntled leaders could upset its applecart, the BJP is now assuaging their feelings.

 The first flag of dissent was raised by the party’s Bengaluru city spokesperson N R Ramesh, who wanted to contest from Chickpet. With the party nominating Uday Garudachar, who lost to Congress candidate R V Devaraj in 2013, Ramesh quit his party post on Monday. “I am disappointed that loyalty and hard work has been ignored,” he said, adding that he would decide on his future course in another two days.
 
 Ramesh’s supporters are already speaking of him contesting as a rebel. Blaming senior party leaders, including R Ashoka and H N Ananth Kumar, for denial of the ticket, they launched a protest in front of Ashoka’s residence and forced shops and establishments in Yediyur to shut.
 
 BJP’s move to field turncoat Mallikarjuna Khuba, who recently quit the JD(S), from Basavakalyan in Bidar, has angered senior BJP leader Basavaraj Patil Attur, who wanted the ticket for his son Lingaraj Patil Attur. Attur’s supporters clashed with Khuba’s on Monday in Basavakalyan, and one of Attur’s men even attempted self-immolation.
 
 After much speculation, BJP veteran K S Eshwarappa landed the ticket from Shivamogga City. This, however, created heartburn for S Rudre Gowda, runner-up in the last elections when Eswharappa came in third. After B S Yeddyurappa returned to the BJP, Gowda was a hopeful.
 
 In Bailhongal of Belagavi, senior BJP leader Jagadish Metgud is furious after the party gave the ticket to Viswanath Patil. Metgud was defeated by Patil, then a Karnataka Janata Party (KJP) candidate, in the last election. “I will consult my supporters and voters before deciding on my next move,” said Metgud.
 
 Basavaraj Patil Yatnal, who returned to the BJP recently, was fielded from Vijayapura (City), angering Appasaheb Pattanashetty, former minister and unsuccessful candidate in the last elections. The situation is similar in Afzalpur in Kalaburagi and Hungund in Bagalkot. In Bengaluru, dissidence is worrying the BJP in Govindaraj Nagar, Malleswaram and Basavanagudi. BBMP councillor Umesh Shetty is upset with veteran V Somanna contesting from Govindaraj Nagar.
 
 
 
