NARSINGHPUR: They say even the dead are not safe in  .

 In a recent accident, people carrying a body for a funeral were hit by a vehicle from behind. The body almost fell off their shoulders. “The poor man would have died a second death,” said Namichand, a villager.
 
 Narsinghpur is village split into two by the Delhi-Jaipur expressway. Located on either side of the highway near   toll plaza, this village of around 15,000 has seen the highest number of fatal   in the district over the past few years, mostly involving people trying to cross the road. Flanked by a Tata Motors showroom and factory units on both sides of the highway, Narsinghpur houses predominantly members of the Gujjar community and a significant population of migrant labourers from Bengal and Bihar.
 
 Though official figures put the number of accidents along the highway in Narsinghpur to a mere six in 2016 and eight the year before, the villagers say not less than 40-50 people fall prey to   accidents every year.
 
  
  
 The villagers can’t help but cross the deadly highway every day. While the schools, hospitals and banks are located on one side, the other side has the agricultural fields.
 
 Septuagenarian Harkesh claims to have seen it all. “I’ve heard of at least 400 people from the village and the vicinity who have died in accidents since this highway was built.”
 
 Harkesh believes he has been lucky. He had met with an accident too and it has mostly restricted him to a chair. The 70-year-old now walks with a prosthetic leg and a stick. The villagers say the highway was initially supposed to skirt Narsinghpur. But it was the villagers who volunteered to give land for the project in the hope that once the highway was built, it would push up realty prices.
 
 The lal dora land of Narsinghpur, the residential part of the village mentioned in the records, is located on the west of the highway. The eastern side has the farm lands, much of which has been sold off to builders and industrialists. A number of villagers, too, have built houses on the eastern side as the other part is chock-a-block.
 
 “We used to cross the road even when the houses had not been built there. The buffaloes and farm lands were all on the other side. We had to go to cultivate the land,” says Harkesh, who now lives in a two-storied house with two of his sons and their families.
 
 One of his sons, however, lives on the other side. “I have to wait for my sons to arrive. They drive me to the other side.”
 
 Even if he were fit to walk, Harkesh says, he wouldn’t have dared cross the road on foot. Eleven years ago, Harkesh was returning from a wedding on the eastern side. He had crossed one flank of the road, jumped over the divider, and had just stepped on to the other side when a truck hit him. “I lay on the road bleeding and my brother came running. I lost my leg in the accident,” he says.
 
 Kawar Pal (31) has a similar story to tell. Pal was returning from a wedding on the western side when a speeding vehicle hit him. He has had three surgeries on his legs and is awaiting a fourth. “I may have to sell off my house to be able to afford my treatment,” says Kawar, who lives with his elderly parents. “Others have died. I have survived to tell the tale.”
 
 Sitting along with Harkesh and Kawar is another middle-aged man, Shyoram, who lost his wife, brother and two sons in accidents on the same stretch in a gap of five years.
 
 Almost everyone in this village has some stories to share about accidents. “You can’t imagine what most of us have gone through,” says Jasbir Bedi, the son of the former sarpanch.
 
 Bedi says repeated appeals to local politicians and district authorities resulted in a foot over-bridge (FOB) three years ago, but that has been of little help. The FOB is located 400 metres away from the entry and exit points of the two parts of Narsinghpur.
 
 Each time the villagers raise the issue of accidents, the authorities shut off the 6-feet fence built along the divider, forcing the residents to use the  . “How many times will you walk up and down to the bridge? Everyone gets tired and tries to take the short cut. That’s when the accident happens,” says Dharambir, another resident.
 
 “In more than 80% of the cases, we do not approach the police. If a person dies in an accident, we just cremate him. What is the point in tearing up the dead?” asked Bedi, indicating that the actual number of deaths could be much higher than the administration’s figures.
 
 The villagers claim the police have a major jurisdiction problem. Since Narsinghpur was split into two, one part came under Badshahpur and the other was under Kherki Dhaula until the Sector 37 police station came up recently.
 
 Officials say 6-10 people die in accidents on the highway in Narsinghpur every year. In 2016, there were six deaths and eight in 2015.
 
 The villagers, however, differ on the numbers. “I know at least 40-50 people who have died in accidents,” says Bedi, as he and Dharambir start recollecting names. “Each house has had at least one death, if not more.” The villagers allege they have been at the receiving end of the administration’s apathy.
 
 “We have written to Nitin Gadkari (Union road transport and highways minister) and approached local politicians. But our demand for a subway is always denied,” a villager says. “All villages along the highway have underpasses except us,” says Sanjeev Bedi, another resident.
 
 Gurugram deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said the administration was aware of the problem. “We had installed grills in the median to encourage people to take the foot over bridge and not cross the highway on foot. That is extremely risky,” he said. Singh said he would “analyse” the villagers’ demand for an underpass.
 
 
