JALANDHAR: After passing away of senior Akali leader Manjit Singh Calcutta, top Dal Khalsa leaders have made an interesting revelation about his role in conveying a message to Pakistan dictator Gen Zia-ul-Haq in 1982 about five Sikhs who had hijacked an   flight to Pakistan and had been prosecuted there. Even as Calcutta always remained in mainstream SAD, he engaged with Sikh activists of different shades.

 One of the Dal Khalsa founders and leader of the hijackers’ group, Gajinder Singh, who after serving his sentence in Pakistan did not return to India, in his Facebook post on Thursday while paying tributes to Calcutta revealed that the late leader whispered “some good things” in Zia’s ears in 1982 when he was leading a jatha to Pakistan. However, Dal Khalsa spokesperson   Singh in his FB post on Thursday not only paid tributes to the late Sikh leader but also provided more details about the meeting with Zia while claiming that Calcutta himself revealed these to him.
 
 “When after hijacking the plane I was lodged in Lahore jail, Calcutta came to Pakistan as leader of Sikh jatha to Sikh shrines in Pakistan. At that time I only saw his pictures in newspapers but later somebody told me that during his meeting with Zia, Calcutta while hugging Pakistani president whispered some good things about me and the latter responded with a smile,” wrote Gajinder on his FB wall. 
 
 Throwing more light on the incident, Kanwarpal in his FB post said that Calcutta himself talked about the details of this meeting and revealed that he, in fact, conveyed a message from the then SGPC chief, Gurcharan Singh Tohra, to the Pakistani president. “Calcutta often told me that when a delegation of the SGPC, which was part of the Sikh jatha, went to meet Zia before leaving for India, an Indian high commission official was also accompanying them and he was never leaving them alone during the meeting. When they were finally taking Zia’s leave and exchanging final pleasantries, just while walking out he whispered in Zia’s ears that   had sent a message that ‘our four boys are with you, please take care of them’. Then Zia smiled and asked him to tell Tohra ‘don’t worry about them’,” Kanwarpal wrote. 
 
 “The hijackers later revealed after returning to India that there was big ‘positive’ difference in the attitude of Pakistani authorities towards them in the jail,” said Kanwarpal while speaking to TOI on Thursday. He also posted a picture of Calcutta, along with former IAS officer and Sikh author Gurtej Singh and SGPC member Karnail Singh Panjoli, releasing a book authored by Gajinder.
 
 Plane hijacking
 
 Dal Khalsa activists led by Gajinder Singh had hijacked IA flight from Delhi to Srinagar on September 29, 1981, and landed in Lahore, where they were caught in commando action by Pakistani forces. They had demanded release of Jarnail Singh  , who was arrested nine days before September 20 in connection with murder of a Hindi newspaper editor, but was later released after nothing came out against him. They were also demanding release of other Sikh prisoners and compensation for the family of Sikhs killed in police firing on September 20, 1981, during a protest before Bhindranwale’s arrest at Mehta village, near Amritsar.
 
 
