KOLKATA: The State Election Commission (SEC) said on Sunday that rural poll candidates who have already withdrawn from the contest in a particular seat on April 12 cannot file nominations in that seat again. The SEC, however, said it would not stop such candidates from filing nominations from other seats. Following the   order, the four-hour window for filing nominations opens at 11am on Monday.

 The commission has convened an allparty meeting during the day to decide on probable poll dates. On Saturday, the commission issued a re-worked schedule, fixing April 28 as the last date of nomination withdrawal.
 
 Congress and   have already threatened to move the Calcutta High Court again on Monday over the lack of clarity in the commission’s Saturday’s notification. The SEC has asked the DMs to ensure that nomination-filing process on Monday takes place without “any obstruction”.
 
 The SEC, in a three-page notice to all DMs on Sunday, chose to clear the air on several legal posers after the HCs Friday order to reschedule the poll process and allow fresh nominations. The SEC, while holding the withdrawals valid, directed that since nominations are to be filed afresh, the scrutiny will have to be done completely afresh.
 
 But the opposition parties are not happy. According to sources, the state Congress is likely to move the court on Monday alleging that the new SEC order has not kept any window to political parties to allay their grievances. “In its earlier notification, the commission had allowed gram panchayat candidates to submit their nominations to the returning officers in SDO and   offices. According to the present notification, they have to file nominations in BDO offices only, which might result in trouble,” said state Congress president  . While Chowdhury will not move the court in person, a general secretary of the party will lodge a petition with the high court, sources said. “The single bench of the high court had quashed the April 10 notification of the SEC which recalled the extension order for nomination. It is evident that the April 9 notification has been upheld by the court in its entirety,” said a Congress leader.
 
 BJP’s legal cell member   said, “The April 21 notification is not in line with Justice Subrata Talukdar’s judgment. The order of the Calcutta High Court has not been adhered to, despite repeated representations and requests.”
 
