HYDERABAD: A team of historians and archaeology enthusiasts discovered sonorous rocks on the borders of   and   in Telangana. Sonorous rocks or lithophonic rocks are rocks that give out a musical sound when struck. 

 The sonorous rock formation stretches over 25km. Experts are asking the state government to declare the stretch a heritage park and promote it the way Potts Grove rocks are in Pennsylvania, US.
 
 Historian Reddy  , who led the team, said, "These rocks are 10-30 feet high and are located on the borders of the two districts. They are located 16 miles from Jangaon town. They are locally called Solamile Ene. The prehistoric man lived here. Physicists say that these rocks may have formed 200 million years ago due to lava ejecting onto the surface. The sound of the rocks depends on the density of ferric oxide in them. Usually, the ferrous percentage is 9-12%. In Telangana, there are a few places that have these rocks, but this stretch is the oldest." 
 
 The stretch passes through Bonakollur, Bandnagaram, Katkur and   in Siddipet and Veerannpet, Chunchanakota, Nagapuri, Jangamredypally in Jangaon. "History of ages is told through these rocks. In Jangaon, at Narayanswamy Temple at Bonakollur, Garuda statutes and shank chakra are sculpted on the sonorous rocks to the rear side. There are cairns (locally known as rakasi gullu). Researchers also found a stone age axe here. At Banda Nagaram, the rocks form a bund to a lake," said Reddy. He further said that at Katkur, there are statues of heroes (Veragallu) belonging to Kakatiya period. At the same place, petroglyphs are seen. At Jamala, researches found statutes of Nagadevata.
 
 In Verannapet, researchers found indications that people used to sharpen stone tools there. "There are several stone paintings. These belong to the Neolithic age. Telangana's biggest petroglyph is located here," said Reddy. At Chunchanakota, Satahavahana-era tools were found. At Jangamredypalle, researches found menhirs and stone circles. 
 
 Reddy said, "It's high time government declares this area as national heritage site and safeguard it. At some places, the rocks have been lost due to human interference." Th state archaeological department in-charge assistant director B Ganga Devi told TOI, "We came to know about these rocks and structures through historian Ratnakar Reddy. We are yet to visit the spot. We are currently focusing on Warangal." 
 
 
