CHANDIGARH: Strongly opposing the bail plea of a boy allegedly involved in the killing of a seven-year-old student of Gurgaon school, the CBI has made it clear that it has enough evidence to substantiate his (Class XI student) involvement in the case. The CBI has also asserted that searches/access of internet by the accused, before and after the commission of crime, reflect his intention to commit the crime and to escape from the clutches of law after the offence.

 In a detailed reply filed before the Punjab and Haryana high court in response to the accused’s bail plea, the premier agency has also submitted that if released on bail, the accused may influence the witnesses and even abscond, which would hamper the course of investigation.
 
 Referring to the accused as “Bholu”, the CBI through its counsel   submitted that investigations have revealed that he used to surf internet and browse various social networking sites, music, pornography and gaming by using the internet connectivity from his mobile device, ‘RedMi Note 3’ and his mail ID configured on the same. 
 
 The mobile was seized by the CBI and complete record of searches made by him from July 11 to November 2, 2017 also retrieved.
 
 “The investigation conducted by CBI revealed that ‘Bholu’ made internet searches about poisoning, various poisons, their effects and sources during August–September 2017 and the same was downloaded by CBI during the course of investigation in the presence of independent witnesses and member  ,” Goel told the HC.
 
 It was further stated that the accused, after committing the crime, had searched various sites on September 19, 2017 on Google to find out how to wipe out fingerprints from the scene of crime.
 
 On September 8, 2017, the seven-year-old victim’s body was found inside the toilet of the school, with his throat slit. Initially, the matter was investigated by the Haryana police, which had booked the school bus conductor for killing the Class II student. However, the case was later referred to CBI for probe and the agency had arrested ‘Bholu’, a Class XI student of the same school for murder.
 
 
 
