NEW DELHI:   always had a special relationship with India. As a 19-year-old back in 2007, Shvedova announced her arrival on the WTA circuit with her first major title at the Bangalore Open.

 
 The Kazakhstan star, known more for her prowess these days on the doubles circuit, bid her time on the sidelines at the RK Khanna tennis stadium here in the Capital. An ankle injury back in June last year meant that she had to abruptly end her partnership with   after the pair had managed to reach the semifinals of the Rome Masters.
 
 "I have great memories of coming to India especially Bangalore. I had won my first major tournament there and I have come to India few more times after that. I have 3 or 4 sarees in my cupboard that I can keep on rotating. I am happy to come back to India again because I am very interested in yoga and Hindu religion. Hopefully I can come back not just for tennis but go around the country and get see more beautiful places in India," Shvedova told TOI on the sidelines of the   Asia-Oceania Group I playoff matches on Thursday.
 
 "I was always interested in yoga and I attended a seminar in Astana about it last year. When I went to get my Indian visa at the embassy, I asked them if they have a cultural centre in Astana. I'll try and visit Indian cultural centre in Astana because I feel the Hindu religion is very close to human nature. It's very different from Bible or Quran. I am starting to read the Bhagwad Gita as well and I find it really interesting," Shvedova, who was offered the position of Fed Cup captain, said.
 
 Shvedova, who won the 2010 Wimbledon and   doubles title with  , was ranked as high as No. 3 in doubles and No. 25 in singles on the  . "I played with Sania in the clay season but I told her that I am not 100 per cent fit and she should look for someone else, because she was going for championships. I was talking to Sania yesterday and said to her as a joke that you are not playing these days because I am not playing!" Shvedova, who is yet to recover from an ankle surgery, said.
 
 The 30-year-old is also one of only seven players to record a golden set - winning every single point in a set - in the professional era. She achieved this feat at the 2012 Wimbledon in her match against  , the only time a golden set was recorded in a Grand Slam. Asked about her opinion on India's No. 1 singles player Ankita Raina, she said, "Ankita showed great mental prowess. She was fighting till the end. Ankita must have been really tired after playing both singles and doubles but didn't show that on court. She is very consistent and I like the way she moves on the court and opens the angles. I think with time and more experience she will keep getting better."
 
 For now, Shvedova is fulfilling her role as the senior player to the utmost and enjoying her time under the Delhi winter sun!
 
