NEW DELHI: A   a   named Gaurav Gupta   in the compound of a  , the Delhi   stepped in.

 Justice Mukta Gupta on Thursday   the   of a   at   for the autopsy on the plea of the deceased’s mother who has also sought a CBI investigation into the death. HC also asked the DCP of south district to preserve CCTV footage of the DRI office and the nearby area, and the shop of Gupta, if available. 
 
 Issuing notices to DRI and Delhi Police, HC gave the probe agency a day’s time to file a status report explaining its stand and posted the case for hearing on Friday.
 
 In her urgent petition, Manju Gupta alleged that DRI officers raided the shop and residence of her son and took him along with them once the raid ended on Wednesday. She also alleged that after some time, a call came from DRI demanding Rs 1.5 crore and the officers threatened her to comply if she wanted her son to be spared torture. 
 
 The petitioner also claimed that on Wednesday itself when Gupta’s elder brother Nitin went to the DRI office, he was told about his being shifted to a Lodhi Road hospital. When Nitin reached the hospital, he saw his brother on a stretcher and torture marks on his body, the petitioner alleged. She further alleged that even after all that, the family wasn’t informed about what had happened to Gupta; they learnt it from the media. 
 
 Appearing for the mother, senior advocate Kirti Uppal and advocate Vijay Aggarwal demanded an independent investigation into Gupta’s death, pointing towards the suspicious circumstances.
 
 The lawyers also placed before court a copy of the press release issued by DRI where it claimed that Gupta, from whose shops and residence smuggled goods had been found, ended his life by jumping from the window of the DRI office’s visitor room. It claimed that Gupta was neither summoned nor arrested and he visited the DRI office on his own accord.
 
 The mother also asked for an autopsy by a medical board consisting of eminent doctors from AIIMS and other private hospitals and added that the body be preserved till the plea is settled. She also demanded the call records of her son and DRI officers preserved for a fair probe. 
 
 
