MUMBAI: In a setback to the Shiv Sena, the anti-corruption bureau on Wednesday booked its corporator Parmeshwar Kadam under the Prevention of Corruption Act for possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. 

 “It is probably for the first time in the BMC’s history that a corporator has been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act for possessing disproportionate assets,” said a high-ranking bureaucrat. 
 
 Offences under the Prevention of Corruption Act Section 13 (1-e) (criminal misconduct by a public servant) and Section 13 (2) that provides for punishment, have been registered against Kadam. Kadam was elected to the   in 2007 for the first time. In the subsequent election, his wife was elected from Kamraj Nagar. In 2017, Kadam was again elected to the BMC as an MNS nominee. However in October 2016, Kadam and other MNS corporators Dilip Lande, Archana Bhalerao, Snehal More, Datta Narvankar and Ashwini Matekar joined Sena in presence of chief Uddhav Thackeray. 
 
 Addressing the media after inducting the corporators, Uddhav, in an apparent reference to the fact that MNS is an offshoot of Shiv Sena, said nobody should accuse Sena of “poaching” as this was a “homecoming”.
 
 The MNS, which had emerged as a big player in 2012 BMC election after winning 29 seats, was reduced to just seven seats in 2017. 
 
 Following the large-scale defection of representatives, BJP MP Kirit Somaiya had lodged a complaint with the anti-corruption bureau, alleging that there was horse trading in the entire episode. There was a specific complaint against Kadam as to how he illegally mobilized assets and properties by corrupt means. The ACB probed into his assets for a period between February 2007 and February 2012. Kadam was unable to explain the income of Rs 13.09 lakh, nearly 64% more than his known sources of income. “We have registered an offence against Kadam, investigation is still in progress. We will complete the procedure and file the chargesheet before the stipulated period,” said an official. 
 
 Under Section 13 (1-e) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, a public servant is said to commit the offence of criminal misconduct if he cannot satisfactorily account for assets disproportionate to income sources.
 
