MUMBAI: Refusing to stay the opening of monorail over fire safety concerns raised by residents of a Wadala highrise, the Bombay high court told them wait for a fortnight and see what firefighting options the MMRDA offers after it conducts one more site inspection at station, which is adjacent to the 22-storey building.

  of Justice Naresh Patil and Justice   on Friday said residents of   must wait for a fortnight to see what MMRDA proposes to do. “See how they plan to do fire-fighting. Let us see what alternative they have. Once the monorail starts, you can’t stop it,” said Justice Patil.
 
 Bhavya Heights had moved the court stating that the “Dadar East” station has turned the building into a firetrap as its staircase is barely 2m from the entrance and eats into the mandatory open space. It also said that there is no space to bring in a fire engine. The society’s petition states that the fire brigade nod for the building came in 2005 and the residents got possession of their flats in 2012. MMRDA began work on the monorail in 2013. The residents moved the HC in 2015, urging to shift the staircase.
 
 On the court’s direction, the MMRDA conducted a joint site inspection on February 9, which with the fire-brigade, BMC and the  . Its advocate submitted minutes of that meeting. Perusing it, the judges noted that the MMRDA had said shifting of the staircase is not possible. The society’s advocate, Prachi Tatake, said, “The no-objection certificate of the fire brigade was not obtained for the construction of the station. A fire engine cannot access the building.”
 
 The judges then questioned MMRDA. “How without fire safety NOC did you make (sic) the station?” asked Justice Patil. MMRDA’s advocate replied, “A blanket NOC was given (for the construction of the monorail). It is a public project. We are doing our best to ensure safety of everyone in the area.”
 
 The advocate then informed that MMRDA has proposed one more site inspection on March 12. The judges will take an update at the next hearing on March 23.
 
