CHANDIGARH: A former driver of rape convicted   head   Ram Rahim,  , on Saturday recorded statement against the sect chief in the 2002 murder case of Hisar-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatarpati.

 
 Khatta’s statement was recorded in front of special CBI judge   for over two hours. He entered the court premises at 10 am and his evidence went on till 12.30pm. He will be cross-examined by Gurmeet’s defence counsel on Tuesday.
 
 Khatta recorded his statement after a legal battle. A CBI witness earlier, he had turned hostile during the trial. After conviction of Gurmeet in two rape cases on August 25, 2017, Khatta again approached the special CBI court to re-record his statement.
 
 However, the court rejected his application saying that the trial was at advance stage.
 
 Khatta then approached the Punjab and Haryana high court, saying that he had turned hostile as he was scared. With Gurmeet behind bars, he felt safe again to give evidence, he had argued. The HC accepted his plea and directed trial court to allow Khatta to depose.
 
 On Friday, the   had dismissed the dera chief ’s plea against allowing Khatta to depose in the murder case. Following this, he recorded evidence on Saturday.
 
 Talking to mediapersons present in the Panchkula court complex Khatta claimed he had heard Gurmeet issue direction for Chhatarpati’s murder. “Uss wele main naal si. Baabe ne keha si ke isto pehle dobara khabar lage, iss da muh band kar do (I was with him (dera head) at that time. Shut him up before he prints such news again, Baba had said,” Khatta told media.
 
 Khatta Singh was driver of the Sirsa-sect head at the time of the murder. Chhatrapati ran a vernacular paper and had published the anonymous letter accusing Dera head of raping female disciples. On the night of 24 October, 2002, two men riding a motorcycle shot Chhatrapati at point-blank range outside his house. The journalist succumbed to his injuries on November 2002.
 
 The sect chief is facing another murder case involving former dera manager Ranjit Singh. Ranjit, who was believed to be privy to a number of wrongdoing inside the sect headquarters, was shot dead in July 2003.
 
