CHANDIGARH: While authorities are yet to find a solution to waste management and smog, young brains from St John’s have not only come up with an idea, but have also won the first prize at the International Youth Summit in Singapore. The ideas include construction material from waste including plastic- plastricks (bricks from plastic) and bricks made of stubble.

 A team of students and teachers represented India for the very first time at the Global Youth Summit organised by Hemispheres Foundation, Singapore. Participants from Vietnam, Cambodia, Singapore, Myanmar, Indonesia, Philippines and others were also part of the summit.
 
 The theme of the summit was, ‘Young Environmentalists Making Change’. The junior category team of St.  's comprising Yajan Goel, Chaitanya, Bhavin, Zoravar and   of classes VII to IX, presented the project, ‘PLASTRICS’ - bricks made of soft plastic like toffee and chips wrappers and others. They won the first prize in this category.
 
 The senior category team that included Livkirat, Akshit, Jaskaran and Rehmat of classes IX to XI presented the project, ‘No stubble, No trouble’, bricks made of stubble which would work against Smog and won the third prize.
 
 The competition was between 17 teams of different countries and the Indian team of St. John's emerged as the ultimate winners. They qualified for the final 5-minute judges round after getting more than 90% of the audience votes for their projects in the first 1-minute round. 
 
 During the summit, the teams got the opportunity to interact with students, teachers and mentors from different countries. “As a part of the Live Green Outreach Programme we surveyed the locals and visitors at the Tampines Hub, Singapore to acquire the knowledge about waste management and even made them sign a pledge to reduce waste,” said Livkirat.
 
 The teams at the global summit were also part of an environment protection outreach programme at Kuo Chuan Presbyterian Primary School, Singapore. The extended learning programme included the study of flora and fauna with their visit to the Gardens by the Bay, river safari and the Great Panda Forest.
 
 
