NAGPUR: To achieve something big, one needs to prioritize the things.  's parents-Dr Prabhod and Trupti Bansod-and coach   did exactly that.

 Many raised their eyebrows, when the city shuttler turned down Mumbai team's lucrative offer to be the junior player in the   (PBL). After all, it wasn't just about money. She had an opportunity to rub the shoulders with and against the best in the world.
 
 Last week too, Malvika's parents were in a dilemma whether to accept invitation from the sports ministry to become the torch bearer of   School Games. She was chosen was to hand over the torch to Prime Minister   during the inauguration. However, they politely refused. Malvika would have lost crucial six days of practice had she gone to Delhi for the inauguration as it involved three days' rehearsal.
 
 On Thursday, Malvika justified decision of her parents and coach Kiran Makode emerging the champion in the U-17 girls singles. In-form Malvika reduced the potentially tough fight into almost no contest with a commanding 21-12, 21-10 victory over   in just 31 minutes. Such was her dominance that the southpaw did not even lose a game in five matches on her way to the triumph. Malvika is happy that giving priority to practice proved fruitful in the end.
 
 "Who doesn't want to be the torch bearer of an important sports event. My pictures would have been there on the front page of every newspaper that day. But we avoided the temptations and rather opted for gruelling training sessions. I am glad it worked out well," a jubilant Malvika told TOI from Delhi.
 
 Second seed Aakarshi, in fact, was favourite with her track record against Malvika, besides tremendous stamina and strength. The Chhattisgarh girl had beaten Malvika in three games in the final of the National Junior Championship at Guwahati in last December. However, Malvika was determined to turn the tables. She avenged the defeat on a bigger platform.
 
 The fight between Malvika and Aakarshi is not new to the national junior circuit. Before Guwahati, Malvika had surprised Aakarshi last year during her maiden All India Junior Ranking tournament title in the U-19 girls singles in Chennai. In Trivandrum, Aakarshi got the better of Malvika last year. On Thursday, Malvika completely dominated her opponent. She established an early lead in both the games and maintained it till the finish.
 
 "Obviously, I am thrilled to emerge champion. The match was live on Star Sports and it really pumped me up. I attacked from the word go. It helped me creating openings. Whenever there was an opening, I would finish the points," said Malvika, a Standard XI student of Shivaji Science College.
 
 She was positive and displayed great composure to floor Aakarshi. The sixteen-year-old gave credit to her coach Makode and supportive parents for her extraordinary success in the last six months.
 
 
 
 
 First round: Beat V Sarumasthi 21-10, 21-7 in 20 minutes
 
 Second round: Beat   21-8, 21-11 in 22 minutes
 
 Quarterfinal: Beat 8-Mansi Singh 21-14, 22-20 in 35 minutes
 
 Semifinal: Beat 4-Unnati Bisht 21-19, 21-14 in 43 minutes
 
 Final: Beat 2-Aakarshi Kashyap 21-12, 21-10 in 31 minutes.
 
 Malvika Bansod justified her parents and coach's decision
 
