BHOPAL:   on Wednesday sent the recommendation for   inquiry into death of journalist  , who was mowed down by speeding truck in Bhind on Monday morning. After the CM’s announcement earlier, the police sent the proposal to home department which forwarded it to CBI headquarters in New Delhi on Wednesday.

 However, whether CBI would agree to hold the inquiry is still not clear, as less than a fortnight ago the investigating agency had turned down the state government’s recommendation to probe suicide of assistant sub-inspector Satish Raghuvanshi, who had hanged himself in Ashok Nagar on December 23.
 
 The case of Satish Raghuvanshi was sent to CBI on December 30 after pressure from the opposition Congress. Raghuvanshi community has sizeable population in Ashok Nagar district, of which Mungaoli is a part, and the government couldn’t ignore their demand for a CBI probe, as by-polls were scheduled there which the ruling BJP eventually lost.
 
 On March 16, CBI wrote to the state government that the case did not conform to the criteria for a central probe. Officials said whether CBI would conduct the inquiry in the death of journalist Sandeep Sharma will become clear in about a month. They have just complied with the announcement made by the CM.
 
 The 35-year-old journalist was working with a regional channel and investigating illegal sand mining cases involving sand mafia and police in the district. Sandeep was killed in broad daylight when he was returning home on his two-wheeler.
 
 “This is a very sad incident and CM expressed grief over the death of the journalist. He had formed a SIT to investigate the incident. Now, to find the truth the chief minister announced a CBI inquiry into the case during the review meeting of law and order in the state. The matter will be handed over to the top investigating agency,” cabinet minister and government spokesperson Narottam Mishra had told journalists during the weekly cabinet briefing on Tuesday.
 
 On queries about the decision for a CBI probe, Mishra said that there were demands from various quarters for a fair investigation into the matter, hence chief minister had decided to recommend CBI inquiry into the case.
 
 Sandeep's relatives had demanded a judicial or CBI inquiry into the incident as they suspected hand of sand mafia and police in the death. Sandeep had exposed connections between the sand mafia and police through a video sting which was released some time ago. After receiving repeated threats from the mafia, Sandeep had also filed a complaint with Bhind SP, citing immediate threat to his life from a police officer. He had also sought police protection and written letters to the chief minister, governor and even the Prime Minister for help, said relatives.
 
 
 Patkar seeks judicial probe
 Bhopal: Narmada Bachao Andolan leader Medha Patkar demanded a judicial inquiry into the circumstances leading to the death of a journalist in Bhind on Monday.
 
 Addressing press conference on Thursday, Patkar said that journalist Sandeep Sharma was raising the issue of sand mafia and was also getting threats after the sting operation against a police personnel.
 
 She said that the journalist had even asked for security cover from the district police, which was denied. Patkar said that illegal mining is not only damaging Chambal river, the mafia men are active even along the stretch of Narmada. She said that the people involved in illegal mining are violating all rules and regulations of NGT and Supreme Court and the police and officials of district administration have become a mute witness. She said that any one who is raising voice against illegal sand mining is facing attack. 
 
