Bikaner: Close to Rs 2 crore was spent for digitizing 100 lakh documents in about 3,650 days at Rajasthan State Archives,   (RSAB). Claimed to have world’s biggest digitized repository of archival documents of 22 erstwhile Rajputana states, Mughal and British period, the RSAB is running full throttle with digitizing 10,000 pages per day.

 The achievement doesn’t end here. The RSAB has uploaded over 80 lakh such documents providing a great relief to scholars and commoners or lawyers. These online documents can be accessed for free by anyone by simply registering on the RSAB website.
 
 The online records include Mughal Farmans—Emperor Aurangzeb’s son Mohammed Akbar’s farman to Raja Ram Singh cautioning the latter to beware of his father who is anti-Hindu to copper plates dating back from the Rajput rulers Maharana Pratap to printed documents of the erstwhile king Ummed Singh of Jodhpur.
 
 The archival documents dating from 1622 CE to 1953 CE are over 50 crore stacked in 7 record rooms placed above one feet from the ground and are up to 35 metres in height. The weight of documents varies from 35 kg to as light as 100 gram and size of 30 metres to 2cm by 2cm.
 
 As per the government order, all government documents older than 25 years are required to be stored in the RSAB. The process of digitization started in 2006 and was initiated by Mahendra Singh Khagdawat, the director of RSAB. Initially, the digitization work was carried out by the NIC in 2005-06, later it was done by Rajcomp, state government agency from 2007-08 and till 2012-13. Since then RSAB is carrying out the process itself. The achievement becomes significant when RSAB has no technical staff.
 
 Khadgawat says that the archival cell is answer to several modern day problems the state is facing. Lakhs of documents are related to medical topography, population census, health, education, criminal laws, civic rules etc. “The rationing of water and its conservation techniques adopted by the princely states can solve the problem of water scarcity. The civic rules like ban on defecation in public, smoking in public or rules of engagement of civilians during the visit of viceroy are lessons for everyone even today,” said Khadgawat.
 
 The modern technological intervention has expedited the digitization system. The scanning machine and micro rolls machine does scanning part and preserves it on the micro rolls for the next 500 years. Bikaner is hot and humid and faces sandstorms for eight months making the documents vulnerable. A fumigation machine to extract the additional moisture to diminish the insects or micro-organisms ensures that longevity of the documents is maintained. Documents which are brittle undergo a 6-hour ‘makeover’ as the workers of RSAB say.
 
 Ironically, the number of visiting research scholars at RSAB from universities like Delhi, Jamia Milia Islamia and Aligarh Muslim University is much higher than any university in the state, except Bikaner University. The archives had attracted several foreigners of British origin to trace the history of their forefathers who served in the British Empire.
 
 Utmost care is taken to maintain cleanliness in the complex. Five-layered cleanliness system is in place to ensure that no damage is caused due to dust. Other than the usual sweepers, the RSAB has mobile cleaners whose job is to clean the campus—inside and outside throughout the working period. Other than the five-layer system, every quarter special cleaners from Delhi are called who re-clean every nook and corner.
 
 
