KOLKATA: The epicentre of violence shifted from south to north   during Wednesday’s re-polling in 573 booths, leaving behind scary images of goons armed with muskets carrying away a ballot box in Malda’s Ratua. The ballot box was recovered by cops a little later, after which polling resumed in the booth. Worse still was the recovery of the mutilated body of a 42-year-old presiding officer on the railway tracks at Sonadangi in   late on Tuesday night. TOI had reported the recovery of the body in its Wednesday’s edition.

 Presiding officer Rajkumar Roy, a school teacher, had gone missing from the   Sonapur Primary School polling booth during the May 14 polls. His mysterious death sparked impromptu protests in Itahar on Wednesday, with hundreds of irate poll officials blocking National Highway 34 alleging murder and demanding security. When   reached the spot to diffuse tension, he was greeted with hurled shoes and heckled. 
 
 Roy’s angry colleagues alleged that the local administration hadn’t even bothered to lodge a police complaint after the officer went missing while on duty and was trying to pass off the death as a case of suicide. While SP Shyam Sing refused to comment on the cause of the death, Nabanna sources blamed a Left backed teachers’ union, for fomenting trouble after the recovery of the body. 
 
 Sensing the discontent, the state government handed over the probe to the CID, which later claimed to have got an undertaking from the driver of   that an unidentified person had been knocked down at the spot by his train, but the polling officials were firm on not joining counting duty on Thursday.
 
 The two incidents prompted the SEC to tighten security at the 291 counting centres for Thursday. 
 
 
 
 
 The poll panel has directed district magistrates and superintendents of police not to allow victory rallies till the entire counting process was over.
 
 The round of violence that began on Monday claimed yet another life on Wednesday, taking the body count up to 27. Md Kasiuddin, a supporter of an independent candidate from Humdam village in North Dinajpur’s Goalpokhar, was killed in an armed clash between independents and Forward Bloc supporters, but the district police refused to count it as a poll-related clash, claiming it to be the fallout of a land dispute. Two Trinamool supporters were hit by splinters when some miscreants threw bombs at a polling booth in Farakka. 
 
 Re-polling in  , in comparison, was more peaceful with cops preventing jamming of booths, raiding tea shops and eateries to drive away outsiders and chasing away motorbike gangs. 
 
 The opposition parties —   and PDS — are likely to file petitions documenting the incidents of violence and deaths at the Calcutta High Court on Thursday. A forum of intellectuals has also filed a PIL on the same ground that is likely to be heard on Thursday. Congress, on the other hand, will file a contempt petition against the state election commission and the state government on the ground that they have failed in their duty.
 
 
