NEW DELHI: A day after he inspected the site of the much delayed  , deputy chief minister Manish   registered his annoyance in a strongly worded report that charged the bureaucratic brass led by chief secretary Anshu Prakash with not cooperating with the government on the project.

 In the report that the government will submit to   during a hearing on July 13, Sisodia recorded that senior IAS officers in charge of the departments involved in the project “chose not to attend the site inspection” with him on  . The minister directed Prakash to seek written explanations from these officers on their absence.
 
  
  
 
 The report, copies of which were sent to the chief secretary and heads of the departments concerned, stated that on April 26, the high court had directed the chief secretary to convene a meeting to sort out matters and complete the construction of the bridge without further cost escalation.
 
 When contacted, Prakash said that he had already held the meeting that Sisodia had cited and directions had been given to prepare a note for the   ( ).   secretary Manoj Parida too said, “The high court’s directions were to the minister and PWD engineer-in-chief to carry out inspections. The latter was present during the inspection on Tuesday and I sent my special secretary because I was in a meeting. I also have five departments to handle.”
 
 The minister's report said, “Even before the order of the high court, I have been stressing on the importance of completion of this project which has already suffered substantial cost and time overrun. I have sent written instructions to the chief secretary on November 20, 2017, February 23 and May 17, 2018. Unfortunately, I am yet to get any response from the CS.”
 
 After the inspection, the minister wrote in his report, “Notice was given to Manoj K Parida, principal secretary (PWD), Dilraj Kaur, secretary (Tourism), and Shurbir Singh, managing director,  , about the inspection scheduled on the directions of the high court. Unfortunately, the senior IAS officers …chose not to attend the site inspection for reasons better known to them.” He added that the officers should have had the courtesy of contacting his office to reschedule the visit if they were preoccupied.
 
 The report declared that the finance department released Rs 36 crore to DTTDC for the project in the last week of March, but Sisodia was informed during the inspection that the agency had, in turn, disbursed only Rs 10 crore, that too as late as May 16. The construction of the cable-stayed bridge had come to a virtual halt in February after the joint-venture firm wasn’t able to make payments to its vendors, specialised agencies and project staff.
 
 Sisodia has ordered the DTTDC managing director to immediately release the remaining funds. The principal secretaries of PWD and finance department have also been instructed to present the revised estimate to EFC within a week. The chief secretary too has been asked to ensure that the revised project estimate is placed before the cabinet for a decision within three days of EFC’s approval.
 
 
