HYDERABAD: Construction of a swanky   police station building and a new ACP office for Balanagar division is set to be taken up in six months. But, what clinched the issue for the police brass is Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd’s ( ) decision to lease out 1,700 square yards of its land where the two new offices will come up.

 Highly-placed sources told TOI that HAL had decided to hand over the land on a 30-year rent-free lease to the police department. The land is located right behind the present  . “It’s a win-win situation for the police department as it is getting the land for free and also need not worry about paying rental lease for the next 30 years,” an official said.
 
 
 Sources said HAL’s largesse has more to do with 200 acres it got from then state government five decades ago. HAL utilised the land for setting up its avionics division where it developed more than 40 types of avionics systems for LCA, ALH, IJT, Su-30 MKI, HTT-40, Jaguar Darin II & III and  .
 
 “In a reciprocatory gesture, HAL has agreed to part with a piece of land for constructing the new PS and ACP division office,” he said.
 
 A proposal to seek HAL land for the new PS and ACP division office was mooted seven months ago. During a survey, senior   officials had identified some properties on Balanagar-Bowenpally stretch which, they said, would be affected once the six-lane flyover between Narsapur crossroads (Balanagar junction) and   towards Bowenpally came up.
 
 Approximately 400 properties, including commercial, and government offices, including, Balanagar PS, and   offices, will take a hit for the mega flyover project taken up under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). “It was then the authorities had sounded out HAL for the said land to construct the new PS and ACP division office. With HAL agreeing to lease the land freely, top police brass heaved a sigh of relief,” sources added.
 
 With the land having been identified, estimates and designs for the new PS and ACP office will be worked out in the coming week.
 
 “Once the design and estimation is over, tenders will be called for the contractor to take up workds. If everything goes as per plan, works on the PS and ACP office should begin in next six months,” the sources said. The Balanagar division falls under Cyberabad police commissionerate’s jurisdiction.
 
