
  
 ‘IPL is the perfect entertainer, hope Jaipur gets to host it this time’
 AFTER MORE THAN FOUR YEARS OF NO MATCHES
 
 For more than four years, cricket buffs in Jaipur had to contend themselves with watching   matches (in fact, all international cricket matches) on TV screens at home or giant screens at cafes and restaurants. While the   (RCA) was suspended by the Indian cricket board in May 2014, following ex-IPL Commissioner Lalit Modi’s re-election as its president, the   team was suspended after illegal betting and match-fixing charges were brought against them. But things might change this season – Rajasthan Royals is going to make a comeback after two years. And,   Acting Secretary Amitabh Chaudhary, in his opening remarks before the start of IPL auctions, had said, “There were two impediments over RCA and the ground in Jaipur. Now, RCA is back into the fold. A recce has been done at the SMS and the court has ordered termination of lease and it will now be extended till the end of the IPL. So things looks settled for Jaipur.”
 
 Taposh Chaterrjee, chief curator, SMS Stadium, says, “IPL is one of the most prestigious sporting events – it’s a perfect package of entertainment and  . It helps generate revenue, which in turn contributes towards the development of state, promote local tourism, boost transport, and create seasonal employment for locals.”
 
 ‘We are hopeful that we will be able to host IPL this year’
 
 Taposh Chaterrjee adds, “And when it comes to cricketers from the state, it will promote budding talent, bringing name and fame for them which cannot be calculated in terms of monetary gains.”
 
 
  
 ‘WE ARE HOPEFUL THAT WE WILL BE ABLE TO HOST IPL THIS SEASON’
 
 RS Nandu, honorary secretary of the RCA, shares with us, “A BCCI team is reviewing the arrangements for the upcoming edition of the IPL. We have one month to prepare and we are hopeful that we will be able to get our infrastructure ready to host one of the biggest cricketing events of the world. In fact, the entire city is desperately waiting for some action on the grounds. Almost after four years, the city is all set to host the matches. It will not only boost sports and sportsmen in the city, but also help the tourism industry.
 
 Tejraj Singh, PRO, Rajasthan Sports Council, says, “Our stadium can accommodate almost 27,000 to 28,000 people at a time. And IPL matches in Jaipur have always seen packed audiences. Since Jaipur is easily accessible from metro cities as well as all the cities of Rajasthan, people from nook and corner of Rajasthan and nearby states look forward to the biggest sporting event. Everyone cannot go to Delhi or Mumbai for that matter but travelling to Jaipur is quite easy for them.”
 
 ‘IPL BOOSTS TOURISM, HOPE JAIPUR STARTS HOSTING MATCHES AGAIN’
 
 Khalid Khan, president of Rajasthan Association of Tour Operators, says that he is hopeful that IPL matches will be held again in Jaipur. “We used to witness huge influx of tourists, both domestic and international, when IPL used to be held in Jaipur. International players travelling with their families, used to extend their stay and also take the opportunity to visit local places and know the state and its culture in a better way. All these would boost tourism,” he says.”
 
 ‘IPL IS ALWAYS A STAR-STUDDED AFFAIR, LOOKING FORWARD TO THIS SEASON’
 
 The one-and-half-month-long cricketing extravaganza will attract many big honchos, corporates and Bollywood celebs who fly down to Jaipur to watch the matches. Akshay Pareek, a young photographer from Jaipur, says, “IPL has been a big source of entertainment, not just for traditional cricket buffs, but for all. It’s not about cricket but more than that. One gets to see big celebrities, both from Bollywood as well as Hollywood. For me, the VIP arena with actors cheering for their favourite team has always been a major charm. I remember Hollywood actress Elizabeth Hurley cheering for Shane Warne, who was a part of RR then. So if IPL happens in the city, I would be very happy and would love to attend all the matches to see players as well as celebs.”
 
 WE WILL MAKE UP FOR WHAT JAIPUR HAS MISSED IN FOUR YEARS’
 
 Rajeev Khanna, vice president, Rajasthan Royals, says, “We are very keen to have our matches on our home turf. We won the first edition of IPL and again wish to repeat the history of winning the IPL trophy. As things are shaping up in a positive way, we are expecting to host matches here. We assure cricket fans and players, whatever Jaipur has missed in four years, we will make up for all of it by providing a perfect combination of entertainment and cricket.” 
 
 
