These are are exciting times for television and the medium is so promising that artistes who have until now been part of films are now making the transition to the small screen. And uncannily, that’s exactly the case with the lead pair of the soon-to-be-launched serial  .   Nayak and  , who will be making their television debut with this daily soap have both dabbled in films before. But the duo tell   that they’re more excited about their small screen debut than they were with their respective films. Excerpts from a chat...

 
 
 For Arav, acting has been a childhood passion. “I’ve attended dance classes, trained in acting... you name it and I’ve done it all in the hope of making a good name in tinseltown,” he tells us. Unfortunately though, both the films that   was part of sunk without a trace. “I was disheartened of course, because you enter the industry all bushy-tailed and with stars in your eyes about garnering name and fame. So when your hopes are crushed, it takes a while for it to sink in. Luckily, I got a chance to resurrect my career with Avale Veena Paani which I now think is really god sent,” shares Arav. But when most people look forward to moving to the big screen from the small, he’s chosen to do quite the contrary. Isn’t he apprehensive about the move? “Not at all. I’ve noticed the kind of recognition that television stars get today; it’s unbelievable. Frankly, the identity it gives you is on par with films. So I don’t regret this move one bit. In fact, the reach it provides is the main reason behind me making this switch,” states a frank Arav. He adds that his role in Avale Veena Paani has been equally appealing. “I play a boy who is an atheist and has scant regard for family or relationships. He also has a stammering problem and to play all of this was the challenge I was keen to take up,” says the newbie. Having started shooting for it already, Arav believes that he’s in television for the long haul and once he’s truly made a name for himself, he will return to the silver screen. 
 
 
 
 For Varshika, acting in plays were part of her student years. But back home, there was someone who fervently hoped that she’d take up acting as a profession. “My mother wanted me to be an actor, and I am here, living her dream. So soon after I completed studies, I got a photo shoot done and these pictures fetched me my debut film in   and later on another in Tamil,” says Varshika. And while both films fetched a lukewarm response, the newbie got to know of opportunities in television through a friend who also acts in the hit serial  . “I auditioned and was soon told that I had made the cut for Avale Veena Paani,” says the actor. The role is that of a god-fearing girl who adores her parents and can go to any lengths for family. “I was intrigued by my character Bhakti and kept wondering if there are indeed girls like her in real life. That aspect alone was enough to clinch it for me,” she says. The newbie is now enjoying her latest turnout as a small screen actor. “As for wanting to do movies, I don’t know. I have always gone with the flow, so if it comes calling once I make a name here, I will definitely consider it,” wraps up Varshika. 
 
