BENGALURU: With less than 20 days to go for D-Day, all eyes are on promises which political parties make to woo voters into their fold.

 
 And as is the convention, parties have formed committees to delve into the needs of the people and make customary promises of what will be provided if they come to power. But making a departure from the leadershipdriven manifestos, the   has decided to experiment with a crowd sourcing effort in preparing its manifesto. It also decided that constituency-wise manifestos will give it a “local flavour”.
 
 So this election, as many as 227 manifestos will be prepared, with 225 from the BJP alone. While 224 individual manifestos, one for each constituency, will be drawn up, another larger and broad-based manifesto at the state level will be released by the BJP.
 
 For B C Gopal, 44, it was a chance to express his ideas to the BJP and have them incorporated into the manifesto for   constituency. A self-proclaimed “Modi bhakt”,   said: “I was invited for a discussion by the BJP at the party head office in Raichur, where I proposed that added impetus be given to more solar-based vehicles in the state.”
 
 An employee of Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS), Gopal said the demand for energy is increasing every day, and he wanted the BJP to incorporate it in its manifesto to publicize alternative energy vehicles.
 
 On whether he hoped the BJP would utilize his idea, he said: “It is a hope that the PM will carry forward this idea across the country.”
 
 While the unassuming citizen may have given his idea and moved ahead with his daily chores, the BJP appears to have picked up the idea and made it a part of its Raichur manifesto. The BJP claims that it has incorporated ideas given by 80, 000 people in person, and picked “feasible” ideas of the 1.1 lakh responses they received from social media platforms.
 
 “Each of these ideas has been vetted and sent to the central leadership for consent. The BJP manifesto has been prepared by working professionals,” said   K, state convener for the BJP IT cell. It is said that as many as 65 professionals have worked on preparing the manifesto on a full-time basis.
 
