KOZHIKODE: Repeated recovery of dummy Improvised Explosive Devices (IEDs) from sensitive places in   and adjoining areas have become a headache for the police. 

 Six dummy IEDs similar in make, sans explosive material, have been recovered from the area in the last six years. While one such device was recovered from an unoccupied spot in Nadapuram in December, 2012, another one was found on the road at   in February, 2016. An IED circuit was also recovered from   in July, 2016.
 
 
  
 
 In January, 2018 PVC pipes and material for making bombs were found at Thuneri. Sources said the police didn't register cases in all these instances as the explosive material was absent in the IEDs. But electric circuits and batteries, which were required for making high quality explosives, were present.
 
 An IED with a capacitor, circuit, a small transformer and a switch besides a small amount of gun powder wrapped in a newspaper near the offering box of a temple at   near Nadapuram early this month. 
 
 As the investigation was progressing, another device with a PVC pipe, circuit, inverter and switch besides small quantity of gun powder was recovered from the premises of the RSS office in Nadapuram. The material was covered with thick red insulation tape.
 
 There is striking similarity in the making of these devices, pointing to the possibility of same person or persons behind the mischief. But what baffles the police is the failure to identify the intention behind placing the dummy bombs. It may be recalled that Nadapuram is a communally-sensitive area that witnessed many violent incidents.
 
 Bomb-making is not new to the area where five persons were killed while transporting explosives in 2010. But the kind of IEDs recovered from the areas are not like country bombs used in political clashes.
 
 District police chief M K Pushkaran said that a special team had been formed to probe into the incident. "The devices were recovered from different locations and it is yet to be ascertained whether the same group is behind all the incidents," he said.
 
 Muhammad Banglath, a local IUML leader, said that the IEDs recovered recently seems to be new ones. "I am told that they are of different variety and require special expertise to manufacture them. The intention behind placing them at sensitive places is highly suspicious," he said.
 
 Materials for making IED including PVC pipes and electric circuits with a diagram explaining how to make a pipe bomb was recovered from   area in 2008. Investigation into that incident also did not reach anywhere.
 
 
