VIJAYAWADA: Denizens are suffering to no end as temperatures in the city are on the rise.

  Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA) is closely monitoring the changing weather in the state. After analysing the   data of last five summers, APSDMA issued warnings stating 32 mandals out of 50 in Krishna district were reeling with severe heatwave conditions.
 
 Heatwave also called a ‘silent disaster’, claims hundreds of lives across the state every year. Out of 670 mandals in AP, 148 mandals are experiencing ‘severe heatwave’ conditions. The average temperatures in Amaravati ranges from 41°C to 45°C.   urban, Vijayawada rural, Penamaluru, Kankipadu, Mylavaram, Ibrahimpatnam, Bapulapadu mandals in the capital region fall under severe heatwave category as per the data of APSDMA.
 
 In the last eight years, AP has had heatwave conditions almost every year and the duration of this period has been increasing in every part of the state. Maximum temperature of Andhra Pradesh has been analysed for pre-monsoon season during 2010-2017.
 
 The heatwave claimed 2,776 lives in the state from 2014 and 2017. In 2015, heatwave claimed 1,369 live which was the highest in the last decade.
 
 “Higher daily peak temperatures and longer, more intense heatwaves are becoming increasingly frequent globally due to climate change. Andhra Pradesh to is affected by the impact of climate change in terms of increased instances of heat waves which are more intense in nature with each passing year,” said APSDMA.
 
 Mangalagiri, Thulluru, Tadepalli, Amaravati, Tadikonda mandals in Guntur district which are an integral party of Amaravati capital region fall under moderate heatwave category.
 
 Severe heat conditions prevailed in Andhra Pradesh in the second week of May to the first week of July and temperatures ranged between 43°C and 47°C and average minimum temperature during the night is 27°C.
 
  district has the least number of mandals experiencing heatwave conditions. Only 3 Srikakulam mandals out of 38 are in this category. Twenty two mandals are experiencing moderate heatwave conditions. Andhra Pradesh government has asked district headquarters and local bodies to take necessary measures to minimise the loss. Local bodies are directed to prepare summer action plans and take up huge awareness campaigns and necessary measures to help people beat the heat.
 
 The state government which started distributing free buttermilk, oral rehydration solution (ORS) and safe drinking water on busy junctions has decided to continue this in summer and asked APSDMA to give regular alerts to districts about the fluctuation in temperatures.
 
 Vijayawada Municipal Corporation which started implementing summer action plan has arranged stalls offering free safe drinking water and other beverages. Health wing of VMC is gearing upto to distribute free ORS packets in the city if temperatures increase further.
 
 
