COIMBATORE: People may call her loopy. Many laugh at her as well. But nothing bothers this 41-year-old homemaker turned environmentalist,  .

 Ritu Bagdi, resident of a gated community at  , believes that reducing carbon emission by placing plants on the roof of her car is a cool idea. While the plants dangle in the wind as she travels, she does get several stares, smiles and also some angry looks from car lovers. “But I do not care. I am sure this will make a difference,” she says.
 
 It took her a year to convince her family about the benefits of having a green patch on the car roof, she says. In the beginning, her family refused to use the car and her husband made a huge fuss about it. But, nothing could budge her. “Every new idea will be rejected and opposed. But, once people see the results, they will slowly change. My son took a ride in the car a few days ago and enjoyed it,” she says.
 
 So, why did she do this? “Last summer, when the temperature touched 40 degree and the car AC also was no help, I decided to do something about it. I researched and found that in Bengaluru, a kitchen garden has been set up on the roof of a bus. A taxi driver in Kolkata had set up a grass roof, also called green roof, on top of his car. After coming to know about these ventures, my family couldn’t argue with me any more. Now, the interior temperature has gone down considerably,” Ritu says.
 
 The passionate environmentalist in her also wants to compensate and find ways to avoid every kind of waste and pollutant generated at household-level. It’s not just the ordinary kitchen waste that she turns into compost. She has taken huge strides by using modern gadgets to find solution for local eco-challenges.
 
 “Once, I used a TDS meter, which indicates the total dissolved solids (TDS) in a solution, to check the waste water dumped into the drains from the RO plant in my locality. I found that the TDS was 2,500. I conducted a research and found a solution. I added activated carbon to the waste water. Within a few days, the TDS came down to 1,300. After adding some neem and tulsi leaves in the water, I was sure it could be used for watering the garden,” she says.
 
 Carrying her passion on her sleeve, she questions everyone, who dump garbage on the streets and also those who do not segregate it. Recently, she got a letter signed by 30 shop owners stating that they would stop using plastic bags and switch over to biodegradable alternatives.
 
 “I think we all just need to be human enough and take responsibility for the waste we produce,” she says. Except medical waste, which is sent to the No Dumping NGO, she doesn’t let any waste from her home go into the earth. She has even set up a small biogas plant following online instructions and has started cooking food using it. “I use waste water, cow dung and kitchen waste to produce biogas. All you need is two barrels, tubes and taps to set up the plant,” she says.
 
 Her next project? “I plan to set up sand filters in my home to treat sewage water,” Ritu says. “I want everyone to keep thinking about green solutions that are easy on the purse, but effective. I want to create a model. But, I am not part of any NGO. I just love nature,” she adds.
 
 
