How I wish there were foods that genuinely reduced belly fat. That, after a sip of this and a bite of that, your tummy slowly starts to ‘de-tum’ and go right back in – where it belongs. Alas, any diet or food that promises inches off your waist is just a waste of your time, money, effort and emotion. If you are prone to putting on weight on your stomach first, the best thing would be to work with targeted exercises that strengthen your core or workouts for your abs like crunches, planks, pilates and so on. But that is more in the realm of a fitness instructor. What I can help you with nutritionally is let you know how to decrease bloating i.e., temporary   that is brought on by certain foods and situations. Broadly, there are two kinds of bloating – one brought on by gas and the other is water retention.

 
 This kind of temporary belly fat is essentially brought on due to the accumulation of gas in the digestive tract, causing tons of discomfort. This is due to many reasons, like eating too much at one time, having inconsistent meal times, and eating a diet that is low in fibre – all of which wage war on your digestive system. But another surprising reason is not eating within the first hour of rising. Your last meal prior to rising could have been at least 8-10 hours before. Empty stomach can get very gassy, and the longer you wait to put food in it, the gassier it gets. 
 
 For this I have a simple nutritional solution. Take cinnamon, methi seeds and cumin seeds in equal measure. Roast the mixture, grind, and store in a jar. Take 1 tsp of this mixture with a glass of warm water daily in the morning for a wonderful, easy cure for gas bloating.
 
 
 
 This may sound ironic but water retention is a message sent by your body that you are not getting enough water! So it responds by hanging on to the water your body has left, leading to you bulking up, especially on your tummy. Avoid aerated drinks, caffeine as well as alcohol because they mostly dehydrate you. And drink a lot of water so that your body feels replenished. Like, tons more. About 2-3 litres a day at least.
 
 If you are prone to belly fat, a healthy diet and regular exercise will create a calorie deficit, that will help you   all over including on your waist... eventually. Even though your extra belly may be the last bit to go, it can be reduced or be eliminated completely if you follow simple instructions to a good and healthy life.
 
 
 
