Tuticorin: Scores of match box unit workers backed by All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) on Tuesday picketed offices of the revenue division officer and inspector of factories of Kovilpatti, demanding a revision in their wages.  The protesters said that they would wait for wage hike till Friday and will stage a ‘waiting’ stir at the RDO’s office from Monday. However, reports suggested the match box unit owners are planning a 20 per cent hike in wages from Monday. Protesters said that over 90 per cent match box unit workers in the state are from Kovilpatti region, spread over Kovilpatti, Vilathikulam, Ettayapuram, Kalugumalai, Kayathar, Kadambur, Pasuvanthanai, Eppothum Vendran and Ilayarasanendal in Tuticorin district. There are a sizeable number of units in Sankarankovil, Kuruvikulam and Thiruvengadam in Tirunelveli district and Sattur and Sivakasi in Virudhunagar district. Their wages were last set seven years ago in a tripartite meeting comprising government officials, representatives of workers and the owners associations. Since then they have been drawing Rs 5 per villai (160 boxes). “Five lakh labourers directly and indirectly were employed in the industry. More than 90 per cent of them are women, making Rs 75 to Rs 125 a day,” said CPI district secretary S Alagumuthu Pandian who led the protest. He said that Tamil Nadu Government’s order (2D) No. 20, Labour and Employment (J1), dated 21-3-2013 has put dearness allowance (DA) for match box workers at Rs 125.6 per day with effect from April 1, 2017, to March 31, 2018. “But no employee has een given this DA. The companies should start giving this DA along with the salary from now on,” he said, adding that the Inspector of Factories should enforce it. If not the wage should be increased by Rs 3 or Rs 2 per villai, he said. Secretary of the National Small Match Manufacturers Association, Kovilpatti (comprising Tuticorin, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli districts), VS Sethurathinam said that the demand of labourers is genuine and that manufacturers too are interested in giving a hike. “We were badly hit by Goods and Services Tax (GST) which was fixed at 18 per cent for semi and fully mechanized match box making,” he said.