GHAZIABAD: The family of a 14-year-old schoolgirl whose neighbours had allegedly tried to molest and abduct her on December 21 has accused police of inaction and said the student has stopped going for classes ever since the assault attempt on her.

 The girl’s mother said the accused,   and  , had been threatening her with dire consequences and every time she went to the local police station in Khoda, she was being told to come later. The youngest of four siblings, the girl hasn’t stepped out of home since the alleged assault bid, her mother said.
 
 The police refuted the allegation of inaction, saying they had already arrested one of the accused and would soon nab the other.
 
 The class VII student, whose father runs an eatery, was on her way home from school along with a few of her classmates when Junaid and Mehboob came in an auto-rickshaw and allegedly offered to drop them. 
 
 The girls would often walk home or take a bus from their school in  .
 
 “There was a third person along with the two youths who was driving the auto. They told the girls they would drop them home. After dropping off the other girls, Junaid and Mehboob got into the rear seat and tried to grope my daughter. They threatened her with dire consequences if she raised an alarm. They would have probably taken her to some isolated place but could not as the police stopped them during a checking drive,” the girl’s mother said.
 
 After the two accused and the auto driver failed to give satisfactory answers about the girl, they were detained and the mother was called to   police chowki at Indirapuram.
 
 The girl narrated the alleged assault attempt after reaching home.
 
 “I shudder to think what could have happened to my daughter had the police not stopped them. The police made us sign a compromise letter that day. After returning home, I confronted Junaid and Mehboob, but instead of apologising, they issued us threats,” the girl’s mother said.
 
 Two days later, an FIR was lodged at Khoda police station against Junaid, Mehboob and the auto driver under sections 363 (kidnapping), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and sections 7 and 8 ((sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act). 
 
 Told about the allegation of inaction, SHO (Khoda) Dhruv Bhushan Pandey said: “Mehboob has already been arrested. “The auto driver has also been identified as  . Efforts are being made to arrest the other two. We will also book them under the Goondas Act. All possible assistance is being provided to the family.” 
 
 
