GURUGRAM: Huda has issued notices to the junior engineer (JE) and sub divisional officer (SDO) for irregularities in allotment of alternative plots to oustees of   village whose houses were coming in the way of the widening of   and threatened to take disciplinary action if the officials failed to give satisfactory replies.

 Huda had in August 2017 allotted alternative plots in Sector 37C-35 to the oustees but due to variation in plot size in the layout plan, the physical possession of the land could not be given. 
 
 The six marla plots were shown as four marla in the layout plan due to which oustees were alloted a plot bigger than they can be given. 
 
 The mistake came to light in September 2017 and Huda had to stop giving physical possession of plots. It took about six month to make corrections in the layout plan and reschedule the allotment. Huda on February 21 conducted a draw of lots to allot fresh plots to oustees but four people are yet to be allotted alternative plots.
 
 TOI highlighted the issue in its February 20 edition. The irregularities have delayed the widening of the drain which is likely to miss the monsoon deadline.
 
 Estate officer-I of Huda Sanjeev Singhla said officers concerned were issued notices for the mistake in the identification and measurement of plots due to which the drain widening was delayed. “We have made alternative allotment to the oustees, except for four of them who will also get plots soon,” said Singhla.
 
 After the ‘Gurujam’ in July 2016 due to waterlogging at Hero  , the state government had announced the widening of the   drain passing through Khandsa village to increase its carrying capacity. 
 
 The 39.96km long and 30m wide Badshapur drain, which starts from Ghata and empties into Najafgarh drain, narrows down to 10m at Khandsa, reducing its carrying capacity from 1,200cusecs to just 500cusecs. In certain areas in Khandsa, the channel becomes as narrow as 4-5metres, preventing water, which flows into the drain from all parts of the city to pass through at the expected pace and causing waterlogging. Singhla added that with the construction of a flyover at Hero Honda Chowk, they would finally be able to manage the traffic flow even during heavy rain. 
 
 
