CHANDIGARH: Facing criticism for doubling the   charges since April 1, the issue of revision of charges is set to come for detailed discussion in both finance and contract committee (F&CC) and general   meeting on March 20 and 23. City mayor Davesh   has also alleged that the firm, which has been given the tender to run the paid parking lots has also not cleared their dues with the Chandigarh municipal corporation ( ), which is now mulling over taking a legal action on the issue.

 “Since the new rates were approved by the general house of MC in its meeting held on February 28, 2018, I will be taking up this issue in the coming F&CC and in the general house meetings, so that a comprehensive and well considered decision is taken keeping in view the larger interest of the residents of Chandigarh as well as that of the MC,” Moudgil said. 
 
 “I am also examining as to how and under what circumstances, it was permitted in advance to double the parking rates within one year of the allotment of work.”
 
 “It was resolved that the implementation of enhanced parking rates will be allowed only after the report of the technical committee regarding satisfactory implementation of smart parking solutions in all the parking as per the tendered document. However, there is no such report of the technical committee to that effect till date. In the absence of the same, even otherwise, the firm has no right to claim the enhancement of parking charges. I will place all these facts before both of the coming meetings,” Moudgil added.
 
 In a press statement, Mayor said as per the information given to him by the officials of the corporation, the work of management of 25 paid parking lots were allotted to this firm on June 16, 2017. The firm failed to deposit Rs 1,04,24,817 as balance amount of the second installment. 
 
 Thereafter, the third installment also fell due on December 25, 2017, as the firm did not deposit this amount also. The firm was asked by the MC through letters dated 1/1, 16/1 and 19/1/2018 to deposit a total amount of Rs 5,70,80,057 and to show cause as to why the contract may not be terminated.
 
  However, the company did not bother to deposit the same and when he summoned the file and put pressure on it, they deposited an amount of approximately Rs 1,00,00,000 only on March 16, 2018. Thus, an amount of about Rs 4.70 crore is still due with the MC
 
 It has been told that the concerned officers have been asked to see to it that the firm deposits the rest of the amount forthwith, otherwise legal action will be initiated as per law against the firm.
 
 
