PUNE: The district court on Saturday dismissed an   filed by the Pune Cantonment Board in the   case. 

 Pronouncing the operative part of the order in the open court, judge S B   told lawyers representing the board and the bakery that no interference was required in the trial court order. 
 
 Asked whether the   will appeal in the Bombay high court, PCB chief executive officer D N Yadav said, “My lawyers have given me information of the order passed by the district court. We will take a call after studying the order.” 
 
 Lawyer   representing the bakery said, “The statute has given power to the PCB and it is their responsibility and duty to decide trade licence application of the bakery, but they kept it pending for years without any decision.”
 
 He said, “The bakery partners are bona fide businessmen. There is high handedness on part of the PCB to close the business. We filed application for obtaining trade licence in 2018, and our premises has been inspected by a health officer and a satisfactory report given.” The case will now come for recording evidence and final hearing before the civil court senior division, he added. 
 
 The PCB had in October ordered the bakery and two other eateries in the area shut for not possessing a trade licence. The board had argued that the Cantonment Act, 2006 gave it the right to grant or reject an application for a trade licence.
 
 In the suit, Pervez H Kayani a partner in the bakery, said that the firm was doing business for the last 61 years from the premises which was granted on a perpetual lease on June 17, 1930, in favour of his predecessor. The PCB was issuing a trade licence to the bakery annually till March 31, 2007, under the Cantonment Act, 1924. The trade licence was valid on December 18, 2006, when the Cantonment Act, 2006 came into force. The shut down was ordered verbally without issuing any notice or an opportunity for a hearing, he stated, adding that the closure had affected the firm’s reputation, business and livelihood of its partners and 40-odd employees.
 
 Kayani had furnished copies of the trade licences issued earlier by the PCB and also the applications made every year thereafter for renewal of the licence (the last one was on February 22, 2017) which the PCB neither rejected nor accepted. It was argued this was in contravention of the provisions under sections 277 of the Cantonment Act, 2006, which allows the board to withhold a trade licence only if the business is offensive and dangerous or if the premises is unfit or unsuitable.
 
 
