NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has taken a decision to aggressively fight it out in the   (MWRRA) to ensure there is no reduction in raw drinking water reservation. MWRRA is likely to pronounce its order on city’s water reservation in a hearing on March 15.

 Mayor Nanda Jichkar along with former mayor and corporator Pravin Datke, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and officials from water works department will be present personally at the MWRRA hearing to ensure there is no cut in city’s raw drinking water reservation.
 
 The decision was taken in a meeting on Friday. Jichkar, Datke, deputy mayor Deepraj Pardikar, standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav, Mudgal, collector Sachin Kurwe, and officials of NMC and water resources department were present.
 
 Chairman of water works consultative committee Rajesh Ghodpage told TOI NMC will not allow MWRRA to reduce its raw drinking water reservation. “NMC’s reservation of 190 million meter cube (MMC) from   ( ) reservoir is too old. NMC has to cater to the water needs of city’s over 25 lakh population. Therefore, there is no question of reduction,” he said.
 
 Former Shiv Sena MLA from Ramtek Ashish Jaiswal had filed a petition in MWRRA challenging city’s reservation.
 
 NMC has permanent reservation of 112 MMC whereas temporary reservation of 78 MMC.   had asked NMC to pay Rs85.45 crore for converting temporary reservation into permanent in 2005. But the civic body has not paid a single penny. Therefore, reservation of 78 MMC is being reconsidered by MWRRA.
 
 Improve garbage segregation: Mhaiskar
 
 Principal secretary of urban development department Manisha Mhaiskar held a review meeting at NMC in the wake of Swachh Survekshan-2018, to be organized by central government soon in the city. She asked the civic body to take up garbage segregation seriously and improve its numbers.
 
 Mhaiskar also directed NMC to ensure cleanliness in and around Ganeshpeth MSRTC bus stand. She visited Swami Vivekananda Memorial, women’s special toilets installed by Rotary Club at Mhada Colony, Amravati Road, and beautification project at Hill Top, Ramnagar.
 
 She also asked NMC to install hoardings to spread awareness about cleanliness and Swachh Bharat Mission.
 
 City buses from Sitabuldi to NCI
 
 The NMC has taken a decision to start city bus service from Sitabuldi to National Cancer Institute (NCI), situated on Outer Ring Road near Jamtha. Inauguration of this special bus service will be held at 11am on Saturday at NCI. Total 10 trips will operate from Buldi between 7.45am and 5.10pm, and also from NCI to Buldi. NCI director Shailesh Joglekar had requested NMC to provide the services. NCI claims to have treated over 10,000 patients in last three months.
 
 
