In 2015, D   from Elachipalayam in Coimbatore was assaulted by the sand mafia when he went to stop illegal mining at an irrigation tank in Tirupur. Police arrested 10 people, but all of them turned out to be labourers working for the mining kingpin.

 “Police action, which are far and few, just stops with arresting such pawns,” says Prabhakaran.
 
 Whenever police claim they have caught a sand smuggler, it would invariably be the driver of the truck laden with illegally quarried sand. It is no secret that the driver is just a foot soldier and the last link in the chain. Others in the maze of network from police officials, bureaucrats and politicians are never brought to book. If the police-sand mafia nexus is the prime reason for the big fish escaping, absence of sharper laws also contributes to the scenario.
 
 Activists say imprisonment would deter the drivers and force them to reveal the names of their operators. But they are let off with just a penalty. The penalty is paid by the mafia and the driver walks free without any compulsion to reveal the names of the kingpins. The truck would also be registered in the name of someone else, hiding the identity of the kingpin. As a norm, the trucks are also released after penalty is paid.
 
 M Appavu, former   of Radhapuram in Tirunelveli, al,leges that it is indeed the corrupt lot in the police department who are helping illegal sand mining thrive. “Forget about stopping illegal sand mining, when someone gets murdered for attempting to stop quarrying, police don’t bring to book the culprits,’’ he says.
 
 Upright police officials who tend to take action face several stumbling blocks. “The first stumbling block comes from within our own department and we are isolated as cracking down on the sand mafia will dry up the monthly bribe. In most cases, honest officials will be shunted out to other areas,’’ says a DSP.
 
 Police also point out legal handicaps in bringing to book the kingpins. A police officer said more often the drivers of the sand trucks will escape as soon as police round them up. “The truck alone will be seized and handed over to the revenue department. Bogus bills will be presented claiming the sand was purchased from a depot,’’ he said.
 
 I Gopalsamy of the Tamirabarani Protection Movement says there is no stringent legal deterrent. “Only one in 100 smugglers is caught. The penalty equals the value of only one or two loads of sand he smuggles. The truck owner pays it and resumes smuggling,’’ he pointed out.
 
 R Sakthivel, anti–mining activist from Palamadai in Tirunelveli, said that after repeated complaints that were ignored, he approached senior officials with proof of the nexus between sand mafia and police. “I had sent telephone records of a few police inspectors who regularly talked to mining kingpins. Senior officials had no choice to but to take action,’’ he said.
 
  superintendent of police P Pakalavan, however, said police are doing their best. He said they have been conducting regular checks in and around sand smuggling prone areas in the Palar river such as Walajapet, Ranipet and Thakkolam. Apart from this, surprise checks in transit points of the Vellore-Chennai roads have been carried out often.
 
 It resulted in the arrest of a total of 511   in 710 cases since January this year.
 
 (With inputs from J Shanmugasundaram and M K Ananth)
 
 
