BATHINDA: The   ( ) has accused the Punjab vigilance bureau of not presenting a   in the court against a senior executive engineer of the state water resources department even after a year of his arrest for allegedly accepting bribe.

 The association alleged that as the case of accepting graft pertained to construction of water courses in four districts of Malwa region, which was directly linked to farmers, it had decided to hold a convention on March 3 in   where the issue would be raised.
 
 With the vigilance not submitting the challan in the court, the accused   was promoted as superintending engineer (SE) pending the inquiry.
 
 Singla, who was then an executive engineer in the Punjab State Water Resources Management and Development Corporation at Bathinda, was arrested while allegedly accepting Rs 50,000 as bribe on January 10, 2017. The vigilance bureau had recovered Rs 15.33 lakh in the denomination of Rs 2,000 notes from his residence. Later, the bureau had filed another case against Singla on March 15, 2017 of amassing assets of Rs 4.81 crore, disproportionate to his known sources of income.
 
 Talking to newspersons in Bathinda on Monday, IFA president Satnam Singh Behru and Shiromani Akali Dal activist   alleged, “The Union water resources ministry had sent Rs 929 crore in 2015 for the construction of water courses out of   branch canal in Bathinda, Mansa, Sangrur and Barnala. Apart from it, the famers had paid their share of 10%. The then executive engineer is accused to have siphoned money of the project and was arrested by vigilance bureau. The vigilance has not presented the challan against him in the court due to which the departmental promotion committee (DPC) on June 30, 2017 promoted Singla to the post of an SE pending inquiry claiming no charges have been framed against him.”
 
 Vigilance bureau SSP   Bhagtana said, “We have almost prepared the chargesheets against Singla in both cases. One chargesheet will be presented in the court this week and in the case of disproportionate assets case, it will be presented in February.”
 
 
