BENGALURU: Six years after the Centre cleared it, the   (ROB) on   is still on paper. And today, it has become a poll issue with residents saying they will vote for the party that promises to complete this bridge.

 The project was cleared by the UPA-II government in 2012, when the BJP was at the helm in Karnataka. A year later, the Siddaramaiah-led Congress took charge, but hasn’t completed the project. The estimated cost of the project, which was to be implemented on a cost-sharing basis, is Rs 28 crore. Of this, BBMP was supposed to pay Rs 19.2 crore and the railways agreed to invest Rs 8.8 crore.
 
 
 The Kaggadasapura railway crossing has CV Raman Nagar constituency on one side with BJP’s S Raghu holding fort, and KR Puram on the other, which has Congress MLA B A Basavaraja. Residents say they are caught in this political divide and allege non-cooperation between the two legislators could be the cause for delay.
 
 The issue dates back to 2003 when locals protested by burning tyres, demanding a manned level-crossing, and the railways fulfilled their wish soon after. The single railway line connecting Bengaluru and Salem turned a bane for motorists as Kaggadasapura grew rapidly during the IT boom.
 
 The level-crossing located on Kaggadasapura Main Road is the lifeline for an estimated 1 lakh motorists daily. Incessant traffic halts are a daily affair — especially during rush hour — when the level-crossing is frequently closed for trains to pass. The beeline of vehicles to pass the level-crossing create bottlenecks on Kaggadasapura Main Road as well as the stretch towards Outer Ring Road on the other side.
 
 “Residents and motorists who frequent the stretch began a protest demanding construction of an overbridge. After repeated requests and protests, the Centre sanctioned a Y-shaped ROB in 2012,” said Vinod Vijayakumaran, a resident of Kaggadasapura and a techie with SAP Labs.
 
 Rashmita Jena, another resident, said there were more protests following an incident involving a school bus, but in vain.
 
 Residents said the government marked some buildings for land acquisition after chief minister Siddaramaiah inspected the spot in 2014. Owners were even promised Rs 6,000 per sqft, but nothing has happened since.
 
 A senior South Western Railway official said the land has to be acquired by BDA first and that the process cannot begin without that. Multiple BDA officials TOI tried to contact did not comment, citing election duty as the reason.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
