Mumbai: ‘Deceptive responses’ in a polygraph test have led to the arrest of a   of   Arpita Tiwari, who died in suspicious circumstances in a Malad high-rise over a month ago. The suspect, Amit Hazra, 28, was summoned for questioning by the Malwani police for a number of days following Tiwari’s death, initially treated as accidental, but later filed as a murder case. 

 “There are inconsistencies in the statements he made before us and his responses in the polygraph test. Based on its result, which suggested that some of his responses were deceptive, along with circumstantial evidence, we took Hazra into custody on Monday,” said a police officer. “We have found reasonable involvement of him in the crime. Prima facie, it appears he acted alone in committing the offence.”
 
 Hailing from Dhanbad, Jharkhand, Hazra works as a texture artist at an advertising film production company. He was produced at the Borivli magistrate’s court on Monday and was remanded in police custody till January 20. Tiwari’s family members, who made rounds of the police station for weeks demanding justice, said they were glad the police had acted. “We believe that the other men last seen with Tiwari on the night she died are also involved in the crime. We will ask the police when they intend to arrest the others,” said Tiwari’s sister Shweta.
 
 Besides murder, Hazra has been charged with ‘causing disappearance of evidence of offence or giving false information to screen offender’ under the IPC.
 
 TOI was the first to report about the polygraph test on Hazra and four other men last seen with Tiwari the night she died. A DNA analysis confirmed that Tiwari was not sexually abused. Forensic tests revealed the presence of alcohol in her blood.
 
 For a lie detection test, the accused’s consent is a must. By law, polygraph and similar tests, like narco-analysis, are investigation tools and their results are not legally admissible as substantive evidence in themselves. The Supreme Court had categorically   that such tests cannot be conducted without the consent of the subject and that even where a test is taken voluntarily, it cannot be admitted as evidence unless backed with some substantial piece of evidence. The results can be used as corroborative evidence, but not as substantive evidence, which could be solely relied on.
 
 On December 10, 2017, Tiwari told her family she was going to EsselWorld for emceeing at an event. At night, she called and said she would come home late for dinner. But she did not return. The same night, Tiwari and her boyfriend, Pankaj Jadhav, met Hazra, who was a common friend. They went to two suburban resto-bars where they ate and had drinks. Tiwari footed the bills at both places.
 
 Around 3am, the three reached Manavsthal Society, a high-rise at Malad (West), where Hazra lived in a 15th floor rented flat with three flatmates and a cook, Krishna. One of the flatmates was away that night (see graphic for more details on the case).
 
 
