In the home of a family in JP Nagar, first-time   candidate from Jayanagar assembly constituency,   is all ears as she listens to each member in the family. She makes it a point to clasp the hand of all those who wish her even as she waves to those peeping down from balconies as she walks through the constituency.

 The first-time contestant draws her high levels of comfort during campaign not only from party workers and supporters accompanying her but her father, home minister Ramalinga Reddy, who is her constant companion. Ramalinga, who represented Jayanagar for nearly 20 years, has been seeking re-election from neighbouring BTM Layout.
 
 The father-daughter duo make it a point to campaign together in Jayanagar, starting as early as 8am. Reddy’s campaign schedule in his segment will begin from May 1.
 
 Clad in a bright pink sari with a tricolour scarf around her neck,   is in stark contrast to the impeccable, trademark white her father dons. The duo has already visited a number of spots within Jayanagar including KSRTC Colony, Shakambari Nagar and Byrasandra ward.
 
 The 35-year-old believes she has earned the Congress ticket. She says she is not oblivious to her privilege but is sure that it is her manifesto for her constituency that will count. “Apart from the problems of roti, kapda and makaan, I also plan to focus on removing unemployment, empowering women and making them financially self-sufficient and improving government schools and hospitals in my area. I want to make Jayanagar a model constituency,” she says.
 
 “I am sure we will comfortably get 120-125 seats at least. The focus this time is to consolidate votes of people who are as yet undecided. We cannot bank on our traditional voters alone. Due to the trust deficit with  , we have to get those voters on our side,” said Reddy exuding confidence.
 
 Soumya and her father are trying to cover as much ground as possible. A typical interaction consists of a meeting at a house in a locality, with everyone else from the neighbourhood gathering to save time. The home minister asks everyone to show the same love and respect to her, that they accorded him 10 years ago.
 
 “Congress has always run a secular agenda. Our party built this country; we will not allow   to ruin it in four years. The BJP government is adept at peddling falsehoods and passing them off as scriptures. Despite their promises, there are no jobs for the poor,” he said, addressing voters in a Muslim-dominated locality in ward 171.
 
 Drinking countless cups of tea and coffee, obliging supporters with selfies and asking for the blessing of endless community elders, the Reddys put up a united front. Soumya is keen that people understand her background and what she represents. In particular, she hopes that educated, youngsters actually come out and exercise their democratic right, instead of merely complaining.
 
 “Voting is more than a right, it’s a responsibility but voter turnout in urban areas has always hinged at 50-55%. I have worked with people at the grassroots level. My idea of governance is a participatory one and if everyone is so opinionated about what’s wrong, let it come out in their choice of candidate. We need more activists in positions of authority and in Parliament. Voices must never be hushed,” she said.
 
