

 For the last 25 years I have been working relentlessly for the improvement of education, from the school-level to the professional, both in terms of accessibility and quality. One of my focus areas is the uplift of tribals, besides hunger and poverty alleviation through education. Since I have been working in this field, besides making a tremendous contribution to art, literature and culture, I will concentrate on providing education, social services and welfare measures to the common man if I am elected to the Rajya Sabha. My dream is the welfare of the common man.
 
  
 
 
 It is too early to comment on this. I will do whatever the party decides. We will decide when the time comes. But the welfare of the poor will remain at the core of my work.
 
  
 
 
 As an MP, I will first try to present myself with the same honesty, transparency, integrity, simplicity and humility that I have maintained since my childhood. I think one important role of an MP is his or her contribution to meaningful deliberations in Parliament.
 
  
 
 
 I have never thought of joining politics. I have been telling people that I want to receive a few national and international awards, which people say I deserve. I have been working towards that. I express my thanks and gratitude to chief minister   for considering my candidature for the Rajya Sabha on the basis of my work.
 
  
 
 
 It came all of a sudden. It was not planned, at least from my side. I remain awfully busy with work. Even when the indication came to me, I was busy with an assignment. But I had no second thoughts. I am thankful to the chief minister for reposing faith in me.
 
  
 
 
 It will be divided well. I am a workaholic. I have been working tirelessly for the last 25 years without taking a single day's break. God has been kind to me. I have never suffered from any major ailment that required me to be in bed, even for a day. With the Almighty's grace, I have worked with the same energy and enthusiasm for so many years. I will continue to do all the work assigned to me with diligence and without one affecting the other.
 
  
 
 
 They were talking among themselves. But since everybody knew I had no interest in politics, no party gave me a direct offer to join it.
 
  
 
 
 In Odisha, the late   is my favourite. Overall, it is definitely  . I consider them towering and statesmanlike, great sources of inspiration.
 
  
 
 It's for the head of the state to have a vision for the state. But in my capacity as a parliamentarian, if I am elected, I will contribute in whichever way possible. At the same time I will try my best not to deviate from my own path. We have built institutions by toiling hard.
 
  
 
 
 I haven't thought about it till now. Let the time come.
 
 
