BHOPAL: The state   has been constantly making promises to provide jobs to youths ever since it came to power 14 years ago, but has failed to fulfill its promise to a large extent. If unemployment figures and study conducted by government agencies are any indication, it has not been successful even in creating an atmosphere in which low-skilled workers could migrate to foreign countries in search of greener pastures.

 
 Official figures suggest that there are 23.7 lakh educated jobless youths in the state. Moreover, a recent study conducted by   on international migration of low skilled workers from MP points out that it is a grey area which the government need to focus for the welfare of youths. The study was aimed to find out the reason for increasing level of unemployment among youths in MP and their quest to get employment anywhere in the world to earn livelihood. It pointed out that the trend of international migration is weak in MP in comparison to other states.
 
 There is no system in place to help unemployed youths of MP get a placement in other countries. The government intervention is necessary to boost the migration process by creating awareness among the young population in alignment with specific skill development training programme.
 
 
 The training programme should be such that it gets recognised certification as per the respective International Occupational Standards so that youths may be employed internationally, said the study.
 
 
 It stated that role of state government should be to promote and to make students/residents aware about the existing international opportunities and mandatory conditions of migrations like certification process, besides training needs to conform to international standards.
 
 
 On a pilot basis, the concerned department in the state should concentrate on countries which have less difficult visa conditions, certification issues and migration norms like the  . The government should also hire placement agencies to get the youths placed globally, the study stated.
 
 
 The key recommendations of the study are development of programmes which can facilitate international placement. “The quality of trainers in the state needs to be enhanced. A dedicated governance structure is recommended as such activities will require continuous monitoring and management of the programmes and also coordination at various levels. The state government must provide a time-bound financial subsidy to students towards training cost in the programme in order to counter the general reluctance to adopt high skilled work as a livelihood option”, the study said.
 
 
 Amid war over pakodas, the number of educated jobless youth registering with the employment exchange has shot up from 15.6 lakh in 2015 to 23.7 lakh in 2017 — a shocking 53% rise in two years. The state economic survey, tabled in the assembly a day before the budget, painted a dismal picture, showing that only 129 people got employment in 2016.
 
 
 It’s an indication that the government’s attempts at creating jobs through industrialization have not borne fruit, mostly because a significant percentage of   signed by the government at global investor summit (GIS) failed to materialize, say sources.
 
