MADURAI: After successfully testing a cellphone application to prevent housebreaks, the district police have now launched another that can make it easy for investigating officers to get hold of records and other details about criminals within minutes. 
 
 Titled ‘Cops eye’, the application can be downloaded on mobile phones and used by the police officers. It can process a suspect’s image by comparing it with the photos uploaded onto the servers and tell whether the person has a criminal record,. 
  
 Deputy Inspector General of police, Madurai range   launched the application in the presence of police superintendent  . “When an innocent person is detained based on suspicion, it took two to three hours of time to check their fingerprint details on the data available and get the result, before releasing him. Now, it can be checked instantly with the help of photo,” Pradip Kumar said. 
  
 The application has been developed based on artificial intelligence technology. Apart from using it on mobile phone, it can be used with the help of static cameras as well. Cameras fitted with the technology will be installed in toll gates and other important junctions. When the movement of a suspect is detected in the static camera, it will alert the higher police officers. At present they are planning to install the system at 15 different places, with plans to extend it on later. 
  
 Manivannan said that the app, which can detect the face with 93 percent accuracy, is only for the police and there would be user ID and password given to each user. “We have uploaded the details of over 2000 criminals from Madurai city and the district to the system. We will get information from other southern districts and add them up later,” he said. 
  
 In the database, the criminal records in as many as 16 heads including attention diversion, cheating, dacoity, housebreaking, murder, robbery snatching and vehicle thefts would be uploaded, said the officials.   and his team from   developed the app for the police. 
  
 This was the second cellphone application to be launched by the district police. In December 2017, a mobile application called ‘Madurai Kavalan’ to prevent house break-in incidents was launched by the police unit. Manivannan said that the app has been receiving good response from the public. So far, over 2,000 persons have downloaded the app. 
  
  
