MUMBAI: A total of 23,857 flights were operated between Mumbai and Bengaluru in 2017, making the sector one of the 20 busiest air routes in the world. If only the domestic routes are taken into account,  , with around 65 flights every day, was the 16th busiest in the world, according to data released by UK’s  , an air travel intelligence company. 

 Besides, Bengaluru-Delhi was the 12th busiest route in the world with 29,427 flights between the two airports last year. In fact, four of the top five busiest air routes (both international and domestic together) were in the Asia-Pacific region, with Brazil’s Rio De Janeiro- Sao Paulo (5) being the only outsider. 
 
 Among international routes also, all the top five routes were within Asia and only two non-Asian routes—New York La Guardia-Toronto (6) and Dublin-London   (9)—in the top 10. Hong Kong- Taipei was the busiest international route in the world last year, with 29,494 flights. If both domestic and international routes are listed together, Hong Kong-Taipei would be the 11th busiest in the world. Jeju-Seoul, the busiest domestic route, had an average on-time performance (OTP) of 74.06 %. According to OAG, a flight is considered to be on time if it arrives/depart under 15 minutes of its scheduled time. 
 
 
  
 A senior A320 commander said: “If the other airports that are as busy or busier than Mumbai and Delhi can manage better punctuality, why can’t we better ourselves?’’ On the Melbourne-Sydney route, for instance, airlines recorded an OTP of 74 %. Melbourne airport has a set of cross runways, very much like Mumbai, while Sydney has three runways, which include a set of parallel runways, comparable to the three runways of Delhi. 
 
 However, Melbourne handles about 10 million less passengers than Mumbai does annually. The two major factors that influence OTP are scale and complexity of operations. Airlines such as   and   that operate both domestic and long-haul international flights run a complex route network, than say, GoAir, IndiGo or SpiceJet which largely operate domestic routes. When it comes to the scale of operations, IndiGo (81.2 % punctuality) was ranked fourth in the OTP list for top 20 mega airlines (biggest in the world in terms of number of scheduled flights operated). But this OTP data takes into account only arrivals and so the role of “schedule padding’’ done by most airlines cannot be ruled out. 
 For instance: a schedule padding has a 1 hour, 50 minutelong flight listed as 2 hour, 20 minute-long flight so that a delay in departure can doesn’t show up as a delay in arrival.
 
