NEW DELHI: It’s been 60 years since the Dalai Lama arrived to live in   in India. Thousands of   too fled the mountainous theocracy with him. Many of them are settled in  , formally  , in north Delhi, and the locality bears the imprint of the place left behind with its cheerful prayer flags, ornate monasteries and restaurants redolent of a distinctive cuisine. But it is also home to people who perhaps have no link with Tibet expect of an emotional nature, having been born and brought up in Majnu ka Tilla’s vicinity.

 For the generation born in India, alienation from their historical country is a reality. As 20-something Lobsang Rigzin said, “I have never been to Tibet, only heard stories from parents and family elders. India is where I belong— it is my home.” But like all Tibetans, he added, “We do our best to stay connected with our Tibetan heritage and I hope to visit Tibet one day.”
 
 This bitter history is reinforced every year on March 10, when the Tibetans observe “Tibetan Uprising Day”. The Tibetan government-in-exile had planned a “Thank You India” event in New Delhi this year for the home the refugees have got all these years. But the Indian government asked officials and political leaders to say away from the programme, leading the organisers to move the function to Dharamshala on March 31.
 
 This reality of India’s increasingly sensitive relations with China has left Majnu ka Tilla’s residents in no delusion. “The Indian government’s decision to ask us to downgrade the commemoration of His Holiness the Dalai Lama’s escape to India is silly,” bristled Tenzin Yega, a young Tibetan student. “The Dalai Lama is a religious leader who always speaks about peace. This change in stand is wrong as China gets the upper hand in the region.”
 
 Most Tibetans, young or old, are not as openly critical as Yega, and this is exemplified in businesswoman Pasang’s views: “We don’t mind India cosying up to China because we understand every overture cannot be viewed from the same prism. I am 90% hopeful Tibetan will be freed through peaceful means just as the Dalai Lama says, but we do realise that China is very powerful.”
 
 The toughness of the proposition is not lost on the Tibetans. “Maybe it will take generations for us to achieve our goal,” reasoned Kunga Ngodup, a staff member at the Samyeling Settlement Office in Majnu ka Tilla. “But Tibetans across the world hope to go home one day. Until then, we will try our best to preserve our language, culture and philosophy.”
 
 Ngodup, perhaps mindful of the geopolitical truths, added, “A lot of young Tibetans want instant results, but they need to understand they have to be patient.” Without giving a time frame, a young shopkeeper, who didn't wish to be named, insisted, “Tibet has to be free, not matter what.” 
 
 The older generation differs when it comes to their goals and methods. “We understand the sensitivities involved. When the Doklam standoff occurred last year, we were worried about an escalation on the border,” said Namgyal Tshering, 52, a volunteer associated with the Refugee Welfare Association’s proposed protest on March 10.
 
 Tshering nuanced the views of his ilk by saying that their hope lay now in China becoming more democratic. “The Dalai Lama doesn’t believe in violence, and if needed, we can wait for another century. China cannot remain a communist dictatorship for long and will eventually become a democracy,” he argued, citing Hong Kong as an example.
 
 Between the ground realities and a dream kept alive by generational hurt, Majnu ka Tilla lives today, the frustrations all hidden behind bright smiles.
 
 
