Kolkata:  , the global food giant, has set a turnaround target for Complan, its flagship brand in India along with Glucon D. After revamping   with changed formulation in August last year, the company is eyeing a double-digit market share in the milk food drink (MFD) segment, which is dominated by Horlicks of GSK. Complan had a double-digit market share in MFD category three-four years back, but then it slipped to singe digit following various reasons. 

 The new MD of KraftHeinz, Sankalp Pothbhare, said that the revamp of Complan last year has paid off and it has gained 2% market-share in West Bengal to 15% in current fiscal. West Bengal is the second biggest market for this health drink after Tamil Nadu. Both states taken together contributes half of the volume of Complan in India. The total market for MFD in India currently stands at Rs 6,000 crore where Tamil Nadu accounts for 30% of the market and West Bengal 15%. 
 
 As per industry sources, Complan and Glucon D together contribute almost 85%-88% to the revenue of KraftHeinz in India. The rest is coming from Nycil, ketchup and cheese. Complan as a brand reportedly had a revenue of Rs 700 crore last year while Horlicks, the market leader in MFD, had a size of Rs 2,200 crore. The other main players in the category are Boost of GSK and Bournvita from Mondelez. 
 
 According to the new MD, after the relaunch of Complan, the company is looking for both volume and margin. He also indicated that KraftHeinz s also exploring the possibility to enter adult nutrition market in India. Pothbhare feels that if the US food giant does that then it may be done with the extension of Complan brand only, the strongest food brand of the company in South Asia. 
 
 When asked about new launches, he added that it is now concentrating on consolidation of business in India. Globally Kraft, Heinz and Planters are the three biggest brands of the food giant with each brand having revenue of over $1 billion. The company globally has 100 brands out of which eight are over $1billion brands. The company has recently roped in Sourav Ganguly as brand ambassador for Complan. 
 
 
