GHAZIABAD: Former Sahibabad MLA   was booked on Wednesday for allegedly trying to extort Rs 10 lakh from a Sahibabad-based realtor. Sharma, who has been booked in the extortion case along with two other persons, is currently lodged in   for his alleged role in the murder of local BJP worker   in Khoda in September last year.

 Sharma allegedly made the call using a mobile phone while he was in   district court on Tuesday for a hearing in the Bhati murder case in which he is a co-accused. According to police, the matter pertains to an old rivalry between Sharma and the complainant   (59).
 
 Chaudhary told TOI he received a call on his mobile phone at 12.40 pm on April 10 by a person claiming to be Amarpal Sharma. “The former MLA claimed he was calling me from the court premises. He abused me using the foulest language possible and threatened me. He asked me to send Rs 10 lakh for him to the jail or face dire consequences,” Chaudhary said.
 
 The alleged call lasted for around three minutes. Chaudhary, who owns a commercial complex at   in Ghaziabad which is adjacent to Delhi, has claimed to have had no past enmity with Sharma. Chaudhary’s son, Yogesh, is an active BJP worker and was elected as councilor from the Shahid Nagar ward of Ghaziabad in the urban local body polls in 2012.
 
 On the basis of a complaint lodged by Chaudhary, an FIR was registered under IPC sections 386 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against Sharma and two others identified as Afzal and Baba. According to police, Afzal and Baba, both of whom were arrested on Wednesday, are employees of Sharma.
 
 “The allegations are fabricated. It is impossible for Sharma to make a phone call and that too demanding ransom from police custody during a hearing in court. It also needs to be verified if the complainant has a recording of the call or if he is making the allegations on thin air,” Rahul, an aide of the ex-MLA, said.
 
 Police investigations revealed that Sharma and Chaudhary earlier had a dispute over a plot of land owned by Sharma adjacent to Chaudhary’s commercial complex. The fight began around seven months ago, when Sharma erected steel shutters barring outside entry into his plot through the complex.
 
 “Prima facie, it seems to be a case of property dispute and not extortion per se. However, given the serious nature of allegations that have been made, an FIR was immediately registered and investigations are underway. From initial investigations it has become clear that Sharma and Chaudhary also had been business partners in the past. We are also ascertaining the veracity of allegations of a phone call having been made by Sharma while he was in police custody inside the court premises,” Ghaziabad police SSP Vaibhav Krishna said.
 
 
