GURUGRAM: A city court has directed   to register a criminal case against   and it directors for allegedly cheating investors by fraudulently selling units without having an approved building plan.

 This is the second FIR to be filed against the developer, who has been accused of selling common toilets as office space in its commercial project on Golf Course Road Extension.
 
 In its order passed on March 16, judicial magistrate 1st Class (JMiC) Manish Kumar said considering all facts, prima facie it appeared that cognizable offence had been committed under sections 420 (cheating), 406 (criminal breach of trust), 467 (forgery), 468 (cheating), 471 (using a forged document as genuine) of the IPC. Hence, the court directed police to lodge an FIR in this case. 
 
 The order was passed on the complaints filed by Rakesh Kumar, Mukesh Chellani, Dejee Singh, Salang Ram Baveja, Kamal Kumar Luthra and Naresh Ahuja, who had booked units in   developed by Sana Realtors in Sector 67.
 
 In a similar case, the court had on January 5 directed police to file an FIR against Sana Realtors. Then, in its March 16 order, the court observed police could either file a separate FIR in this case or this complaint could be attached with the FIR already registered. 
 
 The court observed that the builder had obtained the approval for the building plan in July 2011. 
 
 However, it had entered into agreements with the complainants in April 2010 to sell office units and received part payments from them.
 
 Rakesh Kumar, one of the complainants, alleged that the builder fraudulently sold them the units and made them deposit their hard-earned money even before it got the approval for the building plan. “The building plan was approved almost a year after the booking of the units,” he added. 
 
 In this regard, Handa, who owns another office space in Sana Realtors’ Sector 50 project Silverton Towers, had found through an RTI query that multiple buyers were handed over common toilet as office units. 
 
 In its preliminary probe, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has found the allegations to be true. It also cancelled the completion certificate of Silverton Towers for non-compliance with building and licence norms.
 
 The directors of Sana Realtors could not be reached despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
