BATHINDA: Farmers of Tamkot village in Mansa on Friday gheraoed a team of the Punjab State Cooperative Agriculture Development Bank (PADB) that had arrived to recover loan amount from a farmer.   of Tamkot owes Rs 38 lakh to the bank. He has eight acres of land.

 When the bank team, led by the bank’s Mansa-based assistant general manager (AGM) Sukhjinder Singh, arrived in Tamkot, neighbours of Dal informed activists of farmer organization   ( ). Volunteers of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) immediately reached the village and gheraoed the PADB team.
 
 In 1998, Dal had taken a loan of Rs 10 lakh and in 2000, he took another loan of Rs 6 lakh, making the total outstanding amount to Rs 16 lakh. He returned Rs 4 lakh over the years while the bank calculated the total outstanding amount against him at Rs 38 lakh.
 
 Last month, PADB started move to make recoveries of loans from big farmers and started staging dharnas outside their residences.
 
 The bank has an outstanding of Rs 1,530 crore towards nearly 1 lakh farmers at 89 branches across Punjab. Two days ago, bank officials had staged dharna outside residence of woman Akali leader Rajinder Kaur at Barnala for recovery of Rs 41 lakh.
 
 Significantly, CM Amarinder Singh is set to start loan waiver scheme from Mansa on Sunday for marginal farmers for loans advanced from cooperative banks. Around 46,000 beneficiaries would be provided loan waiver certificates worth Rs 170 core under the scheme.
 
 Dal said, “On Friday, bank officials descended on my house to recover the outstanding amount of Rs 38 lakh, which I am unable to pay. I had learnt that government is planning to waive off the loans so I decided to wait.”
 
 BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) district Mansa president Ram Singh Bhainibagha said, “As the Congress had promised to waive off all farm loans, we want them to keep their word. Now the government is claiming that loans up to Rs 2 lakh will be written off and that, too, only of marginal farmers. We have planned to protest against it and gheraoed the bank officials to show the government that farmers will not return the loans.”
 
 PADB AGM told  , “We had gone to Tamkot only to ask the farmer to repay the loan amount but the farmer organization held a dharna and stopped us from going back. The bank has already started the move to make recoveries and we are only visiting big farmers against whom big amounts are pending.”
 
