LUDHIANA: At a time when students are already battling stress ahead of their final board exams, proposed deployment of teachers of PSEB-affiliated schools for MC election duty has added to their woes.

 The election for Ludhiana municipal corporation is scheduled for February 24 and the final exams of   will start from February 28.
 
 The district has 535 middle and higher secondary schools which have approximately 6,000 teachers. According to information, about 4,500 teachers would be deployed for MC elections.
 
 In several schools, more than 80% of teaching staff would be on election duty, including those teaching important subjects like physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology, English and science.
 
 As many as 41 teachers of Government Model Senior Secondary School have been picked for election duties; 24 teachers in Government Senior Secondary School, Khanna; 23 teachers of Government Senior Secondary School, Samrala; 21 teachers of Government Senior Secondary School, Sherpur Kalan; 28 teachers of Government Boys Senior Secondary School, Jagraon; 21 teachers of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jagroan; 19 teachers of Government Girls Senior Secondary School, Jawahar Nagar; 28 teachers of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Girls Senior Secondary School, Bharat Nagar; 24 teachers of Government High School, Amloh road Khanna.
 
 Kamaljeet Singh of Government Senior Secondary School, Sherpur Kalan, said, “The school has 25 teachers out of which 21 teachers would be on  . Only 4 teachers will be left to manage studies of students.”
 
 Importantly, these teachers will have to attend training and rehearsal on February 10 and 18, which are holidays. The kids are not happy as they say they go to their teachers for assistance even on holidays. Teachers will then be busy on February 23 and February 24.
 
 A class X student said, “Every hour is important for us. We wanted our teachers to assist us even on holidays, but they have been deployed on election duties ahead of exams. The government should have scheduled elections keeping the final exams in mind.”
 
 Another class XII student said, “We need teachers not only for the last minute preparation, but also for motivation. The teachers are more worried about election duties than our exams.”
 
 
