CHANDIGARH: The economic offences wing ( ) of Chandigarh police have submitted the   against   Polycrete, a Delhi-based firm, in the iron ore   which involved cheating Punjab Agro Foodgrain Corporation Limited ( ) of Rs 22 crore in Chandigarh district court.

 The chargesheet has been submitted against Sudesh Kumar Jain, managing director,   and Nischal Jain, both directors of the Reliance Polycrete company, Kailash Chand and Vinay Manchanda, both employees of Reliance Polycrete, Virender Saini and Shad Anwar who is an advocate. Meanwhile, all the arrested accused are out on bail and the case is scheduled for hearing in the court of chief judical magistrate (CJM) on March 31.
 
 As per EOW, the chargesheet has been submitted under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), on the complaint of  , general manager, Sukhwinder Kaur, assistant manager and Satish Kumar, manager – accounts of the Punjab Agro Foodgrains Corporation Limited. 
 
 In the 2104 pages chargesheet, the EOW has made 32 witnesses including Romila Dube (IAS) who conducted the inquiry of the case.
 
 According to EOW officials, the Delhi-based company Reliance Polycrete Company on April 2, 2004 had applied for a business finance for spreading its business with Punjab Agro Industries Corporation, for the export of iron ore. The managing director of Reliance Polycrete along with others, to procure the finance from PAFCL, submitted documents of their properties in Delhi and Meerut (UP) as security to the PAFCL, following which the PAFCL sanctioned a finance up to Rs 50 crore to the Reliance Polycrete, out of which, the company availed Rs 22 crore. The company continued to pay its returns for sometime to PAFCL, but started defaulting on the payments from sometime later.
 
 Then to recover the remaining amount from the Reliance Polycrete, the PAFCL officials initiated the recovery process from the properties, whose documents Reliance Polycrete had submitted with them to avail the finance. However, the PAFCL management found that the documents of the properties submitted, were forged. It was also learnt later that the property of Meerut did not match with the documents submitted while the property of Delhi did not exist at all. An inquiry was then marked by the Punjab Government in the matter and was conducted by IAS officer Romila Dube. Dube submitted her report to the PAFCL mentioning that a few government officials did not adhere to the pre-requisite norms while approving the loan to the company. However, the report did not mention the name of any official, said an official of EOW.
 
