INDORE: A   struck terror in a middle-class locality of Indore, less than 4km from the airport, on Friday morning, slashing and clawing four persons as most residents shut themselves indoors and the rest ran around in panic.

 
 Dozens of smartphone cameras caught heart-stopping footage of the leopard darting into houses in   and down staircases, leaping at foresters, its fangs bared and claws searching for flesh. Cornered, the wildcat fought ferociously to escape. It took two tranquillizer darts to end three and a half hours of pandemonium. The leopard was drawn by stray dogs, believes the  . Until 10am, Palhar Nagar was having just another day. And then a painter saw the leopard saunter in. He couldn’t believe his eyes. It was a proper residential locality, 4.5km from the nearest forest, Bijasan Ramana. Soon, half the colony was at the windows, gaping at the big cat as it prowled the colony, apparently looking for prey.
 
 
  were informed and a team arrived to inquire. Within minutes, 25 forest officials and 15 animal experts from Indore zoo hurried over. They threw a cordon around a building in which the wildcat was seen and closed in with a net. The leopard was quick to sense danger.
 
 Perhaps terrified by the hooting crowd, it jumped out of the building and attacked   R C Choubey, catching him in the rear and hurling him on the ground. The hoots turned into screams as the leopard snarled at the crowd, baring its fangs.
 
 It left Choubey and darted into the house of a Patodi family. Elderly Samta Patodi and her daughter-in-law Sunita were in the house when the leopard sprang over their boundary wall. They shut their doors and windows, fearing for their lives. Forest officials shot four tranquiliser darts as the big cat took the stairs to the first floor. Only two hit.
 
 “We fired two darts. Both of them missed. The third one hit the target. The tranquillizer we used was according to the size of the leopard, but it proved insufficient. So another shot was fired,” zoo-incharge Uttam Yadav said. Exhausted, the leopard lay down, panting. But an hour later, when SDO R N Saxena checked on the leopard, it sprang up and went for the jugular. By reflex, the forest officer put up his hand and the leopard clamped down on his shoulder. The leopard’s momentum threw Saxena on the ground. Scores of onlookers, who had gathered around the leopard believing it was unconscious, scattered in terror.
 
 Forest staff tried to throw a net around the leopard, but it jumped free and clawed two others. The tranquilisers finally started having an effect and the leopard fell unconscious around 1.30pm. Rescue teams moved it into a steel cage and carried him to the zoo, as the crowd cheered, carrying the shooter on their shoulders. Residents braved even a mild lathicharge to catch a glimpse of the caged leopard.
 
 Palhar Nagar, known for its stray dog menace, is surrounded by agricultural land, forest area and open stretches. Experts say the leopard wandered into the residential area to hunt dogs. 
 
