ALLAHABAD: Getting permission for playing DJs in events like marriage, birthdays, etc., at guesthouses and hostels is easier now. The state government has launched online system on its e-district website where applicants can fill verification form to get the permission online. The filled forms would be forwarded to sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) who would grant the permission.

 Till now, an applicant had to spend days making rounds of government officies to get the required permission.
 
 SP (Protocol) Purnendu   said, “Once an applicant submits application online, the   would the one and only authority to give permission with or without police verification. The SDM would also forward the permission to the applicant online with his digital signature. The police station concerned would receive a copy of the permission online as well.” 
 
 He added, “ If an application is rejected by the SDM, both the applicant and police station concerned would get the information online regarding the rejection.”
 
 Singh said, “The applicant will have to online submit all details including name, permanent address, mobile, e-mail, number of DJs\loudspeakers sought, nature of programme – religious, cultural, marriage or party, name of location, nature of spot – residential, industrial, commercial and other zone along with duration of playing musical instruments, open or closed hall and details of   loudspeaker owners.”
 
 The applicant also have to follow the norms of Noise Pollution (Regulation and Control Rules) 2000, while using DJ or   or the applicant would be punished for five years imprisonment and Rs one lakh fine or both for violation of norms.
 
 Singh said that the volume of the DJs or loudspeakers would be between 10 decibel and 75 decibel or the applicant would be charged with violation of noise pollution rules. “On failing to meet the norms, police could file a case under section 182 of IPC and other Act against the defaulter for violating norms,” he added.
 
 Incidentally, the state authorities have ordered removal of loudspeakers or other sound generating equipment from religious or public places if permission for the same was not been sought.   authorities and police officials have been asked to verify the status of permission, whether sought by organisations, trusts or managers at religious places or public places and take action accordingly.
 
