NAGPUR: DK Gayen, Railway Board member (staff), on Thursday said the   had kicked off massive drive to fill up 1.10 lakh posts for which 2.4 crore applications had been received. The drive is said to be biggest recruitment process in the world.

 These posts include assistant loco pilots, technicians, sub-inspectors, constables, trackmen, gangmen, switchmen, cabinmen, welder, helpers and porters.
 
 Gayen was on his maiden visit to Nagpur to attend the state-level 63rd ‘Railway Week’ function organized by the Central Railway, held in city for the first time. General manager  , DRM   and DRMs, principal and sectional heads of all the departments across   were present.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Gayen said, “It was a tough exercise but will be completed in fair and transparent manner. It will boost workability of the railways, employment generation and also government’s Skill India Mission.”
 
 He added that for ensuring time-bound redressal of railway employees’ issues related to dues, entitlements and grievances an employees’ charter had been launched. Gayen lauded the Central Railway for all-round development and achieving 61.5 MT freight target besides ferrying 48 million passengers. “Nagpur is the nerve centre of Indian Railways and its performance certainly impacts the entire organization,” he added.
 
 Earlier, Sharma listed out achievements of Central Railway and said 2017-18 recorded the best performance in all sectors. Central Railway completed installation of LED lights at 432 stations and offices, closed 61 level crossing gates, and Wi-Fi at 30 stations.
 
 “We also saved Rs700 crore in power bills by adopting green energy initiatives. There have been some sectors like safety, security, punctuality and speed where we need to concentrate more,” he added.
 
 On the occasion, 116 outstanding officials and employees were awarded by Gayen and Sharma. Besides, 21 shields were awarded to various departments. The best performing divisions were given shields. The coveted ‘GM’s Overall Efficiency Shield’ was bagged by Nagpur Division. The shield is awarded for good performance in all sectors. The division also bagged the safety shield. Shields titled safety, engineering, mechanical, work efficiency and best garden were awarded to nagpur division. 
 
 
