NAVI MUMBAI: A   has accused legislative assembly speaker   of facilitating encroachment and   inside restricted forest area in Aurangabad. However, the   from   in   has denied his involvement in the encroachment.

 Aurangabad forest officials recently registered a preliminary offence report (POR) against two persons for building a water tank, a temple and an arch in the Lohagad Nandra region of the forest. Nashik-based activist   told TOI: “I have been writing to forest officers about this encroachment, which could not have been possible without the funding and support of the local MLA. In fact, on the water tank, it is mentioned that it was built with the support of Bagade.” Chief conservator of forests at Aurangabad P K Mahajan said: “We have registered the POR under section 26 of the Indian Forest Act against two persons, including one Vasudev M Tarte, for illegally building structures inside the forest. However, the MLA’s name is not in the POR.”
 
 When TOI contacted Bagade, he said: “I have not given any fund to build inside the forest at Lohagad Nandra, which comes under my constituency. In the forest complaint, my name is not there; so how can anyone allege that I am involved in it? Some villagers may have carried out this construction.”
 
 But Chhajed claimed: “If the forest authority or the collectorate conducts a basic inquiry, it will become clear as to who funded these illegal structures. So, a proper inquiry should be conducted and it should not be limited to just two persons. Otherwise, I will take legal recourse.”
 
 A Navi Mumbai activist Anarjit Chauhan commented: “It is sad that we continue to lose massive chunks of forest land. Since 1972, Maharashtra has lost up to 22 lakh hectares of forest land.''
 
 Chhajed recalled that in 2006, the then state forest minister Surupsingh Naik and principal secretary Ashok Khot were sentenced to one month’s imprisonment by the Supreme Court for granting permission to saw mills in forest in breach of its order.
 
 
