NOIDA: The   has fined nearly 130 people for using the plastic material since Monday following the re-launch of the anti-polythene drive. While 55 violators were penalised on the first day, 75 people were fined on Tuesday across the city. The Authority also confiscated more than 55 kg of plastic from various vendors in the city on Tuesday.

 “A penalty of Rs 5,000 is in the offing for anyone found using a plastic carrybag of 40 microns and below thickness. Repeat offenders will have to deal with stricter   or even be banned from conducting any commercial business,” said  , who heads the sanitation department of Noida.
 
 On November 18, Allahabad High Court had directed the state government to issue a notification for a complete ban on the sale of polythene across the state by December 31, 2015, in view of its negative impact on peoples health as well as the environment. The polythene ban prohibits manufacturing, importing, purchasing and storage of all kinds of plastic carry bags. According to the ban, no shopkeeper, wholesaler or retailer can use, store or purchase plastic bags.
 
 Following the directive, the Noida Authority had on December 14, 2015, approved a draft ‘New Okhla industrial development authority (NOIDA) non-bio-degradable garbage/polythene control bye-laws-2015’. However, even after two years, this draft is still awaiting a gazette notification from the Uttar Pradesh government.
 
 R K Mishra, additional CEO (ACEO) of the Noida Authority, told TOI they would strictly enforce the ban in compliance with the high court’s directive. 
 
 “Ten teams across all work circles of Noida along with the district administration and police officials are conducting checks across the city and penalising people for using plastic. No one will be spared. We’ve directed market associations to use cloth bags. We’ve held detailed discussions with representatives of several market associations in Noida and sensitised them about the ban and our need to implement it. We have started fining those who violate the rule since January 15 and will continue to do so,” he said.
 
 To ensure strict implementation, Mishra further said they had simultaneously started undertaking awareness campaigns and training staff involved in enforcing the ban. 
 
 “Our main targets are open markets and small vendors,” Mishra said. “We’re also educating public about the hazards of using polythene and its dangers to health and environment,” he said. 
 
 “We have also involved pollution control officials and the district administration to support the ban and help in its implementation through making public announcements. Police officials have also been sensitised about the ill-effects of polythene and the necessity to curb it,” he added. “Training for our health contractors is also being provided on the segregation and disposal of polythene,” Mishra further explained. “We are considering using the waste material in the repair of roads for using its disposal gainfully.”
 
 
