KOLKATA: A fatal accident at Sovabazar Street, which claimed a 20-year-old biker, turned the   area into a war zone late on Sunday night with locals — who blamed illegal parking for the mishap — and police getting involved in a pitched battle.

 Around 500 protestors first blocked the road. When the cops tried to lift the blockade, the locals brick-batted cops, assaulted them and even threw tube lights and glass shards at the men in uniform. The clashes spread to RG Kar Hospital when traffic sergeants tried to rush the victim — Surojit Saha, a resident of Ukilpara on K K Sur Street — for medical aid.
 
 In all, 17 vehicles were damaged as cops from four police stations and the reserve force had to lathicharge to bring the situation under control. At least two cops — additional OC (Jorabagan) Rajib Sahoo and constable Arpan Ghosh — were injured in the clash. Till late Monday evening, two — Prabir Maity (50) and Ricky Shaw (25) — were arrested.
 
 According to Amitabha Guha, a witness to the accident, helmet-less Saha came racing from the Ghat towards Sovabazar on his bike. “He came face-to-face with a truck bearing an Andhra number plate and tried to take a sharp left. The truck was very slow. However, with parked vehicles blocking his way, he went underneath the truck,” said Guha.
 
 Three sergeants from Jorabagan traffic guard — Jiten Chakraborty, Sunny Saha and Parimal Mukherjee — reached the spot first. Even as Chakraborty hailed a taxi and tried to take Saha to hospital, locals assaulted him. At the hospital, around 100 protestors gheraoed the three. 
 
 Back at the accident spot, locals blocked the road and demanded the parked cars be removed. This led to a tussle but cops managed to calm them down. However, things turned worse 20 minutes later, when family members and friends of the victim returned with the news of Saha’s death.
 
 “We came under attack. Reinforcements arrived from Girish Park and Bathtala police stations and we lathicharged to bring the situation under control. DC (North)   arrived at the spot with a huge force,” said an officer. Jorabagan police later lodged separate cases of rioting and accidental death but claimed that the parking space was a legal one approved by  . “The parking is KMC-approved. We never allow parking on both flanks. We have temporarily removed parking on the road to protect the vehicles as around 17 of them were targeted last night,” claimed a Jorabagan traffic guard official.
 
 The locals though stuck to their claim. “Each night, commercial vehicles line up on both flanks. We have complained several times to police but we were never taken seriously,” said Ratan Saha, a local. The cops on Monday placed a no-parking board on the road.
 
 
