NEW DELHI:   broke their home jinx against   as they registered a comfortable 15-run victory over the visitors at the Punjab Cricket Association IS Bindra Stadium in Mohali on Thursday. It was the hosts' first win against the Sunrisers in five meetings in Mohali.

 
 
 
 KXIP though remained at third in the   standings with six points from four games. They are tied on points with the top two teams - Kolkata Knight Riders and Sunrisers.
 
 
 
 
 
 It was the first defeat for Sunrisers this season as they managed to score 178/4 after   (104 not out) powered the home side to 193/3. Skipper   (54) and Manish Pandey (57 not out) scored half-centuries but they failed to keep the team's unbeaten streak intact.
 
 
 
 
 
 The run chase started off on a disastrous note as they lost in-form Shikhar Dhawan in the fifth ball to injury. Barinder Sran's delivery hit the left-hander on the elbow and he had to leave the field. And in the next over, Mohit Sharma clean bowled Wriddhiman Saha, who missed trying to play it across the line, as SRH were reduced to 14/1 in 1.5 overs. 
 
 Yusuf Pathan (19 off 13 balls), who was dropped on 5 by Yuvraj Singh, became Mohit's second wicket in the fifth over.
 
 After that Pandey and Williamson revived the run chase though they found it tough to score the boundaries freely, specially against young spinner Mujeeb Ur Rahman (0/27) and pacers Andrew Tye (2/23) and Sran (0/22).
 
 Williamson and Pandey added a valuable 76 runs for the third wicket in 9.2 overs. But Williamson failed to stay till the end as he mistimed Tye's delivery in the 15th over to be caught by Aaron Finch at long-off. Williamson scored 54 off 41 balls with the help of two sixes and three fours. 
 
 The chase was virtually over by then as SRH needed 81 more off 34 balls. Two overs later, Tye dismissed Deepak Hooda (5). 
 
 When Manish Pandey reached his fifty off 37 balls in the penultimate over, the equation was a stiff 40 off 10 balls for the visitors.
 
 Riding on Gayle's unbeaten 104, first hundred of the season, KXIP set 194-run target for Sunrisers. Gayle struck a 63-ball 104, laced with 11 sixes and a four to set the jam-packed stadium on fire.
 
 Opting to bat, Punjab started on a cautious note as openers KL Rahul (18) and Gayle stitched a 53-run partnership for the opening wicket.
 
 Afghan leg-spinner   drew first blood for Hyderabad, dismissing Rahul in the eighth over. Medium pacer Siddarth Kaul provided another jolt to the hosts, packing back Mayank Agarwal (18) in the 11th over.
 
 Gayle was then joined by Karun Nair (31 off 21 balls) and the duo shared a 85-run partnership for the third wicket, taking Punjab past the 150-run mark. Gayle brought up his sixth IPL ton in just 58 deliveries, with a drive to point off Kaul and thereafter unleashing his trademark 'Baby in the arms' celebration.
 
 Pacer Bhuvaneshwar Kumar got rid-off Nair in the 18th over but Gayle continued to hammer every Hyderabad bowler.
 
 Australian Finch's 14 not out off 6 balls in the final moments propelled Punjab to a massive total even as Gayle remained a spectator at the other end.
 
 For Hyderabad, Bhuvneshwar, Rashid and Kaul bagged one wicket apiece.
 
 
 
 
