CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum directed  , Chandigarh, to pay Rs 5,000 for charging Rs 800 from the complainant for delivering a debit card which had got stuck in an ATM kiosk. They were also told to issue the debit card free of cost.

  resident Rajesh Kumar stated in his complaint that while withdrawing cash from an ATM in Phase 5, Mohali, on August 9, 2017, the malfunctioning machine withheld his card without dispensing cash.
 
 Thereafter, Kumar kept visiting the Mohali and Chandigarh based branches of HDFC Bank to get his card back. However, the same was lost by the latter.
 
 Kumar was assured his card would be delivered on the desired address within 7 business days. But, on August 17, 2017, the bank demanded Rs 800 from him for issuing a new card, for which he did not agree.
 
 Notice of the complaint was sent to the bank authorities seeking their version of the case. Pursuant to the notice issued, advocate Sunil Narang appeared on behalf of the bank and the case was adjourned for filing their reply and evidence.
 
 However, despite availing several opportunities, the bank failed to file reply and evidence. Their defense was ordered to be struck off on March 21, 2018.
 
 The forum observed that HDFC Bank got ample opportunity to file the reply and evidence or to settle the matter.
 
 “We are of the concerted opinion that the bank being the service provider was duty bound to issue the new card within a fixed time frame, keeping in view that the complainant must have faced tremendous mental agony and harassment in the absence of the disputed card,” the forum held.
 
 “So far as the question of charging Rs 800 for issuance of the new card is concerned, even that fact could not be clarified by the HDFC Bank by appearing before the bench. As it is apparent that there was no fault on the part of the complainant and the card was stuck in the machine due to some malfunctioning, it is established beyond all reasonable doubts that the complaint is genuine,” the forum added.
 
 Thus, finding a deficiency in service on the part of the  , the forum asked the former to issue an ATM card free of cost to Kumar and pay up Rs 2,500 as compensation for the unfair trade practice and harassment caused along with Rs 2,500 as litigation expenses.
 
 
