HYDERABAD: Travelling along Cyberabad's arterial roads have become a nightmare for commuters, thanks to the multiple 'congestion zones' that the city's swanky IT corridor is ridden with. While authorities, in an attempt to address this concern, did remove some bottlenecks from these stretches recently, vehicular movement has failed to smoothen in most places. Reason is never-ending civic works in this belt.

 Apart from GHMC and water board activities, work on Strategic Road Development Plan and   rail are also on in Cyberabad area. As a result, commuters at forced to spend anywhere between 15 to 30 minutes, on an average, waiting impatiently in traffic snarls.
 
 Some of the dreadful traffic congestion points are:   station underpass,   flyover, Uppal junction, Cyber Towers junction, Hafeezpet flyover area, Gajularammam crossroads, Hafeezpet flyover and Y junction at Balanagar.
 
 
  
 
 "Three weeks ago, I was travelling from Kukatpally to   airport during the evening and got stuck first near the housing board on Hi-Tec City main road, and then at Gachibowli flyover - one of the worst traffic areas in the city. Though I had accounted for a 30-minute delay, I still missed my flight. It took me more than half an hour, just to cross Gachibowli flyover," said an exasperated B  , echoing the sentiments of many others who complain of missing appointments, trains/flights or turning up late at work because of this acute traffic problem plaguing 'modern' Hyderabad.
 
 With many covering distances of over 15 kms - from various parts of the city - to reach their offices, commuters say they are forced to leave hours before log-in time, to avoid delays. Among them is Lalit Montra, a techie working in Hi-Tec City, who said that he leaves home an hour and half before office time. "Though I take the ORR, which cuts down on commute time, I get caught in snarls between Hi-Tec City and Biodiversity Park. Even Gachibowli flyover is a menace. Evenings between 8-9pm are worse," he said.
 
 Apart from narrow carriageways and high density of vehicles, presence of multiple malls/shops in Cyberabad area, has further compounded the problem, say traffic personnel. "Many commercial complexes either do not have parking facilities or use parking area for other utilities. Congestion is largely due to these apart from ongoing works by various agencies. Wherever there are bottlenecks we are requesting municipal authorities to acquire land. We have a problem near Botanical Gardens which is being worked out, notices have been given to land owners. Also traffic police is pursing with GHMC to give occupancy certificate to commercial complexes only if they show proper parking area and not turn it into utility areas," said assistant commissioner of police (traffic), Madhapur zone, S Jayaram.
 
 
