NEW DELHI: “This was a tragic case of the killing of a 20-year-old by the Uttarakhand Police in a fake encounter,” said the Delhi   on Tuesday, while   the   awarded to   for killing a 22-year-old MBA student in a   in Dehradun in 2009. 

 The court, however, set aside the conviction and the life term given to 10 suspended policemen. “A fake encounter is a form of extra judicial killing which has no place in a legal system governed by the rule of law. It is a manifestation of the impunity with which armed forces, including police, are prone to act in utter disregard of the rule of law,” observed Justice S Muralidhar and Justice I S Mehta.
 
 The court went on to say that for the police fake encounters symbolise cynicism with which the police view the efficacy of the criminal justice system. In court’s view, the police, in this perception, are not just the accusers, but the prosecutor, the judge and the executioner. 
 
 In June 2014, a CBI court had convicted 18 Uttarakhand policemen in the case after holding them guilty of involvement in the conspiracy to kidnap and kill Ghaziabad resident Ranbir Singh, who went to Dehradun to take up a job on July 3, 2009.
 
 Confirming the punishment to the seven accused — inspector Santosh Jaiswal, sub-inspectors Gopal Dutt Bhatt, Rajesh Bisht, Neeraj Kumar, Nitin Chauhan, Chandra Mohan and constable Ajeet Singh — the court said the case was a result of the lawlessness by the police force which was not a new phenomenon.
 
 For the court it was “yet another case” that underscores the urgent need for a robust scheme of protection to witnesses and victims. The HC stated that though the Law Commission of India gave its recommendations in that regard more than adecade ago, little had been done for implementation.
 
 The others who were tried and awarded life term but received the HC reprieve are Satbir Singh, Sunil Saini, Chander Pal, Saurabh Nautiyal, Nagendra Nath, Vikas Chandra Baluni, Sanjay Rawat, Mohan Singh Rana, Inder Bhan Singh and Manoj Kumar. In addition, Jaspal Singh Gosain — who was the head operator at city control room and charged with manipulating the entries and falsifying the records in order to help the other co-accused — was also acquitted.
 
 Following a public outcry and the media describing it as a “fake encounter” in addition to the deceased’s family not being satisfied with the progress in the case, the famly approached the chief minister of Uttarakhand. Consequently, the Uttarakhand government on July 5, 2009, transferred the investigation to the CB-CID. However, with continued agitations, the government handed over the investigation to the CBI on July 8, 2009. 
 
 
