AHMEDABAD: In a land where water is scarce, it seems inevitable that a source of the precious liquid is a life-saver. And the place from which water can be attained becomes revered. That’s exactly what seems to have happened in stepwells across  , many of which have seen idols of deities installed and actively worshipped.

 
 It certainly seems to have been the case in  , which lies on the well-travelled road connecting Rajkot to important coastal towns like  . 
 
  In the heart of the town lies the Minal vav, named after its patron-builder Minaldevi, mother of the   ruler   (reign 1092-1142). Dated by local historians to the beginning of the 12th century, the vav is now less a source of water and more a shrine. The place is filled with Hindu icons many of which have faded with time but whatever is left is adequate to give a glimpse of just how a well became a place of faith.
 
 A flight of steps leads down into the dilapidated vav. On either side of the first pavilion tower are niches with the remains of idols in both. The idols, embedded into the wall, are eroded and fading. There is a fading icon of Sheshasayi Vishnu, sometimes erroneously interpreted as a representation of Minaldevi. This Vishnu, sometimes embellished with cloth in a niche coated in saffron, is the central figure of the stepwell-shrine. Another striking icon is a set of five celestial figures, their faces faded, each with a creature at his feet. Many of the niches have contemporary idols placed next to the fading ones.
 
 If one spends some time at the Minal vav, the reason behind how it became a shrine becomes apparent. For centuries, the vav has been the congregation point for women of the town. In an earlier era, they came together to collect water. Today, despite having piped water in their houses, they come together to worship at the shrine. 
 
 Anyone would imagine that the water of the stepwell – the vav’s raison d'être – would be well-maintained in so revered a place. Unfortunately, that’s not quite the case. The well-shaft has become a dumping ground for debris and waste material. When a visitor walks past the sacred niches of the vav towards the shaft, the whiff of a nasty smell becomes pronounced. Not quite what one would expect inside a shrine. But this is the sad fate of our stepwells, even if they wear the garb of shrines. 
 
 
