When India gained independence, the Federal Court, succeeded by the   on January 26, 1950, had two Indian judges — Harilal Jekisondas Kania, who went on to become the first CJI, and S Fazal Ali.

 Just days before Kania was to become the first CJI on January 26, 1950, PM Jawaharlal Nehru had expressed irritation over Kania's comments on making Bashir Ahmed a permanent judge in Madras HC. He asked Sardar Patel whether Kania should become the CJI given his 'unjudicial comments' on Ahmed. Patel told Kania that failure to make Ahmed a permanent judge would be regarded as communal.
 
 Patel told Nehru that he had 'managed Kania' on the Ahmed issue and the PM must understand that it was a common trait "with some heads of the judiciary who feel that they have the sole monopoly of upholding its independence".
 
 What Patel would have said now is difficult to imagine, when sitting and retired  , politicians, judicial activists and journalists have taken on the task of protecting the judiciary's independence.
 
 Till 1970, appointment of   judges was a sedate affair. Neither the people nor politicians bothered who became a judge, and how. Things changed dramatically in 1973, when the Indira Gandhi government superseded three judges to make Justice A N Ray the CJI. Appointment of SC judges became stormy affairs with instantaneous outpouring of nationwide outrage.
 
 Before his retirement, bench led by Justice A N Ray in 1976 created outrage by upholding the government's decision to suspend all fundamental rights, including right to life, during Emergency. A bigger public outrage followed when the government wreaked vengeance by superseding Justice H R Khanna, the lone judge who refused to consign fundamental rights to the embers of Emergency.
 
 From 1970 till the advent of a seven-judge bench decision in the S P Gupta case in 1981, the first of three decisions in what is known as 'Judges Case' which together altered the Constitution-mandated judges' appointment process through judicial interpretations, the government appointed 'committed judges'.
 
 Y V Chandrachud, CJI from 1978 till 1985, towards the end of his tenure began publicly expressing his frustration with the judge-selection process. In 1983, he said the process was 'outmoded' and deserved a 'decent burial' as appointments were 'not purely based on merit'.
 
 After retirement, he spoke about his experience in appointment of judges, "Mrs Gandhi never overruled me, but the government has got every weapon in its hands, so the vacancies are kept unfilled. The government tries artful persuasion, drops hints, and keeps egging you. No one is interested in having a good judiciary. No one is interested in having good judges."
 
 The present imbroglio over the Centre's decision to seek reconsideration of the recommendation to appoint Justice K M Joseph as an SC judge is a deja vu moment. Given Justice Chandrachud's disappointment and continued executive interference, the SC gave two more rulings, in 1993 and 1998, establishing a   of SC judges headed by the CJI for selection of judges to the SC and HCs.
 
 It is debatable whether the collegium improved the quality of judges or broad-based the zone of consideration. But the tug-of-war between the government and judiciary continued over appointment of judges. Parliamentarians thought collegium system was outmoded and gave it a burial by enacting the National Judicial Appointments Commission (NJAC) Act in 2014.
 
 Lawyers' bodies and several individuals challenged its constitutionality, terming the enactment a brazen invasion of judicial independence. A five-judge bench in 2015 quashed NJAC and revived collegium system. But the SC acknowledged that collegium system was opaque and selected judges arbitrarily. Despite the judgment, the collegium continues to function as before. The tug-of-war continues between the judiciary and the executive over appointments.
 
 Interestingly, Justice J Chelameswar gave the lone dissenting judgment in the NJAC case and castigated the collegium system. One of the finest SC judges — Justice Ruma Pal — was quoted in the NJAC judgment as saying that some appointments to constitutional courts were done following the 'you scratch my back, I scratch yours' principle.
 
 Justice Kurian Joseph agreed that malaise had crept into collegium system. The bad apples, churned out by the collegium, had the potential to ruin the reputation of judiciary, he said and laid the blame at the door of the executive for keeping silent and giving up its say when wrong appointments were recommended by the collegium.
 
 In the NJAC judgment, Justice Kurian Joseph said, "There is no healthy system in practice. No doubt, the fault is not wholly of the collegium. The active silence of the executive in not preventing such unworthy appointments was actually one of the major problems.
 
 "The second and third Judges Case had provided effective tools in the hands of the executive to prevent such aberrations. Whether 'joint venture', as observed by Justice Chelameswar, or not, the executive seldom effectively used those tools. Therefore, the collegium system needs to be improved requiring a 'glasnost' and a 'perestroika'."
 
 The 'glasnost' and 'perestroika' are still in the realm of conjecture. The executive seems to be taking a leaf out of Justice Kurian Joseph's judgment to play an active role in appointment of judges to the SC, starting with Justice K M Joseph's. But the Centre appears to have chosen the wrong recommendation to shed its 'active silence'.
 
 With all and sundry, who hailed or castigated judgments depending on its acceptability to them, building immense pressure daily on the collegium, it is most likely that Justice K M Joseph's name will be reiterated in its coming meeting. It has no other option. The government also appears to have lost interest in carrying on the fight for reforms in the collegium.
 
 Appointment of Justice K M Joseph as an SC judge has brightened. But the manner in which the collegium operates with pulls and pressures within, coupled with those exerted by political and judicial activists, the prospect of reforms in judges' appointment remains a distant dream.
 
 
