BENGALURU: Amid high drama unfolding outside over government formation, the   constituency, where the polls have been deferred to May 28, is quietly gearing up for the D-Day with parties their campaign.

 The   deferred   after nearly 10,000 electoral photo identity cards (EPIC) were found in a flat in Jalahalli on May 9 and criminal charges were framed against sitting MLA and Congress candidate  . While police investigating the case were expected to arrest him, Muniratna obtained anticipatory bail and is now busy in electioneering.
 
 "I am unfazed by these developments. I know people of my constituency have understood the conspiracy hatched against me and they will support me," he said.
 
 He reasoned that most of the EPICs found belonged to Muslim and Dalit voters from the slums of RR Nagar who are perceived to be suppporters of Congress. "The argument is that the EPICs were collected to prevent the voters from voting. But why would I collect them when the voters are expected to vote for me? It is a conspiracy to bring disrepute to me and thereby preventing me from winning the elections," he said.
 
 Much water, albeit sewage, has flown in the   adjoining the constituency ever since the scandal came into the open. Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) have forged an alliance to form the government, while RR Nagar is witnessing a triangular fight among Congress, JD(S) and BJP.
 
 G H Ramachandra from JD(S) and P Muniraju Gowda from BJP are campaigning in earnest. Ramachandra said any decision on his contest will have to be taken by the party.
 
 “I think the Congress-JD(S) alliance will not have any bearing on RR Nagar polls as there is no scope for changing the candidates at this stage. The fight is inevitable,” said N Rajkumar, a local Congress leader.
 
 “The criminal case filed against the Congress candidate is one aspect of the trouble brewing for him. People will see through the opportunistic Congress and JD(S) which have forged an alliance only to grab power. We are sure they will support BJP,” a BJP leader said.
 
 Observers pointed out that the RR Nagar outcome would be significant given that it is a hung assembly and even one MLA could make a huge difference.
 
 
