MOHALI: Cheap electricity holds the key to making Punjab an industrial hub of north India, chief minister Captain   has said at TOI event ‘Mohali: The Next Big IT Hub’.

 Terming the challenge to provide cheap electricity as a major one, Amarinder said high power rates had been a hurdle. “Earlier we were very expensive (electricity providers) and it forced a large number of industrial units to shut operations,” he said. “Unless we give industry uninterrupted and  , it will be difficult to attract new investors to the state.”
 
 Cheap electricity to manufacturing units was one of the election promises of Amarinder’s party, the  , in the Punjab assembly polls of 2017. Almost nine months after coming to power, his government issued an order on January 11 to lower the electricity tariff to Rs 5 a unit. The state electricity department will bear the cost of Rs-748-crore power subsidy to the industry for the financial year 2017-18. “Power will cost even below Rs 5 per unit to the units working at night,” the CM claimed. He said that the prevailing rates of power could be reduced still further.
 
 The chief minister has already accepted power ministry’s recommendation to pay subsidy to the medium and large-supply power users with variable cost of Rs 5 kilovolt ampere hours (KVAH), excluding the fuel cost adjustment (FCA) surcharge. The CM also has approved the recommendation for no change in fixed cost as announced by   (Punjab State Electricity Regulatory Commission) with effect from January 1 and not for the entire year. The total subsidy comes out to be Rs 398 crore.
 
 With the Punjab government looking to create a favorable environment for industry, Chandigarh-based industrialists, who often complaint of unfriendly business environment and stringent rules, have locked horns with the   over high cost of electricity. The industrial power tariff in Chandigarh is higher that the charges in Punjab, which industrialists claim has blunted their competitive edge. An industrial unit in the city shells out about Rs 10 per unit, including other charges, whereas a unit of power in Punjab costs around Rs 6.50. The power cost gap will widen further, since the Punjab government has announced to supply power to the industry for a flat rate of Rs 5 per unit for the next five years.
 
 In Chandigarh, Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission ( ) has fixed a tariff of Rs 5.35 per unit for medium and Rs 5.65 per unit for large-supply units, on which the electricity department charges fixed charges of Rs 100 per KW, electricity duty of 11 paise per unit, and fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) between Rs 1 and 2.50 per unit. The FPPCA charges, levied on all the category of consumers except agriculture, are revised every quarter, resulting in heavy variation in the electricity bills.
 
 
 
 Due to stricter norms, unfriendly environment, high rentals, and greater power tariff in Chandigarh, the local industry is moving to Mohali. In the last one year, more than 100 unitsof printing and manufacturing sector mainly—have shifted to Mohali from the Industrial Area in Chandigarh.
 
