GURUGRAM:  , a private school in Palam Vihar, has struck the names of 19 students off the   over unpaid  , taking the tally of students it has taken such action against to 39. The school authorities sent notices to parents this week, stating that their wards would not be reinstated until all pending dues were cleared.

 Mukesh Kumar, whose children are studying in classes VI and IV, said, “I sent my children to the school on Thursday, but they were sent back home within half an hour. The school is also refusing to issue transfer certificates. I went to the district education officer’s (DEO) office, but didn’t get a positive response,” he said.
 
 “I received a notice on February 20, saying my children’s names had been struck off. My children are sitting at home now,” said Harish Chawla, whose kids study in classes XII and VII in nthe school.
 
 DPSG principal Deepika Sharma told TOI that parents send their children to the school despite receiving notices. “Notices were sent to parents who have not paid the fee yet. The rumour that the school will not let the children clear their exams if they don’t pay fees is rubbish. If any parent wants the child to continue studying in the school, they need to clear the dues, and we’ll reinstate the kids.”
 
 She added, “We had sent notices to the parents of 20 kids on February 15, and we have sent 19 letters now. The parents of around 100 more students haven’t paid the fees yet, while parents of four students have apologised and paid the fees. I have extended the deadline to February 28 for paying fees. CBSE by-laws state that all dues must be cleared before the issuance of transfer certificates. I am not going to send more notices.”
 
 A team from the child welfare committee (CWC) visited DPSG on February 8 to investigate the allegation of school authorities forcing students to sit on the floor of a classroom on January 25 over non-payment of fees. 
 
 “I have submitted the required documents to the CWC and haven’t received a report from them on the matter. On February 8, their counsellors selected kids at random and spoke with them. My staff was not involved,” the principal said.
 
 Meanwhile, Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) said it would take action only after receiving the report. HSCPCR member BK Goel said, “Seven parents had filed a complaint with HSCPCR on the January 25 incident. I have requested the district administration to send us a report on the matter. Action will be taken after we receive the report.”
 
