THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Welcoming the high court verdict,   ( ) said that the doubts raised on the company and its land have been clarified and put to rest once and for all. At the same time, UDF and the   criticized the government for the setback in the case on Wednesday.

 Vice-president (legal) of the company V Venugopal said in a statement that the court’s division bench has upheld HML’s contentions and set aside the special officer’s order. The special officer had directed resumption of HML’s land on the erroneous assumption that they are illegally-held government land falling under Kerala Land Conservancy (KLC) Act. The high court has rightly found that the findings and inferences in the order, misinterpreting the provisions of KLC Act, the Indian Independence Act and Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, are legally unsustainable, the statement said.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the government deliberately paved way for HML to win the case by not handling the case properly in court and not producing documents on time. It is alarming that   government is wilfully losing cases in court continuously. After giving up 7,000 acres in Ponthanpuzha, it has given up 38,000 acres held by HML. There is huge corruption in giving up such cases, he said, adding the matter must be probed.
 
 BJP leader V Muraleedharan said government lost the case because of a conspiracy involving law and revenue departments. The case was entrusted to government pleaders who did not have subject knowledge. The current order of the court will reflect in the takeover of Cheruvally estate which is being held by Believers’ Church, he said, adding that government will have to pay the church for using land for the proposed airport.
 
  leader VM Sudheeran said that the government was prejudiced about the case as it did not turn down the opinion of the law secretary that the report of the special officer is unconstitutional. He said that government should approach the   without fail.
 
 
