When you work in a field that is very closely associated to showbiz, chances are that you will be attracted to it and aspire for your moment in the spotlight. For  , better known as  , cinema was a very organic progression from her chosen career. While films are not the ultimate goal for this young mom, she is, most definitely attracted to strong characters, one of which,   says, she got to play in the upcoming thriller, 6ne  . Like her earlier films, Aatagaara and  , this one too is a multi-starrer.
“I am only on my third film with 6ne Maili and all that I looked for was the importance of my character in the narrative. I am drawn to strong women characters and I got to play one such in this film. In fact, the role has me in two distinctive shades, the most prominent being in the second half. 6ne Maili follows the story of two groups that head out to trek in a certain place and I am part of one group,” Nethra explains.
 The fact that her role is quite meaty apart, Nethra adds that there were a few other elements that drove her to take up this film. “Right after my stint on the third season of Kannada Bigg Boss, I got several film offers, but most of them lacked a novelty factor. My prerogative in taking up films is the scope of the character I get to play. When director   contacted me about 6ne Maili, I was busy with personal stuff and wasn’t sure I could do it. But he persisted, saying that he envisioned only me in the role. In fact, the team waited for months to get me onboard. See Ni’s narration was another big clincher. Normally, filmmakers give you a one-line description of the story and that’s the end of the conversation. There’s no novelty factor whatsoever. With See Ni, though, I liked the confidence with which he spoke. He was so self-assured about what he wanted to bring to the screen,” she says.
 Her biggest take back from the shooting of the film, though, was that shooting in a forest, cut off from civilization ensured that the team got to bond and have a good time. “We were a big gang on set and would hang out during the day, as we had predominantly night shoots. In a way, the shoot of 6ne Maili was like a holiday,” says Nethra.
 
