NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that   and   have not been given due credit in the Twenty20 format, and that the pair’s ability to open the innings and bat in the middle order sets them apart as vital cog’s in India’s T20I plans. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Rahul, 26, is three runs short of this season’s leading run-getter Sanju Samson, with 236 from six innings at a strike-rate of 180.15, and with Chris Gayle has made Kings XI Punjab the heaviest scorers inside the batting Powerplay. Rayudu, who has played 184 career T20s, has so far scored 201 runs in five innings for Chennai Super Kings at a strike-rate of 160.80, which is easily the fastest for his new franchise. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Watching the pair bat in  , Srikkanth felt that the pair had not gotten its due. 
 
 “What connects these two stroke players is that both of them have not got their due, despite being stellar with the bat,” he wrote in today’s Times of India. “If the current edition of the IPL is any indication, then India might have just unearthed two men to fill in two important slots: opening and number four. These two get the job done as effectively as anyone else.”
 
 Rahul, who in 2016 became the third Indian to score international centuries in all three formats and last year was India’s third-highest run-getter in T20Is with 279 at a strike-rate of 140.90, was in January purchased by   for a whopping Rs 11 crore. He has opened the innings so far in IPL 11, striking the ball fiercely while displaying a range of strokes. 
 
 In KXIP’s first game of the season, Rahul smashed a fifty in just 14 balls to beat the previous IPL record by one ball, and later stated that it felt good to break T20 records after being “branded a Test cricket for years”. This, according to Srikkanth, was fuel for the talented wicketkeeper-batsman to showcase his abilities in all formats. 
 
 “The fierce determination in Rahul is unmistakable. Having got a raw deal as far as white ball cricket goes, the youngster wants to prove a point that he is the best in the business with a game cut for all three formats. Remember he has also been shunted up and down the order, and credit to Kings XI for making him bat at his favourite position. The manner in which he set up the first game against Delhi and his easy ways at the crease have played a massive role in putting his team where they are at the moment,” he wrote. 
 
 Of the 32-year-old Rayudu, who this year found a new IPL franchise after ten seasons with Mumbai Indians, Srikkanth felt that his batting could be the differentiator for a franchise with flashy hitters. After scoring 22, 39, 49 and 12 opening the innings, Rayudu dropped down to No 4 in CSK’s last match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on a tricky surface and smacked 79 off 37 balls even as Suresh Raina batted his way to 54 not out off 43 balls. 
 
 “Rayudu has put his hand up for Chennai every time. Taken out of his comfort zone and told to open, he responded positively. The knock he played against Hyderabad on a slightly slow track against possibly the best bowling combination in the IPL speaks volumes of what he is capable off,” wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs.
 
 “This just goes to show how much hinges on Rayudu. The one-match brilliance of some of his team-mates might have pushed Rayudu back on the popularity charts, but he brings in consistency.”
 
 
