KOLKATA: A truck loaded with mustard oil, rice and flour sacks keeled over while trying to manoeuvre a narrow gap between two police guardrails on   on Thursday night. Four persons in the vehicle, two of them on the loading deck, were injured when they were thrown off. The spilled oil turned the road slippery, forcing traffic to be suspended for more than three hours.

 The incident happened around 10pm when the truck was heading towards a Kidderpore market from the   area.
 
 In order to check vehicles from over speeding — especially at night when there are fewer policemen on the road — Kolkata Police places guardrails with wheels next to each other, but not parallel. Vehicles have to slow down and turn cautiously to pass through the gap without hitting the structures.
 
 “This particular truck, however, was speeding and while attempting to turn through the small gap between the guardrails — about 10m — the driver lost control and the truck fell on its left,” said an officer of Maidan police station.
 
 Police took the four injured persons —  , 40, Debasish Pattanaik, 42, Biswanath  , 42, and driver  , 50 — to SSKM Hospital with injuries on the head, limbs and face.
 
 But none was critically hurt and were discharged on Friday, an officer said.
 
 When the truck fell, tins carrying mustard oil leaked and spilled over on the road. The oil mixed with diesel and engine oil trickling from the vehicle and turned the area into a mess and many rescuers slipped while trying to help the victims.
 
 “The area had become so slippery, that it was impossible for vehicles to ply on the road. A crane was brought in, but even that could not operate because of the road surface was too oily,” said the officer.
 
 The cops then suspended traffic on that portion of the road. They sprayed water on the road and then sprinkled sand on the road surface to reduce the grease. Finally, after over three hours, cops managed to pull up the truck and tow it away. Normal traffic movement along the road started only after the surface was declared fit for vehicular movement.
 
