PANAJI:   and   FC played a draw for the first time in 10 matches but, like in most matches, there was a winner.
 
  Chennaiyin FC coach John Gregory was politically correct during the post-match media interaction, praising Goa’s magical duo of   and  . “I wish they were playing for us,” he told reporters, but inside the away dressing room, he would have personally patted each of his player on the back.
  
  This was a draw with 90 minutes still left to be played in the second leg semifinal at home but nobody was left in any doubt that this tasted as good as a win for the visitors. A precious away goal gives them a healthy advantage and then there is their defence to bank upon. Chennaiyin FC conceded three goals in the first 40 minutes against FC Goa in their opening battle this season, and then shut out Goa for 210 minutes until Lanzarote scored an opportunistic goal.
  
  “We had clear one-on-one opportunities and to be fair to (Laxmikant)  , he made some very good saves and his team should thank him very much for the saves that he made. He certainly kept the tie alive right up till we managed to get a goal,” said Gregory.
  
  The away goal which Goa conceded – again Gregory Nelson allowed so much space to make that run – puts them at a disadvantage. But if it’s any consolation, Goa can take heart from the fact that they scored three when they last visited Chennai and have won three of their four matches they have played there.
  
  “We are a team who normally score a lot of goals and why can’t we do it there? My confidence is maximum. I think we have a lot of possibilities to be in the final and we have to do things very well in the next game,’’ said Goa coach Sergio Lobera.
  
  Goa had plenty of possession; 63 percent to be precise, but Chennaiyin rarely looked troubled. The former champions had more shots on target too and like Gregory pointed out, they should have walked away with a 3-0 victory.
  
  Lobera will take nothing of that. His belief in this team is unshakeable and he knows they can still turn it around.
  
  “We have to prepare well, recover the players as quickly as possible and go there and try to win,’’ said Lobera.
  
  QUOTE
  
  To be be fair to (Laxmikant) Kattimani, he made some very good saves and FC Goa should thank him very much for the saves that he made
  
  John Gregory, Chennaiyin FC coach
