India-born Dutch Olympic skater   has finally made the “emotional” journey to India, a trip of a lifetime which is not just about finding her biological parents, but also about “connecting” with her birthplace, Mumbai.

 It has taken Das and her twin sister 32 years to visit India. The two sisters were just eight months old when they were adopted by a Dutch couple. 
 
 “It is something we had to do. Our parents (back in the Netherlands) wanted us to do this when we reached the right age ...We finally decided that this would be the two of us with a friend from the Netherlands (also adopted from Mumbai) who knows our city well,” said Das, who represented the Netherlands in the  . “To be honest, it (to be here) is emotionally overwhelming. I had first thought about coming to India a couple of years ago, but my sister got pregnant and then I got busy with my preparation for the Winter Olympics. So, now was the time and we were ready for it.”
 
 She has been here for a week but has not been able to make much headway in tracing her biological parents. “So far, we have not been able to get a lot of information (from hospitals and orphanages) and I see it will take sometime to put the dots together,” she says, revealing very little about the search. 
 
 Her sister, who is married and has two children, has gone back to the Netherlands, but she is here for another week and vows “she will keep coming back until she finds them”. 
 
 And as long she is around, she wants to make the most of her time exploring the city. “There are two parts of this journey. One is about looking for my parents and other is getting to know my city, the place where I was born. We knew very little about India before coming here. We had just heard from friends who visited India, watched some Hindi movies and ate Indian food.” 
 
 “I will never forget the first smell of India when we landed, it was like sweet smell in the air. We really liked it...there is so much colour here. The people here look more like us (she and her sister) than in Holland, which is funny but understandable. The people have been really friendly,” she says.
 
 She is loving Indian food, Indian beer besides the mangoes and watermelons. “You got mangoes in every corner of the city. I am loving it.” 
 
 Das is heading back to the Netherlands soon. 
 
 “I will be back until I find my biological parents. Financially, I have to figure things out,” she adds. agencies
 
 
