PUNE: In the past 10 years, he has never celebrated the New Year’s Eve with his family. Every December 31, he has stood guard keeping the city’s streets safe. However, on the first day of the new year, the police constable usually made it up to his family. But not this year.

 Four days into the new year, the constable hasn’t been able to make time for his family. He has been working non-stop since the morning of December 31, thanks to the unrest in the city sparked by the violence in  . “On the morning of December 31, we reported to duty at 9 am. We had a small lunch break, but were back on the job again at 3 pm and continued until 5 am the next day,” said the constable.
 
 Sometimes the job demands greater sacrifices.   Ravindra   has dealt with personal losses while performing bandobast duties in the past. “My mother passed away while I was handling bandobast duty in Solapur. My father died when I was on duty in Mumbai. People don’t understand that we too have a personal life,” said Rasal. Two days ago, one of his relatives died, but he is unable to pay his last respects. “My wife was travelling alone to   in the midst of all this tension. Even while handling tension in the city, I kept calling to check on her, as the protesters always target the buses first,” said Rasal.
 
  
  
 
  in the police force face their share of problems. A woman constable said she and her husband, who too is in the police force, have been deployed in different areas since December 31. “We have a young child, but in the last four days, I have hardly seen him,” she said. Talking about the other problems, she said, “We usually use the toilets in the nearby hotels or other establishments. However, during a bandh, all hotels are closed and we have no access to toilets. Women constables, who are having their menstrual cycles, too are forced to stand or walk all day.”
 
 Officials said high blood pressure, diabetes and digestion-related diseases are very common among the police personnel. The stressful job, odd hours and irregular eating pattern are to be blamed.
 
 Sanjay Baviskar, the deputy commissioner of police (special branch), said the families of the police personnel suffer the most. “My wife never asks me when I will return home. I never remembered which classes my children were in. I often don’t remember birthdays or other significant days. Even without any training, our wives and children adapt to our lifestyle. They are our biggest strength,” said Baviskar.
 
 Why do policemen still draw so much flak then? A senior official says: “Nobody likes to be told to follow rules. Unlike the other forces, police interact with the general public, and that creates disputes. Lastly, there are bad apples in all systems, but our bad apples are more visible. Therefore, we get a collective bad name despite the fact that because of the police presence, we all feel safe.”
 
 
