PATNA:   MPS, Union ministers and a large number of party workers observed a daylong fast on Thursday across the state to protest the recent washout of the budget session of Parliament

 “For us, the Parliament is the temple of democracy. However,   has been causing disruptions and not allowing it to function properly; even during the budget session. We, along with our party leaders observed a daylong fast to protest that,’’ said Motihari BJP MP and Union minister for agriculture and farmers welfare Radha Mohan Singh in Motihari. BJP district president Rajendra Gupta said all the eight MLAs along with party workers have staged a dharna and observed fast in their respective constituencies.
 
 In Bagaha, West Champaran BJP MP Sanjay Jaiswal, Valmikinagar MP Satish Dubey, Nautan MLA Narayan Prasad, Chanpatia MLA Prakash Rai, BJP national vice president and former cabinet minister Renu Devi, BJP district unit president Ganga Prasad Pandey and other party workers sat on a daylong dharna and observed community fast at the gate of Bettiah collectorate.
 
 Union state minister and Nawada BJP MP Giriraj Singh also observed fast with several party leaders and workers at the gate of Nawada collectorate. Giriraj termed the disruption of Parliament proceedings as ‘murder’ of democracy and democratic traditions. The Union minister, who was accompanied by BJP MLAs Aruna Devi, Anil Singh, district BJP president   and a large number of party workers, ridiculed Congress leaders for making a mockery of fasting.
 
 BJP MPs from Madhubani and Jhanjharpur Hukumdeo Narain Yadav and Birendra Chaudhary, too were on fast in protest against the logjam by Congress and other parties in the recently concluded session of Parliament. Large number of party functionaries and supporters were also present at both the places.
 
 Leaders of the Bhojpur unit of the BJP also observed a daylong fast on Thursday in front of the Krishi Bhawan and the DM’s office at Ara . 
 
 The ‘Maha Mantri’ and a very active member of the Bhojpur unit of the BJP , Dheerendra Kumar Singh alias ‘Dheeran Ji’ told TOI that five former MLAs of the Bhojpur district , two executive council members of the state BJP , the office bearers of the Bhojpur unit of the BJP and hundreds of party workers took part in the BJP’s day-long hunger strike on Thursday to protest against the disruption of the just-concluded the second part of Parliament’s budget session by the opposition parties . Former Barhara MLA and minister of the Bihar government , Raghvendra Pratap Singh , former deputy speaker of the Bihar legislative assembly cum Ara MLA , Amrendra Pratap Singh , former Sahar MLA , Sanjay Singh Tiger , former Jagdishpur MLA , Bhai Dinesh and former Agiyaon MLA , Shivesh Kumar took part in the day-long fast . Besides them , the executive council members of the Bihar unit of the BJP , Kaushal Vidyarthi and Harendra Pandey , the Bhojpur BJP president , Mithilesh Kushwaha , the Maha Mantri , Dheerendra Kumar Singh , the Vice- presidents of the local unit ,   and Prahlad Rai and other office bearers of the party also observed a day –long fast in protest against the disruption of the parliament by the opposition parties . Speaker after speaker criticized the opposition parties for stalling important legislative business of the parliament due to their alleged disruptive and divisive politics .
 
 Aurangabad: Local BJP leaders including MP Sushil Kumar Singh observed fast on Thursday at   against disruption in Parliament. MP blamed Congress party for the washout of the recent Budget session of Parliament. He said Congress knew very well that they cannot debate in any of the House so they did not let the Parliament function. Senior BJP leaders Krishnwallabh Singh Babua ji, Ashwini Singh, Vinay Sharma also attended the protest.
 
 
