GREATER NOIDA: Vehicles of the   district magistrate and other senior officials are still sporting crash guards despite the Centre issuing a directive that the accessories be removed as they pose safety hazards.

 Following the Centre’s decision to ban crash guards in December last year, the Uttar Pradesh had issued a notice earlier this month saying vehicles sporting the metal bars would be fined Rs 1,000 for the first offence and Rs 2,000 for every second violation.
 
 Most of the administrative officials told this correspondent they had heard about the new rule and would soon remove the crash guards. The guards are fixed to the front of a vehicle to protect it from damage. But the government has said the accessories render a vehicle’s in-built safety features useless. 
 
 When TOI visited the collectorate office, it found crash guards installed on the official vehicles of the DM, district supply officer, district treasury officer and the joint commissioner, sales tax.
 
 Many officials said they had heard about the new directive banning the guards but were ignorant about the implementation.
 
 The official Innova of district magistrate BN   (UP32BG6860) has a   on the rear while district supply officer RN Yadav’s Bolero (UP16G0663) has it in the front. The Bolero used by district treasury officer Ashok Kumar sports a bull bar in the front and the Sumo Gold (UP16G0830) of joint commissioner, sales tax, Dharamveer Singh has installed the accessory at the back.
 
 “The news (of banning crash guards) has been doing the rounds and the DM’s war room (a WhatsApp group for circulation of information about administrative activities) has been sending messages about it. We will have to remove it,”   said.
 
 Treasury officer Ashok Kumar said he had not been using the car sporting the metal bar of late. “It might be parked on the office premises but it is not being used. The bull bars will be removed soon,” he said.
 
 Dharamveer Singh said he had installed only a bike guard to protect the vehicle from motorcycles. “It will be removed in a day or two,” he said.
 
 Private vehicles, however, seem to be at the receiving end of the administration. The transport department on Monday fined three vehicles sporting crash guards when they came to seek fresh fitness certificates.
 
 Arunendra  , ARTO (administration), said they had received a letter from the transport commissioner about the new guidelines and would soon send a missive to the officials.
 
 Pandey, however, said the officials should have taken off the guards by now.
 
 SP (traffic) Anil Jha declined comment when asked if his department had received any directive to fine government vehicles.
 
 In addition to imposing fines, the UP transport commissioner had asked all regional transport officers to convene a meeting of traders dealing in crash guards and discourage them from selling the accessories. The meeting is yet to be held.
 
 While banning the guards, the Centre had quoted the Motor Vehicles Act of 1988 that doesn’t allow any alteration to vehicles. 
 
 
