Leaning Unleashing a charm offensive on the youth of the state, particularly first time voters in the upcoming assembly elections, chief minister   on Friday announced a slew of unexpected freebies for students. He proposed free bus passes for students across   and announced free PU, degree and PG education in government institutions for women.

 During the assembly elections in 2013, Karantaka’s 4.4-crore electorate had 36 lakh first-time voters. Though the state election authorities are yet to prepare a final voters’ list, the number of first-time voters is expected to touch 53 lakh this time.
 
  
  
 
 
 The proposal to provide free higher education to women will cost the state exchequer Rs 95 crore and will be borne by the government. It will benefit 3.7 lakh women students in the state, the CM said in his budget speech.
 
 The move has been welcomed by the higher education sector in the state. An estimated 60% of the students in the state’s 412 government degree colleges and half of the students of 140 PG centres are women, experts pointed out and hoped that the free education proposal would help increase the number of women opting for higher studies and ensure they completed their studies.
 
 Free bus passes will cost the government an additional Rs 356 crore to the government which will benefit 19.6 lakh students. At present, 50% of the bus pass fare is provided by the government, 25% by   ad 25% by the student.
 
 SR Umashankar, managing director of KSRTC, said the 25% contribution of students will be added to the government’s share, while KSRTC would continue to pay 25% of the total fare of the pass.
 
 The state government announced an outlay of Rs 4,514 crore towards higher education and Rs 22,350 crore for primary and secondary education.
 
 The primary education department’s ambitious   project also found a mention in the CM’s budget speech with 100 such schools being readied this year onwards.
 
 Education minister   had highlighted that these schools would put an end to students having to change schools after classes 5, 8 and 10. The schools would have classes from 1 to 12 on a single campus.
 
