TUTICORIN: Tense moments prevailed at   village here on Thursday as a group of protesters demanding the closure of the Sterlite copper plant attacked the buses carrying families of the company’s employees to the district collectorate. Four people including a woman and two children were injured when miscreants threw stones at the windscreen of a bus. 

 The employees and their families were to petition the collector seeking government intervention to resume functioning of the plant on the outskirts of the city. Strong protests since February 12 seeking its closure and denial of licence by the   for the functioning of the smelter unit had affected the plant’s functioning. On Thursday, close to 5,000 people comprising the plant’s employees, their families and contract workers assembled at the entrance of the plant and staged a demonstration at which they made an appeal to the public not to believe the allegations and rumours against the plant.
 
 Following the protest, a few families – including women and children – headed to the collectorate to petition the collector in this regard. As the company’s buses with the families reached Madaththur (one of the villages where the anti-Sterlite protests are held) on the   - Madurai national highway, the vehicles were stopped by some anti-Sterlite protesters. They threw stones on the vehicles and attacked them from the sides. They also took away the keys from one of the vehicles. 
 
 The protesters left only after   police reached the spot and asked them to disperse. Based on a complaint lodged by those in the bus, the police registered a case against the assaulters. The families then walked to the collectorate, and claimed in the petition that around 20,000 people were directly and indirectly employed by the copper producer in Tuticorin and that the accommodation provided to the staff was only 200 metres from the plant. Despite this proximity to the plant, they had not suffered any ailments as claimed by the protesters to be the impact of pollution by the plant, they added. The employees and families also claimed that vested interests funded by foreign agencies were behind the protests. 
 
 
