MOTIHARI: Stage is set for ‘Chalo Champaran Campaign’ – a part of the Swachch Bharat Mission – to be held at Gandhi Maidan here on Tuesday. Prime Minister Narendra   will address around 20,000 swachhagrahis (ambassadors of cleanliness movement) from across the country, including 10,000 from Bihar.

 The PM will also meet DMs of 13 districts in the state, which have not achieved satisfactory target under Swachh Bharat Mission of the central government.
 
 State chief secretary Anjani Kumar Singh had assured the PM through a video conference on March 13 that 45% of the total geographical area in the state was covered under the sanitation mission and it would be raised to 50% by the time he arrived at Motihari.
 
 Sources said the 13 districts identified to have shown unsatisfactory progress in the sanitation mission have been termed as ‘inspirational districts’. “The PM will discuss the issues related to implementation of Swachh Bharat Mission and achievement of the desired targets with the DMs of 13 districts on Tuesday,” a senior state government official said.
 
 Officials were burning the midnight oil in making last minute preparations at the venue for the programme. East Champaran DM Raman Kumar said the PM’s helicopter from Patna airport would land at a helipad near Gandhi Maidan here around 11am. He will leave the venue at 2pm.
 
 Before addressing swachhagrahis, the PM is scheduled to garland the statue of Mahatama Gandhi at Gandhi Udyan.
 
 Altogether 10 gates have been erected at the venue for the visitors. A massive tent city, equipped with state-of-the-art facilities for the 20,0000 swachhagrahis, has also been developed near the sprawling Motihari aerodrome. Sources said 5,000 swachhagrahis are already in the district, moving in villages to make people aware about sanitation and danger of open defecation.
 
 A makeshift operation theatre and ICU have also been installed at Gandhi Maidan to deal with any eventuality.
 
 State governor Satya Pal Malik, Union ministers Uma Bharti, S S Ahluwalia and Griraj Singh, CM Nitish Kumar, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and state minister Shravan Kumar will also participate in the event. 
 
 
