LUCKNOW: A day after the   ended, the government started work of reviewing all the   that were signed during the past two days. The   said that 1,045 MoUs with a total worth of Rs 4.28 lakh crore were signed over the two days of the summit.

 “The MoUs are being sorted out department wise and we will prioritise the work that needs to be done. This will be done over the weekend and I will review the progress on Monday or Tuesday,” said industrial development minister  .
 
 UPSIDC has earmarked Rs 100 crore to be spent on improving infrastructure across 30 industrial areas over the next six months. UPSIDC MD Ranvir Prasad said that he would be inspecting these industrial areas and determine the extent of work required to improve the facilities in these areas. “Out of these Rs 100 crore, about Rs 7-8 crore is for Sikandrabad itself for which we have received several proposals during the summit. I started reviewing industrial areas from Friday itself. Work in these 30 or so areas will be taken up on priority. We will set up special purpose vehicles for each of these areas and sign MoUs with each industrial area for their maintenance,” he said.
 
 The industrial areas identified under the special 30 include Fatehpur, where units to provide auxiliary products for the Modern Coach Factory are likely to be set up, Jagdishpur, Bareilly, Muzaffarpur etc.
 
 Prasad said that another Rs 350 crore will be sought from the centre for sprucing up industrial areas. “For instance, we are facing a problem with the drainage in Amausi after the construction of the road there. We are seeking funds for similar projects,” he said.
 
 Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner, Anup Chandra Pandey, said that he had started phase-II of the investors’ programme. “We have already started the process for putting together an implementation mechanism. I met with my team on Friday and discussed how to proceed with converting these MoUs into actual work.
 
 Meanwhile, principal secretary, khadi and village industries board, Navneet Sehgal said that he would be leaving for Chandigarh over the weekend to study the ‘Invest Punjab’ model and assess how best UP could monitor the implementation of its over 1,000 MoUs. “We will also be putting up a proposal before the government to remodel the Udyog Bandhu so that it can better implement and monitor projects on ground,” he said.
 
 
