AURANGABAD: The proposed water reservation for non-irrigation needs in   district and its implications on water supply for   district and parts of   was discussed in the state legislative assembly. 

 Also, a section of opposition leaders alleging conspiracy of stealing water meant for the region. Highlighting that if the proposal in qeustion is passed, it would further aggravate the water crisis being faced by Vaijapur and   talukas of Aurangabad district, NCP MLC   and party MLA Amarsinh Pandit demanded scrapping of the proposal. 
 
 Around 30% reservation is proposed in water stored in Darna group of dams in upstream areas of   major irrigation project. The group includes Mukne, Bhavli, Waki and Bham dams.
 
 Raising the issue, Chavan said, "The proposed reservation would in turn lower the capacity of Nandur Madhameshwar Express canal by nearly 129 MCUM. Such a drop in capacity would deprive nearly 14,000 hectare of agricultural land from Vaijapur and Gangapur talukas, which are prone to water scarcity."
 
 Claiming that non-irrigation water needs for Nashik district would continue to soar gradually to 280 MCUM by 2031 and upto 400 MCUM by 2041, Chavan stressed that it would be unjust on the part of the State Water Resources Department (WRD) to snatch share of water meant for drought-prone Marathwada. 
 
 In his official reply, Maharashtra minister of state for water resources, Vijay Shivtare said, "Godavari Marathwada Irrigation Development Corporation (GMIDC) was considering the proposal in question." He insisted that the GMIDC was responsible for equitable water distribution for non-irrigation needs in all areas. 
 
 The alleged illegal holding and release of water from dams located in upstream areas of Jayakwadi in Nashik and Ahmednagar districts for irrigation needs of local agriculture during monsoon and other seasons was also raised by opposition leaders during the debate. 
 
 Notably, a large group of activists and experts have already threatened that they would go on hunger strike to protest proposed water reservation in upstream dams of Jayakwadi dam in Nashik district. 
 
 
