NAGPUR: Residents of Prabhag 21 in East Nagpur assembly constituency have been complaining in vain about contaminated and low pressure water since the last eight months. Finally on Friday, independent corporator Abha Pande led a delegation of residents to protest in front of municipal commissioner   and demand immediate relief.

 Some residential areas in Lalganj, Jhade Chowk, Telipura, Dayaram Wastad Akhade, Itwari Mirchi Bazar, Khairpura, Bharat Wadi, Prem Nagar, Shanti Nagar, and APF Quarter have been receiving contaminated water since eight months. They were also getting water at very low pressure. The residents were disappointed with the lack of response from municipal corporation to their complaints.
 
 Around 800 affected residents from these localities led by independent corporator Abha Pande met municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal over the grave situation on Friday.
 
 They complained that   has been supplying water for only an hour. Many residents also said that in the first half-hour, the water is very dirty and foul smelling. Some residents had also approached local corporators with their complaints. On being informed, Pande visited the localities and found the tap water was contaminated and smelt bad.
 
 Pande said residents of these localities had already filed a complaint with Orange City Water — the firm entrusted to supply 24X7 water, about eight months ago. “But the residents are yet to get a response from any OCW official,” claimed Pande. 
 
 This part of the city has three elevated storage reservoirs and despite this residents are getting inadequate water, she informed Mudgal. Pande also pointed out that OCW has failed to restore many roads where it had carried out digging works, and these have become accident prone spots.
 
 After hearing these problems, Mudgal directed OCW officials to attend to the complaints on priority. 
 
 Meanwhile, the pipeline supplying water from Totladoh dam to Nagpur has developed a crack near Ghogli village, which has affected water supply to the city. Mayor   on Friday visited Ghogli and directed NMC officials to repair the leak immediately. The officials began plugging the leak soon after the mayor left the spot.
 
 
