KANNUR: Almost 12 years after of Popular Front of India (PFI) activist Muhammad Fazal was killed in Thalassery, the case is creating a headache for the  . Former DSP K Radhakrishnan, who was the investigating officer in the murder case, alleged that the then home minister, Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, had asked him to stop the probe. 

 
 On October 22, 2006 Fazal was murdered after he left CPM and joined  , which later became PFI. Though the CPM had blamed RSS for the murder, even the PFI had denied the charges. The charges raised by Radhakrishnan might once again open a can of worms for CPM. 
 
 Radhakrishnan claimed that Balakrishnan directly asked him to stop the investigation and it was handed over to crime branch, when he probed the role of Karayi Chandrasekharan in this murder. He alleged there was an attempt on his life and he had to undergo treatment for nearly one-and-a-half years. He said the death of two key witnesses in the case - Valsaraja Kurup and Panchara Shijil - was suspicious and hinted at a conspiracy.
 
 Earlier, police claimed that RSS worker Subeesh E, who was arrested in connection with the murder of CPM worker K Mohanan at Valankichal on October 2016, had confessed that the RSS had a hand in the killing. Later, he refuted the policed claim and moved national human rights commission (NHRC) alleging that police had tortured him to give a false statement.
 
 Though Fazal's brother had supported CPM's claim implicating the RSS, his wife refuted this and moved the high court seeking a   probe. Then the CBI took over the case and arrested CPM leaders Karayi Rajan and Karayi Chandrasekharan and at this time, Subeesh gave his statement. Now, Radhakrishnan's view is likely to put the CPM on the defensive. Now, the   wants a national agency to investigate the deaths of Kurup and Shijil. 
 
 Meanwhile,   president M M Hassan said that the CBI should probe the disclosures made by the former officer. "It is a serious allegation that Balakrishnan asked the officer to stop inquiry, when the probe zeroed in on CPM leaders. Though Balakrishnan denied the charges, it should be investigated by CBI along with the ongoing investigation to unravel the truth," he said. 
 
