CHANDIGARH: One more case of rape was reported in Haryana as violence against women in the state showed no signs of abating on Friday. With the latest rape reported in Palwal, the total number of cases reported in the last one week have gone up to 9.

 Besides the rape, a case of attempt to rape was reported in Sirsa and another case of blackmailing of a minor girl was reported in Dharamgarh village of Panipat district.
 
 In Palwal district, sevenyear-old daughter of labourer working in a dairy farm in Dudhola village was allegedly raped by a man known to her family. The rape was reported to the police on Wednesday night and the accused has been arrested under the POCSO Act.
 
 In Sirsa, a case of attempt to rape a young woman was reported on Thursday. Initially, a case of kidnapping was registered, but the charges of rape were included based on the statement made by the survivor.
 
 “On Wednesday, the girl had gone missing. But she had returned the same day. Initially, her parents had lodged a complaint of kidnapping by three persons. During counselling and recording of supplementary statement, the girl alleged the rape attempt as well, hence rape charges too were added,’’ said IG crime against women Mamta Singh.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In Panipat district, investigations are in progress and the boy involved in alleged blackmailing has been arrested. The victim, a minor girl, alleged that her first cousin had been blackmailing her by threatening to upload her photographs on social media websites.
 
 After the complaint, the accused was arrested. He had damaged his mobile and the police cyber cell is retrieving data from the phone, Mamta said.
 
 As incidents of crime against women increase, opposition parties continues to target CM   as well as the   government in Haryana. The Khattar government has intensified Operation Durga to make women and girls feel reassured about the presence of police personnel.
 
 Leader of Opposition Abhay Singh Chautala criticized Khattar for his attitude towards rising crime against women. “Instead of taking strict action, he preferred to participate in utsavs across the state,” claimed Chautala.
 
 Haryana Women Congress leader   criticized the BJP leaders and the Haryana DGP for their statements on rising crime against women. “Women raise their voice only after extreme cases. Now after having seen such brutalities, what else are the cops are expecting,” questioned Mehta.
 
 
