RAJKOT:  , a 25-year-old   in the   commissioner office and died couple of hours later at the civil hospital. 

 Hurchand alias Haresh Khemani, a rickshaw driver, reached the commissioner’s office at around 5pm and consumed poison. He reached the police control room and collapsed. Khemani was rushed to the civil hospital where he died during treatment. 
 
 Before taking the drastic step, Khemani had even circulated a video in which he named Dinesh Dangar alias Mama, his son Chirag and their associate Divyesh Kav as being responsible for his death. The father-son duo run a finance company named Shyam Sarafi Mandli in Atika Industrial Zone.
 
 Police arrested Dangar and Chirag and they were booked under various sections of IPC including abetment of suicide and Money Lending Act. 
 
 Khemani, who lived near Millpara main road at Garbi Chowk, had borrowed Rs 11.5 lakh from the accused to buy a house. His 51-year-old father Jagdish, who lodged a complaint, told police that Khemani had repaid the full amount through three cheques. “However, they were asking for Rs 2.8 lakh more as interest and harassing him. On January 8, Dangar, his son and Kav barged into his house and took away Rs 5,000 from him. When Jagdish went to their office, he was also thrashed by the three,” said an investigating officer.
 
 This is not the first instance of borrowers committing suicide or trying to end their lives due to harassment of loan sharks. The police have also launched a dedicated helpline for victims of money lenders.
 
 Police commissioner Anupam Singh Gehlot told TOI, “The Khemanis never came to police earlier. I personally monitor calls on the helpline and allow the victims of money lenders to meet me directly. I have instructed all police inspectors to take immediate action on the phone calls received on the helpline. In 40 cases, people were not able to repay the principal amount and we have asked borrowers to waive off that amount.”
 
 In 2016-2017, a total of 180 cases were lodged against money lenders of which Prevention of Anti-Social Activity was involved in 80 cases. The helpline receives 2-3 calls daily.
 
 
