Ludhiana: The third edition of Usha Deaf India Cricket League 2018 kicked off at Punjab Agriculture University on Tuesday. While more than 150 players and organisers were enthusiastic about the event, a thin attendance of spectators turned out to be a dampener. Some of the players with whom TOI interacted through a mediator attributed the low turnout to the indifference of cricket associations and sports officials towards the event. Some of the organisers even said it was high time when the fund-starved cricket association was affiliated to the BCCI. 

 “This is the third consecutive edition of the   and we are trying our best to make the present scenario for the deaf cricketers more supportive and comfortable so that these players can also enjoy some limelight. Regular attempts have been made to get some support, but it’s still a long way for the players as the association is still not affiliated with the BCCI,” lamented general secretary of the Punjab Cricketing Association of Deaf Padam Passi, while communicating through his son Harpreet Passi, who is a cricket enthusiast.
 
 Organisers and players rued that the lukewarm response was disheartening as most of the players taking part in the event were of national level and have represented the country in the Asian Cricket Championship in Singapore in November last year, organised by of the International Cricket Federation of the Deaf. 
 
 As many as eight teams are taking part in the league, for which players have been selected following trials conducted by the All India Federation of Cricket for Deaf. 
 
 Dilbag Singh (26), a cricketer from the old city, who is part of one of the teams and has represented India in international tournament in Thailand in 2016, said, “Financial condition of deaf cricketers is poor. One of major reasons is that all state or district deaf cricket associations have still not been affiliated to the BCCI, one of richest cricketing bodies in the world.”
 
 Dilbag and Parminder are two cricketers from the city, who are representing two different teams in the ongoing deaf cricket league after getting selected in the trials for players from all over the country.
 
 Amongst eight teams taking part in the league, five have been named after the five rivers of Punjab — Chenab XI, Ravi XI, Beas XI, Jhelum XI, Satluj XI — while the remaining teams are named as Aicad XI, Silent Heroes XI and Deaf Lions XI.
 
 Parminder Singh, another cricketer from city, who is representing Ravi XI team in the league, said lack of professional coaching manual and centres for the deaf was a major hindrance for the aspiring cricketers.
 
 “Deaf cricketers are also a part of the cricketing world. I am sure people would be interested in watching us play as they like to watch the main cricketing events, but it’s primarily lack of awareness and proper publicity which has led to such a low turnout here which is somewhat disheatening,” he rued.
 
 Players also mentioned that neither the sports ministry nor other cricketing bodies have shown interest in supporting the deaf cricketing manual, which was disheartening as the deaf cricketer community was finding it difficult to fulfill the basic needs. 
 
 Results of first day
 
 Satluj XI defeat Beas XI (Venue: PAU, Ludhiana)
 
 Silent Heroes XI defeated AICAD XI (Venue: Government School Ground, PAU)
 
 Chenab XI defeated Ravi XI (Venue: GNE College Ground, Ludhiana)
 
 Deaf Lions XI defeated Jhelum XI (Venue: S. Zora Singh Stadium, Ludhiana)
 
 
