JAIPUR: Difficult times for those susceptible to   from pollen begun in the city with first pollen of   integrifolia has been detected on Friday evening.

 Holoptelea integrifolia is a tree which is commonly known as ‘Bandar ki roti’ tree, ‘chilbil’ tree or ‘chudail roti’ tree, which can be find standing tall in   and alongside the roads of the city. 
 
 Alert for asthma and allergy patients has been sounded after seasons first Holoptelea integrifolia pollen was detected in city's air. “Holoptelea pollens trigger asthma attack and also it is responsible for different respiratory diseases. This is the most allergenic plant pollen of the city,” said Dr  , a respiratory disease expert. 
 
 This pollen remains in high proportions for a duration of one to two months.
 
 However, the concern for health authorities is that the pollen will likely to remain in the city air for longer duration in comparison to past years. “This year and also last year, the pollen was detected a little early. Usually the pollen is detected in last week of February,” she said. 
 
 Burkard pollen counter, a pollen entrapment machine has detected the pollen, which is installed at Asthma Bhawan. 
 
 Besides, health experts claimed that now with the dip in temperature, the proportion of pollens will increase in the air. The concentration of Holoptelea is high in the morning and in the evening. “If you go for a walk in the morning, take precautions. Those having allergy to Holoptelea should cover your nose and mouth properly preventing entry of the pollen inside the respiratory system. Also, asthma patients should also remain alert as the pollen may trigger asthmatic attack,” said Dr  , consultant, medicine of a private hospital. 
 
 Besides, doctors claimed that it is the season of allergies as the number of patients increase during this season which continues to report in increased numbers till March end. “Patients come to us with nasal irritation, burning eyes and rashes which are symptoms of allergies. Nasal allergies are common in this season. The prominent reasons are dust allergy followed by allergy to Holoptelea. In Jaipur, one can find Holoptelea tree easily, which are present in large numbers,” said Dr  , respiratory diseases and allergies expert, Sawai Man Singh Hospital. 
 
 Dr Singh said that people susceptible to allergies should take precautions.
 
