Mysuru: The amount of waste processed by Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) is 500 tonnes, and one of the most onerous tasks performed by the workers of the civic body is segregation of wet and dry waste. Citizens would considerably ease the workload on MCC workers if they took enough care to segregate themselves.

 With the   under way, MCC has decided to install two separate containers for wet and dry waste on all commercial roads, and has undertaken an awareness initiative to educate public about the need to segregate waste and the need to effectively use these  . Having separate containers is one of the criteria listed under the Swachh Bharat Mission.
 
 Although many residents take care to hand over segregated garbage to the pourakarmikas, the trash got mixed up, thereby rendering the exercise defunct. The MCC tried addressing the problem by providing residents different colour bins – blue for dry waste and green for wet waste – however, even this failed to yield desired results.
 
 Even the large containers, painted blue and green and placed on the road have failed to elicit a positive response from the citizens.
 
 MCC health officer DG Nagaraj, who is also nodal officer for Swachh Survekshan, said that, under the new scheme, the containers would be put up on commercial lanes that witness heavy public movement. “The idea is to prevent the public from littering the roads, and raise awareness among them about segregation while at it,” said Nagaraj.
 
 The health officer requested the citizens to use these dustbins accordingly, and aid the MCC in its endeavor. “It will save us time spent on segregation. If public segregate the waste at source, we can directly send trash respectively to the wet and dry waste processing centres,” said Nagaraj.
 
 He added that they had identified as many as 19 commercial thoroughfares in the city, including Sayyaji Rao Road, New Kantharaja Urs Road, Devaraja Urs Road to install these dustbins. “We have installed 110 pairs of these dustbins, each of which has a capacity of 120 litres,” Nagaraj added.
 
 He went on to state that the garbage problem in the city could be solved easily if the public were to cooperate with the civic agency.
 
 
