 
  Over 2,000 furious Goemkars gathered at   in   on Friday to protest the   ( ) and  , which they believe will destroy their villages in the name of urban development.
  Locals from villages such as Benauim, Canacona, Betalbatim, and Colva in the South were present at the protest, along with their Northern counterparts from Candolim, Calangute, Assagao, etc.
  This was the latest (and the largest) protest out of the many that have been conducted in the state over the past year. Locals have repeatedly insisted that the PDA has been forcibly thrust upon them, and that the planning so far has no scientific basis, and ignores the environmental impact it would have on villages.
  Moreover, the protestors added that such a move would also make their villages vulnerable to builders, turning them into a concrete jungle.
  With slogans like ‘Amkam Naka, Amkam Naka, PDA Pida Amkam Naka’; ‘Sobit Amchem Goem, Sundar Amchem Goen, Sobit Sundar Amchem Goem’, ‘Do not destroy or villages forever’, ‘Our constitution, our TCP Act and our regional plan, we will decide’, and ‘All 40 MLAs do your job’, the message was loud and clear.
  “If this keeps going on, and if Goans allow it, there will no longer be a reason for anyone to come to Goa,” said Clesito Fernandes, 21, from Fatorda. He warned, “Goa will lose all its charm, its beauty and its innocence. People come to Goa to relax, enjoy and see the beauty, but if everyone has a home here, what is the point? The green jungles will turn into a concretized jungle. There’ll be no difference left between Goa and Mumbai?”
  “We have been cheated by the our MLAs,” said Marcelina Fernandes, 43 from Colva. “We didn’t elect these ministers to destroy the serenity of our villages! If things continue like this, how will we explain fruits, trees and birds that were once in abundance in Goa to our grandchildren? It will be like showing them images of dinosaurs, and telling them that about how they lived on earth once upon a time.”
  One of the biggest complaints by locals is that the government hasn’t involved them in the planning until now, and how the local panchayats and gram sabhas who should be in charge of such decision-making processes.
  If environmental factors are ignored, many villagers - who are in the process of preserving and transforming their lands - feel their efforts will be wasted. “I am a resident of St Estevam, and next month, we are planning to cultivate around five lakh acres of paddy as a community project. Many locals will be participating. This is a communidade land that hasn’t been cultivated for over 20 years, and we have taken all the required permissions to start work. Now, we are hearing about how that area will be used as a coal-dumping ground instead,” said Nestor Range, an engineer by profession.
  “The prime objective of including PDAs is to undertake vertical development of concretization at the cost of destroying village agriculture economy, and the livelihood of fishing communities and artisans. Though right now the PDA is only a presumption of a few foolhardy politicians, if the PDA does come into existence, the role of the panchayat will be completely diminished and seriously undermined. The PDA will have more powers to decide on crucial matters like building permissions,” said Avertino Miranda, who has been protesting against the issue for a long time now.
  “What will happen to the indigenous tribes of Goa?” asked Durgadas Gaunkar, one of the speakers at the event. “These tribes have kept the farming lands, lakes and ponds of the state alive. They know how to till the land, fertilize the crops, and the various techniques and methods of farming. If these people are removed from their lands, what will remain?”
  “When you call a place a community, it comprises not just the ones who are working in industries, but also those who cultivate the land, besides the fishing communities. And if the land is used to make urban settlements, where are they going to go? They will be forced to give up their traditional jobs and take up newer jobs. There is already a lot of this happening with the influx of industrialization. It is tough to find a toddy tapper or a farmer in Goa now. The lands have gone barren. Now, with the PDA plans, it will take away a major chunk of Goa’s locals’ livelihood and identity,” said Peter Fernandes, businessman.
