BENGALURU: Acity-based businessman was arrested on Saturday for smothering his 29-year-old wife to death nearly a month ago and getting her body burnt in a forest area near Hosur. The victim,  , was working with the HR department of   until December.

 Chandrakanth S Kondli, 38, was arrested along with his accomplice   who burnt the body and misled the cops, for a short while, by travelling with Akshatha’s cellphone to Punjab. Kondli is a co-–partner of Silver Spoon Bar and Restaurant in Shantinagar. The special team probing the case reached the forest area on February 2 and recovered Akshatha’s half-burnt body.
 
 Kondli and Akshatha were married for 10 years and they lived with their four-year-old son in Hebbal-Kempapura’s Vinayaka Layout. Akshatha hailed from Sirsi and Kondli from Karwar. Although she was reported missing since January 6, the bone-chilling crime came to light only on Saturday after the Central Division police arrested the culprits.
 
 
 
 
 Initially, we thought it was the case of a missing person,” DCP (central) Chandragupta said. Kondli told police that Akshatha and he had consumed alcohol on the night of January 6 and a heated argument broke out between them after he accused her of having an extra-marital affair. In a fit of rage, Kondli smothered her with a pillow.
 
 Their son was away that night, with his grandmother who lives in Sahakarnagar.
 
 Realizing that he had killed his wife, Kondli called his bar employee Rajvinder Singh home and directed him to dump the body in some distant place and destroy evidence. They shifted the body to a car hired by Kondli from a rental firm. While Kondli remained at home, Singh took the body to Kamanadoddi forest near Hosur, and burnt it.
 
 Later, they together cooked up a story. Fearing that police would suspect foul play, Kondli handed over Akshatha’s cellphone to Singh and ordered him to go to his hometown in Punjab. The next morning, Kondli told his mother-in-law   that Akshatha had fought with him the previous night and had left the house. Rekha remained quiet, thinking that her daughter would have gone to a friend’s house and would return once she calmed down. But Rekha began to worry when her calls to Akshatha went unanswered.
 
 “The phone rang every time, but it was never answered. I was sure something had gone wrong. When I confronted Kondli, he told me that Akshatha had taken Rs 50,000 from him and could have gone on a tour,” Rekha told police. She lodgedacomplaint on January 23.
 
 DCP Chandragupta said: “A special team started questioning Kondli and they found several contradictions in his replies. Subsequently, Kondli opened up.” Kondli told police that Akshatha’s phone was given to Singh to make everyone believe that she was alive and touring. Police succeeded in bringing Singh back to Bengaluru and arrested him. The duo will be taken into police custody for another round of questioning.
 
