BHOPAL: In a stern warning, Union surface transport and water resources minister Nitin   on Friday said that government would not tolerate corruption in the construction of national highways.

 
 “Contractors would find themselves under the bulldozer instead of metal, if corruption is detected in construction of national highways,” warned Gadkari while addressing a convention of labourers and unorganised workers in Betul.
 
 The Union minister further said construction work should be carried out extensively while ensuring quality. The government has sufficient funds for the development of highway projects.
 
 “There is no paucity of funds in the country, but government would not tolerate corruption in the construction works. The only thing that affects the project is lack of technology and technical know-how, besides efforts to work in the right direction. If overcome, these factors would help the country take a lead," said the minister.
 
 Expressing concern over rising pollution levels in the country, the Union minister said that import of petroleum products is creating environmental hazards and people must be aware of its consequences.
 
 
 
 
 
 Import of petrol-diesel worth over Rs 7 lakh crore is increasing pollution levels in the country. “Every part of the country is affected with environmental problems. We need to pay attention towards this," suggested Gadkari.
 
 Raising the issue of growing farmers' plight across the country, Gadkari said that farmers are in deep trouble. The Union minister who hails from Nagpur in Vidarbha region of Maharashtra which is known for scarcity of water and farmers' plight, said, as a farmer he himself manages four sugar mills that are running under debt.
 
 "If these mills were closed then BJP would lose four Lok Sabha seats in the region," claimed the minister.
 
 The Union minister was accompanied by chief minister   and other party leaders who announced sops for tendu leaf pluckers. He also attacked opposition parties for promoting casteism and said that a person's quality is more important than his caste or religion.
 
 Tall claims to eradicate poverty proved futile, he recalled.
 
 He lauded Prime Minister   Modi-led NDA government and said that works undertaken in the past 4 years were never done in 48 years. The government is also starting piped irrigation to replace it with canal irrigation, he said.   reiterated his commitment to provide financial assistance for building house or patta to all homeless by 2022 under central government's ‘housing for all' scheme.
 
