KOLKATA: The five districts of Jangalmahal —  , Jhargram, Bankura, Birbhum and   — have emerged as a flashpoint of a heated Centrestate debate.

 The immediate reason behind it is the Centre’s decision to slash fund support to these districts from the existing Rs 25 crore to Rs 1 crore on the ground that these underdeveloped districts have undergone all-round development and they are no longer “Left Wing Extremist” (LWE) zones. State chief secretary Moloy De has written to the Centre opposing the fund curtailment.
 
 Chief minister   is also upset with the ways of the Centre when one of the Jangalmahal districts, Birbhum, comes among the five of the 115 LWE-dominated and underdeveloped districts in the country that the Niti Ayog has selected. Prime Minister   wants to engage “prabhari officers” to oversee development in these districts. The state chief secretary has also found fault with the apparent dichotomy in the Centre’s planning process.
 
 If the Centre has its way, all these four districts will cease to become apart of the uniform Integrated Action Plan (IAP) or entitled to the additional central assistance (ACA) for LWE-affected districts.
 
 The Centre-state debate assumed a political dimension on Wednesday with Trinamool MP   training guns on the Centre at a party gathering at Gopiballabhpur in West Midnapore. “The Centre spends Re 1 per capita for the Jangalmahal population. We don’t want this kind of favour. Development in these areas will continue as long as Mamata Banerjee is the CM,” he said. He asked the BJP leaders to come and see the kind of development the state has done for the area. “Mamata stood by the people when men like Dilip Ghosh and Rahul Sinha were nowhere in the scene. They couldn’t come to this place when the Maoists ruled the roost. This government built roads and the bridge in Nayagram,” Banerjee said.
 
 State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh said, “If there are no Maoists in the area as Trinamool is saying, there’s no point putting the LWE tag on these districts.”
 
 
