KOCHI: The ordeal of tedious immigration clearance process of the tourists arriving at   via cruise ships is expected to ease with the ministry of home affairs exempting cruise tourists arriving with evisa from the requirement of biometric enrolment for three years till 2020.

 The passengers of the first cruise Costa Neoclassica that arrived at the port from Mumbai port had reduced clearance time at the port.
 
 “The exemption of tourists with e-visa not having to undergo biometric enrolment procedures at the port, according to the clients helped in a speedier clearance than before,” said  , a tour operator who tourists from the cruise.
 
 Delays in biometric enrolment and verification had been a cause of concern and complaint from the tourists as well as the tour operators as it often led to the reduction of time available to spend on the shore. “Normally, it used to take around 2-3 minutes per passenger to clear the biometric enrolment. In case of any snags or glitches, it would be delayed further. With the exemption, it could be reduced to less than a minute. As opposed to flight passengers, which arrive in a bunch of maximum 350-400 per flight, cruises arrive with passengers numbering from anywhere between 500 – 3,000 according to the capacity of the vessel. The port is equipped with around 25-30 counters for immigration clearance, and the number of passengers per cruise is vastly disproportionate as against the number of counters,”  , traffic manager,   Port said. Cruise passengers and tour operators had long been complaining about the immigration processes which lag and are unfortunately dragged on for hours. The relaxation of biometric verification will be of relief for both the immigration officials as well as for the passengers. “The new system would be beneficial for us as well as for the tourists, without any concern about any security being compromised,”   added.
 
 Meanwhile, despite cruise tourism being one of the most tourismrelated revenue generating spheres for the city, cruise tour operators say that there is an inadequacy in the promotion of cruise tourism by tourism department.
 
 “More proactive measures should be taken by the tourism department to promote the city as a cruise destination, like that of a brochure dedicated to draw more cruises to the port citing the facilities and attractions here,” a tour operator based in Kochi said.
 
 
