 can be broadly divided into theories, diagrams, numericals and graphs. During the last month of preparation for Class XII board exam, students need an effective approach for economics to score maximum marks. Subject expert   of Loyola High School tells TOI’s Faryal Rumi that students should not miss out the important chapters and must prepare theory on the basis of diagrams. Excerpts:

 Q.1. Topics that should be focused on to fetch good score?
 
 In economics, there are two papers — microeconomics and macroeconomics. Both are equally important. In paper 1, the main chapters to fetch good marks are consumer demand, consumer behaviour, utility approach, law of demand and consumer’s equilibrium whereas in macroeconomics, chapters on determination of income and employment, national income and related aggregates and forms of market are very important. Most of the questions come from these chapters. 
 
 Q.2. Other than NCERT, what should be followed to prepare this subject?
 
 As a reference book, students should follow book by  . The technical concepts are explained in detail.
 
 Q.3. What are the important numericals and diagrams?
 
 Diagrams in economics are very important. Almost 90% of the chapters and theories have a diagrammatic explanation. When a student prepares a chapter or a concept, s/he will find a diagrammatic interpretation of that theory. Students should relate the diagram with a chapter and learn accordingly. Students must draw the diagram for questions carrying 4 or 6 marks, even if it is not asked for. It shows how much a student knows about the topic. As far as numericals are concerned, students get a good grip on chapters like demand, supply, national income, determinants of demand and production function.
 
 Q.4. Last minute tips for the examinees …
 
 It is not a subject that can be prepared in just a short span of time. Students should be confident of what they had learned so far. They should not memorize the topics, rather try and understand them. In memorizing, there are greater possibilities that they will mix up the topics. To understand things, students must put the answers in their own words. Even if they are not thorough with the expressions, they can use a broken language. The examiner basically wants to know how much they have understood and how far they are thorough with the concept. Stop relying on memorizing thing.
 
 Q.5. Things that should be kept in mind while writing the paper …
 
 The most important thing is that answer should be to the point. The answer should not be stretched unnecessarily. Depending on the marks that a question carries, the answer should be formulated. Suppose a question is of three marks then students must write three main points related to the topic. Each point should be descriptive and not lengthy. Diagram should be given and important points underlined. Sub-headings should be there.
 
 
