SURAT: While the Indian diamond companies are facing severe cash crunch following banks squeezing loans after the banking fraud perpetrated by   and  , a private financing company of the US plans to launch a new fund for diamond companies, aiming at providing an easier way for them to obtain credit.

 As per the US-based   group Delgatto Diamond Fund, a company floated by diamond industry leader in the US Chris   is looking at financing the diamond industry players in important markets, including the US and India. The company will be infusing $100 million within nine months and the fund’s size increased to $500 million and $1billion depending on demand. 
 
 “The diamond industry is in a major state of flux, with all major commercial banks exiting the space,” creator of Delgatto Diamond Fund   told Rapaport. “There is an unprecedented shortage of working capital among dealers, wholesalers and cutters,” he said.
 
 The venture seeks to address the need for funds in a way that is both sustainable and affordable, explained Del Gatto, who is also the CEO of ‘I Do Now I Don’t,’ a consumer-focused diamond-and-jewellery sales platform. 
 
 According to Del Gatto, getting funds to run diamond business for the companies will be much easier than the banks. The company will not be reviewing the client’s profit-and-loss statement the way financial institutions would do, but instead judge the potential borrowers based on other factors, such as reference from within the industry circles. 
 
 In addition, borrowers will obtain loans using their diamonds as collateral. While the fund will hold the stones, clients will have full access to them at any time. Del Gatto’s service will also include use of his online sales platform — the largest of its kind — enabling clients to market those diamonds to consumers around the world. Using the platform will provide dealers with access not only to capital, but also to consumers rather than just retail jewellers, which he stated will help them increase their profit margin. 
 
 “This is an unprecedented initiative in our industry and we expect that demand will be so great that we can quickly become the largest non-traditional diamond financier globally,” Del Gatto added. 
 
 Diamond industry analyst   said, “The new fund to be launched by the US-based company will help diamond companies a lot. The financing needs will be fulfilled and that they won’t have to wait for banks.”
 
 
