KOLKATA: Over the last fortnight, chill was there but the maximum temperature kept spoiling the party. But there was no looking back on Friday, when the minimum temperature plunged to 11.1°C and the maximum gave Kolkatans a perfect winter feel by staying put at a comfortable 22.2°C. In fact, the slide in mercury was acute enough to make Friday the coldest in last five years.

 And the good news is, the chill could have a further impact with the Met office predicting the mercury to climb down even lower. Thanks to the uninterrupted flow of northwesterly wind that is pushing the temperature down the Celsius scale.
 
 “Friday was the coldest day after 2013 and there is more chill in store as we expect the mercury to dip further during the next two days. The flow of northwesterly wind is quite strong at the moment, making it all the difference,” said GK Das, director ( ) at the Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata.
 
 In 2013, the mercury had plunged to sub-10°C level on January 9, when the city recorded 9°C. But the following years, the mercury refused to dip below 11°C. In fact, the mercury had dipped below 10°C only twice in the past 10 years, the other occasion being on January 12, 2011, when the city shivered at 9.6°C.
 
 On Friday, the minimum temperature was two notches below the normal. The maximum, on the other hand, was 3°C below the normal mark. 
 
 “Climatologically, the city enjoys a good cold spell during first fortnight of January. Currently, there is no weather system that will disrupt the cold spell and hence we expect this condition to persist for now, with the mercury swaying between 11°C and 10°C,” added Das.
 
 Since regions from where the northwesterly blows into the city already under cold wave-like condition, the weathermen are hopeful of a prolonged winter run. The minimum temperature in Patna on Friday was 4.7°C while Ranchi recorded 6.3°C. Delhi and Lucknow, through which the wind system passes, shivered at 7.2°C and 3°C, respectively.
 
 “I love outdoors during the winters. With this chill around, our picnic to a place on the northern fringes of the city on Saturday is going to be great. We have planned a lot of activities during the picnic. The children are going to enjoy the sun,” said Sagarika Pal, a homemaker from Bangur Avenue.
 
 
  
 
 
