Vadodara: A minor boy from Bamangam village in Karjan was booked for rape after a 16-year-old girl delivered baby girl at a health centre in Sankheda taluka of Chhota Udepur on Monday.  The boy and girl had developed relationship when she was staying with her parents at Nana Habipura village of Shinor taluka, according to the complaint lodged by her mother gave the police. However, the girl’s parents were not aware about it.  In July last year, her parents sent the girl to their native village in Sankheda taluka in Chhota Udepur to live with her grandmother as she had moved to class XI and the school in Nana Habipura did not have classes after class VIII. Her parents work as farm labourers at Nana Habipura village. The girl’s mother also told the police that she used to call the girl regularly to ask about her well-being. During one such call, her grandmother law had told her that the girl had stomach pain, but did not reveal much detail. On Monday, the girl’s grandmother inform that she was admitted to a health centre in Jabugam village of Pavi Jetpur taluka in Chhota Udepur. When the girl’s parents reached Jabugam, the girl’s grandmother revealed that on Monday morning she had taken the girl to health centre in their village when she complained of acute stomach pain. At the health centre, the girl delivered a baby girl and later the doctor referred her to health centre in Jabugam. The complainant also told the cops that she and her husband were kept in dark by her mother-in-law about the girl’s pregnancy. When her parents asked her, the girl told them that she was in relationship with the boy from Bamangam since last 18 months during which they got intimate. The girl also told her parents that the boy had asked her not to tell anyone about their relationship. Since the girl was hospitalized and was not in a condition to travel, the complaint was registered at Bodeli police station in Chhota Udepur, which is the nearest one. The police then transferred the complaint to the office of superintendent of police of Vadodara. Until Tuesday evening, the complaint was not lodged in any local police station of Vadodara rural police.