Their films clashed at the box office last Puja. But the biggest talking point of the festive season was the cold war between   and Prosenjit over the former using a cameo clip of Prosenjit in his trailer of Cockpit. Prosenjit had his own release in Yeti Obhijaan and didn’t take too kindly to this. But a lot of water has flowed under Howrah Bridge since then. It’s a new year of fresh beginnings. As the two biggest stars of   come together to release the Times Food and Nightlife Guide this evening, they discuss the future of Bengali cinema during a pre-event shoot at the new TOI new office on EM Bypass. Go on, have a feast!

 
 
 
 Prosenjit: We have no clash. He is a superstar and I’ve been working for 35 years. We always want our films to run. I remember, a few years ago, Chander Pahar was set to release on the same day as my Jaatishwar. I held a meeting with the heads of the two production houses and the box-office clash was avoided. Chander Pahar did better, as on the day of our release, we lost Suchitra Sen. Having said that, some dates are becoming increasingly important and Dev and my films may release on the same day. But if there’s 1% possibility of avoiding a clash, we’ll work on it.
 
 Dev: It’s not only us. I had promised Jeet that I won’t bring out a film on Eid so that he gets a clean date. I feel if we don’t change, then the industry won’t.
 
 P: It’s not that he and I speak every day, but he understands me perfectly well. Puja and Christmas are important dates for films. But I pushed back my Mayurakshi, a very small film, by a week from Christmas last year and it worked. There was no clash and it ran on word-of-mouth publicity. Suppose Dev’s Kabir and Jeet’s Sultan come out on the same date, there won’t be any clash as both have different target audiences. Had both been out-and-out commercial potboilers, bringing them out together could have been an issue. We are two-three heroes here. In Mumbai, Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan and Aamir Khan are considered the biggest, even they don’t clash.
 
 
 
 
 D: My film was not the last one! I always announce my date on the day of the mahurat. So, everyone knew when Cockpit was releasing. But I didn’t know when Amazon Obhijaan, my other planned release, would hit the screens, as this depended on the production house. They held their cards close to their chest and placed them on the table at the last minute.
 
 P: Releasing Amazon Obhijaan on Christmas was perfect. Yes, children watch films during Puja, but there’s something about Christmas that works for such films. Also, single screens are tapped better.
 
 
 
 P: There was a time when Ashok Dhanuka would do the best publicity for films. After him, the one to take it a step ahead was   and his team. Dev took it up from there and showed how well a film can be promoted — with both   and Cockpit.
 
 D: Yes, we had a mid-air music launch…
 
 P: Now, because he did these films, his Amazon Obhijaan was launched at the Mohun Bagan grounds. Raj Kapoor used to say no matter what you are at home — penniless or hungry — when you step out, you are the showman. We are in showbiz and you have to ‘show’.
 
 
 
 P: It was between us brothers and we addressed it.
 
 D: As intelligent people, we handled it intelligently. It’s not that we washed dirty linen in public. As journalists, you want the best out of an interview; similarly, I wanted the best for my film. For him, it was like why he was not told.
 
 P: There was a small communication gap and we bridged it in no time. I didn’t think for a second before giving my nod for the role. Later, when I was upset, I told him and he immediately understood. There was a time when Uttam Kumar and Soumitra Chatterjee were not talking for a brief period. But on Poila Boishakh, at Basusree theatre, both would attend a jalsa. All the veterans were sitting together and Soumitra Chatterjee bent down to offer his pranam to all the elders apart from Uttam Kumar. That’s when the star called out to Soumitra and said, ‘Ami kintu tor dada’. Soumitra Chatterjee burst into tears and all was well. There are issues in every family.
 
 
 
 D: When I go out with my girlfriend or other friends and see films like Padman, Padmavaat, Sultan or Dangal, I want to try out different subjects. I approached not one, but two production houses with Chaamp, but both refused, saying a boxing film can’t do well. So, I took the risk and did it myself. In Dhumketu, I play an octogenarian. It’s a threeyear-old film and everyone has seen my look. See, my objective is not to make a Bengali film per se. The language can be Bengali, but the film has to be global. Cockpit was not a Bengali film, 80% of it was in English, but I wanted to inspire, help the industry grow. Nahole amra chhoto hoyei morey jabo.
 
 
 
 
 P: We all told him. Rane (producer Nispal Singh) played an important part. Rajinikanth’s 2.0 or Robot 2 was supposed to come and we were worried. We could either bring the film on Poila Boishakh or push it back. But then Robot 2 got pushed back and we decided we could spread out the releases. Also, there are a few holidays and that helps.
 
 D: Yes, May 1 is a holiday… See, it will open a new window. If my film works, then only will I be able to make more films.
 
 P: Be it Dev, Prosenjit, Shibu or Srijit, if there’s one hit, there will be 10 films. If there are 10 films, we’ll get work. Else, we’ll have to sit at home. This morning Kaushik was telling me the lineup of films this year is great and if the audience still doesn’t watch them, we will have to fall at their feet next!
 I am producing a film, Uranchandi, on a small-budget. It has Sudiptaa (Chakraborty) in the lead and is directed by her husband, Abhishek Saha. The only thing I could offer the team is a good DoP in Soumik Halder. Else, the cast has Indrani Dutta’s daughter, Rajnandini, Chitra Sen and Chaiti’s (Ghoshal) son, Amartya Ray. After that, I am producing Mahalya that has Jisshu (U Sengupta) in the lead. Can’t I act in these? These films will be in a safer zone if I do so, but I want to experiment as well. Dev too is soon going to announce a film, which is very different. I want to support different kinds of cinema. Why did Aamir work in Secret Superstar? He wanted to give it a push. New directors will also have to enter the market. Sahaj Pather Gappo, which had a small release, finally made it big with everyone watching it. So, good content will find support.
 
 
 
 D: I became a producer after the experience I gathered from Dhumketu. As a producer, you need total control. Giving full respect to the makers, I felt I could have done a lot for Dhumketu. I had plans to promote it more than I did for Chaamp and Cockpit, but that was not to be. We keep meeting even now. First he (the producer) told me we’ll be partners, then he said he can’t give me the intellectual property right, soon things became ugly.
 
