BENGALURU: Raju P (name changed), 23, a final-year medical student, never dreamt of becoming a doctor. After falling into bad company, he had taken to peddling drugs and washing cars. He evaded arrest but was picked up four years ago by volunteers of Abhyudaya, an NGO, which, with parental support, put him on the path to rehabilitation. 

 He was tutored under the first batch of Jnanagiri, a free coaching programme for   students from economically weaker sections in south Bengaluru. “Becoming a doctor is much more than what I’d ever expected in life,” says Raju.
 
 Jnanagiri’s approach to the task is holistic: besides coaching students, care is taken to ensure they are protected from any kind of distraction. Parents are counselled, given a charter of 13 dos and don’ts and made to give an undertaking that they will abide by it. Parents commit themselves not to distract children at home by watching TV, not give them two-wheelers and mobile phones, not burden them with work and attend teachers’ meeting regularly, among other things.
 
 “The dos and don’ts were listed by our volunteers who had observed during counselling of students and parents that these were distractions for students,” says D Laxminarayan, an electrical engineer and executive team member of Abhyudaya.
 
 The volunteers follow up on how parents are living up to the undertaking they give. “Taking an undertaking from us while providing coaching binds us to our commitments. After all, it is about providing a better future for our children,” a parent said.
 
 Jnanagiri’s approach has yielded rich dividends. Three hundred Jnanagiri students took the SSLC exam last year. While 28 scored above 90%, 142 bagged distinction. Coaching classes are now being conducted at 70 centres in Konanakunte, Puttenahalli, Jambusawari Dinne and Hakki Pikki Colony, off Bannerghatta Road. 
 
 “Our students’ achievements give us the power to reach out to more who want to study but cannot afford coaching. Most volunteers here are top executives but are committed to bringing about social change. Many homemakers living nearby have also volunteered to teach after seeing what our students have achieved,” said Paneendra Kumar B L, a power system engineer.
 
 Along with SSLC students Abhyudaya provides scholarships to over 500 students every year under the Vidyanidhi programme and distributes stationery kits among those who can’t afford them.
 
 
 
 
 Jnanagiri is a free 110-day special coaching programme for SSLC students who are selected after counselling and taking their background into consideration. Most are children of drivers, factory workers, domestic helps and construction workers and a few have been in conflict with law sometime.
 
 The classes are held for one-and-a-half hours for five days a week and three hours on Saturday in mathematics, science and language. On Sundays, eminent individuals, including scientists, doctors, police officers, army officers, corporate honchos, executives and academics, interact with students.
 
 
