What started as his mother's measure to curtail his mischief has turned out to be a boon for the son.  , who started swimming at the age of two-and-a-half and has now been selected for the Commonwealth Games 2018 to be held in April in Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia, shares this anecdote with Bangalore Mirror. "I was too naughty at home and it was really difficult for my parents to control me. The only option for them was to send me to a swimming pool with my brother, so that the house was in order at least for those couple of hours. However, I soon got addicted to the underwater moves and it turned into my passion," he says.

 
 
 
 
 Srihari, who is pursuing his second-year pre-university at Jain College, has more than two dozen medals to his name and national and international track records in swimming. A well-planned training for   began from 2009 onwards, where he started taking what he loves seriously. "I started getting trained in a club from 2009-10 and from then I have not missed continuous training," he said.
 
 This young swimmer, who will be now representing one of the biggest competitions in the world, is practising close to five hours and an extra workout schedule. He added, "I practise two-and-a-half hours in the morning and evening and I hit the gym for another one-and-a-half hours and that is how I am getting trained." 
 
 The first competition that he participated in was the National Swimming Championship in 2010. About the transformation, he says, "It feels good from being a junior swimmer and now being serious about the sport. Seriousness towards the game is what you need and dedication towards the sport is what I always keep in my mind."
 
 
 
 
 While Srihari can swim all categories, he says, peace of mind and no disturbance around makes him the best swimmer. "I do not like when people talk and play in the pool. I need absolute silence and that is how I am on my headphones until the time I dive in the pool. Luckily, I have been given tips by   (BSRC) at Ramakrishna Hegde Swimming Pool about my strengths and weaknesses and I am now working on it." 
 
 His chief coach AC   said, "He is one person who is known for discipline and confidence. He is strict in his own ways and is best at what he does. The only thing I keep telling him is to give 100 per cent and he does it without any hassle." 
 
 Visweswaraiah GM, chairman of BSRC, said research conducted by the centre under the guidance of Dronacharya awardee Pradeep has come handy for swimmers as they can give scientifc data for the swimmers to improve. 
 
 "As there is no dedicated research centre in this part of the country, it becomes very difficult for the swimmers to get knowledge. However, giving them the right tips on the diet and exercises can be handy for swimmers like Srihari," he says
 
 Gagan AP, who had represnted in India in 2012 Olympics says, "We are placing great hopes on Srihari that he will bring medals to our country."
 
