Chandigarh: Nearly 33 years after the anti-Sikh riots of 1984, a handful of Sikh families from Gurgaon have for the first time approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking compensation for the deaths and destruction they suffered. Most of them were living in Pataudi town at the time of the riots and have justified their delayed claim by stating that they had no clue about claims commissions being set up.

 Taking cognizance of the petition, the court has put the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) and the Haryana government on notice.
 
 The case reached the high court in the wake of a petition filed by seven people who now live in Faridabad, New Delhi, Mohali and Nabha in Punjab. Four of the petitioners – Paramjit Singh, Jaswinder Singh, Jasbir Kaur, and Upkar Kaur – had lost their father Harjap Singh in the violence and an FIR was registered in Gurgaon on November 2, 1984. Another petitioner, Harnam Kaur, had lost two of her grown-up daughters and son Gurbax Singh. She had registered an FIR at the police station in Pataudi.
 
 The petitioners also includes Harpreet Kaur who was just one when her father Gurbax Singh was killed by a mob while Shanti Devi lost her husband Surjit Singh and son Gurmakh Singh.
 
 All of them had lost their houses in shops in the violence. They have sought Rs 15 lakh each for being the legal heirs of those who were lynched by mobs and another Rs 5 lakh each for the damage to their properties. The petitioners have also submitted that they want compensation according to recommendations of the Justice T P Garg commission in relation to the claims of those killed in Hondh-Chillar village of Rewari in 1984.
 
 “The violence that had erupted in Delhi following the death of the then prime minister, Indira Gandhi, had spread to surrounding areas in Haryana,” the petitioner had argued. “As a result of this violence, a large number of Sikhs were murdered, burnt alive, and their properties were looted and destroyed by the violent mob in Gurgaon. The violence of unprecedented magnitude not only hurt the feelings of Sikh community but also shocked the conscience of all right-minded persons throughout the country.”
 
 Besides MHA and the Haryana government, Justice R K Jain of the HC has also asked the deputy commissioner of Gurgaon and the special secretary, office of rehabilitation cum chief settlement commissioner, Haryana, to respond by March 23.
 
 Demand justified: Phoolka
 
 Senior advocate and AAP MLA H S Phoolka said, “This only shows that the victims are scattered all around and the government has completely failed to give compensation to the victims and their families. They should be compensated. The time lapse should not be made into an excuse to not give them relief as the killings are on record.”
 
 
