Manchester-based band   recently visited Bengaluru. Inspired by reggae and rock alike, they call their genre a mix of reggae, rock, punk, ska and calypso. Their lead singer   spoke to us about their music, India and more. Excerpts... 

 
 
 It was incredible last time, because we got to stay for two weeks. We experienced Bengaluru, which was amazing. One thing that I noticed and was impressed with in Bengaluru is the calibre of the musicians here. We have seen so many great bands from here. The people are very friendly too. 
 
 
 
 Our inspirations are from the roots of each genre we play, mostly reggae — artistes like   and Peter Tosh for example. There are other bands like   and Police that have inspired us as well.
 
 
 
 When I was younger, my mom used to play a lot of reggae music, mainly Bob Marley. I just used to keep listening to it. Over time, I realized that this is what I wanted to do. I wanted to become a musician just like him.
 
 
 
 We’re from  , where we were all in different bands the time we met. It was our love for reggae that got us together and unite to form our own reggae band. 
 
 
 We are really hoping to get our very own label and stuff. And I am sure we will be able to reach that level by then. We are doing quite well already. We are trying to release as much music as we can. So, in 10 years, we just hope that we would have grown our music bigger and better.
 
 
 
 According to me, No Booty is the best song we have released. It is actually one of the first songs we ever wrote. We have two versions of it. Since we liked it so much, we keep doing different versions, just so we do not get bored of it. The song is basically about enjoying a beautiful dance and living in the moment. 
 
 
 
 I would really like to collaborate with UB40. They are doing really well. And they are really nice guys. Every time we meet, we discuss a collaboration. We have played for the same concert with them. So, hopefully we will be able to do a song together as well. 
 
 
 
 If this is what you wanted to do, you have to put all your effort in it. It will not happen overnight as it is a long process. So be ready for it. Be confident and you will make it.
 
