MANGALURU: While   workers celebrated in the city after   was sworn in as  , the   staged a protest near the Mahatma Gandhi statue near Town Hall in the city on Thursday.

 The BJP celebrated victory in front of its district committee office. Mangaluru City police ensured that protection was given to both party offices, when party cadres took to the streets. While the BJP celebrated the swearing in of B S Yedyurappa as the new chief minister of Karnataka, the Congress members protested against the Governor’s move of inviting the BJP to form the government. Congress leaders called the move a “murder of democracy,” and expressed their anguish at not being allowed to form a coalition government with the JD(S).
 
 In the morning, hundreds of BJP leaders and party workers gathered in front of their office and celebrated the swearing in of Yeddyurappa by bursting crackers and distributing sweets. The BJP leaders made sure that they cleaned up after they were done.   district campaign committee in-charge Monappa Bhandary and other party leaders took brooms to clean the road, where crackers were burst.
 
 “In five years, the Congress has given the worst-possible performance by a government, and has been involved in maladministration. Though the Congress has been crying foul by branding us communal, they have proved their communal agenda in the past five years,” Bhandary alleged.
 
 Meanwhile, Congress leaders and party workers staged a protest condemning the governor’s move to allow B S Yedyurappa to take oath as chief minister. Addressing the protesters, former MLA J R Lobo said such an invitation is a “murder of democracy.” 
 
 “The BJP is acting according to its own whims and fancies, by neglecting rules and regulations. When the Congress and JD(S) approached the governor with the magic number, he did not invite them to form the government, but invited the BJP instead. It looks like there is no value left for democracy. Prime Minister   is acting like a dictator. With this development, we wonder whether democracy will survive in this country or not. People have to decide about it,” he added.
 
 
