NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) fire and emergency services department has issued a notice to Centre Point School ( ) for constructing an unauthorized school building at its Mother’s Pet Kindergarten at  . The fire department has also exposed violations in two old buildings at the same premises.

  
  
 
 
 CPS has started construction of G+7 floor school building on land allotted for playground without a sanctioned building plan or fire NOC, since last couple of months. TOI had highlighted the unauthorized construction on March 27.
 
 Taking cognisance of TOI’s report, a team of fire department and Dharampeth Zone officials inspected the under construction building. Fire department issued notice on April 9 to CPS, directing it to obtain NOC by submitting required documents within a week. “We will declare the building unsafe, and take action, if CPS fails to comply with the notice,” an official said.
 
 However, instead of issuing notice under the MRTP Act, the Dharampeth Zone office has sent a letter to CPS, directing it to submit all documents related to the under construction building. “We will issue notice to CPS after going through all the documents,” a zone official said.
 
 After TOI’s report, the NMC town planning department and also fire department had written letters to the zone office suggesting action against CPS. Still, the zone office seems to be shielding the unauthorized construction.
 
 As per the fire department notice, CPS had obtained sanction for G+2 floors for Wing-A and G+5 floors for Wing-A-1. But Wing-A comprises G+5 floors, and Wing-A-1 consists of G+6 floors. The zone office has not taken any action against the violations in these old buildings.
 
 Arun Upadhyaya of CPS had told TOI it was a technical lapse, and process to convert playground to school and get other permissions was underway.
 
 The zone office is known for shielding unauthorized constructions. Some examples are a restaurant in a building at Zenda Chowk, Taori Electronic Mall, and unauthorized restaurants in residential buildings at Dharampeth, Gokulpeth, Shivaji Nagar, Shankar Nagar and Abhyankar Nagar.
 
 
