BHOPAL: Having failed to get   ( ) on board to construct the new collectorate building for Bhopal, district administration has now decided to send a proposal to the revenue department seeking nod for construction in the New Year.

 Layout of the new building is ready and only an agency has to be zeroed on which would carry out the work.
 
 Collector Dr   has had initial talks with the BDA about the construction but it was fruitless as the district administration wanted to allot the land to BDA in lieu of the construction cost while the latter wanted to do the job only against cash.
 
 “We are not talking about the project anymore. It was at a very initial stage. District collector, who also happens to be a board member in BDA, had verbally proposed that BDA constructs the building. We were ready but it would have entailed a cost of Rs 47-48 crore. When we asked how it would be disbursed, district administration proposed that they would give us land in lieu of the construction cost and not cash. We were not ready for it and the matter remained in the slow lane,” said BDA chairman Om  .
 
 Yadav clarified that no paper work had been done regarding the proposal and it was limited to verbal discussion. “If the state government would have given us the job, we would have done it. We can’t defy them but it was not the case,” he said.
 
 When asked whether the proposal has been shelved or some other agency is being given the job, Yadav said that the site of the new building and who would build it, is yet to be decided.
 
 Dr   denied that the proposal has been abandoned and said, “We do need a new building. Map of the new building is ready and we shall soon send it to state government for its approval. Work on the project could begin once the revenue department approves the plan. He said that after talks with BDA failed, they will have to choose new agency to carry out the job.”
 
 When asked about site of the new building, he said it would be constructed at the same place where the present collectorate building is.
 
 “Extension and renovation of the building could also serve the purpose,” he added.
 
