CHENNAI: All those close to  , a 28-year-old realtor who died this week after ingesting a weight-loss concoction from a quack, recall him being desperately unhappy about being obese. Many suggested ways to lose the extra kilos, but few thought of helping him take the weight off his mind.

 Pradeep was not alone in feeling alienated. A recent study by Vellore-based Christian Medical College doctors has shed light on the struggles of people suffering from obesity. Of the 60 people who consulted the hospital’s bariatric facility, one-third had a psychiatric disorder, and half had   and dysthymia (persistent mild depression). This is higher than the lifetime prevalence of depression in general population which is 17%.
 
 
  
 
 They were interviewed on suicidal ideation, past self-injurious behaviour, perceived poor social support, and past psychiatric history. “More than 30% ticked all boxes,” said co-author Dr  , assistant professor of psychiatry. The findings were published this month in the Indian Journal of Psychological Medicine. 
 
 The findings are significant considering the growing demand for bariatric surgeries, said Dr Kattula. “Few realise these people need counselling. But they are rarely asked to undertake psychiatric evalulation.” Of all who seek help at CMC’s bariatric unit, only 10% go under scalpel. “The rest are counselled and a dietary schedule drawn up.”
 
 All those studied had a body mass index (measure of body fat based on weight in relation to height) of more than 35kg/m2. The normal BMI for Indians is 18.5-22kg/m
 
 Around 15% of those studied had a history of psychosis, characterised by an impaired relationship with reality. Past studies, Dr Kattula said, established that patients with schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders had a high prevalence of metabolic disturbances, which could lead to obesity. Five patients had substance use disorders mostly nicotine and alcohol.
 
 The most prevalent feeling among them was perceived stigma that most people judge and few understand what they go through. Nearly 40 said they had no social support and were often ridiculed. 
 
 Co-author Dr  , head of the department of endocrinology, diabetes and metabolism, said there is substantial literature showing a relationship between psychiatric comorbidity with morbid obesity (BMI of 40 or more). Studies, he said, have recognised that morbidly obese people are described as depressed, anxious, having poor impulse control, low self-esteem, and impaired quality of life. 
 
  Patients in depressive disorder spectrum tend to overeat, eat for relief during periods of stress, and also have a sedentary lifestyle. Second, living with obesity can have detrimental impact on a person’s mental health. Third, both of these may be related to an unknown factor.
 
 
