INDORE:   Medical College will improve patient care facilities including CT scan, MRI, bone marrow transplant and cochlear implant in 2018.

 A statewide change in the government’s policy of offering CT scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) facilities through public-private -partnership ( ) is expected to start from MY Hospital. “The state government has given approval to spend around Rs 18 crore for buying the facilities so that the patients can be given relief in charges of the medical test,” said dean Dr Sharad  .
 
 He said, a survey done by the radiography department has revealed that cost of these advanced facilities will be recovered in next three years. “We are going to send a proposal of Rs 18 crore to develop a central ICU unit of 68 beds. Besides, three operation theaters (OTs) will help reducing burden of neurosurgery and dental department” the dean said.
 
 The college will develop a 30-bed including 12 ICU beds in the proposed building of burn unit. “The state government has sanctioned Rs 3 crore for the project but we want to develop a state-of-the- art facility and therefore, will soon send a fresh proposal of Rs 8 crore” Dr Thora said.
 
 He said that the college authority has also decided to increase construction area of the long-pending virology lab from 250 square metre area to 550 square metre and thus, will send a fresh proposal of Rs 3.5 crore to the state government. “The government has earlier sanctioned a sum of Rs 1.7 crore but as per the new requirement, we will approach the state government to increase the fund” the dean said.
 
 Besides this, chief minister   is likely to inaugurate bone marrow transplant (BMT) during his two-day stay in Indore on January 3 and 4, while the first surgery is likely to be performed in February.
 
 The college authority will also approach the state government to acquire medical equipment worth around Rs 55 lakhs to start Cochlear Implantation.
 
 “We will try to start Maharaja Tukojirao Hospital (MTH) by April, while Rs 1.2 crore will be spent to start in-vitro fertilization (IVF) facility in MY Hospital,” the dean said.
 
 During his Indore visit a few days ago, additional chief secretary   had given consent for most of the projects and had also told the college authority to send the proposals to the state government for its consent.
 
 Meanwhile,   on Monday took over the work of security, cleanliness, data entry operation, parking and other facilities at MGM and its associated hospitals.
 
 
