HYDERABAD: A group of Muslims in Hyderabad has lodged a complaint with the police against expressions of actor   in a song in 
  ‘
 ’ that is to be released soon. 

 Priya Varrier’s expressions in the song ‘
 ’ have become hugely popular on the social media. The complainants have claimed that the picturisation of the song is objectionable because its lyrics are linked to the Prophet’s life.
 
 
 
 In a written complaint to the Falaknuma police, the group said the picturisation of the song has hurt the sentiments of the Muslim community. The complaint was filed with signatures of at least 57 people with their telephone numbers, and addresses provided to the police. “It is not acceptable for us to see a romantic song picturised on some actors with lyrics of the song linked to the Prophet,” Mohd Abdul, an engineering student in Hyderabad who lodged the complaint with the police told TOI.
 
 The police have registered a case based on the complaint under Section 295 of the IPC, which deals with deliberately hurting religious sentiments. The case has been registered against director Omar Lulu and others. 
 
 Mohd Abdul Bari, ACP Falaknuma, said police will take the opinion of Islamic scholars before proceeding ahead with the case. "We will get the song translated from Malyalam to Urdu and then to English from language experts to understand if there is anything objectionable," he said.
 
 "The director will be called only if the police feel there is a need to take his viewpoint," Mohd Abdul Bari added. 
 
 
 
 Adnan Qamar, a resident of Hyderabad went live on Facebook to explain how  's expressions in the song were objectionable because of its lyrics. “It is sad that the filmmaker himself is a Muslim and almost the entire cast is Muslim but still such objectionable picturisation has been shown in the film,” Anand Qamar says in a video that has also gone viral. 
 
 He also posted the lyrics of the song and its English translation for people to understand. The objection is about the expressions in the song and not the song or the lyrics.
 
 The translated lyrics read: “A woman like the Pearl flower her highness - Khatija Beebi in the holy City of Mecca she lived like a queen …” Pointing this out, one Muzakkir Ali, who responded to Adnan Qamar’s video, agreed to his views and said, “Great words but the direction is absolutely wrong.”
 
 Clarifying that they had nothing against the actors, the complainant said he had no objection even if 
  decided to act in the movie. “We do not like the picturisation of the song. That’s it,” he said. 
 
 
 
 Mohd Abdul said he had first contacted the Kerala Police bringing the issue to their notice. However, they advised me to lodge a complaint with the local police in Hyderabad if we had any objection to the song, he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
