NEW DELHI: The   filed an appeal in the   on Thursday challenging the five-month-old Allahabad high court order acquitting Rajesh and   in the murder of their teenage daughter Aarushi and domestic help Hemraj at their Noida residence in 2008.

 Armed with opinion from additional solicitor general P Narasimha for filing the appeal, the CBI said the HC had erred in reversing the "well-reasoned" order of a Ghaziabad trial court which had scrutinised the entire gamut of circumstantial evidence and "rightly applied" the "last seen with" theory in convicting the Talwar couple.
 
 On October 12, the Allahabad HC had acquitted the   in the sensational double-murder case and said they could not be held guilty on the basis of the evidence on record. The verdict had ended the nine-year ordeal of the parents, who were found guilty by a Ghaziabad CBI court of murdering 13-year-old Aarushi and Hemraj and sentenced them to life imprisonment on November 26, 2013.
 
 Prior to that, the CBI had filed a closure report in the CBI court saying it was not able to bring murder charges against anyone because of insufficient evidence. The CBI court rejected the closure report and proceeded with the trial against the Talwars saying there was enough circumstantial evidence despite the agency's closure report.
 
 In its appeal against the Talwars' acquittal, the CBI said the HC had erred by not taking into account important circumstantial evidence, which assumed significance in a case of this nature where there were no eyewitnesses. The agency said the HC completely discarded the "demeanour of the parents" immediately after the murders were discovered, which it said was an important pointer towards their role in the crime.
 
 The CBI said the HC also discarded a maid's testimony relating to the conduct and behaviour of the Talwars the day after the murders and her statement about the door not being locked from outside as was claimed by the Talwars. "The HC completely ignored several well-contoured circumstantial evidence carefully analysed by the trial court for recording of guilt of the parents (sic) in the case," the agency said.
 
 Hemraj's wife had moved the Supreme Court in December last year against the exoneration of the Talwars.
 
 Aarushi was found dead, with her throat slit, in her bedroom in the Talwars' Jalvayu Vihar residence in Noida on May 16, 2008, eight days short of her 14th birthday. At first, the main suspect was Hemraj, but his body was recovered from the terrace of the house a day later.
 
 
