HYDERABAD: From commercial establishments to apartments, builders in the city flout norms by tweaking the building rules,   officials said on Tuesday. 

 While in Madhapur, a reputed hospital does not have adequate parking space, many builders in the peripheral areas have encroached upon the main road as well as lakes.
 
 G Srinivas Goud, a resident of   and husband of G Jyothi Goud, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) co-option member complained of a builder encroaching upon a major portion of a road in Alwal.
 
 According to the GHMC officials, they have sent a proposal to the government to make mortgage mandatory for plots over 100 square metres. At present, mortgage is mandatory only for plots more than 200 square metres. 
 
 "In several cases, builders apply permission for plot measuring more than 200 meters as two units, but while constructing, they raise the structure as one building. In order to put an end to this norm, we have made mortgage and occupancy certificate mandatory for plots more than 100 square meters," said S   GHMC Chief City Planner (CCP). 
 
 Residents of Alwal also complained to the civic body about building permission granted for constructing a structure in the land which falls under the Full Tank Level (FTL) area of Kotha Cheruvu, also known as Alwal lake, but in vain.
 
 They alleged that authorities were ignoring the unauthorised cellar in their area. Locals in Alwal say unauthorised constructions affectS the sewage system which is already poor in their area.
 
 "The lake in our area is being encroached and the GHMC is not taking any action. Apart from damaging the eco-system, illegal constructions further aggravate the overflowing sewage problem in Alwal and the unauthorised cellar can be dangerous during monsoon. I complained to the civic body regarding the issue," said said K Srinivas Varma, general secretary of Loksatta (Greater Hyderabad) and a resident of Alwal.
 
 He further said there were other unauthorised constructions near the lake, constantly eating into the water body.
 
 According to engineering experts, during monsoon the water in cellar weakens adjacent walls, which can turn out to be dangerous for people.the water in cellar weakens adjacent walls, which can turn out to be dangerous for people.
 
 The civic body has sent a proposal to make mortgage mandatory for plots over 100 square metres. At present, mortgage is mandatory only for plots over 200 square metres
 
 
