NEW DELHI: Snatching, or the criminal act of forcibly grabbing and stealing jewellery and articles from people, is a big nuisance in the capital, but lack of specific laws to deal with the problem has stymied police efforts to check it. One way out would have been to introduce new laws, and   has indeed proposed two. However, Delhi government appears to have passed the buck to the Centre. 

 Documents accessed by TOI show that Delhi Police wrote to the government citing a TOI report of March 20 and proposed two new laws to make snatching a non-bailable offence with stringent punishments.
 
 
  
 
  The proposal was sent to principal secretary of the state home department on March 26. However, the cops got a response saying that the minister in charge of the home department did not favour the new proposals.
 
  Minister   was of the opinion that enhancement of punishment by itself might not curtail the act. Instead, the government viewed snatchings as robbery.
 
  Jain indicated the cops could register cases for theft along with causing hurt under Section 390 of the Indian Penal Code. This is punishable by up to 10 years’ of imprisonment and, if committed on a highway between sunset and sunrise, by up to 14 years behind bars. “There will be an overlap between the already existing punishment for robbery and the one proposed by Delhi Police on snatching. 
 
 It is not clear why chain snatching cases are not treated as theft with hurt,” Jain wrote. The state government also felt that the certainty of punishment was a bigger deterrent rather than the quantum of punishment. Jain’s letter to the police force said, “… with   coverage, due diligence and a bit of professionalism, Delhi Police should be in a position to swiftly prosecute the offenders under existing laws itself.” Sources in Delhi government, however, added that the authorities had already apprised Delhi high court that it had asked the Centre to consider amending the penal provisions for the crime of chain snatching in the capital.
 
 Legal experts point out that new laws could be introduce by the Delhi government passing a resolution on amending the existing theft laws and include such provisions under Section 379 (A &B), as has been done in  . It can then seek the President’s assent directly. The Union home ministry could also issue a notification in this regard, with the precedent being the application of   and other laws in Delhi through notifications.
 
 Experts pointed out that   is usually involved only if major changes are sought in the Indian Penal Code TOI has been highlighting how legal provisions for easy bail thwarts police efforts to crack down on snatchers. In 2014, Haryana had made the act a non-bailable offence punishable by up to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment.
 
 The new law in Haryana defines a snatcher as “whoever with the intention to commit theft suddenly or quickly or forcibly seizes or secures or grabs or takes away from any person or from his possession any moveable property and makes attempts to escape with such property”. Cops in the city feel a specific provision like this would ease the way for a more effective way to deal with the crime. Delhi Police currently books snatchers under Section 379 of IPC for theft and Section 356 for assault or criminal force during theft.
 
