CHANDIGARH: High tension wires passing over the inhabited areas in   may be a thing of past, as the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the state government to inform the court as to what steps have being taken regarding removing/shifting of such wires.

 Division bench comprising Justice A K   and Justice   has passed these orders after the principal secretary of power department informed the HC that permission had been sought to incur the expenditure of Rs 33 crore for shifting 33 KV and above voltage lines passing over housing colonies out of the approved CAPEX of Rs 1,200 crore for the Financial Year 2016-17.
 
 Hearing this, the bench asked the state government to file an affidavit “in respect of the steps being taken by the   (DHBVN) and Uttar Haryana Bijali Vitran Nigam ( ) with regard to the removing/shifting of 33 KV and 11 KV lines, where the said lines are passing over the inhabited areas”.
 
 The matter has now been fixed for February 20 for further hearing. The issue has come up in the wake of an ongoing petition drawing attention to endangering of human lives because of the high tension wires crossing the residential areas.
 
 On a previous date of hearing, the HC was informed that more than 7,500 notices have been issued to the people after a series of accidents reported due to high tension wires in various parts of the state.
 
 DHBVN had submitted that a total of 4,558 notices with regard to the unauthorized construction in Hisar, Sirsa, Bhiwani, Jind, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Palwal, Rewari and Narnaul circles were issued. Similarly, the UHBVN stated that total 3,316 notices with regard to the unauthorized construction in Ambala, Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Karnal, Yanuma Nagar, Sonepat, Panipat, Rohtak and Jhajjar were issued.
 
 The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of a case related to eight-year-old boy, who had suffered triple amputation of the limbs due to electrocution by a high tension wire in his village in Panipat. In this case the HC had ordered around Rs 60 lakh compensation package from the state government. 
 
