NOIDA: While the street lights have been repaired at   in Sector 85 where   executive   died in a car accident in the early hours of Wednesday, the sector roads along the Noida expressway are poorly lit.

 A reality check on Thursday night revealed several dark stretches from Noida traffic control room on the expressway to Sector 137 — a 11.3-kilometre distance. On the entire route, TOI spotted only one PCR van near Advant Building. Khanna took the same route while returning from Gurgaon office to Sector 137. Her car Verna fell into an open drain while negotiating a bend near the Sector 85 roundabout.
 
  
 Though traffic lights were operational at sectors 98-105 crossing, street lights were not functional. This dark stretch continued for around a kilometre till we found some traffic lights and street lights functional near Sector 82 police chowki. Again there were several dark stretches till Sector 93, where we spotted a PCR van parked near the Advant Building.
 
 A similar situation prevailed on the stretch from Advant Building to Sector 137. On the entire stretch, only a few street lights were functional. However, the Fresco Chowk was well lit with street lights.
 
 Residents of several housing socities — Punvanchal Royal Park, Paramount Floraville Sector, Supertech Ecociti, Logix Blossom County, Paras Tierea — say commuting has become a nightmare for them in the absence of proper street lights. A large number of residents who have moved into these societies in the past few years, commute to their offices in Delhi everyday. 
 
 “A number of companies have come up along the expressway. People return home late night from their offices, but traversing on this 11.3-kilometre stretch has become a nightmare. Crimes like snatchings and vehicle thefts are the rise,” said Gaurav Singh, a resident of Sector 137.
 
 Indrish Gupta, co-founder of  , said defunct street lights are a serious issue for developing sectors. “Our organisation will hold meetings with the   officials and demand the roads be lit properly. We will also demand proper safety measures and fencing of drains in the sectors,” he said. 
 
 When contacted, Anil Kumar Jha, SP (traffic), Noida, said the maintenance of traffic signals is with the Noida Authority. But Authority officials could not be contacted, despite repeated attempts.
 
 Satyendra Kumar Rai, SHO of Phase II police station, said the local police chowki in-charge has been directed to increase patrolling in the area.
 
 
