THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A crack developed on   bridge last year led to an inspection by the   which identified bigger damages in the piers that demanded immediate renovation. The new piers were constructed and bridge was opened for traffic in six months. 

 PWD, which conducted inspection on all   constructed by the department following the Enathu incident, has found that 165 bridges in the state are in a situation that warrants urgent  . PWD minister G Sudhakaran convened a meeting of PWD officials on Thursday to discuss the issue. 
 
 
  
 
 The report prepared by chief engineer (roads and bridges) in March has listed 200 bridges that need immediate rehabilitation. The PWD divulged the list of bridges that need repair as an RTI reply given to activist D B Binu. 
 
 Pointing to the lack of timely  , the report shows that more than half of the total bridges in the state requires maintenance. Of the 2,249 bridges inspected, 1,281 need maintenance. 
 
 Only around 603 bridges in the state are reported to be in good condition. The highest number of bridges that require reconstruction is in Kannur. While Kannur has 22 bridges that need reconstruction, Pathanamthitta closely follows with 21 bridges.
 
 Alappuzha tops the districts which have bridges that need renovation. There are 36 bridges under PWD in Alappuzha which need renovation while eight bridges in the district need to be reconstructed. Twenty-seven bridges in Thrissur need to be renovated while nine should be reconstructed.
 
 The inspections were conducted in March last year, based on the direction of PWD minister. The chief engineer has requested PWD to constitute a technical committee to assess estimate for rehabilitation and reconstruction of various bridges. 
 
 The total estimate for the renovation and reconstruction of the bridges will come around Rs 4,000 crore. PWD principal secretary G Kamalavardhana Rao said that around Rs 200 crore will be required for immediate construction of the 165 bridges. 
 
 “We have already taken up the issue with the finance department. The minister has also informed that bridges must be given priority in the next budget,” Rao said.
 
 
