MUMBAI: Members of the   standing   have raised a stink after three consultants tasked with designing specifications for road- laying work were allowed to participate in the tendering process. The tender worth over Rs 10 crore is for a period of three years. 

 Standing committee members said that if consultants are permitted to design specifications, then it increases the scope of corruption. They alleged that the consultants had allegedly formulated specifications for 234 roads two years ago and it led to irregularities of around Rs 2,000 crore. The standing committee members alleged that instead of taking action these consultants, the civic administration was considering them for new contracts. 
 
 The issue of appointing consultants came up before the BMC’s standing committee meeting on Wednesday. But after strong opposition, the proposal was put on hold. The standing committee chairman directed the civic administration to clarify on whether or not any action had been taken against the consultants. “Consultants actually manipulate road work specifications in such a way that it favours the road contractor,” said a standing committee member. Irregularities in road works was unearthed two years ago only after civic officials scrutinized 234 roads and examined samples of material used. 
 
 Officials found in many roads base layers were missing. “Contractors had cut corners to maximize profit. They had assumed that no one would check what was beneath the road surface,” said a corporator.   group leader and standing committee member   said, “The three consultants who were permitted to participate in the tendering process were involved in the road scam, but no action was taken against them.” 
 
 Leader of the opposition in the BMC and   corporator   said that the practice of appointing consultants should be banned, except in special cases. SP corporator   said, “The consultants are the real players in the scam and work in connivance with the contractor. They manipulate road-layering specification in such a way, that allows a contractor to cut corners and it is tough to detect the anomaly.”
