PUNE: An increasing number of children here is crawling straight out of the prams and getting glued to television screens.

 
  
 
 A study by child experts to assess the television viewing patterns among infants has found that 98% of the 1,000 kids aged below five and surveyed by them had started viewing television even before they turned two (see graphics). The survey stated that almost 60% of these children started viewing   between six months and a year of age.
 
 “We studied 1,000 children and their families in the last two years. The findings show alarmingly high level of exposure to television among children below two years of age,” said paediatrician Jitendra Oswal, principal investigator of the study carried out by paediatricians at   between 2015 and 2017.
 
 The American Academy of Paediatrics (AAP) discourages all types of media use, including television, by children younger than two years. It recommends only one-two hours of supervised screen time for children aged between two and five years.
 
 “AAP realises that media exposure is a reality for many families in today’s society. It clearly states that if parents choose to engage their young children with electronic media, they should have concrete strategies to manage it,” said Oswal, who is also the deputy medical director of Bharati Hospital and Medical College.
 
 “Unstructured playtime is more valuable for the developing brains than any electronic media exposure. If a parent is not able to actively play with a child, that kid should have solo playtime with an adult nearby. This is what the American Academy of Paediatrics has recommended,” Oswal said.
 
 TV viewing has negative effects on food habits, behaviour patterns, attention span and sleep regimen. “Our study has corroborated these negative effects,” said paediatrician Vipul Gandhi, the other researcher involved in the execution of the study. 
 
 Developmental paediatrician Leena Srivastava, who is the national secretary of Indian Academy of Paediatrics’ chapter of Neuro Developmental Paediatrics, said, “The study validates our worry as developmental professionals that children are getting not only exposed but immersed in too much ‘screen time’ and too early.”
 
 
