 was in search of traditional paddy seeds, when he happened to visit the house of A Ramakrishnan, a farmer in Nagapattinam. The 80-year-old spoke vibrantly about the medicinal values of traditional paddy seeds, and then walked into his room. After five minutes, he returned with a bundle of paddy seeds covered in a dusty cloth. It was ‘Kattuyanam’, a rare variety of paddy with medicinal values, which had been cultivated by his forefathers. When Jayaraman told him about their initiative, the farmer donated the bundle of paddy seeds to him.

  
  
 Although Jayaraman started his journey with organic guru G Nammalwar to revive the lost native seeds in 2004, he could initially collect only 15 varieties. He cultivated it in his village and then distributed the same to farmers in the first   (paddy seed festival) that he organised in his native village Adirangam in Tiruvarur district in 2006. The festival got good response from farmers and agricultural experts. That enticed Jayaraman to continue his journey in search of the lost paddy seeds and has collected 169 varieties of seeds so far. The 12th Nel Vizha will be held in Adirangam on May 21 and 22. "Many farmers in Tamil Nadu preserve traditional paddy seeds. Even though they don’t cultivate it, many preserve it. I walked into many such houses and convinced them. Today I could collect 169 traditional paddy seeds," said Jayaraman.
 
 
 Paddy was once deeply rooted in the cultural and social life of people. Today, many traditional paddy seeds have been lost due to unscientific agricultural practice. A school dropout turned farmer, Jayaraman revived the traditional paddy varieties as part of the Save our Rice (SoR) Campaign, a national movement aimed at conserving traditional varieties of paddy. "I experimented with the cultivation of traditional paddy seeds organically. I found many seeds are climate-resistant. Some have high medicinal values. I distributed the seeds to farmers and showed them how cultivate them," he said.
 
 The challenge was to convince the farmers. "It was not easy, but years of hard work helped. Farmers slowly realised the potential of our native paddy seeds. There were more takers once they realised the medicinal values associated with some paddy seeds," said Jayaraman, who is planning to distribute seeds to more than 7,000 farmers in the forthcoming paddy festival.
 
 Jayaraman has been the main motivator and organiser of the paddy seed festival, one of the largest seed festivals in Tami Nadu, which is held every year in Adirangam. "The main objective of the festival is to revive   that are red and black in colour, but with nutritional value. Our traditional seeds can control cholesterol and blood sugar. We will be distributing seeds meant to control such diseases, in the festival," he said.
 
 Jayaraman has categorised paddy seeds based on the geography. "I am distributing the seeds depending on the place. For example, I have some special seeds for delta regions like Thanjavur. Each place should have a different variety, and that’s our goal," he added. 
 
 
