CHENNAI: Taking a ‘tall’ child with you in a government mofussil  ? Ensure that you carry the child’s  . Without age proof,   will charge full fare for the ticket even if the child is eligible for the half-fare concession. 

 
 With increasing losses in revenue, various state transport corporations last week reiterated to conductors not to consider only the earlier yardstick — a   of 130cm — while giving a child the discount if they fail to provide a birth certificate as age proof. 
 
 As per Tamil Nadu Motor Vehicle Rules, children between the ages of three and 12 must only be charged half the fare in all government buses expect those which are operated as town or metropolitan services. 
 
 If they are unable to produce birth certificate as proof, the conductor should check the height of the child and collect half the fare only if the height of the child does not exceed 130cm, an official said. Markings at the entrance of the bus and on the grille behind the driver’s seat allow conductors to check a passenger’s height. 
 
 Passengers complain that conductors do not accept ID proof such as Aadhaar and ration card as proof. “It is unfair to reject ID proof issued by various government agencies. It is practically impossible for all passengers to carry birth certificates with them,” said consumer rights’ activist K Kathirmathiyon. 
 
 Based on a complaint he made a few years ago, transport corporations made it mandatory for buses to paint or fix a board inside the bus explaining the rules. However, this is seldom followed. 
 
 There have been several instances in which conductors denied a seat to these children asking parents to seat them on their laps instead. 
 
 In response, Khadar Ibrahim from SDPI transport union said, “Ticket checkers penalise us if we do not adhere to these rules strictly.”
 
 The inspections have increased after after a bus fare hike in January led to a drop in passengers and revenue. Ytansport corporations now insist that conductors be strict as far as age proof is concerned, Ibrahim said.
 
