GURUGRAM: The foundation stone of a 4,000-capacity multi-level car parking, spread over four acre in Vanijya Kunj of  , was laid in 2004 by the then chief minister  . Fourteen years later, the area’s development agency, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation ( ), has auctioned the four-acre car park site as part of a 11-acre plot, to   for Rs 1,496 crore.

 As per initial plan, the four acre plot for the car park in Phase 5, Udyog Vihar, was part of a six-acre site that was to contain a park on the adjoining two acre. It was planned to make the industrial area — where 1.5 lakh cars visit daily — free from parking woes and traffic congestion. Soon after the parking lot plan was conceived in 2004, HSIIDC put the land under “best use plan”, after confronting “feasibility issues in terms of cost of the project”. Sites under “best use plan” are assessed by consultants to be identified for the use which could be of optimum benefit. The entire project was put on hold later, to be revised and revived intermittently but it never saw the light of day. The foundation stone laid by Chautala still stands at the site.
 
 Finally, when HSIIDC decided to sell off land it owned to raise finances, a contiguous plot of around 5 acre was added to the six-acre plot, to make it into a 11-acre plot that was auctioned off, and bought by DLF recently.
 
 Praveen Yadav, the president of Udyog Vihar Industries Association, said the corporation has failed to properly plan how to develop the area. “Flawed planning by the agency didn’t leave any space for parking lots and green belts,” he added. He further said HSIIDC plotted land for parks across all five Udyog Vihar phases. “But none of the parks were developed. These plots could have been used to build multi-level parking lots,” he said, adding that over 5,000 small- and medium-scale factories exist in Udyog Vihar.
 
 The AGM of HSIIDC, Subhash Vats, said the multi-level car park project has not been shelved. Instead, it has been shifted to Phase 4, Udyog Vihar, though the project could not be started due to ongoing litigation. Once the court case is settled, its construction will begin, he promised. He also said though there is no multi-level car park in Udyog Vihar as of now, HSIIDC is making all efforts to create parking space.
 
 Earlier, the corporation had planned an ambitious car park project extending up to 1.5km over the Nathupur drain, between Phase 5 near NH-8 and the Old Delhi Road near Jwala Mills. The plan is yet to take off, due to pending approvals from HSIIDC’s head office in Panchkula.
 
 
