PUNE: The heat has caused a 20-40% spike in  , fever, cough and extreme respiratory problems over the last few days. The mercury has been rising in the afternoons and dipping at night. 

 The difference in the current temperatures is quite extreme __ night temperature is around 15 degrees celsius while day temperature has been soaring to over 36.1 degrees celsius. Doctors said these are ideal temperatures for swine flu as well and people should therefore be wary.
  
 
 Vilas Gundecha, intensive care specialist and head of the intensive care department, Inlaks & Budhrani Hospital, said there has been a sudden increase in patients coming with community-acquired pneumonia since the summer began. Many are senior citizens.
 
 “Close to 50-60% patients coming to the ICU are reporting respiratory problems—most of them being elderly with or without diabetes. These patients have a tendency of acute kidney injury and several of them develop respiratory failure, requiring mechanical ventilation. They also take a long time to recover,” Gundecha added.
 
 Gundecha said the sudden rise in such patients since the last three weeks is probably because of a virus which seems to have been a result of the recent weather change.
 
 Family physician Avinash Bhondwe said there has also been a 20% increase in the number of patients reporting headache, fever and cough. “ One should go out in the sun only when it is absolutely necessary, School and college students can catch infections faster. The weather conditions are conducive for swine flu,” Bhondwe said.
 
 Santosh Gosavi, president of General Practitioners' Association (GPA), Pune chapter, noticed a 30% increase in cases of chicken pox in children. “The increasing heat during the day and low night temperature is also responsible for a 35% to 40% increase in viral infections, cough and cold, aggravated by low humidity in the air,” he said.
 
 Family physician  , past president of GPA, said,“Patients having persistent cough due to pollution and weather. A new virus that is is the air is causing an increase in respiratory infections like allergic rhinitis, bronchitis and viral pneumonitis,” he said.
 
 
