LUDHIANA: For the new office-bearers of the   ( ) elected on Friday, the dignity of advocates was the main agenda. They also want better treatment of new advocates by the system.

 “On certain occasions, there are allegations of misbehaviour by some judicial officers with young lawyers and female advocates. So, as I have won elections, my main focus will be dignity of lawyers and better bar and bench relations,” said newly elected secretary   (35), who was joint secretary in 2008. He added that there were other issues he would like to deal with, like more chambers for lawyers, and making   (no objection certificate) mandatory for clients from previous lawyers of the case, so that there was nothing outstanding to them from clients.
 
 Muskan Gupta (26), the only female candidate who won elections as executive member says her focus would be on the dignity of female lawyers and youths. She said: “There are cases where some judicial officers misbehave with female lawyers, ask them nasty questions, and try to play them down. As the only female candidate who has won in these elections, it will be my focus to ensure that female lawyers and newcomers are treated properly by judicial officers. Also, as young lawyers, we have to come forward to help new advocates.”
 
 She added: “I have faced so many problems when I joined the court. Some miscreants would push us in the lift, and there are other safety issues. Also, there is water problem in the ladies bar room, no crèches for children of women lawyers, and no separate lift for them. So, my focus will be to get a separate lift for women lawyers, proper drinking water facility, crèche for children of female lawyers, and a separate bar for women. We will also work for the constitution of a committee against sexual harassment of women lawyers, so that they don’t face such problems.”
 
 The new joint secretary   — who contested DBA elections for the first time — said his main focus was dignity of lawyers, as he wanted the executive to respect the genuine requests of members. He added that to achieve the objective, unity of the bar was very important, and he would work for that. “Also, we will take up the matter of stipend for fresh lawyers with the   and  , so that they can survive,” said Hanish (34), who has been practising in the district courts for the past four years. 
 
 
