Many households begin to save and invest seriously after a child is born. It is tough for young parents to save large amounts on a consistent basis. The primary problem in a young household is unexpected expenses keep cropping up, even as incomes remain uneven and risky. Much as they make rules and try to remain sane about spending, there are demands on their income that make it tough to save consistently.

 
 Setting aside small amounts in a systematic investment plan seems like a good thing to do, but there is always the worry that it might not be enough. Committing a higher amount is difficult given erratic saving patterns, and smaller SIPs seem to be too tiny compared to the large amounts that may be needed to send the child to college.
 
 It is this combination of factors that makes buying   an attractive option. Buying a house, even if it is in a remote suburb, ticks off most of the boxes for a young household. The investment qualifies as being big enough to matter – a house that will be worth many times their current income. The hope that it will cover the cost of higher education is high, as there is a visible and satisfying sense of having bought something that will have a high value in the future.
 
 The loan that is used to buy the property is always guised as a compulsory saving. No one cares much for the math of how much is being repaid, or whether the same   could be saved in financial instruments instead. There is no ring of pride and achievement to a stepped up SIP, compared to a second house in an upcoming suburb that will potentially be worth millions.
 
 Then there is a tax saving that comes with the loan, which makes it sweeter. There is the pride of ownership the possibility of earning some rent from the property. A young household thus finds it easy to ‘invest’ in property and satisfy itself that a wise decision has been made. Not everyone who makes this decision earmarks the property for the child. The connection is not direct. But the creation of assets is seen as a very responsible thing to do. The broad sense that all assets will come of use, and a growing asset will help everyone in the household, is satisfying enough to make that decision worthwhile.
 
 It is not as if the young parents are unaware of the benefits of investing in equity shares and equity funds for their children. But the perception of risk is something many do not want to deal with. Some think that unless there is a windfall gain, the investment will not meet their goals; some dislike the ups and downs of the equity market; some find it tough to visualise how money would grow; and some cannot bring themselves to invest a sizeable amount that will matter.
 
 There are far too many young parents who fail to adequately appreciate the power of compounding over time as a powerful tool to fund their children’s future.
 
 Young parents do not short change the future of their children willingly. It is just that they do not realistically evaluate the risks of   as an investment option. They fail to take into account the vagaries of the real estate market, the sharp practices, the risks from delayed and failed projects, the issues that arise from oversupply, choosing a wrong location, the costs of failed promises around development, and the difficulties in realising any profits they may have made.
 
 It’s imperative to have an investment plan that uses a diverse set of assets over a long period of time, chosen carefully and built assiduously. Equity investing lies at the core of this strategy, by sheer virtue of its merit as a long-term growth asset that also enjoys high liquidity. It is easy to be tempted into assuming that nothing beats property as an investment choice. But selling either does not happen at all, or happens with great distress. Young parents ought to be careful where they put their money to work.
 
 
 
 
 
 
