Vijayawada: In December, the AP department of school education introduced objective-oriented summative examinations for Class VIII and IX for the first time, attracting criticism from teachers’ unions across the city. The teachers said   exams lack evaluation of writing and descriptive abilities in students.

 As part of the continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) in 2014, the state board has made a series of changes in evaluation of students to reduce rote-learning. The board has introduced formative assessment and summative   with emphasis on activity-based learning.
 
 On similar lines, the board also wanted to gradually introduce objective questions in summative exams to change the test pattern. It was aimed to encourage students to apply the concepts they learn in problem solving. However, the board faced practical   in implementing the exam pattern. The push back from some teaching communities who believe that objective exams reduce abilities of expression and writing among students, made the board rethink or delay the introduction of the new pattern.
 
 “The board has given no clarity, as of yet, on the path of how the examinations will be conducted,” said T Ramakrishna Reddy, principal at DAV Public School, Ibrahimpatnam. “The board has also not yet released the results of the summative I exams for Classes VIII and IX held in December.” He said that the answersheets have been submitted to the Mandal Education Office (MEO) after the exams. “There is no further word about the objective exams from the board after that,” Reddy said.
 
 He said students will have to have complete understanding of the subject to answer the objective questions. He said such exams make students prepare in a way that they will have to factor in all possible questions when studying concepts.
 
 GS Srinivas, physics teacher at Brilliants High School, agreed. He said the AP state council of educational research and training (APSCERT) has done a good job in preparing the questions for the summative I exams for Classes VIII and IX. “Questions are framed in such a way that only those who have the complete understanding of concepts, and can apply them, will be able to answer the questions. There could be multiple answers for a given question, making students think of all the alternative answers.” 
 
 The exam pattern will also help students prepare for competitive exams such as JEE and NEET, Srinivas said. “However, the pattern will be efficient if teachers and students use it effectively.” 
 
 According to P Manoja, Hindi teacher at MPUP School, Gudavalli, there are many practical problems in implementing the new pattern. “Students have to understand chapters in the textbook, and be able to frame questions for themselves for the exams,” she said. “Objective-based questions requires the teachers to be guiders or facilitators, and this will not work with average and below average students.” 
 
 Srinivas said implementing both the objective- and subjective-based exams in a year will be the best solution for students. He said the board also seems to be planning on similar lines, and beginning to change pattern from Class VI onwards. “Students should also be evaluated on their writing abilities, especially in the languages,” he said. 
 
 The objective exams also make copying easy. “Teachers who are pressured for delivering results at schools sometimes allow students to copy or leak answers,” a teacher said. “It is easy to cheat in these exams. This practice will have adverse effects on students.” 
 
 Computer-based exams are the solution to get rid of copying, said Reddy. “There will be a time limit, and examiners have little to interfere in the examination.” However, students have to be trained to take the computer-based exams, and will take a long time for the government schools to adapt the system.
 
 
