BENGALURU: Concerns that the Karnataka   Act, which empowers citizens to avail of 852 services across 73 departments in a time-bound manner, is still dogged by middlemen have gained credence, with the government stumbling upon several such cases during an ongoing audit.

 The exercise revealed that the same mobile numbers are being used multiple times, in the names of different citizens claiming different services. “These are suspected to belong to middlemen,” one slide of a presentation made during a meeting of senior officials on Monday read.
 
 The presentation claimed that four mobile numbers were found to have been listed against the names of 366 citizens. While two were were listed against 95 citizens, one represented 110 people and the fourth was listed in the names of 66 people.
 
 When TOI contacted the four mobile numbers, there was no response from three (either the calls weren’t answered or the numbers remained switched off), while the fourth one belonged to  , an assistant to the revenue inspector, working at the Bengaluru North taluk office.
 
 Claiming there was no wrongdoing, Vasudev told TOI: “A lot of people enter my mobile number along with their applications; I don’t know how many have done it. Often, people in the office also add my number to the applications when some citizens come looking for me.”
 
 He conceded that other mobile numbers are also seen on multiple applications. “In one case, a number ending with 187 was noticed on various applications and we found out that it belonged to a cyber cafe in  . We’ve contacted the person and informed him that if online applications are being filed with his mobile number, he must ensure that appropriate documents are also submitted,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 TOI had reported last week that according to the audit, over 8,000 government offices hadn’t accepted even a single application under   since the inception of the flagship programme in 2012. Additional chief secretary TM Vijay Bhaskar said that many of these have now begun accepting applications and several have been instructed to follow suit.
 
 “We’ve also found that more than 50,000 receipts are overdue as of January and have decided to issue notices to all offices where there have been more than seven defaults,” he said. According to the presentation, in just December 2017, 1,178 offices were found to have seven defaults but no notices had been served. In case of 1.05 lakh applications, service was delayed (see table).
  
  
 
 
