Chennai: Playing your favourite game is enticing till the flow is broken due to an Ad. However, advertisers are finding their way to garner more eyeballs without seeming so obviously intrusive. Advertisements are now rewarded — giving the user points or access to the next level? App developers say that reward ads are bringing in more viewership after mobile data rates have dipped, thus attracting more users into gaming. Platforms such as Pokkt — which work with brands and app publishers — and Dollartune see 70-100% growth in reward-based ads for apps and platforms, with the engagement up by 35%.  An App Annie survey observed that in gaming 57% of game developers indicated that video ads or rewarded video were the top revenue generator among ad formats.  “Video ads within gaming apps generate significantly higher emotional response and involvement as well as recall value amongst the target audience, compared to other media. This was attributed to the heightened user attentiveness during game play,” said Rohit Sharma, CEO, POKKT, which works with Patanjali, GSK, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Amazon, Flipkart, ITC and Unilever.  Game developers see up to a at least doubling in revenues from reward-based ads. Besides a higher rate of completion, free to play games, which rely on ads for revenue, are banking on reward-based video or audio ads to ensure completion and hence, better revenues. “Ads are generally skipped because they are intrusive to the game. In this case, while the user is incentivised with increase in energy level or points upon completion, advertisers see better engagement and reach,” said Amit Goyal, a game developer and co-founder of SuperSike Games. Industry observers add that with Indians still not comfortable in making in-app purchases, rewarded ads are becoming a sustainable model for app developers.  While publishing happens primarily on gaming platforms, companies such as Dollartune award points redeemable at PayTM f for watching or listening to ads from brands on their platform. “Brands such as Hero motorcycles and companies like Future Group have partnered with us. By offering immediate gratification, we aim to get rid of the irritation factor associated with ads. We have over 2 lakh downloads with 62% of them active at any point in time,” said Raja Gupta, CEO, Dollartune.