Puducherry: The opposition   has sought   Narendra   to take appropriate steps to end the 'deadlock' between the   Kiran   and council of ministers of Union territory of Puducherry.

 In a memorandum submitted to Modi during his visit, the four AIADMK MLAs said 'hatred and disharmony prevailing between the LG and council of ministers' had paralyzed the administration and the 'interest and welfare of people has become the casualty’. “Lt governor being the administrator of the Union territory behaves in a whimsical manner and she interferes in all matters. She is self-centred and publicity-oriented. She is conscious of her own popularity and in the process undermining the authority and dignity of elected representatives. In short, she behaves in an autocratic manner,” they said in the joint memorandum.
 
 They blamed that because of her ‘unnecessary intervention’ in all works, many welfare schemes could not be implemented. Moreover, due to the ongoing tussle of war between the LG and chief minister, officers are in a dilemma as to whose orders they have to carry out.
 
 They requested Modi to take appropriate steps to end the deadlock and ensure smooth functioning of the administration.
 
 They also urged the Prime Minister to waive off Puducherry’s outstanding loan of Rs 2,200 crore and to extend financial assistance to release seventh pay commission arrears to the government servants. They sought Rs 400 crore assistance to modernize the ancient Anglo-French Textiles and resume operations in full swing.
 
 They sought for a railway link connecting Chennai and Cuddalore via Mahaballipuram and Puducherry along the east coast. They urged Modi to review the funding pattern of centrally-sponsored schemes. “Hitherto, all centrally-sponsored schemes are given 90% central assistance and 10% state assistance. This has now been changed to 60:40, which is causing problems in successfully implementing the schemes. This has to be reviewed,” they said.
 
 Insisting Modi to constitute Cauvery management board without any delay as per the order of Supreme Court, they urged him to expedite the Karaikal-Peralam-Thirunallar railway project, which was approved by the Union government as early as 2003, for the benefit of the pilgrims visiting the region.
 
 
