GURUGRAM: Several government schools in the city are in a dilemma as CBSE has ordered them to broadcast ‘Pareeksha Pe Charcha’, a programme where the Prime Minister himself will give advice to students on dealing with exam stress from 11-12 am on February 16 but most of them lack resources to make the necessary arrangements. 

 CBSE has issued a circular to all affiliated schools to make students from classes 6 to 12 watch the programme, which will be aired live by the national broadcaster, Doordarshan. However, many of the government schools do not have laptops, TV sets or computers and schools that have them, do not have network connections or other infrastructure. Schools have been asked to submit a two-minute video or photos of students watching ‘Pareeksha Pe Charcha’ as well as a four-paragraph report by the very next day. 
 
 Prime Minister   recently came out with his book — ‘Exam Warriors’ — just ahead of the board examinations, offering advice to kids, getting ready for the boards, as well as parents and teachers. 
 
 Principals of most government schools are now worried about how to show the PM’s speech to students. Usha Saini, principal,  , Nakhrola, said, “I have received the orders from CBSE but don’t know if we can show the programme to students. The school does not have resources to broadcast the show. We still have a week to see what we can do. This is definitely a worry for us.” 
 
 Sneh Lata, a teacher of Badshapur government school, said, “Our school has Edusat (where satellite-based educational programmes are shown) but we have to check whether it’s in working condition or not.” 
 
 Anshu Singhla, principal, government school, Bhondsi, said, “Someone broke the wire of our Edusat. I’ll get it checked and hopefully, it can be used on Friday.” 
 
 In the rural areas, many schools don’t even get round-the-clock power supply. Satya Narayan, deputy state head of Haryana Teachers’ Association, said, “All schools have to abide by this order. But there are electricity problems in some schools; what can be done about that?”
 
 There are 573 government schools in the district. District education officer Prem Lata said, “It is the responsibility of the schools to broadcast the speech to students. If the school’s Edusat is not working, kids will have to watch it on TV or computer. An order has been issued to fix faulty systems, immediately.” 
 
 
