MUMBAI: Additional chief secretary (housing) Sanjay Kumar has said in his deposition before the Lokayukta, justice M L Tahaliyani, that the controversial MP Mill Compound proposal approved by housing minister   last June was in blatant violation of slum redevelopment rules. Following a TOI report on July 12 last year, the proposal was stayed by CM Devendra Fadnavis.

 Sources said Kumar, in his deposition on Thursday, explained to Justice Tahaliyani the rules for redevelopment of slums and powers of the   ( ). At Tardeo’s MP Mill Compound, the slumdwellers had proposed in-situ rehabilitation as well as expansion of tenement size from 225sq ft to 269sq ft. The developer had submitted that in-situ expansion was not possible, but said he would provide 300 tenements for project-affected persons (PAPs) elsewhere.
 
 The proposal was in violation of Development Control rules, and if it were accepted, nearly one lakh sq ft of area would be available to the developer as sale component, that too at the same spot in south Mumbai.
 
 When the proposal was submitted to Mehta, he wrote on the file that the CM had been briefed on the matter and after a resolution by the society’s general body, the government would get tenements for project-affected persons. Following the minister’s remark, the housing department wrote to the SRA chief executive officer that any order should be passed keeping in mind the Maharashtra Slum (Improvement, Removal and Redevelopment) Rules as well as DC rules.
 
 There are 1,969 tenements on the land. Under the rules, it is binding on the builder to provide a tenement of 225sq ft; this was later increased to 269sq ft. The developer submitted that instead of the additional area of 44sq ft, he would provide tenements elsewhere for PAPs and in lieu asked for permission to retain an incentive area of one lakh sq ft.
 
 The then SRA CEO Vishwas Patil had submitted the developer’s proposal to the government for approval under rule 3(k) of slum redevelopment rules. But Kumar rejected the proposal, saying that under rule 3(k), the government has powers to give policy directions to SRA for development of slums, but there is no provision to grant permission for individual proposals. “The proposal submitted under rule 3(k) for MP Mill Compound was blatantly illegal and bad in law,” the bureaucrat said.
 
 After CM Prithviraj Chavan raised the issue in the legislative assembly, saying it was a Rs 500 crore scam, and demanded that Mehta be sacked from the state cabinet, Fadnavis then declared that the probe into the scam would be entrusted to the Lokayukta. As per provisions of the Lokayukta Act, the CM’s proposal for a probe was submitted to Governor Ch Vidyasagar Rao, who directed the Lokayukta to initiate the inquiry against Mehta. Apart from Sanjay Kumar, more than half a dozen officials of the housing department have so far deposed before the Lokayukta.
 
 
