PUNE: None of the victims of the cybercurrency fraud in Pune received ID or passwords to the website accounts of   or the  . 

 Instead, the suspects misused the website and their online accounts. In January, they deleted the website along with the account details and the company launched a new website with new accounts. “We don’t know what happened to our accounts. We have been cheated,” Nisha Raisoni (46) of Market Yard said. She invested Rs 16 lakh in August 2017. 
 
  
 It is now clear to the victims of the cryptocurrency fraud that the Pune police are investigating said the suspects wanted to cheat them. When restless investors sought to pull out, the scamsters did not let them and instead lured them deeper to make more investments in bitcoins.
 
 Those who were cheated in the two cases registered at the   and Nigdi police stations have now decided to help others approach the police by preparing their statements and collecting relevant documents for submission. In the next few days, 78 more victims will approach the police. On Monday, some of them met their lawyer Ameya Dange. 
 
 The Dattawadi police arrested Akash Kantilal Sancheti (27), a techie who is a resident of Satara Road, his partner Kajal Shingavi (25), and others in the case. The cybercrime cell arrested four persons in the Nigdi case.
 
 A total of 10 suspects, including prime suspect Amit and Vivek Bharadwaj, have been arrested. Bharadwaj ran Gain Bitcoin and his brothers and other relatives were partners in the company, police said.
 
 Dange said, “Seventy eight more victims will submit their complaints to the cybercrime cell. They have been duped by the suspects arrested in the Nigdi case. Also, in the Dattawadi case, three more victims have come forward.”
 
 Nisha Raisoni (46) of Market Yard, the first complainant in the case, said the victims will come together. “Many are approaching us,” she said. According to the cybercrime cell, the suspects have duped about 8,000 people in the state.
 
 Raisoni said she invested after Sancheti promised her 10% returns per month. “He helped me download a cellphone application where I was able to see the investment and the returns. However, he never shared the password or the login ID with me. After maturity, I decided to withdraw my investment along with the returns, but he promised that I will get six bitcoins against one in the next 18 months and told me to re-invest.” 
 
 Milind Kokate, who runs a courier firm near S P College, invested Rs 11 lakh in November 2017. “I was promised 1.5 bitcoins but never received them in cash or virtually,” he said. 
 
 Sudhir Banekar, a commercial artist, invested Rs 8 lakh after Sancheti and Shingavi sold the idea of cryptocurrencies and the profits to him. Banekar did not receive any returns. Sancheti also cheated his childhood friend Hemant Dave for Rs 2.16 lakh. “He won my trust and I invested the money,” Dave said.
 
 
