Vadodara: Some of the former cricketers, who supported the Samarjitsinh Gaekwad-led Royal Group, were formally inducted in the various committees and posts at the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) on Wednesday. The managing committee dominated by the Revival Group accepted the proposal to hire these ex-cricketers and utilize their talent for cricket improvement. 

 “All the proposals made by the cricket improvement committee (CIC) were accepted by the managing committee that was chaired by Pranav Amin. All the persons appointed by the committee will have to start their work from April 1 this year,” said Amul Jikar, BCA treasurer.
 
 BCA has also decided to shortlist one of the firms from ILF&S, Shapoorji Pallonji and VMS Ahmedabad for conducting feasibility survey for the cricket stadium project at Kotambi. “Leslie Fernandez has been appointed as Ranji selection committee chairman, Khagesh Amin, Connor Williams, Satyajit Parab and Dinesh Soni will be the other selectors,” Jikar said. Parab and Williams were earlier supporters of the Royal Group. “Their appointments are subject to undertaking that they or their family won’t be associated with any cricket coaching academy or private coaching,” Jikar added. 
 
 In junior selection committee, Rakesh Parikh has been made the chairman while Prayan Dave, Yogendra Wakaskar, Kunal Hazare and Umang Patel (earlier with Royal Group) will be the other members. Sunil Doshi will chair the sub-junior selection committee while Rohit Chandorkar, Rajiv Nayak, Vijay Vyas and Shashank Junnarkar will be the members.
 
 In women’s senior selection committee, Rajkumari Gaekwad will be the chairman while the members will be Milan Gupte, Ranak Shah, Santosh Kahar and Deepak Nayakwade. Atul Bedade has kept his job as the Ranji coach and he will now have assistant coach, Rakesh Patel apart from Himanshu Jadhav as batting and fielding coach. Bobby Badola has been appointed as MS University coach.
 
 BCA sprung a surprise by removing Vinit Wadkar as women’s team coach as the seniors team had performed very well in national tournament this season. The association, in consultation with Indian women’s team coach Tushar Arothe, has shortlisted three names including Devika Panshikar, Anju Jain and Shabini for the women’s coach post. 
 
 
