Bhopal: A tale of two schools in Madhya Pradesh exposes the rot in the school education system in the state. Students of a school in Tikargarh were shifted to the rooftop and write their annual examinations on floor to facilitate a volleyball tourney hosted by a local MLA.

 While in Morena district some 250 kms away, students were evicted from the school building to facilitate the stay of a marriage party ( ).
 
 Students of class 9th and 11th were made to write their final exams on the roof top of the school in Mohangarh village of Tikamgarh district from February 6 to 8 amidst the din of a volleyball tournament, dance and music organised by the BJP MLA from Prithvipur in the memory of her husband, also a former party MLA.
 
 The examinations started on February 2 and will last till February 26.
 
 Students of government higher secondary school in Mohangarh were made to sit on the floor to write their exams as the school furniture was also used in the tournament in which minister of state for women and child welfare Lalita Yadav was the chief guest. She was invited by Anita Nayak, the BJP MLA who hosted the event.
 
 Volleyball players who had come to participate in the Vidhayak Cup tournament were staying in the classrooms, converted into a lodge, students said.
 
 And, as if this was not enough. During the three-day event, cultural events were also held and they coincided with the exams timings.
 
 “It was difficult to remain focused on exam while girls were dancing on Bollywood numbers down stairs. Even otherwise it was difficult to write exam sitting on the floor,” said Krishnakant Ahirwar, a student.
 
 Another student Dinesh Ahirwar said, “in the afternoon, the sunshine is bright making it difficult to sit in the open.”
 
 When the local media confronted Lalita Yadav, the minister, she said, “I am clueless about the exams. I was not even told that exams were on.”
 
 The district education officer DS Laharia said, “No permission was sought to hold the event in the school. I have no idea about it.”
 
 Meanwhile, in Morena, the primary school students were sitting outside the building after it was vacated to facilitate stay of a baraat. The school is being run in a building owned by panchayat of Singacholi village of Kailaras janpad.
 
 When the incident was brought in the notice of district collector of Morena Bhaskar Lakshakar, he said, “it was wrong to cause inconvenience to the students. If this has happened, an explanation will be sought from the panchayat officials.”
 
 
