Pune: Five occupants of a car died and two persons suffered serious injuries after it collided head-on with a speeding truck in front of Police Training School (PTS), Khandala, on Old Pune-Mumbai highway on Saturday night.

 The Lonavla police said the   occurred around 9pm. The accident-hit car was registered with the Thane RTO (Regional Transport Office).
 
 According to the police, seven persons, including six women, were travelling in the car. Of them, five — four women and the driver of the car — were killed on the spot. The two injured women have been admitted to a private hospital in Lonavla and their condition is critical.
 
 Inspector Chandrakant Jadhav of the Lonavla City police said the identity of the deceased could not be established till late in the night because their heads and faces were smashed in the accident. The car, according to the police, was on the Mumbai-bound carriage way and the truck was going towards Lonavla. The vehicles collided head-on in front of PTS, where there is no road divider.
 
 Jadhav said a new resort, Rhythm, had come up in the hill station. All the deceased and the injured persons were employed there. The hotel’s official drop facility was taking them home in and around Lonavla-Khandala when the accident occurred, he said.
 
 Of the five women killed, four were from Sikkim and the other from Maharashtra. They worked in the spa, reservation desk and reception of the resort, having its registered office in Mumbai.
 
 The women from Sikkim had earlier migrated to Mumbai. “A recruiter from Mumbai had sent them to the resort,” Jadhav said. 
 
 The accident led to traffic jam on the old highway, disrupting vehicular movement nearly for an hour. The wreckage of both the vehicles was shifted around 10pm and traffic was restored, police said.
 
 Man dies in e-way accident
 
 Pune: A car occupant was killed, while three others suffered serious injuries after a SUV rammed into a car on Pune-Mumbai Expressway at Maval on Saturday evening, Kamshet police said.
 
 According to the police, the accident occurred around 6.45pm. The car was heading towards Pune from Mumbai. It slowed down to take a U-turn towards Mumbai at the spot. The car driver applied brakes but the SUV driver failed to stop his vehicle and rammed into the car from the rear.
 
 The Kamshet police identified the deceased as Bomi Mose (60) of Colaba in Mumbai. The two women in the car, both senior citizens from Colaba, suffered serious injuries. A woman sitting in the SUV also suffered grievous injuries.
 
 
