CHENNAI:   came out victorious against world No. 1 Tai Tzu Ying 15-11, 10-15, 15-12to guide   to a 2-1 win over   in   at the   here on Saturday. The last time Tai Tzu lost was against Sindhu in   where the Indian defeated her to make the quarters. Since then, the player from Chinese Taipei has been in rousing form and has won all the tournaments she played in 2017, including the Hong Kong Open where she had dashed Sindhu's dream in the final.

 But the Indian exacted her revenge on Saturday after pulling off a stunning comeback win in the first match which prompted even her arch rival   to sit in the stands and take a video of what unfolded in front of her eyes.
 
 Tai Tzu raced to a big lead early in the first game as Sindhu failed to read her deceptive shots and had no answer to her impeccable forehand flicks and smashes. Sindhu tried to find her range but the world No. 1 showed why she has perched on top of the rankings board for 52 straight weeks. Sindhu managed to collect some points off Tai Tzu's errors after the break and suddenly it looked like the world No. 6 was on a mission. She drew level with a forehand cross court smash from the baseline and from there on, Sindhu cruised. Even after winning a 26-shot rally with a forehand winner, Tai Tzu could not contain her opponent and the Indian won the game to thunderous applause from the crowd.
 
 Tai Tzu came all guns blazing in the second game and went into the break with a slender lead. It seemed that Sindhu was losing steam as she committed two unforced errors and Tai Tzu took advantage to make sure the match went into a deciding game.
 
 Sindhu came back with renewed enthusiasm but Tai Tzu once again pulled out impossible shots from her armoury to rattle Sindhu. The Indian put up a fight and collected two early points but Tai Tzu went ahead 4-3 after she won a 41-shot rally with a crosscourt backhand. But Sindhu kept on fighting and took a 8-6 lead at the break. Tai restored parity at 12-12with a backhand down the line shot on Sindhu's body. The crowd went delirious as Sindhu wrapped up the match after two back-to-back unforced errors from Tai Tzu. But Sindhu's hard work went to waste in the very next tie as Chennai Smashers lost their Trump match when Frenchman Brice Leverdez lost 15-12, 14-15, 12-15 to Smash Masters' Sourabh Verma. 
 
