Chandigarh: Even as the elected representatives and residents are fretting over non-implementation of smart parking solutions, the private firm managing the parking lots has shifted the blame on the Chandigarh municipal corporation.

 The civic body as well as private firm Arya Toll Infra Ltd, which was hired to run the parking lots, have failed to implement the smart parking solution even nearly five months after the parking rates were increased. Overcrowding and haphazard parking are a common scene at all parking lots.
 
 In reply to a show-cause notice issued by the corporation, the firm explained reasons for non-implementation of smart parking solutions and maintained that the civic body failed to fulfill its contractual obligations.
 
 The firm raised the issue of illegal encroachments in the parking lots and said that the   had to provide vacant possession of all parking lots to the firm. However, there are parking lots that are illegally occupied by vendors. The corporation has also been accused for failing to prepare layout plan of each parking lot, which firm claimed to have done at its own expense.
 
 The firm also highlighted delay in providing electricity connection in the parking lots. It also claimed that electricity connection, one of the key components for implementation of smart solutions, was provided 2 months after handing over the parking lots. Not only that, the corporation also failed repair roads and road gullies in the lots. The firm has claimed to have spent Rs 3 crore on structural development that was to be borne by the corporation and Rs 8 crore on the infrastructural development of all parking lots.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, municipal commissioner Jatinder Yadav and UT mayor Divesh Moudgil were not available for comments.
 
 Amid the ongoing tussle between the councillors and officials of the municipal corporation over hiked parking charges, members of the finance and contract committee (F&CC) on Monday agreed on move a resolution in the general house meeting to terminate the memorandum of understanding (MoU) signed between the MC and the firm. A three-month notice would be issued to the firm before annulment of the said agreement.
 
 BOX: More parking lots
 
 The civic body had invited tenders for management of 25 parking and one multilevel parking. As per the firm, there were sub-parking areas in all parking lots that they were not informed about. It led to cost escalation and delay in execution. The firm submitted list of 60 parking areas along with their reply.
 
 BOX: Illegal parking key concern
 
 To save money, a large number of motorists park their vehicles outside the lots leading to traffic congestion and loss of revenue. As per the firm, around 40% of vehicles are being parked outside the lots that has led to a loss in tune of around Rs 5 crore and termed illegal parking as the most important concern for the project survival.
 
 BOX: Contrasting reports
 
 The municipal corporation (MC) recently come out with two reports on management of paid parking lots in the city and both painted a contrasting picture. As per the 36-page report compiled by a four-member committee, the parking lots are being run smoothly, but a 290-page report prepared by the F&CC members stated the opposite. 
 
 BOX: Pinching pockets
 
 Since December last year, the firm was allowed to collect higher parking fee with a condition that all parking lots would be developed into smart parking lots. From April 1, the rate for four-wheelers were further hiked from Rs 10 to Rs 20 for the first four hours and Rs 20 for subsequent two hours. For two-wheelers, the MC increased the rate from Rs 5 to Rs 10 for the first four hours and Rs 10 for subsequent two hours. For bus, the rate were increased from Rs 10 (full day) to Rs 20 for first four hours and Rs 20 subsequent two hours.
 
 
