BENGALURU: While BMTC and   buses stayed off roads and autos and cabs demanded three to four times the normal fire, Namma   proved a reliable option. Metro trains ran throughout the day on Thursday, although it did not see huge numbers since it wasn’t a regular working day.

 The ridership between 5 am and 6 pm was put at 1.23 lakh, including 66,904 on the Purple Line (Byapanahalli to  ) and 56,815 on the Green Line. This was half of last Thursday’s (January 18) ridership of 2.46 lakh, including 1.43 lakh on the Purple Line and 1.03 lakh on the Green Line during the same hours.
 
 On Thursday morning, trains on both lines ran at a frequency of 10 minutes. “At 8am, a few protesters gathered at Majestic station, but were dispersed after intervention by the civil police,” said BMRCL spokesperson  . “No other untoward incidents were reported.”
 
 Security was beefed up at all Metro stations. BMRCL officials said they increased the frequency of trains to every eight minutes from 5pm to 6pm and later to six minutes.
 
 Many netizens applauded Namma Metro for running services without any untoward incidents. A tweet by a commuter, Srikrishna S, reads “Today metro services are amazing and my travel was very smooth in reaching Railwaystation at Blore. Wish railway’s should have played a caring role of sending message to passengers train is on time as bundh was happening (sic).”
 
 S Sandeep used the Metro to reach   railway station. “Namma Metro has become a life line of the city. I would not have reached metro station on time if the metro was not operational. Many autorickshaw drivers were refusing to ply and also demanding exorbitant fare (sic),” he posted.
 
 Vignesh, another passenger, posted: “Should appreciate metro team who made the lifeline service active during bandh. And police team too who escorts. It helped a lot (sic).”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Courts across the city functioned smoothly. Although the Advocates Association Bengaluru (AAB) had extended outside support to the bandh, it did not halt proceedings as advocates attended various courts. However, the impact of non-availability of public transport, especially BMTC buses, led to low presence of litigants in corts halls.
 
 
