GURUGRAM: RWAs in the city are contesting the deputy commissioner’s claim that no permission is required from the district administration for calling   to a condominium’s community hall to play music. They claimed that according to existing rules, permission was indeed required from the DC before playing of loud   music. 

 The residents produced copies of a Supreme Court order and affidavits filed by previous DC on a petition in NGT against noise pollution last year. The order and affidavits, they said, made it clear that permission from civil authorities was mandatory for playing of loud music. “There are rules laid down down by Supreme Court, saying playing of loud music after 10pm is not allowed and if it is must, a notice has to be issued 15 days in advance,” said Jasvinder Singh, a resident of Sector 70.
 
 However, deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap SIngh told TOI, “After taking office, I amended previous orders as giving permission for every function inside condominiums was becoming a cumbersome process. In fact, we had received several requests to change previous orders.”
 
 The residents produced a letter, dated September 5, 2003, from the environment department of the state government, giving the sub-divisional magistrate the power to issue permission in this regard. The letter, in possession of TOI, has been signed by D H Dhesi, then commissioner and secretary of the department. In another letter filed by then DC Hardeep Singh after a petition by city resident Shomika Chandhok in February 2017, it has been stated that permission was required for “special case/function”. “The affidavit filed by the district magistrate, Gurgaon, in the NGT case, Somika Chandhok vs Union of India, states that all police stations in the jurisdiction of this district should take action against noise pollution in any area - be it a residential or commercial complex. The order states that district administration had already imposed a ban on using dholaks or playing musice on loudspeakers and DJ music systems, in open green/landscaped areas,” Singh said.
 
 
