TRICHY : With   issuing a legal notice to V   asking him to refrain from using her name or portrait for his political moves, the   strongman on Monday preferred to call her his “erstwhile sister”.

 
 “Since a legal notice, which itself was based on hearing only one side of the developments, has been issued asking me not to use the relationship as well as her name and picture, I will prefer to call her my erstwhile sister. My political journey will, however, continue uninterrupted,” Dhivaharan told reporters in Mannargudi at the end of a consultative meeting with his supporters.
 
 Expressing relief for getting an opportunity to keep away from the family, Dhivaharan said, “It hurt whenever people called us ‘Mannargudi mafia’. The tag was sitting on my head like a boulder and it will no longer be the case. I feel light,” he said.
 
 According to him, he was subjected to income tax raids, just because he happened to be the brother of Sasikala. “My interests are more in religious activities and in being an educationist. As a research scholar, I have helped several youngsters earn higher degrees. I will be happy doing it and consecrating more temples in which I always involved myself,” Dhivaharan said.
 
 As for the legal notice, he said it was T T V Dhinakaran who was instrumental in sending such a notice. “He utilised his opportunities to meet   in prison to complain against me, without any valid grounds. He is trying to hit back at Sasikala using me and this is clearly blackmail politics,” Dhivaharan said.
 
 He further said it was Dhinakaran who was instrumental in O Panneerselvam revolting against Sasikala and her family. “Now, Dhinakaran has even questioned my mental stability. Will anyone issue a legal notice to a mentally disturbed person,” Dhivaharan asked.
 
 Dhivaharan also raised doubts over the legal notice referring to Sasikala as general secretary. "It has mentioned Sasikala as the general secretary – whether it is of the   or the   (AMMK). Anyway, we will not be using her portrait or name in future, and have decided to use the portraits of Anna, MGR and Jayalalithaa. I have saved Jayalalithaa’s life thrice,” he added.
 
