PATNA: Even as   is supposed to be an important instrument of poverty alleviation and plays a key role in the economic development of the country, it is not getting due attention of the planners and policy makers. Investment on water resources has been receding as the percentage of expenditure on irrigation to the total plan outlay has declined from 22.54 in the first plan to 5.81 in the 11th plan, said economist and Agricultural Prices Commission’s former chairman Kamta Prasad while delivering a guest lecture organized by Patna University’s economics department on Wednesday. PU vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh presided.

 Prasad pointed out that per capita availability of water in the country has declined from 5200 cubic metres in 1951 to 1588 cubic metres in 2010 (the water availability comes under stress at 1700 cubic metres) and the figure is likely to touch as low as 1140 in 2050. Ever-increasing population, growing urbanization and increasing per capita demand for water have all been accentuating the water crisis. The crisis is to deepen further with the impact of global warming and climate change, severely affecting the national economy.
 
 Prasad, who happens to be an alumnus of  , further pointed out that India’s multidimensional water development programmes have contributed significantly to the promotion of the country’s economic growth. Rapid growth of irrigation has substantially increased agricultural production. Hydro power generation has doubled during the last two decades, and this has accelerated industrialization and extended rural electrification. Water development projects have also generated tremendous employment opportunities.
 
 But, he opined, despite its pronounced impact on the economy, India’s water planning strategy has some glaring weaknesses: the failure to incorporate ‘indirect benefits’ in cost‐benefit calculations; the under‐utilization of water potential; and, the progressive increase in the cost of irrigating an acre of land. The prevailing institutional structure in India constitutes a major deterrent to the diffusion of the benefits of water development, he added.
 
 The vice-chancellor, in his presidential remarks, observed that the dwindling water resources owing to scanty rainfall in different parts of the globe (maybe due to climate change) are going to create a serious economic crisis soon. He called upon the economists as well as scientists to find ways and means for resolving the global water crisis and save the lives of the people.
 
 At the outset, PU economics department head D N Jha welcomed the guests. Patna College principal Ezaj Ali Arshad, former principal  , and a large number of faculty members and students were present on the occasion. 
 
 
