PANAJI: The fake news circular that came in for much criticism from the media fraternity and was withdrawn less than 24 hours later by Prime Minister   at least had one hard truth, according to minister of state for information and broadcasting Rajyavardhan  .

 “The media has created a myth that the Prime Minister is the whole and sole in-charge. That he doesn’t let ministers do anything, and everything is under his control. Now, (you know), ministers are free to take their own decisions. Of course, we interact with each other, also interact with senior leaders, but ministers in-charge of their ministries are free to take their own decisions,” said Rathore.
 
 Rathore, deputing for his senior I&B minister   at the GoaFest 2018 on Friday, said journalists asking tough questions of the government following the ministry’s fake news circular should first have a hard look at themselves.
 
 The ministry had said journalists accused of reporting or propagating fake news will lose their accreditation till regulating agencies confirm the validity of the complaint. The order needed intervention from the Prime Minister to be withdrawn but questions continue to be asked about the government’s apparent move to silence the media.
 
 “Let’s get some facts clear. In today’s time, no news can be stopped. If you want to do justice to yourself, you better put your version out as soon as possible. With the internet, with the vast number of Facebook, Twitter and YouTube channels, no information can be stopped in this country. Are we trying to restrict the freedom of the press? You are just trying to be the victim,” Rathore said.
 
 Rathore, an Olympic silver medallist in shooting, said politicians and journalists are now sailing in the same boat with questions being repeatedly asked about their credibility.
 
 “It is a fact that the entire journalist cadre is under a whole lot of questions by the general public. The moment I stepped into the political class, there were big question marks. Now, journalists are coming under that category. There is a challenge to journalism being true to what it was earlier,” he said.
 
 Rathore said the ministry’s decision to punish journalists reporting fake news was not taken overnight, and instead Irani would have had “certain vision”.
 
 “The Prime Minister overruled it and said the best control is self-control. That’s our stand all along. Everything is good,” the minister said.
 
 
