MUMBAI: Caste and other eligibility   submitted for admissions to professional courses will now be verified prior to admissions by departments concerned. After the fake caste certificate scam was unearthed last year during   and   admissions and many bogus cases surfaced throughout the year, the state’s common entrance test (CET) cell decided to integrate all certificates of students on a portal.

 The cell is in talks with Maharashtra State Board of Secondary & Higher Secondary Education for integrating SSC and HSC certificates on its portal before admissions commence. The state social justice & special assistance department, which issues caste certificates will soon digitize the process. As work on digitization is on, documents will be physically checked this year.
 
 Cell commissioner Anand Rayate said there have been cases of students producing bogus certificates that came to light after admissions. “Also for several years, students seek provisional admissions on the basis of applications made to departments. They fail to get a valid certificate at the end of two or three years. By the time their applications are rejected, they complete half the term in their courses. Such situations have been recurring. If all eligibility documents are verified before admissions, this could be avoided,” said Rayate, adding that they are trying to integrate data from all departments.
 
 Social justice department secretary Dinesh Waghmare said they have given the digitization work to MahaOnline Ltd. “It is not likely to start this year but we plan to physically check documents if the cell sends them to us for verification. This verification was done post-admissions when colleges sent us documents,” said Waghmare.
 
 Till last year, students at the time of admission, submitted copies of all eligibility certificates to nodal departments, such as directorates of technical and medical education. DMER director Dr Pravin Shingare said the documents were only checked by officers at regional centres. “Validity of certificates was checked later. It used to take few months for departments to revert to colleges. We are compelled to cancel admissions if their applications are rejected and if students submit fake certificates we initiate criminal proceedings. If the social justice department has manpower, it will be good to get documents verified before admissions,” said Shingare.
 
 
