BENGALURU: Assembly elections are looming and candidates are gearing up for a lengthy campaign season, one that is likely to be hot and dusty. Prospective candidates — both pros and novices — are taking extra care to keep fit and are paying special attention to diet and physical fitness.

 Chief minister   begins his day with yoga and sprouts and prefers green, leafy vegetables with chapattis for a meal. BJP’s chief ministerial candidate, B S  , continues with his 30 minute walk in the morning and his meals are light. He also drinks plenty of buttermilk and water.
 
 JD(S) chief, H D Kumaraswamy, who underwent an open heart surgery recently, pays special attention to his diet and avoids eating food from outside. One of his close aides said the former chief minister plans to carry home-cooked food on the campaign trail and he will have a team of personal staff who will ensure he takes his medicines on time and provide him with 'hot' tea, especially after every speech.
 
 While party chiefs focus on their health, other candidates have also worked out a schedule. Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Aravind Bellad said, “This assembly polls will be tough for us. Campaigning in these extreme heat conditions will be difficult, especially if you are not prepared for it. Some of us are already arming ourselves with umbrellas, sunglasses and scarves.”
 
 Some poll managers say the women dread the heat more than men do. Anjali Nimbalkar, an aspirant for a   ticket from Khanapur assembly segment in Belagavi district, said: “We drink a lot of water and don't eat or drink anything from outside, except for tender coconut water. We use sunblock without fail. We also eat light meals and keep away from fried food. All of this is to ensure we stay healthy, hydrated and energetic while campaigning in the hot sun."
 
 K E Radhakrishna, KPCC vice-president, said that while the last assembly elections were held in April-May — peak summer — this time it could be even more gruelling. “Temperatures are expected to be higher compared to the last polls,” he said. “We will restrict campaigning sessions to the morning and evening particularly in the north Karnataka region.”
 
 Candidates in Bengaluru, where the weather is not as intense as elsewhere in the state, are also gearing up for a tough season given that the city has been breaking weather records over the last two years.
 
 Bengaluru central MP, P C Mohan, said: “This assembly election is going to be hotter, literally, compared to 2013 both in terms of issues and temperature. But we have to brave the searing heat. We have already had a round of discussion on this at the party level. We plan to campaign in two phases — from 8am to 12 noon and from 4pm to 10pm every day.”
 
 
