When M P  , a former councillor from  , was approached for his recommendation for the readmission of a couple of students who were placed under suspension in a college, little did he know about the gravity of the situation. He thought the students were suspended for taking long leave. But the real reason shattered him.

 "The two boys were in possession of huge quantity of ganja. I was speechless and I regretted taking up their case when the college authorities showed the seized ganja," said Raman, a respected man in the locality.
 
 This was not a stray incident, he says as he himself has witnessed students accessing ganja at ease in various pockets of Madurai. "I have personally seen it in many institutions. It cannot take place without the support of the local police. They encourage the sales and get a cut out of it," he alleged.
 
 People’s Union for Civil Liberties ( ) secretary for   and  , however, opined that although it may not take place with the connivance of the police, they knew about it. Stringent action is needed to wipe out the ganja business, he said. Murali, a former principal of  , also corroborated the claims of Raman that school and college students easily accessed the banned substance. "Often the youths from economically weaker sections of the society get addicted to ganja. I know in some villages near Othakadai like Malaichamipuram, many children are addicts," he said.
 
 Higher police personnel in Madurai claim that they have been taking stringent action against the use and supply of ganja. Sensing the widespread distribution of ganja by a well-oiled network, district superintendent of police N Manivannan had in 2017 formed a special team to crack the ganja peddling. Busting a gang selling ganja in Othakadai recently, the police unit seized 150kg of ganja and booked 10 people. There have been several arrests and seizures of ganja in the recent months.
 
 The district police had seized 428kg of ganja and arrested 217 people last year. A total of 159 cases were registered for selling the banned contraband and five vehicles, including two bikes, were seized. In 2016, 142kg of ganja was seized and 137 people were arrested. Close to 100 cases were also registered. Apart from the district police, Narcotic Intelligence Bureau – CID is also making occasional, but bulk seizures of ganja. 
 
 However, according to activists, the seized ganja could just be the tip of an iceberg. The substance, banned under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, is available in various pockets of the district.
 
 M P Raman said if the sale was not stopped immediately, it would affect the generations to come. People also have to live under the threat of the ganja addicts, he said. The activists say that many crime incidents take place when the accused are under the influence of liquor or ganja. Once they get addicted, they indulge in crimes to secure money to purchase the substance, he said.
 
 
