Over the next two years, Tiger Shroff’s work diary seems packed with plenty of action, interjected by a dose of romance. BT met the actor, who is busy with the promotion of his next, ‘Baaghi 2’, to understand his game plan, what he thinks of his contemporaries and of course, his thoughts on a certain Miss Patani. Excerpts…
 
 
 
 It was physically challenging to muscle up and train in using weapons, besides learning various forms of combat. I play an army officer and I have tried my best to not let the real heroes of our country down. The team ensured that the attire and body language were always correct. Ronny is a complex character — he is more mature and skilled than the one I played in the first installment.
  
 
 
 I’m blessed to have an identity so early on in my career. Action is the reason I have found acceptance from people. Children, in particular, like the fact that I do stunts. Many parents have told me that their children want to take up martial arts like me. That being the case, why should anything change?
 
 
 I’ve always idolised stars like Jackie Chan, Bruce Lee and Sylvester Stallone. They are larger-than-life heroes. I have a thing for superheroes, I have always had a leaning towards this space. Action differentiates me from others in my generation of actors. I can’t dare to compete with them, but I’m carving my own little space under the sun here.
  
 
 (Cuts in) Disha invited me to meet him, which was very cool of her. I wish I had spoken more instead of behaving star-struck, standing in one corner and watching him. In retrospect, I think I should have been more mature (laughs).
  
 
 If I think about what could go wrong before I perform an action sequence, it’s bound to go wrong. Or, I will end up not giving it my 100 per cent, and I don’t want to do that. As an actor, it’s a personal high for me to give every scene my everything, so that the audience gets the worth for their money. It’s my duty to entertain them thoroughly, I have expectations to live up to. Why would anyone pay to watch my movies if I don’t give them what they want? That also means that I have to raise the bar with each film, so that they keep coming back.
 
 
 Sajid sir is like family. He launched me in the industry, and will always hold a special place in my heart. He knows my pluses and minuses well, and when I am working with him, I know that I am in great hands.
 
 
 He’s a lovely human being, but I wish I could work with him more often. I hope he casts me in ‘ABCD 4’, though I doubt he’s even thought of me. Main chota aadmi hoon. He’s taken bigger stars for his next, you see…
 
 
 In our film, Disha’s character drives the action. Without her, there is no film. You know, if either her or my role had not been strong enough, we wouldn’t have done the film. It’s not a usual love story, anyway. We’re distant lovers in the film — far and yet so close.
 
 
 Everything happens at the right time for the right reasons. Maybe it wasn’t destined for Disha to work on that film and it’s not our decision to make. It’s the makers who decide the casting, and there are no hard feelings. I guess it all worked in Disha’s favour because she did two good films after that — ‘MS Dhoni: The Untold Story’ and ‘Kung Fu Yoga’ with Jackie Chan.
  
 
 We always go around…all the time. Going around doesn’t mean we’re dating. You do go around with friends, right? I go around with my guy friends also, which no one cares about. Besides, have Disha and I ever indulged in PDA or anything. Today, I can say that she is one of those few people who I can trust implicitly and is very open, straightforward and honest. I don’t have too many friends and I don’t open up easily with people, but she’s an exception. And all this curiosity around whether our relationship is true or not is good for our film. People are eager to see our chemistry.
 
 
 I am too close to my family for that. They have given me so much, so, it’s not right to go away. And I get homesick if I stay away for too long. I hate outdoor schedules primarily because I miss my mom, dad and my sister too much. I can’t stay without seeing them. 
 
 
 Dad has such a vast body of work. I don’t think there is a single hero who can match his level of experience. Sanjay Dutt, Anil Kapoor and Jackie Shroff held the frame when they were in it. You couldn’t look elsewhere if they were in a room. Their charisma and X-factor is unmatched.
 
  
  
 
 
