UDHAGAMANDALAM:  ,000 families,  ,000 tribal families, from three taluks in the district have urged the state government to grant exemption to sell or buy land and construct buildings in the notified areas under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Private Forest Act. 

 The state government issued a notification under the act in November 1, 1991. Masinagudi Farmers’ and Landowners’ Association moved a writ appeal in the Madras high court against the notification. In an order on January 30, 2018, the Madras high court dismissed the writ appeal and upheld the validity of the notification. 
 
 Nearly 46, 000 acres of patta holdings in the three taluks, Gudalur, Pandalur and Ooty, fall under the TNPPF Act, promulgated in the Nilgiris in 1991. With few options available now, these families have once again petitioned the state government to exercise its power under section 3.3 of the act and grant exemption in relation to lands covered by the notification. 
 
 On the basis of GO Ms No. 2837, the then Nilgiris collector issued a notification under section 1 (2) (ii) of TNPPF Act, 1949, on November 1, 1991 and subsequently that was published in the district gazette on November 15, 1991. The notification covers an extent of 1,92,000 acres of land comprising government, revenue and ryotwari patta lands falling under the revenue villages in Ooty, Gudalur and Pandalur taluks. The patta lands alone account for 46,000 acres.
 
 President of Masinagudi Farmers’ Land Owners’ Association PT Varghese said the government gave an assurance to people in Gudalur and Pandalur areas on November 22, 1991, after issuing the notification. The government gave the assurance stating that the declaration of the ban on industry in the 5 miles zone would not in any way affect the normal avocation and livelihood of the people nor purchase and sale of land, construction of building etc.
 
 Varghese said, “Also, the then collector reinstated the assurance in a press release dated December 5, 1991”.
 
 Corfield, a retired forest officer and a resident of Masinagudi area, said, “The irony is in 2009, the then collector issued a letter to the district registrar stating that the lands covered under the notification were governed under the TNPPF Act and no sale transactions should be given effect to without the prior permission from the TNPPF committee. Now, one could imagine the plight of the people in the notified area who have purchased lands during the period between 1991 and 2009.”
 
 C B Madan, representing   said, “The government should have refunded the stamp duty received for land registration between 1991 and 2009. As on date, the government is accepting the property tax and land tax for the notified lands.” 
 
 In 2012, the associations approached the court with a writ appeal to amend the act to benefit the farmers and residents but the court dismissed the plea.
 
 When contacted, Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya told TOI: “The TNPPF Act is meant for private land holdings extending over 2 hectares. It was promulgated in the Nilgiris in 1991 with mention of survey numbers. However, in the meantime, sub-divisions and transactions took place till another order was issued by the then collector in 2009.” She added, “Their pleas were highlighted in the recent collectors’ meeting held in Chennai. And we are yet to hear from the government.” 
 
 
