GUWAHATI/  : Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s official website, www.pmindia.gov.in, is available in thirteen languages since the first day of the new year, with Assamese and   scripts getting pride of place on the website. The website is available in Hindi and English, apart from eleven regional languages.

  The regional languages which the website previously contained are Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada, Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil and Telugu.   and Manipur have now become the first states from the northeast to be featured on this list. APMO statement said this initiative is part of ongoing efforts by the Centre to reach out to people from all corners of the country.
 
 “It is expected to further enhance interaction between people from all parts of the country and the PM on various issues concerning their welfare and development,” said the statement.
 
  People from both states reacted with elation after the inclusions of Manipuri and Assamese on the website. Manipur chief minister   thanked the Prime Minister through a post on Facebook for paying special attention to the state. Assam finance and health minister   tweeted, “Delighted to acknowledge that website of @PMOIndia is now available in Assamese.
 
  With this, people in Assam will have better insight and access into working of PM.” Satyajit Das, a college student in Guwahati, said, “It’s great to have the Prime Minister’s website in our own language. I congratulate and thank the PMO for this development. I’m sure this is going to increase the reach of the message which the PM wants to send across through his website.” 
 
 Many people in Imphal hailed the inclusion of Manipuri, saying this will impart information about policies and programmes of the high profile office. 
 
 “We are so happy that our mothertongue Manipuri has been incorporated into the Prime Minister’s official website. We express our gratitude to the concerned authorities for recognizing our language,” said  , an Imphal resident. “Such initiatives will impart immense knowledge about the programmes and policies of the high office as well as the Centre’s administrative structures to the people,” he added.
 
