In the rat race of  , she’s not someone who would sign up for a film just for the sake of having regular releases. With films like Gangs of Wasseypur — Part 1 & 2, Dedh Ishqiya, Badlapur and Jolly LLB 2 to her credit,   has proved to the world that variety is the spice of her life and she enjoys juggling genres. In Kolkata for an event, the spirited actress took time out to speak to CT about fitness, diet, sibling rivalry, her experience of working with   and why she always chooses content over everything else. Excerpts:

 
 
 My latest film, Kaala, is all set to hit the theatres next month. It’s a Tamil action drama — a gangster film, also starring the legendary Rajinikanth. He is a real superstar. I had a great time shooting for the film. It’s really special.
 
 
 
 There is so much of work these days. But my primary focus is always on content. I like to chase good content and learn more. That’s what my attempt has been till date. I enjoy playing interesting characters. Short films are also a rage these days and I think people are doing great work. Even I have acted in a couple of short films. As I keep saying, if the content is good, the length doesn’t matter. Outside of work, I love reading. Besides, travelling is also a passion.
 
 
 
 Like all siblings, we too have our share of fights and arguments. It would be abnormal if we didn’t. Also, we believe in healthy competition. We push each other to give our best in whatever we do. 
 
 
 
 I played his daughter in the film, but even in real, life I would call him Abba. He was such a brilliant actor, who was admired not just in Bollywood, but in Hollywood too. Last time, when I was in Kolkata, we held a special screening of Viceroy’s House as a tribute to the actor.
 
 
 I had met Sri ma’am many times. The industry has lost one of the finest actresses this year. She has gone away too early. It was an untimely demise and I feel bad for the family as well.
 
 
 I am a big foodie. But as an actress, being a part of the glamour world, you need to have a fit body too. I believe in having a balanced diet. It’s very important to work out regularly and keep yourself healthy. I think Bengali cuisine is the best in the world. I love ilish maachh and begun bhaja. Whenever I come to Kolkata, I visit my friends and they treat me to good Bengali dishes. This time, I had to eat at the hotel. But I loved it. 
 
