HYDERABAD: The   on Thursday directed the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation and revenue officials to protect   in   mandal of Ranga Reddy district and not allow any constructions by realty firm   in the Full Tank Level (FTL) area of this lake. The authorities were also directed to prevent the realty firm from dumping construction debris in the lake and also from laying a road into the lake.

 The bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice K   made this interim order and issued notices to the municipal and revenue officials while hearing a public interest petition filed by Kasireddy Bhaskar Reddy, president of Janam Kosam, a non-governmental organisation operating from Serilingampally. “A firm which is destroying a lake for its business is using the pictures of the same lake for promoting its business with names like lake front and lake view apartments,” Kasireddy Bhaskar Reddy said.
 
 
  
  
 
 According to N Harinath, counsel for the petitioner, Aparna firm purchased sikham land abutting the lake from farmers. Later it approached the statutory authorities seeking their permission to develop a residential complex. “In the said process, they have been asked to lay a 12-meter road on the bank of the tank. Aparna took it as an excuse and removed the Full Tank Level, indicating boundary stones and also started filling up the tank bed with construction debris. The realty firm occupied 10 acres of lake bed like this and has also constructed a high compound wall around the occupied lake,”   said.
 
 The entire project consists of about 900 apartment dwelling units. “The entire drainage and sewerage is diverted into the lake. This is completely against the norms. It was a fresh water lake and a source of livelihood for several fishermen. The diversion of the drainage water directly into the lake would turn the lake into a big septic tank, which is an environmental hazard exposing the residents of the nearby area to various health hazards,” Harinath said.
 
 However, the counsel for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation said the tank land was not encroached into. The case will come up for further hearing after 2 weeks.
 
