With over 150 film releasing in a year, multiple stars from all walks of life and devoted fan bases, the   is one of the most dynamic in the country. Movies that come out from the industry have a very dedicated following among not just the people in Karnataka, but also the Kannadiga diaspora, who crave local content. Such a demand for online digital content that’s both entertaining and in   has led to the rise of many quality content creators who regularly release Sandalwood-related spoofs, roasts, live interviews and more, and the audiences seem to keep lapping them up gladly.
Here are some of the popular ones that have been making waves online, not just for their humour, but also for their creativity and freshness
 
 
 
 The digital channel has become a go-to destination for web series, short films, music videos, interviews and more, with interesting live web series such as Loose Connection, Joshelay and Dr Pal, as well as live interviews of film stars by  . The live interviews, most recently of stars such as   and Danish Sait which have become a very big hit with the audience, stands out for the way in which the team incorporates engaging background graphics, scene overlays as well as clever camera work, all while going live on social media.
 
 
 
 What happens when a group of like-minded people with varying levels of wit and coming from different streams of education and professions, but with a common love for providing entertainment in Kannada, come together? A clever name and even better content! Their trademark show titled Weekends With Suresh, a funny talk show which is currently in its second season, has a staunch fan following, but one of the videos that really got them noticed was   Pawan has HFPS Disease, in which the popular director is diagnosed with Hyper Film Promostion Syndrome, by Nagabhushan
 
 
 
 Founded by Vikas Pampapathi and Vinay Pampapathi, who are clearly very big fans of Sandalwood, the online digital entertainment channel has managed to connect with the audience using three interesting components — Kannada films, reality and humour. Known for their film-based video memes, the online channel has found a lot of success after their spoof videos such as Puliyogare vs Pizza, Beautiful Kanasugalu and Operation Thamanna. What’s more, they were the recipients of the ‘Best Creative Designers’ at Troll Awards 2017, so that’s got to count for something, right?
 
 
 
 Probably the very first of its kind in the Kannada film industry, Flat Curve came up with the idea to have a Kannada Film Industry (KFI) celebrity roast, and the first one was with director   and actress  . The duo, who worked together in the critically-acclaimed film Lucia, sat down to throw the choicest of insults at each other, often breaking into giggles at the other’s occasionally witty, mostly flat jibes. The bold concept with local stars is a far cry from the roasts that we’ve seen in the west and our northern neighbours, but to see such a thing even being attempted is a sign of good things to come.
 
