JAIPUR: Cornering own party government in the assembly over unemployment in the state, senior   legislator Ghanshyam Tiwari on Tuesday said recruitment processes for over 1.50 lakh posts in different departments were caught up at various courts due to government's fault. 

 Tiwari, who raised the matter during Zero Hour, said there were 8,54,119 sanctioned posts in the state but the government has abolished around 60,000 of these. Schools and hospitals have been given on PPP-mode, he said. The ruling party   claimed that of the 2.44 lakh government posts lying vacant, over 1.50 lakh posts of 52 different natures were not getting filled because of legal hurdles created by government over quota criteria. The government has collected Rs 428-cr in fees from the unemployed youth who applied for these posts, said Tiwari.
 
 "Unemployed youths who have been meeting me for past few days, informed me that the government was now not allowing them to even hold protests," Tiwari told the house.
 
 Responding to Tiwari's allegations, home minister Gulab Chand Kataria claimed that employment was provided to 13,28,762 people in government and non-government sectors in past four years. Of these, 1,69,734 people were given government jobs through   ( ), subordinate services selection board and government departments, the minister said.
 
 Listing government's month-wise plan to fill vacancies this year, Kataria said, "We will give employment to 95,667 people from February to December 2018." He added, "Recruitment against 9,055 posts in primary education department will be done by February end. Additionally, in secondary education department around 2,800 posts have been advertised and sent to the selection board."
 
 Tiwari alleged that vacancies advertised were getting caught up in courts due to government's changing stand on reservation for different categories. "Government changed the quota rules four times," the BJP MLA said. Parliamentary affairs minister   intervened and asked Tiwari if the latter was opposed to reservation for the backward. Tiwari replied, " Aarakshan sarvjan hitay, sarvjan sukhay hona chahiye (reservation should be to benefit all)." 
 
 The dissident MLA accused Raje-government of pitching communities against each on the quota issues.
 
 In a veiled attack on chief minister  , the BJP MLA said, "Just to promote a principal secretary in the CMO, all IAS officers were promoted one year in advance. If the government can be so benevolent to IAS officers, why cannot it be kind to the unemployed youth too?"
 
 Continuing the indirect attack on Raje, Tiwari said, "A Jhalawar man was made RPSC chairman for two-and-half month. What can a person do in such a short time? It is like playing a joke with the employed."
 
 
