NEW DELHI: The Airport Express Line provides   from the city centre to Terminal 3 of Indira Gandhi International Airport from which international and full-cost domestic carriers operate. It is only in about a week’s time that Terminals 1D (departure) and 1C (arrival), from where budget carriers operate, will join the Delhi   network for the first time. The new access, however, does not provide the kind of   connectivity or a travelling experience like the Airport Express Line does.

 
  
  
 The metro station at Terminal 1 is part of the 38-km Magenta Line, the second section of which is expected to open in a week and take the train further on from Kalkaji Mandir to Janakpuri West. The section has received the go-ahead of the Commissioner for Metro Rail Safety and the launch date will be announced soon.
 
 Unlike on the Airport Express Line, passengers on Magenta Line won’t be able to check in your luggage at the originating metro station. Since they will have to travel on the regular Delhi Metro network to reach the airport station, the usual baggage norms will apply, which means it is advisable to travel light rather than risk having oversized and heavy baggage turned away. DMRC is in the process of installing U-shaped barriers at X-ray baggage scanners to stop oversized baggage.
 
 At the airport station, the second part of the travail begins. DMRC plans to create a subway to connect the station with Terminals 1D and 1C with travelators. The subway, however, is still under construction in sync with expansion of the domestic terminals and will be ready, according of a DMRC official, only by January 2019.
 
 This lack of seamless connectivity means lugging the baggage to the terminal via a pathway. On reaching 1C, the TOI team found it nearly impossible to locate the route to the metro station as the view between the terminal and the metro station is blocked by barricades where construction of the subway is going on. DMRC said that signage for passengers will come up soon. “The signboards are ready and will be installed before the metro station opens,” a DMRC spokesperson assured, adding that marshals would also be deployed to guide passengers.
 
 The road from the arrival terminal to the metro station, however, hardly makes for a pleasant walk, particularly with luggage in tow. The road is broken at many places and there are spots where the baggage has to be carried. Also, bollards on some stretches hamper movement. While admitting that the road is poorly paved at present, a DMRC official said that it would be tiled by the time the station opened, making it possible to take baggage trolleys up to the station. He added that obstructions such as bollards will be removed too.
 
 The approach from the metro station to the departure terminal is more chaotic. The exit gate closest to1D opens in front of the ramp coming down from the terminal gates with vehicles zooming towards the station. The passenger walkway below the ramp is full of risks and requires manoeuvring through vehicles, mainly taxis, to reach the terminal building. This path too is uneven with the kerbstones being big obstructions to smooth movement. The DMRC spokesperson said that the matter of removing the kerbstone will be discussed with the airport operator, Delhi International Airport Ltd.
 
