CHENNAI: “Beauty lies in the eyes of the beholder” they say, and there is a reason for it.

 While a student may find a tough  , mathematicians find them beautiful — the same way a human being would find the opposite sex attractive, a process that’s biological.
 
 This is because the   for both situations are triggered in the same part of the brain and produces characteristically similar logical deductions, said Semir Zeki, professor of neurasthenics at the University College London, UK.
 
 Zeki was in the city on Sunday to deliver the 38th T S Srinivasan endowment oration when he explained why it is not odd for a mathematician to find numbers in an equation aesthetically pleasing. “When people look at something they find beautiful, a portion in the front part of the brain called the medial orbito-frontal cortex (mOFC) lights up,” said Zeki, adding that this portion of the brain witnesses increased blood flow due to the added buzz of neurons.
 
 Zeki defined conventional beauty as a code we are born with. “The brain has a template of how faces should look like. Any departure from this code and the brain concludes that the face is not beautiful,” he said.
 
 While aesthetics in art or music besides the opposite sex are what people usually appreciate, or relate to as being beautiful, Zeki said mathematicians used emotive terms to describe a formula’s aesthetic value. Zeki said he was inspired by the Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan to probe this aspect of beauty as visualised by number wizards.
 
 Over the six-year duration of his research, Zeki asked subjects to choose between a set of equations and classify them either beautiful or ugly. The subjects, he said, identified the Euler’s identity as a beautiful formula while Ramanujan’s own equation, which calculates the inverse value of pi(π) as an infinite sum, was identified an ugly equation.
 
 The result observed was that the subjects’ mOFC witnessed excess activity when looking at Euler’s identity in much the same way as an average person’s mOFC acted up when shown the picture of a woman deemed beautiful by conventional standards, or when made to listen to an elegant and moving musical composition.
 
 “The common experience reveals that mathematical beauty also belongs to the biological category,” he said.
 
 Zeki added that understanding mathematical beauty changed his perception about the concept of beauty itself. Quoting the British poet John Keats’ verse on the likeness between truth and beauty, Zeki said discoveries of black holes and gravitational waves could only be proved true courtesy of “beautiful formula”.
 
 
