CHENNAI: In a year from now, planning permissions for ordinary residential buildings across   will go  . 

 At present, people all over the state, except for Greater Chennai Corporation, seeking permission to construct ground plus one floor residential building within an area of 4,000sqft file their applications manually. This process would be pushed into the cyberspace as part of the plans to facilitate single window clearance for all building permissions, relieving public from the hassle of visiting the local body offices for the purpose.
 
 According to official sources, planning permissions for constructions in village panchayats, local bodies, municipalities and corporations could be provided in less than the stipulated period of 45 days. 
 
 “IIT Madras has already completed a study on system requirements in this regard,” an official with the housing and urban development department said. 
 
 A single portal to apply for all building permissions, including those processed by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and   and Country Planning (DTCP), would be launched. 
 
 “It would be the only portal, where people will be filing their applications for any approval seeking constructions irrespective of the areas located in any local body throughout the state,” the official said. After entering the details, the portal will automatically route the application to the respective planning authority or local body for processing. The online portal is expected to be inaugurated in another six months to one year, sources said.
 
 Currently, Greater Chennai Corporation is the only civic body in the state, which has completely shifted the online process since March 2017. As far as the town panchayats are concerned, the authorities process anywhere between 37,000 and 40,000 applications for planning permissions every year. “We have written to the DTCP for having town planners in town panchayats as the number of applications, particularly in those located on the city’s fringe, is on the rise,” said an official with the directorate of town panchayats. The executive officers of town panchayats will also be trained for issuing planning permissions online, he added.
 
 
