TRICHY: Students migrating within   need not submit migration certificates any more. This was to avoid unwarranted delays in issuing the certificate and following the realisation that the information furnished in the certificate was almost redundant with a  . The new system will come into effect this academic year and students need not wait for the certificate from their respective universities. 

 “We found during verification that all the details that a migration certificate would have are already present in the transfer and degree certificates of the students,” said secretary to the higher education department,  . “We carried out discussions with vice-chancellors and also director of school education but could not understand the purpose of this migration certificate. Finding it irrelevant, we decided that we need not insist on migration certificate within the state universities that come under the state higher education department. Orders have been passed after taking consent from the higher education minister,” he said.   syndicate recently resolved to exempt students seeking admission in the university department or affiliated colleges from other universities within the state from submitting migration certificate.
 
 If students had to apply for migration certificate after completing their course, they had to come all the way to the university to which the college was affiliated and the process was tedious too. “Many of the students have to wait for over a couple of weeks and even beyond to get the migration certificate. This is mostly due to administrative delay caused by the clerical staff,” said a staff member of the administrative wing of a city college. Delay in obtaining migration certificate often cost the students their seat in other state universities, Paliwal said. 
 
 The decision was arrived at after members of the syndicate of some of the state universities raised the issue with the higher education department. However, the rule is not applicable for those seeking admission from outside the state. Same is the case with students from the state seeking admission to universities outside the state. 
 
 
