ZIRAKPUR: Prime Minister’s Office has been asked to deliver this town from the muck it is in despite   Residents have approached the PMO, saying they have lost faith in the local garbage collection system and seen no sign of the countrywide cleanliness campaign.

 
 For the past five days, many residents of Zirakpur have been reporting the garbage-collection problem on the PMO’s official twitter handle and escalating the matter with its grievance redress cell. The tweets put a question on the central government’s Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. “Is there anybody in the ministry who can look into this mess, or is the Swachh mission mere hype? If the mission is for the entire country, why Zirakpur presents a different picture?” Kamal Jindal tweeted.
  
  
 
 Another tweet from Manoj Das of Gazipur Road reads: “See how Swachh Bharat has been murdered in Zirakpur. It’s all dirt and no swachhta (cleanliness). Sir, please look at the situation and decide if is this what Swachh Bharat was about.” Resident Navjit Singh tweeted: “What can be worse than the fact that the municipal council has turned empty plots into unauthorised landfills.” Getting no response from the PMO’s twitter handle, the residents also moved their complaint to the PMO’s grievance redress cell, alleging improper collection of garbage from Zirakpur.
 
 
 The municipal council doesn’t have a dumping ground, so its sweepers dump all the collected garbage at empty plots in the town. In their complaint, the residents have pointed out that this garbage chokes the sewers during monsoon and creates threat of an epidemic. The PMO acknowledged receiving this complaints and passing it on to the officials concerned. The residents posted a similar complaint on the  
 
  The Punjab government grievance redress cell responded on the same lines. Zirakpur resident   posted on the portal that the municipal council workers were dumping the collected garbage on the old Ambala road. The complainant hoped to bring the issue into limelight, even if it took writing to the PMO.
 
 
 Mohali deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra regretted that Zirakpur had no earmarked site for the disposal of garbage. She said the government had acquired 10 acres at   near   for building a solid-waste management plant but since another 40 acres was under litigation, the project had failed to take off.
 
 
