CHENNAI: Tenders for the integrated parking management system, which aims to ease parking woes in the city, will be opened on Friday. 

 Last time the   called for tenders, only one contractor showed interest in taking up the Rs 7 crore project, giving the civic body no choice but to call for tenders again. 
 
  CEO   said, "The parking management system is an advanced project which is critical to the development of the city. It will enable easy access to parking spots, while also generating steady revenue to the civic body through a fool-proof monitoring mechanism." 
 
  
  
 
 The project, which is being operated under Centre's  , is estimated to generate about Rs 40 crore every year.
 
 The civic body has identified 378 car and bike parking lots that will be equipped with cameras, sensors, image processing technology and digital signboards. Users will be able to book a parking slot through a mobile app. Once the parking management system kicks in, the corporation will levy a parking charge of Rs 40 for cars in high-demand spots and Rs 20 for other spots. The current rates are Rs 5 for 6 hours and Rs 20 for 24 hours.
 
 Two-wheeler users will pay Rs 10 and Rs 5 in accordance with the demand. Two-wheelers are not charged for parking now. 
 
 A corporation official said that the project is expected to be completed in about six months from the time the contract is awarded. Traffic officials make their job easier. A traffic official said, "When the project is complete, cases of users hogging parking spaces for long hours will reduce as the technology will ensure accountability." 
 
 The Chennai traffic police impound about 500 cars and bikes every day for unauthorised parking.
 
 A corporation official said that the project will be taken up in phases. "We will begin by implementing the project in congested areas like T Nagar, Mylapore and  . We will prepare the work plan after holding discussions with the contractor once the bids are finalised." 
 
 Once the project is complete, newer parking lots will be identified in future to expand the capacity.
 
 
