CHENNAI: In a few months, visitors will be able to get a near real life experience of being inside a dense forest while watching screenings of wildlife movies at   as the fisheries department is planning to open a   theatre at the popular getaway spot in the city.

 The theatre that will come up in a 600sqm complex will screen movies using the immersive technology by which viewers will be able to sense the surroundings of a scene that is shown on the screen or a  . The authorities are looking at 7D technology but is yet to finalise on it. 
 
 Work is in progress at the park and the theatre will have virtual reality and   dome along with an aquarium at the basement. The 3D theatre which is already functioning at the park is popular.
 
 A senior official of fisheries department said, “The civil work is nearing completion. Software installation will take three to four months after which the public will be allowed to use the virtual reality theatre. The construction plan is working according to the schedule”.
 
 The 600sqm building will have three types of concepts that include multi dimensional virtual reality, augmented reality and a dome where images and videos will be beamed for visitors. It will also have an aquarium at the basement. An official said, “People will be able to sense the chill when they watch a scene that shows a dense jungle. The whole visual and sensory experience will make people feel as they are in the middle of a jungle.”
 
 The staff at the park believe that virtual reality theater will increase the number of visitors. The park already screens 3-D shows which is been favored by the visitors just like boating. An official said, “We have five 3-D shows like `Into The Forest' and `Dinosaur'. Since it is summer holidays the park has got increased number of visitors. By May 20 we will add more movies to the collection that is being screened now at the 3-D theatre in order to engage the visitors”.
 
 Chetpet Eco Park is a popular getaway spot at the heart of the city which attracts 200people in the weekdays and 1,500 people in weekends.
 
 The Eco Park spread over 16-acre was inaugurated by late chief minister, J Jayalalithaa in February 2016. A few months after inauguration she has announced that the state government will set up a solar-powered aquarium and a virtual reality centre at a cost of 6.75crore.
 
 
