Pune: The significant increase in the number of students scoring more than 90% in their higher secondary school certificate (HSC, Class XII) examination, is likely to make the competition for college seats fiercer than usual say, educationists and experts.

 Last year, about 3,819 students had scored above 90%. This year, the number shot up to 5,486 — an increase of roughly 43%. The highest number of 90%-and-above scores are from the Mumbai division, followed by Pune.
 
 The biggest contributor to the higher scores is the system of awarding extra marks to students representing their district, state or country in various sports tournaments. Shakuntala Kale, the chairperson of the Maharashtra state board of secondary and higher secondary school, said, “Apart from the extra marks given to students excelling in sports, there is no other particular reason for the rise in the number of students scoring more than 90% in the state. The Mumbai division has seen a remarkable rise in this category.”
 
 While admissions to courses like engineering and medical are not solely dependent on HSC marks, the 90-plus scorers who want to join undergraduate courses such as computer science, computer application, management and finance etc. will have to face tough competition.
 
 “The cut-offs for science courses are always on the higher side. This time, since there are more students who have secured over 90%, the cut-offs are likely to be even higher. However, since the overall pass percentage has dipped, even students who have scored relatively less will be able to get seats. Although, it will be very difficult to get admissions in the renowned colleges,” said Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, the principal of Fergusson College.
 
 Dilip Seth, the principal of Sir Parshurambhau College, said, “Certainly, the 90% and above scorers will put a pressure on the admission season. It will be tough for students who will not get seats in their desired colleges due to the difference of a few marks. There will be competition for even a single mark.”
 
 
