At 57,   is super fit. “I’m a proud 57,” begins the Bollywood actor, who was in Chennai recently for an event. When we prod him to reveal the secret to his fitness, he says, “If I wanted to act like a 40-year-old, people would have called me old. But I’ve never wanted to hide my age or my white hair. I dress like a 57-year-old and behave like a father of two kids,” says Suniel. 

 The Bollywood star has fond memories of the city. “I keep coming to Chennai often, for events, but it will just be for a day or two. My connection with Chennai is all about cinema, the celebrity cricket league and following the legends,   and  . I’ve always heard people up north asking if I am from Madras, as south simply meant Madras for everyone there,” he guffaws, adding, “I shot Hera Pheri for 45 days in Chennai and the city has changed so much since then. The weather is looking nice and the infrastructure has changed completely.”
 
 Talk about his idols — Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan — entering politics and   is all for them. “The reason I am in cinema is because of Rajini sir and Kamal sir. Even in Mangalore, when I used to go to theatres there, I used to go bananas watching them. I learnt to act from legends like Amitabhji, Kamalji and Rajini sir. They are what heroes are about. Now that they have entered politics, they will still be my heroes. They are sincere, know their audience, hardworking and intelligent. Indians should be ready to accept intelligent politicians like them. And I will be at their doorstep, if they need me for anything,” he says. 
 
 Though he doesn’t really have too many friends here except for director Priyadarshan, Suniel says he does share an easy camaraderie with actors down south. “I meet them at events. I keep hearing great things about Tamil films, but I haven’t been able to catch them,” he says, adding, “I was on an unplanned break for almost three-and-a-half years. My dad was unwell; he passed away last year. During this time, something just snapped inside me and I completely lost interest in films. But I am glad that I took that break as I ended up spending time with my father. It was a blessing in disguise for me.”
 
 The actor is now back under the spotlight, hosting a television show and working on a couple of projects. After 12B, Suniel   hasn’t taken up any Tamil project yet. Ask him about it and he says, “I got plenty of offers from Tamil. But the problem is, it is always the negative role. And that’s something, I have never wanted to do when I am doing films here. People, here, believe what they see or associate the actor with a certain quality that is projected on screen. I have a nice following down south, which I don’t want to spoil. I have always told people that if there was anything positive that’s written, I will do. I want to leave a good impression on people’s mind. I have my daughter and son, who are in cinema and I don’t want to lose audience because of the mistakes I make.”
 
 With 50-plus heroes in Bollywood still having roles written for them, does he feel that Bollywood is being unkind to an action hero like him? “I don’t think so. I feel I made the mistake by choosing wrong films. I probably took my success for granted and didn’t plan my career too well. 
 
 Though personally it is a great feeling that I supported a whole lot of newcomers, professionally it must have been a wrong decision. There is Akshay Kumar, Salman Khan and Shah Rukh Khan, who are doing good action films. It’s unfair for me to say that Bollywood has been unfair. Whatever I did was never trash. I lost my career, but goodwill is something I held on to. I have never called people to feature me on their covers or interviews. Being away from limelight, people tend to do forget you. Luckily, I feel blessed to have fans who still write to me,” he says, adding, “Twenty-six years in the industry and I managed to do at least 120 films as lead actor. People stuck to what they were good at. But I took the chance to do comedy when I was ruling as an action hero. In my library, I can say I did an action film in  , romantic film in Dhadkan, comedy in Hera Pheri and patriotic film in Border. And these were top films in that genre. Coming from a non-filmy background, and with family who has never visited a film studio, I am proud I held on in a north-dominated industry.” 
 
 So, at this stage in his career, what kind of films does he want to see himself in? “It could be a father’s role, someone in uniform or anything — that has a solid role. My role could come for 20 scenes or 100 scenes, but people should give me a role, respecting the body of work that I have. I won’t do trash,” he says. On his kids in Bollywood and nepotism, Suniel says that nepotism has always existed. “Getting a break might be easy, but it is ultimately your luck and journey. In fact, it will be more stressful for them than anything else.   hasn’t had it easy. She made her debut, which made 45 crores and critics wrote it off as an average film. How do I help her now? We are always keen on looking at the negative side. It’s time people gave it a break,” he signs off.
 
