 is one of the most common career choices in India and the alarmingly high number of engineering colleges and students is the clear indicator of that. Looking at the number of colleges and engineers coming out every year, the questions that arise in everybody’s minds are, “does India need so many engineers?” Are they all employable? The negativism brought forth by such questions has crippled engineering education in India.

 Studies indicate that India produces 1.5 million engineers every year from 4000 institutes, which is more engineers than USA and China combined.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The ratio of the number of engineers produced in India is inversely proportional to the number of jobs generated for these professionals. Moreover, as more and more graduates are coming out, the supply and demand cycle is getting effected resulting in insufficient jobs. To clarify it further, many engineers are observed to change fields and opt for a masters degree in other fields just to get jobs.
 
 
 
 
 The engineering curriculum in India is more focused on theoretical aspect than the practical knowledge. Due to which studying the subject becomes boring after a point and gets stagnant for the students. A New Delhi-based employment solutions company conducted an employability-focused study based on 1,50,000 engineering students who graduated in 2013. The findings revealed only 3 per cent of the total graduates have suitable skills to be employed in software or product market, and only 7 per cent can handle core engineering tasks.
 
 
 
 
 
 The Indian education system measures the knowledge on the basis of exams only. Due to which the engineering students are bombarded with too many exams and assignments, thus laying less emphasis on learning and excelling in the subject.
 
 
 
 
 Though the number of universities, colleges and programmes are on a high in the country, the lack of quality education persists. The universities and colleges often fail to revise and update their existing curriculum. Resulting in outdated syllabus and old teaching methods.
 
 
 
 
 
 Most engineering colleges do not provide internship opportunities to their students. Due to which the students are often left baffled when they enter the corporate world and have to face reality.
 
 
 
 
 
 According to the reports, in Tier-1 cities such as Mumbai, Bangalore and Hyderabad, 18.26 per cent of software engineers are job ready, while in Tier-2 cities such as Pune, Nagpur and Surat, 14.17 per cent are employable.
 
 This shows that the candidates from lower-tier cities are not getting the same opportunities as those hailing from Tier-1 cities, even if they are equally qualified and skilled. The chances of finding a job for such a person is 24 per cent lower and the earning per-year salary would also be Rs 66,000 lesser.
 
