HUBBALLI: The pontiff of   in  ,   district, launched mahantajolige.org as a pilot in December 2017 to primarily encourage people quit unhealthy addictions like  . 

 As it turns out, the portal is also getting request from people who want to let go of modern-day addictions like  ,   and  . The mutt is planning to make it available in English. 
 
 Now available only in Kannada, mahantajolige.org received 40 queries in 25 days. Half of them sought help in quit smoking and alcohol. “There are two people who wish to get relief from the addiction of Facebook, WhatsApp and online activities. Three have sought our help to be relieved of porn-watching and one person has come forward to modify his behaviour of scolding his subordinates,” informed S V Patil, convener of the online platform who is also head at School of Management Studies and Research, KLE Technological University, Hubballi.
 
 Patil told TOI that the help-seekers are morally encouraged to get de-addicted which requires control over one’s body and mind. “We can just support them by sharing spiritual ways of getting relief from ill-habits,” he said.
 
 The CEO of a company has sought help in controlling his anger. “I used to scold at my subordinates even for silly reasons. Because of behavior, many employees, including four subordinates who were best performers, quit the company,” he said, adding that counselling is helping him.
 
 The mutt’s initiative also helped Ranjith (name changed) who used to spend almost 10-12 hours a day on Facebook and WhatsApp. “I faced some sort of problem after befriending strangers on FB. Then I joined here and sought relief. People in the mutt cleared by worries and built confidence in me. As per their suggestion, I spared very limited time on online activities,” he said.
 
 Guru Mahant Swami, the current pontiff of the mutt, said that new types of addictions like using cellphones, internet and watching television beyond the limit are emerging. “We aim to train people to use these new media for one’s welfare with certain limit,” he said.
 
 Vijay Mahant Swami, the previous pontiff, said that the online platform helps the mutt in expanding its   initiative without geographical borders.
 
 Seer’s initiative
 
 Jolige, meaning bag, is usually associated with seers who collect donations in various forms from devotees. Vijay Mahant Swami introduced   in 1975. As per this tradition, people drop the harmful commodities they are addicted to — like tobacco and alcohol — into the seer’s jolige. They take oath before the seer to quit the bad habit.
 
 
