HYDERABAD: As monsoon is around the corner, the Telangana Vigilance and Enforcement (V&E) department officials, who are checking the quality of 90 city roads, found that the reason behind roads getting damaged frequently is that the contractors use lesser percentage of bitumen than specified, leading to less durability of the roads.   ( ) on an average spends around Rs 475 crore on city roads.

 
 Bitumen roads get damaged every year during the monsoon season. And with commuters being on the receiving end, the civic body ends up being rained with brickbats for the pothole-filled roads.
  
  
 Following the findings, V&E department and   (MAUD) department has recommended that the GHMC recover money from the contractors and also take disciplinary action against GHMC engineers. Sources said in the most recent report, V&E department recommended action against 14 engineers of assistant engineer, deputy engineer and executive engineer rank for failing to supervise the quality of roads.
 
 A MAUD source told TOI, “Vigilance officials with the help of engineering experts analysed BT content of the major roads. As per the design mix, the BT content should be four to five per cent. It was found that there is at least 10% deviation in the BT content due to which the quality is compromised. Contractors use less BT content to save money.”
 
 V&E sleuths inspected roads in areas with storm water drains and areas without storm water drains. “Damage of roads is higher in areas where there is no storm water drains due to stagnation of water. But roads with storm water drains also got damaged due to BT content deficiency. Roads are getting damaged within six to eight months of being laid,” said a source.
 
 V&E sleuths also found that GHMC is yet to spend money on relaying the roads damaged due to   works. “Road restoration work can’t be taken up before the completion of   works. Frequent digging by different agencies, both government and private, is also resulting in damage to roads.”
 
 GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI, “We are yet to receive the Vigilance report. Once we get the report, we will take action. Recovery from contractors will be done. GHMC on its own is taking several measures to ensure the quality of roads. Regular inspections are being done by internal vigilance team and a quality control cell monitors the engineering works. We are also going to involve third parties like reputed engineering colleges. We are using multi third parties to ensure that there is no connivance. We have shortlisted the colleges and will empanel them. We have also decided to rope in IIT, OU and   engineering wings. There is four to five level check from henceforth.”
 
 GHMC is also working on software with geo-tagging and electronic recording system of roads from laying to maintenance to improve the quality of roads.
 
