VELLORE: An unidentified man, who was mistaken for a thief, was bludgeoned to death by a group of   at Parasumarampatti in   district of   on Saturday night. The Gudiyattam police arrested eight people in connection with the murder.

 Police said people spotted the  , aged around 30 years, wandering near the village in the night. Since there was a rumour that a gang of   involved in human trafficking and robbery was on the prowl, the villagers mistook him for a thief. They chased and attacked him with logs.
 
 The man, who sustaining grievous injuries, started to bleed profusely. Some villagers contacted the 108 ambulance service and moved him to Government Hospital in Gudiyattam where he died around 1am on Sunday.
 
 Gudiyattam police inspector Irudharaj and his team conducted an inquiry in and around Parasumarampatti village. “There is no evidence to prove that the victim was a thief. We assume that he was a man with learning difficulties. He might have reached Gudiyattam by train and was wandering in and around the town,” said the inspector.
 
 It was a case of "misunderstanding" and "mob justice," said the police and added that the villagers had gathered in large numbers and attacked him mercilessly.
 
 Based on a complaint by village administrative officer Muniyappan, the police registered a case under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (II) (if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt etc) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC and arrested Venkatesan, 46, Vasu,55, Dharman, 44, Yoganathan,42, Vinayagam, 35, Paranthaman, 26, Vinod, 27 and Tamilselvan,28, all resident of the village.
 
 Vellore superintendent police P Pakalavan said that if the public found an unidentified man or a woman moving in a suspicious manner, they should either inform police or hand him or her over to police. “The act of the villagers is a totally unacceptable act and a crime. We will take stern action against them as per the provision of the law,” he said.
 
 The SP added that they had been trying to establish the identity the deceased.
 
 
 
 A woman was assaulted by a group of people near Ulli village suspecting her to be a child lifter. Police took her into custody. She was taken to the Gudiyattam taluk station for inquiry.
 
 It may be recalled that a 19-year-old youth was killed by a group of villagers near Cheyyar in Tiruvannamalai district on April 22, mistaking him for a thief. The Cheyyar police arrested seven people in Sumangali village for stoning S Sadasivam to death and inflicting injuries on two of his friends.
 
 
