CHANDIGARH: A   (PU) committee under the dean, university instructions, Prof  , on Wednesday, has accepted the recommendations of another panel, which said that an overall similarity index up to 20% should be acceptable while checking theses for plagiarism using Turnitin software.

 However, sources said that the issue to check plagiarism in languages like   and Hindi cropped up in the meeting since the software cannot detect plagiarism for languages other than English. It was decided that the supervisors would take a call on the matter and would be responsible for plagiarism check in the respective languages.
 
 “The recommendations of the panel have been accepted. However, we have asked the departments and supervisors to devise a plan to check plagiarism in languages like Hindi and Punjabi since the anti-plagiarism software does not detect plagiarism in these languages,” said dean, university instructions, Prof Meenakshi Malhotra.
 
 This is for the first time that PU has specified the percentage. This implies even if 20.5% of a PhD dissertation is found similar to some other work, it would be considered plagiarised. The committee has recommended filters should be set for excluding acknowledged quotes, bibliography, matches that are less than seven words and acknowledged secondary data sources should also be excluded.
 
 PU already has a plagiarism policy, however, no specifications for the check using the software is mentioned. The committee has now recommended certain guidelines for interpreting the originality report for PhD dissertation. A meeting of the committee constituted by PU vice-chancellor Prof   was held on March 7 to study the issue of interpreting the Turnitin originality reports.
 
 The committee recommended acknowledged secondary data sources be excluded from similarity analysis and similarity with self-published work in journals and conference proceedings be excluded from the analysis. This has to be clarified by the supervisor and a note to this effect be added along with the similarity report, the committee said.
 
 
