MANGALURU: In keeping with time honored tradition since 1941, four prominent persons belonging to   and   were honoured at the New Year Awards ceremony by Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE), on Saturday.

 The awards, given for their lifetime achievements were bestowed upon: Dr M Shantharam Shetty, pro-chancellor Nitte; Kadri Gopalnath, well-known exponent of saxophone; Vaidehi, prominent woman writer of the country; and, Dr H Vinod Bhat, vice chancellor, MAHE, Manipal. 
 
 While welcoming the gathering, Dr HS Ballal, pro chancellor, MAHE said, “The tradition, established by the founder of Manipal Group, Dr T M A Pai continues even to this day. Initially, when he started the award ceremony, only one person was felicitated. But from 1964, it was decided to honour four persons and is sponsored by Academy of General Education, Manipal Academy of Higher Education and Syndicate Bank. Melwyn Rego, managing director and CEO, Syndicate Bank also spoke on the occasion.
 
 Dr M Shatharam Shetty: Pro Chancellor of Nitte deemed university since 2012 was its vice chancellor between 2008 and 2012 and Dean from 1998 to 2007. A veteran with 48 years of teaching experience, Shetty is a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons (England), Fellow of American College of Surgeons and Fellow of International College of Surgeons.
 
 Kadri Gopalnath: The saxophone maestro is among the top classical and fusion artistes in the country. All India Radio ranks him ‘A Top’. The Padma Shree awardee has made several albums which have a good blend of Eastern and Western music, there are classical albums and he has even dowriter inne well for himself in regional film music. A quote from Dr Gopalnath says, “Music is universal, music is forever, it has no religion and no borders”.
 
 Vaidehi: Janaki Srinivasa Murthy, better known by her nickname, ‘Vaidehi’ is a prolific Kannada writer with a variety of genres to her credit – short stories, novels, children’s plays, children’s stories, essays memoirs, novels, biographies and several other works. She is among the prominent women writers of the country. Several of her stories and plays have been made into films, for television and stage performances. Her writing have found a place in Kannada text books and anthologies. 
 
 Dr H Vinod Bhat, is the sixth vice chancellor of MAHE. With an   Medicine, he is an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow. Bhat has an illustrious career as a   His first love though, is research. That explains why today MAHE is among the leading deemed universities with a reputation in research. He provides versatile leadership to the university. One of his pet projects has been the   Press which in a short period has over 100 publications to its credit.
 
