KOLKATA: A handful of ATMs tucked away in the lanes and bylanes saved the day for Kolkatans on Wednesday — the first day of the 48-hour nationwide  .

 
 
  
 
 From   to   and Jadavpur to  , all major banks remained shut on Wednesday. While some had supporters blocking the entry gates with banners, shutters were down at some branches that only had a flag left on the stairs or a poster stuck on the wall. As for the ATMs, most of them had their shutters downed. Those with the shutters half raised had a security guard seated inside, not to help the customers but to ensure no transactions take place.
 
 The saviour for the day were few private bank ATMs that were hidden from public view. Although cash was not replenished in any of them on Wednesday, Kolkatans managed with the leftover cash.
 
 “I needed to withdraw some cash badly as my uncle fell sick and we had to take him to the hospital. But none of the ATMs were operational in Shyambazar. I checked in at five ATMs until someone told me that an ATM was still open on Rambagan Lane. I rushed there to find it operational. Without taking any chance, I withdrew Rs 20,000 at one go,” said Pratham Sengupta, a private firm employee.
 
 Most residents were, however, not lucky enough to find the ATMs that dispensed cash. “I badly needed some cash to pay one of my dealers but even after visiting 10 ATMs in the Esplanade area, I could find none. I asked the dealer to come next week,” said Bishop Ghosh, a businessman.
 
 Rajen Nagar, the general secretary of  , said that almost 98% of bank branches and ATMs were closed and most of the officers and employees had joined the strike. “The strike has been 100% successful,” said Ashok Mukerjee, the former deputy chief secretary of SBI Staff Association.
 
 According to sources, all officers above the level of chief manager had joined work, but it was not possible to operate all the ATMs following resistance from strike supporters. A small faction of the bank union backed by INTTUC, however, forced open a few branches and ATMs of Axis Bank in the city. Some branches of SBI were opened in North 24 Parganas.
 
 A branch of  , too, was found operational in the Entally area. “The strike supporters had come in the morning, forcing people to down the shutters. We had initially kept our shutters down, but after the men left the area, we opened the branch. Since then, thankfully, we didn’t face any problem,” said an official of the bank.
 
