CHENNAI: While the Pallava kings who commissioned the beautiful stone structures of   are well-known, the sculptors who carved these intricate designs have been lost in history. 

 However, a recent study by G Balaji, assistant professor of the C P Ramaswami Aiyar Institute of Indological Research, says that a human figure seen on the famous Arjuna’s Penance depicts the chief sculptor who created the iconic work of art. 
 
 “The sculptor is standing firmly with a chisel in his left hand and hammer stone in his right. The gesture of the sculptor clearly shows that he is busy chiselling the image,” said Balaji at a press meet in the city on Thursday.
 
 The monuments in Mamallapuram stand testimony to the generous patronage of the Pallava kings. Scholars have identified images of   and Mahendravarman I in the Varaha cave temple, Narasimhavarman I in the   ratha and   in the Arjuna ratha.
 
 Although the names of the architects are found in many important temples in Tamil Nadu, none of the Mamallapuram monuments bear the name of the sthapati (architect) or sculptor. The rock inscriptions in Poonjeri, once a village of sculptors near Mamallapuram, include the names of several sculptors believed to have carved the structures in Mamallapuram, but they do not identify who built what.
 
 It was in the course of his search for an image of a sculptor among the hundreds of sculptures in Mamallapuram that Balaji found one on the Arjuna’s Penance, an open-air sculpture on the faces of two great masses of rock. 
 
 “Among the interesting features found on the sculptor’s image are a headdress, earring and dagger, which indicate his importance. The headdress looks like some kind of honour given by the king and the dagger may denote a privilege given to appreciate his talent or the authority to be the chief sculptor,” he said. “The name Kavetapperumtachan found on a rock in Poonjeri may be that of the sculptor found on the Arjuna’s Penance,” he added.
 
 However, other historians and scholars disagreed with the finding. “We are yet to get a clear picture on whether the Poonjeri inscriptions refer to the sculptors of Mamallapuram. So, I don’t think this finding is correct,” said S  , a scholar who has extensively studied Mamallapuram.
 
 
