TIRUPUR: In a sudden turn of events, three members of a dalit family, which was allegedly forced to fall at the feet of non-dailts, were booked for allegedly abetting the suicide of an elderly gounder woman near Kangeyam in   district.

 Fearing for their lives, the dalit family was staying in an undisclosed location near   since the suicide of the woman on March 26.
 
 Besides three members of the dailt family, four others, including a non-dalit social worker who was supporting the family, were also booked. Police have arrested two of the seven accused. Five others, including the dalit family, are absconding.
 
 In the first week of February, one of the three goats of S Devi, 40, of arunthathiyar community, strayed into the land of P Saraswathy alias Sarasu, a gounder, at Theerthampalayam near Kangeyam. Following which, gounders allegedly convened a kangaroo court and forced Devi and her 19-year-old daughter to fall at their feet in front of her husband and son on February 15. So, police booked Saraswathy and four other gounders under the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015.
 
 On March 25, Saraswathy, 65, committed suicide at her house. Police registered a case as suspicious death under section 174 of the CrPC. 
 
 But based on a complaint lodged by K Tamilselvi, the daughter of Saraswathy, they altered the case to section 306 IPC (abetment of suicide) and booked Devi, her husband Sakthivel and their 18-year-old son. V Kumar, K Moorthi, Praveen Kumar and R   alias Shanmugasundaram were other four accused.
 
 A senior police officer said, “We are convinced that Devi threatened Saraswathy and demanded Rs 10 lakh to withdraw the case. We have three witnesses from arunthathiyar community to prove this. Devi and three other family members received Rs 25,000 each from the state adi dravidar welfare department once the FIR was registered under the SC/ST Act. They are likely to receive Rs 50,000 each if the case is proved.” 
 
 However, a dalit rights activist in Kangeyam said, “It was a tactics adopted by a few police officers to dilute the case filed under the SC/ST Act. While Devi’s family was almost ostracized, even from their own arunthathiyar community, the police could easily claim there were witnesses for such incident.”
 
 “We believe that Saraswathy could have faced the wrath from families of her co-accused since they have ‘suffered’ due to the case filed under SC/ST Act. Moreover, the police earlier said she might have been upset due to legal proceedings of the case and committed suicide. But now, they have turned the heat on the dalit family and its supporters,” the activist added. 
 
 “Police had pressurized the dalit family to withdraw the case once the latter received the compensation from adi dravidar welfare department. Moreover, R Kavi alias Shanmugasundaram of Puratchikara Ilaignar Munnani, a non-dalit, was also booked in the case. It all shows how the police are taking action in a biased manner,” the activist said. 
 
 When contacted, writer   told TOI: “It was not easy to make the police to register a case under SC/ST Act. In most of the cases, police ask both the sides to close the issue amicably. The cases, especially in grave incidents, would be registered only if the victims stand firm. It seemed, in this case too, the victims stood strong. So now, the police were trying to dilute the case by booking the victims themselves.”
 
 
