KOLKATA: Debt-laden company Binani Cement’s committee of creditors (CoC) on Monday accepted the resolution bid by UltraTech with an overwhelming majority (99% voting) after an almost six-hour meeting.

 
 Sources close to the development said the CoC would now submit UltraTech’s plan to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) for approval.
 
 According to a senior banker, who is among the lenders, the latest decision of the CoC is subject to court’s approval. He said that although UltraTech’s bid (Rs 7,600 crore plus working capital loans) was higher than that of Dalmia’s offer (Rs 6,590 crore), lenders would get their full dues in both cases.
 
 Bankers are not considering this deal as money in the bank yet because of the pending   decision.
 
 The lenders argued that the UltraTech offer will lead to no haircut for both secured as well as unsecured creditors. The NCLT had directed the lenders to consider the revised UltraTech bid and also give a chance to Dalmia Bharat group to match it. If the Dalmia group matches the bid, there will be a proposal for an open auction between the two bidders by the NCLT.
 
 However, the Supreme Court fixed a hearing on the   insolvency resolution on June 4, following an appeal by Dalmia group’s  . The lead lenders of Binani Cement include Bank of Baroda, Edelweiss, Canara Bank, Bank of India, IFCI, Central Bank of India and  , along with others.
 
 The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) last week had refused to stay the CoC’s deadline of May 23, 2018, for Dalmia group’s cement company to match UltraTech’s revised offer for Binani Cement. This paved the way for the CoC to conduct the meeting according to a direction of the NCLT’s Kolkata bench. The revised bid of UltraTech was of Rs 7,965 crore, while Dalmia’s bid was Rs 6,590 crore. The Dalmia group refused to match the UltraTech bid last week, saying that this is in violation of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC).
 
 Earlier, the Supreme Court had rejected Dalmia’s plea challenging the NCLT order, directing the CoC to consider the revised offer of UltraTech for Binani Cement and had also directed the NCLAT to hear the company’s plea without adjournment from May 22, 2018.
 
 The resolution professional had cancelled the CoC meeting scheduled on May 10 in view of objections raised by Rajputana Properties, related to eligibility of   under section 29A of the IBC, 2016, to be a resolution applicant for Binani Cement.
 
