The heritage structure of the erstwhile iconic Asilo hospital, Mapusa has got a new lease of life following a complete restoration at a cost of Rs 8.38 crore. With this, the structure that was established in 1945 sees a rejuvenated facade with restored cornices and mouldings. Within, the aura of an era bygone has been retained.

 In 2008, the building was declared unsafe and the hospital’s operations were shifted to its present-day premises — the North Goa district hospital, Mapusa — and the nearly three-quarter-of-a-century-old structure was taken up for restoration.
 
 Actual restoration work began in February 2014, and four years later, the building is not only unrecognisable, but certainly a sight for sore eyes, both from the outside as well as the inside.
 
 The old handmade mosaic floor tiles have been polished and restored. Where it was not possible to salvage the original tiles, cement tiles fashioned in the manner of traditional patterns have been fitted. Rooms sport polished window frames and are fitted with modern light fixtures. Two narrow staircases have also been preserved.
 
 Its exterior has been strengthened too. The building was stripped of its traditional lime powder plaster and coated with cement, a mason from Pernem says, marveling at the thickness of the walls and size of laterite stones used to construct the building.
 
 The false ceiling has also been upgraded with wooden textured polished planks and the tiled roof still gives it that local touch, project in-charge at Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation, Jude Carvalho said.
 
 The hospital in its heyday was recognised as one of the best in North Goa, and drew in patients from the talukas of Pernem, Bicholim and Sattari.
 
 The hospital’s foundation stone was laid in April 1923. On October 27, 1945 the imposing building was inaugurated by governor general Bernardo Guedes.
 
 Dr Florencio Mariano Ribeiro, a multifaceted philanthropist and Delegado de Saude (health officer) of Pernem for 14 years, who served as president of the Asilo committee, pushed for the hospital for the sick and needy of Bardez, even going door-to-door asking for funds. It was his contention that of all the urban areas in Goa, Mapusa was the only one that lacked a medical facility.
 
 He was the founder director and president of Asilo hospital for six years after its inception, which was then managed by a trust after his death, says his grandson, a surgeon, Dr Olav Ribeiro Jr.
 
 In his book ‘Mapusa - Yesterday & Today’, Domnic P F   writes that Ribeiro also prevailed upon the government to sanction the Asilo lottery. It was only from the proceeds of this lottery and with public donations that the hospital could be constructed.
 
 “The   and the efforts of its president Dr Jaime Valfredo Rangel granted an annual subsidy of Rs 6,000 on condition that the hospital should start functioning efficiently. This subsidy gave it the initial momentum. There were subsidies also granted by various village comunidades and finally the   granted an annual subsidy of Rs 10,000. The rest came in the form of donations from the public of Bardez, amounting to Rs13,000,” Fernandes writes.
 
 The efforts of Salvador Manuel D’Souza, who took over as president and professor Alberto Santana de Melo, as secretary, who requested for donations, also paid off and between 1948 and 1963 the bed strength increased from 26 to 72.
 
 One of the hospital’s surgeon-directors was Lisbon-educated Dr   whose active role in the freedom struggle in Goa resulted in his arrest and deportation to Portugal. Dr Khemani, Dr   as well as Dr Wilfred ‘Willie’   all served as directors of the hospital.
 “Pre-liberation, the Asilo was a private hospital which was always well maintained, administratively as well as hygienically. Post-liberation, it was taken over by the government and since then, things have not worked as expected,” Fernandes writes.
 
 Post renovation, the building will continue to be used to serve the health-related needs of the state, but as a training institute.
 
 “The building will be used by the directorate of health services as a state institute of health and family welfare where all in-service training for doctors, nurses and others involved in health services will be held,” minister for health Vishwajit Rane says.
 
