PANCHKULA: A local resident hoping to get hired as a government employee has ended up losing Rs 37,000 to fraudsters.

 Anil Kumar, 43, a resident of Rajjipur village, Pinjore, said he saw an advertisement in a newspaper on March 15, 2017, mentioning the hiring of 1,250 male/female district officers under Kisan Seva Kendra (KSK), Central government, with a salary of Rs 22,500-23,500. The advertisement stated it was government approved and gave two mobile phone numbers.
 
 When Anil Kumar made a phone call, the person on the other side demanded Rs 600 for an application form and gave a   account number in the name of one   for depositing the money. Sudhir Kumar in documents given to Anil Kumar claimed himself to be chief secretary, agriculture ministry, Union government, Nehru Place, Delhi. Anil Kumar deposited Rs 600 in the bank account on March 17, 2017.
 
 Later, two other persons,   and Ajay Kumar, claiming themselves to be senior officials of KSK called Anil Kumar and asked him to deposit Rs 12,000 into Sudhir’s bank account as fee for one laptop, identity card and 17-day training.
 
 The accused told him to deposit all his academic certificates scanned copies on their official account KSK7@gmail.com and KSK5@gmail.com. The accused asked him to deposit Rs 25,000 as a security fee, which, they said, was refundable after the training. Anil Kumar made the deposits in the hope of getting a government job.
 
 When after four months Anil Kumar did not receive any notification nor any update about the training, he visited the Panchkula KSK department and received a shock when he inquired about the 1,250 officers’ posts. “Official told me no such posts had been advertised,” said Anil Kumar.
 
 The two mobile numbers were switched off, said Kumar. “I had seen many people fill up the application form when I had gone to the bank to deposit the application form fee,” Kumar said.
 
 Kumar wrote a letter to the Prime Minister’s Office, New Delhi, after which a case was registered at the Pinjore police station. Police booked Kunal Kalra, Ajay Kumar and Sudhir Kumar under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC. Anil Kumar said, “I found that the accused had given similar advertisements in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and other parts of the country as well.”
 
 
