MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday recalled the non-bailable arrest warrant, it had issued on Monday against Rajmohan, police   of Kulithalai in Karur district for disobeying a court order. However, it ordered departmental proceedings against him by making it clear that the proceedings would be an extent of placing him under suspension. It also directed the additional director general of police (law and order) to file a report in that regard.

 Before that, the court ordered him to remain in the court till evening and ordered the disciplinary proceedings. 
 
 Two people – C Senthilkumar and K Ponnusamy of Karur apprehended arrest in the hands of Kulithalai police based on a complaint filed by one Meena from Tirunelveli. It led them to filing a case before the high court seeking advance bail. 
 
 During hearing, their counsel told the court that the petitioners executed a power of attorney in favour of one K Panneerselvam relating to a property to an extent of 131 acres in Seliyanallur village in Tirunelveli district in 2012. As the power agent died in 2015, the petitioners cancelled the power subsequently.
 
 While so, the power agent’s relative, Meeena lodged a complaint before the DSP in Tirunelveli in 2016 stating that the power agent had bequeathed all the properties to her family members by executing an unregistered ‘Will’ in 2013. When the issue was taken to the high court, the court restrained the police from enquiring the complaint by stating that it is a civil dispute. 
 
 Thereafter, the matter reached the civil court in Tirunelveli and the same is pending. In this situation, Meena lodged a complaint before the Kulithalai police who in turn registered a case against the petitioners and also started harassing them to convey the property to the complainant. 
 
 Following it, the court advised both the parties to arrive at a compromise by conducting a private mediation. However, the talks that took place on April 21 failed. Thereafter, when the petitioner left the court and proceeded towards Fathima College, Rajmohan and his team intercepted the petitioners and took them under custody. Later, he ordered them to come to the sub-registrar’s office, Gangaikondan on April 23 to execute the deed in favour of the complainant. Besides, two police men were accompanied them.
 
 The petitioners counsel brought the issue to court immediately on Saturday. On hearing of the entire episode, Justice G R Swaminathan ordered the inspector, Rajmohan, to appear before the court on Monday. But, the inspector failed to appear before it and did not seek permission for non-appearance. 
 
 It led the court to issue a non-bailable arrest warrant against the inspector. The court also said that if the warrant was not executed, the SP should appear before the court on Tuesday. It forced the inspector to appear before the court. 
 
 When the judge asked him about his mode of transport on the day of arrest, the inspector replied that he came by police vehicle. 
 
 
