NAGPUR:   Green Tribunal (NGT) banned nylon manja in July last year but injuries due to the deadly thread continued this festive season too, though it was less in number.

 On Sunday, three cases of minor injuries due to manja were reported at the   and Hospital (IGMCH). Like every year, NGO volunteers are busy rescuing and treating birds injured due to the manja. Some organizations have also reported mortality of birds.
 
 Two persons were arrested and nylon manja worth Rs 25,600 was seized by cops at different places on Sunday. The cops have conducted more than half a dozen raids in the last one week. 
 
 On Sunday, Shanti Nagar police arrested Jageshwar Bokde for stocking 20 spools of nylon manja at Raut Square in Lalgunj. Pachpaoli police seized 28 spools from a shop near   and arrested shop owner  . Both have been booked under relevant sections of the Protection of Environment Act and under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Wildlife veterinarian Dr Bahar Baviskar, who is also the founder of NGO Wild-CER, said that their volunteers have attended to over 50 rescue calls. “In most of the cases, birds have deep injuries in their wings or legs due to nylon manja. Different bird species like barn owl, cattle egrets, black kites, tree pies, pigeons, laughing dove and cuckoo have been rescued and treated from different areas,” said Baviskar.
 
 It shows that despite the ban, nylon manja was sold in the city. “We found it at many places like Ambazari, Telangkhedi and Gorewada,” said Baviskar. 
 
 When compared to last few years, the number of rescue calls has gone down significantly. “The calls would start post   and by Makar Sankranti, we would rescue around 300 birds. This time, it’s not even 100,” added Baviskar.
 
 Animal activist Swapnil Bodhane said, “The numbers have reduced but manja continues to be a threat. Not just nylon, we found birds getting injured due to glass-coated cotton threads too.”
 
 A few weeks back, Bodhane rescued some barn owls and cuckoo which were entangled in glass-coated cotton manja. “We could not save a cuckoo as it was severely injured. No matter what the type of manja is, it is perilous. Being nocturnals, owls are the worst affected as they are unable to spot manja hanging from tree branches and get themselves entangled,” he added.
 
 According to activists, the decline in number of injuries can be attributed to increasing awareness. “Apart from this, the craze of kite-flying is also fading among urbans. While campaigning against use of manja, we got a positive response this time. Even on social media, people are discussing it. But those living in the slums do not get easily convinced and continue using the dangerous thread,” said Smita Mire, founder of Save Speechless Organisation (SSO). 
 
 Activists feel the number of injuries can go up after the festival. 
 
 
