NOIDA: Even as nationwide bandh (which took a violent turn in several parts of the country as Dalit protesters clashed with police) was called on Monday by Dalit organisations to protest against the Supreme Court’s recent order, banning automatic arrests under the SC/ST Act, the   have written to Prime Minister   on Monday urging him to withdraw caste-based reservation in education, appointments and promotions and reject Constitution amendment bill for the same. 

 The industrialists maintained that while caste-based reservation in promotions on one side is promoting undeserving, hollow people to top levels/positions leaving a sense of frustration amongst deserving intelligent lot who are left behind, the Noida industrialists have urged PM Modi to abolish the reservation system and instead provide free and quality education to the economically weaker and backward sections of the society.
 
 Vipin Malhan, president of Noida Entrepreneurs Association (NEA) in his letter to PM Modi maintained that while reservation was built in the constitution so as to uplift the backward classes of the society at par with the main stream, the same hasn’t happened even after 70 years of independence due to various political compulsions.
 
 “The real backward people are still at the same level whereas some of them, who have become doctors, engineers, professors or senior officers are taking advantage of this system at the cost of their poor brethren,” said Malhan. 
 
 "The real backwards are those who are economically weak and are not able to provide for education and healthcare of themselves and as such are not getting any benefit of the lopsided system," said Malhan
 
 V K Seth, general secretary of NEA, added that caste-based reservation in promotions on one side is promoting undeserving, hollow people to top levels whereas those who are deserving intelligent people are left behind resulting in high level of frustration and negativity. “This is resulting in brain drain which is great national loss,” said Seth. 
 
 Citing Nelson Mandela (the anti-apartheid South African leader) who said that “destruction of a country doesn’t require any atomic bombs and long-range missiles. It can easily be achieved by lowering the quality of education and allowing cheating by the students in the examinations,” Malhan said. 
 
 “We have therefore urged PM Modi to abolish the reservation system and provide free quality education to the economically weaker and backward sections of society. All reservation in promotions should be abolished as once,” said Malhan.
 
 The   had recently banned automatic arrests and registration of criminal cases under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. This has not gone down well with SCs and STs, who said this will dilute the law and as a consequence took to nationwide protests and bandh on Monday. 
 
