PUNE: The state irrigation department has sought expression of interest from private agencies for constructing a 32-km-long tunnel from   to   to replace the existing irrigation canal, carrying water to the rural areas.

 The tunnel is expected to save 3 TMC water every year. It would also prevent water theft. The land above the tunnel can be used as amenity space.
 
 Addressing a news conference here on Saturday, minister of state for water resources   said many reputed private companies had sent expression of interest (EOI). The project proposal would now be tabled before chief minister   for discussion.
 
 “We are exploring this project and if it is executed well, it will save up to 3 TMC water. The cost of constructing a dam of 3-TMC capacity will be thousands of crores. Besides saving money, the project will also effectively deal with challenges like evaporation of water, seepages from canals and water theft,” he said.
 
 Water is being supplied to rural parts at present through Mutha canal. It runs through the city. It supplies water to rural areas along the   highway up to Indapur. Of the 30 TMC water stock in the Khadakwasla circle, about 15 TMC flows to rural parts, including villages, to meet the drinking water requirements.
 
 The canal always drew flak for its pathetic condition, leakage, fissures on the wall and water theft. Yet, it is yet to be repaired.
 
 Shivtare said the tunnel project would save huge volume of water — crucial for the city, especially after the inclusion of 11 villages. He said about 380 hectares of land would be available above the proposed tunnel. The irrigation department, Pune Municipal Corporation and  , along with the state government, could take a call on how it could be used for public amenities.
 
 The civic administration has introduced a pipeline to fetch drinking water from Khadakwasla up to the city. In another ongoing project, the administration is laying a pipeline from Parvati water works to Pune Cantonment water works. With the completion of this project, the city will not have to depend on the Mutha canal to meet its water requirements.
 
 
