CHANDIGARH: Despite stiff opposition, the much-hyped regulator for private educational institutions is set to get a nod from the state government to ensure that guidelines are followed on campuses in the state. The cabinet sub-committee constituted to look into the matter is expected to put up a proposal next week and in all likelihood will put it up in the upcoming budget session of the assembly.

 Sources said the sub-committee that included technical education minister  , education minister   and health minister   has held a series of meetings over the past weeks and arrived at a consensus over the need to have such a regulatory body. Confirming this, Channi told TOI, “The sub-committee will submit the proposal next week and if approved, it can be tabled in the next assembly session. There is consensus over the need for such a body.”
 
 The move to have a regulatory body had faced resistance from the managements of private universities as it would enable the state to put a cap on fee and number of seats in every stream, besides having a say in allotment of seats, fixing of eligibility for admissions, counselling and preparing waiting lists. The state government had reassured the stakeholders in the past that the move was not an attempt to usurp their authority and only an attempt to check commercialization of education and ensure quality.
 
 While a section of private universities have been opposing the plan tooth and nail, there are private colleges that are following the guidelines of regulating agencies, both in terms of infrastructure and educational qualification of the faculty.
 
 The debate has been on for setting up a state regulator for private colleges and universities and the plan was initially mooted during the previous SAD-BJP government, which passed acts in the state assembly to accord university status to 15 of the 16 private universities presently in the state. General secretary of SAD   has been demanding setting up of regulatory authority to control the fee structure and quality of education in private educational institutions.
 
 “Some of the educational institutes that have come up in private sector do not pay the prescribed salaries to their faculty and also compromise on their minimum qualifications. The result is that the quality of education suffers. At the same time, student strength is often increased arbitrarily and basic infrastructure is often found lacking,” said managing committee member of a private college that claimed to be following the norms.
 
 
