In the latest episode of   a new captain was crowned for the upcoming week. The episode started with some of the housemates gossiping about   and Rajesh's relationship. The 9th day in the house started with the song 'Jeevan Gaane, Gaatach Rahave'. For the past couple of days, the house has become a battlefield as the contestants have been fighting with each other. But this day was a pretty calm compared to the previous days.

 Usha Nadkarni's act of 'Aagicha Khel' entertained the housemates in the morning.
 
 Bigg Boss then announced that Vinit had repeatedly made a particular mistake in spite of several warnings. The mistake was that of not wearing the mic and Bigg Boss gave him a punishment.
 
 The punishment was that Vinit had to write 'Bigg Boss Mala Maaf Kara' which meant 'Bigg Boss forgive me'. He was supposed to keep writing this until the time he wasn't asked by Bigg Boss to stop.
 
 As Aastad could not stop Vinit from breaking the rules, he was asked to leave the captaincy.
 
 Then came the time for selecting the new captain of the house.
 
 Bigg Boss announced a task for the new captain's selection titled 'Captaincy Wing'
 
 Both the teams were asked to elect one member from them. As Team Resham lost the previous task, they were allowed to elect only one member, whereas Team Aastad was asked to elect two members as they had won the previous task.
 
 From Team Resham, she herself was elected and from Team Aastad, Sai and   were elected to play the 'Captaincy Wing'.
 
 All the three contestants were asked to hold the ring which was given by Bigg Boss. According to the rules, the member holding the ring for the longest time will get to be the new captain of the house.
 
 Resham gave up first and said that she is not running for captaincy. She said that she can play the game without being a captain.
 
 But Sai and Megha believed that leaving the task midway was disrespecting it. So they continued to give a tough fight.
 
  was the umpire for this task. So at night, along with Megha and Sai, Even he had to stay awake for umpiring.
 
 In the midnight, Sai wanted to go and pee, so she decided to quit the task.
 
 Megha finally became the captain of the house and even Sai was happy with it. There were no grudges between the two of them.
 
