NEW DELHI: India has made good progress in its weather forecasting system but its benefits still elude farmers and other citizens as the country’s capacity to predict extreme weather phenomena is restricted to the district level. The   ( ) will soon overcome its limitation by expanding its high-tech forecast facilities down to block level and extend its direct SMS alert system by adding 21 million farmers more to the network by July. 

 “We will begin to do this first for all the blocks in the 115 aspirational (most backward) districts as per the prime minister’s wish to put in additional focus there and achieve results on various fronts quickly,” the ministry of earth sciences (MoES) secretary M   told TOI on Sunday. 
 
 He said the ministry planned to expand the facilities to 6,500 blocks across the country by the end of this year. 
 
 The ministry recently commissioned its High Performance Computer (HPC) system — named ‘Mihir’ (sun) — at the National Centre for Medium Range Weather Forecasting in Noida for this purpose. 
 
 Besides helping the national weather forecaster predict extreme weather events at block level, ‘Mihir’ will help scientists arrive at high resolution seasonal/extended range forecasts of active/break spells of monsoons. Though India’s record in predicting cyclones is among the best in the world, the HPC system will further refine it through more accuracy and lead time. 
 
 Once this system is put in place, local citizens and administrations will get alerts about extreme weather events such as heavy rainfall and hailstorms with local variations within a block. Timely prediction will prevent casualties and minimise damage to uncovered foodgrains and horticultural produce. 
 
 Asked how the information would reach farmers and others, Rajeevan said the ministry was finalising details of facilities and would put in place an expanded SMS alert system with the help of private participation. 
 
 “We’ll finalise it by this month end and will be able to send relevant alerts to all citizens in a particular block from this year’s monsoon season. At present, only one lakh farmers in a district get covered by such alert system,” the secretary said.
 
 Currently, the IMD in collaboration with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is providing district-level agro-meteorological advisories to farmers through 130 agro-met field units. As a result, about 24 million farmers receive these advisories with information of weather forecasts on district level. 
 
 “These services will now be extended to block level by establishing 630 district centres with the help of ICAR. It is planned to reach out to about 45 million farmers by July 2018”, said an official.
 
