New Delhi: Following the SC directive to clear pavements and roads of encroachments within two weeks,   and civic agencies have decided to identify stretches where the problem is acute. 

 DDA vice-chairman Udai Pratap Singh told TOI: “We are yet to see the judgment and can’t comment on it at the moment. The judgment will first go to the ministry (housing and urban affairs) and, then, come to us.” He added that a task force to check encroachments had already been formed as per SC directions. “The task force will have on board officials and representatives from different departments and civic agencies. The primary role of DDA will be to coordinate with all these agencies. DDA will ensure that the task force identifies and takes action against illegal structures.”
 
 The Centre had recently told SC that it has proposed to constitute a special task force to monitor the enforcement of rules regarding illegal construction. The task force is chaired by the DDA vice-chairman and comprises the commissioners of the three  , chairperson of the New Delhi Municipal Council and the CEO of the Delhi Jal Board. 
 
 Civic officials will click photographs and videos of violations on GPS-enabled cameras as evidence. This will help identify fresh illegal constructions by matching GPS coordinates. EDMC mayor Neema Bhagat said: “We will take up the work on priority and, depending on the availability of staff, the work will be carried out,” Bhagat said. Kamaljeet Sehrawat, mayor of south corporation, said: “We will examine the court orders and prepare a comprehensive plan accordingly.” North Delhi mayor Preety Agarwal, too, pointed out that before executing the work, there was a need to examine the order.
 
 Traders and residents, though, aren’t sure how seriously the court directives will be taken. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Vypar Mandal, said: “Many orders were passed in the past, but they were never followed. We are hoping to witness a drastic change now.” BS Vohra, president of east Delhi RWA Federation, said: “The order is in public interest and we hope to see pavements and roads free from encroachment.”
 
 
