JAISALMER: Police caught a suspicious Pakistani Hindu   who tried to enter air force station in Jaisalmer on Wednesday by dodging security forces. A Pakistani passport has been recovered from him. Besides, an Aadhaar card made in Ganganagar was also recovered from him.

 The Pakistan citizen and his family members were residing in Ganganagar for past some time. Why he entered air force station, what was his objective have not been known and at present he is being inquired. However, the suspect is saying that he has entered by mistake in the campus.
 
 According to information from official sources, on Wednesday morning, some construction work was going on for which large number of labourers were allowed to enter the air force station. Among these labourers, a suspicious person dodged the security personnel deployed there and entered into the premises. The security personnel saw him on which he tried to run away and was immediately caught. 
 
 Sources said that on inquiring him, he told his name to be Purkha Ram resident of 23GB in Vijaynagar tehsil of Ganganagar district. an aadhaar card in the same name was recovered from him. apart from this, a pakistani passport was recovered from which on which the name of was and address was 441P, Bismikpur, khanpur tehsil, rahimiyarkhan district, Pakistan. on passport the date of issuing visa was May 29 2005 which clearly states that he is Pak resident and came to India on June 2005.
 
 In the inquiry, he told that he was Pak citizen and after coming to India in 2005, he did not get citizenship and he was residing in Ganganagar on long term visa and his family is residing here for last many years. 
 
 Sources said that he is being intensively inquired as how he got his aadhaar card made where he did not get Indian citizenship. At present he is being inquired and handed over to  .
 
 It is to be mentioned that jaisalmer air force station is on top hit list of ISI and makes efforts to know the information about the air force station and because of that extra alertness and vigil has been maintained in   station. On tuesday too, a suspicious indian citizen was caught who had entered air force station and resident of   is being inquired. 
 
 SP   confirming about Pak citizen caught at air force station said he was caught entering into the air force station. Pak passport and aadhaar card have been recovered from him. he is being inquired to know why he entered into air force station, his objective, as of now no information has been known about this and inquiry is on. 
 
 SHO Kotwali Deraver Singh said in the initial interrogation suspected Purkha Ram said he donot have road idea and by mistakenly he entered in airforce station. Deraver Singh said the joint interrogation of security agencies has been going on.
 
 
