NEW DELHI: The CBI on Tuesday arrested five senior executives of companies belonging to billionaire   and his uncle   - including  , president (finance) of Firestar International.

 
 Kavita Mankikar, authorised signatory of Firestar, and Kapil Khandelwal, chief financial officer of   and Gitanjali group, were among those arrested.
 
 Vipul Ambani is the son of Natubhai Ambani, the youngest brother of Dhirubhai Ambani. Official sources said Vipul, who handled Firestar's financial operations, was in the know of things. He was questioned for two days before being arrested. The CBI also questioned an executive director rank officer of PNB, whose name it refused to divulge.
 
 The others arrested on Tuesday were Arjun Patil, a senior executive in Firestar; and Niten Shahi, a manager in Gitanjali group. The five executives were called to CBI's Mumbai office in the morning and were taken into custody after several hours of questioning. They will be produced in a CBI court in Mumbai on Wednesday.
 
  
  
 
 The agency has so far arrested 11 persons including six PNB officials. Sources said there was strong documentary evidence of "connivance" against all those who have been arrested. "The bank officials and corporate executives were part of the process where 293 Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) and 224 Foreign Letters of Credit (FLCs) were illegally issued and encashed in foreign countries," an officer said.
 
 Nine other senior PNB officers and 18 employees of Firestar, Gitanjali and Gili, companies run by Modi and Choksi, were also examined and confronted with documents collected in raids.
 
 Nirav's farmhouse in Alibagh, with a palatial bungalow, was also searched.
 
 Sources said the arrested PNB officials - Bechhu Tiwari (chief manager), Yashwant Joshi and Praful Sawant (responsible for Swift transactions in PNB's Brady House branch) - had laid the entire blame on Gokul Nath Shetty (retired deputy manager) and ManojKharat.
 
 Tiwari, Joshi and Sawant were responsible for cross-checking and verifying messages sent through Swift and uploading them on the bank's core banking solutions system (CBS) on a daily basis which they allegedly did not do.
 
 Tiwari, sources said, was chief manager in the forex department between 2015 and 2017 but did not monitor the fraudulent and illegal LoUs which Shetty continued issuing.
 
 "Even though Tiwari issued circulars for keeping a check on LoUs, he turned a blind eye on Shetty's activities," said an officer.
 
 The CBI found that Shetty was bypassing the CBC for the past seven years and was issuing LoUs fraudulently.
 
