Railway board has accelerated the process of segregating the activities of   into core and non-core and handing over a section of work to private entities, inviting protests from the trade unions. A board notification issued in April empowers general managers (GM) and divisional railway managers (DRM) to identify private agencies and entrust them non-core responsibilities and the process has been set in motion.

 Trade unions have been quick to slam the ministry’s move alleging that it will be a threat to the safety and security of railway property. They also expressed apprehensions that it may spawn corruption in the public transport behemoth and asked it to fill vacancies instead. The unions see the move as an extension of the privatisation mantra of the government which had spurred the railways to withdraw from running schools and hospitals. 
 
 "Railway is going to privatise the security work in stations as they did in hospitals and schools as part of implementing the recommendations of  . This is to cut annual expenses on security to the tune of Rs 3,434 crore across the country", said the deputy general secretary of   (DREU) D Manoharan. 
 
 On the other hand, officials say there is tremendous burden on the RPF personnel which necessitates segregation of work into core and non-core areas of railway security and handing over of the latter to outside agencies. This would help RPF personnel utilise the available resources to the best possible extent in core areas of security.
 
 According to available data, out of 1.3 million employees within Group C and D, there were 57,312 RPF and Railway Protection Special Force (RPSF) personnel working with Indian Railways. A report issued on February 8 last year on vulnerable and identified routes or sections said that 2,500 trains on an average were escorted by RPF every day. This was in addition to 2,200 escorted by Government Railway Police (GRP) of different states daily. It was this context that the railway board decided to hand over certain responsibilities in the non-core area to private agencies.
 
 As per the notification issued on April 9, the board has allowed GMs and DRMs to engage home guards or private security agencies to be entrusted non-core activities, which are now vested with RPF personnel. 
 
 General managers can engage government security agencies like home guards, Maharashtra Industrial Security Force etc in core areas of railway security depending on the vacancy in RPF. Divisional railway managers are empowered to engage home guards for non-core activities on station premises and circulating area to meet the demand of extra security personnel to handle passenger rush in consultation with senior divisional security commissioner for a period of up to 90 days. Beyond that, DRMs have to seek the approval of the general manager, the notification added.
 
 General managers may engage government security agencies or private security agency against existing vacancies of RPF for Non-core areas, the Executive Director / Transformation,   stated in the letter. "When private agencies are given licence for guarding certain places, the work rendered by them will not be on par with that of RPF personnel", added DREU’s D Manoharan. According to H Ghouse Baig, adviser,  , railway ministry must fill the existing vacancies instead of going for privatisation. 
 
 "When GMs and DRMs are asked to find private agencies to delegate work, there will be room for malpractices in award of contracts. Railways cannot compromise on security issues", he added.
 
 
