MUMBAI: Fifty-two families and around 100 workers had a narrow escape when a fire broke out in an illegal   in the basement of the six-storey   near   in   on Friday afternoon. Around 10 residents sustained minor injuries while rushing out of the narrow entrance on seeing smoke spreading. 

 The fire erupted in one of the three illegal units in the parking-turned-godowns on 5,000-odd sq ft area in the basement. After dousing the fire,   workers brought out thousands of mobile phone batteries, cables and covers from a godown and dumped them in the building compound, which is adjacent to Anjuman-I-Islam girls’ high school.
 
 Pointing at the charred gadgets, residents told TOI a tragedy was waiting to happen as complaints to BMC have fallen on deaf ears. “In 2013, we wrote to the fire department, BMC and police about illegal godowns. While the fire brigade agreed with us, BMC did not,” said Rizwan Khan, a resident. Zia Apartment, built in 1984, has two wings—one is ground-plus-six-storey and the other is ground-plus-seven-storey— with the ground floor housing shops.
 
  
  
 
 “The developer, Yusuf Patel, did not hand over the basement parking space to the residents and it was locked for many years. The parking space of A wing was sold to three persons, one of them is a tenant who runs a manpower recruiting office on the ground floor. A zari unit, a mobile accessories godown and a garment godown also came up in the basement around 10 years ago,” said a resident. The wall,constructed in the basement to divide it into parking and godown, was demolished by BMC in the evening. Around 100 workers rushed out of the basement when the fire broke out, sources said.
 
 Late Congress minister and Manipur governor Syed Ahmed had his office in this building where his son sits now. Rasheed Hawa, a member of the building society, said mobile accessories of some shops in the nearby mall were kept in the basement. 
 
 “Most of us were preparing for Friday namaz and suddenly we heard people shouting that there’s a fire,” said a resident. Soon after receiving a call at 12.16 pm, the fire brigade reached the spot and put out the blaze within half an hour of operations. A portion of the ground floor wall was broken to spray water into the basement. Nine ambulances also reached the spot and emergency on-scene care was provided to 10 persons for injuries, including abrasion and minor burns.
 
 Iqbal Tanwar (49), who had come from Rajasthan for cancer treatment, was staying with his relatives. “I panicked when saw smoke spreading. I was on the second floor. It was difficult for me to climb down since the smoke was spreading,” said Tanwar, who underwent a surgery two months ago. Some youths said soon after the fire, the power supply was shut. “Four persons, including three senior citizens, were in the elevator and its door got locked. We went upstairs and opened the door to rescue them,” said a youth. As power supply was not restored till late in the night, residents started to look for shelter in relatives’ homes and hotels.
 
 The Nagpada police said they rescued the residents and any police action would depend on the fire brigade’s report.
 
 
