GUWAHATI: As part of the Centre's Rs 15,000-crore plan to boost telecom connectivity in the northeast, the telecom ministry will set up more than 2,000 cellphone towers across  , expanding cellular connectivity right up to the  . The project will be taken up as part of BharatNet, a Digital India initiative which aims at expanding affordable broadband coverage. 

 Union minister of state for communications Manoj Sinha was in the city on Tuesday to take part in a conference to review the implementation of BharatNet and other major telecom projects in the region. Given the strategic importance of the northeast, Sinha said, as well as the poor connectivity in a number of areas in remote hilly locations, the Telecom Commission has approved a comprehensive strategy to implement BharatNet in the northeast. 
 
 "By December 2018, a total of 4,240 gram panchayats in the northeast will be on the broadband map through satellite connectivity. The estimated cost for this stands at Rs 733 crore," Sinha said. There are a total of 12,017 gram panchayats in the eight states of the northeast, of which 7,338 were taken up in the first phase. Last year, in a meeting attended by Arunachal Pradesh chief minister  , the cabinet approved a modified strategy for the second phase of expanding telecom connectivity - through state-led and private sector models.
 
 Besides, 6,673 towers will be set up across the region, providing connectivity to 8,621 villages, under the   for the Northeast Region at a cost of Rs 5,336 crore, Sinha said. He added that a detailed memorandum of understanding had been signed by telecom provider   and the Universal Service Obligation Fund (USOF) in December last year. Under the agreement, BSNL will set up 2,817 mobile towers in Arunachal Pradesh and two districts of Assam while Bharti Airtel will undertake work to set up 2,004 towers in the six other states. The project is to be completed in 18 months.
 
 "The total planned cost of all USOF projects in the northeast is Rs 10,749 crore - about one-eight of the total investment planned by the department of telecommunication. This is likely to be enhanced to Rs 15,000 crore soon," Aruna Sundarajan, secretary of the department of telecommunications, said. The ambitious plan includes 100% tele-density by 2020, setting up of 6,994 mobile towers by June 2019, last-mile connectivity through BharatNet in all gram panchayats by December this year, satellite connectivity in inaccessible gram panchayats, optical fibre connectivity for defence forces in border areas under the Network for Spectrum project and Wi-Fi connectivity in rural areas, also by December this year.
 
 Sinha also dedicated the Asthamangal Project, under which alternate bandwidth of 810 gigabytes per second is being provided by BSNL to all state headquarters and other important locations in the northeast.
 
 
