GURUGRAM: A group of residents met divisional commissioner D Suresh on Tuesday, seeking his assurance that members of the Muslim community would be allowed to offer prayers in peace on Friday in the aftermath of   groups disrupting   congregations at several open places in Gurugram.

 Worried over chances of communal disharmony, many eminent residents joined the initiative launched by organisers of the “Not In My Name” protests. 
 
 The residents submitted a letter, which had signatures from at least 150 persons, asking the administration to bring the situation under control and protect those offering Friday prayers at all locations across the city. 
 
 Vinita Singh, one of the resisdents, said, “The demands of the right-wing groups are unconstitutional. The administration cannot pay heed to such demands. Our Constitution provides the right to pray under Article 25.” 
 
 She added that if permission was required for religious gatherings, it must be mandatory for all communities, not just one. 
 
 Given that there are no mosques in New Gurugram, the group asked the administration to earmark public spaces within reasonable distance in residential and commercial areas to be used for offering prayers for two hours every Friday.
 
  “While the issue of Friday prayers is pertinent, I am also worried about the damage being done to the social fabric of the city and the country at large. As of date, there is a sense of fear in the average namazi about whether he should pray in the open. The government must ensure that that fear doesn’t become permanent,” said Nazim Iqbal, who works with a technology firm. Filmmaker Rahul Roy, a co-organiser of the “Not In My Name” protests, said, “We have expressed our concerns before the authorities. It seems that the government is trying to work with both the communities to ensure peace. We will observe the situation, this Friday. If the attacks by the right-wing groups continue, we will have to think about our further course of action.” 
 
 The DC assured the group that efforts were on to maintain peace. “We have a meeting with Waqf board CEO Hanif Qureshi tomorrow (Wednesday), where we have also called a few Muslim leaders,” said D Suresh.
 
 
