MANGALURU: Eight days after T G Rajaram Bhat, owner of Amruthadhara   in Kairangala, Konaje, and his staff began an indefinite hunger strike following theft of a cow from the gaushala, the   unit of the   on Monday averred the theft may have been staged.

 A delegation from the Congress submitted a memorandum to T R Suresh, commissioner of police, seeking speedy investigation into the case. The members also sought thorough analysis of the CCTV cameras installed at the gaushala and demanded that the watchman of the facility be subjected to Narco analysis test.
 
 Addressing the media, A C Vinayaraj, president, Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee Legal and Human Rights Department, on Monday said as the hunger strike began within 48 hours of the theft and continued even after the arrest of the two accused, it gives rise to suspicion that the move has been backed by the BJP for political gains as the polls are fast approaching.
 
 While maintaining it is Rajaram Bhat’s right to stage a protest and the Congress had no qualms with it, Vinayaraj questioned the grounds on which the he allowed firebrand leader Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat and MP Nalin Kumar Kateel make “provocative” speeches at the gaushale.
 
 “It was supposed to be a silent hunger strike. However, Prabhakar Bhat and Nalin Kumar Kateel delivered speeches with intense communal tone and thereby advocated divisive politics. The speeches carried the potential to foment tension in the communally sensitive district,” he said.
 
 Vinayaraj also questioned why the watchman, who allegedly fought the gang of thieves, did not call anyone for help, did not click their pictures or why he was not helping the police bringing out their sketches. Stressing that Rajaram Bhat had been saying the two accused caught by the police were not the culprits, Vinayaraj wondered how the people from the gaushala could be so sure about their claim. “How does Rajaram Bhat know the arrested aren’t the culprits? Moreover, why didn’t the watchman help the police in bringing out rough sketches of the culprits,” he questioned, adding all angles of the case give enough scope for suspicion that the theft is politically motivated.
 
 Following theft of a cow from the gaushala on March 29, the members of the gaushala had on April 1 launched an indefinite hunger strike to nab the culprits and ensure that such instances do not repeat. Various right wing outfits, too, had lent support to the protest. The Mangaluru City police on April 4 arrested two people in connection with the theft.
 
 
