KOLKATA: Around a fourth of critically ill patients, including terminally ill cancer patients, eventually reach a stage where they can’t be revived, say experts. But treatment has to be continued, prolonging the agony of the sufferer which also results in a serious financial burden for the family. The choice to opt out of lifesupport through a living will could not only save many from end-of-life suffering, but also prevent families from exhausting their resources on a patient who has no practical chance of survival, pointed out medics. But hospitals and doctors, while welcoming the Supreme Court verdict, also warned that every case has to be assessed and the final decision should rest on a body of experts that must include a lawyer and a social activist, apart from clinicians.

 “The decision is a humanitarian one that will save work in favour of both patients and their families. As the head of a cancer hospital, I come across numerous such cases where the patient has no chance of survival and is barely conscious, after having gone through a prolonged period of extreme pain, but we have no choice but to keep him alive. Often, patients who are in extreme pain, plead with us to withdraw life-support or stop treatment so that they can die which is heart-wrenching. These patients can now be relieved of that trauma,” said  , medical director of   Cancer Centre and Research Institute.
 
 But he warned that without astrict vigil, passive euthanasia could be misused. “It has to be scrutinized at two points. First, when the living will is being made. It must be ensured that the person involved is not under duress. Secondly, an expert committee has to verify all details before life-support is allowed to be taken off or treatment withdrawn,” said Guha Thakurta.
 
 Critical care expert   agreed. “The medical board entrusted to take the final call must include a psychiatrist, a neurologist, a medicine expert and a doctor from the particular field of medicine under which the patient was being treated.”
 
 “Once we can ensure that the process is transparent, there’s no reason why we shouldn’t have it,” said Alok Roy, chairperson of  .
 
 Around 30% of patients at Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Cancer Research Institute (NSCBCRI) survive less than six months. “So, the decision is right and we are already scouting for legal and clinical experts for the medical board,” said Ashish Mukhopadhyay, director, NSCBCRI.
 
 It will allow scores to die with dignity and in relative comfort, felt Gautam Mukhopadhyay, oncologist.
 
