MUMBAI: More heads are set to roll as an in-house probe into the   road repair   enters its final phase. A second report submitted to the civic chief on Wednesday has recommended the dismissal of four more   and demotion of another 10. Of the 169 engineers named so far for approving   work, 84 were found guilty after the first inquiry as well.

 “Close to four officers face dismissal and there are 10 engineers whose ranks stand to be downgraded,” said a senior civic official privy to the report. The panel has submitted it to the BMC commissioner’s office. The report will be submitted to the mayor later in the week.
 
 Last Saturday, the BMC commissioner sought some revisions in the report, including on recommendations against officers. Disciplinary action on such a large scale against civic staff for corruption and negligence is unprecedented.
 
  
  
 The scale of the scam investigated in the first inquiry involved Rs 352 crore misappropriated by contractors, and during the second, it was Rs 959 crore. The second inquiry looked at the role of close to 200 BMC officials, including engineers.
 
 The methodology adopted by the inquiry panel this time while fixing punishment for the engineers involved is along the same lines as during the inquiry’s first phase: dismissal, cut in increments and reduction in rank, depending on the level of one’s involvement in the scam.
 
 Civic sources said two senior civic officials named in the first phase have appealed against the punishment awarded to them. The two are: Sanjay Darade, chief engineer, development plan, who a year ago held charge of deputy chief engineer, roads, and P Watake, who is now in the building proposals department and was earlier in the roads department. 
 
 “The commissioner is likely to appoint an official of the level of deputy municipal commissioner to give the two officers a hearing,” said an official.
 
 The road scam came to light in 2015 when Mehta, following a letter by the then mayor   on shoddy roads, appointed an inquiry panel to probe into roads repaired in the previous three years. After inspecting 34 roads in the first phase, the committee submitted a preliminary report saying work on almost all the roads was found to be shoddy. For the first time, the BMC registered an FIR against the contractors. In June 2016 the first arrests were made. A special investigation team (SIT) probing the case arrested 10 employees of two third-party auditor firms. In July 2016, two senior BMC engineers and a director of Relcon Infra were arrested. A detailed inquiry into the scam later brought to light how close to 200 engineers had failed to supervise road repair work. In the first phase, 96 engineers were found guilty. While four were dismissed, the rest faced various punishments, from increment stoppage to fines.
 
 
