NEW DELHI:   on Monday sought an explanation from the AAP government on its decision to issue a request for proposal (RFP) for 1,000 standard-floor  . 

 The court pointed out that these buses were neither disabled friendly, nor easily accessible by the aged and the children.
 
 "We do not know how you are going ahead with such tenders when the law (with regard to disadvantaged groups) is to the contrary," a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C   remarked while hearing a PIL by Nipun Malhotra challenging Delhi government's decision taken last year to procure 2,000 standard-floor buses at a cost of Rs 300 crore.
 
 The court also made known its disapproval with the timeline given by Delhi government's transport department to procure 1,000 electric low-floor buses as the tender is proposed to be issued in June and the supply of vehicles will begin after March 31 next year.
 
  The court underlined that the Supreme Court mandated number for Delhi is 10,000 buses. The bench had on the last date asked the AAP government not to go ahead with its tender to purchase standard-floor buses for the national capital, saying it would not allow the procurement as it would lead to the violation of the fundamental rights of disabled persons who would find it difficult to access such vehicles. 
 
 Meanwhile Malhotra, who suffers from a locomotor disability, in an affidavit informed the court that as per the  's ( ) own data, low-floor buses were safer than standard-floor ones. The petitioner submitted that the transport department had on February 28 issued a fresh RFP for 1,000 standard-floor buses, despite the high court asking it not to take such a decision.
 
 HC then asked the transport department to file its response to the affidavit by Malhotra and listed the matter for further hearing on April 16.
 
  Centre had recently told the court, in an affidavit, that less than 10% of the over 1.3 lakh buses run by state road transport undertakings have been found to be disabled friendly. It also stated, in the affidavit, that by March this year only 10% government-owned public transport needed to be accessible to disabled persons.
 
 
