Noida: The district administration has said it would shift a decades-old Shani temple in Sector 63 within a month after the NHAI sought its relocation for widening NH-24.

 According to officials, the land on which the temple was built belongs to the public works department (PWD). In an order on Friday, the Allahabad high court had directed immediate shifting of all religious structures that were constructed on public land after January 1, 2011, and encroached on roads, pathways, lanes and side roads. On encroachments before January 2011, the court directed that they be shifted from their present place within six months. 
 
 The DM, district police chief and circle officers of police would be held accountable for the encroachments on road after June 10, 2016, the court had said.
 
 The administration has now asked the mahant handling the temple’s administration to vacate the plot and identify another piece of land for relocation. Mahant Ramnath, who has been staying in the temple for the past eight years, said the responsibility of seeking a new place for the temple should be of the administration, and not the temple priests. 
 
 “A team of PWD officials visited the temple on Wednesday and threatened to demolish it. We told them to come whenever they want. They offered us Rs 5.5 lakh for shifting. What will we do with the money if we leave the temple for which we have sacrificed our lives?”
 
 According to the mahant, the temple had come up around a decades old peepal tree. “The temple is around 100 years old,” he said. He suggested that the temple be shifted to the nearby green belt in Chhijarsi, as hundreds of devotees throng the temple on Saturdays.
 
 Gautam Budh Nagar ADM Kumar Vineet said the temple would not be allowed to come up on the green belt. “Identifying another plot of land is their headache. The NHAI has asked us to get it shifted so that widening can be done in a month,” he said.
 
 While the district administration claimed it doesn’t know of any religious structures coming up on public land after 2011, a mosque in Sector 76, which was built in 2011, has come under its radar. The Markaz   was built on a plot given to Barola village in the sector for a graveyard. The land has now been allocated as parking space for the upcoming Sector 78 metro station.
 
 “The Authority gave us this land in lieu of a plot in Sector 49 which was acquired for a road. It was intended for a graveyard, but a masjid was built because there was no one here,” said Azad, the caretaker.
 
 The mosque will have to be shifted elsewhere as the metro parking has to come up on the area now. “This matter has been going on for quite some time. Since the Noida Authority owns the land in question, we will write to them asking them where the mosque could be shifted,” Vineet told TOI. 
 
 Bilal Burney, chairman, Gautam Budh Nagar Waqf Board, claimed the masjid was not an encroachment.
 
 Noida Authority ACEO RK Mishra said any religious structure covering land allocated for parking will be shifted if the administration writes to them.
 
 
