CHENNAI: Slamming a motor accident case tribunal for awarding a measly Rs 4.5 lakh to an ex-soldier who went into vegetative state due to injuries suffered in a road accident, the   enhanced the sum to Rs 73.8 lakh saying the active soldier had become totally dysfunctional because of cruel twist of fate.

 A division bench of Justice S   and Justice S Ramathilagam, going to the extent of suggesting training for subordinate judicial officers so that deserving litigants would not be put to stress and suffer delay, said the litigant public should be able to reap the benefits of benevolent legislations, that too on time.
 
 On April 11, 2017, Mohan Kumar, 34, sustained serious injuries in a road accident and went into vegetative state. While disposing of a compensation application moved by his wife, Tiruppathur Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal awarded Rs 4.57 lakh as “just and due” compensation by an order dated October 30, 2012. As the award was meagre, the ex-serviceman’s wife preferred the present appeal for enhancement of compensation.
 
 In its order, the bench pointed out that before being injured in the accident, Mohan had been protecting the nation as one of India’s sincere children and added: “It is not in dispute that the claimant is totally paralysed and is immobile. While the army hospital had assessed the disability at 100%, the hospital at   assessed it at 90%. Be it 90 or 100, the disability has rendered the claimant immobile for the rest of his life. The medical records placed before the court described the plight of the claimant and the sufferings he has to endure throughout his life on account of the injuries sustained by him in the accident.”
 
 This is all the more important when the injured had been fondly discharging his duty of defending the country by working not only in high risk places, but even where habitation is scarce, the bench said, adding that at present even for routine day-to-day chores he had to be dependent on others. “The Tribunal ought to have considered all these aspects in proper perspective while quantifying the compensation towards loss of his earning capacity,” the bench said, enhancing the compensation to Rs 73.82 lakh.
 
 It also found fault with the multiplier method adopted by the subordinate court while arriving at the Rs 4.5 lakh compensation package and said the method had not been understood by a few judicial officers.“It is high time necessary training is imparted to judicial officers so that the litigant public is not put to undue stress and delay, and they are able to reap the benefit of the benevolent legislation in time,” it said.
 
 
