NEW DELHI: Ahead of the 2018 Commonwealth Games, one person in particular is putting in the extra yards to ensure a medal. That is boxer  , who will be representing India in the men's 69-kg category and spearheading the Indian challenge along with another experienced boxer   in the absence of Shiva Thapa and Gaurav Bidhuri.

 
 
 
 Manoj will be one of India's brightest prospects from the 13-member contingent to return home with a medal, and for that, the pugilist has been part of the national camp in Patiala where he was training under the watchful eyes of chief national coach SR Singh and Argentina's Santiago Nieva, the high-performance director of the men's and women's teams. The Haryana boxer recently participated at the   tournament in Sofia where he lost in the pre-quarters to Morocco's Abdelkabir Bellassek. To overcome his mistakes, Manoj has been carefully assessing his game by sitting and watching videos of his bouts several times.
 
 At the Rio Olympics, Manoj put up a spirited show but could not match the power of fifth seed Fazliddin Gaibnazarov in his pre-quarterfinal bout and subsequently bowed out. Manoj doesn't have the best of forms heading into the   either. Besides his quarter final exit at the Strandja Memorial, Manoj clinched bronze at the India Open boxing tournament, which remains his only medal win of late.
 
 
  
  
 
 However, the boxer has been sweating a bucketful at the training sessions to get his body and punches in perfect shape. 
 
 
 
 
 
 "The preparation is on right track. I have been working on fine-tuning my technique, especially the attack part. My foot movement is now faster which can help me cancel an opponent’s move as quickly as possible. The boxing team will leave early for Gold Coast to acclimatise to the conditions. I will look to better my quarterfinal appearance at the Glasgow CWG. I am confident of securing a medal this time," Manoj had told TOI earlier this month.
 
 
 
 Amit (49kg), Gaurav Solanki (52kg), Manish Kaushik (60kg), Manoj Kumar (69kg), Hussam Mohammed (56kg), Satish Kumar (+91kg), Naman Tanwar (91kg), Vikas Krishan (75kg)
 
 
