CHENNAI : The rock-cut monuments that earned   world renown have helped the ancient port town garner another honour. 

 Three years after being declared 'World Stone Carving City' by Unesco-affiliated   (WCC), the state government has unveiled a plaque bearing the prestigious inscription in the shore town, with chief minister   making a formal announcement on March 8, on the occasion of Artisans Day.
 
 The move is expected to give a major push for bringing the Unesco-recognised world heritage site, dotted with a slew of hand-crafted stone sculpture workshops, on to the international map of craft cities. Mamallapuram - whose stone sculptures, male and female, symbolise perfection in terms of beauty - and  's capital Jaipur are among the 19 craft cities across the world.
 
 Former WCC international president and   committee member   said Mamallapuram was the first city to bag the honour when the WCC accorded it the status in 2015. "It was followed by Hui'an in China and   in   for stone carving and stone mosaic, under the same category," she told TOI. The declaration is also expected to help the artisans of Mamallapuram in a big way as their artistic work would get better visibility among global tourists. 
 
 
 “The recognition will bring more business to local craftsmen. It can also help become an interface between the craftsmen and tourists for the former to market their products,” she said. Workshops can be held in cities sharing the honour for exchanging ideas and techniques, she added.
 
 Ahead of the declaration, a team of three jurors designated by WCC, a category A non-governmental organisation, visited Mamallapuram for an on-site evaluation in March 2015. The visit was facilitated by the state-run Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation Ltd, popularly known as Poompuhar.
 
 Poompuhar chairman and managing director Santhosh Babu said the craftsmen of Mamallapuram would get an identity for their products. “We also inaugurated Urban Haat (Crafts Village) and Craft Cafe at Mamallapuram, besides unveiling the inscription on March 8,” he said.
 
 The corporation also holds the Geographical Indications (GI) tag for Mamallapuram Stone Sculptures dating to the Pallava era. GI attorney and advocate P Sanjai Gandhi, who had filed the application on behalf of the corporation, said artisans residing in and around Mamallapuram can only inscribe their sculptures as ‘Mamallapuram Stone Sculptures’. “Anybody using this tag outside Mamallapuram can be sued,” he added.
 
 
