NEW DELHI: From yoga in the morning to self-expression as well as happiness for teachers — a variety of suggestions has been made on what the   can do to make the children in its schools happy through a  . 

 The suggestions were made at a national workshop organised on Tuesday by the government on developing the happiness curriculum. 
 
 According the director of State Council of Educational Research and Training, Sunita Kaushik, 21 papers were selected from over 1,500 submissions. “We first asked our teachers to give us ideas, and then requested others to contribute. We received about 700 papers from across the country, and 500 from Delhi schools. We will now analyse what can be used for our curriculum,” she told TOI.
 
 The presenters introduced their ideas on the tools that can be used to help children learn to be happy and find a balance during a testing time. Maharashtra State Council for Education Research and Training, for example, put forth its projects running in its schools for the past one year. The council, after being restructured as  , initially focused on reducing the pressure on government school teachers before moving on to the children. “We realised that if teachers are not happy, the children will not be happy. So we worked on giving teachers what they need to be able to function properly,” said an official.
 
 He explained while teachers are not pressured to undergo training, the children are also not focred to understand subjects in English in its “international” schools. “We decided to teach in the mother tongue but also aimed for excellence in English. This way, there is no pressure to learn in any other language,” he said. 
 
 The schools don’t have any separate book for happiness; the content is merged with language classes, he added. 
 
 Similarly, in a paper by Macmillian Education and the Fortis mental health programme, the focus was on helping students understand themselves and giving them the freedom of self-expression. It stressed on adapting the curriculum for the entire day instead of doing it in just a period.
 
 
