JAIPUR: Call it a please-all budget or growth oriented one, people in Rajasthan have nothing to complain about. While the big talking point in the state has been the reduction of   for companies having up to Rs 250 crore, there is actually quite a few announcements that has struck a chord with the people here.

 The focus on reducing infant mortality rate, animal husbandry, solar energy, tourism and affordable housing reflects the interests of the state. Additionally, the Rs 5 lakh health insurance for 50 crore people, the standard deduction of Rs 40,000 crore for salaried class, reduction of exercise duty on petrol and diesel created a positive vive among the people.
 
 “The finance minister has tried to please every segment of the population. After demonetization and the GST, people wanted some relief and the FM did not disappoint even though he did not raise slabs for tax exemptions. But at the end of the day, it all boils down to implementation which is the key,” said Kapil Sharma, a private sector employee.
 
 Most of the industry in Rajasthan in the  . The reduction of corporate tax by 5% to 25% will benefit 99% of the companies whose turnover is less than Rs 250 crore. 
 
 “A tax relief of 5% will provide a huge boost for industry in Rajasthan. Now the companies will have more cash in their hands as working capital. Hope, this also leads to capacity expansion and job creation,” said Suresh Kumar Poddar, an industrialist.
 
 While there are not any Rajasthan-specific announcements like for other states, the state can take advantage from many of the proposals.
 
 “It all depends on the bureaucracy to sensitize the respective departments for preparing action plan and tapping the funds available in all these schemes,” said Anand Singhal, an educationist.
 
 Being a penultimate year budget before the general elections, the FM seems to have given the people some cheer after the demonetization and GST ordeal but how this would translate into a electoral mandate will be only known next year.
 
 
