NAGPUR: Over 2,500 applications have been submitted in Nagpur district for the free   (Right to Education) seats in schools within three days of the start date even though teething troubles caused the server to slow down. The last date to file applications is February 28 and 6,693 seats are up for grabs under the 25% RTE quota in private schools. 

 An education official monitoring the RTE developments in district said the process was going on smoothly. “The initial hiccups may just be related to heavy traffic on server. That is bound to happen. Our basic structure is solid and data are being collected without any problems,” the official said. 
 
 Shahid  , founder of  , said there were technical problems. “There was going to be an Android mobile app as well for parents to submit online application but so far it has not been launched. It’s taking almost 30 minutes for one application to get submitted because of the speed issues. The government must upgrade the servers,” said Sharif. 
 
 While parents are busy submitting applications for RTE, education department is busy preparing for another problem just round the corner. With many private schools threatning to stop RTE admission process, there could be chaos. An education official told TOI the boycotting schools don’t have numbers on their side, but still it was a cause for concern. “They may claim thousands of schools are boycotting, I frankly think it’s just a hundred or so across the state. Regardless, the problem is that once the hundred take a stand and if judiciary finds merit in it, there’s no stopping schools sitting on the other side of the fence to cross over,” said the official.
 
 A group of private schools have approached the   regarding non-payment of RTE bills and the hearing is scheduled for next week. A school owner from Nagpur said, “The government has auto registered many schools for RTE and this will be a bone of contention at admission time. It is true that a majority of schools will grant admission not because they agree with the government but because they don’t want to have a confrontation. If the boycotting schools manage a judicial victory, many others will join.”
 
 
