GURUGRAM:   has agreed to pay back the interest-free security deposit it had collected from   of Fresco Apartments, which it built. The announcement was made in a 15-page response filed to   on Friday. 

 Fresco residents had approached H-Rera against Unitech in the first week of April, alleging the society was suffering from lack of maintenance, unavailability of water supply and sewer lines and of not being registered under H-Rera, to which, H-Rera had directed Unitech on April 27 to file its reply by May 25. The first hearing of the case is now set for June 6.
 
 TOI had first reported residents’ allegation of “irregularities” by builders Unitech and Pioneer in their joint venture project, Fresco, in February this year. According to residents, the builders had collected interest-free security maintenance (IFSM) amounting to Rs 11 crore from the residents around eight years ago, when the plots were allotted. This amount, they alleged, was collected by the builder, but wasn’t transferred to Fresco’s maintenance account, where it should have been kept as a fixed deposit as per norms. Two days later, Bombay Stock Exchange had sought clarification from Unitech regarding the matter. The notice had figured on the BSE website.
 
 In their response filed on Friday, Unitech has submitted that “IFSM and façade deposit will be handed over to RWA on receipt of   (OC) for entire project, as per terms of the buyers’ agreement.” Residents, however, are not happy with the response. “Unitech has also said since they have already applied for OC, this project can’t come under H-Rera as we wanted, so that they were answerable to H-Rera,” said  , president, Fresco society RWA. “The only positive that has emerged from their response is that they have assured to return Rs 11 crore in IFSM.”
 
 Tandon said Unitech had also inaccurately told H-Rera there are no issues and that residents’ problems would be “resolved in due course”. “For instance, we had highlighted there were snags worth Rs 12 crore in the infrastructure. Unitech has denied that,” he added. Residents also said Unitech had applied for OCs of the 17th tower in Fresco, though the tower isn’t complete. 
 
 A senior Unitech official refused to comment on the matter when contacted.
 
 
