Swerving at 95km/hr on a dirt track on a hill, the car barely avoids the edge of the cliff. The driver doesn’t flinch, and instead, hits the throttle on his way downhill through the rugged, narrow strip that runs through a coffee plantation. The car is airborne at least once every half minute as it hits a bump or two along the rocky path. Part of his confidence comes from his navigator, who has every crust and corner expertly marked on his map, during their recce the previous day. But it’s his skill and speed that matters as he accelerates through the rally, trying to finish in record time.
 
 That’s a jagged slice from the life of a rally driver competing in the Indian National Rally Championship (INRC), the country’s premier rallying series that has seen several Malayalis emerging winners and a steady increase in the participation from the State in the last four years. We find out what has led to the resurgence in the love for rallying and how the speed demons plan to navigate the road ahead.
  
 
 
  
 Thiruvalla-based  , one of the most experienced Malayali rally drivers, says, “There is definitely a renewed interest in the sport and I have not seen such a bunch of quality drivers in Kerala in my 18 years in the field. The current drivers from Kerala are on par in terms of skill and speed with those from other parts of the country.”
 
  
  
 The return of a prominent motorsports event in Kerala last year, after a gap of a decade, also added momentum to this trend in a way, he says. “Right after that, the INRC Coimbatore rally in July 2017 saw almost 13 entries from Kerala out of the total 30. That trend has not ceased,” says the 42-year-old driver, who is the current Autocross champion and was the national INRC championship runner-up for five years.
  
 In fact, some of the Malayalis have been revving up the competition. The rally season for 2018 began on April 28, and in the first event itself, 24-year-old   from Kollam became the talk of the town when he finished second.
  
 Younus, who has been rallying for the past three years, says, “There is definitely an influx in Malayali drivers. Earlier, the tracks were dominated by those from Karnataka and North India, where rallying is popular. But now slowly we too are breaking into the scene.”
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 Another reason is the shift from bikes to cars, says Palakkad-based Adith KC, who was the FMSCI (Federation of Motor Sports Clubs of India) cup winner in 2014 and 2015. “In Kerala, people are more interested in bike races. They would only change the paint and put on alloy wheels for cars. Taking it for motosports is an expensive option,” says the 26-year-old. “Most of the current crop of young drivers have a background in rallying or racing and take it up purely for the passion.”
  
 Fabid Arakkal, a 24-year-old from Palakkad, is one such young talent. “My uncle had been active in bike racing and that’s how I got interested. With his and a few others’ help, I got to learn more about the sport. I practised on my own and checked out YouTube videos on expert rallying techniques,” says the driver, who was the   runner-up last year.
  
 Training, though, has been a hassle for rally drivers across the country and in Kerala, there are very few areas to practice. “Here people hate it when we drift and the land becomes uneven,” says Fabid. “I have to travel to Coimbatore from Palakkad to practise.” The youngster though is also one of the few Malayalis who have attended courses by former Asia-Pacific Rally champion Gaurav Gill. “It made me aware of the minor changes that I can make to increase my speed,” he explains.
  
  
  
 
 Meanwhile, Bikku adds that rallying needs special skills that need to be honed repeatedly. “Anyone can cruise on tarmac at 100km/hr but to do that in a narrow strip of uneven land with a descent on one side and canal on the other in the middle of a plantation requires skill and control. That’s also a reason why many drop out after their first few rally events,” he says.
  
 
  
 Another major cause is the expense. “All cars used in INRC have to meet a particular safety specification, and even the gear from the suit to the helmet and gloves have to be fire retardant. This would cost Rs 20,000 per driver, and for the entire rally season, it would reach Rs 1 lakh,” he says. “More than the risk aspect, the expense is what chases most of the newcomers away.”
  
 In terms of getting the car rally-ready and entering the competition, Younus says it would cost Rs 1.5L to Rs 2.5L per rally depending on the location. “We have to shell this much for trucking the car, documentation for rally events, recce and the competition,” he says.
 
  
  
 Lack of promotion for rally events has also been a cause for concern. Most of the rally drivers in Kerala are self-funded as getting sponsors for a rally has been a perennial challenge, he says, adding, “In Kerala, if we tell them it’s for a rally, the next question would be ‘of which political party?’”
  
 Unlike in most of the other countries, motorsports in India doesn’t quite rake in the moolah either, says 42-year-old  , who became the first Kerala driver to race in the Asia Pacific Rally Championship. “As of now there’s no earnings unless you get into professional driving for car manufacturers. That’s when you get to earn some of the money back,” says the Thrissur native, who also works as a driving instructor for a German automobile manufacturer.
  
 While these aspects do pose roadblocks, the drivers are in no mood to take their feet off the pedals. Thrissur-based  , who was the FMSCI Cup champion in 2016, says, “Most of us do it out of passion but we want to take it up as a profession too. We now hear that several Indian automobile manufacturers would soon be starting their own teams and in that case each company will have three drivers who will get paid a salary. That’s an attractive option that all of us would compete for.” 
 
