AHMEDABAD: Soon after leading automobile majors having set up their manufacturing plants in the state, a slew of auto component manufacturers are now eyeing   as an ideal investment destination. More than 120 auto component manufacturers present at Automobile Component Manufacturers Association (ACMA) Value Chain Summit, which was inaugurated on Friday, have shown willingness to set up their manufacturing plants in Gujarat. The two-day summit was inaugurated at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar, by CM Vijay Rupani, who termed Gujarat as an ideal investment destination for the automobile industry.

  “The summit saw a participation of some 200 auto component manufacturers and allied industries. Of these, 120 have shown interest in setting up plants in Gujarat. This comes at a time when automobile manufacturers in the state are facing a shortage of components. Besides, several companies are exporting significantly to foreign markets and therefore, the investments are lucrative and promising,” said  , director general, ACMA.
 
 Leading supplier to Maruti Suzuki,  , has made an approximate investment of more than Rs 450 crore to set up two plants at Vithalapur. Yet another manufacturer of precision plastic,  , is in the process of setting up a plant near Vithalapur. “We have already procured land and our plant is already under construction. We have invested a sum of Rs 120 crore and the first phase of operations at the plant will begin by March 2019,” said BS Sivaram, general manager – business development, Polyplastics.
 
 Similarly, JBM Group, a conglomerate in the automobile, OEM and Renewable Energy sector, is also looking to set up an industrial park. “We are coming up with an industrial park on Vithalapur-Viramgam Road. It will be primarily meant for automobile manufacturers,” said Vinay Maheshwari, president – corporate projects, JBM Group.
 
 Automobile giants have also announced plans to invest in the state for capacity building. Kenichi Ayukawa, CEO, Maruti Suzuki, who was present at the summit’s inaugural ceremony, said, “The government of Gujarat and Maruti Suzuki are exploring a joint initiative to set up an International Automobile Centre of Excellence in Gandhinagar. An investment of some Rs 120 crore will go into the project.”It is noteworthy that Suzuki Motor Corporation (SMC) which is Maruti’s parent company, had announced last year that it would invest Rs 1,200 crore in setting up facilities to produce automotive lithium-ion battery along with Toshiba.The state government also promised to do the needful to let industries grow. “We have recently announced we will provide land plots at less than 50% cost in Gujarat Industrial Development Corporations to the micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). We are a policy driven state and will do all that it takes to develop infrastructure and keep transparent policies for the growth of industries,” said CM Rupani.
 
 Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit 2018 to be held from Jan 18-20, 2019: CM
 
 The next edition of Vibrant Gujarat Global Summmit 2019, will be held on January 18, 19 and 20 in 2019 at Gandhinagar, said CM Vijay Rupani. He spoke to the media after the inaugural ceremony of ACMA Value Chain Summit at Mahatma Mandir in Gandhinagar on Friday. CM Rupani said that delegates from across 125 countries will be attending the summit and the government will push Gujarat as an investment destination in automobile as well as other sectors.
 
 UNO Minda inaugurates two plants, invested Rs 470 crore
 
 Ahmedabad: Automobile component conglomerate, UNO Minda, inaugurated two manufacturing plants in Vithalapur — Minda Rika which will manufacture switch sets for cars and  , which will manufacture alloy wheels, with a cumulative investment of Rs 470 crore. Some Rs 120 crore was invested in the switch manufacturing plant with a total capacity of 8 lakh switches per annum. “Of this, 4 lakh will be utilized in the current first phase. On the other hand, some Rs 350 crore was invested in the alloy wheel manufacturing plant, with a capacity of 1.2 lakh wheels per month. Of this, we will be utilizing some 60,000 units per month,” said N K Minda, chairman and managing director, UNO MINDA. Both the plants will be catering to Suzuki Motor Corporation along with Tata Motors and Honda Motorcycles and Scooters India Ltd.
 
 
