HYDERABAD: It isn’t the city’s highways but the internal roads within Hyderabad’s upscale IT corridor that have reported the highest number of accidents in recent times, reveal official data. Sample this: Over the last two months, the total number of fatal accidents reported from the highways --Nagpur, Bengaluru, Mumbai, etc – was 16. In comparison, the count of fatal accidents along ‘hi-tech’ Hyderabad roads was a staggering 25. Among them, the worst affected is the   division, which saw as many as 70 accidents, including four deaths, occur post New Year 2018.

  
  
 
 The reasons for the mishaps, police personnel however say, are much the same – overspeeding and drunk driving. “Most of the accidents occur during late hours, between 10pm and 5am, when people tend to overspeed. During the day, there is no scope as most parts of the IT corridor is faced with traffic congestion,” said S Jayaram, assistant commissioner of police (Traffic), Cyberabad. “Madhapur is one of the most densely populated areas in the IT belt, hence the count of accidents is also more there. But the number of fatal mishaps is lesser than those reported along the highways,” added the ACP.
 
 Road safety experts say that the menace can be curbed only through stricter patrolling. While lauding the efforts of the police in controlling the accidents along   (ORR) – with lazer guns etc – they said that similar initiatives must be rolled out within the city roads as well.
 
 “For highways and the ORR, police and traffic department have taken several measures to curb drunk driving and overspeeding, in order bring down the number accidents. They should carry out such special drives inside the city more frequently. Though majority of the accidents occurring inside the city are non-fatal, these roads are equally dangerous,” said  , founder of the Indian Federation of Road Safety.
 
 There is also a need for change in attitude of motorists, say policemen. “While we carry out awareness programmes regularly, the police alone cannot reduce accidents. Citizens themselves need to be more careful while driving. We have conducted drives against drunk driving and found that the number of offenders is particularly high in areas like Madhapur and   over weekends,” said a traffic police from Cyberabad.
 
 
