NEW DELHI: Hollywood films like Quentin Tarantino’s  , in which the female protagonist working for a Mexican airline smuggles money, or Blow drew inspiration from real life scenarios. The modus operandi of using cabin crew members to smuggle money and drugs has been a rampant practice across the globe for decades.

 Investigators say this is a preferred smuggling channel the world over as the cabin crew undergoes minimal security check. The needle of suspicion and surveillance is also minimal.
 
  
  
 “Flight attendants have access to secure venues at airports that, at times, don’t require baggage screening. As they are considered low risk, many a times the security at some airports takes it casually if a suspicious package is found in their baggage. The crew claim to be carrying chocolates and gifts,” said an airport security officer.
 
 A few years ago, a   flight bound for Accra was raided by New York customs officials on the tarmac. Three flight attendants were apprehended with 45,000 dollars in cash and booked for money laundering.
 
 Last September, a South African Airways (SAA) flight attendant was arrested in Australia after allegedly getting caught with 6kg of cocaine in her luggage. She was arrested by Australian Police after landing in Perth from  . The suspect, Priya Govender (32), had allegedly concealed the drugs in books.
 
  
  
 A crewmember of LIAT, a   airline, was allegedly caught with cocaine in 2016. The crewmember was nabbed upon her arrival at Barbados, an online portal reported.
 
 In 2015, UK customs authority detained five crewmembers of a Pakistan-based airline on a London-Karachi flight on charges of smuggling and money laundering. A large amount of currency and insured mobile phones were recovered from the crew’s bags.
 
 A year before that, a Dominican flight attendant was booked for carrying a large amount of cash. She had been laundering money for a year, police said. A Russian airhostess was arrested in 2011 in Canada on money laundering charges. She had 10 accounts in which the “dirty money” had been deposited, reported a local daily.
 
 An ex-JetBlue Airways flight attendant was charged with smuggling 60 pounds of cocaine into the Los Angeles airport. She was arrested shortly after she abandoned two bags at a security checkpoint and tried to flee after being flagged down for a search.
 
