VIJAYAWADA: Movie theatres remained   for the second consecutive day in the city as the stand-off between South Indian film producers and digital service providers (DSPs) over screening charges continues. However, multiplexes started screened Hollywood and Bollywood films from Saturday.

 The logjam over virtual print fee (VPF) between the DSPs and other stakeholders such as film producers, distributors, and exhibitors continues with both sides holding their ground. While the producers are demanding that DSPs reduce the charges by 25% and give them roadmap for future reduction of the charges as promised in the agreement, the DSPs are willing to slash the charges only by 6%.
 
 Secretary of Andhra Pradesh film chamber, Alankar Prasad, said that the exorbitant prices being collected by the two companies, UFO and QUBE, are not acceptable to them, and charges have to be reduced as promised. 
 
 Prasad alleged that the two service providers have monopolised the sector and are taking theatres for granted. He also found fault with the dual pricing system that is being implemented by DSPs for multiplexes and other theatres.
 
 Prasad said that the industry has lost Rs 11 crore revenue in two days, of which the government’s share is Rs 1.98 crore. “Our fight will continue over the unilateral approach of DSPs. We will also take a decision on giving Telugu films to multiplexes. Managements of multiplexes are not supporting us, and have started screening Hindi and English movies. We are of the view that henceforth, no Telugu movie should be screened at multiplexes.” While   owners are on a strike for their rights, denizens are missing out on their only source of entertainment. Vijayawada city alone has 50 theatres because of huge demand. 
 
 Film enthusiasts in the city are eagerly waiting for theatres to reopen. U  , a film buff and a native of  , said: “We hope the strike ends soon, and theatres starts screening films again, as we do not many entertainment avenues in the city.” 
 
 
