THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A sexologist, who has claimed to 'cure' homosexuality, is facing the wrath of   community. Queerala, an organization working for welfare of Malayali LGBTIQ people, is gearing up to file a complaint to the health minister, Indian medical association ( ) and the human rights commission against Kozhikode-based sexologist and psychologist Titus P Varghese. 

 Co-founder of   said the collective had independently verified that his claims as member of   and   were wrong. The Facebook page of Varghese removed these claims after Queerala responded to it on the same platform. Varghese, a known face in health-based programmes in TV channels, has been claiming that homosexuality was a behavioural flaw and it could be cured.
 
 A gay person, who was given counselling by Varghese around 10 years ago, said that the psychologist was using unscientific methods. "My parents took me to Varghese 10 years ago, after my marriage. He took me to a room with full of colourful lights. He would first ask us to write down all our sexual experiences from childhood before starting the counselling. Since I have read a lot about sexual orientations, I started questioning him. What initially began as counselling slowly turned into advices. Since he knows our sexual history, nobody would dare to speak against him," he said.
 
 IMA state secretary N Sulphi said that claims of 'treatment' of homosexuality were totally unscientific. "Homosexuality is being accepted as normal worldwide. The only counselling they need is about adopting safe sex practices," Sulphi said.
 
  Meanwhile, Varghese negated his claims, which are still available on YouTube. He said that he has an MA in psychology, MSPW and PhD. "I did not say that homosexuality needs to be treated. Various issues such as homosexuality and paedophilia are caused by changes in behavioural patterns. It happens due to extreme sensory experiences during childhood. It will subside if there is an acceptance and confirmation of these experiences," he said. Varghese said that he did not consider homosexuality as a disease as no gene or hormone was found to be causing it. "I never said that I treat or cure it," he added.
 
 
