Coimbatore: Higher educational institutions in the city and surrounding regions are upbeat over the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) ranking released last week. A total of seven technical institutions, nine arts and science colleges, four universities, and a medical and management institution each had made it to the top 100 rankings in their categories. However, three technical institutions in the list had fallen by an average of 10 ranks each. Authorities of the colleges said over the past week they had been looking into where they were lagging. Coimbatore Institute of Technology (CIT), which had been ranked 51 among engineering colleges last year, has slipped to 62nd position this year. This was because several senior faculty members had retired in the past academic year, said V Selladurai, principal of CIT. “As the senior teaching faulty with PhDs and publications have retired, the points for those parameters have gone down. But we’re sure we’ll perform well next academic year, as several new faculty members with PhDs have joined CIT,” he said. Similarly, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences had slipped 10 positions from 72 to 62. While it had maintained its scores in other parameters like perception, it had slipped in outreach and inclusivity. An official from the university said they had formed a team to look into this and take corrective measures. Research and development was a crucial area which they were focusing to improve their performance next year, said S Kuppuswami, principal of Kongu Engineering College, Perundurai. The college, which was ranked 57th last year, secured 68thposition this year. “We still retain our rank as the second best self-financing college in the state,” said Kuppuswami. He added that they were also looking to improve their research and development activities as they had identified as a crucial area for excellence. While PSC College of Technology had moved up from 33rd position last year to 29th this year, Kumaraguru College of Technology maintained its 82nd rank. Bannari Amman Institute of Technology, Sathyamangalam secured 76th position. Among arts and science colleges, PSG College of Arts and Science had retained its 11th position. While Government Arts College, Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya College of Arts and Science and CMS College of Science and Commerce made it to the list this year, Nirmala College for Women, Sri Ramakrishna College of Arts and Science for Women, SNR Sons College and Hindusthan Arts and Science College, which were present in the list last year, were missing this year. PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research, PSG Institute of Management and PSG College of Pharmacy were ranked 21, 33 and 31 in their respective categories.