Indore: After several complaints by the hostellers,   administration has agreed to cut down the hostel fee and adjust remaining amount from the caution fee. But the hostellers did not make peace with varsity and demonstrated against the hostel fee hike in front of the chief warden’s office on Wednesday. 

 The students had paid Rs15,000 in the beginning of the academic session as the hostel fee after which they were asked to pay Rs5500 additionally in October as varsity had hiked the hostel fee. 
 
 Officials said students will be allowed to pay Rs 2500 in the next few days as an installment instead of paying Rs5500. The remaining amount of Rs3000 will be deducted from the caution money according to the varsity. 
 
 “Facilities that students are demanding will be given to them but they will have to pay the fee first. We have asked the students that they can pay Rs2500 now and we can adjust the remaining amount from their caution fee that they had submitted during the time of admission,” said vice-chancellor Prof NK Dhakad.
 
 Students are however not ready to pay the additional fees. 
 
  hostellers sat outside the chief warden’s office for hours on Wednesday afternoon holding banners and posters with a message that read ‘DAVV’s dictatorship will not work’. 
 
 Students complained that varsity has hiked hostel fee in between the academic year instead of informing them during the beginning of the year. 
 
 “The varsity cannot increase the hostel fee in mid academic year. The varsity has cheated us using such tactics and strategies to increase the fee according to their convenience,” said a hosteller from the varsity. 
 
 During the protest on Wednesday the hostellers gheraoed the chief hostel warden  . 
 
 Students’ wing of the varsity met the chief hostel warden and V-C along with the hostellers on Tuesday to discuss the issues. During the meeting students also demanded renovation and availability of pure drinking water since months now. After several complaints the varsity has finally ordered 18 water purifiers for different hostels in the university. 
 
 “We had questioned about the long pending renovation of hostels for which the students were asked to move out for two months last year. We have been ensured that renovation will be done during the semester breaks but it got delayed,” said  , university’s students’ wing president. 
 
 
