KOLKATA : Cops have made headway in the one-year-old robbery case, in which a firm on   in lieu of gold was robbed of around Rs 3 crore, with the arrest of the kingpin of an inter-state gang. The gang was involved in various robberies in Bihar,  , Maharashtra and West Bengal.

 While Bihar Special Task Force (STF) officers arrested a wanted criminal and the gang kingpin — Subodh Singh — and his four accomplices, Kolkata Police’s detective department got his transit remand and will be bringing him to the city soon. Nearly 15kg gold, several firearms, an SUV and a motorcycle were recovered from the gang following a fierce encounter in Patna.
 
 Singh will be questioned on how he carried out the robbery in the heart of the city with the help of three of his associates.
 
 Singh, who was earlier taken on transit remand by Rajasthan police, confessed to have been involved in around 20 major robberies across India at various financial firms that offer loans in lieu of gold. Four men, all of them carrying firearms, had entered the office of a Park Street firm offering loans in lieu of gold and left after about 30 minutes with over 10kg of the yellow metal worth Rs2.88 crore on February 23 last year.
 
 The audacity of the strike lay in the choice of the time (a busy weekday afternoon) and the location — an office in a bustling quarter of the city. It seemed to have been backed up by inside information as well as some meticulous planning. 
 
 Sources claimed the accused posed as customers and carried out a recce that went unnoticed by the authorities.
 
 “The robberies can be solved with greater coordination among various state polices, but we need to investigate how they managed to flee so quickly,” said a senior officer who has been tracking the case. 
 
 Lalbazar’s top brass said necessary steps in this regard have been taken. “Security loopholes of around 70 such firms were discussed in detail with the stakeholders after spot visits in each division,” an officer said.
 
