It was Saturday The 13th for residents of a society in  , when they had to deal with a gruesome   attack in the wee hours of the morning. A five-year-old leopard had strayed into a ground floor flat in   and inflicted grave injuries on six locals before being caught. Dhananjay Kute, an eyewitness from the neighbouring building, reportedly said, “My wife Savita stepped out around 7.30 am and was attacked by the leopard. She sustained claw injuries.” By the time Savita raised an alarm, the leopard had entered another flat. It took forest department officials six hours to capture him. While these residents are still coming to terms with their shock, it has evoked horrific memories for residents of the Sher-E-Punjab Colony, Andheri East who faced a similar situation recently...

 
 
 
  
  
 The Andheri residents count their blessings after their own narrow escape, a month ago. Ruchi Sabherwal and Ritu Sethi, owners of the playschool where the leopard had strayed, point out where he got in. “He (the animal) was spotted at a nearby Gurudwara, from where he prowled into an adjoining building. He then jumped into the school through a window that was open for ventilation,” recalls Ritu, adding that it was pure luck that the school was shut that day. “We cannot imagine what might have happened had the school been open. The animal was inside for 12 hours. What made things worse is that people had almost blocked the road and refused to clear the way. I saw parents bringing their kids to watch, saying, ‘
 ’. What if the animal had escaped and mauled them? We need to keep things like this in mind in case of such incidents,” cautions Ruchi. 
 Mary Kidangan, who stays in the neighbouring building, will not be able to erase the memory of the animal outside her home. She fractured her arm in the melee that followed. She recalls, “The leopard was lurking outside; it then went and sat under my neighbours’ window. Everyone peered out and suddenly, it jumped up and snarled. There was a window grill, yet when it was at half arm’s distance, looking so ferocious, we forgot where we were and ran. I fell down and got hurt. It was chilling to see the animal face-to-face; nothing prepares you for it. We heard about the Mulund attack, too. It is scary that this can happen in the heart of Mumbai. We are now wary when going out at night.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 Her husband, George has kept the leopard’s fur that was found near his crib, as a keepsake. He points out, “It took the authorities 12 hours to nab the animal here. They were informed about the sighting at 7.30 am, but even by 5.30 pm they did not have a tranquiliser to shoot the animal as the expert was not in town? In a city like ours, is this the response we have to an emergency situation? Face it, we are not prepared; 12 hours is just crazy. What if there is another attack, and this time, worse?” 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 What makes these animals leave their habitat? Environment activist Rohit Joshi says, “There are two issues here — first, enforce encroachment from all sides of  . Secondly, the leopard population has also increased in the last two years. The unofficial word is that there are more than 35 leopards in the entire   area. These leopards mark and roam around their boundaries, but their habitat is being depleted. They also come out for the trash outside the  . The stray dogs become easy targets.” He adds, “In  , what we are facing is different. They have set up kennels inside SGNP. These are pet motels and people leave their dogs there when they go out of town. The dogs are not really caged and are allowed to roam outside. This is a huge issue as leopards are attracted by their smell. We have complained about it. The government must notify that no kennel must be set up in the park area, as it’s dangerous. And it’s not just leopards, monkeys are also forced to come out of the   and are becoming a menace.” 
 Says Pawan Sharma from a wildlife welfare group, “Leopards been existing with us since long. They do not understand man-made boundaries, which is why they end up in human-dominant places, where the availability of easy prey is high. We also do not have a buffer zone to separate the forest from the city. Every national park is supposed to have that. The latest attack in Mulund shows that leopards may cover a long distance to reach dense human habitation.”
 
 
 
 
 As per census the number of leopards in   has increased from 35 in 2017 to 40 2017. 
 
 
