PUNE: The city airport might be have upped its passenger traffic and growth rate, but basic passenger facilities are not quite up to the mark, revealed the first quarter survey by the Airports' Council International ( ).

 Figures show that in 20 of the 33 basic passenger services-related parameters, the airport scored less than it did in the last quarter of 2017. The ACI, which is headquartered in Geneva, has been conducting these surveys for the past five years.
 
 On May 19, IT professional Nitin Deshpande tweeted: “Escalator not working. Air conditioning either not working or woefully inadequate. Lounge not operational for months now. Even at 2.30 am it is sweltering hot in the departure lounge.”
  
  
 On May 18, a passenger posted three photos of passengers sitting on the floor. “Flights to Ahmedabad get delayed for 5 hours and nobody is bothered about the passengers at  . No place to even sit,” he wrote.
 
 Vatsal Mishra, another passenger, wrote: “What bad management at Pune airport. No one is even managing the check-in queues.”
 
 While last year, the airport had been ranked third in “passenger services” in the category of the best airport by size and sub-category of 5-15 million passengers per year, this year it has slipped. The first quarter survey this year gave fewer points to the Pune airport in areas like check-in, parking, flight connectivity, trolley service, shopping, lounge etc.
 
 Air Marshal Bhushan Gokhale (retired) said, “The authorities are trying to take corrective measures. But the main reason for the problems is the increasing numbers of flyers. The expansion of terminal will take care of some of the issues. But sooner the   airport comes up, the easier it will be to resolve all these problems.”
 
 “The Pune airport has not seen controlled growth in its capacity vis-a-vis the number of flights that have been allowed to operate. Instead of being proactive, the AAI is reactive to problems — responding only when the complaints go up,” said aviation expert/analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar.
 
 
