NAGPUR: A 280-page charge sheet was filed against chairman of Maharashtra State Construction Workers’ Welfare Board Omprakash alias  , and six of his family, before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate by the crime branch on Thursday. The   police also simultaneously filed another 112-page charge sheet against Munna’s rivals,   and six others, before the same court.

 Different units of police have filed charge sheets against the Yadav clan for various degrees of assaults, and dropped the earlier charges of attempt to murder under section 307 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). The Crime Branch has filed a charge sheet under section 326 of IPC, among other sections for rioting and voluntarily causing grievous hurt, against Munna and his other aides. This followed a writ petition by the family members of Munna’s rival Mangal, following which the high court had transferred the investigation against him to the crime branch.
 
 Dhantoli police, however, continued to probe the case filed by Munna and his family against Mangal and his aides after the group clash at   near   on October 21 last year. The Dhantoli police submitted charge sheet against Mangal Yadav and six others under section 324 of IPC, for voluntarily causing hurt and provisions for rioting, which are lesser in gravity than 326 IPC. Mangal and his accomplices too had been earlier booked under more stringent provisions.
 
 A senior officer of the crime branch said the serious charges of attempt to murder were dropped from the charge sheet following suggestions of police department legal officers and also the public prosecutor. “The medico-legal experts had also opined that the clash had taken place on a trivial issue of bursting crackers, following which two groups had locked horns on sudden provocation. There was no premeditated attack or planning involved,” he said.
 
 “The medical reports from government hospital also claimed that the injuries caused during the clash could not have caused death in normal course,” said the officer. “Police also verified during the probe that the clash had taken place within members of the extended families,” said the inspector associated with the probe.
 
 Munna’s sons, Karan and Arjun, had earlier surrendered before Dhantoli police while their mother Laxmi and another aide has been extended relief by the high court. Munna and his brother Bala are expected to surrender soon. 
 
 Mangal and his brother Papa too are on the run along with another person, while four of their accomplices have got anticipatory bail.
 
 Sources from the legal fraternity said the counsels of the high profile Yadavs are expected to scrutinize the possibility of getting relief from the court based on the charge sheet before planning their next move.
 
 
