HYDERABAD: In an unusual development involving a leading political party and a constitutional authority, a routine meeting between the opposition   leaders led by state president Uttam Kumar Reddy and Telangana and Andhra Pradesh governor E S L   reportedly ended in a slanging match with both sides hurling charges at each other.

 Sources said the heated exchanges between the two went to the extent of the governor threatening to walk out from the meeting and the Congress leaders telling him not to ‘ favour’ the ruling TRS.
 “We are neither students nor you are a head master,” is what the Congress leaders told the governor when he allegedly reprimanded them for criticising chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao and his son and industries and mines minister KT Rama Rao. According to the sources from the Congress side, Narasimhan also wanted the opposition party to cooperate with the government in the new year in order to take the state forward on the path of development.
 
 
 
 
 On its part, Raj Bhavan said the meeting was cordial. “The Congress delegation came to Raj Bhavan to submit memorandum to the governor. It was a cordial meeting. The governor said he will look into their memorandum. The dignity and neutrality of Raj Bhavan will always be maintained. The governor is concerned about the welfare of people of both the Telugu states,” was the statement issued by the governor’s press secretary late on Friday night.
 
 TPCC general secretary Dasoju Sravan, who was part of the delegation, confirmed to 
  that voices were raised by Congress leaders and the governor as well but it was in the interests of the state that the two sides engaged in such a confrontation. Among those who were vocal in the confrontation were former Union minister Sarve Satyanarayana, TPCC vice-president Mallu Ravi and Uttam.
 
 It all started when the Congress delegation charged the TRS government with encouraging sand mafia, being anti-dalit and trying to suppress MRPS leader Manda Krishna Madiga’s struggle for categorisation of SCs. In response, the Congress sources said, Narasimhan started defending the TRS government.
 
 “When Uttam said that one Sailu, 36, died after being crushed under the wheels of a sand tractor, much to our shock, the governor said he had the report of the incident according to which the man was drunk,” the sources said. Congress delegation included Leaders of Opposition K   (Assembly) and Shabbir Ali (Council), MLAs D K Aruna and A  , former MLC Ponguleti Sudhakar Reddy, former MP M Anjan Kumar Yadav and former minister Danam Nagender.
 
 
 
 
