BHOPAL: The locked gates of a park in   hampered rescue of a   on Wednesday morning. He had to be dragged and squeezed through a narrow   — the only entry-exit point. The hold-up proved fatal.

 TOI is withholding the victim’s name out of respect for the family’s request not to identify him. A regular at the park, he fainted around 8.30am on Wednesday. Only a handful of people were at the park, which is maintained by a resident welfare association. Some of them immediately rushed to his side and on realising that he was not responding, tried to take him to hospital.But the only exit was a rotating gate. The main gate is always locked and there is no security guard you can ask the keys from, said a regular walker. One of those who was part of the rescue effort said: “Most people only offered advice but did not help in taking the patient across to a vehicle. Only one more person offered to lift the patient’s legs. Many refused because he had passed urine due to the fall.”
 
 Main gate of the park still remains locked
 
 Some people tried to break the lock on the gates, but couldn’t,” said Suresh, one of the many senior citizens who use the park. Physically unable to help, he stayed with the rescuers and did everything he could. They had to manoeuvre the unconscious man through the small rotating gate, where only one person can pass at a time. It took a frustrating half an hour to negotiate the gate. When they finally arrived at a hospital, he was declared brought dead. When TOI last checked on Wednesday, the main gate was still locked.
 
 Medical experts told TOI that the heat may have proved too much for the senior citizen.
 
 It’s not only private parks where the main gates are locked. It’s the same story with parks maintained by   (BMC), too. The BMC park at Arera Colony was also locked on Wednesday evening. When TOI contacted BMC garden wing in-charge, Sudha Bhargava, she said gates in BMC parks are manned by security guards. However, when TOI visited the park, the main gate was locked and there was no guard. Entry and exit was through a rotating gate. Asked why the main gate is locked, officials said that it is meant to keep vehicles out. But as Wednesday’s tragedy shows, it can exact a heavy cost. 
 
