GHAZIABAD: A 35-year-old accountant was shot dead in front of his wife and two children by two robbers who broke into his house in Masuri early on Thursday. The victim, identified as Sanjay Kumar Singh, was working with a private firm in  .

 According to police, the crime occurred around 1 am. Hailing from Bihar’s Bhabhua district, Singh was living with his family in Masuri’s Sikrod village for the past five years after building a two-storey house on a plot. 
 
 It is speculated that the robbers entered the house from the first floor, which is under construction.
 
 Police said, Singh heard some noise and went upstairs to investigate when he saw two persons coming down. He confronted them and raised an alarm. His wife Reena and children, aged two and eight years, woke up and rushed out of the bedroom.
 
 The two assailants shot Singh in the chest before fleeing. He was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he was declared brought dead.
 
 SP (Rural) Arvind Kumar Maurya and senior officers arrived at the house and a forensic team collected evidence.
 
 SHO (Masuri) Satendra Prakash Singh said, “An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons. One CCTV camera was installed at the house, and we are trying to ascertain the identity of the accused through it.” 
 
 In another case, a 60-year-old railway employee was shot at near Choudhary Mor in Kotwali on Thursday afternoon by two bike-borne assailants after he withdrew money from a bank. Darshal Lal, a resident of Bamheta, suffered a bullet injury and has been admitted at a private hospital. 
 
 Lal, who is about to retire from the railways on January 31, had gone to a Punjab National Bank branch at Ambedkar road at 1.30 pm, to withdraw money. Two assailants started following him as soon as he left the bank. After some distance they tried to snatch the bag he was carrying. When Lal resisted their attempt, one assailant fired at him. A bullet hit his hand first and after ricocheting, hit him in the chest. 
 
 SHO (Kotwali) Gajendra Pal Singh Singh said the victim is out of danger and is recuperating.
 
 
