HYDERABAD: The Indian man from Kerala who helped   with the procedures in Dubai to repatriate  's body to India had never watched a movie of the actress. 

 Actress Sridevi's body was not handed over to her husband Boney Kapoor in Dubai on February 27 but to Ashraf. His name is seen in the Embalming Certificate issued by the  ,  . The certificate mentions his address as Ajman (which is part of the UAE) and also provides his number. His telephone number is also mentioned in the certificate. It was not mentioned anywhere on the certificate as to who   was but his identity number is given. 
 
 
 
 When TOI checked, it was learnt that Ashraf is a volunteer with the Indian Community Welfare Fund, which is part of the Indian Embassy in UAE. The body was technically handed over to him as he is to be responsible for it as he locally resides there and is authorised to help Indians. ICWF consists of members who are to assist Indians in problems, including who get entangled in legal issues. He said though the family of Sridevi completed all the formalities required, the person who is technically handed over the body is considered responsible because he in connected with the embassy. 
 
 Thamarassery Palorakunnummal Ashraf hails from Kerala and has been living in the Ajman for the last 18 years. "I have never watched a movie of Sridevi," he told TOI from Dubai. "One needs to go to 16 offices to complete all the procedures for completing the post mortem and repatriating a body," he said. "On the day that I got all the procedures done for Sridevi's body, I also simultaneously worked on procedures for four other bodies," he said. Four Indians had died in Dubai during the same time. While one body was despatched to Chennai, another to Ahmedabad, two other bodies were sent to Maharashtra. "No, I never got to meet Boney Kapoor. Someone from his family was with me and I took them around for the procedures," he said. He did not get to meet Boney Kapoor, neither was he interested. 
 
 
 
 "Sridevi was a celebrity but how did it matter? The procedures are the same for everyone," he said. "My services are free. I have seen people suffer here not know where to go and what to do to get the bodies cleared. I felt I should help such people," he said. He begins his work as early as 7.30 pm. "I have a mechanic shop which my brother runs. So, I do not have to worry about earning my livelihood," he said. It is not just Indians that Ashraf helps. He has so far helped in getting procedures done for 4,700 bodies – of people belonging to 38 countries. For his commitment work, he was also given the Pravasi Bharatiya award in 2015. 
 
 "When a person dies, it is only a body. It does not matter whether one is rich or poor, known or unknown," he said philosophically when asked if he felt satisfied helping in the case of a well-known celebrity who had died.
 
 
 
  
 
