MYSURU: JD(S) state president   took on chief minister   on the latter’s home turf at   segment – of which the CM is the incumbent MLA – on Friday. Charging Siddaramaiah with corruption, Kumaraswamy said, “Illegal mining is still going on in the district, and the CM is supporting this.”

 Pointing to the induction of Ashok Kheny into the Congress, Kumaraswamy said, “Has Kheny paid money to the Congress? He is facing allegations of having looted Rs 1,200 crore. The CM is admitting politicians facing corruption charges.” The former CM was at S Hosakote in Nanjangud taluk, which falls under the Varuna segment, a seat Siddaramaiah has held since 2008.
 
 Alleging that truckloads of sand, mined illegally along the banks of Cauvery and Kapila rivers, were being transported to Kerala every day, Kumaraswamy said, “But the government is silent. Who is operating this racket? Siddaramaiah is supporting the loot of natural resources.”
 
 Kumaraswamy made a passionate appeal to the voters of Varuna to support the JD(S) candidate from the segment, SM Abhishek, a Lingayat and a political novice. “People, cutting across caste lines should vote for our party’s candidate,” said Kumaraswamy.
 
 Former minister GT Devegowda, legislators KT Srikantegowda, Sa Ra Ramesh, former MP Adagooru H Vishwanath, and BSP leader Mahesh were in attendance at the rally on Friday.
 
 HDK questions suspension of DCP Yogesh
 
 HD Kumaraswamy on Friday questioned the motive behind the government’s move to suspend deputy commissioner of police Yogesh in the wake of the attack on Lokayukta justice Vishwanath Shetty in Bengaluru. “The CM singled out the cop because he is a Vokkaliga although he does not have jurisdiction. The security of the Lokayukta falls under the jurisdiction of the additional commissioner, but the CM targeted Yogesh because he is a Vokkaliga, and is continuing the politics of revenge. Siddaramaiah is also targeting police inspector Mohan, aginst whose son he has filed a case,” said Kumaraswamy.
 
 
