NEW DELHI: Over 12,000 people were booked for  , speeding and dangerous driving on  . The   police, who conducted a drive, said the most violations happened in south Delhi, followed by west and outer Delhi. Most of the violators were riding drunk without helmets. 

  
  
 
 Bikers were found to be biggest rowdies. More than 100 people were booked for playing Holi on vehicles. Police said after being challaned, the violators were counselled before being allowed to take back their vehicles. Police also focused on foot patrols in most areas to keep hooliganism under check.
 
 Police commissioner, Amulya Patnaik led patrol teams in some areas. Police spokesperson, special commissioner Dependra Pathak said the focus was on intensified patrols in communally sensitive areas to check untoward incidents. 
 
 Joint commissioner (traffic) Garima Bhatnagar said joint teams comprising district police, traffic police and PCR staff put up barricades near residential colonies. During this, 4,593 motorcycle riders were caught while 1,153 were car drivers.
 
 Police found 2,405 violators were from south Delhi, 1,447 from west and 1,444 from outer Delhi. Traffic police chased 483 drivers and challaned them while 939 drivers were intercepted by traffic vehicles. Strict action was taken for drunk driving, speeding, reckless and dangerous driving, jumping signals, triple riding, minor driving, riding without helmet, performing stunts on two-wheelers and other traffic violations, Bhatnagar added.
 
 Special teams with alcometers were deployed at major intersections and vulnerable points. In case of drunk driving, besides prosecution, some drivers were detained for counselling through the day. Teams were also stationed on various roads, strategic locations and intersections all over Delhi to check drunk driving. Interceptors were placed on vulnerable roads to check speeding.
 
 During the drive, 1,142 vehicles were impounded after their drivers were found to be too inebriated to drive.
 
 Police received 21,400 PCR calls about scuffles and quarrels on Friday. About eight cases of violation of government orders were registered in south Delhi after people were attacked with water balloons. Three of those cases were reported around Lajpat Nagar and Amar colony. 
 
 Police said actionable PCR calls were forwarded to individual police stations. 
 
 Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC were issued to dissuade motorcyclists riding with balloons and pichkaris. Action was taken under Section 188 of IPC (disobedience of public order) against violators. People making a din on the roads despite objections of local residents were also booked under these orders.
 
 
