NEW DELHI: Aiming to infuse transparency and ensure accountability in its functioning,   is developing more than 200 apps for travellers, stakeholders and also for internal use of employees.

 
 People will also be able to track the progress being made in areas such as construction of foot-overbridges, installation of escalators at stations, status of construction of underpasses or underbridges and installation of Wi-Fi service at stations through these apps being developed by the state-run transporter.
 
 Travellers can also get information about status of station redevelopment, information about catering stalls, their locations and even planning & progress in removal of unmanned level-crossings through the use of these apps.
 
 The transporter is likely to launch three key apps in coming days.
 
 Passengers will be able to file complaints relating to their travel and facilities at stations on " " app for faster redressal. The app, which is almost ready, has integrated all passenger grievances and redressal mechanisms in railways.
 
 "Menu on Rails" app will display   menu with rates for food items available at stations and in different types of trains such as mail/express trains or elite Shatabdi/Rajdhani trains.
 
 As freight is its profitmaking business, railways is ready to launch "IR SUGAM" app which will provide all the information related to freight business to customers.
 
 The apps which will be useful for stakeholders, include those which provide information on pending issues of Zonal Railways with railway board, information on tenders of goods, works and services and details and updates about MoUs signed with zonal railways and production units.
 
 Railways minister   said the new railway apps will reshape service, delivery and complaint redressal mechanism in almost every sphere. "People will be informed about the services to be provided by the railways with the help of these apps. This will enforce accountability," said an official.
 
 Other apps on offer which may be of interest to people are about railway tourist information and information about national rail museum. For employees, the apps are being developed for getting information about salary, leave details etc and grievance redressal. An app for booking of officer's guesthouses and dashboard app for monitoring of tasks such as for colony maintenance are also being developed by railway zones, PSUs and production units.
 
