Ahmedabad: Congress MLAs went aggressive during the supplementary demand on home department in the assembly and fired a barrage of allegations and taunts at the ruling BJP. Congress MLA C J Chavda began his speech with mention of the snooping incident of Kutch, and the Naliya rape case. He said atrocities on Dalits were on the rise. Chavda said that during elections, BJP leaders had talked of putting Dawood Ibrahim in jail, but ended up in putting Hardik Patel in prison.

 Referring to PM Modi’s poll speeches, Chavda said, “During elections, it was said that one needs a 56-inch chest to take action against Pakistan and China. But I was a veterinary officer and know that the chest of an elephant is 102 inch, that of a camel is 96 inch, a horse has a 70-inch chest, but only a mule has a chest of 56 inch.”
 
 Congress MLA Punja Vansh, too, attacked Amit Shah and Modi and said that it was during their tenure that terrorists began coming to Gujarat. He pointed out that the jail superintendent, in whose tenure a tunnel was dug in Ahmedabad jail, was rewarded with a promotion.
 
 Radhanpur MLA Alpesh Thakor said that the orderly system, which began under British rule, was still existing in the police department and it should be abolished immediately. He alleged that the government was interested only in hafta from the illegal liquor trade. “Near the most sought-after schools, liquor is sold in bottles of Pepsi and students consume them,” he claimed.
 
 Meanwhile, Dhoraji MLA Lalit Vasoya said that Patidars have reduced BJP’s seat count from 126 to just 99, and in the Lok Sabha elections in 2019 they will reduce the BJP seats to zero. He also said that the BJP has not withdrawn cases against Patidars.
 
 Naushad Solanki, the Congress MLA from Dasada, said atrocities against Dalits were on the rise in the state. He said that while 20.5% of the cases nationally are cases of Dalit atrocities, in Gujarat the number was 32.5%. He further said incidents like those of Una, Thangadh and Patan cannot be called development. Solanki further demanded action against municipal commissioners who were forcing Dalits to enter manholes for cleaning. He said that 32 deaths from this have been reported in various municipal corporations.
 
 
