KEVADIA: The ambitious  , supposed to be the  , is nearly complete, say authorities, and the government has set deadlines to conduct   on October 31, the birth anniversary of   The Statue of Unity, a  , is a pet project of then Gujarat CM and today’s PM, Narendra Modi, who has always kept an eye on the project’s progress.

 Work of the statue, which is being built at Kevadia colony near Sardar Sarovar Dam is almost 70% complete claim those in charge of the project, and has reached the final leg. In fact, most interior and exterior work is expected to be over by September, and the bronze panels are expected to be erected and in place in time for inauguration on Sardar’s birth anniversary. The construction of the Rs2,989 crore project began in December 2015. 
 
 The Statue of Unity is being built with 5,600 MT of structural steel, 66,000 MT of concrete and 1,900 MT of ‘kansa’ (bronze).
 
 The construction of plinth and pillars of the 182m tall structure is over and the bronze panels are currently being installed. S S Rathore, chairman and managing director of Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Limited (SSNNL) and in-charge of the Statue of Unity project implementation team said, “Work on face of the statue will begin shortly.”
 
 Rathore said, “Foundation, construction of core from bottom to top is over; the bridge connecting the statue to main road is complete, and soon installation of the travelator will begin.” Speaking about progress of the rest of the project, Rathore said, “Construction of high-speed elevators is ongoing, erection of exterior bronze panels have started along with the last of the interior worrk.”
 
 Rathore said the museum and audio visual gallery on Sardar Patel’s life is under development and a laser, light and sound show, research centre, a lift for the monument is going on. “The most challenging part of the project, the construction of pillars up to 182m height, along with the work of the foundation is almost over. We have completed 70% of the project, and the remaining work will be finished by October 2018,” said Rathore.
 
 
