PUNE: Two cousin sisters arriving from the United Arab Emirates (UAE) on different flights on Wednesday landed in the customs net at the Pune airport with Rs 21.76-lakh   and saffron worth Rs 1 lakh.

 Sheikh Nikhat Zainuddin and Romana Zubair Sheikh, both from Mumbai, had left for the UAE on February 2. They were carrying the gold, weighing 699.84g, in the form of bangles that had a hard and colourful plastic cover. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “Nikhat reached Pune from Abu Dhabi on a   flight (9W-513) around 3:30am. Romana arrived from Dubai on a SpiceJet flight (SG-52) around an hour later. It takes almost an hour for the passengers to get their immigration and customs checks done. While Nikhat was undergoing the checks, Romana had reached the customs check counter. They were arrested almost simultaneously,” , deputy commissioner (Pune international airport) Bharat Nawale said. 
 
 “The duo taking two flights seems to be a new modus operandi to evade the customs authorities. We didn’t have any prior tip-off about them. They were caught due to suspicion and strict checking,” he told TOI.
 
 The officer said the customs authorities found eight bangles, four on each of them. “The bangles were made in a way that they resembled the ones made in Jaipur. Such bangles are popular among women for the bright colours and designs. The seized bangles had a plastic cover on them and the two women had kept those covered with their clothing,” Nawale said. 
 
 Customs officials said the duo had gone to Dubai with job offers. “It seems that they had no clue that they were smuggling gold with them. Both their check-in bags looked almost identical with similar objects inside — gifts, dry fruits, chocolates.” 
 
 When the bags were thoroughly checked and scanned, 1kg of saffron was found. Women officers were asked to frisk them, They found that the weight of their bangles was unusually more. On suspicion, the plastic cover of the bangles was removed and the gold was out in the open. “All the bangles are made of 24 carat gold,” Nawale said.
 
 The women told the investigators that they had been asked to deliver the belongings to a person called Amaan. The officer said, “We took the duo out of the airport with our men in plain clothes. But it seems that the person waiting for them outside got a whiff of the development by then and fled the spot.” 
 
 He quoted the women as saying that they had been put in a hotel, Al Sadiq, in the Deira area of Dubai. “On Tuesday, a person came to them and handed them the belongings. Investigation is on,” the officer said.
 
 A senior customs officer said the authorities were keeping a close watch on international fliers originating some specific places to intensify efforts to check smuggling.
 
 “Last year, three of the seven people arrested for smuggling gold through the Pune airport were from two places — Bhatkal in Karnataka and Ulhasnagar in Thane district. The authorities are carrying out a detailed profiling of passengers hailing from at least five places. We want to foil all attempts of smuggling at the Pune airport,” the official told TOI.
 
 Records available with the officials reveal that 20 smuggling cases were detected and seven persons arrested last year. “Our observations about the places the smugglers originally belong to are not new. However, the kingpins of the smuggling rackets are extremely smart and know the areas under our scanner for passenger profiling,” the official said.
 
 “The kingpins are now changing their modus operandi. We have come cases, in which the carrier was picked up from north Indian states,” he added.
 
 Another concern area of the customs officials has always been the innovative methods the smugglers adopt to carry out the crime.
 
 After concealing gold in the handles of trolley bags, hotplates and even electronic items over the years, the smugglers had even concealed the yellow metal in babies' diapers. 
 
 In December last year, the customs authorities at the Pune airport recovered gold worth almost Rs 18lakh that was concealed as diaper buttons from a male passenger coming from Dubai.
 
 The passenger from Mumbai was caught with a total of 48 diapers in his luggage. A close check revealed that the buttons on the diapers were made of gold.
 
 
