KOCHI: District collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla has constituted a procedure committee to find the reason behind the caving in of an under-constructionstructure at  . 

 The committee has been asked to submit its report within a week. The six-member team consists of disaster management deputy collector P D Sheela Devi, senior town planner P R Ushakumari, mining and geology department's geologist Krishnendu, public works department's building section executive engineer Rejeena Beevi, emeritus professor Babu T Jose and structural engineering expert  .
 
 The committee was formed on Saturday following the decision taken at the meeting of the technical committee constituted by the collector. The committee will also check the permits received by the firm for the construction, possibility of resuming construction work at the site and design of the building.
 
 Meanwhile the rectification work on the road, which was also damaged when the structure caved in, started on Saturday. "The textile company need to meet the expense of the rectification work of the road. We are planning to complete the road work by Monday evening," said   executive engineer M T Shabu.
 
 The technical committee had raised suspicion that the inability of shoring pillars to withstand the pressure from underground water and heavy traffic might have led to caving in of the structure.
 
 Meanwhile, the water authority is yet to start work on laying the 300m pipeline since the old pipe got disconnected when the road damaged. "We can lay new pipeline when the soil is consolidated. We will bring new pipe from Kizhakambalam on Sunday," said assistant executive engineer Sheena S S.
 
 The water distribution to Vaduthala, Elamakkara, SRM Road and parts of M G Road will be disrupted till the   lays new pipeline as they supply water in low pressure.
 
 The structure caved in on Thursday night. No casualty was reported in the incident. Kochi corporation had cancelled the licence of the construction agency and building permit issued to the textile firm.
 
 
