MADURAI: Divya, 25, wife of   who died on Monday, became the 11th casualty in the deadly forest fire that engulfed unsuspecting trekkers on   hill in   district on Sunday. Her family opted to take her off the life support system at the   here on Tuesday after she failed to respond to treatment for the 90% burns she suffered. The condition of five other blaze victims admitted to the hospital continues to be serious. 

 Meanwhile, the forest department placed a forester - identified as Jeyasingh of   forest range - under suspension following a department inquiry into possible lapses by the forest staff in the incident, officials said. 
 
 A top forest officer of Theni district said, “Jeyasingh was the duty officer when the fire accident took place. He was placed under suspension for allowing the trekkers in without proper permission. A departmental inquiry is under way to probe it further” .
 
 Divya of Erode who died on Tuesday was not responding to treatment and had been in a comatose state, according to hospital sources. Hence her family requested the hospital to take her off the life support system. She had got married only three months ago and her husband, Vivek, 27, had also succumbed to his injuries at the Theni hospital. Among the five others undergoing treatment at GRH, Kannan, 26, of Erode was on ventilator support while the remaining four are women. Anu Vidhya had 90 per cent burn injuries while the other three had lesser degree of burns. All of them continued to be under intensive care, according to Dr D Maruthupandian.
 
 Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who arrived in Madurai to participate in the convocation of the Mother Teresa University in Kodaikanal, visited the injured at GRH. He was accompanied by minister K P Anbazhagan, health secretary Dr J Radhakrishnan, Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao and dean of the hospital, Dr D Maruthupandian. He enquired about the condition of the patients and also consoled their family members, many of whom broke down on seeing the governor.
 
 Former minister I Periyasamy, who visited the patients at GRH, alleged that it was the carelessness of the forest department personnel which had caused the tragedy. He said that the department personnel should have monitored the movement of trekkers closely, which would have helped save many lives.
 
 Meanwhile, the forest department has undertaken a survey to ascertain the extent of forest area gutted in the incident. According to preliminary reports, 32 hectares of forest area was damaged in the fire and further investigation was being carried out with the help of GPS locator. The inspection of the fire ravaged areas led by officials from the ministry of forest continued for the second day on Tuesday.
 
 As the debate continued on the tragedy, villagers said that trekkers were allowed on just one route connecting Central village and Top Station from Kurangani. However, they were allowed to take up the activity without any restriction. While the trekkers should be accompanied by a forest guard, it was not followed strictly. John David, a villager, said that the trekkers were allowed to enter into forest areas on their own or accompanied by youths from Kurangani village. However, forest officials said that half of the107 sanctioned posts of personnel to cover 3,000 hectares was lying vacant. Trained youths were deputed to accompany the trekkers with prior permission, they said.
 
 
