PT   NAGAR ( ): Observing the 50th death anniversary of RSS ideologue Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, the saffron brigade, on Sunday, demanded a light house near the pole (673/1276), where Pt Deen Dayal Upadhyaya's body was found on February 11, 1968 at western end of   railway station, to draw attention of railway authorities towards passengers' safety.

 The frontal wings of RSS, especially  , also asked the   Party-led-NDA government at Centre to initiate action against those who are lingering the procedure of renaming of Mughalsarai railway station after Upadhyaya.
 
 Leaders and volunteers of SJM, BJP and other wings gathered at Shastri Park in the morning. After garlanding the bust of former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri they marched towards pole (673/1276) and offered floral tributes to Upadhyaya.
 
 Claiming Upadhyaya's death as murder and alleging that his body was abandoned by railway officials, they said that it had exposed the truth of passenger's safety and security. The national organising secretary of SJM Kashmiri Lal said that the railway should develop this place as symbol of passengers security. He said railway authorities should erect a lighthouse near this pole as it will keep railway authorities and employees alert for the passengers' safety and also to help people reach the place of martyrdom of Upadhyaya.
 
 After holding a tribute ceremony at the pole, they marched to Parmar Market for garlanding the bust of Upadhyaya. Addressing the gathering there, Lal highlighted the ideology and philosophy of Upadhyaya and said, "The SJM is observing the day as Swarojgar Diwas (self-employment) day across the country. Upadhyaya had demanded right to employment and also defined the employment."
 
 Other SJM leaders including east UP co-convener Anand Srivastava said that it was surprising that when state government, ministries of railway and home affairs had completed the formalities regarding changing the name of Mughalsarai railway station and railway minister Piyush Goyal also tweeted regarding the same on October 13, why the railway officials are delaying the process of renaming. They demanded railway minister to initiate action against the officials concerned for the delay.
 
 They also demanded chief minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure change of the name of Mughalsarai police station, tehsil and also on signage installed on the highways.
 
