MUMBAI: In a bid to make organ transplant rules foolproof and to protect women donors, the   government has submitted draft rules for approval before the Bombay high court. 

 The guidelines include cracking down on marriages of convenience for the purpose of transplant surgeries, especially if women donors have been married for less than two years to men who are the recipients of the transplanted organ. The authorities will also interview the woman’s siblings, parents or children. The proposed rules say that if the relationship between donor and recipient cannot be verified a DNA test can be conducted. 
 
  
  
 The draft government resolution was submitted last Friday before a division bench of Justice   and Justice  . The bench is hearing petitions over the delay in disposal of the applications made before the authorization committee for grant of approval to the proposal of a donor for removal of kidney before his death for transplantation into the body of a recipient, not being a near relative. 
 
 The court has granted the petitioners’ advocate   two weeks for suggestions on the draft GR. The proposed norms are for implementation of the Transplantation of Human Organs Act enacted by the Centre in 2011 and the Rules of 2014 passed by the state. “The standard operating procedures are made with the intention to make the process of authorization in such a way that the medical fraternity and patients don’t have a feeling of insecurity while performing or undergoing transplant surgeries,” the draft GR said. In case the donor is a woman, the norms lay down extra precautions. “If the woman is married for less than two years, then it shall be checked that it is not a marriage of convenience for transplant,” the rules state. 
 
 “Interview of the woman’s parents, siblings or children will be taken. Old marriage photos, family photos will be mandatory for spousal donation. Income statement of donor and recipient shall be mandatory, especially when the donor is widowed or divorced,” it added. If authorities are unable to verify the relationship between the donor and the recipient, the human leukocyte antigens/DNA verification can be done. In an unrelated case, a police verification can be done. Hospitals that have performed 25 or more transplant surgeries in the previous calendar year, can set up a hospital-based authorization committee. 
 
 The new rules also have a provision for maintaining the video recording of the doctor explaining the details o the donor and patient. Any complaints or breach will be investigated by the  , who will be aided by a committee of technical experts. Registration of any hospital or tissue bank can be suspended for violations, without notice. Under the law “no human organ removed from a donor before his death shall be transplanted into a recipient unless the donor is a near relative of the recipient”. The only exception is when the   is for “reasons of affection towards the recipient or for any other special reasons”. The authorization committee’s approval is mandatory in such cases.
