Chandigarh: The court commissioner, who had sanitized the controversial Dera Sacha Sauda (DSS) after massive violence in August 2017 following the conviction of dera chief in rape cases, has not ruled out the possiblity of “deliberate removal” of “incriminating material” from the premises before the sanitization operation was launched.

 The findings by court commissioner Anil Kumar Singh Panwar, who was specially appointed by the Punjab and Haryana high court to carry out the sanitization of dera, have strengthen the reports of removal of large number of cash and other incriminatory material from the dera premises.
 
 In his report, Panwar has recorded that a thorough search was made by teams, so much so that even carpets were uprooted to reach all that which was possibly lying concealed.
 
 “However, it is strange that no ornament or currency was recoverable from the search of the entire dera, particularly from the residence of the Baba and his children. The possibility, thus, cannot be ruled out that valuable and incriminating material had been deliberately removed from dera premises much before the start of search/sanitization operation,” says the report.
 
 The three page report, copy of which is with TOI, further added that such conclusion gathers further strength from two facts — some of the computers seized from the office of the dera were found having damaged/replaced hard discs and — the premises owned by Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who had built up a huge complex enshrining several buildings and an amusement park cannot be expected to have no currency or ornaments.
 
 Panwar has prepared the report in response to December 20, 2017 orders through which a full bench headed by Justice Surya Kant had directed him to submit a fact-finding report regarding the entire sanitization operation. Bench had asked him for such report after senior advocate Anupam Gupta had informed it that earlier report submitted by Panwar was merely a compilation of documents and had not given any findings.
 
 “Apparently the court commissioner has misconceived his responsibilities. He should have given his findings and inferences in his report. It is really difficult to assist the court on the basis of such report that is compilation of annexures,” Gupta had told the HC. 
 
 The three-page report has been submitted by Panwar recently to the high court administration.
 
 First confirmation report
 
 This is for the first time that a report by judicial officer has confirmed removal of material from the dera premises.
 
 Earlier on February 6, Sirsa police had informed HC that in his confessional statement, DSS IT head Vineet Kumar had told them that a senior sect functionary Balraj had taken away two vans, completely filled with cash, from the dera, a day after the violence. Earlier, then SP Sirsa Ashwin Shenvi had admitted before the HC on November 8, 2017 that there could be a possibility of some material or items being moved out of DSS from August 25 to 28.
 
 
