   took charge as DIG of Bhopal on Monday. He has succeeded Santosh Kumar Singh, who has been promoted and transferred as IG of Chambal range. DIG Choudhary was earlier posted as DIG Ratlam. He has also been SP of Vidisha district, which comes under Bhopal zone for four years, before being promoted as DIG Ratlam. Sudeept Mishra spoke to DIG Choudhary about his new assignment. Excerpts: 

  
  
 
 My priority would be to control crime against women. The prime focus would be on basic policing and effective action will be taken against goons and anti-social elements involved in crime against women. Campaigns being run by the city police to make women aware about how and where they could file complaint will be continued. Police will identify spots where such incidents have been reported or are likely to take place. Strict action will be taken against the offenders. Besides, focus would also be on maintaining law and order, crime control and implementing VIP protocols. Emphasis will be given on community policing. 
 
  
  
 
 Social media platforms can be of great help for police. The WhatsApp monitoring cell being run at the police control room will be extended to thana level. More staff would be deployed for monitoring social media platforms to counter any untoward situation at the thana-level itself. Apart from this, officers and staff will be asked to strengthen their footprint on social media platforms. 
 
  
  
 
 Traffic management is a major problem in a big city like Bhopal. With increase in population and number of vehicles on city roads, traffic management has become a challenge. Public support is necessary for improving the condition. Public meetings will be held and suggestions will be sought from people in this regard. All the measures needed to address the issue will be taken on the basis of feedback received . 
 
  
  
 
 The police is like a family to me. Senior officers should play the role of elder brother or father. Hence, discipline is necessary, but if the cops are in any stress we must deal with it properly. I am always available for my subordinates and they can come to me anytime in case they have any problem or issue. Cops would be given time for their family and leave as per the directions given by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. 
 
 
