Himanshu Roy, battling cancer, was confined to his home for the last few months. At 1.40pm on Friday, he was brought with a bullet wound to the casualty ward of Bombay Hospital.

 “He was lifeless. There was no pulse or BP,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali. 
 
 Doctors could see a bullet wound on Roy’s head and blood on the back of his neck. The police brass gathered at the hospital within an hour of the incident. 
 
 “It’s a great loss. He was an energetic officer who was loved by his staff,” said former DGP Arup Patnaik. 
  
 Roy’s first posting (1991-95) was as additional SP in   ( ) and he came into the limelight in 1994. In Mumbai, his most successful stint was as crime branch chief from 2010 to 2014. He was credited with setting up a cybercrime cell and overseeing the probe into the murder of ashipping agent,  , and the arrest of diesel smuggler Mohd Ali Shaikh. A chartered accountant by training, Roy was also noticed for his handling of economic offences. It was Roy under whose leadership the crime branch arrested the accused in the Shakti Mill gangrape case in which five youths brutalised a young female photo journalist. 
 
 
 
  
 
 Roy’s team also busted the IPL betting case and arrested over a dozen accused including  , son-in-law of cricket board president N Srinivasan, actor Vindoo Dara Singh and others. 
 
 In 2014, he and then ATS chief   became the first police officers in Mumbai to be given Z+ security. He is also credited with the arrest of Anees Ansari who allegedly conspired to blow up the American school in BKC. 
 
 Governor  , said, "Himanshu Roy was a dedicated police officer” known for “remarkable investigation skills.” “His demise is a great loss for the state police force.”
 
 Roy’s post mortem was videographed and body handed over to the family at 8.30 pm. “Death due to bullet injury to brain,” the post-mortem report said. All organs were preserved for histopathology and chemical analysis.
 
 The Marine Drive police have registered a case of accidental death and seized the weapon used by Roy. A team of forensic experts from Kalina lab also visited the building in which he lived, Suniti Apartment near Nariman Point, and collected samples.
 
 Roy is survived by his wife Bhawna, a former IAS officer who quit the service for social work.
 
 
 
 
 
