Mangaluru: The zilla panchayat auditorium here saw 270 Christian-convert families alleging that the   of Mangalore Diocese had encroached upon hundreds of acres in Jeppu and Attavar, where they had been residing. They alleged that the head of the Roman Catholic community in the diocese had been threatening them to vacate the place.

 Airing their concerns at the public grievances hearing and redressal meet held by Subhash B Adi, Upa Lokayukta, the complainants claimed that their forefathers had been residing in the said areas for the past 130 years. “We are all converts. We have been residing in survey numbers 601, 611, 612, 613, 614 and 719 granted to us by the government 130 years ago. However, Bishop Rev Fr Aloysius Paul D’Souza keeps asserting his right illegally over these properties. He has been demanding our ouster, once by demanding our signatures on the land agreements and once over perpetual lease. He has also set up a multi-storey building in the area,” one of the complainants alleged. They also submitted several documents to establish their claim.
 
 The complaint to Upa Lokayukta against the Bishop did not serve much purpose as Justice Adi said the judicial wing was concerned with government officials. Upa Lokayukta said he could take the case straight away, had the complainants made the revenue officer of the tahsildar concerned a party to the case.
 
 However on humanitarian grounds, Upa Lokayukta directed the assistant commissioner and the tahsildar to investigate the case on lines of the residential rights of complainants “in all fairness” and submit a preliminary report within 20 days. “If you are entitled for any right, we will ensure you get it,” Justice Adi assured them.
 
 Bishop’s House clarifies
 
 On the other hand, the Bishop’s House official termed the allegations frivolous and baseless. “Why should the Bishop acquire their land? They have misused the land grant given to them. They have not abided by the agreement terms. As far as the allegation of setting up a multi-storey complex is concerned, not even a single shop has been constructed in the said area. The allegations against the bishop are baseless,” said Fr William Menezes, PRO of the diocese, while speaking to TOI.
 
 
