NOIDA: The city has arguably NCR’s best fleet of   but high fares and low frequency are hurting the city shuttles launched by the   ( ). The service was launched on December 14, 2016. 

 On at least four of the seven routes running so far, buses are running with below capacity. Changes made by NMRC in routes and reducing the frequency of buses have also gone against the service. While the M1 route has been tweaked, two new routes have been launched. Drivers and conductors also say they keep hearing passengers complain about high fares.
 
 TOI had reported earlier how the bus on route 103 — from Botanical Garden to   via GIP mall, Amity University, Jaypee hospital, Sector 135, Sector 153 and Pari Chowk — is the most popular. It remains so till today. As a result, recently, number of buses on the route was increased, while bringing down ones on other, less profitable routes.
 
 “Earlier, there were 12 buses on route 103, which was slowly increased to 16, then 18 and now to 28. We make around Rs 7,000-7,500 profit per round trip,” said a driver on the route. With every bus making seven round trips a day, the route alone fetches NMRC a tidy profit of over Rs 7 lakh per day.
 
 On the flip side, number of buses on other routes has been reduced. From six buses on route M1 — from Sector 15 to Sector 62, via sectors 11, 55/56 and 12/22, Khora Labour Chowk, JSS T-point, Mamura and Fortis — the number was reduced to two.
 
 Similarly, the number of buses on route 303 — Botanical Garden to Golf Course, City Centre, sectors 34, 71 and 66, Mamura, Fortis, Sahara, Rasoolpur to Sector 62 — was reduced from 12 to four. While on route 104 — Sector 12/22 to Bhangel, DSC Road, LG Chowk, Sharda University, AWHO, Kasna — the number of buses has been reduced from eight to two. On route number 310 — Botanical Garden to Advant to KPMG — has gone down from four to two. With this, frequency of the service also fell, along with resting time for the buses between two trips — from four hours to two.
 
 The two new bus routes added are 105 and 106. While route 105 covers Sector 62-Mamura-Sector 71-Char Murti-Gaur City-Surajpur-Jagat Farms-Greater Noida Authority-Delta-Achher, route 106 covers Botanical Garden-Barola-Bhangel-Surajpur-PariChowk-Kasna.
 
 “Two buses have been rolled out on route 105 and four on route 106. However, these new routes were added by taking buses from other routes. Together, all this has led to a fall in passenger numbers. As the frequency is low, passengers don’t want to wait and take a chance,” said Sunny Kumar, who has been working as a conductor for the past six months.
 
 Drivers complain they get into trouble when passengers complain they are being overcharged. “On route 106, the charge for travel from Botanical Garden to to Pari Chowk is Rs 47, and to Kasna Rs 53. A UP Roadways bus between Botanical Garden and Pari Chowk charges only Rs 27,” said a driver on the route. Drivers also say on route 310, many passengers are very demanding, asking to be dropped at their doorstep and not at bus stops when it passes through service lanes next to societies.
 
 Passengers though complain conductors don’t make an effort to attract them. 
 
 Conductors accepted the charge, saying many don’t put an effort due to their low salaries. “We’re being paid Rs 12,000 a month. Is it enough to survive? We’re under surveillance from CCTV cameras on board. If customers don’t pay the full fare, or insist on getting off at their doorsteps, we get the rap,” said driver Nitin Kumar.
 
 NMRC executive director Atal Rai told TOI their buses shouldn’t be compared to UP Roadways buses, as they provide better quality, but admitted shorter routes were proving unviable. 
 
 
