The Indian team continues to exert its dominance over the harried South Africans and their power packed display in the first T20 game will have made the Proteas scratch their heads even more trying to figure out how to stop this rampaging team.

 
 
 
 
 Having an inexperienced new ball attack didn't help as the Proteas didn't know what hit them as Rohit Sharma and Shikhar Dhawan got the team off to a flying start. Virat Kohli then showed he can play the aerial shots as well clobber the ball into the stands. It was breathtaking stuff and it was little wonder to see the usually brilliant Proteas fielding unit dropping catches, fumbling with the ball and giving away extra runs.
 
 
 
 
 Chasing over 10 runs an over is a Herculean task for any team but was made even more mountainous by the tight opening spell from Bhuvaneshwar Kumar and Jasprit Bumrah. Though Hendricks and Behardien had a good partnership they didn't have the finishing power and India won with plenty to spare.
 
  
  
 
 The Centurion pitch will help the spinners a little more as was seen in the last one-day game last week, so Chahal will be a key bowler again in the middle overs. Virat Kohli had left the field with a niggle so hopefully he will be fully fit to pile on the misery once again for South Africans.
 
 Earlier, the Indian women let the South Africans back into the game with some thoughtless batting after the wonderful start from Smriti Mandhana and skipper Harmanpreet Kaur. In any sport it is crucial to recognise ones limitations. Harmanpreet and Mandhana can clear the boundary quite easily but the others don't seem capable of that so going for the big aerial hit is only going to get them out caught in the deep.
 
 Still player after player went for the big hits and got out, thus squandering the wonderful start that Harmanpreet and Mandhana had given them. They didn't even bat the full quota of overs about which the coach would have had a word or two with them at the end of the match.
 
 It would be terrific if both the Indian teams win at Centurion for by doing so they will seal the series and give the Proteas a lesson to remember.
 
