

 
 A. The stretch between   and the College of Agriculture will be developed. This route is 2.4-km long and 24m wide. The PMC will be developing cycle tracks, laying paving blocks and building public toilets along the stretch. As part of this project, citizens can also expect flowerbeds and better lighting along the road. These are are part of the civic body’s broader plan to make the one-way stretch friendlier for pedestrians. (Rajendra Raut, head of PMC’s roads department)
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 A. The PMC has planned an entire overhaul of the existing water supply system. Around 1,600 km of long pipelines will be replaced. This project will eliminate all leaks and other problems that are hurting the water delivery system. (VG Kulkarni, head of PMC’s water supply department)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A. The PMC has been carrying out regular cleaning of nullahs across the city. Special drives are also being conducted by the civic body’s personnel before the monsoon season. These special drives aim to reduce the threat of flash flooding and other problems that can be triggered by stagnant water or waste in the drains. ( , head of PMC’s solid waste management department) Q. What is the PMC doing to remove all abandoned cars from our roads? A child has died in Pune because of these things. Citizens are expecting effective action (K Gopinath)
 
 
 A. The PMC is set to resume its drive to remove abandoned vehicles from May. As of now, the civic body has planned an auction of vehicles that were confiscated during previous drives. The sale will create more space for vehicles that will be seized during the fresh drive set to start from next month. Also, the civic body had contacted the regional transport office seeking ownership details of these confiscated vehicles. These owners will be sent notices. If they don’t reply to these notices on time, their vehicles will be made part of the auction. ( , head of PMC’s anti-encroachment department)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A. JM Road is being developed as part of the Smart city project. The aim is to create wider footpaths. The project also hopes to increase the number of pedestrianfriendly facilities along the stretch. (Rajendra Raut)
 
