NEW DELHI: The state government will not be exempted from the ban on construction within 100 metres of a centrally protected monument, despite Tuesday’s amendment to this effect in the Ancient Monuments and Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act. The   clarified on Thursday that all projects would have to be approved by the central government after being first cleared by the  , which will assess the archaeological, visual and heritage impacts while coming to a decision.

 Reacting to the TOI story on the implications of the amendment to the Act, ministry officials said all precautions would be taken to safeguard heritage. “Only a central government project or one financed by the central government will be allowed in the prohibition zone on condition that there is no viable alternative and is necessary for public safety and security,” elaborated an official.
 
 On whether state government projects could be exempted, the officials said that the status quo for such projects remained unchanged. “The state government has to continue to accept the 100-metre ban on construction in prohibited areas. But if any state government feels the infrastructure project is necessary, it has to approach the central government for intervention,” explained an official, who stressed that all future public infrastructure projects would be allowed only after central government approval.
 
 This addendum in the amended Act effectively means that projects close to ASI monuments in Delhi undertaken by state PWD, civic agencies or other departments of the state government, including parking lots and flyovers, will not take off without the Centre’s consent. 
 
 “There have been many violations by various state governments in construction activities near monuments, so the Centre will now monitor any infrastructure development in prohibited areas. Projects also will be allowed only after NMA conducts heritage impact assessment studies,” a ministry official said.
 
 The officials cited examples like the construction of a parallel bridge next to Shivaji Bridge on the Panchganga near the heritage site of Brahmapuri in Kohlapur to underline why the Act needed to be amended. “The parallel bridge was necessary because the British-era Shivaji Bridge was over a century old and represented a risk given the increased traffic flow. The Kolkata Metro project too cannot be stalled,” said an official.
 
 
