In the latest episode of  , Bapu Ji says thank you to   for Masala milk. The latter tells him he is going to the shop. He gets a call from   again, who begins to praise him. Jethalal thinks he has dialed the wrong number, and wants to talk to Bawri, his girlfriend. He disconnects the call but Bagha dials again. This time Jetha asks him to talk straight.

 Bagha then tells him that he came early to the shop. While he is talking over the phone, Bagha asks Bawri not to interrupt him. Jetha hears this and asks him to send her away. Jetha then senses Bagha might want an off, but he warns him not to take a leave as they have to dispatch products of two clients. Bagha is unable to say anything further. He ends the call.
 
 Bawri tells Bagha it is a special day for them as they complete 1500 days together and they shall celebrate it by watching a movie at 4 pm. When he says it won’t be possible and they will go another day, she insists they watch it today itself. She threatens to break ties with him if he doesn’t come and leaves.
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, Jetha decides to give Gulab Pakh to Iyer since he caused him so much trouble. On his way, he meets Taarak and gives him the sweets to taste. Anjali comes out and Taarak begins to hide himself as he doesn’t want her to know he has eaten something unhealthy. Just then, Dr Haathi comes as he could sniff the smell of sweets. Taarak and Jetha’s lie is caught. Dr Hathi and Anjali Bhabhi too eat Gulab Pakh and they all tell Jetha that they like it a lot.
 
 They are joined by Iyer and Babita. Jetha offers them the treats as well. Iyer finds them a little sweet. Jetha asks Babita where she is going so early in the morning. She tells him she is going to meet a friend. Iyer says he should leave for office, Jetha offers to drop him and Mehta. 
  
 Bagha is worried at the shop as Nattu Kaka enters. He tells him why he hasn’t organised all the items. Bagha confides his problem in Nattu Kaka. The latter tells him a half day seems impossible as even Manga has hurt his hand.
 
 Will Bagha be able to take a half day? Keep watching this space for more updates on Taarak Mehta Ka Ooltah Chashmah.
 
 
