THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   unit of the   will stand united behind the   document that treats   party as an electoral untouchable.

 The state leadership has already voiced its strong opposition to the party general secretary Sitaram  's call for political tie-up with the Congress. The only voice of dissent came from the nonagenarian V S Achuthandandan who shot off a letter to the party central committee, justifying Yechury's position.
 
 Though leaders here claim that its a strategic move to ensure the growth of CPM in Kerala where Congress is still the major opponent, the real reason is an act of thanksgiving by CM   Vijayan.
 
 When the SNC-Lavalin scam came up,   and SRP supported Vijayans continuance as the state secretary. Achuthanandan, his bete noir, had pressed for the removal of Pinarayi Vijayan till he cleared the charges, with the support of Yechury. At that time, Vijayan won the battle with the generous help of Karat and SRP. 
 
  There is nothing wrong in forming an alliance with any political party, including the Congress, to fight the communal forces in the country, 94-year-old Achuthanandan is believed to have written in his letter to the CC.
 
  "He has sent a letter to the CC. His opinion regarding the on-going debate over how close the party should get to the Congress in the fight against communal forces has been made clear in it. Obviously, the stand taken by Yechury on the issue appeared more palatable to him at this juncture," sources close to Achuthanandan told TOI.
 
 It may be noted that the CPM in Kerala had earlier opposed the Congress proposal to support the re-entry of Yechury to Rajya Sabha. Yechury had come to the rescue of the veteran leader on several occasions when the official faction of the party led by Pinarayi Vijayan demanded strict disciplinary action against the former chief minister. On Thursday too, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan ruled out any electoral tie-up with the Congress. A larger platform to fight the BJP is needed, but that doesn't mean that CPM should enter into electoral tie-ups with the Congress, Pinarayi said while addressing the party cadres in connection with the CPM Ernakulam district conference on Thursday.
 
 Party conferences in Kerala from branch to districts have been so planned that either Pinarayi Vijayan or state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan monitored each step. This was to ensure that the Pinarayi faction should get total dominance among delegates to Hyderabad party congress. In the event of a voting, Kerala delegates will support Karat document en masse.
 
 The third PB member from the state, MA Baby, had no role in party conferences as he is aligned more close to Yechuri and Vijayan doubts his loyalty.
 
 Being a major political force that is considered as the only alternative to the Congress-led UDF coalition in the state, it is natural that the party in Kerala would not like to indulge in friendship with Congress, at least in the open.
 
 
