MYSURU/ HASSAN: The sheer scale of the Mahamastakabishekha, the once-in-12-year ritual of anointing the massive monolithic statue of Lord Bahubali at Shravanabelagola, demands meticulous planning. Although the anointing is held for nine days between February 17 and 26, planning for the event kicks off at least two years in advance.

 The religious event is performed as per scriptures by Jain seers from across India. This year’s event, the 88th Mahamastakabishekha, is expected to draw about 40 lakh visitors. Temporary townships with scientific waste disposal systems have been built, massive temporary kitchens and dining halls, that can each seat 10,000 at one go, have been set up to provide meals for visitors. Right from the water used for the abishekha, to the scaffolding from where the abishekha is performed, everything is planned to the minutest detail.
 
 Shravanabelagola’s Charukeerthi Bhattaraka Swamiji revealed that since the first Mahamastakabishekha in 981 A.D, the ceremony has been performed once in 12 years.
 
 "Generally we begin preparations two years in advance,” the seer said. “Most tyagis and munis walk to Shravanabelagola. And they come from across the country. This alone takes months. It is a big event. Even though the Mahamastakabishekha ceremony is over by February 26, the other work needs about two years to be completed. That is why it was decided that this event be held once in 12 years.”
 
 The statue is bathed and anointed with purified water, sugar cane juice, milk and a paste of saffron, sandalwood, vermilion and turmeric powders apart from several other ingredients. On the first day of the Mahamastakabishekha, 108 Kalasas (purified vessels containing the abishekha ingredients) is offered. From the second day onwards, 1008 Kalasabhisheka are performed. Pure water from river Hemavati is specially used for the Kalasas which are then offered to Lord Bahubali.
 
 As in previous years, thousands of tyagis, munis and saints have already arrived for this year’s event. "Generally, they reach Shravanabelagola by walk,” said Deekshit Jain, a devotee from Hubballi. “Along the way, they preach about the importance of nonviolence, sacrifice and other Jain philosophies. Some of them start their journey nearly a year in advance to ensure they reach Shravanabelagola on time. Hundreds of Jain monks are now in Shravanabelagola. It is a rare opportunity to meet all of them together and take blessings.” It is one of the things that makes this event unique.
 
 
