MOTIHARI: In a bid to check frequent confrontations between people on bordering areas and rapid encroachment of no-man’s land, officials of India and Nepal led by their field survey teams (FST) met in   on Saturday and decided to repair and re-erect the damaged and missing pillars meant for border demarcation.

 While top administrative officials of Motihari, Bettiah and   (SSB) represented the Indian side, administrative officials from   and   districts of Nepal attended the meeting.
 
 East Champaran DM Raman Kumar ,West Champaran DM N R Deware, East Champaran SP Upendra Kumar Sharma along with forest officials represented the Indian side and Nepal was represented by chief district officer (CDO) of Bara and Parsa along with other officials .
 
 It may be mentioned here that Indian and Nepalese governments had erected around 8,000 pillars to demarcate the boundary along the 1,749-kilometer border. However, with passage of time, most of these pillars have been damaged or have gone missing. This has led to massive encroachments and infiltration of people into each others’ territories with the no-man’s land in several areas virtually disappearing.
 
 At the Saturday meeting, officials of both countries resolved to end all contentions issues related to border through bilateral discussion and re-instate the pillars at their actual locations as suggested by the two survey teams.
 
 Both sides also agreed to call a meeting of FST at Bara in Nepal soon to discuss further course of action and resolve any issues related to the survey.
 
 The resolution signed by both the nations said that the pillar repairing, erection and the ongoing survey work would be intensified at many locations. If need be, the two survey teams would carry out a fresh survey for identification and fixing of missing pillars.
 
 Motihari DM Raman Kumar, who had attended the meeting, said, directions have been issued to SSB, circle officers and sub-divisional officers to monitor the pillar construction works and initiate punitive action against people who have encroached no-man’s land. 
 
 
