AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has submitted its chargesheet for the two alleged murders aboard Henry II, the ship from which 1,500kg of heroin was seized off Porbandar coast by the   on July 30, 2017. While the drug seizure investigation was handed over to the Narcotics Control Bureau, the   probe was taken over by Gujarat ATS.

 The chargesheet filed at a Porbandar court tells a tale of intrigue, murder and treachery on board Henry II when the ship was in the Red Sea. Henry II had set sail from Bandar Abbas — an Iranian port on the Strait of Hormuz. On its way, it picked up 1,500kg of heroin from near Gwadar port in Baluchistan province of Pakistan for delivery at Sharm El Sheikh port in Egypt. 
 
 The captain of the ship,  , decided to double cross the ship’s Iranian owner, Syed Ali Moniri and Khalid Mohammed Hassan, a druglord from Baluchistan, and sell the drugs, reportedly worth Rs 6,000 crore in the international market, to a third party in Mumbai for Rs 50 crore.
 
 “To execute this plan, Tiwari, and seven other crew members killed Iranian national Murtuza Sarkouhee, an associate of Moniri, and Khalid Mohammed Hassan — a member of the Baluchistan drug syndicate which had loaded the heroin on the ship. The ship was later intercepted by the Indian Coast Guard ship Samudra Pavak some 150 nautical miles off the coast of Porbandar, after midnight on July 30, 2017,” said a senior ATS official.
 
 ATS has named eight accused, Suprit Tiwari, Manish Patel, Dinesh Yadav, Vinay Yadav, Anurag Sharma, Mohnish Kumar, Devish Kumar and Sanjay Yadav for the murders Sarkouhee and Hassan.
 
 The Gujarat ATS chargesheet says that after making secret cavities in the diesel tank of the ship to hide the heroin, the ship anchored about 70 nautical miles away from Gwadar port in Baluchistan. It then sailed from Chabahar port of Iran with Sarkouhee and Khalid on board.
 
 “1,500kg of heroin was loaded on the ship by two speedboats. The contraband was to be delivered to Egypt. However, captain Suprit had other ideas. He and the crew, contacted  , a resident of Mumbai, and struck a deal to sell the heroin for Rs 50 crore in Mumbai. The ship thus had to change course towards India,” said an ATS official.
 
 According to the ATS chargesheet, Khalid was addicted heroin and often got into scuffles with crew members. The chargesheet says Sarkouhee had to call up Moniri and give Khalid a dose of heroin to calm him down.
 
 “On July 26, 2017, Khalid stabbed a crew member, Divesh Kumar, in his back. Khalid was then tied up and dumped on the deck. When Sarkouhee noticed Khalid was tied up, he started questioning Tiwari, which escalated to a fight. Tiwari took this chance and pushed Sarkouhee into the sea somewhere near the  . They then tied Hassan to an old pump and threw him into the sea,” added an ATS official.
 
 The chargesheet says Sarkouhee and Khalid’s names were struck off the boarding list made at Chabahar port by Tiwari. Gujarat ATS obtained the original list which had Sarkouhee and Hassan.
 
 “This is an important piece of evidence for us, because when the ship was intercepted by the ICG, the two were not on board, despite their names being on the boarding list,” said an ATS official.
 
 ATS writes to iran and pakistan authorities
 
 Gujarat ATS has written to authorities in Iran and Pakistan, through ministry of external affairs (MEA) to get more information on their nationals Murtuza Sarkouhee and Khalid Mohammed Hassan, respectively. “We are waiting for Iran and Pakistan to give us more information on both. The information could prove vital evidence to prove that both were allegedly murdered on board by the crew members said an ATS official.
 
 Tiwari and vishal had an eye on ship breaking commission
 
 ATS officials said that as the ship did not have enough diesel to travel to Mumbai, Vishal Yadav had roped in Irfan Shaikh of Mumbai who had directed Suprit to Alang ship-breaking yard near Bhavnagar in Gulf of Cambay. “Both Yadav and Captain Suprit had an eye on the commission of Rs 10 to 15 lakh they were to get for handing over the ship for dismantling,” said an ATS official.
 
 Cook iftekhar alam spilled the beans
 
 The ATS chargesheet has recorded the statement of the ship’s cook, Iftekhar Alam, under Section 164 of CrPC. Alam, who hails from West Bengal, was on board the ship till Gwadar port of Baluchistan. “He has said that when the ship left Gwadar port both Sarkouhee and Khalid were present on the ship. Our main question is that if both were on board when the ship left Gwadar port, where did they disappear when the ship was intercepted by ICG off Porbandar Coast?” said an ATS official.
 
 
