LUCKNOW: In a one-of-its kind love story that crossed several obstacles, an   is all set to get engaged to the   through her struggles. The ceremony will be held at Lucknow’s Sheroes Hangout cafe on Valentine’s Day.

 Pramodini Raul, also called  , was only 16 when an official from an Army camp in the vicinity of her school developed a liking for her. After stalking her for months, the man threw acid on the girl when her family rejected the 28-year-old’s proposal of marriage on April 18, 2009, as she returned home after taking her board examination.
 
 The acid burnt 80% of Rani’s body, left her completely blind, in the ICU for nine months and on bed for the next five years till 2014. “Even my family, except my mother, had given up on me when my friends took me to a private medical facility for treatment. There, I was introduced to   Sahoo, who was a medical representative and friends with the hospital nurses. He started coming to meet me every day at the hospital and giving me support.”
 
 Doctors then told Rani that she would only be able to walk after five years, with all the neural damage the acid had done to her, but Saroj challenged himself that he would help Rani walk in just four months. “I left my job that day and gave her all mental and emotional support that I knew she needed at a time when she was abandoned by her own family. I made her walk, kept her foot on my shoulders, on my feet and in four months, she had started to walk a few steps,” said Saroj.
 
 Rani, in her desire to make something out of her life, went to Delhi in January 2016 but realised soon that she had feelings for Saroj. “He proposed to me on January 14, 2016, but then I was completely blind and could not keep him in the dark with me. I was operated upon in July 2017 in Chennai and have got back 20% of vision in my left eye, so now we are getting engaged,” she said ecstatically.
 
 It was only in November 2017, with intervention from Chhanv Foundation and Stop Acid Attack campaign, that she met Orissa chief minister Naveen Patnaik and got her culprit behind bars. “Kashmir, Kolkata and Orissa police got involved and the Army official was arrested on November 25, 2017,” said Saroj amid preparations for Rani’s dance for the engagement in Lucknow on February 14.
 
 
