MUMBAI: The bandh on Wednesday caused grave   and students who were in the middle of the pre-board examinations. While most schools had declared Wednesday a holiday late on Tuesday night, many did stay open in the absence of instructions from the school education department.

 As the situation worsened during the day, schools asked parents to take students home earlier than scheduled. Several junior colleges had to cancel the prelims exam for class XII students. “Looking at the situation, we thought students would be very inconvenienced and their safety would be at risk too. So we decided to postpone it,” said  , principal, Mithibai College, Vile Parle. At Shailendra Education Society, Dahisar, the junior college had to postpone prelims due to low attendance.
 
 Sudam Kumbhar, principal of the school, said, “Not a single student of the secondary section came to school. A few junior college students came in but some complained that they were stuck in traffic.”
 
 At Hansraj Morarji Public School, Andheri, the school had to cancel the science practical exams for class X students. The school had declared a holiday early on Wednesday morning as school buses refused to ply.
 
 Schools in several parts of the city — both central and western suburbs — had sent out messages to parents late on Tuesday night. The ones that did not sent messages to parents late in day. The Goenka Educational Trust, Goregaon, did not announce a holiday, with the result that a large number of students did go to school but by 11 am parents were informed to come and fetch their wards.
 
 “Students who had gone to school by school buses were dropped back within half an hour as the buses were stopped on the   road, Western Express Highway and not allowed to proceed,” said a parent.
 
 Parents who went to pick up students were blocked at several locations by protesters making it difficult to get to school. Schools which faced a harrowing time to ensure students went home safely. Mahalaxmi DM, a resident of   was an eye witness to one such incident. “Around 1 pm students were standing inside the school premises opposite our house on LBS Marg and some of the tried to get into a rickshaw. Suddenly agroup of protesters got into an argument with the driver on why he was on the road. School authorities had to rush to intervene and take back all students into the campus,” she said.
 
 Schools in Vasai-Virar and Mira-Bhayander began their day as usual but had to shut down by noon. School education minister   said his department had decided not to declare aholiday in order to avoid creating panic.
 
