MYSURU: After CM Siddaramaiah's roadshow in  , former CM and JD(S) chief H D   is leading the party's campaign, visiting nearly 100 villages during his roadshow starting Saturday. 

 On Day 1 of his tour, he will visit 27 villages dotting the segment to take on his bete noire, while Kumaraswamy will seek to reconnect with the people by specifically visiting those villages where he had pitched tent as part of the Village Stay programme, when he was CM.
 
 On Sunday, he is scheduled to visit Dodda Kanya, where he spent the night at a Lingayat supporter's house while campaigning for the Chamundeshwari bypoll in 2006. He will visit 33 villages on April 15 and 38 on April 16, an aide of JD(S) candidate G T Devegowda told TOI.
 
 The JD(S) leaders said the three-day tour is devised to take on the  , which is seeking to make inroads into its stronghold. For the record, Kumaraswamy launched his state tour in December, holding a meet at Lingadevara Kopplu in Chamundeshwari segment. 
 
 Kumaraswamy will start campaigning at Chamundeshwari from Hinkal at 8am. During his three-day tour, he will hold conventions at Lingambudipalya, Nadanahalli, Hootagalli and Gungral Chatra, the JD(S) candidate's home turf.
 
 Interestingly, while Kumaraswamy tours the segment, the CM will start his campaign on Monday. His campaign managers have devised a two-day tour programme during which Siddaramaiah will visit 18 villages.
 
  The CM will check into the city on Monday night, and hit the streets early Tuesday morning, one of his poll managers told TOI. He will focus on campaigning in Chamundeshwari for two days and is also planning to visit Varuna, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP leader B Y  , the son of state BJP chief B S Yeddyurappa, rented a house in Varuna segment and conducted a puja to shift to his new base. This is to convey to voters that he means business, and will stay put in the segment. Given that he was dubbed an outsider by CM Siddaramaiah, the BJP leader rented the house at Varuna village, one of his aides told TOI. Besides Vijayendra, who is keen to contest from Varuna, his wife Prema and some family members of Yeddyurappa, including his daughter  , attended the puja.
 
 After the puja, he left to campaign at Tagadur block in Nanjangud taluk.
 
  Congress leader Yathindra Siddaramaiah, his opponent, continued his padayatra in the segment after briefly attending a meet where progressive activists and writers lent their support to the CM. 
 
 
