Mysuru: The thoroughfares and bylanes of Northwest Mysuru could not have been more removed than the vast classrooms that Prof. KS   must have spent hours lecturing to students in. But, the former vice-chancellor of the University of Mysore (UoM), an academician for three-and-a-half decades, is now a candidate for the JD(S) from the  , and the scientist is all set to face his litmus test on the hustings.

 Although a greenhorn in the domain, Rangappa averred that he had a clear understanding of politics. Rangappa, who went about the segment knocking on doors and calling on voters, said, “I have a clear understanding of politics. I am familiar with how politics works, as I have seen it even in the corridors of higher education institutions.”
 
 Ever since it came into being in 1978, Chamaraja constituency has been represented by a Vokkaliga. Rangappa, a relative of former Prime Minister and JD(S) national president HD Deve Gowda, hopes to wrest the segment from the Congress incumbent Vasu. In 2013, Shankarlinge Gowda had made a bid for the seat on JD(S) ticket, and lost. Following his death, Harish Gowda had emerged as a strong contender within the JD(S) for the ticket, but the party leadership opted for Rangappa – Harish has since quit the party, and is fighting the polls as an Independent.
 
 On the campaign trail in BM Sri Nagar, Ward 29 in the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC), which the JD(S) lost a slender margin to the Congress, Rangappa met voters seeking their support. Krishnegowda, a factory worker who resides in the locality, said that the area remained largely loyal to JD(S) despite the result of the local polls.
 
 Rangappa paid a visit to the homes of local leaders such as ‘Patel’ Venkatappa, to seek their support. His personal touch was greeted warmly by voters, who were also impressed with his tireless campaign. Despite his followers’ remonstration, Rangappa halted very briefly – for breakfast (ragi rotti). Former mayors R Lingappa and MJ Ravikumar and Rangappa’s son Shreyas accompanied him as he toured the segment.
 
 Rangappa, who starts his tour as early as 7am, has, like Deve Gowda, taken to a vegan diet, to remain healthy. On the response he received from those he met, Rangappa, a native of KR Nagar taluk in Mysuru, said, “They are happy at the prospect of an academician representing them. My aim is to get the polling percentage up by at least 10% in the segment, since only 49% of them voted in the last election. ”
 
 “We have the most number of council seats from the Chamaraja segment – 11. But we are falling short when we contest the assembly polls. We are hopeful of a win this time,” Ravikumar said.
 
 After remaining loyal to the BJP – Shankarlinge Gowda held the segment for 19 years before he jumped ship to the JD(S) and lost the seat in 2013 – the segment fell into the hands of the Congress, with Vasu emerging victorious. The erstwhile Janata Party, a precursor of the JD(S), has managed to win the seat on four occasions, but winning the seat will be an uphill battle for Rangappa. JD(S) is also dealing with the fallout over the decision to field Rangappa over Harish Gowda, who is expected to make things tougher for the former UoM V-C.
 
 Asserting that he would address the root of the people’s problems, Rangappa said, “Providing good roads, drains, lights and drinking water can be done in a matter of days. These are not the solutions to people’s problems. There is unemployment, illiteracy and problems of social security. Around 40% of the electorate in the segment is uneducated, and their living conditions are bad. I want to become their voice. It will be made possible only by strengthening the education system.”
 
 Vokkaligas are the majority community in the segment, with nearly 70,000 voters belonging to the caste, while nearly 36,000 Scheduled Caste communities and around 22,000 Muslims are respectively the second and third largest communities in the constituency. Nayakas (14,000) and Lingayats (10,000) are the other dominant communities that can decide the outcome of the election in the segment.
 
 
