On Thursday,  , author of 
 , put up a tweet in which she accused   of forcibly kissing her.

 
 
 
 In a following tweet she said she 'avoided literary functions and posted no photos of myself online in order to avoid people like Díaz'. Her tweet sparked a   movement as several other opened up to uncomfortable incidents with Diaz on Twitter, including author of 
 ,  .
 
 
 
 
 Junot Díaz is a well known author. He is also the professor of creative writing at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and fiction editor at Boston Review. 
 
 His 2007 book 
  won several awards including the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. Being a Dominican American who wrote about a Dominican character, he's quite loved by the Latinx community for being their high profile author.
 
 Last month, he wrote an essay in the New Yorker where he admitted he was raped as a child and elaborated on how that shaped him and affected all his furture relationships. The essay called 'The Silence: The Legacy of Childhood Trauma', was descibed as 'brave' and 'moving'. However in light of these accusations the true intent behind the timing of this essay is being questioned as well as the fact that he admits to hurting people in it.
 
 “I take responsibility for my past,” Junot Díaz said in a statement to the New York Times, “That is the reason I made the decision to tell the truth of my rape and its damaging aftermath. This conversation is important and must continue. I am listening to and learning from women’s stories in this essential and overdue cultural movement. We must continue to teach all men about consent and boundaries.”
 
 He was expected to participate in Sydney Writers’ festival this weekend but following these accusations he cancelled his plans.
 
 “Sydney Writers’ festival is a platform for the sharing of powerful stories: urgent, necessary and sometimes difficult,” the festival organisers said in a statement. “Such conversations have never been more timely. We remain committed to ensuring they occur in a supportive and safe environment for our authors and audiences.”
 
