GURUGRAM: The   has asked   to file details of   it has allotted over the past two years, taking cognisance of the numerous petitions filed before it, in which Huda has been accused of favouring influential people when allotting alternative plots, leaving commoners in the lurch for years.

 Six petitions were filed in 2017 by people who have been waiting for several years (and in some cases decades) to receive their allotment of alternative plots, alleging partiality by the urban development authority. For example, Arun Kumar Arora’s petition claims over the years, Huda has been arbitrarily allotting alternative plots to influential people, ahead of those without influence who were earlier allotted disputed plots.
 
 The issue cropped up when years ago, Huda, after allotted plots in lucky draws to applicants, and collecting the price from them, failed to give them possession of the plot for one reason or another. In some cases, applicants did not get possession due to prior litigation on the land, or other issues.
 
 On February 7, the two-judge bench of justices Ajay Kumar Mittal and Anupinder Singh Grewal had said Huda has to file details of all alternative plots which have been allotted in lieu of disputed plots allotted earlier, during the period 01.01.2016 and 31.01.2018, failing which the Huda chief administrator would have to appear in-person on the next date of hearing.
 
 Hemant Kumar, whose plot allotment in sector 57 has been delayed since 2004, said in the meanwhile, Huda has allotted plots with regularity, but only to influential people.
 
  “I tried to access the list of fresh   via RTI, but Huda thwarted my attempt and blocked the information,” said Kumar.
 
 Hemant Kumar had applied for a plot in the newly-carved Sector 57 in 2004. “Huda allotted us plots knowing that a chunk of the land was under litigation. Of course it then failed to give possession. Following a high court direction in February 2014, it then conducted a fresh draw and allotted alternative plots in Sector 50. Once again, the land was disputed. Once again, we didn’t get possession,” said Kumar.
 
 He said while private developers are facing heat for delays, Huda, a government developer, has escaped censure. “The department should be made accountable for the delay and the problems we’re facing,” said Kumar. 
 
 Huda estate officer 2 Vivek Kalia said allotment of alternative plots have been made following direction of the high court. Recently, the authority had restored plots to nearly 150 original allottees in Sector 50, after being ordered to do so by the court. “The chief administrator held a meeting on Friday on the topic, and we’re preparing a comprehensive list of allotments we’ve made so far,” said Kalia.
 
 He also said Huda is planning to allot alternative plots to all people affected by disputed allotments in one go. According to an estimate, that list includes over 200 people in Gurugram alone. 
 
 Kalia further said there are some cases where plots originally allotted were disputed or irregular in shape, etc. “We’re preparing a comprehensive list of all affected allottees to send to head office,” said Kalia, adding the department is working to resolve all cases.
 
 
