Madurai: The AIADMK would never abandon its ideology to retain power in the state and the government it runs was maintaining a good relationship with the Centre keeping in mind the welfare of the state, said chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami at the MGR centenary celebrations held in Dindigul on Sunday. Responding to DMK working president M K Stalin’s statement that the AIADMK government was functioning as a branch of the BJP, he said that it was the DMK which functioned with a chameleon attitude by changing allies over and over again. “The AIADMK is the only party with strong principles and ideology which are deep-rooted. We will never give up on them to retain our government,’’ he said. ``We have conducted the centenary celebrations of MGR in 30 districts as per the wish of Amma in record time, and are also ensuring good governance,’’ he said, adding that he and the deputy chief minister were working round-the-clock to clear files. Tamil Nadu was leading in education and enrolment in primary education had gone up to 99.20 per cent thanks to the action taken by the government. The state was also leading in health and agriculture. He said that it was Dindigul which helped MGR to enter politics and the ``irrattai illai’’ to register its major victory.  Palaniswami said that the Kudimaramathu scheme to desilt water bodies in the state had received good response from the farmers who wanted it to be continued. Hence, steps would be taken to desilt 2,065 tanks at a cost of Rs 300 crore. He said the government would take steps to releases life convicts who served more than 10 years in state prisons in connection with MGR centenary on humanitarian grounds as per norms. In his speech, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam said that DMK was synonymous with treachery, deceit and disloyalty. In a veiled reference to actor Rajinikanth’s proclaimed entry into politics, deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha, M Thamidurai, said that nobody could become another MGR or emulate him on showing compassion for the people and the state.