GUWAHATI: Shooting for ' ' ( ) - the debut Assamese film of 'Lunchbox' producer Shahnaab Alam and the latest venture by director   - has come to an end. The film has been shot almost entirely in and around Kaziranga, Bokakhat and Guwahati. The film's plot is a dramatic retelling of actual incidents and has Zerifa Wahid and Seema Biswas in lead roles. 

 "I've harboured a desire to produce a film in Assamese too, primarily because I belong to   and there is an abundance of interesting stories from the northeastern part of our country still waiting to be adapted to cinema. Above all, to be able to work with a master auteur and storyteller par excellence like Jahnu Barua was a chance of a lifetime and a great honour not to be missed," an elated Alam told TOI. 
 
 "As expected, working with Jahnu da was a daily masterclass in filmmaking. Also, the fact that he is so clear and focused on what he wants to achieve and portray made the entire experience of shooting extremely smooth and highly enjoyable," he added. 
 
 Alam, though originally from Assam, is based in Mumbai and has been associated with some highly acclaimed projects like 'Dhoom', 'Monsoon Shootout', Imtiaz Ali's 'Socha Na Tha', Anurag Kashyap's 'Ugly' and Hansal Mehta's 'Omerta' over the years.
 
 The film will now begin its editing and post-production phase in Mumbai and is expected to be ready for release towards the end of this year. Easterly  , under which banner the film is being produced, plans to further collaborate with a film company associated with a prominent film personality to explore the international market for the film.
 
 Besides Zerifa and Seema Biswas, Joy Kashyap, a talented actor-musician based in Mumbai, plays the role of the male protagonist in 'Bhoga Khidikee'. Brothers Bishnu Khargoriya and Sanjay Khargoriya play important roles in the film. Mohommed Ali Shah,  's nephew, also has an interesting role to play in the film. 'Bhoga Khidikee' also features Kasvi Sharma, who played Tejimola in the film 'Kotha Nodi'.
 
 Zerifa, one of the highest rated actors of the state, has said her experience on the sets of 'Bhoga Khidikee' was special. "As an actor and working as the protagonist of the film, I feel this was an opportunity of a lifetime. I'll have no regret taking retirement after this film because I'm so content working with the master filmmaker Jahnu Baruah and in an extremely professional set up led by producer Shahnaab Alam," Zerifa told TOI.
 
 
