RAIPUR: After Chhattisgarh lost the battle for Geographical Indication (GI) tag of ‘its own Kadaknath chicken” to Madhya Pradesh, the farmers of tribal Bastar are organising a unique marriage ceremony for the rare black   
 
 
 
 The baraat will begin from Hiranar to culminate at SBI chowk where arrangements have been made for the ceremony. The invitation card reads that officers and employees of Kadaknath project in Dantewada would be among the hosts.
 
 The unique marriage ceremony of chickens has generated a controversy with some local opposition Congress leaders accuse the administration of indulging in gimmickry and wastage of money. However, Dr Narayan Sahu of Krishi Vigyan Kendra says that the wedding was totally being organized by poultry farmers with department’s knowledge.
 
 Dantewada is a tribal region and the tribes celebrate every season, seasonal fruits, crops, trees as festival. So, marriage of black-feathered chickens isn’t awkward here, though it’s happening for the first time,” Sahu said.
 
 Talking to TOI, Ludru Nag, district president of Dantewada poultry farms and also family of groom ‘Kaliya’ said, “We perform weddings of frogs too but the thought of marrying our own Kadaknath dawned when the extinction of female hens came under control and they returned to their normal population. We felt it should be celebrated. It’s also an initiative to spread awareness among people and inbuilt a feeling of belongingness towards Kadaknath hens.”
 
 Ludru clarified that the tribals don’t object over Madhya Pradesh getting the Geographical Indication tag of Kadaknath, as it had been equally theirs too as they have been rearing these chicken since decades. Despite GI tag belonging to neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, the people here think that Kadaknath is of their own, he said adding that this celebration is to send out a message that people here still consider Kadaknath as their own.
 
 He said that the engagement of ‘Kaliya’ and ‘Sundari’ has was solaced last week and a grand wedding is scheduled 
 
 
 “We are marrying off our Kaliya to a relative’s place and bring the bride to our house. About 150 committees of poultry and cattle farmers have come together and contributed cash, crops, grains to conduct the wedding, we have also sought support from government departments”, he added.
 
  Ludru Nag added that it was an excuse for all the community members to gather and celebrate while they also aim to expand Kadaknath rearing extensively in the region.
 
 Kadaknath hens had been recently in news when MP won the GI tag for it mainly found in tribal district of Jhabua even as Chhattisgarh had been trumpeting its claim over chickens’ belonging.
 
 Kadaknath had great demand in market for its taste, low cholesterol and high protein content. It sells at around Rs 500 per kg.
 
 
 
