MUMBAI: Exactly a year after he missed his first IM norm in Sharjah, 12-year-old   cleared his third and final norm to become Maharashtra’s youngest International Master (IM) in the second edition of   Masters International   Championship on Friday.

 
 Raunak, however, is just a couple of tournaments and a mere 16 rating points away from becoming Nagpur’s second and state’s youngest IM. To become an IM, a player is required to clear three norms and maintain a rating 2400 Elo points.
 
 With Raunak, city’s 19-year wait for the second IM will come to an end. Anup Deshmukh is the only IM in city, who achieved that feat way back in 1999.
 
 In the second edition of Sharjah Masters meet, Raunak started as a 51st seed and after posting victories in four rounds, three draws and two defeats collected 5.5 points to finish the nine-round meet at the 31st rank.
 
 With 2358 Elo points in his kitty, Raunak delivered a performance rating of 2410 for the desired finish. He earned 26 rating points in Sharjah to take his tally of Elo points to 2384. Last year at Pardubice, Czech Republic, Raunak cleared his first IM norm and in February, at the age of 12 years and one month, he achieved the second norm at Gibraltar. Within eight months, Raunak cleared all the three requisite norms of becoming an IM.
 
 No wonder, Raunak, who is the world No. 13 in the U-14 category, was elated to become IM-elect.
 
 “I am very relaxed now. It’s a fantastic feeling. However, my journey has just begun. It’s just a stepping stone towards my final destination towards my goal of becoming Super Grandmaster. I wish to thank my coach Swapnil (Dhopade) sir who kept me motivating me and helped me to become fearless, no matter whosoever in my opponent,” Raunak told TOI from Sharjah.
 
 His coach  , who is region’s only Grandmaster, was happy for his ward. “I am very happy. I know how hard his parents have worked. I am really happy for them. Finally our hard work has paid off,” Dhopade said.
 
 Raunak’s consistent performance can be gauged from the fact that he became a Candidate Master in 2015 and within two years he was city’s youngest Fide Master.
 
 Dhopade, who was busy with his tournament in Mexico prepared his ward quite well. “He is capable of even more but he had mental block against higher-rated players. He usually used to play safe against higher-rated rivals, which limited his creative moves. That was the reason of his average performance in previous tournament in Dubai,” he said.
 
 “I told Raunak to be fearless. He played many interesting games in Sharjah and my favourite was a draw against Iran’s Alireza Firouza, which was a very complicated game. Raunak forced the experienced Iran master for a draw,” Dhopade said.
 
 In 2016, Nuber Sheikh of Thane became the youngest IM from Maharashtra at the age of 18.
 
 Raunak, a student of Centre Point School, Katol Road, had a great outing in Sharjah. His early defeat in the second round to Belarus GM was crucial. “I learned quite a few thing lessons which I corrected in my remaining rounds.”
 
 Now, he has achieved the IM norm, Raunak wants more. “I want to fulfill my dream of becoming country’s top GM just like (Viswanathan) Anand Sir,” he said.
 
 For Raunak’s parents, Bharat and   it’s a proud moment. “It’ is quite phenomenal. He keeps on making us proud day by day. This is the result of his extreme hard work, dedication, never give up attitude, passion and love for his favourite game. It's great to see him climb upwards towards his goal. We are very much sure he will make it big in the years to come,” the proud mother said. 
 
