Nagpur: After taking no action in a rape complaint for a month, Nandanvan police rushed to register a case on Monday after the survivor attempted to end her life by drinking poison. The cops also arrested the accused, 29-year-old Rahul Meshram, on Tuesday, a day after he married another woman. The delay by cops resulted in the 22-year-old survivor failing in her attempt to force the accused to fulfil his promise of marrying her. The accused had exploited the survivor sexually over the last three years by promising marriage. The survivor was desperate enough to consume pesticide since Meshram, who earns livelihood as driver, had exploited her for over three years since January 2016 by promising to marry her. She was also made to undergo abortions on at least two occasions. The survivor had been introduced to Meshram by a relative. Meshram had first exploited her at his residence at Vrundaban Nagar on January 14, 2016. He continued to exploit the survivor till April 22, when she came to know that Meshram had got engaged to another woman on April 4. Despite his engagement, Meshram had taken the survivor and some friends to Pachmarhi in Madhya Pradesh on April 20. The survivor had been exploited at Pachmarhi too, before she happened to see photographs of Meshram’s engagement in the mobile phone. The survivor had immediately approached Nandanvan police station on April 25, with social activist Sunita Thakre. However, cops did not register a complaint since the accused promised to marry the complainant in a joint statement to the cops on April 27. The survivor went to the cops again in May first week, when Meshram threatened her with dire consequences when she confronted him about marriage again. This time the cops had filed only a non-cognizable offence against Meshram for cheating and threatening. Finally, disappointed by the lack of response from the cops, the survivor consumed poison on Monday, a day before Meshram’s marriage with the other woman. She claimed in her statement in hospital that woman sub-inspector M Waghare did not help her. On the contrary, PSI Waghare allegedly tried to dissuade her from following up on her complaint. Senior PI MD Nalawade of Nandanvan police station said that last month the survivor had withdrawn her complaint after reaching a compromise with the accused. “After furnishing a written statement withdrawing her complaint, she later changed her mind and lodged a complaint, which led to the delay,” he said. Apart from Thakre, the survivor was also aided by social workers Neeraj Shinde, Roshan Sadwane and Payal Mankar.