Madurai: It’s located virtually at the centre of Madurai city, but Ismailpuram seems to have no such pretensions. In fact the Madurai corporation’s ward number 51, under which the area falls, is like any other neglected   space bereft of basic facilities. Besides poor roads, unclean Panaiyur channel and mounting garbage complete the picture of neglect. 

 With no work carried out for years together, proper road facility has been a distant dream for the residents. In fact, the roads in many small lanes and streets have turned out to be mere sand-filled surfaces. A look at the 8th and 9th streets reveals the extent of damage. Residents say their troubles increase manifold when it rains as the roads become muddy and slippery. While some of the surfaces are yet to see bitumen road, a few which were laid in recent years got damaged when the underground drainage (UGD) facility was established. 
 
 Mohammed Abdulla, a resident of Ismailpuram, said that he had not seen any road work being carried out in the last 10 years, ever since he shifted to the locality. Pointing out the road on 8th street, he said, “We approached the officials several times, but the issue is yet to be sorted out. They say they will lay the roads once they are covered by UGD. We are not sure how long it will take for the facility to come up,” he said. 
 
 Residents of Olaipattinam Second Street, adjoining Ismailpuram, are the worst affected. For them, a motorable road has been a distant dream for several years. “People are hesitant to take houses on rent in the locality due to the poor developmental activity. Many areas remain vacant for long,” said Baragath Nisha, a resident. 
 
 Apart from the road problem, piling up of garbage is another issue faced by the residents. While they blame sanitation employees for not clearing garbage regularly, officials counter it saying it is the residents who prefer to litter outside. A health official said that although they have kept bins adequately, people prefer to dump on the roadside and in Panaiyur channel. 
 
 
