CHENNAI: Three arterial roads in the city may not get   and vehicular subways to help with safe operation of   services, whose trains run beneath or over these major roads. Nearly 30km of  , Poonammalee High Road and Jawaharlal Nehru Road, under metro rail coverage, have the highest vehicular density in the city.

 Highway department sources said that laying the pile foundation for bridges will have an impact on the metro rail tunnels. “The pile foundation must be laid at a depth of 15 to 18 metres under the roads. This would bring the pile foundation in close contact to the tunnel,” an official said. Hence, this shuts the window for any new   on these stretches, sources added. “We can have pedestrian subways, but flyovers or vehicular subways can be possible only in the event of altering the alignment of its design,” the official said emphasising that the new facilities should not disturb the existing metro rail structures. The construction of a bridge at Vadapalani junction coincided with the metro rail constructions.
 
 Chennai metro rail plies through a 16km stretch between Periyar Statue and the airport on Anna Salai, 8km from Katipara to Koyambedu on Jawaharlal Nehru Road and 5km from Central railway station to Pachaiyappa’s College on  , all of which are maintained by the   department. 
 
 While the metro rail moves to the elevated corridor from below at Saidapet on Anna Salai, it takes an elevation at Thirumangalam from under ground. The entire line on Jawaharlal Nehru Road is elevated. 
 
 The city currently has 53.37 lakh vehicles. However, the vehicular density is intensifying with an average of more than 50,000 newly-registered cars for personal use and nearly three lakh two-wheelers added every year to city traffic thereby clogging the arterial roads. 
 
 Former professor of urban engineering at Anna University, K P Subramanian said that it was best not to have flyovers and vehicular subways with metro rail running under the road. “It may have an adverse impact on the tunnels,” he said. 
 
 But, urban designer Advait Jani said, “While there is technology to build elevated corridors over metro corridors, the cost of such constructions is generally very high.”
 
 However, another highways department official said technology would come in handy. He cited the construction of a portion of the Thirumangalam bridge after the tunnel for metro rail was created.
 
 
