Chennai: Its first-look at the Auto Expo in 1998 created such a stampede that onlookers referred to it as ‘Maruti ka baap’. When bookings opened, the rush began with over 100,000 bookings clocked long before delivery schedule.  Now, after two decades of run, it’s end of the road for the Tata Indica. On Wednesday, Tata Motors announced that it would phase out the Indica compact car and its platform mate Indigo eCS.  The auto industry reacted to the news with sadness. Anand Mahindra, CMD, Mahindra & Mahindra tweeted: “I feel a tinge of sadness at the passing of the Indica. It was a ground-breaking project and an inspiration for local innovation.’’ Indeed the Indica was a special car in many ways, both for the Indian market and especially for Tata Motors. “It helped establish Tata Motors in the car business and showed the world that the company had the wherewithal to develop a car,’’ said a former Tata Motors senior executive. “That later came in handy when the bid for JLR was made.’’ Insiders say when the car was being developed no one thought it would create the buzz it did. “The odds were stacked against the car,’’ said the ex-executive. “Not just outsiders but even people within the company were sceptical.’’ Of course there were glitches but they were addressed when the V2 version was launched in 2000. “That’s when the Indica really took off and along with Indigo, which came in 2002, propelled Tata Motors to become one of the top 3 players in the industry,” he added. Such was the impact of the Indica that arch rivals Maruti and Hyundai tweaked their strategies to take on the little car. The year was 1998. The Hyundai Santro was launched in October, the Daewoo Matiz in November and the Indica rolled out in December. Maruti responded by cutting price of its M800. “We had to do that,’’ remembers Jagdish Khattar who was MD of Maruti Suzuki back then. “We didn’t have a new model till the Alto came in 2000 so we had to play around with refreshes like the 2-door Zen or price strategies to face off. Also the Indica was the only small diesel car and we didn’t have a diesel engine till much later,’’ he said. What helped Indica was its design, pricing and the diesel engine. “Indica was a fabulously designed car and coming up head-to-head with a brand like Tata was very difficult. So we decided to take on Maruti rather than Tata Motors. Imagine fighting with a launch that gets 1,15,000 bookings! Of course later the car faced manufacturing and vendor quality issues,’’ said BVR Subbu, who was head of Hyundai’s marketing and sales back then. What dented that initial euphoria were niggling issues which were rectified in the V2 variant. And Indica and later Indigo’s popularity in the tourist taxi segment helped boost sales significantly. Auto experts feel the Indica was due for phase out given that it is 20 years old.  “Typically a car’s lifecycle, with facelifts and refreshes, is around 10 years. From next year on, several safety norms will kick in and BS6 will come in from 2020 so the game was over for Indica anyway,’’ said Khattar. However auto experts wonder if Tata Motors needed to phase out the brand along with the model. “Indica was a strong brand and it could have been kept alive with a new platform model,’’ said the ex-executive. When contacted a Tata Motors spokesperson said: “Launched in 1998, for the past two decades, the Tata Indica – India’s first, fully indigenous passenger car – has been the frontrunner of Tata Motors’ PV line-up. The Indica was followed by the Indigo launch in 2002 and it too was received well in the PV market. With the changing market dynamics and the evolution of Tata Motors design language towards impactful design, we have decided to phase out the Indica and the Indigo eCS, a common phenomenon in a product lifecycle. We will continue to serve our extended family of Indica and Indigo customers by providing them the necessary service support,’’ he added.