NEW DELHI:  , the retired allrounder turned head coach of  , believes that two members of the successful Indian Under-19 team that won the junior World Cup this year can have lengthy international careers. 

 
 
 
 As coach of KKR, Kallis has studied batsman   and pace bowler   from close quarter, and what he has seen has left him very impressed. Gill, 18, was the leading run-getter of the U-19 World Cup with four successive 50-plus scores in the tournament, including a match-winning century in the semi-final versus Pakistan. Ravi, 19, took nine wickets with a superb economy rate of 4.12 while impressing with his pace. 
 
 The pair was subsequently purchased by KKR for Rs 1.8 crore and Rs 3 crore respectively. 
 
 “Shubman Gill and Shivam Mavi have bags of talent and I would be very surprised if they don’t both have lengthy and illustrious professional careers. Obviously Gill has been a top-order batsman in every team he has played in but if his opportunity, for the moment, lies at six or seven then I’m sure he has the talent and temperament to be successful there,” wrote Kallis in his column for TOI. “Mavi has plenty of pace which is very exciting and, although his opportunity was limited against the Sunrisers I see plenty more overs from him in the future.”
 
 Two-time   champions KKR currently sit at fifth on the   points table with one win and two losses in a row. Their second defeat was a narrow one against table-topper  , in which Kallis took solace from the way in which the franchise fought when defending just 138. 
 
 “We have fallen off the early pace with the defeat to Hyderabad and need to get back to winning ways soon. There is rarely much to be pleased with after a disappointing performance like that one but I was really impressed with the effort and determination to defend a sub-par total,” wrote Kallis, who in 70 matches for KKR scored 1603 runs and took 48 wickets. 
 
 “We have put ourselves under pressure at the back end of the tournament before and I’d rather not be in that situation again – so winning needs to start again soon, beginning against Delhi [Daredevils] on Monday. Coaching is not rocket science – we just need to make sure our basics are done a little better. We have some tough travel days and a demanding schedule over the next week but the positive side of that is that, if you get on a winning streak, a hard schedule can actually work in your favour.”
 
 
