 I have a 26-year-old son, and he is dating a girl from his college. I have no problem with him being in a relationship. But from the past few months, he has started calling her home when I am not around, that too without informing me. It gets really embarrassing when my neighbours tell me about this, and I have to confirm it with my son. Despite asking him several times to not do this, he brings her home the moment I step out. How should I tackle this situation?
 

 
  Dealing with adult children can be really tricky in such situations. Parents are not only worried about the social implication of neighbours watching them bring their partners home, but are often also worried about sexual intimacy, especially before marriage. They worry about the consequence of it– pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases or overall distraction when they should focus on building their career. Are one or all of these your likely concerns?
 
 Adult children, on the other hand, seem to be looking for privacy to spend some intimate time with their partner and explore their relationship. When it comes to sexual intimacy, they may not subscribe to the idea of delaying it till marriage. They are less worried of the opinions of the neighbours and its social consequences as well.
 
 I recommend you to sit down and express you true concerns to him. Talk less about the social implications, and more about what are your reasons for asking them to refrain from using the space in your absence. Open conversation, where you respect his idea of a relationship, will not make him reject you or get defensive. Discuss to negotiate common grounds and setting boundaries that are mutually acceptable to both of you.
 
 Exploring intimacy (which may not be socially accepted) is a natural biological urge at their age, and they will find avenues for it no matter the home is available or not. It is best to have an open conversation about the boundaries you would like.
 
 A healthy discussion and respecting each other’s space and boundaries can solve most problems but one needs to have an open mind for it.
 
 
 
 Want expert advice for your relationship? Send us an email at expertadvice.toi@gmail.com
 
