NEW DELHI: A   in a west Delhi   late on Sunday over the choice of songs being played ended in the   stabbing a gym owner to death and smashing a beer bottle on the head of a woman, leaving her injured. The 25-year-old DJ was arrested from the spot.

 It all started three hours into the birthday party that the deceased man,   (34), and eight of his friends were attending in Raftaar, the nightclub in Punjabi Bagh. At 11.45pm, DJ   announced the next song would be the last of the night. Hearing this, Rajinder, one of those partying with Vijaydeep, signalled the DJ to play another track. Getting no response, Rajinder entered the DJ’s console and repeated his request.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 “The DJ snubbed me and asked me to go back to the dance floor. When I refused, he flung the cap off the head and opened my patka, after which a scuffle took place,” Rajinder said. Vijaydeep rushed into the console to intervene, after which the brawl spread on to the dance floor. A few bouncers started fighting Vijaydeep and his group. Though 40 other people, mostly patrons, stood by witnessing a free-for-all, none intervened. DJ Yuri suddenly ran into the kitchen, picked up the knife and stabbed Vijaydeep thrice, leaving him in a pool of blood.
 
 One of the patrons immediately made a PCR call. Within minutes, cops rushed in and found the DJ standing on the dance floor with the knife. He was arrested. Vijaydeep was taken to hospital where he was declared dead. The woman was discharged from a private hospital in Moti Nagar after treatment.
 
 Police have sealed the nightclub and will possibly cancel its licence. A case under various sections of murder was registered against the DJ at the Punjabi Bagh police station, and investigations were on, DCP (west) Vijay Kumar said.
 
 Police said that Vijaydeep owned two gyms — one in Vishnu Garden and another in Fateh Nagar. The statements of Singh’s friends were taken.
 
 Police are studying CCTV footage to ascertain if more people were involved in the murder. The footage shows several men attacking each other, while other patrons stand still till cops arrive. 
 
 
