KOLKATA: A friend introduced Chhoti to   Sharma a few months ago. They first spoke to each other over phone. What started as a conversation on the importance of education for persons with visual impairment soon turned into something more personal and shortly, they found themselves in love.

 Nupur, another friend of Chhoti, met   at a training centre in 2011. They never set their sights on each other, but their passion for writing poetry drew them close together.
 
 Chhoti and Nupur—both residents of a special school for persons with visual impairment—tied the knot with the men of the dream on Sunday evening at Voice of World, their home. The brides are orphans but their   family made every effort to make their special day memorable. Decorated with flowers, the venue looked resplendent, with strains of shehnai adding to the ambiance. Even as the elders at the home blessed the newlyweds, guests were treated to a sumptuous dinner of kochuri, chana, pulau, chicken and dessert.
 
 A graduate and a music lover, Chhoti looked the perfect blushing bride in her red Benarasi and gold ornaments. Rajendra, a schoolteacher in Delhi with visual impairment, looked a typical Bengali groom, complete with a topor. “His thoughts and his way of talking impressed me. His nature attracted me the most and I was sure I wanted to marry only him,” said Chhoti, adding that him being a schoolteacher was an inspiration for her to pursue higher studies. Rajendra looked suitably tense but “loved all the rituals”. First time in Kolkata, he was swept off his feet by the people and their hospitality. “Chhoti’s simplicity made me fall in love with her,” said Rajendra.
 
 Beside the two sat Nupur, a passionate writer and a graduate, and Saikat, an employee in the IT sector. “I wanted   in my life for his unconditional love for me. He is my inspiration,” said Nupur, decked in a Benarasi and jewellery. Saikat, who is partially blind, sat smiling all through, waiting eagerly for the rituals to get over. “I am lucky to have Nupur in my life. Without her support, I could not have done anything. I promise to be by her side throughout,” said Saikat, a keen tabla-player. “I was attracted by Nupur’s creative bent of mind and wanted to spend my life with her.”
 
 As the ceremony neared an end, the brides got teary eyed, joyous but at the same time apprehensive about leaving their near and dear ones behind for an unknown future.
 
 Chhoti’s teacher  , who was at the wedding to bless the couple, said, “I feel immense pleasure to be here. She was a bright student. Her struggle to pursue education is commendable. Seeing her sitting there as a bride gives me profound satisfaction.” “Just like a mother, I am happy and sad at the same time,” said Gargi Gupta, secretary of Voice of World, who has won the Nari Shakti award from the President of India.
 
