CHANDIGARH: Are tanning and manual scavenging ‘unclean occupations’? At least the   government thinks they are, going by a form circulated by the state education department to give scholarships and financial help to students from poor backgrounds. Besides seeking details of parents engaged in ‘unclean profession’, the forms asks for details like caste, religion, Aadhar number and PAN number along with the bank account number of the parents.
 
 Sources in the government said that the department had been using the form for years but it was sent to only government schools. For the past two years, it was being sent to students of private schools as well without anyone ever reading the fine print. The form set off a controversy after some parents in Gurgaon approached NGOs against the details that the government was seeking.
 
 To quell the controversy, the state government issued a statement explaining the term ‘unclean occupation’ for those engaged in manual scavenging, tanning and flaying. It also clarified that the details were being sought for children of those parents who had been engaged in these professions till January 1, 1997, so that they can be given financial assistance.”
 
 
 
 But some principals that TOI spoke to did not even know what ‘unclean occupation’ meant and asked if it stood for parents who were criminals.
 
 Kulbhushan Sharma, president of the   (NISA) said there is no rationale for seeking such details from students of private schools. “The government has not defined unclean occupation. How can we ask such details from our students and why should one provide such details to the government? I hope the government is not seeking such information to set their political agenda for the future,” he said. He demanded immediate withdrawal of the forms.
 
 Taking to social media to criticize the   government, media incharge of   party,   asked government to state “which profession it considers unclean”. Surjewala accused the state government of racial and religious profiling of students in the state.
 
 Defending itself on the issue, the state government, in its official release, stated that the form was intended to ensure that every student in every school of Haryana received the full benefit of every scheme of central as well as state government.
 
 According to the state, such assistance is available under “Regulations governing the centrally sponsored scheme of pre-matric scholarships to children of those engaged in unclean occupations i.e. scavenging, tanning and flaying”. It has also clarified that the term ‘unclean occupation’ is defined in the scheme formulated and applicable since July 1, 2011.
 
 “It was surprising that parents who admittedly pay tax on time and are not being asked to share their PAN number could object to disclose their annual income when practically all scholarship schemes have an income ceiling,” clarified the state on asking PAN numbers.
 
