Darjeeling: A battle zone eight months ago, the Gorkha Ranga Manch Bhawan in Darjeeling turned out to be a reconciliation point for the Binay Tamang-led Gorkha Janmukti Morcha and the state government, with GJM leaders giving a grand welcome to chief minister   on Tuesday.

 GJM leaders and supporters lined up on the way to the Bhawan with khadas (traditional scarves) and, like hosts welcoming a ‘baraat’, local Gorkha artistes played the “naumati baja” (nine traditional Nepali instruments used during weddings), sending out signals that the bad days are over.
 
 Welcome gates were erected at strategic places along the chief minister’s route up to the Hills to forget the memories of June 8, 2017, when GJM supporters had waved black flags at the CM. GJM president and general secretary Binay Tamang and Anit Thapa, respectively, first received Mamata at Rohini, below Kurseong town.
 
 The CM took part at a Gorkhaland Territorial Administration programme and renamed the Rohini road after GNLF supremo Subash Ghising. “We have to give credit to the person who deserves it. Rohini road was constructed by Ghising during his time, which helped us when National Highway 55 was disturbed,” Mamata said, two days ahead of the all-Hills parties meeting on Thursday.
 
 The chief minister’s outreach to the two primary Hill constituents, the Tamang-led GJM faction and GNLF, is also being read as an attempt to isolate Bimal Gurung and his potical ally, the BJP, ahead of the 2019   elections .
 
 Tamang reciprocated by pledging that GTA will work with the state government for the development of the Hills. GNLF president Mann Ghising was present at the programme. Later, the CM said: “The state government will give all that the Hills people want from the government. The government in turn expects the Hills people to ensure peace in the area.”
 
 Up in the Hills, the GJM crowd was seen waiting for the CM at two points — the Darjeeling railway station and Bhanu Bhawan — while Trinamool supporters shouted “Didi jindabad, Didi swagat hai” slogans at the railway station. Mamata got down from her car around 4 pm and exchanged courtesy with the GJM leaders.
 
 The chief minister will give away prizes to the winner of the Himal Tera Dooars   Festival 2017-18 organized by the district police on Wednesday and also hand out appointment letters to special civic volunteers. A GJM delegation is scheduled to sit for a meeting with the CM in the evening. On February 8, the CM is expected to convene an all-party meeting in Richmond Hill in Darjeeling followed by a meeting with GTA officials to take stock of development work and different schemes.
 
 However, the joyous mood near Raj Bhawan looked a little put out when compared with the mood in other parts of Darjeeling town. The spontaneity was missing on the faces of youths who walked the roads without paying heed to what was happening at the Bhawan.
 
 
 
