THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   state beverages corporation ( ) has invited tenders from suppliers of foreign- made foreign liquor ( ) and foreign made wine ( ) to be sold through its outlets in the wake of the new liquor policy of the state government.

 But the much anticipated FMFL trade, proposed as early as 2007 by the excise department, is likely to be delayed for at least one more month. Even though the tenders have been invited from original manufacturers of FMFL who own their distilleries abroad or have their authorised dealers in the country having a customs-bonded warehouse, the Bevco has extended the late date for submission of offers from the originally scheduled March 26 to April 10.
 
 Also, the government is yet to bring the changes in the Abkari Act permitting the sale of FMFL in the state. Only after the relevant changes in the Abkari Act is made, which will be done through the finance bill, the excise department can make changes in the two major rules that stipulates several criteria for facilitating the sale of FMFL. “Changes in the foreign liquor rules and the foreign liquor (registration of brands) rules will have to be made subsequently,” sources said.
 
 The changes in these two rules decide the strength of alcohol content in the FMFL, the permission for registration of brands, the size of the liquor pack, the minimum and maximum quantity that can be allowed per bottle and other similar factors. The Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) sold in the country has a maximum 42.86% alcohol content in it, while several of the foreign brands have more alcohol content. Also, the per bottle quantity at present in the state is 180ml to 1.5 litres while for foreign brands, some of them are available in 60ml and 90ml bottles, as well as in 2 litre bottles.
 
 Interestingly, the government, which has decided to open up FMFL and FMW in the market, has not given permission to sell foreign-made beer in the state.
 
 Till now, there are only two ways to bring FMFL to the state legally. While the foreign liquor rules 13 (3) and 13
 
 (11) allow bar hotels having liquor and beer and wine licences to procure FMFL from customs bond (a customs controlled area where the FMFL is available) after paying the customs duty, a bonafide traveller could bring from abroad a maximum of 4.5 litres of FMFL after paying the customs duty. Apart from procuring bar licences, FL-3 and FL-11 licence holders have to pay an additional Rs 30,000 to sell the FMFL.
 
