Madurai: Tension prevailed in Goripalayam and Tallakulam areas on Monday morning, after farmers from double   area – Peranai to Kallanthiri – in the district, picketed the public works department (PWD) office at Tallakulam demanding release of water. They also resorted to a road roko after failing to get any convincing replies from the officials. Having cultivated their paddy fields with water from reservoirs, the farmers are demanding that they desperately need water to save their withering crops, which are almost ready for harvest.

 After a prolonged delay, the water for irrigation of double crop areas extending to an area of 45,000 acres, was released on November 1. Though delayed for the season, farmers still cultivated their lands and were assured of the water till February end. However, the turn system of irrigation was adopted mid-December by releasing water every five days. Lately, the water supply was stopped altogether and the paddy crop which is almost ready requires that last leg of irrigation, farmers charged. 
 
 “Public works department goofed up the entire irrigation system by releasing water to PTR and Thanthai Periyar channels in Theni yielding to political pressure. In turn, Melur farmers staged a protest and water was released to every channel. We don’t object to all those decisions, but we want the share of water we deserve as per irrigation norms,” a farming community leader, R   said.
 
 Executive engineer of PWD for Periyar –   basin, Subramanian said the present storage level is low to meet both drinking water and irrigation needs. “We understand their frustration but releasing water for irrigation will damage prospects of providing drinking water to Madurai city and Theni district,” he said. However, Arulpragasam alleged that PWD is releasing water to PTR and Thanthai Periyar channels in a clandestine manner. “Why should PWD release 100 cusecs to Theni alone when Madurai city gets just 60 cusecs?” he asked. 
 
 The farmers decided to resort to a road roko, after officials said that their demand will be considered in a couple of days depending on rainfall in catchment areas. Irked by this, they picketed the busy roads at  , and raised slogans demanding water. Police used force to remove protesting farmers from the spot and 155 of them were taken into custody. They were later released in the evening. 
 
 
