Rajkot: Three bootleggers were arrested In the sensational murder of Devang Gadhvi, whose body was found dumped in a 60-foot borewell of 12-inch diameter on the outskirts of Mota Bhadiya village of Mandvi taluka in Kutch district on February 19. 
 
 Mandvi police officials arrested Khimraj Gadhvi, Rambhai Gadhvi and Naran Gadhvi for the crime. 
  
 Khimraj, a resident of Mota Kandagara village of Mundra taluka, and Ramabhai, a resident of Mota Bhadiya village of Mandvi taluka, had chopped Devang’s body into pieces and threw them into the borewell pipe. Third accused Naran, who too is a resident of Mota Bhadiya village, had helped them in the crime. 
  
 “Both Khimraj and Ramabhai were in judicial custody of Mandvi sub-jail for bootlegging cases. They were formally arrested after confessing to having killed Devang. After they named Naran as co-accused, we arrested him too,” said Mandvi police station inspector M R Gamit. 
  
 “After arresting the accused, we made them reconstruct the crime scene,” added Gamit. 
  
 On February 24, police managed to dig out the chopped pieces of Devang from the borewell. “Chopped pieces of the slain youth were found stuck in the borewell's pipe. There were six pieces — head, torso, two hands and two feet. We also found the jacket and pant-shirt worn by the deceased and his footwear,” said an official from Mandvi police station. 
  
 Devang (20), a resident of Mota Bhadiya village, had been missing since February 12. 
  
 According to police, Devang, who had been involved in bootlegging, had left his house on February 12 and did not return. His family members lodged a missing person’s complaint with Mandvi police station on February 13, following which a search operation was launched. 
  
 During investigation, police checked the mobile phone call records of Devang and found that he was in constant touch with listed bootleggers Rambhai and Khimraj before going missing. 
  
 When police detained Khimraj and interrogated him, he confessed to murdering Devang along with Rambhai on February 13. Khimraj told police that the deceased had borrowed Rs 50,000 from Rambhai few months ago and had not returned it. On February 12, the two accused called Devang outside the village on the pretext of giving him some work and allegedly killed him. 
  
  
