NAGPUR: Ever since   took over the mantle of   (MBA) president on October 17, 2015 in Mumbai, he has made rapid strides in his maiden assignment.

 
 Although he was new to the badminton administration, Lakhani did a remarkable job to put the state association firmly on the national map. The city hosted the Senior Nationals successfully last November.
 
 The MBA chief was inducted into the national executive body as a vice-president during the annual general meeting (AGM) and elections of BAI held at Goa on Tuesday.
 
 TOI was the first to report in its March 22 edition about Lakhani’s elevation as a likely BAI vice-president when he filed his nomination at New Delhi.
 
 All those who had filed nominations on March 22 in the Capital have been elected unopposed including president   for the next four years.
 
 While Lakhani will begin his new innings in BAI,   will get his third successive term at the same post. For the first time in BAI’s history, two Maharashtra officials have been elected as vice-presidents. Lakhani, who was inducted into the ten-member BAI core committee in June last year, was happy to get elevation as one of the 12 vice presidents in the new body.
 
 “I am certainly honoured with my new designation in the BAI. I am also happy that two from Maharashtra got VP berths. Pradeep Gandhe’s vast administrative knowledge will be utilized in decision making. The new executive panel under Himanta Biswa Sarma is aiming to make India super power in the world badminton,” Lakhani told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Lakhani is a part of the four-member committee, which was formed after the BAI elections to deal with the players’ various issues.
 
 “It was decided that only chief national coach  , BAI chief, Pradeep Gandhe and myself will handle the players’ issues. All the top ranked Indian shuttlers have been asked to contact only four of us regarding any problem they have. Talking to various BAI officials had unnecessarily created problems in the past and Sarma doesn’t want to continue that,” said Lakhani.
 
 He said BAI is in contact with the big corporates to have a long-term sponsorship deal to boost the financial status of the association.
 
 “We want to give the best of the facilities to the players. Our players are already doing exceedingly well at the international level. Now, we want to support them even better. They will be taken care of well in terms of facilities and money.
 
 “We want to set up regional academies in every zone. Only Guwahati has been finalized so far as the East Zone centre. I am hoping to get Mankapur-based Divisional Sports Complex for West Zone regional academy soon from the government,” said Lakhani, with a optimism.
 
 Lakhani said in his new capacity, he will try to give more chances to Maharashtra players and coaches wherever they deserve. He also informed that Nagpur’s bid to host the Sub-Junior (U-15 and U-17) All India Ranking tournament has been approved by the new committee.
 
 Former MBA chief and now senior vice-president Pradeep Gandhe said he will cooperate in totality to the new BAI president Himanta Biswa Sarma. 
 
 “Having played for India in the eighties, I know the game quite well. I always share my knowledge with everyone. In Himanta Biswa Sarma we have a new leader who is willing to take the game to newer heights. I will add my inputs in decision making for the betterment of the game. In the next executive committee meeting, the new president will form various sub-committees for the smooth conduct of the BAI funcitioning,” said Gandhe, who along with Leroy D’Sa had won the men’s doubles bronze medal during the Delhi Asian Games in 1982. 
 
