NAGPUR: 23 CBSE schools from Nagpur have decided to boycott the RTE ( ) admission process for 2018-19 academic session because of non-payment of dues by the   government. These 23 schools came under the banner of a newly formed organization called Nagpur CBSE Private School Management Association and have written to the Deputy Director of Education making it clear that they won't be registering their schools online for RTE. So far, the education department has not reacted as the deadline for RTE registration ends on Saturday midnight. 

 
 The letter signed by association chairperson, Neeru Kapai, has made it clear that unless and until all RTE dues are cleared, their member schools won't be admitting any students. Kapai is co-founder of Modern School which has two branches with almost 5,000 students. 
 
  
  
 
 Another organization which has both CBSE and state board schools as its members, will be taking a final call on RTE admission boycott on Saturday. Independent English Schools Association (IESA) executive body will be meeting in Nagpur where its member-schools from eastern Maharashtra will decide on boycotting RTE registrations.  , vice-president of IESA, said, "Already in Jalna district we have boycotted the process and hope that schools in Nagpur too take a similar call. IESA has also approached the Aurangabad bench of   over non-payment of RTE dues by state government." 
 
 As per the RTE Act, private unaided (non-minority) schools reserve 25% of their seats for free admissions to students selected by respective state governments under RTE norms. In lieu of these free admissions, schools receive a fixed amount per year, per child. For academic session 2017-18 this fee was approximately Rs.17,000 per child. However, payments by the government have been sporadic with many getting part payments hardly 30% of their total dues.
 
 Since RTE lottery and student selection process is online, schools have to register on the education department portal giving details of the seat availability. This registration had to be completed by midnight of January 20 in Nagpur. With the 23 schools already deciding to pull out, and chances of dozen or more members of IESA doing the same, it remains to be seen how the education department will handle the crisis. 
 
