TIRUVANNAMALAI:   arrested seven people at Sumangali in   district of   for the   of a youth and for inflicting serious injuries on two of his friends. Police were on the lookout for a few others in connection with the case.

 The murder happened around 12.30am on Sunday when the victim, S Sadasivam, 19, of Thenthandarai village, and two of his friends -- Madhavan and Yuvaraj -- of the same village were riding triples on a motorcycle to pick up one of their friends. The villagers mistook the trio for thieves and rained stones at them.
 
 Sadasivam, who was riding on the motorcycle, sustained serious injuries and collapsed. Though two of his friends managed to take him to a primary health central at Perunkattur, the doctors declared him brought dead. “The incident occurred when Yuvaraj went to pick up his friend Anandan, who went for catering work at Venpakkam. Since he did not get a bus to return home, he telephoned Yuvaraj to pick him up,” said inspector of   station S Sudhakar
 
 Inquiries revealed that the youngsters of Sumangali village were doing night patrol at the entry and exit points of the village following rumours of thieves and child lifters on the prowl. In the meantime, the personnel attached to Mornam police station were engaged in vehicle check near the village.
 
 The trio, on seeing police, took the village route to avoid the cops. They entered the village and went through the narrow lanes. When a group of villagers tried to stop them, the trio dodged them and exited from the village. Mistaking them for thieves, the villagers screamed and alerted another group of villagers standing a few metres away. They, in turn, rained stones at the trio in a bid to stop them.
 
 “Stones hit Sadasivam’s forehead and chest, and he collapsed. He died on the way to the hospital. The villagers, in the meantime, tailed his friends who was taking Sadasivam’s to hospital. They assaulted Yuvaraj and Madhavan and injured them badly,” said the inspector.
 
 After the duo explained, the villagers realised the gravity of the incident. “It was a case of misunderstanding and mob reaction,” said the inspector.
 
 Upon information, police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. The youth’s body was shifted to the Government Hospital in Kancheepuram for postmortem. 
 
 The victim’s family members and neighbours resorted to a road blockade demanding stern action and invoke SC/ST Atrocity Act against the people responsible for Sadasivam’s death.
 
 Vellore superintendent of police of P Pakalavan, who is in-charge of Tiruvannamalai, and Cheyyar DSP Gunasekaran pacified the protesters. 
 
 The police registered a case under sections 147, 148, 323, 324, 302, 506 (2) of IPC read with Section 3 (ii) (v) SC/ST (prevention of atrocities) Act (since the victim was a  ). 
 
 The arrested seven villagers were remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
