Jaipur: Death of a   due to tranquillisation has been brought to fore the immediate need of a designated veterinary doctor and a tranquillising expert at the Ranthambore Tiger Reserve which boasts to have highest number of tiger population in the state. 

 Over the years, a forest guard is tranquillising the tigers under the supervision of a veterinarian doctor appointed by animal husbandry department.
 
 The wildlife experts and senior forest officials believe that the doctor and guard has an expertise and tranquillised many tigers in the past. However, sources in the department said, fears of Tiger T-28 becoming conscious during rescue operation might have possibly forced the government veterinary doctor from Sawai Madhopur to give an extra doze of the medicine.
 
 He recalled, “Once T-24 aka Ustad was operated to remove maggots. The tiger got conscious in middle of the operation. Since then, the doctor is using high doze of concentrated of medicine to make tiger unconscious for long,” he said.
 
 Supporting the allegation, Simrat Sandhu, a wildlife enthusiast, said, “The tiger had entered the village to drink water after he ate an animal. The dart to tranquillise the tiger was shot twice by the forest guard. It was a murder of the tiger as overdoze of medicine was given,” he added. 
 
 As per the post-mortem report, Star was suffering from gastric torsion in cardia (upper region). His problem aggravated when he ran and entered a village agriculture field where he ultimately died after being tranquillised.
 
 Deputy conservator of forests Bijo Joy said, “The tranquillisation was done by the expert team who have been practising this over the years,” he said.
 
 According to forest department, concentration of Xylazine and Ketamine medicines were used to tranquilise the tiger. Many wildlife lovers demanded that the viscera report be sent to Bareli so that actual cause of the death can be known.
 
 “The body was cremated by the forest official immediately after the death. This has raised many suspicions. Soon, a committee will be constituted to probe the report,” he added.
 
 T-28 had been a dominant male tiger for a long time and raised two generations of tigers in RNP through tigresses T-17 and T-19, which are daughters of the legendary tigress late “Machhli”. The “Star” fathered nine cubs– six from T-19 (T-63, 64, 65, 83, 84 and 85) and three from T-17 (T-73, 74, and 75). 
 
 
