KOLKATA: Jadavpur   Vice-Chancellor Suranjan   has sought leave for a month from chancellor and governor   which has been approved. The VC’s sudden decision to go on a long leave has triggered speculations over his desire to leave the post following several student unrest in JU during his tenure. Das, who has time and again supported students and is perceived as one of the most liberal VC believing to propagate democratic atmosphere in the university campus by holding continuous dialogue with students said that his health has deteriorated after the last gherao which lasted more than 30 hours.

 “I had asked for a month long leave from chancellor which has been approved and I have thus taken leave since February 1. Apart from a failing health, I also have to complete few personal and professional commitments. Once my vacation is over then I shall take a call on a date to join,” said Das. His statement further raised questions over his desire to quit the job feeling dejected over the continuous student demonstration in JU when he was forcefully confined along with several other senior JU officials over various demands. Earlier, on several occasion, Das had said that if he feels the need, then he will not hesitate to step down.
 
 It was only in mid-January when students demanded that Das should revoke government order to rename the students union as student council and also announce an immediate date for the elections. After failing to get a nod from the VC, students staged a dharna, confining Das in  , the main administrative building overnight. Only when the executive council decided to take the demands forward by forming a committee to negotiate the matter and thereafter placing the recommendations to the government was the gherao withdrawn and agitation stopped.
 
 In the last six months Suranjan Das faced as many as four sit-in-demonstration over the same issue of student vote, raising questions over the manner of protests staged by the students of JU which has come under criticism time and again.
 
 There are however several decision pending before JU including education minister Partha Chatterjee’s proposal to initiate a uniform admission system for the undergraduate courses in the university.
 
 When asked about his next plan after the vacation ends, Das added, “my physician had asked me to take complete rest for a month. Only then shall I decide the net course of action.” The VC had fallen sick twice during the demonstration when he was prescribed medicine that had to be administered as gherao continued.
 
