CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high   has observed that it cannot be ruled out that  , former driver of   (DSS) head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, could not speak out against him in the court because of the political clout, increased influence and financial strength of the dera chief.

 HC was also of the view that there couldn’t be a doubt as the dera chief’s conviction in rape cases had come as relief for Khatta, who wanted to depose against him in the murder cases.
 
 These observations were made by Justice Augustine George Masih of the HC while allowing Khatta to record his statement afresh before the special   court in Panchkula in relation to murder cases of Sirsa-based journalist Ram Chander Chhatarpati and former dera manager Ranjit Singh.
 
 In his detailed 22-page judgment, Justice Masih was also of the view that Khatta gave his statement under sections 161 and 164 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) in 2007 whereas his evidence in court was recorded in February 2012 when the dera chief prospered into high profile.
 
 “With this political clout, following increased influence and financial strength, sense of insecurity amongst the people like the petitioner (Khatta) cannot be ruled out and, in these circumstances, it cannot be said that he would not have been influenced with the changed circumstances especially when the dera chief had devoted followers who would kill or die on his command, which is reflected, as per the assertions of the petitioner, on the killing of Ranjit Singh and Ram Chander Chhatarpati of which he is a witness,” observed the HC.
 
 Referring to the decision of CBI court rejecting Khatta’s plea for recording his statement again, HC observed that the trial court appears to have been over influenced by the facts that the trial is old and by allowing the present application, it would further delay the trial.
 
 “There can be no doubt that the expeditious trial is the right of each person who is aggrieved or is an accused and who is interested in the case but merely because of the delay, justice should not be made the casualty. The primary aim and object of the Court is to do justice which is to punish the guilty and to protect the innocent, which ultimately depends upon the evidence,” observed the HC while allowing Khatta to depose afresh in the murder cases. The trial should be a search for the truth and not a bout over technicalities, order added.
 
 Khatta had approached the HC against the orders of special CBI court Panchkula that had dismissed his plea to depose against DSS chief in the ongoing murder cases.
 
 According to Khatta, he had personal knowledge about the commission of crime and the circumstances which led to the murder of Ranjit and Chhatarpati. Earlier, he had turned hostile but after DSS chief's conviction in rape cases in August 2017, he had approached to record his statement afresh.
 
 
