Kolkata: Kolkata has contributed two to the figure of 20 from across the country who have secured the top percentile in the 217-2018 Common Admission Test for entry into the Indian Institutes of Management.

 Vishal Vohra wants to pursue a career in finance from IIM-Calcutta, which he calls “the country’s best financial campus”, or from IIM-Ahmedabad. But Abhidipto Chakraborty wants to wait for a few more years before taking the MBA plunge; he wants to do it from a foreign B-school and is using   as a “learning experience for tougher tests in future”.
 
 The IIMs have been spending a lot of thought on diversifying their campus but Monday’s CAT results yet again show that they still face an uphill task. 
 
 Seventeen of the top 20 are engineering graduates; the remainder are BCom grads. And only two girls have found a place in this elite group. This year’s group, however, is more diverse than the top-percentilers of the past two years, when there was no girl or a non-engineering grad.
 
 “This was my third attempt,” Vohra said. “My scores were 98.7 percentile and 99.8 percentile the last two years and I was hopeful that I could secure above the 99.9 percentile this time. I concentrated more on mock examinations to hone my skills,” he added.
 
 Vishal Vohra’s 2016 CAT score ensured him a seat in IIFT-Delhi. “But it was an offer that I did not wish to take as my aim was to pursue a career in finance from either the A-B-C IIMs or XLRI or FMS,” the Frank Anthony Public School alumnus said. Vohra has a degree in civil engineering from Jadavpur University.
 
 The other CAT topper from Kolkata, Chakraborty, wants to take up consultancy. He appeared for CAT this year to test his skills and treated this a mock examination, he said, adding that he was aiming for a B-school in a foreign university for his MBA. The Assembly of God Church alumnus had appeared for CAT last year, too, and bagged a seat in one of the coveted IIMs.
 
 “The Verbal Ability and Comprehension section of this year’s CAT was as difficult or simple as last year’s. Logical Reasoning and Data Interpretation was tougher this time year but the third section, Quantitative Ability, was slightly easier than in 2016. Overall the difficulty level of CAT was a bit higher than last year,” Career Launcher city director Naveen Saraff said. “But what we are happy about is two girls and three non-engineers finding themselves among the toppers,” he added.
 
 CAT was conducted in two shifts on November 26, 2017, and nearly 2 lakh candidates appeared for the exam that was conducted at centres spread across 140 cities. The number of test takers this year was highest in last there years.
 
 
