Ghazabad: The   Development Authority has given a no-objection certificate to the National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC) to develop six stations under the Regional Rapid Transport System (RRTS) in the city. For the seventh station at   tri-section, the Authority has asked   to seek a clearance from Delhi Metro Rail Corporation.

 A GDA official said the clearance from DMRC was required because it was already developing a metro station at Meerut tri-section on the Dilshad Garden-New Bus Stand route.
 
 
  
 
 “We have given an NOC to NCRTC for developing RRTS stations at six spots — near Sahibabad Industrial area, Guldhar, Duhai, Muradnagar, Modinagar North and Modinagar South,” said Ishtiaq Ahmed, GDA’s chief architect and town planner. “As for the Meerut tri-section station, NCRTC will have to talk to DMRC as the latter is already developing a metro station at the same spot. It is between them to arrive at a consensus,” he added.
 
 According to the initial plan, the metro station at Meerut tri-section is supposed to be integrated with the RRTS station and serve as a major transit point.
 
 The 90km Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut   Transit Corridor project was conceived with a view to connect important towns in NCR with Delhi through a high-speed commuter transit system. Along the corridor, 17 stations have been proposed, which include two in Delhi, seven in Ghaziabad and the remaining in Meerut.
 
 According to the detailed project report, the project has been pegged at around Rs 32,500 crore, of which the UP government will have to give its share of about Rs 4,500 crore over 10 years. The project is expected to be completed by 2024.
 
 The first phase of the RRTS comprises three prioritised corridors — Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut (92.6km); Delhi-Gurgaon-Rewari-Alwar (180km); and Delhi-Sonipat-Panipat (111km). The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut corridor will be the first one to be executed and pre-construction work has already been initiated. The high-speed rail system is likely to cover the distance between Meerut and New Delhi in less than 60 minutes.
 
 
