CHENNAI:  's career graph has seen a steady rise in the last few years. The 18-year-old, who made his ODI and T20 debut for India against Sri Lanka in December last year, bagged the Young Achiever Award given by the Rotary Club of Madras Chenna Patna during their 25th anniversary here on Thursday evening. Washington became emotional while delivering his acceptance speech. 

 
 "People around me have been great and always wanted me to do well. I have a lot of people to thank as they have supported me in each phase of my life," said an emotional Washington, before adding, "Mohammed Asif Ali sir has been very generous in offering the Amir Mahal grounds for practice during my formative years. He has gone out of the way to ensure I received top-notch practice facilities at the ground. The inputs and constant support provided by Venkatramana sir have helped me become a better cricketer."
 
 Former India off-spinner Venkatramana believes Washington's real test will be to stay grounded in the coming years. "Washington's biggest strength lies in his self-belief. He is never overawed by the batsman's credentials and backs his abilities. It is this quality that has helped him go places. All he has to do now is to continue working hard and stay grounded," he said.
 
 Washington has hardly spent time with his parents and elder sister in the last few years. "I have not spent a lot of time with my family but they have been amazing especially my elder sister Shailaja. It is difficult to describe in words the encouragement they have given me," said Washington, who was bought for Rs 3.2 Crore by   at the recently-held   auctions.
 
 Sundar, Washington's father, revealed how his son began concentrating more on his bowling in the past few seasons. "Former   cricketer D Vasu had the firm belief that Washington had a bright future as a bowler. Vasu predicted that Washington will go on to become the No. 1 spinner for Tamil Nadu in the coming years. From that point of time, I began working a little extra on Washington's bowling and the results are there for all to see. While he always stood out as a batsman, Vasu's inputs helped Washington improve his bowling as well," Sundar said.
 
