HYDERABAD : Though various government agencies in Greater Hyderabad require over Rs 10,000 crore for various works, the state government has made meagre allocations in the budget for 2018-19.

 As a result, civic bodies and departments such as   (GHMC),   ( ) and Hyderabad   Limited (HMRL) will have to borrow funds from external agencies, arrange through internal resources or take up projects under Private Public Partnership (PPP).
 
  
 For city agencies, the state government has allocated about Rs 2,200 crore which have been allocated for the Hyderabad Road Development Corporation, Musi Riverfront Development and Metro Rail Phase II works.
 
 The municipal administration department has made a beginning for initiating the Metro Rail Phase II project. An amount of Rs 400 crore has been provided for this. For the   (MMTS) Phase II, the budget has earmarked Rs 500 crore of Rs 530 crore which is the state government’s share.
 
 Though the GHMC has been carrying out SRDP work at a cost of ₹2,700 crore, the state government has not allocated funds for the same. GHMC officials said no funds were given since the government had permitted mobilising about ₹2,500 crore through bonds and loans.
 
 Similarly, the GHMC has not been allotted any funds for 2BHK scheme. This, despite it requesting the state to foot the entire expenditure barring Rs 1.5 lakh per unit that the Centre would contribute. “We are still hopeful the state government will release some funds,” GHMC commissioner B Janardhan Reddy told TOI.
 
 HMDA too is disappointed. It requires nearly Rs 1,000 crore for projects. But only Rs 485 crore were given, including Rs 250 crore towards developmental works and Rs235 crore for ORR works. “HMDA has started construction of Balanagar flyover works which needs Rs 285 crore. The state has asked HMDA to meet the amount from the Layout Regularisation Scheme penal amount,” a senior HMDA official said. The state has also told HMDA to execute projects like logistic parks and integrated bus terminal works under PPP mode. Rs 377 crore has been earmarked for the Musi Riverfront Development Corporation.
 
 Of Rs 7,200 crore for municipal administration and urban development department, the city agencies accounted for ₹2,200 crore minus funds for the water board.
 
 
