JAIPUR: Facing the shame of reporting highest number of   and   cases early this year in the country, the state government has come out with strict provisions for doctors and people to prevent these diseases. The health department issued a notification on Monday declaring dengue, malaria and swine flu as notified diseases. The notification has come into force with immediate effect.

 
 Now, the health department officials will recover the cost along with service charges from the owners for cleaning places where mosquitoes are breeding.
 
 During a door-to-door survey conducted by the department in Jaipur in February, more than 50,000 houses were found having ‘breeding grounds’ for mosquitoes. Now, the owners of these houses will be liable for penalty. According to the   (IDSP), Rajasthan had reported the highest number of swine flu cases this year. The   report mentioned that 1,711cases of swine flu were reported from across the country till May 20.
 
 
 
 
 Out of these, 1,360 were reported from Rajasthan. Out of 189 deaths reported in the country till May 20, 132 occurred in the state.
 
 Now, the doctors in government health institutions and registered medical private practitioners are required to immediately inform chief medical health officer (CMHO) of the district if a suspected case of malaria, swine flu or dengue is reported at their institution, said Veenu Gupta, additional chief secretary, health.
 
 Also, all private hospitals, clinics and laboratories will have to compulsorily inform the CMHO with details of such patients.
 
 Mosquitoes mostly breed in stagnant water. People will have to ensure that conditions in their houses and surroundings are not conducive for mosquito-breeding.
 
 Additional director (rural health) Dr   said, “Declaring dengue, malaria and swine flu as notified diseases will definitely help in curbing them. People will be more careful about these diseases.”
 
 According to the notification, the natural presence of mosquito larvae, pupae in stagnant or flowing water shall be an evidence that mosquitoes are breeding in premises, institutions, offices or dwelling units.
 
 “At first instance, the inspection officer will warn the owner or the occupier of the place by a written notice asking him/her to clean the spot by physical, chemical, biological or other methods,” say the guidelines adding that if the person, to whom the notice was served, fails or refuses to take specified measures, then the inspection officer may himself take such measures and recover the cost along with service charges for doing so, from the owner or occupier of the property, as the case may be.
 
 Flouting provisions of the notification will be an offence. The notification further says, “Whosoever contravenes any of the provisions of these regulations, disobeys any order, obstructs measures to prevent the spread of malaria, swine flu, dengue and other vector-borne diseases shall be deemed to have committed an offence under section 188 of the  , and could be punished with a fine of Rs 500 for each offence.”
 
 
