Indore: The state government will soon outsource agencies to dispose of pending applications related to land demarcation work. Source said that 997 undisputed applications of demarcation of land have been disposed of while 208 are still pending in Indore district. As per the instructions, demarcation work can be done only through scientifically proven Total Station Machine (TSM). “The work will be outsourced and will be monitored by revenue officials,” chief secretary BP Singh said. Singh, who was accompanied by principal secretary (Revenue) Hariranjan Rao and other senior administrative officials, said that MP Land Revenue Code and other related rules will witness required amendments to strengthen the department. During a review meeting of revenue related cases of Indore division, senior officials said that around 9235 posts of patwari, vacant across the state, would soon be filled and the process is in the last stage. Besides, state government is also contemplating to upgrade mobile application ‘Girdawari’ (surveyorship), which is being used by Patwaris. They are planning to give its access to farmers as it will enable them to feed required details including Raqba (area) and crops of farmland. Verification from officials concerned will be required for the same, said the official. Speaking about problems being faced in implementation of ‘WebGIS portal’ here while rest of the districts are still working on old system of National Informatics Centre (NIC), Singh said, “Land records department is working on improving the system. The same is being used in Indore on trial basis and based on its success, it will be implemented across the state.” Singh also talked about implementing section 60 of MPLRC-1959 as new source of revenue collection by levying tax on commercial activities being done in residential areas. The chief secretary said, “Indore collector has given a presentation on their plan of implementing section-60 and formula of tax calculation. We are waiting for the results to implement the same across the state.”