PANAJI: The Indian Navy’s search for critical mine counter measure vessels, also known as minesweepers, continues with the ministry of   cancelling the Rs 32,000-crore project to indigenously manufacture 12 minesweepers at   Limited, ministry of defence sources said. 

 Senior   sources said that the ministry of defence had decided to start the tender process once again.
 
 The move comes even as the Indian Navy is left with just four ageing minesweepers to protect 14 of India’s ports, said an naval officer based at Mumbai’s western command headquarters.
 
 
  
 
 “Goa Shipyard has been asked to issue a new global expression of interest (EoI) for the MCMVs. The fresh RFP (request for proposal) or tender will follow thereafter,” said a source.
 
  “Final negotiations with Kangnam were stuck for long because it wanted deviations from the original RFP. There were also some ToT (transfer of technology), build strategy and cost problems,” said a source.
 
 The decision, which sources say was taken by union minister for defence   Sitharaman, is a strong blow to the “Make in India” plan while also bringing to naught the progress made by Goa Shipyard Limited and South Korean firm Kangnam Corp on the project.
 
 The Goa Shipyard, incidentally, has already invested over Rs 700 crore in building infrastructure for construction of the MCMVs, which will take almost a decade now.
 
 Sitharaman’s predecessor and present Goa chief minister Manohar   had picked Goa Shipyard to indigenously build the 12 minesweepers with technology transfer from the South Korean firm. Sources now reveal that the union ministry of defence has cancelled the Rs 32,000 crore project to construct 12 advanced minesweepers in collaboration with South Korea at the Goa Shipyard.
 
 The ministry of defence will issue a fresh EoI to Kangnam, Intermarine (Italy) and other foreign shipyards that specialize in building MCMVs, with non-magnetic hulls and high-definition sonars, acoustic and magnetic sweeps to detect marooned and drifting mines.
 
 The vessels then use remote-controlled systems like small underwater vehicles to detonate the mines at safe distances.
 
 The UPA government had tried to purchase minesweepers way back in 2005-06 and had picked Kanganam Corporation in 2008 after the company was found to be the lowest bidder. However, the tender process was cancelled after the South Korean firm was accused of wrongdoing.
 
 Advanced minesweepers or mine counter-measure vessels (MCMVs) are specialized warships that detect, track and destroy underwater mines laid by enemy forces to choke Indian harbours and offshore installations, disrupt shipping and maritime trade. The four minesweepers that the Navy operates in its fleet have been in service for three decades and according to a senior naval official, “they could be decommissioned anytime now.”
 
 The Navy needs 24 MCMVs to guard the east and west coastline of India.
 
  This “big operational capability gap” is all the more alarming because Chinese nuclear and conventional submarines, which can quietly lay mines, are regularly making forays to the   now.
 
 
