Nagpur: A 42-member fact-finding team, comprising activists of three different organizations and Communist Party of India (CPI), which released it’s report in a press conference at Gadchiroli on Monday, questioned the claim of the security forces of eliminating at least 40 Maoist guerrillas in two encounters in the district on April 22 and 23. The team sounded disappointed for not being able to speak to villagers of Gattepalli in free spirit where they were allegedly mobbed by security forces.  The findings, titled ‘Massacre Masked as Encounters: The New State Policy for Development in Gadchiroli’, has been compiled on the basis of three-day visit to the sites of encounters in the forests of Boriya-Kasnasur and Nainer between May 4 and 7. The report seems heavily tilted against the C-60 commandos who were engaged in the operations.  The members of the fact-finding teams, belonging to outfits like Co-ordination of Democratic Rights Organization (CDRO), Indian Association of People’s Lawyers (IAPL) and Women Against State Repression and Sexual Violence (WSS) apart from CPI, has dubbed the encounters as ‘fake’ and ‘cold-blooded mass murders’.  The fact-finding team’s report, in possession of TOI, questioned how there was no casualty or even an injury on one side (security forces) while there were 40 deaths in the other camp. The team noted that the C-60 commandos involved in both the encounters were inaccessible for their version on the operations. Apart from the propriety of the use of Under Barrel Grenade Launchers (UBGL) in Boriya-Kasnasur encounter, the team also raised several questions on the death of Aheri Dalam commander and Divisional Committee Member Nandu and five others near Nainer. The team claimed that Nandu and his dalam comrades were rounded up from Boriya-Kasnasur before being shot dead at Nainer after torture.  DIG Ankush Shinde of Naxal range discarded the report of the fact-finding team as a pre-meditated exercise in which the security forces were made a villain. “How is it possible to complete the visits and other fact-finding procedures and compile the report even before their three-day programme was over? The version released in English was already going around in the social media groups having the same issues in local language,” he said.  Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh said the team has been asked to share its findings with the police following which we shall also provide our version. “We tried to reply all queries that the team had posed and shall give to them officially after receiving their inputs in writing,” he said. Deshmukh said there are already magisterial enquiries underway in the two operations.  The team also probed the missing persons of Gattepalli and other so-called atrocities by the police on tribals in different parts of the district including Surjagarh.