KANNUR: Youths attending a temple ritual raising political slogans to the tunes of chenda. Kalasam, the earthen pot carrying neera, decked up with flowers, for the Goddess designed like martyr columns. Welcome to   where politics and religion are getting mixed in dangerous ways.

 The recently-concluded festival at   at   in the district has created a row with the groups and clubs affiliated to the BJP and   bringing the ‘kalasa kumbham’, giving political overtone to the festival, to the embarrassment of the temple authorities and the devotees.
 
 According to the temple authorities, they had called a meeting of different groups prior to the temple fest where a decision was taken not to grant permission to kalasams brought by groups and clubs. The kalasams were not to have political symbols or marks.
 
 However, on the day of the ritual, on March 9, around ten kalasas were ‘brought in by various clubs and groups. At least three were by those affiliated to the BJP and seven by CPM supporters. This led to tense situation, which was averted by the timely intervention of police, according to temple committee president  . There were a total of 79 kalasas.
 
 “The pots were decorated like memorial columns erected by the political parties and this cannot be approved,” he said. The decision to keep politics away from the temple ritual was taken officially in the presence of the police because, it had led to violence in the past, he said. Mixing politics in temple rituals cannot be approved, said historian and art critic K K Marar. When we mix religion with politics festivals will lose their sanctity, he said.
 
 In Kannur, many political clashes begin from minor scuffles during temple festivals and hence it is crucial that politics is kept away from temple rituals, he said.
 
 “Temple festivals are aimed to bring people together, but such developments would further polarize them leading to tension,” warned Marar.
 
 Though police have suo moto registered a case for misusing religious establishments, no arrest have been made so far.
 
 
 At Sreekurumba Bhagavati temple at Muzhappilangad clubs affiliated to the BJP and CPM paraded kalasa kumbham
 
 
