AMRITSAR: Jagdeep Singh, 50, a cycling enthusiast, arrived in Amritsar on Saturday, leading a group of 31 turbanators, a community of cyclists wearing turbans, from Delhi, demanding that   be allowed to wear the turban in cycling events organised by private entities. 

 Jagdeep, a resident of New Delhi, said he filed a writ petition in   to seek redressal for Sikhs who were not allowed to wear turban during cycling events organised by private bodies.
 
 A graphic designer, Jagdeep said he was not allowed to participate in the event, ‘Azad Hind Brevt’ held by Audax India Randonneurs ( ), an Indian cycling association in August 2015, because he was wearing a turban instead of a helmet.
 
 “I remember the day when I was not allowed to participate, unless I removed my turban and sported a helmet,” he said, adding that it was not his lone battle but for all existing and upcoming turbaned cyclists. 
 
 Even though the Indian constitution protects religious freedom and specifically provides for the wearing of the Sikh ‘kirpan,’ Jagdeep claimed that Sikhs had, over the last few years, faced a challenge in wearing their articles of faith, including the turban. He said he was even ready to give an undertaking of full responsibility in case of any misfortune while wearing a turban during the event.
 
 AIR officials did not comment. “We had also written to AIR asking it to allow Sikhs to cycle wearing their turbans. However, our efforts were in vain,” said Mejindarpal Kaur, legal director of the NGO,  . She said they had engaged pro-bono services of advocate Rupinder Singh Suri to take up Jagdeep’s legal battle, seeking the intervention of the Supreme Court to direct the Parliament to enact a legislation on this issue and to order the Central government to frame guidelines for such situations.
 
 She said the turbanators had covered a 500km ride from Delhi to Amritsar to raise awareness and funds, which would go to widows of farmers who committed suicide, in the form of monthly pension by United Sikhs under its ‘Rescue A Family’ project.
 
 
