BHOPAL: Two Union ministers Dharmendra  ,   and two senior party leaders Kailash Soni and Ajay Pratap Singh filed their nomination for Rajya Sabha from the state, on Monday. 

 Pradhan and Gehlot arrived in Bhopal on Sunday afternoon, where they met chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and other leaders. During filing of the nomination, the two leaders were accompanied by the chief minister, state BJP president Nandkumar Singh Chauhan, party ministers and MLAs.
 
 Pradhan was earlier elected to the Upper House from Bihar in 2012 whereas Gehlot has been renominated from the state. The tenure of both leaders will end on April 2. Two other local leaders, who were nominated for the Rajya Sabha, are senior organisation members.
 
 Kailash Soni heads party’s Narsinghpur district unit and the national unit of   (MISA detainee) Sangh. Ajay Pratap Singh is the state general secretary and a senior party worker representing Vindhya region. He contested the assembly elections in 2003 and 2008 but lost to the Congress candidate. 
 
 “I am happy to welcome all four party candidates, who have filed their nominations for the Upper House from the state. All four candidates are senior, experienced and capable. They will add to the development of the state,” the chief minister told reporters after the nomination.
 
 "The BJP will gain a lot in this Rajya Sabha elections as the party's strength in the Upper House would increase. This will help the party in taking important decisions in national interest,” said Gehlot. 
 
 “We are thankful to the party's national president Amit Shah and Prime Minister   for nominating three members in the Upper House from the state. All members are senior and would significantly contribute to the development of the state,” said state BJP president. 
 
 “On the last day of filing nominations, five candidates, four from the BJP and one from the Congress filed their papers for five seats of the Upper house. The scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on March 13 and the last date for withdrawing the nomination would be March 15. In this case, the election commission can declare names of elected candidates on March 15 as there is no other candidate in the fray,” said returning officer and principal secretary of Vidhan Sabha A P Singh.
 
 
