While the violence during the Bharat Bandh on April 2 died down, protests against the perceived dilution of Atrocity Act have continued. At a seminar in the city on Sunday, Dalit community members called for impeachment of the two Supreme Court judges who had passed the judgment barring immediate arrest of accused under Atrocity Act. 

 The seminar at   was called by Rashtriya Dalit Adhikar Manch (RDAM) founded by Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mewani to discuss the SC judgment and its implications. “Before April 14, the government should bring a notification on Atrocity Act (to repeal the recent order). If they don’t, we will not allow them to garland Dr Ambedkar’s statue,” said Mewani. 
 
 He revealed that on April 12, Dalit and Adivasi leaders from 15 states would be conducting a press conference in Delhi to appeal to the entire country to prevent BJP leaders from garlanding Ambedkar’s statue. Mewani also demanded impeachment of the two judges. While appealing to community members to avoid violence or damage to public property, he said that they would form a human chain in Sarangpur on April 14 ( ) and not let any BJP leader come to the area. 
 
 Similar programmes would be held in every district, he threatened. Calling the order a dilution of the Act, panelists said that it was injustice to people. They also called for Dalit-Muslim-Tribal unity to beat BJP in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections in 2019. Advocate  , former secretary of the Supreme Court Bar Council, said, “We should agree for nothing less than removal of two judges,” he said. 
 
 Calling for an inquiry into the order, he added, “In the 89 pages of the SC order, there are only four lines about this particular case. Everything else is against the community.” He pointed out that when the issue of misuse of section 498A had once come up, the Chief Justice had said the judiciary could not set guidelines and that it was the work of the government. 
 
 
 “Then why not in this case?” Arora asked. Taunting the government, he said, “If you still have a conscience, move for an impeachment now!” Speaking on the Union government’s role in the matter,  , an SC lawyer, said, “A notice went out to Attorney General KK Venugopal on November 20, 2017. He did not go himself but sent a junior to court. Yet, the government is lying about not being a party in the case.” Justice (retd) BG Kolse Patil of Mumbai High Court, also present at the seminar, said, “Our youths are not thinking on their own and so jumlas continue… Our motto should be ‘EVM hatao,  , poisonous BJP hatao’. We need to bring Dalits, Adivasis and Muslims together.”
