NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Monday said Buddha’s teachings were very relevant to combat dominance of casteism and dynastic politics.

 
 “At a time when terrorism, casteism, dynastic politics appear to be overshadowing the teachings of the Buddha, the talk of affection and friendship are becoming more relevant and important,” Modi said while inaugurating   celebrations on Monday.
 
 Modi once again recalled   and how the latter was influenced by the teachings of Buddha. Later, the Prime Minister shared pictures of his visits to Buddhist religious sites.
 
 “Our tradition, culture and history are evidence that we have never been aggressors. We have never attacked any country. It has never encroached upon (the territory) of any other country,” the Prime Minister said.
 
 Modi said all ideologies which had originated in India were based on the welfare of humankind and the environment. “Humanity was central to all the ideologies emerging from India,” he added. “Distinctions in society, between religions, races, castes and languages can never be a message of India or the teachings of the Buddha, and nor can there be a place for such thoughts,” he said.
 
 Citing example of Jews and Parsis, Prime Minister-Modi said they had been residing in India for centuries and had become an integral part of India's identity. “The country embraced individuals from any caste, religion, race or faith,” he said.
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi listed his government’s flagship initiatives such as opening bank accounts for the underprivileged, enabling a low-cost premium insurance scheme, free gas connections to poor households and other measures for welfare of the poor.
 
 The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the Prime Minister said, was helping in the restoration of Buddhist sites in Afghanistan, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and Myanmar.
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked culture minister Mahesh Sharma to ensure that all works on Buddha and studies done by Buddhist institutes were compiled and brought on a common platform through a web portal in a time-bound manner. 
 
