NEW DELHI: Four years and four months after   was found dead in suite number 345 of south Delhi's Leela Palace Hotel, Delhi Police has filed a chargesheet in the case which concludes that she committed suicide and names her husband, former   minister  , as the main accused for abetting the act.

 
 According to the chargesheet, Pushkar killed herself by consuming an overdose of antidepressant pills, alprazolam (Alprax), and was driven to taking the extreme step by her husband.
 
 Pushkar was found dead on the evening of January 17, 2014. Though it was a murder probe with the FIR registered under IPC Section 302 (murder), police have charged Tharoor under Sections 306 (abetment) and 498A (cruelty by husband) of the Indian Penal Code.
 
  
  
 The court hearing on framing of charges has been fixed for May 24. Tharoor will need to be present in court that day, as requested by the public prosecutor. He could be arrested then and given bail, police sources said.
 
 Dismissing the police's conclusion as "preposterous", Tharoor said he would contest the chargesheet and went on to slam the investigations. He also announced he was temporarily going off Twitter. "Staying off @Twitter for a while - one encounters too much epicaricacy!" he tweeted.
 
  
  
 The 3,000-page final report, prepared under the supervision of police commissioner Amulya Patnaik, names Tharoor in column 11 (details of accused). The reasons for naming him are the circumstances preceding Sunanda's death and the injury marks on her body. These were strengthened by the statement of Tharoor's staffer, Narain Singh, who said there had been scuffles between the couple.
 
 "No one who knew Sunanda believes she would ever have committed suicide, let alone abetment on my part. If this is conclusion arrived at after 4+ years of investigation, it does not speak well of the methods or motivations of the Delhi Police. In October 2017, the law officer made a statement in the Delhi high court that they have not found anything against anyone and now in six months they say that I have abetted a suicide. Unbelievable!" he said on Twitter. Soon after, Delhi Police issued a statement justifying its action. "On the basis of medico-legal and forensic evidence analysed during investigation as well as opinion of psychological autopsy experts, case (FIR No. 04/15) lodged at Sarojini Nagar police station, investigated by the special investigation team of South district, has been chargesheeted under section 306/498-A IPC," special police commissioner Dependra Pathak said. The chargesheet was filed in the court of metropolitan magistrate Dharmendra Singh by additional DCP Manishi Chandra and inspector V K Yadav.
 
 Police said Sunanda died three years and three-and-ahalf months after getting married to Tharoor, on August 22, 2010. They also mentioned in the final report that no allegations against Tharoor or anyone were made by the brothers and son of the deceased.
 
 The report says this was not a case of murder. "Our probe shows Sunanda, the legally wedded wife of Tharoor, was harassed and she went into depression... Consuming a large number of anti-depressant pills without prescription led to her death," an officer said, quoting from the chargesheet. The document cites medical reports, recoveries from the room and exchanges between the couple, along with Tharoor's exchanges with others, to show that the former minister had driven Pushkar to heavy depression.
 
