NEW DELHI :   requires a lot of water, both for the festivities as well for washing off the excesses. But be careful this year — you could be aggravating the   shortage in the city. The alarming level of ammonia in raw Yamuna water has left Delhi starved of a quarter of its normal water supply for over a month now. “To meet the demands we are rationing raw water, so supply in most city areas is at low pressure,” said a senior Delhi Jal Board official on Thursday.

 Dinesh Mohaniya, vice-chairman of DJB, advised people to use water judiciously. “We cannot supply extra water on Holi. Haryana hasn’t done anything to lower ammonia in water, and we have moved another application in the National Green Tribunal because a drinking water crisis is imminent,” Mohaniya said.
 
 People should store sufficient water because supply will be available at low pressure till the situation improves. DJB said the affected areas included west , north and, central Delhi, parts of south Delhi, including Delhi Cantonment and NDMC areas. 
 
 DJB and CPCB samplings have put current ammonia levels in the Yamuna at 2ppm, much above the 0.5ppm norms of the Bureau of Indian Standards. “We are mixing this with water from other sources to reduce the ammonia to 0.8ppm, but it still is very high,” a DJB official said. 
 
 Three of DJB’s water treatment plants are running at a total of 55 million gallons a day (MGD) below their operating capacity. “The Wazirabad plant with a capacity of 120 MGD treatment is getting 90MGD, the 96-MGD Chandrawal plant is almost 15 MGD short, while the Okhla works is running at 10MGD, almost half its peak capacity,” another official elaborated. 
 
 “Only 352 cusecs of water is being released from Hathnikund barrage,” the official said. “By the time it reaches Sonipat, only 50 MGD remains. At this point, more water is added but it contains high concentrations of ammonia, dyes and chlorides due to industrial effluent in Panipat.” 
 
 DJB can treat water with up to 0.9ppm of ammonia, but neutralising ammonia on a regular basis at such high levels leads to creation of toxic chlorine compounds. Water plants linked to the Munak CLC canal haven’t been affected.
 
 
