Visit any bank today and you are likely to find that queues and chaos are the order of the day. Sometimes the system is down, other times half the staff are down. Banking is simply not what it used to be in the good old days! Customer convenience has definitely taken a hit; even the pens provided to customers are secured with extra short strings, making filling-up badly designed forms and slips an ordeal.  The other day, a gentleman quipped that banks don’t even trust their customers with five-rupee pens while the customers trust them with all their money. Another one chipped in to say that while banks protect their pennies so dearly, they still allow thieves to flee with the pounds that are not sufficiently secured. Years ago, as a little boy, I accompanied my father to the local village bank. The accommodating and helpful officials brightened up when they learned we wanted to make a fixed deposit (FD), escorted us to the manager’s cabin, and made arrangements for tea and samosas. Those were the days when banks had just moved into villages and the common man was yet to develop his trust in these institutions. Most people kept their money and valuables at home, locked in cupboards and trunks, or hidden in ‘safe’ places including under mattresses and pillows. Bank managers, with local staffers in tow, would often go around soliciting savings accounts and deposits. The other day, as I dropped in at this good old bank after several years, I wondered if they treated depositors with as much reverence. Except for Anton the peon who still looked the most influential, I couldn’t spot any other familiar face. As I handed over my passbook to the lady officer concerned and told her that I wished to make an FD, she gave me a cold, disgruntled look before punching on the keyboard lazily.  A long while later, during which she consulted her colleagues, she smiled to say that my account had been closed and the money transferred to the treasury of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI). Quite honestly, I thought I had long withdrawn the last rupee and although I was pleasantly surprised at the mention of money, I tried not to show it. I just signed the required forms to get my money back even as I recalled how the bank manager had himself come to my housewhich has not moved an inch sinceto sweet-talk me into opening this very account. So, how could they have closed it without even bothering to inform me? On my way back, I encountered an old staff member who told me that the ‘tea and samosa diplomacy’ was now reserved only for customers like Nirav Modi. Prominently displayed at the entrance is fake gold jewellery to promote gold loans. The local goldsmith’s shop is now being managed by a cycle mechanic; the goldsmith himself is fully employed in checking the authenticity of gold ornaments at various banks.  Today, our trust or mistrust in banks is of little relevance. The common man has no option but to park his hard-earned money here, and with that, there seems to be a paradigm shift in the policy of the banks. Clearly, the emphasis is not to get your moneywhich you will deposit anywaybut to sell you loans that you may not actually need. The writer is an entrepreneur and columnist. Views expressed are personal.