Coimbatore: In fit of rage for not giving money to pay EMI, a 20-year-old fish trader stabbed his friend to death near   at Thudiyalur on Thursday night. The fish trader took his friend to a hospital, where the doctors declared him brought dead.

 P Ajithkumar, 20, of   near Thudiyalur, was later arrested by the rural police. Police identified the deceased as V Parthiban, 25, of Appanaickenpalayam near Thudiyalur. 
 
 On Thursday night, Ajithkumar was drinking liquor with his roommate S  , 23, a construction worker, in their room at Vellakinar. In the middle of their act, Ajithkumar phoned Parthiban and asked him to give money to pay EMI for his motorcycle. Parthiban, who was working in a private firm and pursuing part-time BE course, refused to give money. 
 
 Following this, Ajithkumar asked Parthiban to meet him near Ragam Bakery. Ajithkumar and Praveenkumar went in a two-wheeler to the spot. When they reached the spot, the duo fell from the bike after losing control of it. Parthiban saw this and rushed to help them. But Ajithkumar and Praveenkumar started an argument with Parthiban. At one point, Ajithkumar took a knife and stabbed Parthiban on his chest, abdomen and left thigh, the police said.
 
 On seeing severe loss of blood, the duo informed the 108 services stating that they fell from a motorcycle and suffered injuries. Parthiban was taken to the  , where doctors declared him dead due to severe loss of blood before reaching the hospital. 
 
 Meanwhile, Praveenkumar suddenly fainted in the hospital. On examination, doctors found severe injuries on his chest. “We don’t know the cause of the injuries and are inquiring whether he sustained the injuries during the tussle,” said a police officer.
 
 Based on a video footage recorded in cameras near the bakery, the police arrested Ajithkumar for murdering Parthiban. Praveenkumar is undergoing treatment at the intensive care unit (ICU) of the hospital. 
 
 The Thudiyalur police have registered a case and further investigation is on.
 
 All the three youths were native of   village in Kodaikanal. They came to Coimbatore about six years ago searching for jobs. 
 
 
