Kolkata: Sukhada Murmu, one of the two junior works managers (JWM) of Rifle Factory   arrested by STF, was promoted a few months ago despite being accused of being involved in the smuggling of arms in September, 2017, a source in the factory revealed. In September, 2017, STF had arrested Sambhu Bhattacharjee, another JWM of RFI, along with arms dealer Deepak Shaw. Apart from Bhattacharjee’s, Murmu’s name also featured in the complaint that authorities received by e-mail.

 “Despite being named in the complaint, Murmu was promoted from charge man to JWM, a Group-B gazetted officer. Sushanta Basu, the other JWM arrested in the last few days, was Murmu’s senior but not named in any complaint. As a charge man, Murmu worked for the stores department. After his promotion, he was transferred to the yard. It is possible that he got involved in the racket due to his close proximity to contractors and contractual workers as a charge man,” a source in RFI said.
 
 Among those arrested with Murmu and Basu was Umesh Roy alias Bhola, a labour contractor at RFI who supplied workers to clear undergrowth within the factory premises. Bhola admitted that he stole a long-barrel 0.32 revolver from the factory premises. This was among the revolvers seized by the STF. The smuggling of scrap out from the factory is another story altogether.
 
 “At any point of time, there is sufficient scrap that can be used to assemble 300-500 assault rifles, provided people know what the components are. Inadequate checks and an improper audit system allowed unscrupulous contractors to take out scrap and expose them to criminals and gun-runners. Ideally, the scrap is to be melted in furnaces immediately. There is at least one firm in Howrah that doesn’t dispose of scrap fast enough. Those used to the guns manufactured at RFI would easily identify parts such as springs and levers from the scrap. It is suspected that some spares would also be passed out of the factory as scrap. Some of the parts would require a little cleaning, buffing or polishing and before being used for assembling a weapon,” another official added.
 
 
