BENGALURU :   and XPrize announced on Wednesday that they are calling off the competition to land a privately funded craft on the Moon, a move that deals a blow to the aspirations of many who over the past several years had put their heart and resources into the young Indian team that was among the finalists in the competition.

 IIT-Delhi graduate Rahul Narayan’s TeamIndus, together with Israeli team Space-IL, were seen by many as the most likely to achieve the feat of landing a craft on the Moon by March this year, and have a rover move 500 metres on the lunar surface taking pictures and videos.
 
 The first to accomplish the feat would have received $20 million in prize money, apart from all the prestige and global attention that would have come with it. There were other prizes for achieving various milestones.
 
  
 
 
 X Prize said that after close consultation with its five finalist teams over the past several months, it had concluded that no team would make a launch attempt to reach the Moon by the March 31 deadline. “This literal ‘moonshot’ is hard, and while we did expect a winner by now, due to the difficulties of fundraising, technical and regulatory challenges, the grand prize of the $30 million Google Lunar XPrize will go unclaimed,” it said.
 
 TeamIndus began in 2010 when  , with IIT-Delhi friend Indranil Chakraborty, registered for the competition, a little before the registrations were to close. The sheer ambition impressed many and within a few years it had support from industry bigwigs and space experts, including Sam Pitroda, Kiran Karnik, former chairman of   Arun Seth, former   chairman K Kasturirangan, Rajiv Mody of  , and companies, including L&T and  . In the past few years, it got a whole galaxy of high-profile financial supporters, including  ,  , Sachin Bansal, Binny Bansal, Venu Srinivasan, and Accel Partners’ Shekhar Kirani and Subrata Mitra. Sachin Bansal told TOI in 2016 that among all startups in India, his biggest hope was TeamIndus.
 
 None of that turned out to be enough for the company to meet the deadline. There was anger among some of the long-time supporters. “I’m disappointed, disappointed specially that all of us could not rally behind what was truly a moonshot. It was a moonshot well within reach. As a country, we’ve to become more supportive of such efforts. It’s about our self-belief as a nation,” Sharad Sharma, co-founder of software product association iSpirt, said.
 
 Pramod Varma, chief architect of Aadhaar, tweeted: “It’s a shame @TeamIndus couldn’t make it. This would have been peanuts for Indian Billionaires and VCs!”
 
 The common refrain is that TeamIndus could not raise enough money to ensure a launch vehicle and tie up enough partners. But speaking to TOI on Wednesday, Narayan remained his modest self and declined to blame anyone but himself.
 
 “I wish we had done a few things earlier,” he said. He wishes he had started building his team earlier – he began in earnest only in 2015. He wishes he had put together a business plan earlier, one that funders would have appreciated, instead of focusing on capability building and engineering.
 
 He said he met the heads of the largest companies in India for funds, but most companies were grappling with their own market struggles — presumably because of the downturn over the past two years. “But I guess we did not present our potential in a coherent way,” he said. However, he’s convinced he has built the base for a solid aerospace company that has huge potential in the coming years. “We were judged by the best in the aerospace industry in the course of the competition, and we came out extremely well in spacecraft design, rover design, control systems design, mission management design,” he said.
 
 He said he had travelled the world in the course of the competition, to lunar science congresses, and everywhere he found people and governments eager to know how new-age companies like TeamIndus can address the issues of space travel and exploration, especially the issue of expense. Governmental space programmes are very expensive, and the XPrize competition was designed to help create new technologies and models that can significantly bring down these costs. Is he still planning to land a craft on the Moon? “We are headed to the Moon. We just need a few more partners,” he said.
 
 
