CHENNAI: The city may be in for at least one spell of rain this month, said weathermen. The next five days are set to witness pre-monsoon showers in interior parts of  . The city is not likely to get rainfall in the next few days, but   and   will keep the temperature in check.

 “The city may get a spell of rain in aweek from now,” said regional meteorological centre former deputy director general Y E A Raj. During the pre-monsoon period (March – May), interior districts of Tamil Nadu receive much more rainfall as compared to coastal districts such as Chennai.
 
 The southern peninsula received showers in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka due to cloud formation caused by intense heat and moisture in the air. Moderate to heavy rainfall occurred in the 24 hours until 8.30am across TN with the exception of northern coastal districts such as Chennai.
 
 Pulipatti (Madurai district) received 12.6cm rainfall, Kovilankulam (Virudhunagar district) received 11.6cm, Maniyachi (Tuticorin district) 11.2cm, Valparai PTO (Coimbatore district), Thuvakudi (Trichy district) 5.7cm, Thalavadi (Erode district) 5.2cm and Palacode (Dharmapuri district) received 4.3cm.
 
 The southwest monsoon, which brings the city 30% of the city’s annual rainfall, sets in over Tamil Nadu in June. “It is normal for SW monsoon to set in seven days before or after June 1,” said Raj. The SW monsoon set in over TN on May 30 last year. The maximum temperature fell by almost a degree on Wednesday to 36.2°C. “The solar radiation received in the city is on the rise. It is set to peak in a week or two. The easterlies blowing from the sea into the land may help control heat, but once the westerlies take over, the temperature will begin to rise towards the 40°C mark.”
 
 The maximum and minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be around 37°C and 29°C at Nungambakkam. The maximum temperature is likely to be in the range of 38-41°C in Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Karur, Trichy and Perambalur districts.
 
 
