GURGAON: A city court has directed police to book a Gurgaon-based real estate company and its directors for cheating investors.

  allegedly sold units to investors in  , a   in  , nearly eight years back without then having an approved building plan. The developer is also accused of selling common toilets as office space in another commercial project —   — on Golf Course Road (extension).
 
 Judicial magistrate (1st class)   ordered the registration of an FIR for cheating, fraud and criminal breach of trust against Sana Realtors and its directors on January 5, observing the builder started taking money from investors in Precision Soho Tower in April 2010 when it didn’t have the required approval for the building plan.
 
 The developer got the approval only in July 2011, which is clear from the builder-buyer agreement signed dated April 12, 2010, in which the requisite licence column was left blank, the court observed, directing the police to investigate and file a compliance report in the case by February 8.
 
 The order was passed on a complaint filed by Yash Handa and Praveen Saluja, who had booked units in Precision Soho Tower. “The buidling plan was approved almost a year after I had booked the unit in April 2010. The builder fraudulently induced investors like me to purchase flats and deposit their hard earned money even before approval of the building plan,” he said.
 
 Handa also claimed the developer first took more than 20% of the unit cost and then forwarded the “one-sided” builder-buyer agreement in April 2010.
 
 “We were threatened that our money would be forfeited in case we resisted to sign the buyers agreement. The project was to be completed in three years’ time, but it’s running behind schedule,” he said.
 
 Saluja alleged the builder unilaterally changed the units and overcharged external development charges (EDC) and infrastructure development charges (IDC). “Mandatory norms of licences were also breached by the developer,” he said.
 
 The builder is also accused of selling common toilets as office space in its Silverton Towers project. Handa, who owns another office space in that project, claimed to have found out through an RTI query that multiple buyers were handed over common toilets as office space there.
 
 In its preliminary probe, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has also found the allegations to be true. When contacted, a DTCP official said, “Similarly during inspection of Precision Soho Tower in beginning of 2017, we found the developer was planning to sell out common toilets.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Sana Realtors could not be contacted.
 
 
