BENGALURU: Shortage of weekend train tickets and   have forced an increasing number of Bengalureans to turn to   like BlaBlaCar.

 
 Inter-city carpooling gained popularity with private bus operators charging high fares and the state government failing to put a cap on them. For instance, a Bengaluru-Chennai private bus fare for Wednesday is around Rs 3,000, but one can get a seat for Rs 500-Rs 800 through BlaBlaCar on the same route.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “It’s cheap and convenient,” said Karthikeyan H, a regular user of BlaBlaCar. “There’s no hassle, especially during weekends when prices of bus tickets shoot up,” added Karthikeyan, who travels regularly between Bengaluru and Chennai.
 
 French car-pooling firm BlaBlaCar launched services in India in 2015 and connects private car owners with potential passengers travelling to the same destination through a portal and an application. There are also several intercity carpooling groups on Facebook and WhatsApp that connect with people travelling towards the same destination. Cost of diesel and toll charges are shared among passengers.
 
 However, most carpooling users are men, probably because security is a concern for women travellers. “I regularly use Ola Share and Uber Pool. I feel it’s safe to share rides with strangers in the city, but I don’t want to take a risk with overnight trips,” says Sheena N, a teacher.
 
 To improve safety, BlaBlaCar has introduced government ID verification for its members. However, the carpooling sector is largely unregulated by government agencies. Also, these operators don’t pay additional taxes unlike private buses.“We haven’t marketed our inter-city carpooling service yet, but many people have started using it particularly during weekends,” said K N M Rao, founder, Quick Ride carpool app.
 
 “In Bengaluru alone, Quick Ride sees over 20,000 carpooling rides daily. More people are taking to carpooling due to advanced technology and more awareness,” he added.
 
 “Almost 95% of travellers book in advance for  . For weekends trips, bookings are usually full by Thursday or Friday afternoon,” said Sudhindra Reddy, COO of Zoomcar, a self-drive car rental firm.
 
 Ola Outstation, which launched in Bengaluru in 2016, is also gaining popularity. “Bengaluru-Mysuru-Bengaluru is one of the most travelled routes in the country,” said Ola in an email response. “Ola Outstation has been witnessing high uptake, especially around long weekends and festive holidays,” it added.
 
 
 
 
 
 Thanks to the long weekend due to Mahavir Jayanthi and Good Friday, many private buses are charging more than thrice the KSRTC bus fare. The transport department, which recently fixed minimum and maximum fares for cabs, has been unable to rein in private buses.
 
 Recently, the transport department proposed fares between Rs 35 and Rs 50 per km for various categories of contract carriage buses, and bus operators would be allowed to revise tariff by 10% during festive season.
 
 The proposal, however, is yet to get the government’s go-ahead. The department also decided to publicize the maximum fares that private buses can charge from Bengaluru to various cities, following government approval. Currently, many private operators charge over five times the tariff proposed by the department. Sources say opposition from the private bus lobby is delaying the move.
 
 “Once the government approves the proposed fare, we’ll take action against errant private bus operators,” said a senior transport department official.
 
 
