NAGPUR: Over the years, orthopaedics has emerged as the fastest growing medical speciality with surgeons moving ahead with technology. In the past, the surgeons used to only replace big joints such as hips. They are now capable of replacing smaller joints like shoulders, fingers and ankles. More such other replacements will be possible with the development of technology, said Dr   from Gold Coast Private Hospital, Australia.

 Talking to TOI on the sidelines of an event ‘Meet the Masters’, organized by Vidarbha Orthopaedic Society on Sunday, Dr Bindra, a hand, wrist and upper limb surgeon, said, “We used to have one plate to fix all fractures. Now we have plates that match the bone and the type of fractures. In the past, there used to be a plate and a T-shaped plate. Now there are over 15 types of plates and different sizes of screws.” 
 
 Developments have taken place in the metal used to make plates and its engineering aspect. Over the years, surgeons have learnt to take better care of patients’ injuries and save people who, in the past, would have died in road accidents. There are better resuscitation and intensive care units, and surgeons can time the surgery, he said. 
 
 “Patients face less complications and surgeons can make sure that they have less time in a plaster cast,” said Dr Bindra, adding, “The financial loss and disruption of life is much less now than it was many years ago.” 
 
 “When I began training in India 25 years ago, almost everything went in the cast. Now, it does not happen as we have the option to fix almost every type of fracture. He said the industries that make plates are now coming up in India. Some more inputs and funding from the government are required for building infrastructure to help local industries thrive. More certification and local implants will make surgery economical,” said Dr Bindra.
 
 The cases of joint replacements, arthritis and trauma are high in number that a surgeon has to deal with due to road accidents and lack of safety in industries. It was also observed that many patients delay taking treatment though quality healthcare is available in India. Many patients first go to bone-setters or ‘haad vaids’ for treatment. When the condition becomes worse, these patients approach a surgeon who has to start correcting the fracture from a bad position, he added. 
 
 Dr   called for strict implementation of rules to rein in such ‘haad vaids’ so that the patients could get proper treatment from an orthopaedic surgeon.
 
 He also conducted a workshop and shared his journey on management of distal radius fractures. 
 
 
