NAGPUR: It is said: Every effort begins with a dream. Just a couple of weeks ago, city’s ace shuttler   was dreaming about becoming India No. 1 in the national rankings. Now, it seems she may realize her dream sooner than later.

 
 The 21-year-old Vaishnavi has jumped three places to rise to India No. 2 in the latest rankings released by the   ( ) on Friday.
 
 Previously, Vaishnavi had reached her career-best India ranking of five. The in-form shuttler took her grand total of points to 2,159 to jump to second spot.
 
 Anura Prabhudesai of Air India extended her stay at the top with 3,274 points. The tall Goan girl is Vaishnavi’s doubles partner.
 
 Nagpur southpaw Rasika Raje now moved up to fifth place from sixth. Two more city teenagers are in the India’s top-20 -- Malvika Bansod at No. 14 and Mugdha Agrey, who had reached pre-quarterfinal at the Orleans Masters in France on Thursday, slipped to No. 16 from No. 8.
 
 In the last three All India senior ranking tournaments, Vaishnavi produced consistent performance. She had finished runners-up at Sikkim and Bareilly.
 
 While she lost to Anura at Sikkim in December last, her regular practice partner Malvika surprised Vaishnavi in the all-Nagpur final at Bareilly in January.
 
 In the last meet at Dehradun in February, Vaishnavi was upset in the semifinals by Kanika Kanwal of Railways.
 
 Vaishnavi, a second year Arts student of LAD College, is absolutely delighted to see her name at the second spot. “It was a pleasant surprise for me. I really did not expect to move from No. 5 to No. 2 within a few days. My dream is to become India No. 1 soon and I will work hard to achieve it this year. I will also start participating regularly in international tournaments to improve my world rankings,” Vaishnavi told TOI on Friday.
 
 Vaishnavi’s coach   was very happy to see his ward’s rapid climb up the ladder. “It’s a fantastic achievement. It will boost her confidence a great deal. I am happy with the way she performed in the one year or so. She was unlucky to clinch the All India title this season but I am confident she will achieve much more in the years to come,” said Makode.
 
 As and when Vaishnavi reaches No. 1 ranking, she will emulate her senior counterpart  , who was delighted upon learning of Vaishnavi’s progress. But she cautioned her that the road from here onwards will be tough and consistency and determination would be the key to success.
 
 “That’s a great news for her and Nagpur badminton. My best wishes are always with her. I just wanted to advise her to be consistent. It is easy to reach there but to stay there is the most difficult part. So, I would say she should practice harder. That’s what she can do,” said Arundhati. 
 
 
