TRICHY:   has ventured into the process of achieving self-reliance by establishing its own nursery on   on Tuesday. Instead of relying on private and other nurseries to source tree saplings and flowering plants for improvising the green cover and beautifying the city, the city corporation has launched preliminary works for installing a nursery.

 Besides cutting down the cost involved in sourcing saplings from other nurseries, the civic body has also planned to distribute native tree saplings and ornamental plants grown in the corporation’s nursery. Since a portion of the civic body’s land situated over the   Road close to the Amma canteen compound had been less-utilised as identified zone for dumping construction debris, the civic body recently came up with a plan to utilise the vacant space to open a nursery.
 
 With preliminary work for the corporation’s nursery underway, official sources said that the facility would be established with poly houses, a tubular structure with favourable environment for growth of tree saplings and plants. Being built at an estimated cost of Rs 26 lakh, the nursery may also provide lemon grass to residents as the plant belonging to grass family is known for being an affordable mosquito repellent. “During tree sapling plantation events and to improve city’s green cover, we had been relying on other nurseries thus far. By establishing a nursery on our own, we can bring down the cost involved,” an official with Trichy Corporation said.
 
 Sprawling for 10,000 sq ft, the works taken up for nursery is likely to conclude in next two weeks while growing saplings would begin in a month. Required quantum of water for the crops through drip irrigation system is to be sourced from overhead tank (OHT) of civic body situated at a stone’s throw distance on East Boulevard Road. Apart from considering the civic body’s own nursery as an initiative to cut down the cost, corporation officials said that these nurseries would encourage denizens to improve green cover of the city.
 
 “As we are focusing more to establish new parks for developing recreational facilities, the need for ornamental plants and saplings of native tree breeds can be addressed with our own nursery,” the corporation official added. Apart from the nursery planned in East Boulevard road falling under Ariyamangalam zone, similar facility is expected to come up in Srirangam zone. 
 
 
