JOHANNESBURG: One of Justice RM Lodha Committee’s many recommendations, directed by the Supreme Court for the   to implement, was about reducing the five-member selection committee to three.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 While the said recommendation led to quite a bit of debate over whether three national selectors would do justice to a job that entails tracking cricket across the length and breadth of a vast domestic circuit like India’s, nobody has bothered yet figuring if the national selectors’ existing mandate is justified enough in its present form.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 Former wicketkeeper-batsman   is in South Africa right now, touring with the Indian team. But whether or not Prasad has any say in picking the eleven ahead of a Test match is absolutely unclear. In any case, with Prasad not around, only two full-time selectors happen to be back in India when at least a dozen batsmen from various states have already busy knocking on the India doors.
 
 Close to 12 years ago, when former India Test batsman Dilip Vengsarkar took over as the chairman of selectors, it was his call that brought the likes of MS Dhoni, Virat Kohli, Ishant Sharma and a lot many others into international focus. That aside, as the chief selector touring with the Indian team to England in 2007, Vengsarkar played a role in picking the final eleven for a side that won that series.
 
 Right now, with the Indian top order clearly struggling to find its feet in South Africa, TOI has learned that the team management is sure of the steps it will want to take if the match at the Wanderers ends up anywhere close to the ones at Newlands and the SuperSport Park.
 
 Mayank Agarwal, 26, from Bengaluru and 18-year-old Prithvi Shaw from Mumbai are two among a list of 10 to 12 prospective batsmen who have shown the right potential to make a case for national selection. Meanwhile, the likes of Karun Nair and Kedar Jadhav, who’ve already featured in Indian XIs at home, are at the front in the queue that’s only growing.
 
 The question is how merely two selectors back in India are tracking such a vast ecosystem with Prasad on tour.
 
 The selectors picked Parthiv Patel as the second wicket-keeper on this tour of South Africa and now with Wriddhiman Saha getting injured, they decided to fly in Dinesh Karthik as replacement. The decision smacked of a mindset to keep looking back to the previous decade instead of looking forward to the coming one.
 
 The BCCI will do better to have a pre-mandated guideline for the selection committee alongside answering the all-important question surrounding Prasad and the Test match playing eleven.
 
