Ludhiana: Ludhiana police on Sunday arrested a person for sacrilege of a Sikh holy book, after he allegedly snatched the same from a woman and tore its pages in Rishi Nagar. The accused was identified as Bhupinder Singh (36) of Rishi Nagar. Police officials said Bhupinder was under acute depression for the past some time due to domestic reasons. They added that early on Sunday morning, he left home and went to a gurdwara in Y Block of Rishi Nagar, which is in his neighbourhood.

 Cops said two women were reciting Sukhmani Sahib (Sikh holy book) in the gurdwara at that time. They added that the accused went straight to a woman Harjinder Kaur of the same area, and snatched the holy book from her, before running outside the gurdwara. Police officials said the accused then tore a few pages of the holy book, and devotees outside the gurdwara saw him carrying out the sacrilege. They added that the onlookers then caught hold of the accused and stopped him from tearing more pages of the holy book.
 
 Cops said one of the devotees then called the police control room number. On being informed, cops from Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) police station, led by station house officer (SHO) Brij Mohan, reached the spot. Later, assistant commissioner of police (ACP) West Gurpreet Singh also visited the gurdwara where the incident happened. Brij Mohan said the accused was arrested and booked under Section 295A (hurting religious sentiments) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He added that the act of the accused was caught on a CCTV installed at the religious place. Gurpreet Singh said Bhupinder’s father Harbhajan was a ‘granthi’ (priest), and had died a few years ago. He added that Bhupinder, his mother, and brother (who works as salesman) were ‘Amritdharis’.
 
 Police officials said Bhupinder had studied up to seventh or eighth standard and worked as well, but left the job some time ago. They added that his family told the police he was under tremendous mental stress and not in a proper state of mind, and so might have committed the sacrilege under depression. Cops said the torn pages of the holy book were collected with due respect, and would be deposited in the gurdwara where they were kept, before sending them to Anandpur Sahib.
 
 OTHER INCIDENTS
 
 January 29, 2017: Hathur police in Jagraon booked an unidentified miscreant for desecration of a Sikh holy book after its torn pages were found in a drain in Rasoolpur village. 
 
 April 29, 2017: Panic had gripped Lama Jatpur village in Jagraon after the torn pages of a Sikh holy book were found near a garbage dump in the area.
 
 September 19, 2017: A villager of Detwal burnt the pages of a holy book allegedly after his wife gave birth to their fifth daughter at Civil Hospital in Mullanpur.
 
 
