THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Additional chief secretary (home and vigilance)   has issued an order against implementing court orders against the government without consulting the higher authorities. The order was issued in the wake of repeated instances of government orders, especially service related matters, being challenged in the court.

 The order has asked all department heads, including the state police chief, to seek the provision for appeal before implementing court orders against the government policy. The order said that even if such court orders had a stipulated time frame said in it, those should be brought to the knowledge of the government before the order is implemented. It strictly warned the officials against implementing such court orders unilaterally.
 
 Top police sources said that even though it was issued as a general circular, a recent instance in which the government had to face embarrassment in the court triggered such a move. The government had dismissed a police officer in 2008 as part of disciplinary action and the officer had approached the   administrative tribunal against his dismissal. The   ruled in favour of the officer, and the officer approached the SP concerned (of the district where he belonged to) with the order, who had taken steps to reinstate him in the service, this year. This was done without consulting the matter with the government.
 
 The government subsequently moved the high court against the KAT order with an appeal, but the court dismissed the government petition, admonishing the government for coming up with an appeal after reinstating the officer in the service. Moreover, since the officer has been reinstated, the government will also have to provide monetary compensation to the officer for his period of dismissal that would come to a huge sum. It was in these circumstances that the home secretary decided to come up with a circular warning all officials against taking decisions without consultation.
 
 Interestingly, while the home secretary has asked all officials to take the legal opinion from the government in the cases in which the government is the respondent, it was last week that vigilance director   asked the investigating officials not to take the legal opinion from their legal advisers too seriously. He had issued a circular that said that the legal opinion in the vigilance cases were seriously affecting the probe in many cases, and the legal opinion of the legal advisers should not be considered binding on them.
 
