BHOPAL: Technical education minister   has instructed officials to turn down any application for opening new engineering college in the state, owing to poor admissions in the existing ones.

 In the last two years, 16 private engineering colleges in the state have closed down after seats in them remained vacant. According to official data, around 50% of the 90,000 seats in engineering colleges found no takers.
 
 When contacted, Director Technical Education (DTE),   said the state is not in a position to open new engineering colleges. “After receiving instructions from minister   has been informed that   does not require new engineering campus,” said Kumar.
 
 With waning interest among students, the managements of some engineering colleges are trying to utilise the infrastructure which is already in place for other technical courses, sources said.
 
 “Mushrooming of colleges in the past led to this situation. We need quality and not the quantity at this point. Still, there are around 219 private colleges in the state and they will survive by providing quality education,” said a senior official.
 
 When it comes to colleges getting shut down , MP is not the exception. Engineering colleges across the country are facing the heat and southern states, where engineering colleges have mushroomed, are also in deep waters, he added.
 
 Concentration of colleges in cities like   (there are around 90 engineering colleges in Bhopal) and Indore also led to the decision of not allowing new colleges for academic session 2018-19.
 
 In 2016, colleges ‘surrendered’ 6,000 seats, fearing these would find no takers. Sources said, last year around 14,000 seats were reduced in private colleges with admission done on around 70,500 seats in both private and government colleges this year.
 
 Notably, directorate of technical education and Madhya Pradesh Universities Private Regulatory Commission had organised a brainstorming session at   (MPCOST) in 2014 to discuss the reasons behind the poor state of engineering institutes in the state.
 
