NEW DELHI: Is the   of the Indian economy much larger than traditionally assumed? The   argues that it is and depending on how we define what is formal, it could account for over half of all non-farm jobs.

 Combining data from the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC), National Sample Survey Organisation (NSSO) and   tax payers, the survey says that if registration under the GST is seen as an indicator of formality, 53 per cent of all non-farm jobs, or about 12.7 crore out of 24 crore, are in the formal sector, including about 1.5 crore government jobs. If only firms covered by   or   — and, of course, government jobs — are seen as part of the formal sector, the number shrinks to 7.5 crore or 31 per cent of the total.
  
 The data also provides an insight into the share of various kinds of formal or informal sector firms in turnover, GST collections and exports. Of the roughly 7.1 crore firms in the country, a mere 4 lakh are “purely formal” in the sense of being covered by EPFO or ESIC as well as by GST. Despite constituting a mere 0.6 per cent of the firms, they account for 38 per cent of total turnover, 87 per cent of exports, 63 per cent of GST liabilities and 18 per cent of non-farm jobs or about 4.5 crore jobs.
 
 The number of firms within the GST net, but outside the social security net of EPFO or ESIC is a little over 88 lakh or about 12 per cent of all firms. These firms account for 41 per cent of turnover, 13 per cent of exports and 37 per cent of the GST liabilities and employ 6.7 crore people, which is around 28 per cent of nonfarm jobs.
 
 Another 0.9 lakh firms, which are less than 0.1 per cent of the total, are under EPFO or ESIC coverage but not in the GST net. These are either in GST-exempt sectors like education, health and electricity or are within sectors covered by GST but not registered for it, whether due to being below the threshold or otherwise. Such firms account for about 14 per cent of the turnover and 1.5 crore jobs, a mere 0.6 per cent of nonfarm jobs.
 
 The largest chunk of firms is in what the Survey refers to as “purely informal”, being outside the GST net and not covered by EPFO or ESIC. They number about 6.2 crore or 87 per cent of all firms. However, they account for just 7 per cent of the total turnover and have no share in exports or GST liabilities, of course. At 9.2 crore, their share of non-farm jobs remains substantial at 38 per cent. But that also means that 62 per cent of all non-farm jobs are in firms that are in some sense formal or in government.
 
