Our generation is waking up to a new epidemic and has started to feel the heat of lifestyle related diseases like diabetes, heart disease and cancer. The biggest hindrance in the control of   is lack of knowledge of the disease. So let's discuss some common myths about diabetes and the actual facts.

 Diabetes can be cured by medicines. Fact: Diabetes is a progressive disease. It can only be controlled with help of medicines, exercise and healthy diet. It cannot be cured.
 
 
 Ayurvedic medicines are best for treating diabetes. Fact: Ayurvedic medicines can be taken along with allopathic medicines under guidance of doctor; Ayurvedic medicines alone are not always helpful.
 
 Eating bitter substances like bitter gourd (karela), neem, methi, etc. will reduce the blood sugar levels. Fact: Bitter substances have minimum effect on blood sugar (BS) levels; on the contrary they may cause severe gastritis and lead to stomach problems. 
 
 
  If I eat less, my blood sugar will be controlled. Fact: The BS will definitely be low if you eat less but the weakness which follows will hamper your daily activities or it may lead to hypoglycemia (low BS) and unconsciousness. 
 
 People needing insulin are in serious trouble. Fact: Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus is a progressive disease and most people may require insulin later, but with it may lead a perfectly healthy life.
 
 Medicines affect the kidneys and such people may require dialysis. Fact: All medicines (allopathic, Ayurvedic, herbal) can affect the kidneys or other vital organs of the body to some extent if not taken under the supervision of a doctor. The effect of uncontrolled diabetes not only damages the kidney permanently but may also lead to dialysis. Conclusion is that the benefits of medicines far overweigh the risks.
 
 
  My BS is always 200 and above, but I don't have any problem. My wounds don't take time to heal. Thus, I don't have to bother about diabetes Fact: Blood sugar 200 and above is always dangerous even though you are not feeling any symptoms. Diabetes is a slow progressive disease and if the BS is not under control then all the blood vessels in the body start getting affected ultimately leading to dangerous complications of the heart, eyes, kidneys and feet. Glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) test is the most sensitive test to determine our BS control. 
 
  Once the blood sugar is normal; one can start eating everything. Fact: Blood sugar depends on the type of food eaten, the amount of physical activity (exercise) and the stress levels; which keep on changing daily. So if a person starts eating everything after the blood sugar is normal, his levels are definitely going to increase.
 
 
  I will know that I have diabetes from the symptoms. Fact: Type 2 diabetes always doesn't have severe symptoms like increased thirst, increased hunger, weight loss, tiredness etc. in the earlier stages. The above mentioned symptoms are seen much later when the BS starts rising above 250mg/dl. 
 
 
  If I have diabetes, I just have to keep my BS under control to be fit. Fact: Diabetes is not wholly related to BS, but in fact it affects all the systems of your body. So you need to keep your BP, cholesterol, uric acid and weight under control which is also helpful for a healthy heart.
 
 
 There is an alternative to insulin in the form of tablets. Fact: No. Insulin is not available in tablet form and is only available as injection. Insulin injection is administered subcutaneously (under the skin), which makes it virtually painless.
 
 
  I have ‘mild’ diabetes so I am unlikely to get any complications of diabetes. Fact: There is no such thing as ‘mild’ diabetes. If a person has diabetes the BS may go out of control any time, for e.g. during stress, any kind of infection - cough, cold, fever, foot injury, etc. So it is always important to take timely tests as advised by your doctor to prevent further complications of diabetes.
 
 It is advisable to take guidance and solve your queries from your doctor. 
 
 
 , MBBS, D. Diab, C. Diab, Diabetologist, Bliss Diabetes Centre, Vasai
 E-mail: bensteyg@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
