MAPUSA/PANAJI: The state government is set to initiate a first-of-its-kind development model in Goa wherein it will expand   town without land acquisition, urban development minister   said on Saturday.

 “There will be no money transactions involved, so there will be no talk of corruption. Everyone will be compensated in kind,” D’Souza told STOI.
 
 
 “We are offering land owners a floor area ratio (FAR) of
 
 300. So, the land owner will get back one-third of his or her land developed with infrastructure and also get an FAR of 300 for it,” D’Souza said.
 
 “There is no land left in Mapusa and we have to look at the land surrounding the town for further development,” D’Souza said. Much of the land on the outskirts of Mapusa town are agriculture fields.
 
 “The purpose behind this scheme is to bring about uniformity and symmetry in planning in these new areas to be added to the town. At present, some owners are developing their lands according to their own needs,” he said. 
  
 
 The expansion of Mapusa town will be carried out in two phases.
 
 ‘Infra devpt will make plots profitable for land owners’
 
 Downtown   will see the development of 11 lakh sqm around Mapusa, while phase-II will see development of 7 lakh sqm at Morod,   and part of Camarcazana.
 
 The Mapusa comunidade owns 6 lakh sqm, the comunidades of Khorlim, Canca, Guirim and Assagao own smaller areas to be developed, while the rest are owned by private owners. Much of the land is also tenanted.
 
 “Land from the owners or tenants will be taken for development as per the plans prepared by the consultant without land acquisition,” said D’Souza. “The government will develop plots with infrastructure. One-third of the land will be given back to the land owner, one-third shall be with the government, while one-third will be used for infrastructure facilities such as roads, power cabling, sewerage etc,” D’Souza said.
 
 The state government is currently working out the modalities for the land-ratio policy and will notify it subsequently, D’Souza said. The preparation of the town planning scheme will be carried out as per relevant sections of the Town and Country Planning (TCP) Act, from section 56 to section 98. Section 56 also specifies the minimum size of the plot to be developed, said D’Souza.
 
 Earlier on Saturday, along with chairperson of the Mapusa municipal council Rohan Kavlekar and the ward councillors of the town, D’Souza said the development of infrastructure will make the plots profitable to the land owners. “Shareholders will fruitfully benefit as compared to the present position of the land,” he said.
 
 The urban development minister was non-committal on the final size of the plots to be developed by the government in the proposed new areas of the town. Considering that all land owners have plots of varying sizes, D’Souza said the government will ask land owners to form groups in order to form bigger plots.
 
 “In order to allow a FAR of 300 to the land owner, the onethird area of land to be given back to them, will have to be above 1,500 sqm in area,” he said. In this case, a plot of land will have to originally admeasure 4,500 sqm to qualify for the scheme. But, what happens to owners with smaller land holdings? “There are people who own smaller land holdings, some even own 50 sqm of land. They will have to form a group with other land owners to form a bigger land area,” he said.
 
 He further said that a ‘Letter of Willingness’ will be obtained from the owners/ tenants/ comunidades/ shareholders of the land in order to proceed with the scheme, adding that land acquistion will be carried out if required.
 
 D’Souza said while this model of development is the first-of-its-kind in Goa, it has been implemented in other parts of India. “The Gujarat government has implemented this model for its Sabaramati Riverfront Development Plan,” he said.
 
 (With inputs from Denver D’Souza)
 
