Ghaziabad: A resident of a prominent group housing society in Mehrauli on NH-24 has lodged a complaint with the police against the maintenance provider after a fire broke out in his flat three days ago and destroyed household items worth  .

 Dinesh Kumar (39), a businessman, claimed that the service provider had installed water sprinklers and a fire   in his flat, for which he pays a maintenance fee of Rs 3,000 per month. However, when the fire broke out, the safety systems did not work.
 
 Kumar lives with wife and two daughters on the ninth floor of one of the towers of the society. He said that on February 19 he had gone with his family to a relative’s place to attend a birthday party. 
 
 “The next day, one of my neighbours informed me that smoke was coming out of my house. I rushed to the place only to find that all the household goods were burnt to ashes. The fire had started due to a short-circuit and sparks in wires in the front room could still be seen,” Kumar said. 
 
 “I complained to the society’s Apartment Owner’s Association and the maintenance service provider about the fire, but both of them brushed aside my complaint,” he further said. 
 
 However, AOA president IC Jindal blamed the maintenance provider and the fire department for the mishap. “The maintenance provider has installed the faulty system in the society which has 1,700 flats. The fire department has issued a no-objection certificate to the building without properly inspecting it. Such incidents are bound to happen,” he said.
 
 When contacted, deputy general manager with the private service provider AK Chaubey refused to comment on the matter.
 
 Fire safety officer Sanjeev Yadav said, “The firm that installed the safety equipment is answerable to the loss. The victim is doing the right thing by lodging a police complaint.”
 
 Circle officer II (city) Atish Kumar said the police would look into the complaint.
 
 The official said the fire department has filed complaints at the chief judicial magistrate’s court against developers of three housing societies in Crossings Republik and one in Rajnanagar Extension this month for their failure to make fire extinguishing system functional despite repeated reminders. “Now the court will take the further step against the defaulters,” he added.
 
 
