GURUGRAM: On the third day of the  , the scenes outside many city schools remained the same with youths assembling around them and shouting answers or throwing chits for students.

 Though the number of policemen at exam centres has been increased, TOI witnessed similar scenes outside Kherki Daula, Sohna, Badshapur, Bhondsi and Garhi-Harsaru government senior secondary schools on Friday. 
 
 At Sohna, miscreants gathered outside the boundary wall of the school where 343 students were sitting for the Class XII Hindi exam. However, the school authorities claimed that the situation was in control. Ritu Chaudhary, block education officer, said, “There is no disturbance today. Students could give the exam in peace.” Policemen stationed at the school, however, said a few youths were throwing chits inside the classrooms. Cops stood on the rooftop and shouted at the troublemakers to go away.
 
 At Kherki Daula, 10-15 people stood outside the school where 266 students were appearing for the exam. Principal   said, “I cannot control miscreants standing outside the school. They were throwing chits but those did not reach students sitting inside classrooms.” The number of policemen in the school has been increased in the past two days but they have not been able to drive away miscreants around the school.
 
 This correspondent also spotted youths on the walls of Badshapur and Bhondsi schools. “Three days ago, the barbed wires on windows were cut to make throwing chits easier,” said the principal of Bhondsi school Ansu Singla, adding the matter had been reported to the police. The Garhi-Harsaru school authorities didn’t allow TOI correspondents inside but people were seen climbing up its boundary walls and reading out aloud from books. 
 
 The board exams are being held in 71 centres across the district. District education officer Premlata Yadav said, “I am doing my best to ensure that cheating does not take place. Schools have been warned.” Chaudhary also claimed that she had warned school authorities of strict action if any student was caught cheating. 
 
 When asked about mass cheating at exam centres, deputy commissioner   said, “The police deployment has been increased at sensitive centres. Superintendents and invigilators have been relieved from duty or transferred wherever cases of cheating were detected by flying squads. The administration is committed to curbing the menace of cheating and requests the cooperation of teachers.” 
 
 
