Nagpur: Though all panellists felt the society took their views seriously, some said that gender bias and parents’ know-it-all attitude still present formidable barrier to their dreams and aspirations.

 Asked if they felt special being children of millennium, the panellists coyly reaffirmed their tryst with destiny. Niyati Paul, a hotel management student of LAD College, said that her generation was born for bringing about a change. “I’m lucky to have been born at a time when technology was just catching up. My generation may be the last one to know the pleasure of personal interactions,” Niyati said.
 
 G Sharath Chandra, BBA student of Tirpude Institute of Management Education, said, “Our generation must innovate. We also bear the burden of mistakes of earlier generations.”
 
 Agreeing with Sharath, Rishika Pandey, another BBA student from Tirpude, and Ayesha Ahmed, a BCom student from Hislop College, said that their generation is under pressure to change the social norms.
 
 Most of the panellists felt the country’s future was bright but they also cautioned against politicization of religion and caste.
 
 Niyati and Yash Acharya, BBA student of Tirpude Institute, said today’s youngsters represent a divided generation and our politicians need to rise above the vote-bank politics. “India is a beautiful country with diverse cultures. But, today religion is being used to divide people, ” Niyati said.
 
 Sharath felt that we cannot just blame religion for every wrong happening in the country. “Some of the people still have a regressive mindset and we cannot lose faith in the political system,” he said.
 
 Taking up the issue of reservation, Central India College of Law student Abhilasha Wanmali said the provision was unfair and admission to colleges should be based on merit.
 
 Rishika, Apeksha Kothe, BSc student of Mohota College, and Hritik Kukreja, civil engineering student from Anjuman Polytechnic College, said that reservations should be based on financial condition and not on caste. “Today’s youth does not believe in caste,” Yash said.
 
 The panellists said
 
 corruption, unemployment, education and regressive practices like dowry and honour killing topped the list of challenges faced by society and the country at large.
 
 The state of education too is not encouraging, the panellists felt. Ayesha said, “Our generation does not enjoy the support of quality education.”
 
 Mohd Tahauddin, a student of Ambedkar College of Law, added that the quality of education in rural parts of the country is alarming.
 
 Agreeing with Ayesha and Mohd, Rishika said, “The best colleges are concentrated in the metro cities while students like us are left to fend for themselves.” Ayesha added that most of the courses are not skill-oriented and only focus on theory.
 
 Yash and Mohd felt that parents’s attitude towards career choice of their children is changing slowly but the society still looks down on those who try to chart different path.
 
 “Engineering and medicine are still the most preferred career choices,” Mohd said. Yash added, “I failed the medical entrance twice and then decided to take up BBA. Though my parents support me now, they expected I would become a doctor.”
 
 Rishika said that if one opts for humanities after Std X, people assume that it was because the student wasn’t
 
 competent enough for science and commerce. The young women on the panel also felt that they have to perform better than their counterparts in order to break away from the stereotypes.
 
 Differing with their views, Sharath said men are burdened with the responsibility to succeed as society still views men as the breadwinner of the family. “Men have to opt for traditional careers due to social pressure. I want to become a singer but I know it is not possible,” he said.
 
 When majority of the panellists countered Sharath’s claims, he said, “Why are men hounded when they talk about discrimination?”
 
 Taking up the issue of corruption, Mohd said the youth needs to check its deteriorating moral compass and try to go back to the roots. “Only then we can contain corruption,” he added. Panellists also expressed concerns over the waning freedom of press.
 
 The young panellists termed climate change as another major issue for the current generation. “Our elected representatives should create awareness about climate change and use of renewable resources of energy,” Hritik said. Yash added, “We must recognize global warming as a real problem and try to find a balance between development and environment.”
 
 On the brighter side, the youngsters felt that the digital age has opened a window of opportunities for them. “Advancement in technology is changing many things. Innovations like electric cars will surely help preserve the nature,” Yash said.
 
 Niyati added that today we can access any information due to mobile phones and high-speed internet.
 
 
