CHANDIGARH: The state information commission (SIC)   has asked the the additional chief secretary ( ), school education department, Haryana, to ensure implementation of Supreme Court guidelines regarding bare minimum safety measures in schools in the state.

 State information commissioner   passed these orders under Section 25(5) of the RTI Act after finding that there was no mechanism in the state to ensure the compliance of 2009 judgment passed by the apex court regarding safety of children in schools.
 
 Atri has also recommended an inquiry under Section 20(2) of the RTI Act to the ACS to fix responsibility of all concerned for not implementing the state policy on safety norms at headquarter and district levels till date and take suitable action as per the provisions of service rules.
 
 “Disciplinary action should be taken against the erring officials under relevant service rules and intimation in this regard along with the action taken report should be sent to the Commission at the earliest, preferably within two months,” Atri has observed in its orders released on Monday.
 
 The commission has passed these orders while hearing an appeal filed by R P  , a resident of Faridabad district, who had approached the commission after he was denied of information by the district administration Gurugram.
 
 In this case, Sharma had approached the SIC after he was not provided some information related to steps taken by the district administration regarding children of safety. During the hearing of the case on February 23, a reply was filed by district administration   in which the commission found that the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court (SC) regarding safe environment in schools has not been implemented in the entire state and there is no mechanism to look into this aspect.
 
 “The commission is shocked to observe that despite categorical orders from the SC, the state policy on safety measures of 25 lakh children in Haryana is totally ignored by all the authorities. It is clear from non-availability of any inspection records that nothing has been done to implement the policy. On such a sensitive issue, the commission is constrained to observe that the policy is nobody’s child till date. This is not merely carelessness but inhuman approach of the officers /officials and the same deserves the highest condemnation,” observed the commission.
 
 With these observations and directions, the SIC has disposed of the matter. The commission has also dropped the penal proceedings against the city magistrate Gururgam, which had failed to respond the SIC earlier in this case.
 
 
