KOLKATA: The week that began with three persons being killed in road accidents last Sunday, and another four on Monday, continued its fatal streak on Wednesday as well with two casualties. Five persons were also injured.

 1 DEAD, NICCO PARK, 7AM
 
 Two software engineers Amarnath Sharma and Sudama Jaiswal were riding a bike on their way to office in Sector V. They were about to take a U-turn from a cut opposite the   camp on Salt Lake Bypass when they hit the rear portion of an Army school bus ahead of them. While Jaiswal fell on his left, Sharma came under the wheels of the bus. Both had helmets on. The bus driver and other motorists took Sharma to a private hospital where he was declared dead. “The two were overtaking the bus from the left. The driver couldn’t see them while taking the U-turn,” said an officer.
 
 TOI visited the spot and found the curve dangerous for any one overtaking at high speed. “The curve has been made by occupying a part of the Chingrighata-bound flank while channelizing the east-bound traffic through the service road. Anyone overtaking at high speed, runs the risk of an accident,” said an officer.
 
 1 KILLED, DUM DUM, 3.25PM
 
 A 70-year-old woman was knocked down by a pool car carrying schoolkids near CIT Road. Victim   was taken to RG Kar in the car that hit her, while the children were sent home in another. Sarkar was declared brought dead and the vehicle was seized by cops.
 
 1 HURT, BIDHANNAGAR STN, 9.10AM
 
 Baisakhi Kundu, 35, a resident of   in North 24 Parganas saw 215A bus speeding past while she was on the footbridge. She jumped stairs and ran to catch the bus, missed a step and the rear wheel ran over her leg. A severely bleeding   was taken to   and Hospital. The bus driver managed to flee the spot, but cops seized the vehicle.
 
 TOI found there was no other way for a passenger to get on to a bus without running behind it or standing on the middle of the road as the autos have occupied the lane closest to the bus stand and pavement.
 
 2 HURT, STRAND RD, 7.20AM
 
 Manicktala residents Ankit Dhawan, 21, and Biswajit Pal, 20, were riding towards Kidderpore when a tarpaulin covering a temporary shed for construction workers at the side of the road came flying and blinded Dhawan since his helmet didn’t cover his eyes. Dhawan lost control and rammed into a median divider. Both fell down and suffered multiple injuries.
 
 In the afternoon, TOI found the tarpaulin shed still on the side of the road, with portions flying dangerously on the main road.
 
 2 HURT, APC RD, 9.30AM
 
 Narayan Chandra Pal, 70, and his friend Dhruba Narayan Jha, 62, were trying to cross the busy APC Road against incoming traffic when they were hit by a yellow taxi. Both suffered multiple injuries and were taken to RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. While Pal remained admitted,   was later shifted to a private hospital off EM Bypass.
 
