MUMBAI: With an eye on the   and assembly elections next year, the state government seems inclined to dawdle on the action to be taken against state employees who got the jobs using fake caste certificates.

 Over 11,700 employees fall in the category, as TOI had reported on February, 2018, and the government is in the process of updating the data.
 
 
 There are a few options the state government may consider, said a senior official. One was the strong likelihood of constituting a sub-committee to study the issue, a move that is likely to push any decision on the dismissals well beyond the elections. The state may also consider separating the employees from the reserved category and creating new posts in the open category which will last till the affected employees’ retirement and then get abolished automatically.
 
 “It might be a smart move by the government to avoid controversy that can harm the BJP in Vidarbha as most of the cases are from that region,” said a senior official.
 
 On July 6, 2017, the   ordered that anyone found guilty of using a forged caste certificate for getting education and employment will lose their degree and job as well, irrespective of how long a person has held the job. The advocate general and the law and judiciary department has not been able to provide succor to the government, with both unanimously holding that the   order was unambiguous about dismissal being the punishment for beneficiaries of the fraud.
 
 A delegation of BJP MLAs   and Sudhakar Deshmukh met CM   recently and demanded the formation of the sub-committee. “A proposal may be tabled before the state cabinet next week which would give relief to these employees as any action would be held up till the sub-committee report and its recommendations get submitted to the state,” Vikas Kumbhare told TOI.
 
 He questioned how a caste certificate issued at the level of sub-divisional officer (SDO) can be fake. “These certificates had not been issued by a roadside hawker but an SDO level officer,” said Kumbhare.
 
 Interestingly, the senior officer said the tribal department has strongly objected to any attempt to shield these employees. Tribal development minister Vishnu Savara was not available for comment.
 
 
