In the latest episode of  , Ishita manages to escape
 from the   party just before   spots her. She quickly changes
 and dressesup as Shanoo. Simmi asks Raman who was he dancing with and
 Raman tries his best convincing everyone that Ishita came for the
 party and they were dancing together. Nobody believes him everyone
 says that it is his delusion. However, Param and Simmi get suspicious
 and they decide to keep an eye on Ishita.
 
 Mrs   and everyone else begin the Lohri pooja when suddenly  
 gets upset seeing the bonfire. It reminds her of Nikhil. She then get
 scared as she notices Nikhil at the celebration. She gets a call and
 it is Nikhil. Ruhi starts panicking and Shanoo notices all this. Ruhi
 runs towards her room and locks herself. Shanoo rushes behind her and
 asks her to open the door. Ruhi initially refuses but later open the
 door of her room. Shanoo then calms her down and puts Ruhi to sleep
 who is very scared because of Nikhil.
 
 Param meets Nikhil and questions him as to why he dared to come here.
 He tells him that he can get into a risk if someone sees him and what
 if Ruhi tells about it to someone. Nikhil says Ruhi is scared of him
 and will never share about him to anyone. At night, Raman is seen
 confused if he has really seen Ishita or it is just his illusion. Just
 then Shanoo walks in and Raman justifies that Ishita had really come.
 
 He holds her hand to show her how he was dancing with her. When Raman
 touches her hand he feels the touch very familiar. Ishita thinks that
 it is the perfect time to discuss about Ruhi to Raman. However, Mrs
 Bhalla walks in and notices them holding hands. Mrs Bhalla and Simmi
 create a scene but Raman explains them that he was enacting the dance
 that he performed with Ishita.
 
 Shanno drags Simmi into her room to tell her something very important.
 Shanno makes an excuse to Simmi that the reason why held Raman’s hand
 was to check if someone has done any black magic on him.
 
 She cooks up a story to Simmi that Ishita has practised black magic on
 Raman to control him.
 
 She tells her that it is a very common thing and things like these
 keel happening in her village. Simmi believes Shanno’s black magic
 story. Shanoo tells Simmi that in order to get rid of the black magic,
 Simmi needs to drink bitter and spicy concoctions. Shanoo tortures her
 and to ward of evil she hits Simmi’s chair with footwear. Simmi runs
 away and Ishita thinks to herself that she will any how make Simmi
 confess about the pills that she has been giving to Raman. She will
 teach her a lesson for all the troubles that Simmi has given to her
 kids and her.
