One is only six years old. Others are bit older. But all of them showed incredible courage in the face of adversity or danger, some of whom even losing their own lives while saving others. Like every year, this year, too, 18 children from different states across the country have been selected for the  . Fifteen children will be given the awards by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while three of the awards will be given posthumously.   caught up with some of them on their tour to Gurgaon on Sunday when they were hosted at an entertainment hub. Their acts were as diverse as their backgrounds.

 
 
 
 
 Mamata is the youngest of the lot and probably the bravest. In April 2017, she and her seven-year-old sister went out to relieve themselves near a pond. It was then that a crocodile from the pond held the little girl by the hand. This little wonder girl instantly held her sister’s other hand and pulled her to the ground, forcing the crocodile to retreat. Mamata then dragged her sister to her mother. When asked if she was scared at all, she was prompt to say “no” in Odia.
 
 
 
 
 
 Laxmi was suffering from tuberculosis when she had her meeting with three miscreants back in August 2016. The three men beat up her friend and took her away on a motorcycle to an obscure place in a rape attempt. Laxmi was unwell, but she managed to run away. “I had trouble running since I had TB but I managed to reach the nearest police station and inform the cops who caught three of them later that day. All the three men are in jail now,” said Yadav. When asked about her state of mind during those few hours, Yadav said fear did not cross her mind even once.
 
 
  
 
 
  Nazia has also been awarded the Rani Lakshmi Bai Award by former UP chief minister Akhilesh Yadav. A couple of years back, she saved a girl from being kidnapped in her neighbourhood and after being conferred with the state honours, people in her neighbourhood looked up to her for help to get rid of the illegal activities. She approached the police hoping for some help but no one took her seriously. Eventually she used a phone to shoot the videos of drug dealing and gambling happening in the area and tweeted to Akhilesh Yadav. Eventually the government acted and now there is always a cop manning her neighbourhood. “I faced a lot of harassment. They even tried throwing acid on me but I did not give up,” said Nazia. She aspires to become an IAS officer.
 
 
 
 
 
  Pankaj is a typical mountain boy and is not a stranger to man-animal conflicts. However, in the summer of 2016, he was sleeping next to his mother in the open when he heard a sound. Soon, he realised his mother was caught by a tiger. Pankaj quickly picked up the sticks and stones lying next to him and started beating up the animal. Eventually the villagers gathered and the tiger fled. “It was intense love for my mother that enabled me to save her,” said Pankaj, who wants to join the armed forces when he grows up.
 
 
 
 
 
  He saved the lives of three women. Pankaj was hanging out by the river in his hometown Keonjhar, Odisha, in 2017 when he saw that these women were drowning in the river. Being adept at swimming and brave at heart, he jumped into the river to save the women without thinking about his own life. He managed to save all the three women successfully. When asked about his future plans, he said, “I want to become a police officer when I grow up and save my people.”
 
 
 
 
 
  This teenager was out fishing with his father in August 2016. Suddenly he heard his father screaming after being attacked by a wild bear. Even though he did not have any weapons on him, he managed to shoo the wild bear away with whatever he could gather. “My father had been bit on his head and was in pain. At that moment I could only think of helping him and hence I wasn’t scared much,” said Zonuntulanga. He hails from Sialhau village in Mizoram’s Serchhip district.
 
 
 
 
 
  Karnabeer was on his way back home from school in September 2016. While crossing a fragile rickety bridge, the bus fell into the river. Singh being the eldest one on the bus took the onus on himself to save the kids. He broke the emergency window of the bus and rescued 15 kids who would have otherwise drowned into the river. “There were class one and class two kids on the bus and I could not think of anything but saving them even though I was myself hurt in the process,” said Karanbeer.
 
 
 
 
 
  Samridhi was alone at home in July 2016 when someone knocked on her door asking for the maid. When she replied saying that the maid was gone, the man insisted on a glass of water. By that time, she grew suspicious and started asking questions. The man then took out a knife but she held the knife in her left hand and pushed the man away with her right hand. The man lost the knife and fled but Samridhi got serious injuries on her hand for which she is still being treated. “I am sure that he had come with a purpose of robbing the house or something even worse,” she said.
 
 
