NAGPUR: A talk-cum-interactive session on   Laws Awareness and Issue of Triple Talaq Bill with respect to   in Islam was held by Dr Asma Zehra, a renowned social worker and executive member of All India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) at Ahbab Community Hall, near Jafar Nagar, on Sunday. 

 In order to stand against the interference of personal laws, AIMPLB has decided to stage a women’s rally at 2pm on March 20 in which around 15,000 women from the city are expected to participate. The rally will start from Kasturchand Park and move towards RBI Square. 
 
 “Thousand of women dressed in burqa would symbolize the unity among the people of our community. The rally would be peaceful, non-violent and disciplined with no slogan-shouting. It will be a silent message against the controversial Bill on triple talaq now in the  ,” said Zehra.
 
 The Muslim Women Protection of Rights on Marriage Bill proposed a three-year jail term for a Muslim man who divorces his wife via talaq-e-biddat (instant triple talaq). The Bill has been passed by Lok Sabha. But it is yet to be passed by the Rajya Sabha to become a law. The Supreme Court has set aside instant triple talaq or talaq-e-biddat as a “manifestly arbitrary” practice. 
 
 This initiative is being carried out across the country to awaken crores of Muslims and bring them closer to their faith so that they raise their voice to protect the Shariah, she said.
 
 Zehra charged up the atmosphere as she explained how the concept of ‘talaq’ (divorce) is actually a boon to women. She said, “Islam permits dissolution of marriage and unlike other religions, it does not believe that the relationship between husband and wife will stretch beyond one lifetime up to seven lives. It is a simple contract where the husband agrees to take care of the woman and treat her well. If not, both parties can part ways and can legally marry someone else. The women need not suffer the pain in an unsuccessful marriage.”
 
 Taking potshots at the people demanding changes to Shariah, she said, “Everyone is free to practice own religion and it cannot be forced. If some people are not willing to abide by the Shariah, then they can use their fundamental right as per the Constitution of India, but they cannot demand modifications”.
 
 
