KOLKATA: BJP workers on Thursday took a pitcherful of   water to the Syama Prasad Mookerjee’s vandalised statue to “purify” it. Though the cops prevented them from reaching the statue site, the politicians’ aborted act prompted environmentalists and Calcutta’s citizens to focus on the state of the river in the city.

 Collected from the muddy shores of   and Cossipore, the contents of the pitcher must have been infested with harmful bacteria, a liberal dose of oil and grease and lacking in dissolved oxygen, pointed out environmentalists acquainted with the pollution status of the river. The party workers also carried honey, milk and gaumutra (cow urine).
 
 As per readings taken by NGO SAFE last December, water samples collected from the Cossipore ghat had a coliform organism count of 1741 MPN which is more than three times the permissible limit of 500 MPN. The water was also laden with oil and grease which clocks an average of 4.9 mg/litre at Cossipore. The reading is well within the permissible limit of 10 mg/litre but still enough to cause damage. Dissolved oxygen count, as per the SAFE test, stood at 4.8 mg/litre which is below the desired level of 5.
 
 “As a green activist, I wish steps had been taken to purify the Hooghly water first. It’s indeed an irony that we don’t even have access to clean water for a purification exercise,” said Sudipta Bhattacharya, an environmental researcher associated with SAFE. While lack of dissolved oxygen makes the water unsuitable for marine life, presence of coliform can lead to skin diseases. It also indicates that the water is contaminated with feces or sewage water which can cause severe diarrhoea. Green activists said that the fact that the Hooghly water at Cossipore had three times the permissible limit of coliform was indeed alarming. “Last month, we had a diarrhoea epidemic in parts of the city. What is alarming is that the Hooghly water continues to be a potential diarrhoea trigger but we see no effort to cleanse the river,” said a senior environmentalist.
 
 Oil and grease — released liberally into the Hooghly every year during immersions and through industrial discharge — reduces oxygen count of water and makes it unsuitable for marine life. It also affects the quality of aquatic flora and fauna irreversibly. There is hardly any difference between the Hooghly water and any effluent channel, felt green activist  .
 
 “We were asked to get cow’s milk and party workers contacted milk vendors on Wednesday. Everyone was asked to carry a pot of milk and a can of Hooghly water,” said  , a north Kolkata BJP worker. Pandey, who was arrested at Rashbehari Avenue said party workers were aware that police would try to stop them. “So they got divided into smaller groups and took different routes to reach the venue. Most of them had carried a plastic can or a bottle to collect water from ghats,” he added.
 
