HYDERABAD:   encashed on the middle-order frailties of   during a comfortable five-wicket win which helped them book the all-important berth in the playoffs on Saturday night.

 
 
 
 Kane Williamson’s decision to bat first seemed a good one as Shikhar Dhawan and his new partner Shreevats Goswami, who replaced Alex Hales, put on 79, their best opening stand for the season. However, once Dhawan fell with the score reading 141 in the 16th over, things went from bad to worse for the hosts.
 
 
 
 Wickets began to fall in a heap as the middle-order failed to build on the solid foundation. The Sunrisers lost six wickets for the addition of only 31 to total of 172/9. Prasidh Krishna (4/30), who bowled the final over, conceded just a four while claiming three wickets. Bhuvneshwar Kumar was run out off the last ball. 
 
 During the chase, the Knight Riders took up the challenge and came out all guns blazing. Chris Lynn and Sunil Narine (29) added 52 in 3.4 overs before the latter was sent back by Shakib Al Hasan. Lynn and Robin Uthappa kept the run-rate up going, adding 67 for the second wicket before an acrobatic catch by Manish Pandey in the deep ended the Australian’s innings. Lynn scored 55 off 43 balls with four fours and three sixes.
 
 Knight Riders still needed 54 and the Sunrisers, who sensed a chance to come back, started to apply the choke. However, Uthappa (45) and skipper Dinesh Karthik (26*) consigned the hosts to their third consecutive loss as the Knight Riders won with five wickets and two balls remaining.
 
 Earlier, the hosts survived an early hiccup when Goswami was given out but SRH reviewed the decision and won a reprieve. Thereafter, there was no looking back as Goswami, who was on one at that time, went on to add 34 more before falling to leggie Kuldeep Yadav.
 
 In strode Williamson, who was on a hot streak, and literally tore into the KKR attack. The skipper, who looked in a tearing hurry, hit three sixes and a four during his 17-ball 36, which helped him grab the Orange Cap from KL Rahul. Williamson’s tally stands at 661, while Rahul is at 652.
 
 Dhawan, in the meantime, kept the scoreboard moving in his own characteristic style. The left-hander stuck his fourth half-century of the season before falling at 50 (39b; 4x4, 1x6).
 
 Dhawan’s exit, however, exposed the limitations of the middle-order. One of the biggest drawbacks of the Sunrisers has been the inability of the middle order to come good when needed the most. Barring Manish Pandey (25), the others failed to fire as the Knight Riders applied the brakes.
 
