BENGALURU: The dumping of millions of tonnes of unprocessed waste in Mavallipura, north Bengaluru, without adhering to environmental safety norms and standards, has adversely impacted the quality of water from various streams entering Arkavathy river and Thippagondanahalli reservoir, says a survey of villages on the city’s outskirts, where landfills and waste processing units are located.

 Waterbodies in Kormanakunte, Mavallipura, Shivakote and   have been severely impacted, says the survey, conducted by Environmental Support Group from 2012 to 2017. A copy of the study — ‘A Review of Health and Environmental Implications of Bengaluru’s Solid Waste Landfills, Waste Processing Sites and Dumping Grounds’ — was recently submitted to the Karnataka HC.
 
 
 
 
 The survey found the values of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) — a water-quality index to assess the effect of discharged wastewater on the receiving environment — were much higher than what’s been prescribed. A lower BOD is an indicator of good-quality water; excessive BOD leads to lakes’ death.
 
 The continuous contamination violatesthe2003 notification of the department for ecology and environment, which regulates against pollution of the watershed of TG Halli reservoir and Arkavathy river tributaries.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 The report suggested that bio-mining of unprocessed legacy waste must be undertaken at Mavallipura.
 
 “This technique of cleaning up areas dumped with solidwastewas reaffirmedin addressing problems of garbage accumulatedover the years at   and other landfills too,” it said.
 
 According to Leo Saldanha, founder of ESG, BBMP and the government must find necessary resources to bio-mine waste dumped for nearly two decades in the two landfills of Mavallipura, as directed by the high court.
 
 “The encroached grazing pastures, forest land and lakes must be decontaminated, as they form a critical component of the T G Halli watershed, so that the population of this metropolis is not perpetually contaminated by its own waste,” Saldanha said.
 
 
 
 
 Mavallipura and surrounding villages were known for vegetable cultivation. Muniraju R, a gram panchayat member, recalls how trucks started rolling into their neighbourhood in early 2000, changing the villagers’ lives forever.
 
 “We first protested against the BBMP, and nothing much happened. We filed a PIL in the high court and the case is on. We have been using water purifiers for drinking and depend on tanker supplies too, as ground water is affected,” he said.
 
 
  
 
 
 
