Renowned filmmaker   is currently in Mumbai to promote the cause of filmmaking on celluloid. On Friday, he was hosted by Viacom18 and the   (FHF) to celebrate, encourage and save the art of filmmaking on celluloid. 
The director-screenwriter-producer was accompanied by award-winning visual artist Tacita Dean for the fourth edition of the Reframing the Future of Film initiative.
 The evening was attended by several luminaries of Indian cinema, including Kamal Haasan, AR Rahman, Huma Qureshi, Anurag Kashyap, Siddharth Roy Kapur, Rajkumar Hirani, Shyam Benegal, Santosh Sivan, Govind Nihalani, Ashish Bhasin, Vikram Sakhuja and Censor Board chief Prasoon Joshi.
 
 
  
 
 Viacom18 has been supporting film preservation and restoration initiatives in the Indian subcontinent for the past four years. Host for the evening, Sudhanshu Vats, Group CEO, Viacom18, said, “Films in India have traditionally been shot on celluloid, an art that is fast being replaced by digital filming.   Nolan is one of the world’s most eminent filmmakers who still shoots on film and is a strong proponent of saving celluloid filming. As one of India’s youngest media and entertainment company, we understand the importance of saving cinema in every medium, be it digital or analogue (celluloid). Having Christopher and Tacita in the city is a great opportunity for raising awareness and I would urge corporations, media, partners and the entertainment industry to support this cause.”
 On his part, Nolan added, “It’s been wonderful meeting so many of you. Here’s to learning more from you guys, to looking forward to events over the next couple of days, and learning more about the amazing film culture that exists in India.”
 Shivendra Singh Dungarpur, award-winning filmmaker, archivist, restorer and founder director of FHF, said, “Partnering with stalwarts of filmmaking such as Christopher Nolan and Tacita Dean brings about awareness and attention that is most lacking in the cause of film preservation and restoration. Most of our cinematic heritage is in celluloid and therefore, its preservation will help not only save movies, but also filmmaking on film.”
 
