Mohali: Close on the heels of collapse of a three-storied   that grabbed headlines, Zirakpur Municipal Council has now issued a public notice warning residents and prospective flat buyers to carefully check the authenticity of completion and occupancy certificates of housing projects. The residents have questioned civic body’s decision stating that the authorities are shunning away their responsibilities by transferring the onus of checking documents on them.

 Zirakpur Municipal Council in the public notice mentioned that buyers should verify the documents like occupancy certificate, completion certificate and No Objection Certificate (NOC) from all the concerned departments before taking the possession from the builder. If an individual fails to corroborate the documents then the MC shall not bear the responsibility.
 
 The MC also stated that if builder gives possession without taking occupancy certificate or completion certificate, he will be taken to the court. The builder also must provide all facilities mentioned by him in the property plan .
 
 Manoj Das, general secretary of the Confederation of Resident Welfare Association, Zirakpur North, said, “The notice is intended to shun away from the responsibilities. This is outrageous and we will raise our voices against the move. Now, authorities are trying to put the burden on the shoulders of flat owners.”
 
 He questioned that why MC and Tehsil who are undertaking the Registry of Conveyance Deed for the flats are not being held liable as they charge exorbitant amount for the execution of Conveyance Deed.
 
 “The three-storied building comprising of 12 flats was on the verge of completion and still the MC officials had no clue about it,” he added.
 
 Annu Chaudhary, 39, a resident of Savitry Greens 2 in Zirakpur, said, “I have purchased flat for the first time and I didn't know anything about occupation or completion certificate and about 10 other NOCs that are required to be obtained from builder. I didn’t see any such information displayed at registrar’s office and neither did I require it at the time of registry. How is it possible that the officials get away even after not fulfilling their responsibilities?”
 
 “The MC should have a system in place wherein the builder is supposed to deposit all the documents with registrar’s office and MC office. The entire burden is now strewn on flat-owners,” she said.
 
 Girish, 40, a resident of Sushma Greet Vista in Zirakpur said, “The MC should follow a rule of not registering the flat until the occupation certificate is issued rather than warning the residents of the same.”
 
 
