CHANDIGARH: A district consumer disputes redressal forum here has directed   to pay Rs 50,000 compensation and Rs 10,000 litigation cost for failing to deliver the luggage of a traveller at  . The company was also directed to pay Rs 16,000 to the complainant on account of damaging his luggage and loss of articles.

 The complainant,   (62), a resident of sector 15  , told forum that on January 15, 2016 when she reached Chandigarh Airport (after boarding her Jet Airways flight from Hyderabad, which was via Delhi) she failed to find her luggage, which comprised two suit cases, even after waiting for long. 
 
 Eventually, she decided to report the matter to Civil Airport, Chandigarh. Following the complaint, she was assured that her luggage would be delivered to her address as soon as it would be will be traced.
 
 The complainant said that she received her suit cases on January 27, 2016. “The items were in damaged condition and the articles lying inside the suit cases were also missing,” the complainant said.
 
 Following this, Reshma urged Jet Airways to compensate for the damages and losses, but the company ignored her plea.
 
 The airlines while admitting the factual matrix of the case, stated that after the receipt of property irregularity report (PIR) from the complainant, persistent efforts were made to locate/trace the suit cases and the same were ultimately located at Chennai and then were delivered to the complainant at her address in Panchkula on January 27, 2016.
 
 It was stated that admittedly the luggage of the complainant was delivered within 12 days, thus the complainant is not entitled for any compensation.
 
 The company denied that the luggage of the complainant was delivered in damaged condition. It was also submitted that the complainant never reported/informed them that the suit cases were delivered in damaged condition. The company said that it was found that they were not liable to pay any compensation to the complainant, and this was conveyed to her on December 16, 2016.
 
 Forum after hearing both the sides stated that the worry of the complainant was found to be genuine, especially when despite her best persuasion she could not get her luggage, which included her essentials, for 12 days.
 
 “The jet airway was duty bound to deliver the luggage to the complainant only at Chandigarh Airport on her arrival by Jet Airways Flight, but failed to do so. Jet airways in the present facts and circumstances have committed grave injustice due to their negligence in taking proper care of luggage of the passenger. There is obviously deficiency of service on the part of the company,” the forum held.
 
 
