PUNE: Chaos prevailed at the city airport from late Friday night to Saturday early morning for inordinate delay of two flights because of runway closure in Ahmedabad, while the passengers of another aircraft had to wait in the plane for 30 minutes after touchdown.

 
 The flyers of a   flight from Delhi had to remain seated in the plane for over half-an-hour late on Friday night because of alleged unavailability of bay. A passenger, Siddharth Mehta, wrote on  , “It’s been 30 minutes we have landed at   and we are not being let off the plane. Get your issues sorted once and for all.”
 
 He also wrote that the flight from Delhi was delayed by three hours. But he did not mention the flight number.
 
 SpiceJet, in reply to the passenger on Twitter, wrote, “We always try our best to maintain the departure time as per the schedule. However, at times, due to unavoidable reasons, we face delay.”
 
 Aviation expert Dhairyashil Vandekar said, “People have to sit in the flight after landing because of less number of parking bays at the airport. At that point in time, all the bays must have been occupied. I have said that the growth of Pune airport has not been a controlled one. Hence, these issues will keep on cropping up.”
 
 Cut to the passengers’ long wait for boarding flights at the airport. A GoAir flight set to take off from Pune to Chennai at 11.05pm on Friday took off at 5.05am on Saturday. The flight came to Pune from Ahmedabad around 3.26am instead of 9.20pm.
 
 Sairam Krishnan, a passenger, wrote on Twitter, “Flight number G8 633 is delayed by more than four hours and your ground staff at Pune airport have no clue about when the flight will arrive. Why haven't you cancelled the flight or made alternative arrangements for the passengers?”
 
 A GoAir spokesperson told TOI, “Flight G8 633 [PNQ-MAA (Pune to Chennai)] was delayed because of runway closure at   (Ahmedabad) due to a tyre burst incident of another airline, leading to consequential delay of flights. Passengers were intimated of the same and were taken care of at Pune airport. Inconvenience to passengers is regretted.”
 
 An IndiGo flight (6E673) to Ahmedabad from Pune was also delayed. The flight, supposed to take-off at 11.40pm, departed at 4.20am.
 
 “The schedule of the flight has been changed three times already but the issue at Ahmedabad airport not resolved. All passengers are stuck in Pune airport. Pathetic service,” wrote Rutul Trivediian, a passenger, on Twitter.
 
 IndiGo replied to him that the delay was because of operational reasons due to runway restrictions.
 
 
