Nagpur: Mahavir Janam Kalyanak was celebrated by Jain community in the city with processions, rituals, swami vatsalya and award presentations on Thursday. Marked by scale and grandeur, the celebrations see participation of all sects of Jainism at one place.

 The celebrations begin at least ten days in advance with members of the community performing Bhav Tirth Vandana which involves washing and cleaning of Jain temples. “Prabhat pheris have been taken out from some 27 Jain mandirs located in Itwari for the past ten days,” says Sarita Jain, who heads the women’s wing of   that represents the entire community.
 
 A procession to mark the event started from the Parwarpura temple at Itwari at 7.30am. “Thousands of Jains from the city took part in the procession which had 33 floats which presented various teachings of Jainism and also idols of the 24 teerthankars worshipped by various sects of the community,” informed Piyush Shah an executive member of Jain Seva Mandal. 
 
 The procession taken out over a 0.75km route from the temple to Gandhi Putla, Badkas Chowk, Mahal and back, took 2 hours. “The unique part this year was the ladies band group who played for the entire duration. Also present were our religious gurus, Muni Shri Dr Pranam Sagar and Shri Prashamrati Vijayji from the   temple,” Shah said. 
 
 “The ladies are especially trained for the band and we call professional band masters for this purpose to make them learn,” said Savita Jain. “This year the procession was very grand as more than ten groups of women dressed in colourful clothes performed various dances like lezium and dandiya,” Jain added.
 
 The main event of the day which is abhishek followed by unfurling of the Jain flag was for the first time performed at the park in Mahavir Nagar. Chitnis Park in Mahal used to be the venue previously. “It would get very crowded there,” Shah said, “This year we were able to put a 18,000 sq ft pandal here and a dining area of 6,000sqft at the Mahavir Udyan. Previously we could put up a pandal in 8,000 sq ft area only,” Shah informed. “On Wednesday we had a programme on Garbh Kalyanak and today there was a two hour presentation on   at the Mahavir Udyan,” Shah said.
 
 Ahimsa awards which are presented to members of the community for various achievements were presented in the evening in the presence of Member of Parliament   and other dignitaries.
 
 
