KOHIMA: The influential Kohima Village Council (KVC) has strongly opposed the renaming of   Stadium to Dr T Ao Stadium. The first cabinet meeting of the People's Democratic Alliance (PDA) government on March 8 had decided upon the change in the stadium's name. 

 The KVC has appreciated the government's focus on sports but has said renaming the Indira Gandhi Stadium would amount to disrespecting former Prime Ministers Indira Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who inaugurated the stadium in 2003.
 
 A press release from KVC chairman   and secretary   on Thursday said, "It is indeed encouraging to see that the new government is bringing positive changes in the fields of games and sports by introducing a new sports policy, setting up Dr T   etc. However, the council is of the opinion that changing the name of Indira Gandhi Stadium to Dr T Ao Stadium is not advisable."
 
 The PDA has said sports will be a thrust area of the new government under chief minister Neiphiu Rio. Expressing "delight" that "games and sports are finally getting the recognition and attention they deserve," the KVC said there are ways to honour somebody without dishonouring others. 
 
 The foundation stone of the stadium was laid by former Prime Minister   on October 6, 1987 and its inauguration was done on October 28, 2003 by former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee.
 
 "After all, Late Indira Gandhi was the former Prime Minister of India. The foundation stone and the inauguration stone are laid prominently at the entrance of the gallery for all to see. To destroy these historical monoliths physically is not a wise decision. Therefore, we are surprised that the government has suddenly decided to do away with the legacy of these former Prime Ministers without consultation with the stakeholders, land owners and public leaders," said the KVC release.
 
 Hours after assuming office earlier this month, the government had announced it would honour Talimeren Ao, who had been the captain of the Indian football team at the 1948 London Olympics, by renaming the prominent Indira Gandhi stadium "in memory of the first Naga Olympian to coincide with the centenary year of the sports legend." The KVC said if the government wishes to honour Ao, it should establish a new stadium altogether and not show disrespect to former Prime Ministers. "The government must maintain status quo with regard to Indira Gandhi Stadium," the release said.
 
