LUDHIANA: Seeking to improve healthcare in the villages of his constituency, and help check cardiac problems in villages,   of Dakha Harvinder Singh   — a senior AAP leader — has included an ECG machine as part of his small health mobile module.

 “We started the ‘Tandrust Pind’ (healthy village) project seventh months ago in nine villages of my constituency. As part of the project, we get blood tests of patients done to check haemoglobin and blood sugar levels. Our doctor examines the patients for various diseases, and accordingly, they are given treatment and free medicines. The patient has to pay just Rs 10 for the treatment. We have a mobile health van that would initially go to each of the nine villages twice a week, but now the same small module goes to 19 villages a week,” said HS Phoolka.
 
 “We have a general physician Dr Baldev Singh Chahal (who retired from the army), staff nurse  , lab technician Karamjit Singh, and helper Arashdeep Singh as part of our team. Every day, we provide treatment to more than a 100 villagers. The team tours the villages which don’t have a dispensary,” said Phoolka. He added that the cost of healthcare for each village comes to around Rs 2 lakh a year, which is quite less.
 
 Phoolka said as their volunteer   (28) had died of a heart attack, in his memory they got an ECG machine for the cardiac screening of villagers. The machine was inaugurated by Amritpal’s mother at his village in Talwandi Khurd. Dr Chahal said they cater to the primary health needs of the villagers and those with acute problems and chronic diseases are diagnosed and sent to tertiary care hospitals for treatment. “After examining the patients, we give them medicines for various diseases, including blood pressure, sugar, joint pains, skin diseases, and anaemia. About 90% of the households in these villages have availed the facility,” said the doctor.
 
 Phoolka said the cost of running the small mobile health module is low, as they don’t have to pay infrastructure cost, as they hold such camps in dharamshalas and gurdwaras. He added that they would be spreading the mobile module in other villages of his constituency. The AAP leader further said the programme was undertaken as part of Gyan Sewa Trust, of which he is founder-member.
 
 Meanwhile, villagers are happy with the health system. “My daughter would have gastric issues, and we would normally take her to hospitals where the cost of treatment would be higher. But they have to pay just Rs 10 for treatment in their village. This is a good initiative by MLA HS Phoolka,” said  , a farmer of Talwandi Khurd. 
 
 
