In the latest episode of Nandini,   is determined to take the   from Rajashekar.   takes Ganga to an abandoned palace to protect her. 

 Ganga gains consciousness and she starts worrying about being locked alone in the palace. Muniappa says, there is no one to help Nandini now and hence requests Ganga to bear with the inconvenience caused to her.
 
 Coincidentally Arun and Ganga both are locked in the same palace. While Ganga is screaming alone, Arun hears her voice. But he ignores it assuming it to be his imagination. However, Arun is worried about Ganga’s safety. Nandini calls Muniappa and confirms Ganga’s safety. 
 
  (in Arun’s disguise) asks Ganga to beg and pray for her husband's safe return. Nandini, who is in Ganga's form, smartly pretends like the latter to not get caught.
 
 Nandini is very happy that all her enemies, (Bhairavi, Madhavi, and Janaki, in the form of a spirit) are together at the same palace. Nandini plans to grab the Kalachakram from Bhairavi and   and eliminate everyone later.
 
 Maya (under the influence of  's spirit) is in deep sleep. Maya’s mother tries to wake her up. Maya (Kavitha’s spirit) yells at her mom. Hence, Maya’s mother faints and   also enters.
 
 Moorthy asks Maya to help him in waking up their mother. Therefore, Maya extends her hand, takes a glass of water and gives to Moorthy. He asks his mother to be careful with Maya after this incident.
 
 Maya (Kavitha’s spirit) misunderstands Nandini as Ganga and wants to kill her by pushing her from the balcony. Nandini suspects something to be unusual. Hence, Nandini tricks Maya into moving away and thereby, Maya’s plans fail subsequently.
 
 Madhavi inquires Moorthy and   whether they helped Bhairavi. They give an unclear reply. So, Madhavi evokes a spirit that slaps them.
 
 Meanwhile, Rajashekar enters the room. He gives permission to Madhavi to punish both of them. Moorthy and Dharmaraj get thrashed by the spirit evoked by Madhavi. Finally, Madhavi concludes that Moorthy and Dharmaraj have not helped Bhairavi.
 
