Mumbai: The   suffered a setback after MLC Niranjan Davkhare resigned from the party and membership of the Maharashtra legislative council on Wednesday. 

 Niranjan is all set to join the   on Thursday. Immediately after Niranjan tendered his resignation as MLC, the NCP expelled him for six years. However, the Davkhare family scion said factionalism within the party forced him to quit. 
 
  
  
 
 Niranjan is the son of late NCP veteran Vasant Davkhare, who was close to the party’s founder Sharad Pawar. Davkhare senior had a good rapport with all senior politicians, including late   chief Bal Thackeray. He served as the deputy chairman of the legislative council for nearly 18 years. “It was very painful for me to quit the party that was like another home for me,” Niranjan said.
 
 “I suffered a lot after my father’s death in January due to politicking, which I couldn’t bear. I am joining the BJP without any condition or demand,” he added.
 
 Niranjan alleged that a faction in the NCP tried to sabotage his father’s election to the legislative council in 2016. “Party leaders were aware about all these issues. I had pointed it out then but nothing happened and hence I chose to quit,” he said. 
 
 In 2012, Niranjan was elected to the legislative council in 2012 from the ‘Konkan graduates’ constituency’. He had defeated BJP candidate Sanjay Kelkar. During his stint in the upper House, Davkhare raised various issues related to teachers, students, graduates and other issues related to the education sector. He was the NCP’s rising star and had been the former state president of the party’s youth wing and students’ outfit. 
 
 Speculation is rife that the BJP may field him from the same MLC constituency as it wants to cultivate a base in Konkan. 
 
 “It comes as no surprise that Niranjan has switched loyalties. There was a clear divide in the party at the local level with several Davkhare camp followers, including some corporators, defected to other parties ahead of the Thane Municipal Corporation polls last year,” said an observer from Thane.
 
  “Niranjan is an opportunistic politician. The party has given him a chance to lead the students’ and youth outfits at state level,” said Shivajirao Garje, general secretary of the NCP. 
 
 
