Mysuru: Storage of food at high altitudes has been a persistent problem faced by the Indian armed forces. However, a team of young scientists by   ( ), in association with the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO), has developed the ‘Modular Storage System for Ration’, a silo that can be used to store food and other rations at places situated 10,000 feet above sea level, where sub-zero temperatures are common.

 The model, approved by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), was developed at the Mysuru centre of DFRL by the Young Scientists’ Cluster. The innovation is expected to help the Indian Army in storing food in places sucha s Siachen and  , where the temperature drops to below -40 degrees Celsisus.
 
 The silo was designed by scientists DK Yadav and Neera, under the guidance of senior scientist AD Semwal. “The silo has been developed under the ‘Project Soldiers’ Assist’ system for difficult areas to cater to the needs of the Indian Army in higher altitudes. Storage of food is of utmost concern in areas such as Ladakh, and Siachen, where food freezes at sub-zero temperatures,” said Yadav.
 
 The   are ready to be dispatched to Ladakh, where they will be installed at Nubra Valley. Pointing out that there were three types of silos, Yadav added, “Underground, semi-underground and ground silos can respectively store one, two and three tonnes of food. These silos are camouflaged, rustproof, rodent- and fireproof. They will help our soldiers standing guard at the border.”
 
 Yadav said that the major advantage of the silo was that it could easily be dismantled, and assembled in other locations, depending on where the Army would pitch camp. On the technology used in the silos, he said, “Solar panels have been incorporated to the make the silos self-sufficient and the structure is insulated. Within the silo, we will maintain a temperature of two to eight degrees Celsius. The silo will also display the oxygen level, temperature, humidity and the availability of rations.”
 
 Yadav said that they started work on the silos after learning about the difficulties the Army faced in food storage in extreme conditions. “We consulted Army personnel stationed in Siachen and Ladakh, and incorporated their suggestions within our design,” he added.
 
 The young scientist said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave the group a free hand, and urged them to make a contribution to the Army in any manner possible. “So, we decided to design silos which would ensure that Army personnel guarding our country in hostile terrain would not face any problems in getting food,” Yadav said.
 
 The scientists started work on the silos in 2015, and in a month, their contribution to the Army will be installed in Nubra Valley in Ladakh.
 
 
