HYDERABAD: With an eye on the 2019 elections, the TRS government is hurrying to extend sops to the most backward classes even before the   identifies such communities from the BC list.

 The state government is of the view that it may take a longer time than expected for the   to scientifically study and short list the most backward from among the 113 castes among the Backward Classes. Officials said that the government need not wait for the BC commission report and can go ahead with its welfare schemes for MBCs. "The BC Commissions list of identified MBCs is essential only in case of extending or reclassification in reservations so that it can withstand legal scrutiny. For the purpose of extending financial support and other welfare schemes, the government can go ahead with its own short-listed MBCs," a senior official said.
 
 Consequently, the government is toying with the idea of doling out sops for MBCs after Sankranti festival. Sources said as many as 88 castes have been short-listed by the officials and that they would be provided over 1 lakh loans and other welfare schemes. The TRS government has already allocated 1,000 crore to the  . The twin-objective of the government in hastening to offer sops to 88 castes identified by the government as MBCs is to ensure that the budget spent on their welfare can be reflected in the current fiscal spending and also cover all the beneficiaries in less than a year time in case of an early election in December 2018 itself or as scheduled in the first half of the 2019.
 
 Officials said the file pertaining to the sops for MBCs would be sent to the chief minister for him to take a final decision on the list of MBCs. When contacted,   chairman   sought to caution the TRS government that hastening to dole out pre-election sops to MBCs without the BC Commission scientifically deciding the list of backward castes among the BCs is likely to result in a major unrest among the community.
 
 " There is a scope that people belonging to the remaining castes may feel insecure that it could be a final MBC list and that they may miss the bus of being MBCs. There would also be doubts among 88 MBCs itself that their reservation status may be reclassified among A, B, C and D categories," he said.
 
 
