MADURAI: “The other day, I was having my lunch and swallowed a couple of flies along with the food”, giggles eight-year-old Kavya. It may appear to be a harmless joke of a child, but anyone visiting Siraikadu, a tribal settlement 10 kilometres away from Bodinayakkanur town — where the town’s garbage is dumped — will realise that even ordinary houseflies could be menacing. 

 There are hundreds and hundreds of them swarming from the nearby dumping yard and settling on everything in the tribal settlement. A handful of meal attracts tens of flies and the poor tribal people struggle to save their children from falling ill. Both adults and children suffer frequent attacks of diarrhoea, fever and stomach ailments, especially swollen stomachs in the case of children. 
 
 “There are 49 families here but only 28 houses. We are managing somehow amidst lack of space and this fly menace”, laments  , who staged a public protest for their cause in 2007. These Paliar tribal community members were living uphill of   (Vadkkumalai) forests in the Bodi range. They were brought down by the forest department with assurance that they will be provided alternate livelihood. “We used to live in the natural caves in the hills, feed on forest produce like ham and honey. The forest department brought us down saying that it was not safe there. But I feel very much unsafe and out of place here downhill”, rues K  , a tribal man at 50.
 
 They were resettled some 15 years ago but because of their gullible nature, they were quickly exploited by local farmers, forcing them into bonded labour over free food and clothing. “It was a typical life of a bonded labourer and we thought we had enough of it after one of the girls was raped in the farm. The official who inquired into the incident passed a rude comment, ‘Who will rape such an ugly face’”, recalls Dhanalakshmi.
 
 After they started staging repeated protests, they were shown a piece of land above the dumping yard. “We wanted a place away from this yard, but we had no other choice than putting up huts to move here. After repeated appeals, the government constructed group houses for us”, Dhanalakshmi said.
 
 Even now, there is no electrical connection to their homes other than street lights. There is no drinking water and children have to either walk 10 kilometres to school or pick a share autorickshaw. Almost all children study in the nearby Kallar Reclamation School at Bodi. The men and women work as labourers in nearby farms making Rs 200 to 300 per day.
 
 Bodinayakkanur municipal commissioner M Swaminathan said that the civic body had set up a modern machine to process the garbage into organic manure. “The yard was present even before the land was allotted to tribal people. We have been waiting for a transformer from the electricity board to power the machine and are expecting it in the next two weeks. Once the machine starts functioning, the garbage will be neatly processed and I believe that will put an end to the fly problem”, he said.
 
 However, for people like Kanimuthu born inside the forests, wild animals and the forest environment are more peaceful. “It was mutual understanding of man and animal there, and trust me wild animals are far more predictable than the people here around us”, he said.
 
 
