MOHALI: The autorickshaw driver Tul Bahadur, who was the first to see blood oozing out of the suitcase while the accused Seerat Kaur was allegedly trying to load it in the BMW car, is the key witness in the   case and his failure to appear in court may affect the merits of the case, claimed the prosecution. 

 After Tul Bahadur informed police about what he saw, the cops found Aikom Singh Dhillon’s body packed in a suitcase and booked Seerat Kaur on the charges of murdering Aikom, her husband.
 
 Though Tul Bahadur has been named as one of the key witnesses in the case by the police, his witness could not be recorded in his previous four appearances in the court. If he fails to appear in the court now, this may affect the case merits claimed the prosecution. “His appearance in the court is very important. If he fails to do so, the court will have to rely upon his statement recorded under Section 164 of the code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC),” said Terminder Singh, counsel for the victims.
 
 Tul Bahadur in his statement recorded under section 164 of the code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) claimed that a woman had called him to help her load a suitcase in her car boot, and while trying to help her, Tul Bahadur saw blood dripping from the suitcase. When he asked the woman about the blood oozing out, she fled from the spot following which Tul Bahadur informed police. Now, Tul Bahadur has to ascertain his statement in the court, by appearing personally. Otherwise, his statement, recorded earlier, will be made admissible in the court, said prosecution lawyer.
 
 Tul Bahadur has, now, fled to Nepal, his native place. Police have, also, once made an unsuccessful attempt to get him back to Mohali. However, they claimed that they have initiated the proceedings to get Tul Bahadur in court by writing to ministry of external affairs after the court issued arrest warrants of Tul Bahadur.
 
 Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “We have already written to   seeking permission to get Tul Bahadur from Nepal. Court has also issued directions to make him appear. Once we get the permission, we will send a team to get him to Mohali.” The case hearing is slated for January 30.
 
 The local court had framed charges on July 19, 2017 under sections 302, 120B, 201 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act against 36-year-old Seerat  , who had allegedly shot her husband   (40) dead with .9mm pistol at her residence at   3B1 on the night of March 19, 2017.
 
 
 
 According to the chargesheet,   Singh Dhillon, Aikom and Seerat’s son is also a key witness in the case. Police, in their chargesheet, have mentioned that during a question hour with Gurnawaz, he had told police that on the fatefull night, his mother asked him to go to his room as he was watching TV in the bedroom of his parents. Then, Gurnawaz heard heated arguments first between his parents before a bang sound. Gurnawaz, in the cahrgesheet, also mentioned that he also heard voices of some other people apart from his father and mother, even after Aikom went silent. Later, he also heard someone scaling the walls of the house.
 
 
 
 
 Since, Tul Bahadur’s statement is yet to be recorded, the identification of the BMW and the suitcase remains pending. Howvere, Aikom’s brother Darshan identified both the BMW and the suitcase during the last hearing on January 24, his witness is not as strong as that of Tul Bhahadur, since it was Bahadur, not Darshan, who first saw Seerat attempting to load the suitcase containing Aikom’s body in the BMW. 
 
 
 
 
 The police claimed to have submitted the ballistic report in the court in, which it has been established that the bullet has been fired from the 0.9mm pistol found at the crime spot. SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “We are yet to receive the forensic report about the finger prints on the weapon as well as gun powder report on the hands of the prime accused.” However, the sources in the police department revealed that the forensic report submitted by police established that there are no clear fingerprints on the weapon that, police claimed, was found from the room, where Aikom was shot dead. The pistol is licensed in the name of Seerat Kaur, the victim’s wife and main accused.
 
 
 
 
 The kin of the Aikom Singh Dhillon alleged that police have failed to take the finger prints from the weapon as well as gun powder samples from the hands of Seerat Kaur. This may weaken the case.
 
 
