NAGPUR: A medical student pursuing any specialty is expected to have knowledge of pre-clinical and para-clinical along with the clinical subjects as it forms the foundation of medical sciences. While pre-clinical subjects include physiology, anatomy and biochemistry, para-clinical subjects comprise pharmacology, pathology, forensic medicine, microbiology and   (PSM).

 The Maharashtra State Medical Teachers Association (MSMTA) claims that State’s medical education department is re-routing the teachers from non-clinical subjects towards clinical subjects. Dr Samir  , president of MSMTA’s Nagpur chapter and executive secretary of State MSMTA said, “Nearly a month ago, state recruitment board advertised on all platforms about vacancies of teachers in clinical as well as non-clinical subjects. However, no interviews were held for non-clinical subjects.”
 
 MSMTA has submitted a memorandum in this regard to the dean of the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Dr A Nisawde on Monday. MSMTA members from across the state will meet medical education minister Girish Mahajan on February 7 in Mumbai to appraise him of the issue.
 
 According to international standards and with a view of improving the general quality of education,   has a norm of one medical teacher for every ten students. Thus, for every 200 students (like in GMCH) strength in a college, there is a requirement of 20 teachers. Ideally, each department should have one professor, two associate professors, five to six lecturers and five tutors. However, there is no post for tutors in medical colleges. This way, soon, there may be no teacher left to teach non-clinical subjects.
 
 Golawar further added that due to lack of tutors even for clinical subjects, the teachers of MBBS students have to put in more efforts and teach more students, including students from other medical branches such as dental, nursing, physiology, homeopathy, modern pharmacy, occupational therapy and paramedical technology.
 
 “It is a norm to recruit thirty per cent more teachers than minimum criteria,” he said, adding that MSMTA has objected to this negligence.
 
 “Orissa government has come out with a solution to encourage students to take up non-clinical subjects. It offers a stipend of Rs 18,000 for every student who takes up non-clinical subjects to motivate students to go for teaching as a profession,” said Golawar.
 
 
