JAIPUR: After   of 19   in   received a nod from the   (MoEF), the state government is expecting to get relief from Supreme Court on February 23.

 On November 16, Supreme Court restrained 82 large   mine lease holders in the state from carrying out mining of sand and bajri in the state. Since then, many infrastructure projects and private housing projects are stalled across the state.
 
 The court had restrained all the mining lease/quarry holders from carrying out mining of sand and bajri unless a scientific replenishment study is completed and the matter is fully and dispassionately considered by the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change and an environmental clearance is granted or rejected.
 
 Sources in the department said, “The MoEF has directed the lease holders to demarcate the mining area and identify the level of cross-section. Lease holders have been recommended to carry out mining in the area as per availability of reserve.”
 
 The apex court order followed a special leave petition (SLP) by the sand mine quarry lease holders against an adverse high court order of October 21, 2013. The apex court in an earlier order had stated that river beds need to be protected against illegal mining and that rules need to be framed to regulate mining. It was also made mandatory that all licenses to excavate soft sand from river basins should be given only after a due permission is obtained from ministry of environment and forests.
 
 The ban on sand mining since November has put a brake on the ongoing private housing and government infrastructure projects worth estimated at Rs 20,000 crore. Majority of projects are either on standstill mode or moving at a snail’s pace for the past two months.
 
 The unavailability of bajri for construction has also posed serious problems for thousands of labourers, workers and consumers. Some developers added that nearly 5 lakh labourers, including migrant labourers depend on construction and allied industries.
 
 There is also a dramatic drop in construction activities after the ban and cascading effect real estate related business can be seen. The rates of crusher dust/sand, a substitute of sand has also touch the roof-ceiling , due to ban on mining. “After the ban, rates of crusher sand has increased from Rs 10 to Rs 35 per feet. The operators have increased the prices as demand has increased manifolds.” said Vivek Sharma, a developer.
 
 
