MUMBAI: A garment trader from   was caught using a forged season ticket in the first-class compartment of a   local on Monday. Mihir  , 29, hails from a well-off family with four cars and rarely travels by train, police said. He told the police that he forged the season ticket (railway pass) for fun. 

 On Monday, ticket checker Shashank   got into aChurchgate-bound fast local at Andheri and began asking first-class commuters to produce their tickets. When he checked Shah’s pass, Shrivastav sensed something amiss. “The pass was booked from   to CSMT and Borivli to Churchgate (dual line) for the period of one year from June 8, 2017 to June 7, 2018. But there seemed to be some alterations on the pass,” said an official from Bandra Government Railway Police. 
 
 Shrivastav asked Shah to get off at Bandra station so he could inspect the pass closely. The pass was laminated. Shrivastav tore off the lamination with a razor blade. He was surprised to find two passes pasted over each other. He separated the two and informed the GRP as it appeared to be a case of forgery. “Shah had scanned on the computer a second-class railway pass belonging to someone else. He made some modifications to it such as changing second-class to first-class etc. He then took a printout of the forged pass and pasted it over the genuine one. There is a railway identity card that every passenger is supposed to carry along with the pass. 
 
  
  
 Shah had pasted his photo over someone else’s identity card and manually added his name to the ID card. He then laminated the pass,” said a GRP official. The police quizzed Shah as to whether he was a frequent train traveller. He replied that his family owned four cars and he would travel by train only at times. The police will probe as to how long he had been using the forged pass. 
 
 Shah has been booked under Sections 467 (forgery of security, will etc) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of IPC. If guilty under Section 467, he faces a prison term of up to 10 years and fine. Shah was produced before a railway court and remanded in police custody till January 12. “Srivastav’s name has been recommended for an award,” said WR chief PRO Ravinder Bhakar.
