SHIMLA: With   witnessing less   of power in summers, the state government is worried as it would not only cause huge revenue losses to the exchequer, but also create power crisis in the state. With rains and snow in higher reaches, less discharge of water is taking place in rivers that is directly affecting power generation. State power minister Anil Sharma said electricity generation has not picked up even in the month of May.

 In winters, missing rain had affected power generation while now prolonged cold spell in the higher reaches with frequent rain and snow is affecting melting of glaciers due to which very less discharge of water is being witnessed in the rivers. “Power generation failed to pick even with the start of summer season. Generally, power generation picks up from April onwards, but this year we are not able to get required generation in May due to prevailing cold conditions in the higher areas,” said Sharma. 
 
 The minister added that government was also providing around 20-22 lakh units power to   seeing current power scenario. He added that selling electricity to other states during summers was biggest source of income for the HP government 
 
 Sharma said at present market price of electricity qwas good as prices have increased but state has failed to reap the benefit as power generation was very low. He added that the state government had tie-ups with other states. While electricity is being supplied to Bihar at the rate of Rs 5.41 per unit and Uttar Pradesh is being supplied electricity at the rate of Rs 4.26 per unit. “We have to give them 450 MW power to these two states. Compared to last year rates are high, but generation has dipped immensely this year,” he added.
 
 Meeting the demand during winters was going to be a challenge as now in monsoon season higher silt level in the rivers would force the major power projects to shut down operation that would further affect the generation.
 
 Himachal Pradesh has the total identified hydro power potential of 27,400 Mega Watt (MW and so far only 10,519 MW has been generated.
 
 
