NEW DELHI: A fresh row erupted on Monday between chief minister   and   with the   rejecting the AAP government’s move to set up a panel of 13 senior advocates to fight its cases. 

 The LG office held last week that the panel, which included names of senior advocates Indira Jaising, Sanjay Hegde, Colin Gonsalves, Anand Grover and  , was invalid.
 
 The LG said the panel set up in November 2017 to fight cases of the Delhi government in the high court and give legal opinion in cases violated the transaction of business rules apart from not having his approval. 
 
 AAP called it an example of vendetta politics against Delhi’s elected government while Kejriwal took on the LG on Twitter. “LG does not have the power to reject any government proposal. Under  , LG can only express his difference of opinion. This rejection is completely illegal, unconstitutional and without jurisdiction. LG should follow the Constitution,” Kejriwal tweeted. 
 
 He added: “All our advisers, the lawyers, CCTV project, doorstep delivery of ration scheme have been rejected. LG sahib, you should also construct something in life, only reject, reject, reject?” 
 
 Saying that the lawyers play a crucial role in defending the government in courts, AAP said that it is an attempt to weaken the elected government in courts.
 
 “The government’s counsel defend the government in the courts. It is an attempt to weaken the elected government in comparison with the private players who oppose the public welfare policies of the government. For example, the private school managements are unhappy with the rolling back of fee while private hospitals are unhappy with the capping on profit. This is an attempt to benefit such private interests over public interest,” said AAP Delhi chief spokesperson  .
 
 “There is a clear pattern in the functioning of the Delhi LG, the Pondicherry LG and governors of BJP-ruled states where attempts are made by the Centre to destabilise the opposition governments,” said  .
 
 He added, “There is a pattern to senior IAS officers approaching courts and challenging the proceedings of Delhi assembly and its committees against them. The LG has not cleared the payments of the lawyers with the aim that there should be no lawyer to represent the Delhi assembly and its committees in the courts.”
 
 Last year the LG had appointed a team of 39 lawyers to represent him in matters related to the government’s services department. 
 
 
