PANAJI: The Lemos family will be appealing against the 500-odd year sentence handed out by a Dubai court to  , promoter of   group. 

 Legal advisor to the Lemoses, advocate Wilbur Menezes, who will travel to Dubai to file the appeal, told TOI that he is confident that Sydney and   will be vindicated.
 
 “Sydney Lemos was running a legitimate forex trading business wherein customers knew the risks involved, in furtherance of which they entered into agreements. At the most, the actions may make out a civil wrong for contractual breach, but by no stretch of imagination and creativity can a criminal wrong be made out. It is unfortunate that a purely civil contractual breach has been given the colour of criminal litigation to meet hidden agendas,” he told TOI.
 
 Valany Lemos holds one of Exential’s relationship managers responsible for Sydney’s conviction, stating that he wanted to set up a forex trading company himself. The relationship manager, she said “conspired with two investors” to “artificially create panic among investors to try and spook Exential’s investor confidence so as to force them to withdraw their invested amounts and close accounts with Exential”.
 
 The relationship manager and his accomplices, she added, filed false complaints in 2016 with the Al Barsha Police concerning trading losses which were “given tremendous coverage and spread all over various social media platforms.” “This resulted in more investors panicking and filing similar criminal complaints. Despite the said complaints being filed, Lemos stayed foot in Dubai and was ready to confront any customer and clarify concerning the false information being spread,” she said, adding that Sydney underestimated the power of investor panic and how much damage the relationship manager and his co-conspirators had done.
 
 Refuting allegations of fleeing Dubai, breaking into the office of the company and signing on Exential’s contracts,   said she returned to Goa for a wedding on January 3, 2016, while Sydney was arrested only on January 16. “The Dubai Economic Department (DED) had already sealed our office and we were using another office space in the same building to meet customers. However, again false and unverified information was spread by the relationship manager of a break in,” she said, adding that she was “in no way connected to the company and was merely an authorized signatory in my husband's absence concerning company contracts”. 
 
 Advocate Menezes said two acquittals Sydney received in January this year, before the 500-year conviction “have vindicated our stand that Sydney and Valany Lemos have not committed any crime”.
 
 
