LUCKNOW: Thakur leaders in the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) appear to be strong claimants for the UP legislative council so far. The election to the 13 vacant council seats will be held on April 26 and lobbying for a berth has already started among aspirants in different political parties, with a good number of leaders shuttling between Lucknow and Delhi.

 Given their strength in the state assembly, it is the BJP which is going to be benefited the most by winning 11seats out of 13, with two going to the Opposition, mainly the Samajwadi Party (SP) and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP).
 
 Since BJP has brightest chances of a major haul, likely candidates have already begun approaching their godfathers despite knowing that the final decision rests with the national party president, Amit Shah.
 
 
 BJP insiders have revealed that the party’s priority would be to first of all accommodate  , who is minister of state with independent charge, as his term is expiring on May 5.
 
 The party would also push those who had defected from the SP to join the BJP and vacated their seats for chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the two deputy CMs, Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma. Preference is likely to be given to   and Jaiveer Singh, the two MLCs who had quit their seats and the SP last year. Another MLC, Ashok Bajpai had also resigned from the SP and the council to shift to BJP and has already been accommodated in the  
 
 
 Another strong claimant from the Rajput caste is UP BJP vice-president  , who is learnt to have the blessings of the BJP chief. National president of the SP, Akhilesh Yadav had asked Daya to join his party at a function, but he had declined, choosing to stay with the BJP. Known as the organisation’s man having a strong network cutting across party lines in UP, Daya had played anchor in wooing MLCs from the SP last year at the behest of top party leadership. BJP general secretary, Sunil Bansal is also likely to get a place in the Council.
 
 
 The party is also assessing to send Dalit and OBC leaders in good numbers to win the hearts of the two castes.
 
