KOLKATA: If you have recently received an   traffic police asking you to upload your pollution control certificate on their portal, do not worry. The cops say it is a move aimed at helping you get your pollution certificate renewed on time and help cops integrate the information with the Kolkata Police data.

 
  
 The move has come as a blessing for Lalbazar, which has witnessed over 25% rise in PUC compliance, claimed traffic department sources. The total PUC vehicles record with Kolkata Police now stands at 6.1 lakh even though cops have records of about 4.2 lakh vehicles registered in Kolkata. In other words, PUC details of about 2.1lakh vehicles that were not registered in Kolkata are now available with cops. While the Kolkata Police has issued 2,57, 922 SMSs in the past year, 1,94, 273 motorists got their vehicle PUCs compliant with police requirements.
 
 “Often vehicles that have registered at Beltala and Kasba get their PUCs done from areas adjoining Kolkata proper, like Howrah, Bidhannagar and Barrackpore. We have links with the PUCs in Kolkata who use software provided by us to upload details. But we have no links with pollution checking centres outside the city, which are used by thousands. We want owners to uphold their scanned certificates so that we have ready information that the particular vehicle is pollution compliant,” said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar.
 
 Under the old system, cops sent the SMS alert to motorists about 10 days to a week before their PUC expired. “This allowed them time to get the certificate in time. However, we found that several motorists did not get the certificates renewed merely because they forgot the renewal dates. Compliance figures have risen after this move,” claimed a Lalbazar officer.
 
 Police sources said that linking pollution checking centres outside Kolkata with Kolkata Police might not be a plausible exercise. “There are legal issues which need to be sorted. Till then, asking motorists to upload the scanned certificates is a practical solution as most people now have access to smartphones,” explained an officer.
 
 The PUC compliance move by police, which had essentially begun as a step towards making fine payment for traffic rule violations easy, has helped police collate the contact numbers of around 80% of Kolkata’s drivers. The data, collected independently by sergeants issuing shot challans from their mobile phones and through the pollution checking centres has helped police track down vehicles involved in accidents and crime.
 
 
