AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court on Wednesday quashed the FIR against a   of his five-year-old daughter, who was killed after a   while she was standing with her head protuding out of the sunroof of her father’ SUV in Surat, just before Uttarayan.

 Five-year-old Fatima was travelling with her father Yunus Karodia on December 31, and was standing with her upper body out of the sunroof. She met with the accident and succumbed to her injuries on January 4. Her father was booked for causing her death by negligence, rash driving as well as for offences under the Motor Vehicles Act.
 
 When Karodia approached the HC to quash the charges on the grounds that this was just an unfortunate accident, Justice J B Pardiwala said, “Can destiny be so cruel and that too, with a 5-year-old innocent girl. The mystery of human destiny is that we are fated.”
 
 The HC held that the father could not have been booked for such charges because there is no criminality involved in the case on his part. Running down an effort by police to book the father, the court even commented, “I wonder whether peeping outside the sunroof is an offence under the Motor Vehicles Act.”The HC delved into the safety of people during the kite flying festival. “This unfortunate incident, which took away the life of a 5-year-old innocent girl, should be a lesson for one and all, more particularly, parents.”
 
 The HC rued how the a sunroof that is meant for light and air is used for entertainment in India and people are always at risk by allowing children to peep outside.
 
 The HC observed that during the kite flying festival, excitement and entertainment claims the lives of people and thousands of birds. The authorities have not been able to prevent even 5% of the people in the state from using the banned Chinese manja. On this accident, the HC said, “People should try to understand this very seriously. Schools should educate children in this regard and make them aware of the shortcomings of such dangerous acts. Flying a kite may appear to be very innocent, but there is so much of danger from the sharp thread which holds the kite.”
 
 
