BHOPAL:   of Bhopal are proving a bumpy and tortuous ride for patients taken to hospitals in ambulance. If potholes, some crater like, turn out to be bone-rattling experience for patients,   on city roads, give ambulance drivers jitters. What is worse, they have to constantly think about the alternative route to reach hospital with patient as fast as possible.

 When TOI spoke to ambulance drivers, most of them say they find it hard to reach on time due to potholes or traffic jam on way to Hamidia hospital, AIIMS, BMHRC and Narmada. And the route they dread most and want to avoid are JK Road, Ratibad Road, roads near Bhopal Memorial Hospital, Moti Masjid and Hamidia Road.
 
 They shudder to go to areas like Gandhi Nagar Square, Nishatpura, Karond, Bhanpur, Jinsi Square, Subhash Nagar, Kotra, Moti Masjid, Jehangirabad, Shahjehanabad. Slushy tracks and potholes are unavoidable. For them, it is a test of endurance as one has to navigate vehicle on roads being used by pedestrians in the absence of footpath in areas like Kohe-Fiza, Ashoka Garden and Kolar.
 
 They say there were times when patient got injured or his condition worsened due to delay in reaching hospital because of traffic jam. 
 
 When TOI spoke to some doctors on Sunday, they said the ‘golden hour’ during which a patient can be saved by quick response is wasted due to bad roads and traffic jams. Ambulance drivers often have to give a miss to the quickest way and take an alternative route, which is relatively less bumpy. 
 
 Aslam Khan, an ambulance driver, said, “We get worried when a patient’s condition worsens because of the delay or bumpy ride. Medical attendants, who are first caregivers for critically-ill patients during ambulance ride, find it almost impossible to give IV drips or oxygen masks because of jolts.”
 
 “The space inside the ambulance is less and the unceasing rattling due to potholes often makes patients nauseous.What’s more worrying is that things he needs to do to stabilize patient become terribly difficult. Hand-eye coordination goes haywire in the bone-rattling ride,” he says.
 
 He said, “Due to potholes and PVC breakers, the driver has to slow down and we get late for the hospital.”
 
 Om Prakash, ambulance technician, said, “Road stretches from New Market to Mata Mandir, Karond to DIG Bungalow and Peergate to Kamla Park are terrible. Dug-up and dusty roads are quite a task. The upper layer of bitumen covering road vanished after rains, forcing commuters to cover their faces while travelling on these roads.”
 
 “The situation is equally bad in Lalghati, Jehangirabad, Hamidia Road, LBS Road and Shahjehanabad areas. Roads there are clogged with vehicles or face traffic jams triggered by either BRTS buses or other vehicles during day time,” said Om Prakash. 
 
 They, however, say the scene is different in 74 Bungalows, VIP Road, Airport Road, Arera Colony, Gulmohar, and Char Imli areas. As VIPs and government officials live in these areas, roads are in good shape and the ride is smooth here. The road from Sarojini Naidu College to Char Imli is in perfect shape. Similarly, the road from Durga Petrol Pump to Char Imli and even lanes in the areas where ministers live are quite smooth.
 
 
