KOLKATA: There is a good news for the   corridor in Kolkata. The first rake, comprising six coaches, will start from   in Bengaluru for the city on Saturday. The rakes will be officially handed over to   (KMRCL) director A K Kundu, who reached Bengaluru on Friday with other officials. The coaches will be transported to Kolkata by road and will take 15-20 days to reach the depot in Salt Lake.

 “The coaches weigh around 45 tonnes each and there are designated trailers to transport them. BEML Ltd has transported several coaches for Delhi Metro Rail Corporation by road. It will be a first for Kolkata though as coaches for   are transported by rail from production units. BEML Ltd said the coaches would be reaching Kolkata in 15 days but we believe that the nearly 2,000km journey will take about 20 days, given road congestion and other problems,” a senior KMRCL official said.
 
 
 It would be an amazing sight when the mammoth 106-tyred trailers pass through the city streets. Each rake will comprise two driving motor cars of 21 metres each, two motor cars (MCs) and two trailing cars of 20.8 metres each. All coaches are 2.9 metres wide and 3.9 metres high. According to the official, people in Kolkata will get to see many such trailers on the streets, at night.
  
  
 “BEML Ltd will dispatch the second rake after the first one reaches Kolkata. After that, we hope to get the delivery of one rake every month till we have 5-6 of them to start services for Phase-I between Salt Lake Sector V and Salt Lake Stadium. We plan to launch commercial services along this stretch by the Pujas this year. Before that, the rakes and other infrastructure will undergo rigorous trials,” the official added.
 
 KMRCL also plans to make necessary traffic arrangements with the police for the movement of the trailers along the city streets. Their route through the city has not been fixed yet. The trailers will travel via NH6 towards Kolkata but may not take the Kona Expressway and the Vidyasagar Setu.
 
 “They may be taken to Salt Lake via the Nivedita Setu and Belghoria Expressway. Otherwise, they would have to pass right across the city. When they are close to Kolkata, we will sit with the police and make necessary arrangements. In all probability, they will travel at night through the city when movement of other vehicles can be controlled. Obstructions like height barriers may also have to be temporarily removed,” another KMRCL official said.
 
