AHMEDABAD: As the little cage was opened, timid little eyes stared at open doors of the cage first, sniffed something, peeked and slowly crawled out with their  , flappy ears and gradually wagged tails. That’s how a pack of beagle dogs walked their first few steps of freedom. It is thanks to the efforts of a group of four dog-lovers in the city that 21   that were released from a pharmaceutical testing laboratory and were brought to Ahmedabad on Monday. After necessary medical testing and care, the ‘freagles’ as they’re called will be up for adoption.

  
  
  
  “Freagles of India (FoI) had contacted me when these beagles were to be released. I agreed to make necessary arrangements and then along with other volunteers, we brought them to Ahmedabad. All of them have spent their lives in laboratory-run kennels and have been tested upon. The ones who have been brought-in are aged between 6 and 10 years,” said Richa Singh Choudhuri, active volunteer, west region chapter, FoI, who was one of the four members who helped bring the beagles.
 
 The beagles have currently been kept at a shelter near   and will be under the group’s care for the next couple of weeks. “Most of them look playful but we need to get necessary medical tests done and give them treatment as need be as they have been tested upon. Thankfully, all the dogs have been sterilized by the laboratory authorities and were regularly vaccinated too,” said Richa.
 
 The group is approaching citizens of Ahmedabad through social media. “We’ve already put up the adoption form on Facebook. Those willing to adopt the freagles must be prepared to spend enough time. We as a team will counsel them and support them on how to take care of these dogs for about six months. Those adopting the freagles will also be screened and will be made to sign a legal agreement of adoption,” said one of the members.
 
 Meghna Patel, another member of the group, who also adopted two freagles last year, said, “Adopting freagles and watch them grow is a sheer joy however, it is very different from adopting a regular pedigree dog. They take about 6-7 months to get toilet-trained and it takes patience to get them accustomed to the homely environment. Pet parents must be prepared to spend a little extra time on them.”
 
 
