Vijayawada: From cricket betting to  ,   rackets of various kinds have been quite common both in   city and the rest of Krishna district. City Task Force (CTF) had cracked down on various gambling rackets in the recent past and at the same time Krishna district police too nabbed a few miscreants for indulging in gambling rackets in Gudivada and other villages. 

 However, cops acknowledge that reformative action eludes despite the arrests as gambling still continues to be lucrative for both, organisers and participants. 
 
 Though there are people trying to justify gambling by citing historic references about gambling being part of their culture, city youth are getting tangled in debt traps due the rackets. 
 
 Cops pointed that most of the gambling rackets are conducted by habitual offenders as despite cases being filed, they find the business lucrative enough to take the risk again. Senior police officials expressed concern that most of the accused are easily getting bail.While gambling stands prevalent across the state, Vijayawada, Guntur and Krishna are some of the police units which has been seeing a lot of cases. In Guntur urban police limits around 908 cases were booked back in 2017 which is a 26% increase compared to the previous year. They also cracked down on 16 cricket betting cases in same year in a span of six months. 
 
 With high-profile cases like the arrest of alleged cricket bookie Krishna Singh in Nellore and crackdown of cricket betting racket in Vijayawada, there has been a rise in low-profile activity of major rackets in the city and across the state. 
 
 The difficult aspect of cracking down cricket betting is that most of the rackets are now being conducted online on ball-by-ball basis. Mobile applications and specific websites have been created to run the business.
 
 Recent trends reveal that despite ban, cockfights still continue in the outskirts of Vijayawada and other parts of Krishna district. However, cops did acknowledge that major rackets dealing with crores of rupees have been curtailed to the maximum. 
 
 
