CHANDIGARH: The overflowing   water on the roads and bylanes of Kishangarh village has become a part of the everyday life of the residents here. Sewerage can be spotted in front of the houses and shops, which have turned the entire road into a smelly, slippery stretch. The underground sewage network laid on the arterial road, leading to Kishangarh village from near CGA ( ) and Sukhna Lake, often remains choked. This has become a cause of serious worry for the residents here.

 Speaking to TOI, several residents have complained that the sewerage water spills on the road. The corners of the road, which are lined with houses and shops, are also filled with sewerage water. This has turned the entire spot into a dumpster.
 
 “Since there is no barrier between the boundary walls of the houses and the roads outside, the sewage water reaches our homes too. I have two kids who are below the age of seven. I am worried about their health,” said a resident on the condition of anonymity.
 
 The overflowing sewerage water smells terribly and has made it difficult for the residents to live, stand or walk in the area. If there are potholes on the roads, stagnant water accumulates, which aggravates the situation even further.
 
 “I have been living here for the last 10 years, but this sewer problem has been in existence for more than that. Earlier, the sewer channels were exposed and uncovered. They have been cemented in the last five years, but the problem of gutter water has become prominent within the last three years. The smell is unbearable,” said  , a resident of the locality.
 
 “The problem is that the sewer lines laid here are small and hence are not sufficient to cater to the water discharge from a large settlement like Kishangarh. It gets choked all the time and that is why the water overflows,” said Surinder Singh, a resident of the area.
 
 Many residents have claimed to have submitted complaints with UT administration repeatedly, but no action has been taken in this regard so far. 
 
 “The officials wait till the time the road turns into a river. Then they will come and clean the road. They came and did the same on Friday morning as well. But that is not enough,” said  , a resident of the village. 
 
 
