PANAJI: The capital city was brought to a standstill on Monday as over 3,000 mining-affected people blocked two national highway bridges on the Mandovi for over four hours, strategically cutting off the entry and exit points from Panaji, leaving thousands of commuters and students stranded. 

 Seven persons were injured, including five policemen, when the protest against the closure of mines turned violent and protesters started pelting stones, forcing police to resort to lathicharge to disperse the crowd.
 
 Police arrested 13 persons for blocking the highway and damaging public property, including five state transport buses, a fire brigade vehicle and a police van.
 
 The state government assured the protesters to resolve the   crisis within eight days, including filing a review petition in the   against its February 7 judgment to close the mines, but the protesters refused to accept it and said they would continue their agitation till the mines were reopened.
 
 “We understand your problem and the government is with you. Within eight days, we will solve the mining issue. All MLAs are with you,” cabinet advisory committee member and PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar told the agitators. But the protesters, including women and children, dismissed the appeal to call off their agitation and said the government had failed to find a solution for over a month.
 
 Union minister Nitin Gadkari, who landed late evening in Goa, held a meeting with all   MLAs to find a solution to the mining crisis.
 
 All Goa Truck Owners’ Association president Nilkant Gauns, who led the agitation under the mining dependents’ front banner, said all MLAs should resign as they could not stop police from resorting to lathicharge. “We will continue our agitation till this government is thrown out of office,” he said.
 
 The day started on a peaceful note with protesters gathering at the KTC bus stand around 10am with over 1,000-strong posse of policemen keeping a watch. Despite the prohibitory orders in place till 10.30am, the protest crowd kept on surging. North Goa district collector Nila Mohanan’s appeal to the agitators to move to their designated protest area of Azad Maidan did not have any effect and by 11am they moved towards the Mandovi bridges, blocking both.
 
 With class XII board examination taking place, police stopped the mining dependent vehicles at Mapusa, Amona and St Cruz, on the outskirts of the city. Though the students did not miss their exams, most of them had to wait in their schools after the exams and classes were over till the crowd dispersed at around 3pm.
 
 During the protest, the agitators burnt effigies and raised slogans against the government and started demanding that the three-member cabinet advisory committee consisting of senior ministers Dhavalikar, Vijai Sardesai and Francis D’Souza, in the absence of chief minister Manohar Parrikar, come forward and personally give an assurance to solve the issue.
 
 Dhavalikar, who was the first to arrive, requested the union members to move their protest to Azad Maidan. He also invited a 20-member delegation of the union members to hold talks with him. But the mining dependents heckled Dhavalikar and Sardesai, who soon joined him. Though the mining belt MLAs were missing from the agitation, they joined the ministers with Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral trying to convince the agitators the government’s viewpoint and requesting them to lift the blockade of the bridges.
 
 But the protesters refused to budge and questioned the government on the delay behind moving against the Supreme Court judgment. The Supreme Court in its February 7 judgment suspended all mining operations with effect from March 16 until fresh mining leases and environmental clearances are granted. The protesters have claimed that nearly 30,000 people would be indirectly impacted, while 2,500 core mining employees will lose jobs.
 
 “Mining ban is a social and economic disaster. The agitation is due to lack of clarity, as the industry and its stakeholders were just getting back to work. They thought the worst was behind them, only to be stopped again,” Goa Mine Owners’ Association president Ambar Timblo said.
 
 It was left to Mohanan to clear the new Mandovi bridge by late afternoon and as the protesters tried to converge on the old bridge, they started pelting stones. When superintendent of police Umesh Gaonkar tried to reason with the agitators, they pushed the police officer that led to lathicharge by the police force that included Maharashtra police and Indian Reserve Battalion.
 
 While the protesters threw plastic bottles at Dhavalikar, Cabral, who tried to shield the mining dependents, was hit on his hand during the lathicharge. However, Dhavalikar made it clear that the district collector had not given an order for the lathicharge, but police resorted to it after agitators started pelting stones.
 
 Within 15 minutes of lathicharge, the crowd dispersed and normal traffic towards Panaji city was restored by 3pm.
 
 
