HYDERABAD:   (name changed), a traffic constable under west zone, starts his day at around 6.30am so that he can start his duty by 7.30am. He only prefers idli for breakfast during summer. “I have to stay under the sun and oversee the traffic in this hot weather. I cannot have anything too heavy for breakfast,” says Srinivas.

 Similar is the situation of other traffic cops who slog for over eight hours under the scorching sun with just two packets of buttermilk, cooling specs and a 1.5-litre water bottle provided by the department. The shades constructed for the traffic cops at various junctions are barely of any use as two to three cops have to share it during the daytime.
 
 “Most of the time during the day is a peak hour and from 8am to 11am it becomes really busy,” said K Shiva, a traffic cop at the   junction. He said no cooling vest had been provided to the constables. “We have received a reflective vest for the evening so that motorists can notice us,” he added. Last year, the Hyderabad traffic police brass had issued total 200 cooling jackets to cops to beat the heat. However, 200 vests are not enough, say the traffic cops.
 
 “Each police station has got only five to six such cooling vests. These have been provided to the mobile traffic police on duty who use the bikes for patrolling and attend to emergency cases. There are six such patrolling bikes in each police station as they go around the city in this heat and are provided with the jacket for now,” said  , ACP (traffic), West Zone. Each vest costs around ₹2,000.
 
 “There are days when I get dizzy as I have to stand and work for several hours in one stretch. The cooling vest should also be provided to the junction cops,” said another traffic cop. “The vest is not comfortable. It doesn't stay cool for long, as it is supposed to be,” claimed another.
 
 This year, the department has given orders to suppliers for procurement of nearly 500 such cooling vests. “The vest becomes uncomfortable because the jacket needs to be wetted before wearing,” said  , additional commissioner of police (traffic).
 
