NEW DELHI: Vikram, who was contracted to Vivanta by Taj-Ambassador Hotel as a security help, died in hospital on Tuesday. Last Saturday, a day before he fell unconscious in the sewage treatment plant at the hotel, the 26-year-old had assured his father he would come home to help him buy seeds for their patch of agricultural land in Etawah, UP.

 On Sunday, Vikram responded with alacrity after his wireless crackled with the news of some people falling unconscious in the sewage treatment plant. Both he and the hotel's deputy chief engineer, Gaurav Sukheja, had rushed to the basement without donning safety gear and were felled by the toxic gases. Firemen who entered the room later found it partially filled with sewage water and five men lying unconscious there, among them Vikram. Three of them had froth oozing from their mouths, while two had turned blue after breathing in the   gas.
 
 “Three men were lying on the staircase leading to the room. They must have fallen unconscious after inhaling the mixture of carbon monoxide, sulphur dioxide, ammonia and methane,” said Ved Pal Chhikara, assistant division officer, Delhi Fire Service. The gases present in the room were so strong that they turned the metal objects in the firemen’s gear black.
 
 Man Singh said on Tuesday that his cousin Vikram had been working at the hotel for the past three years. “He was the eldest among his four siblings and sent money to his parents, who are engaged in farming in Saifai village,” said Man Singh as the family waited to collect the young man’s body at Moolchand Hospital. Vikram is survived by two younger brothers and sisters, apart from his parents.
 
 Two plumbers, Ravindra Pal Singh and Nityanand, had entered the room wearing just protective gloves, neither a safety belt nor a mask that are necessary while undertaking such sewer operations. Ravindra, who too died on Tuesday, lived in Ghazipur in east Delhi. 
 
 The medical staff that carried out the autopsy on the plumber confirmed his lungs were filled with toxic gases. Ravindra’s relatives said that he had joined Eco Pollutech, the maintenance company, two years ago after losing his job at a petrol pump. His wife is a cancer patient and the family is in despair since Ravindra was the sole income earner.
 
 Relatives of another plumber, Nityanand, who is in Moolchand Hospital, are worried about his condition. According to his cousin Maheshwar, the 51-year-old employee of the hotel has been staying by himself in Kapashera village for over two decades now. His family lives in Orissa. The medical team at BLK Hospital near Rajendra Nagar informed that the third plumber, Kamdev Patra, continues to be in critical state in the intensive care unit. The condition of Sukheja, who is also in ICU there, is showing signs of stabilising.
 
 
