JAIPUR: Health minister   on Thursday said imposing ban on   products in the state is not feasible. However, health department officials revealed that it is estimated that 136 persons are dying daily in the state due to tobacco computation. 

 
 While celebrating World No Tobacco Day (May 31), Saraf said, "If we impose a ban on tobacco products, there are chances of it being smuggled from neighbouring states. Ban will encourage smuggling. If ban must be imposed, it should be imposed nationally." He said that only one state banning tobacco products will not be able to serve the purpose.
 
  
  
 
 While addressing a gathering of anti-tobacco crusaders at Indira Gandhi Panchayati Raj Sansthan, Saraf said that he was regular user of tobacco products. "When a doctor told me if I continue consuming tobacco, there are chances of cancer. I quit consuming tobacco 20 years ago. Now, I do not consume tobacco anymore," he said.
 
 He said that they have constituted a committee to find out if e-cigarettes contain harmful chemicals to health. "We have given the committee time of 30 days to present its report. Only after that, we will be able to act against it," he said.
 
 However, he pointed out that the per cent of tobacco users in the state has declined over the past few years. Now, 24.7 per cent of people in the state are using tobacco, earlier, the percentage was as high as 32.3.
 
 Besides, national health mission (NHM) mission director (state)   raised the issue of celebrity involved in surrogate advertising of tobacco products. He pointed out that they are icon of the youths, they should encourage youths not to consume tobacco.
 
 According to medical oncologists, lung cancer is the most common among all types of cancers. Dr  , professor (ENT surgery)  , said, "Even smokeless tobacco causes similar ill effects in direct or indirect forms. Apart from causing direct damage to the vessels of our body, it causes significantly increased mortality after the heart attack, in people consuming smokeless tobacco."
 
