GHAZIABAD: Nearly two dozen makeshift shelters set up by tying together pieces of clothes on a bamboo shaft. Underneath sat women and children, some of them as young as five months. This was the scene at   on Wednesday, ravaged by a massive fire the day before.

 Around 250 displaced people sat huddled in several groups till some volunteers arrived on the spot with some food packets. “This is Topu who was born here and since last night he has been crying non-stop. Maybe he is missing his home,” said Salema, who till Tuesday lived with her family of four in one of the huts.
 
 Pointing in the direction where once stood her home, she said, “Since the fire stopped, I visited our burnt house several times in an attempt to find some of my belongings, but in vain.”
 
 Salema works as a domestic help in nearby highrises, while her husband works in a paint factory in Sahibabad.
 
 Volunteers from residents welfare associations (RWAs) arrived at the scene with food packets resulting in chaos as people jostled with each other to lay their hands on the packets. Salema stood rooted in her makeshift shelter. “My husband has gone to look for accommodation nearby. I hope that his employer lends him some money,” said Salema.
 
 Salema was not alone in grief. At a little distance stood Poltu, who looked exhausted. He works in a mall in Indirapuram. “I have not slept for the entire night. All the time, I kept thinking of how to make up for the loss that I have suffered. I even don’t have another pair of clothes now,” said Poltu.
 
 Another domestic help, Afroza, too looked worried about the future of her family. “One family for whom I work as a domestic help, was kind enough to allow my toddler son and daughter spend the night in their house. But I don’t know for how long will this continue. Rebuilding the hutment will require a lot of time and money and we have no savings left,” said Afroza. Children have been hit the most in the tragedy. “I was feeling thirsty and had to go all the way to the village to have a glass of water,” said Debu, a 12-year-old who was wandering aimlessly even as a member of citizen volunteer placed a food packet in his hand.
 
 Officials of district administration visited the spot and took stock of the situation. “We distributed food packets and other essential items and have even offered to shift them to shelter homes,” said additional district magistrate Gyanendra Singh.
 
 The police department, too, pitched in and SP (city)   visited the area and distributed food packets. “In collaboration with citizen volunteers, we arranged about 1,000 food packets and distributed to the displaced. We will continue to provide help for a few more days,” added Tomar.
 
 However, a sense of uncertainty has gripped the victims, who are mostly labourers. “We were expecting some financial help from the administration but we were told that we may not get it as there is no provision for it,” said Jitender, a daily wager.
 
