NEW DELHI: Arvind Kejriwal’s   to former Punjab minister Bikram Singh Majithia, who had accused Delhi’s chief minister of defaming him, evoked a rebuke bordering on the offensive from his party colleague   on Friday. However, Vishwas being the poet that he is achieved his objective without naming  .

 Vishwas’s vociferous opposition to Kejriwal’s style of functioning as AAP’s national convener and CM is not new. Only this time his tweets on Kejriwal’s apology to Majithia betrayed a visceral dislike and were sharply censuring. “Hum kya us shaks par thookein jo khud thook kar chatney mein mahir hai,” Vishwas tweeted, punctuating his demeaning remark with a thumbs down and angry face emoticons, leaving no one uncertain about his contempt for “a person who spits at someone and then licks it off”.
 
 This anger, however, was not limited to Vishwas. While the AAP unit in Punjab was thrown into disarray by Kejriwal’s unexpected apology, the party’s Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh ruled out on Friday a similar act in regard to the two cases lodged against him by Majithia. When asked if this implied that he did not agree with Kejriwal’s decision to say sorry, Singh refused to comment.
 
 Indicating he would not relent, Singh said in Delhi, “The Special Task Force has submitted its report in the high court and it contains the statements of some people who were involved in drug peddling. They have said they deposited money into Majithia’s accounts. His accounts should be seized and he should be arrested,” Singh alleged. TOI could not verify the contents of the STF report. 
 
 Vishwas’s four-line verse was cutting in its bitterness. “Ek baantney mein maahir hain, khud ki jadh kaatney mein maahir hain, hum kya us shaks par thookein jo khud thook kar chaatney mein maahir hain,” the tweet went, expressing his view that he did not even think it worthwhile to   someone who was an expert at self-abasement. 
 
 While the party defended Kejriwal’s apology, Vishwas said on Twitter that he had been “regularly cancelling my shows to attend several court hearings related to the poll campaigns of 2013, ’14 and ’15 without getting legal assistance from the party”. He added that another case was up for hearing on Saturday, and he would carry on the fight.
 
 In another tweet that he posted after the party’s MLAs and activists in Punjab shared their dismay on the social media platform, Vishwas said, “Jisko hum sabney nazariya samjha, usneyhum sab ko bas zariya samjha (We were simply tools for the one we thought was giving us a new perspective)”.
 
 When contacted, AAP spokespersons in Delhi refused any response to these utterances. They stuck to the official statement issued by Delhi chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Thursday that Kejriwal was facing dozens of civil and criminal cases related to defamation and material used in hoardings/posters during election campaigns, among others, and the “decision to amicably sort out all such legal cases is a strategy as devised by the legal team of the party”. Bharadwaj had admitted that contesting court cases was taking “a toll on the already constrained resources of the party and individuals”.
 
 Bhardwaj also claimed that the political cases in Delhi had been put on a fast track, forcing MLAs and ministers to virtually go to courts for the cases on a daily basis in Delhi and other states. “Similar cases are going on in other parts of India such as in UP, Punjab, Assam, Maharashtra, Goa and some remote places. Most of these cases require the personal appearance in the courts,” he said. The AAP leader alleged that the cases were politically motivated, and maintained, “The cases have been foisted on us by political rivals to demotivate us and keep our leadership busy in legal matters.”
 
 
