CHENNAI: Against the backdrop of film artists taking the political plunge and threatening to erode base of traditional parties, the EPS government is planning to give away the annual film awards -- that has been pending since 2009 -- next month at an event. The last such event was held for the year 2008 during the previous DMK regime.

 While Edappadi government announced the awards in July 2017 for the period between 2009 and 2014 for 30 categories, including best actor, best villain, best music director and best stuntman. But the state government could not hold an event due to political turmoil in the state and protests continuing to rage over water disputes. Sources said deputy CM   and senior cabinet colleagues went into a huddle on Wednesday night to finalize the names for 48 “Kalai Vithagar Awards (Veteran awards) named after former CMs, C N Annadurai and M G Ramachandran, actors  ,  ,   and  . An award named after Jayalalithaa is on the cards. “The meeting was to decide on the names of awards for each of those years. Dates have not been decided yet for the event,” said an official.
 
 Even as “internal discussions” are on to hold the event in Kalaivanar Arangam or Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium in Periamet, one section is sceptical about holding the event given the continued protests on the Cauvery issue and opposition railing against governor Banwarilal Purohit. The Cauvery hearing is slated for May 3.
 
 Sources said former CM   had not shown keen interest in the annual event despite representations because of the “deep politics” within the film industry and the large business interests of family members of her rival M Karunanidhi. A former actor herself, with 140 films to her credit, she did not miss an opportunity to organize an event when Indian cinema celebrated its centenary year in 2013. She honoured 59 artistes of the Tamil film industry, including actor Rajinikanth at a grand event organised at the Jawaharlal Nehru indoor stadium in September. A month before she was admitted to Apollo hospitals, Jayalalithaa announced a grand award function to honour film artists and technicians, after DMK MLA Vagai Chandrasekar raked up the issue on the floor of the assembly.
 
 Actor Ponvannan, who is also vice-president of Nadigar Sangam, said the fraternity was more than happy about the announcement of awards itself. “It was to be given away by the former CM herself. We are not complaining about the delay. We will wait,” said the actor, who won best villain award for the film, Vagai Sooda Va in 2011. His wife, Saranya Ponvannan won best character artist award for Kalaivani released in 2010. Noted lyricst, N Muthukumar passed away in August 2016 – a month after the government announced his name for best lyricist award for the years 2012 (multiple films), 2013 (Thangameengal) and 2014 (Saivam).
 
 
