At a time when the city has started feeling the warmth of being selected under the ‘Smart City’ project, it has been witnessing an enormous increase in the population of dogs and litters on its streets, thus putting its residents on the receiving end of the stray dog menace. 

 “How good would be the ‘Smart City’ project for the public, if it ignores the health and safety aspects of the residents,” asked P Mohan Prashanth, a social worker from Kovaipudhur.
 
 While the Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation ( ) has been focusing on the development and technology-oriented aspects, on a larger scale, it has ignored the basic and important facilities that it has to create for the public, he said, as he called the number of stray dogs and litters before his residence. 
 
 The number of stray dogs has increased tremendously in the recent times and till date. The corporation did not do a single scientific survey and do not have any data pertaining to the number of dogs on the streets, he said, thus attributing the increase to the lack of proper system to sterilize the animals.
 
 The CCMC, during 2014, has signed an agreement with two non-governmental organizations (NGOs) –   and People for Animal Unit II – to implement the Animal Birth Control (ABC) project and as per which, the NGOs have been carrying out sterilization and administer anti-rabies vaccines to the stray dogs. 
 
 Of the 100 wards, about 80 wards were allotted to the People for Animal Unit II and the rest was given to the Humane Animal Society and the NGOs need to carry out birth control measures to a total of 30,000 stray dogs and of which, over 20,000 dogs were being sterilized till March, 2017.
 
 The project was put on hold on 80 wards till date as the paper work to renew the contract for People for Animal Unit II, which expired in March 2017, was still pending.
 
 “The corporation officials are to be blamed for the increase in stray population,” said   from People for Animal II, explaining that during the course of one year, two breeding seasons had completed and the population of dogs would have increased beyond imagination. 
 
 While the cost of sterilization per dog amounts to Rs 1,000, the corporation continues to give only Rs 445 per dog which was fixed by the state government during 2001, but the cost was increased to Rs 700 per dog during 2013, which the corporation refuses to acknowledge,   said, while Mini Vasudevan of Humane Animal society said that the due amount was, also, pending. 
 
 It is only with the personal fund and fund from sponsors, the sterilization project was being carried out, they said. This had led to equipment and manpower shortage. 
 
 If only we receive full cooperation from the officials, fund and manpower, stable population of the dogs (i.e., 70% of sterilization process) could be completed within three to four years. 
 
 Considering the present dog population, we believe that not even 10 % of sterilization could be carried out, she said. 
 
 After the recent incident in which 16 dogs were poisoned to death, we have insisted the corporation officials to speed up the paper work, she said, while adding that a meeting was being scheduled between officials and NGOs on Monday. 
 
 According to the corporation, a fund of Rs 1.5 crore was allotted in 2018-19 budget to contain the population of the stray dogs. A dog protection centre would be set up for the maintenance of strays in the city streets in coordination with animal welfare societies in the city. The district has three dog shelters and it has about 400 dogs each. 
 
 
