NEW DELHI: Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the  , on Wednesday informed the Bombay high court that in the case of the alleged fake encounter of   in 2005, no witnesses have so far asked for police protection or complained of facing threats. 

 “No one has asked for protection yet, but if anybody wants it, the CBI will give them protection,” Singh said. His statement comes a day after the court had observed how there had been several witnesses turning hostile during the trial. The trial is underway before a special CBI trial court   in Mumbai. 
 
 Justices Revati Mohite-Dere had on Tuesday observed that it was the duty of the investigating agency to provide protection to its witnesses to ensure they depose without fear. 
 
 “Is it not the CBI’s responsibility to ensure that its witnesses are protected so that they depose against the accused fearlessly?” Her observations came while hearing a clutch of petitions by the agency and Sohrabuddin’s brother Rubabbudin Shaikh challenging the orders of the trial court that had dropped charges against five accused, all police officers, from   and Rajasthan.
 
 The CBI has not challenged the discharge given by the trial court to three accused- senior IPS officers D G Vanzara, Rajkumar Pandian, Dinesh MN-- but has challenged the trial court orders which were in favour of former Gujarat crime branch officer N K Amin and Dalpat Singh, a police officer from Rajasthan. Of the nearly 40 accused in the case, the trial court had, over a year between August 2016 and September 2017, dropped the case against 15, including the now BJP national president Amit Shah, for want of any prosecutable evidence and lack of prior sanction in some cases.
 
 Mahesh Jethmalani counsel for Amin assisted by Pranav Badheka said, “the statements about hostile witnesses is causing prejudice to my client and others as well. ‘’ He said that the sole witness against Amin, Nathubhai Jadeja, a Gujarat police staff, had not turned hostile but “was telling the truth.’’ Jadeja was a driver of the vehicles in which Shaikh and others were allegedly taken by the accused to the encounter spot in November 2005.
 
 The prosecution case against Amin is that he conspired to kill Shaikh, an alleged gangster, and his wife Kausar Bi and their associate Tulsiram Prajapati. Mahesh Jethmalani in his submissions before Justice Mohite-Dere said, “CBI case against Amin was only that he was present at a site where a body was burnt. The CBI has not made clear whose body was being burnt.’’ 
 
 Jethmalani said that Jadeja’s previous statements have always been that he was forced to give a false statement. He made such a statement before the Gujarat magistrate, then before the CBI when it took over the probe and also on affidavit before special CBI judge. Jethmalani said that the special CBI judge Gosavi had also in fact called Jadeja to court to verify on oath his affidavit, before discharging Amin.
 
 Amin’s counsel also said that Jadeja, the witness, had been saying that he was forced by the Gujarat police first and later in 2010 by the CBI to make, before a judicial magistrate, the same statement that he is supposed to have given before the police. A statement before the police has no evidentiary value, he said.
 
 Meanwhile Rubabuddin, challenged the discharge granted to Vanzara, Pandian and Dinesh MN. His counsel advocate Gautam Tiwari began his submissions against Dinesh a police officer from Rajasthan who was discharged on August 1, 2017. Tiwari said that Dinesh is alleged to have travelled from Udaipur to Ahmedabad in the early hours on November 24, 2005 to join a team to commit the encounter of Shaikh. “There was collusion and comaradarie between police officers Vanzara, Pandian and Dinesh, that extended beyond official work.’’ 
 
 He said that “for reasons best known to CBI, it only took call data record of Vanzara and no one else.’’ Merely on CDRs no one can be prosecuted for serious offence the apex court had said. But Tiwari pointed out that there was a “spike in number of calls’’ between Dinesh and Vanzara at the relevant time. Sohrabuddin Shaikh was gunned down on November 26, 2005 and Dinesh was present during the encounter was Tiwari’s submission. Justice Mohite-Dere asked if there was any dispute about his presence in Ahmadebad at the time. Raja Thakare, counsel for Dinesh said that he was there for official visit.
 
 The hearing will continue on Wednesday in HC.
 
 
