NAGPUR: The over 100-year-old, British era office of city police chief at   is set to make way for a six-floor sprawling structure on the 4 acre plot, at a cost of around Rs97 crore. The new building, which will house both CP and SP Rural’s office, will incorporate local architecture in the design and also be one of the most environment-friendly structures in the state.

 On Sunday, chief minister   will perform the groundbreaking ceremony for the ‘Police Bhavan’, at a site within the premises of the current CP office. Efforts are underway to invite all former CPs to the event.
 
 IG and managing director of Police Housing and Welfare Corporation Deepak Pandey, who has served in the city as additional CP, also described the proposed structure as the ‘biggest’ and ‘most impressive’ administrative building in the state, which is expected to be completed within two years. Addressing a press conference at the CP office on Friday,   said a team of officials moved around the country to draw inspiration for its design.
 
 “The architecture of the building has been so planned that it would mingle with the local topography, which is dotted with sloping bungalow structures. The dome of the building would emulate that of Nag Bhavan in colour and style. The pillars would reflect those of the CP office in Mumbai. Inspiration has also been drawn from the CP office of Bhuvaneshwar,” he said.
 
 Pandey attributed the speedy progress of the proposed project to CP K Venkatesham, also present at the press conference, with Jt CP  , who masterminded a sea change in the architectural design of his present office.   said the upcoming structure would be an ‘íconic’ structure in Civil Lines. 
 
 The officials claimed that the aspect of cost saving has also been a crucial feature in designing the project, with common 240-seater conference room, cafeteria and also a combined control room. “In Mumbai and Nagpur, a project of common dialling facility for 100 would soon be launched as pilot project. The rest of the work would be shared,” he said.
 
 
