PANAJI: The agriculture department’s efforts to bring 500ha of land in Goa under mechanized farming has led to 50ha of fallow land in   being tilled for cultivation this season.

 For a change, traditional methods will give way to mechanized transplantation of the paddy crop on the island. Several hectares of agricultural land was lying unused in St Estevam for over two decades. 
 
 A significant reduction in labour inputs and costs have been witness with farm mechanization making slow but steady inroads in the state. The introduction of transplanters in recent years, after the advent of harvesters a decade ago, has aided the process. “We hope to take up 500 hectares under paddy cultivation in focused areas of the state, as compared to 390 hectares last season,” said Nelson Figuereido, director, agriculture department. 
 
 The department has engaged service providers and offered attractive subsidies on transplanters and harvesters to boost mechanization.
 
 “The technology is available, but farmers’ mindset has to change to match it to his field requirements and that will assure him better crop productivity,” said Fr George Quadros, project director, Don Bosco Loutolim Society (DBLS). 
 
 DBLS in association with agriculture department and   technology management agency (ATMA) has been a service provider to promote transplanters and cost-effective technology. 
 
 In St Estevam, DBLS is hand-holding an initiative of some islanders led by a progressive farmer, Nestor Rangel to utilise technology to their advantage. About 200ha of land is available on the island for agriculture, but some areas are prone to flooding. 
 
 “We’ve identified about 50 hectares in areas safe from flooding to revive paddy cultivation,” says Rangel. 
 
 The department has chosen focus areas to showcase the advantages of mechanization that makes paddy cultivation much easier than in the past. “Many farmers with large tracts of land are keen about farming, but need to be told about the advantages of technology,” Figuereido said.
 
 Besides DBLS, Karnataka-based Ramesh and Company has also been appointed as a service provider. Both agencies are tasked with preparing planting materials and carrying out crop transplants for farmers.
 
 The department also plans to bring in technology to improve weeding of crop, as manual costs add to the inputs. 
 
 
