NAGPUR:  , which usually triggers symptoms only in advanced stages, was diagnosed early using an Endo Bronchial Ultra-Sound (EBUS) at   recently. The malignancy was detected without resorting to any surgery, in the first such procedure performed in Central India.

 EBUS, the most advanced pulmonary machine in the world, allowing a technique known as transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA), to obtain tissue or fluid samples from the lungs and surrounding lymph nodes without conventional surgery. Pulmonologist Dr Sameer Arbat performed two such procedures on consecutive days.
 
 The first procedure was performed on January 17 on 27-year-old male from  , who was eventually diagnosed with tuberculosis ( ) of the lung using  .
 
 On January 18, the procedure was performed on a 73-year-old male from Chandpur village of Raheli taluka, Sagar district (Madhya Pradesh), who was diagnosed with cancer using Radial EBUS, which has the advantage of finding far placed lesions in the lung.
 
 
  
 “We performed our first case of Linear EBUS and Radial EBUS on consecutive days. It took me almost two years of training in Italy and higher centres in Delhi and Mumbai to achieve dexterity in handling the EBUS. This procedure helped the patient get an early diagnosis, and go home on the very same day, thus saving time and money,” said Arbat.
 
 Arbat said, “Both the patients had come with common symptoms of cough and breathlessness.”
 
 “In the absence of EBUS, in the first case, the patient would have undergone surgery called mediastinoscopy to provide access to the chest. In that a small incision is made in the neck just above the breastbone or next to the breastbone. Next, a thin scope, called a mediastinoscope, is inserted through the opening to provide access to the lungs and surrounding lymph nodes. Tissue or fluid is then collected though biopsy,” said Arbat.
 
 He said, “In the second case, the CAT scan reports had shown the suspected cancer at the outer border of the lungs. Eventually, EBUS helped us to view malignancy, calculate the staging of cancer and take out a sample to perform further pathology tests on it.”
 
 He explained, “The conventional way is to insert the needle right through the chest to take out the sample and all this is while CAT scan is being performed. There is serious risk involved with it, as it may allow outer air to enter lungs.”
 
 “Studies have shown that EBUS is cost-effective as it reduces the need for more morbid and costly invasive procedures like mediastinoscopy or thoracotomy. The introduction of this facility will benefit patients from Nagpur as well as Central India for early diagnosis of lung cancer, sarcoid, TB of mediastinal glands,” said Dr Ashok Arbat, senior pulmonologist, KRIMS.
 
 
