NAVI MUMBAI: Five persons were killed and one seriously injured on the   after a speeding tempo ran over them before dawn on Monday.

 They were among a group of eight residents from   who were travelling to Pune in a van to attend a marriage function when the vehicle broke down near Devad village in Panvel. The occupants had alighted and were pushing the van on the Mumbai carriageway when they were knocked down.
  
  
 Mudrika Jaiswar, one of the van’s occupants, said, “We were on our way to Pune to attend the marriage of one of our neighbours in Mankhurd. Around 4am, the vehicle we were travelling in broke down. We pushed the van to the Mumbai-bound carriageway to access a garage on that side.” The vehicle had broken down six times during the journey.
 
 
 
 
 Jaiswar added, “When we were pushing the vehicle on the extreme left lane of the Mumbai-bound carriageway, a speeding tempo rammed into those pushing the vehicle and the driver fled. While three died on the spot, two breathed their last on the way to the hospital.”
 
 The three who were killed on the spot were identified as Santosh Prajapati (40), Juman Ali (55) and Rashid Khan (25). The two others who died at MGM Hospital in Kamothe were Ajodhya Yadav (40) and Dinesh Jaiswar
 
 (35). Ramchandra Yadav (45) is struggling for his life in the hospital’s ICU. Mudrika Jaiswar and Sanjay Rajvar had a narrow escape.
 
 Prajapati was a medicine deliveryman; Ali a driver; Khan was in the tiles business; Ajodhya Yadav (40) was an iron trader and Dinesh Jaiswar was in the grille fabrication business.
 
 Ramchandra Yadav is a dress salesman and Mudrika Jaiswar a tailor, while Rajvar is in the fish trade.
 
 Khandeswar police assistant inspector Sopan Nangre said, “A manhunt has been launched to nab the tempo driver.” Khandeswar police have lodged an FIR under the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act.
 
 After conducting the post-mortem, Panvel rural hospital medical superintendent Dr B S Lohare said, “All the deceased had suffered multiple injuries in the head and chest, as well as fractures.”
 
 Meanwhile, a pall of gloom descended over Indira Nagar chawl in Mankhurd after residents received news of the death of five men in the fatal mishap. All five were residents of their locality.
 
 Resident Mohammad Afaad (45), a driver, said, “The group of eight locals was travelling in the van owned by one of them to reach Junnar in Pune to attend the wedding of the son of a local resident whom everyone called ‘Mama’.”
 
 Gufran Khan (23), brother of the deceased Rashid Khan, said, “Rashid was the eldest amongst three brothers. He was very excited to attend the wedding of Mama’s son who was his close friend. Rashid had taken taken the responsibility of the sole bread-winner for our family at an early age. He has a two-year-old daughter.”
 
 Prajapati, one of the deceased, is survived by his wife and four minor children.
 
 Dr Vishal Bhat at MGM hospital, Kamothe, said, “Four accident patients were brought by ambulance to our hospital. Out of them, one was declared brought dead on arrival and two others succumbed to their grievous head injuries during resuscitation. Ramchandra Yadav’s CT scan showed blood clots in his brain. He was immediately operated upon. He is in the ICU.”
 
 
