 (SANGRUR): Banga, the village of  , one of the two accused identified so far for their involvement in the  , remembers him as the security guard of the Dera Sacha Sauda chief who had taken away all belongings of his elder brother after he shifted to the dera about 25 years back.

 Amrik, who owns 1.5 acres of land in the village on   state highway, was selected as a sepoy in the  . However, he refused to join the force and went missing for six months. He came back as a staunch dera follower and subsequently convinced his father   and mother Gurmeet Kaur to shift to the dera.
 
 
 Nirbhay Singh, 50, the elder brother of Amrik Singh, who lives on his 1.5 acre of land on the outskirts of the village, does not have many pleasant memories of his sibling.
 
 “After he took away all my belongings, leaving me and family to live in penury, I snapped all ties with him,”   said. This was not all. His elder brother said that a few years after joining the dera, Amrik came back and persuaded him to sell one acre of land that the two brothers jointly but took away all the money from the land sale. Their father Harbhajan Singh had shifted to Banga village about 45 years back from   near   and had bought four acres of land in the name of his two sons-Amrik and Nirbhay.
 
 Elder bro last saw Maur blast accused in Sirsa
 
 Now Nirbhay Singh tills the 1.5 acre owned by Amrik Singh and pays him Rs 50,000 a year as contract money, which is deposited in his bank account. “Once, when I was unable to pay the contract money to Amrik, he came here with some dera followers and threatened me and my family with a revolver, which we learnt had been given to him by the dera,” he said.
 
 “He has not visited the village for the many years. I last saw him at Dera Sacha Sauda about one and half years back when I went to pay obeisance,” said Amrik, who is a dera follower but chose to play down his association with it.
 
 Amrik had become a follower of   and later continued with his loyalties towards Gurmeet Ram Rahim, who was last year convicted for raping two Sadvis.
 
 Amrik’s niece (sister’s daughter) Gurvinder Kaur too was in the security team of the dera chief and while another niece Sukhpal Kaur was a sadhvi. However, it is learnt that they snapped their ties with the dera after the rape controversy.
 
 Nirbhay, who got to know that his brother had been identified as one of the accused in the Maur Mandi blast just two days ago, said the Haryana police had raided their house soon after the Dera violence to know Amrik’s whereabouts. “Later, the CBI also came to ask about him,” he said.
 
 Before his name cropped up in the Maur case, Haryana police had booked him in connection with the Panchkula violence. In the FIR, his name figures as the 16th accused, who was often seen escorting the dera chief during his outings.
 
