NEW DELHI: Under fire from opposition parties, with   and others seeking an apology for its chief ’s statement allegedly belittling the Army, RSS on Monday said   had been quoted out of context as he had never criticised the armed forces. 

 “Bhagwatji had said that, if the situation arises and the Constitution permits, the Indian Army would take six months to prepare society whereas Sangh swayamsevaks could be trained in three days, as swayamsevaks practise discipline regularly,” RSS national media coordinator   said on Monday after opposition parties accused Bhagwat of plotting to raise a saffron militia. 
 
 Vaidya said Bhagwat’s statement was in no way a comparison between the Army and swayamsevaks, but one between the general society and swayamsevaks if both were to be trained by the Army. “Bhagwatji had also said RSS cadres follow the discipline of military... so where is the comparison?” Vaidya asked. 
 
 He said RSS cadres had helped the Army during all wars and its contribution was praised by several Army chiefs. “RSS has helped the armed forces shoulder-to-shoulder in the past. However, the organisation is neither a military or paramilitary but a family organisation,” Vaidya told TOI. RSS shared Bhagwat’s speech on its official Twitter handle. 
 
 Earlier, Congress president Rahul Gandhi had demanded an apology from the saffron outfit. “The RSS chief ’s speech is an insult to every Indian, because it disrespects those who have died for our nation. It is an insult to our flag because it insults every soldier who ever saluted it,” Rahul tweeted. “Shame on you Mr Bhagwat, for disrespecting our martyrs and our Army,” he added. Rahul’s colleague Anand Sharma as well as Samajwadi Party, CPM and CPI joined in the attack, with SP leader Azam Khan commenting, “Now, India has two armies... the country should wage war against China and Pakistan simultaneously.”
 
 Sharma said the remarks suggested RSS’s plan to raise a private militia and demanded that the PM clarify if he approved of it. He said nations that had allowed private militias and military outfits independent of the country’s armed forces to fight for it “paid a heavy price”. While Kerala chief minister P Vijayan said Bhagwat’s statement was in “poor taste”, BJP ally and   chief minister Nitish Kumar defended Bhagwat. 
 
 "What is wrong in it. As per my information, he has talked about the readiness of his organisation to defend the country’s border. It should be welcomed if any civil organisation does that. I don’t think there is any harm in that,” he said. CPI’s D Raja said, “Both CPI and RSS were formed in 1925, but while CPI joined ranks with those fighting for India’s freedom and faced the gallows, RSS was nowhere to be seen. All these years later, they are suddenly claiming to defend the country by embarrassing the Army and undermining its capabilities.”
