MUMBAI: The man who was credited with popularising the internet in the country, tech expert  , passed away on Tuesday night following a cardiac arrest.   (61) had introduced the internet to India in 1995 when it was still in its nascent stages, through the gateway of Videsh Sanchar Nigam Limited. 

 Friends from the tech sector had fond memories to share of Mukhi. Harish Mehta, chief managing director of Onward Technologies Ltd, said: “Vijay was a close friend. We used to often meet at his Nepeansea Road home to chat about tech in the ’80s. In fact,   was launched from his house in 1986.” Mehta recalled that Mukhi was instrumental in getting the dynamic Dewang Mehta onboard Nasscom in 1991. Dewang Mehta, a tech evangelist like Mukhi, died young, in 2001. “Now we have lost   too,” he said. Mehta said he had met Mukhi on Tuesday evening for the launch of his two books on technology. 
 
 “The last conversation I had with Vijay at the booklaunch was on virtual reality and AI [artificial intelligence]. He wanted to take AI forward in a big way. His wife, Sonal, always stood firmly by him,” said Mehta. Mukhi was instrumental in convincing actor late Shammi Kapoor to hop onto the internet bandwagon. In 1995, Kapoor was made chairman of Internet Users Community of India. The day Kapoor first held the computer mouse, he told mediapersons that he had stopped holding the cigarette and totally quit smoking. Back then, Kapoor who had a Macintosh computer at his residence used to call himself ‘Macman’. Former Nasscom member Rajiv Vaishnav recalled that Mukhi was “most sought after” by the cyber crime police officers since that “sensational hacking of the Mumbai police website” in 2001. “Mukhi helped Mumbai cops set up the earliest cyber crime lab for the police at Worli”. 
 
 Cyber law advocate S Nappinai said Mukhi’s contribution to creating awareness of cyber threats within the judiciary and police was invaluable. Though usually jovial, Mukhi was once annoyed with this correspondent over an article in which he was inadvertently called “selfstyled internet guru”. When I tried to explain that it was a silly editing issue, Mukhi, in his inimitable style, said: “You were possibly the first reporter to call me internet guru in your earlier articles. Then other media guys started calling me internet guru, though I did not ask them to do so.” But he did not hold agrudge for long. One of the earliest tech articles that this correspondent had written was on how the process of making a deadly explosive was available on the WorldWideWeb. 
 
 The memory of the bomb blasts of 1993 was still green then. Indian Police Service officer, late AS Samra was quoted in the article, as saying that the media should not write about how easy it is to make bombs using the internet. To this, Mukhi shot back, “Bombs were made even before the internet existed. The internet is not a terrorist, the people are.” Aprayer meeting will be held at KC College, Churchgate, on January 12 from 5 pm to 7 pm.
