Kolkata: After more than a decade, elephants in Bengal are set to get radio collars.

 The state forest department with technical help from Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bangalore will radio-collar two elephants in south Bengal next week. For the first time in the country, the exercise is being taken up to check man-elephant conflict.
 
 Talking to TOI, state chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said: “To start with, we are planning to radio-collar two elephants in Midnapore division. Earlier, such exercises were taken up mostly for solitary elephants, commonly known as loners. But this time, we will radio-collar elephants from herds. The move will help us get an idea about an entire herd’s movement. And accordingly, we will take steps to mitigate conflicts.”
 
 A researcher with IISc revealed that a team would reach Midnapore division on Tuesday. “Once we get to know the locations of the herds, we will start the field operations. To begin with, we will radio-collar at least two elephants from two different herds,” he said.
 
 A senior forester said they would thus alert villagers and also ground-level staff about the herds’ movements. Later, action would be taken to safely drive them out.
 
 The GPS collars, a source said, have been indigenously designed in collaboration with a French organisation and its signals can be accessed from a computer or a smart phone.
 
 Elephants were last radio-collared in Bengal in 2003. The IISc researcher said it was taken up in Buxa-Jaldapara. “Seven elephants were radio-collared at that time. But that was mainly for academic research. This is the first time the exercise is being taken up to mitigate conflict. Here, the radio collar will act as an early-warning system,” the researcher added.
 
 It may be noted elephants from Jharkhand’s Dalma sanctuary migrate to south Bengal districts of Bankura, Midnapore and Purulia every year. Illegal digging of trenches and electric-wire fencing have blocked traditional migratory routes of jumbos, resulting in prolonged stay and triggering conflicts.
 
 
