PATNA: The   on Wednesday said the special CBI court order convicting Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case was not final and it would appeal in the high court and, if necessary, in the Supreme Court.

 Leader of the opposition in Bihar assembly and Lalu’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav also accused chief minister Nitish Kumar and the BJP of framing his father who was viewed as a “hero” by the masses.
 
 “We have to abide by whatever is the court’s ruling. But the CBI court order is not going to be final. We will appeal in the high court and, if need be, in the Supreme Court,” Tejashwi said.
 
 “It is a common perception that Lalu Prasad, whom the public views as its hero, has been framed in the cases at the instance of Nitish Kumar and the BJP-RSS brigade,” he told reporters outside Raj Bhavan here.
 
 Lalu’s detractors, he added, have always been scared of his immense popularity.
 
 Tejashwi claimed the BJP-led NDA was planning to hold elections in Bihar by December this year and this was evident with senior BJP leaders as well as RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat undertaking tours of the state.
 
 The NDA wants to keep Lalu embroiled in legal difficulties so that it is smooth sailing for the alliance, he said. But it is mistaken as the RJD would give a fitting reply to the NDA whenever elections are held, the former deputy CM added.
 
 A five-member delegation of RJD also called on governor Satya Pal Malik at Raj Bhavan and submitted a three-page memorandum seeking immediate dismissal of the state government.
 
 The delegation led by RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari and Tejashwi demanded the dismissal of Nitish Kumar government on the issue of “deteriorating law and order scenario” and “exposure of a series of scams” in the state in recent months.
 
 The party, in its memorandum, alleged that “the incidents of serious crime like loot, bank robbery, extortion (rangdari) and abduction have become order of the day in almost all districts and towns across the state in the last six months. Criminals are openly committing crime and administrative officers are engaged in hushing up the cases. The crime data reveals that no government worth its name exists in Bihar”.
 
 Mentioning the Nandan village incident in Buxar district where CM Nitish’s convoy was attacked a few weeks ago, they alleged that innocent people belonging to scheduled castes were being arrested and harassed by the police.
 
 “The media and social audit reports exposed a series of scams like the Srijan, toilet, paddy procurement, LED, jambuster and BPSC lecturer appointment in the state in recent months and the involvement of people in power cannot be ruled out,” the memorandum, signed by Tejashwi, said.
 
 “A fair investigation in majority of the cases of corruption is not possible if the ‘mukhiya’ and ‘deputy mukhiya’ of the state continues to remain on their posts,” they said.
 
 Other delegation members were former Lok Sabha member Mangani Lal Mandal, former minister Shiv Chandra Ram and party MLA Shakti Singh Yadav.
 
 
