MADURAI: Banks cannot approach the passport authorities for impounding the passport of a loanee in case of default on loan payment, the Madras high court Madurai bench has ruled.

 “If the bank has any grievance with the loanee, it is always open to it to approach the concerned tribunal restraining the loanee from leaving the country, but can’t approach the passport authorities seeking impounding of passport,” said justice V Bharathidasan while hearing a case filed by one Ramesh who obtained an educational loan from the   (IOB) branch in Tirunelveli.
 
 Accordingly, the court set aside the notice issued by the bank by saying that it was not valid in the eye of law. 
 
 Ramesh, who had obtained an educational loan still owes Rs 12.86 lakh to the IOB. For non-payment of money, the bank initiated proceedings against him under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interests (SARFAESI) Act, 2002 and issued notice to him. Challenging it, he filed an appeal before the debt recovery tribunal ( ), Madurai and the same is pending. Subsequently, the bank approached the passport authorities. Challenging it, he filed a case.
 
 In arguments, the petitioner’s counsel contended that if the bank has any grievance for non-payment of any loan amount, there are remedies available to the bank which can’t ask the passport authorities to impound the petitioner’s passport. Hence, the bank needed to be directed to follow decision in the case pending before the DRT. 
 
 The assistant solicitor general appeared for the passport authorities said that no request came from the bank. If the request comes, they will issue proper notice to the petitioner and thereafter will take action. 
 
 Stating that the petitioner is employed in Singapore, the bank submitted that as per Section 25 of the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, the bank is entitled to approach the concerned tribunal restraining the petitioner from leaving the country. After hearing concerned sides, the judge said “Admittedly, a proceedings has also been initiated under the SARFAESI Act and appeal is pending before the DRT. In the above circumstances, the bank can’t make any request to the passport authorities. Hence, the bank’s notice is set aside.” 
 
 
