BENGALURU: While the spotlight has been on   national president Amit Shah and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) has quietly begun mobilising its cadres in the state ahead of assembly elections. Amplifying the issue of Hindutva and the murders of Hindu activists and working in the shadows, RSS functionaries are using the organisation’s network to sway voters towards the BJP.

 As many as 28 senior pracharaks from across the country have converged in Bengaluru and have begun contacting their shakas across the state. According to RSS functionaries, their pracharaks and activists will focus primarily on north-Karnataka districts — where between 80 and 100 seats could prove crucial — and the coastal areas of the state.
 
 The RSS has been tasked with negating the Lingayat-Veerashaiva split and its effects in the region. Foot soldiers of the Sangh Parivar will spread the message that the Congress is trying to divide Hindus. In the coastal districts and Mysuru, the focus will be on the murders of Hindu activists, which has been projected as a poll issue by Shah during his visits to the state.
 
 “The bulk of our focus in the coastal areas will be to energise our cadre against the popular front of India (PFI) and the socialist democratic party of India (SDPI),” said a functionary. The local units of the RSS will also work with BJP leaders, if and when required.
 
 BJP sources say the entire organisational activity to mobilise party cadre has been handed over to the RSS senior leaders in the state unit. Under the leadership of B L Santosh and Arun Kumar, both of whom are staunch RSS members and hold prominent posts in the Sangh parivar, BJP rallies and visits of their national leadership has been literally “outsourced” to them.
 
 Meanwhile, in the communally sensitive coastal districts, Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat has been identified as the key man to lead activities of the BJP-RSS combine to counter Congress and radical minority community outfits.
 
 “While there is no hard and fast rule for us to be involved in the election process, it has become an integral part of our activity to get involved in electoral politics behind the scenes,” said another RSS functionary.
 
