NEW DELHI: The sudden change of   on Friday evening brought respite in terms of heat, but it affected both flight and Delhi   operations on a large scale. Indira Gandhi International (IGI) airport reported 24 flight diversions between 5.30pm and 7.30pm due to poor weather, while over 100 flights were delayed. Metro operations were affected on the Pink and Blue lines.

 Airport Met officials said flight operations were partially affected for roughly two hours from 5.20pm onwards with visibility coming down to 900 metres around 5.30pm. Visibility improved to 1,500m when rain started. Wind speeds ranged between 60-70 kmph during this period.
 
 “The airport has been kept under local thunderstorm/rain alert on April 6 and 7 and between April 10 and 12 for evening and night for duration of 1-2 hours. Warnings are issued to ATC and airlines in real-time using satellites,” said the Met official.
 
 Apart from air and road traffic, even metro operations were disrupted.
 
  Commuters complained of slow moving trains and arriving at frequency of 20-30 minutes even during peak hours. Blue Line (Dwarka Sector 21-Noida City Centre/Vaishali) saw major disruptions and stations such as Rajiv Chowk and Mandi House were packed with passengers.
 
 The recently-opened Pink Line witnessed a snag after an iron sheet fell on the tracks near ESI Hospital, sources said.
 
 A Delhi Metro spokesperson, however, said that the electrical overhead equipment (OHE) of down line (towards South Campus) kept tripping from 6.25pm onwards due to the sudden thunderstorm. “To keep the services up, trains were run on the up line between Naraina and South Campus. A train that got stuck between Delhi Cantt and South Campus due to OHE tripping was vacated and its 23 passengers were sent towards Cantt side,” he added.
 
 The spokesperson said that the OHE tripping issues were sorted out at 8.20 pm and normal services were restored.
 
 The arterial roads of adjoining Noida also got choked for nearly two hours due to the thunderstorm. Vehicular movement remained slow on DND Flyway, Dalit Prerna Sthal, Captain Vijayant Thapar Marg and Captain Shashi Kant Sharma Marg. A streetlight pole fell on the road between Sector 15A and the SSP office in Sector 14A around 7pm. Traffic inspector Layak Singh told TOI, “A large crane had to be called and the pole was removed by 7.45pm.”
 
 Traffic also slowed at Shashi Chowk, 12/22/56, Balak Nath, Sector 50/51, T-Series and Shiv Mandir Sector 22 intersections as signals went dysfunctional.
 
