BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: A fresh controversy erupted on Friday over the appointment of BJP MLA K G   as pro tem speaker for the assembly, with Congress and JD(S) claiming the move went against convention that the post should go to the most senior member of the House - in this case, R V Deshpande of Congress. 

 The combine approached the Supreme Court for the second time in as many days to challenge the appointment, terming it "ex facie unconstitutional and illegal". 
 
 A bench of justices A K Sikri, S A Bobde and Ashok Bhushan will hear the plea at 10.30am on Saturday.
 
 Bopaiah was sworn in as pro tem speaker by governor Vajubhai R Vala on Friday, within hours of the SC passing an interim order that a pro tem speaker should preside over Saturday's trust vote.
 
 The opposition parties allege that Bopaiah was picked because of his antecedents in handling trust votes in a controversial manner. They said Bopaiah had been hauled up by the SC for irregularly disqualifying MLAs during B S Yeddyurappa's earlier stint as chief minister.
 
 
  
  
 
 BJP, however, defended the appointment with Union minister Prakash Javadekar tweeting: “K G Bopaiah was appointed pro tem speaker even in 2008 by the then governor. That time Bopaiah was 10 years younger than what he is today. The Congress is thus raising hoax objection. The appointment of Bopaiah Ji is as per rules and regulations.”
 
 The five-term MLA representing Virajpet in Madikeri district will administer oath to 220 newly elected MLAs (JD-S leader H D Kumaraswamy has been elected from two seats and will have to vacate one of them). Subsequently, he will conduct the trust vote to be moved by CM B S Yeddyurappa. This is perhaps the first time in Karnataka’s legislative history that a pro tem speaker will oversee a trust vote.
 
 Normally, the function of a pro tem speaker is limited to administering oath to MLAs and conducting the election of the speaker.
 
 Describing Bopaiah as “dented and tainted”, Congress alleged that he had broken rules in the past to help Yeddyurappa. Bopaiah had presided over a controversial trust vote taken by BSY in October 2010, after some BJP MLAs revolted against him.
 
 Bopaiah had then ordered the disqualification of 11 BJP and five independent MLAs, and his decision was upheld by the Karnataka high court. Yeddyurappa won the trust vote amid chaos in the assembly.
 
 However, the SC quashed it in 2011, saying the disqualification “did not meet the twin tests of natural justice and fair play”. The bench said: “The disqualified members could not participate, and, in their absence, Yeddyurappa was able to prove his majority in the House. Unless it was to ensure that the trust vote did not go against the chief minister, there was no conceivable reason for the speaker to have taken up the disqualification application in such a great hurry.”
 
 Congress described Bopaiah’s appointment as another instance of governor Vala’s “encounter of the Constitution”, as he had ignored the eight-term MLA R V Deshpande of Congress.
 
 
