A stone archway welcoming one and all into the premises has stood strong since it was constructed over a century ago. The archway leads into a courtyard covered with soothing greenery, taking one away from the concrete jungle of Bajirao Road and the neighboring Peth areas. Right across the courtyard, in the centre of the premises is the library which holds over 15,000 original handwritten manuscripts on 26 different subjects running into 10,88,619 pages.

 The 130-year-old  , founded by Mahadevrao Chimanaji Apte, is among the lesser known treasures in Pune. Located next to Nutan Marathi Vidyalaya on Bajirao Road, the building holds treasures of knowledge sought by Indians and foreigners alike.
 
 “Anandashram, though older than Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute, has failed to gain recognition from the government despite dealing in the same type of work. We have 15,100 handwritten manuscripts on various subjects such as the Alankara Sahitya, the Upanishads, Kamashastra, Kavya, Jyotisha, Nyaya, Veda, Vaidyakashastra and many more which are relevant to even the modern sciences as well. Our founder, Mahadevrao Chimanaji Apte collected these manuscripts by travelling all over the country,” Vasant Anant Apte, managing trustee of Anandashram Sanstha, said.
 
 The institute has published 197 volumes on various subjects related to Hinduism and Indian cultur into 64,000 Sanskrit.
 
 “We have ter copies of of these pr served in our office. Only 45% of these books have been re-pub lished depen ing on the mand. We hav to re-publish the books and are unable to do so due to a financial crunch,” he explained.
 
 A short tour of the premises revealed that Anandashram Sanstha holds not only a treasure trove of knowledge but much more. Located on the floor above the library is a Shiva temple, the temple of  , with a unique Shivaling located at the rear end of the room.
 
 Pillars intricately carved with various designs and original paintings by Raja Ravi Verma adorn the walls of the temple. In a unique set up, the water flows on the samadhi of Mahadevrao Apte on the floor below. The premises also has a hostel for students from across the state studying in the city — with all the modern amenities that can ensure a comfortable stay. One visit to the library and one can see lines of steel cupboards holding the manuscripts with two librarians —   and   Mane. They have been constantly engaged in using a set procedure to preserve the ancient knowledge.
 
 Having worked in Anandashram’s library for over a decade, both   and Mane said the number of readers visiting the library have dwindled over the years. “Since the number of people who can read Sanskrit has reduced, the number of people visiting the library has also gone down. But we do have researchers and experts from India and abroad, who come to learn from the extracts of these rare manuscripts during their research for educational purposes or to write a book. Over the years, we have catalogued all the manuscripts subject-wise to ensure a quick search for readers,” explained Mane.
 
 According to trustee  , the government must make Sanskrit mandatory in schools to keep the language alive.
 
 “Hardly a few people from the country today really know Sanskrit, which is the mother of all languages. Readership has dropped manifold over the years and we are fast losing out on lot of ancient knowledge due to this. Our book sales have dropped over the last seven years because Sanksrit readers have reduced and also because people are unaware of the treasures of knowledge lying here,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Anandashram has successfully completed the digitization of all its manuscripts that are now available in the soft format on DVDs.
 
 
