KOLKATA: The residents of east   have sought a deadline from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) for completion of the water pipelaying work on Raja Rammohan Roy Road.

 The work has been going on for over a month-and-a-half. This follows another extension of roadblock in two weeks sought by the civic body on the east Behala stretch for the completion of the laying of 1,000mm diameter water pipe.
 
 All the bus routes – around six of them – have been rerouted as a result, virtually making thousands of residents on Motilal Gupta Road, Santosh Roy Road and James Long Sarani dependent only on autos to commute office, schools and colleges. The area is represented by MLA Sovan Chatterjee who is also the mayor of the city. KMC said it will take another couple of months for the work to be completed.
 
 The S-31 bus route that links Jadavpur with Behala Chowrasta has been rerouted through   and Rashbehari. Other minibus routes like Sarada Park-Anandapur and Thakurpukur-Ruby have been rerouted through Thakurpukur and Haridevpur. “This has increased commuting time by around 45 minutes-1 hour,” said Tathagata Mukherjee, a resident of Sakherbazar, who commutes to   in Sector V every day.
 
 Locals said autos plying on the route are taking advantage of the situation. Dipankar Manna, a resident of Sitalatala, said, “The auto operators have divided the route in two. One section of autos ply from Sakherbazar to Tollygunge, another services only up to Sitalatala. They say that this will allow thousands living in Sodepur, Kalitala and Muchipara to take the autos. The plan seems okay, but the auto drivers charge arbitrary fares from evening.”
 
 Several schoolchildren too use this route. “We often get late queuing up for autos. We have to spend a fortune on rickshaws or taxis,” said Jhuma Mondal, mother of  , a Purushottam Bhagchandka Academic School student.
 
 Many others who reside in West Behala would commute to Tollygunge Metre within 30 minutes. The detours now mean that they have to use alternatives on the Diamond Harbour Road. “Now that Raja Rammohan Road has been dug up along with James long Sarani, the pressure on DH Road is immense. The worst affected are the   commuters from this part of the city, taking autos to either Tollygunge or Rashbehari crossing. It is proving to be too time consuming,” said Pushpita Majumdar, who works at a bank at Girish Park.
 
 KMC officials said they are trying to complete the work in the earliest possible time. “We must all understand that this is a major project that will be helpful to lakhs of citizens here. A little patience will bear fruits,” an official said.
 
