CHANDIGARH: Recall the ‘Nagada Nagada’ song-and-dance sequence from Imtiaz Ali’s   blockbuster  , in which on-screen lovers Shahid Kapur and Kareena Kapoor set the box office on fire. The producers laughed their way to the bank but the guys behind all the hard work of putting it together—the line producers—went unnoticed.

 A major part of the film was shot in  , thanks to the support of Punjabi line producer Darshan Aulakh. They are the guys who make all the arrangements of a film shooting on location and put their heads into the nitty-gritty of filmmaking. “How many of you are aware of our existence?” asks Aulakh, the man behind more than 100 films and documentaries.
 
 
 
 When producers from Mumbai want to shoot a film, say in Punjab, they want people to hunt for the best locations and hotels for the cast and crew.  , who are owners of a local film banner usually, handle this job for them.
 
 As line producers, Jarnail Singh of Virasat Films and his brother, Gurpreet Singh of Kisaan Productions, are paid on a daily basis and sometimes given a package of up to Rs 5 lakh, in which they have to make every arrangement. The pay packet differs from one production house to another. Gurpreet Singh has been associated with the shooting of Yamla Paagla Deewana, Son of Sardaar, Fashion, Heropanti and some other Bollywood films in Punjab. Aulakh says: “Line producers handle everything behind the camera and have no room for relaxation.”
 
  Back to Punjab
 
 Aulakh says that the anti-Sikh riots of 1984 started a long lull in Bollywood shootings in Punjab. The assassination of Punjabi film hero Varinder, a cousin of Bollywood veteran Dharmendra, worsened the situation. “Militancy in the state kept Bollywood away from Punjab despite the requirement of Punjabi locations for shooting,” said Aulakh, who has been associated with big-ticket Hindi film projects such as Veer-Zaara, Namaste London,  ,  , Jab We Met, Bachna Ae Haseeno, Singh Is King, and Dil Bole Hadippa!
 
 Veer Zara brought Bollywood back into Punjab. “The producers wanted to create a set in Haryana initially, but the hunt for authenticity drove them to the Wagah border and, once the floodgates opened, even Hollywood flowed in to shoot Zero Dark 30 and 5 Weddings,” says Aulakh, who is from Abohar originally.
 
 The picturesque locales of Punjab have always been a favourite with film producers. Parineeti Chopra, Arjun Kapoor, and Abhishek Bachchan also have shot in Punjab for Namaste England and Manmarziyan.
 
  Thankless job
 
 Chandigarh line producer Gabbar Sangrur, whose Bollywood portfolio includes Udta Punjab and Mausam, and who worked with Hollywood producers of West Is West and television productions Gumraah and Saavdhaan India, says: “We slog it out but don’t get our due. We are backroom boys, but the pay is good. There is also a reputation to be maintained.” Aulakh says: “I have been in this field for years as actor, director, producer, and writer. If even a day’s shooting gets ruined because of reasons beyond our control, we have to bear the brunt of the producers.” His latest project was Soorma, the biopic on hockey star Sandeep Singh.
 
 Jarnail has a different take, that: “We should thank the producers who give us jobs. The work pressure varies depending on the project. The producers also have their opinion, and it’s our job to listen to it.”
 
  At home in Punjab
 
 Gurpreet says: “Punjab is a popular location and Chandigarh is within 15 minutes of both villages and the hills. Even the labour here is cheaper than in Mumbai, and since there’s no trade union hassle either, the crew can work for 15 hours at a stretch. To focus on writing and direction, since I have a film with Diljit Dosanjh coming up, I have not done any line production since Heropanti. But if a Sunny Deol or Salman Khan film comes my way, I am game.”
 
 These line producers, who are accomplished actors and directors, could have shifted to Mumbai for better money if their heart wasn’t in Punjab. “There is no dearth of opportunities in Punjab,” Aulakh said. “And since I am a proud Punjabi, the question of settling outside doesn’t arise.” With Bollywood and Hollywood back in love with the Land of Five Rivers, why should he?
 
 Darshan Aulakh
 
 Production house | Darshan Aulakh Productions
 
 Films as line producer | Veer-Zaara, Namaste London, Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi, Bajrangi Bhaijaan, Jab We Met, Bachna Ae Haseeno, Singh Is King, Dil Bole Hadippa!, Jab Harry Met Sejal, Zero Dark 30
 
 Gabbar Sangrur
 
 Production house | The Theatre Army Films
 
 Films as line producer | Udta Punjab, Mausam, 31st October, Student of the Year, West Is West
 
 Gurpreet Singh
 
 Production house | Kisaan Productions
 
 Films as line producer | Yamla Paagla Deewana I & II, Son of Sardar, Fashion, Heropanti, Ghayal Returns, Hollywood projects
 
 Major Films shot in Punjab
 
 Veer-Zaara, Jab We Met, Mere Brother Ki Dulhan, Flying Jatt, Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi, Heropanti, Fashion, Namaste London
 
 
