SHIMLA: Shoolini University, Solan has emerged as one of the top five private universities of north India as per rankings given by the prestigious National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) set up by the Union ministry of human resource development (HRD).

 “I am very happy that Shoolini University is now among the top five private universities of the northern region, including states of  , Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Jammu and Kashmir,” said vice-chancellor  .
 
 He said the NIRF rankings have emerged as the most authentic ranking systems for the Indian institutes since the last three years. The five parameters that are used to determine NIRF rankings are teaching and learning resources (TLR), research and professional practice (RPC), graduation outcome (GO), outreach inclusivity (OI) and perception, he added.
 
 He said all the participant universities from across the country submit their data based on the above five parameters, which is further verified by the NIRF and the rankings are determined accordingly.
 
 He said the university had not only retained its position in the top overall 101-150 band from among about 4,500 institutions of higher learning in the country but has earned a slot in the 51-75 band in the MBA and has improved its performance in pharmacy by attaining 30th rank.
 
 “The research achievements of Shoolini are already better than the average of 10 best universities of the country. I feel extremely proud we are competing with some of the leading private universities in the region which have been established for much longer time than Shoolini,” he added.
 
 Pro-vice-chancellor   said, “While only four private universities from the northern region have found a place in the top 100 band, Shoolini University is only among three who have figured in the 101-150 band in the overall rankings. Two of these are from Himachal Pradesh and one from Uttarakhand.”
 
 According to information, Shoolini University had applied for rankings only in three categories - overall, management and pharmacy - and has figured well in all the three categories.
 
 
