Birth control, also known as contraception and fertility control is a method or device used to prevent pregnancy. Birth control has been used since ancient times; but effective and safe methods of birth control only became available in the 20th century. There are numerous methods available for contraception and use of oral contraceptives is widely accepted and a fairly easy practice. 

 A new study reveals that taking oral contraceptives increases the risk of diabetes. According to the report, women who consume oral contraceptives merely for six months are more likely to develop the disease later in life. Scientists at the Kyungpook National University College of Medicine in Daegu, South Korea, studied whether long-term   use was linked to developing   and insulin resistance later in life. 
 
 They took data from Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) from 2007 to 2012 and studied 6,554 post-menopausal diabetic women. Their glucose and insulin profile was compared with 3,338 post-menopausal women without diabetes. The average age of participant in the study was 65 years old and had a body mass index (BMI) was 24.5. Other components taken into account were their age of menopause onset, number of pregnancies, systolic  ,  , hypertension, hyperlipidemia, physical activity, alcohol use and smoking status.
 
 Results suggested that that prolonged use of oral contraceptives at childbearing age may be an important risk factor for developing diabetes in later life. Not only were the post-menopausal women who had used hormonal birth control for at least six months significantly more likely to have diabetes, this same six-month timeframe of contraception use was associated with insulin resistance in the non-diabetic women as well.
 
 Earlier also, some reports of connection between oral contraceptives and diabetes have been documented. In 2014, a study from Centers for Disease Control (CDC) had found a link between hormonal contraception and gestational diabetes. This study joins the lengthy list of evidence showing the pill accounts for numerous physical dangers to women including brain cancer, stroke, breast cancer, blood clots, diminished memory, cervical cancer, paralysis, atherosclerosis, high blood pressure and death. In 2005, the World Health Organization classified the most commonly used oral contraceptive pill as a Group 1 carcinogen, meaning a “definite” cause of cancer. Hence, it is advisable to consult your doctor before self-prescribing these pills and ask for other safer options.
 
 
 
 
