By:  

 According to the  , “health is a state of physical, mental, social and spiritual well being and not merely the absence of a disease.”
 
 Most of us live in a twilight zone — we may be free of any disease, but may still not qualify as being healthy. A healthy family, society or nation cannot afford to have many unhealthy individuals.
 
 With the advent of more vaccines and potent antibiotics, we are able to overcome or contain infectious diseases. Also, a better standard of living has reduced the incidence of deficiency diseases. But this newfound prosperity and fast-paced lifestyle are making us susceptible to new disorders such as obesity, hypertension and the biggest killer — accidents and injuries. Increased longevity is also responsible for higher incidence of maturity-onset diseases like Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and cancers.
 
 A healthy mind lives in a healthy body. Therefore, the first step on the road to remaining healthy is to find out the state of this complicated machine, our body. As the carburettor and engine are the most vital parts of an automobile, a healthy heart, lungs, kidneys and liver are essential for the human body. And like well-inflated tyres, healthy limbs, eyes and ears are integral to our comfort.
 
 It is mandatory to undergo periodic check-ups to monitor weight, blood pressure, levels of haemoglobin, blood sugar, urea, creatinine, calcium, proteins, lipids and ECG (electronic cardiogram). An examination of vision, hearing, bones, joints and teeth makes this list more complete or insightful.
 
 But treating a human being is not like repairing a car or a computer. We have to factor in personality and mental conditions too. The incidence of psychosomatic diseases, where a psychological condition develops into an actual symptom or illness, is on the rise. Hyperacidity, hypertension, asthma, psoriasis and irritable bowel syndrome are some of the examples of psychosomatic diseases. Therefore, mental stress brought on by extremely fast-paced and rapidly-changing work environments need to be addressed too. By doing this, some doctors and their patients achieve a favourable outcome, while others languish in a medication loop.
 
 Earnest Hemingway’s famous words — “No man is an island” — highlights the need for congenial social environment. Great men could modify the society, but we lesser mortals must alter ourselves to the demands of our society, if we want to remain healthy.
 
 April 7 this year just happens to be the World   Day. Over the next few days, you will comes across reports, forwards and even spam calls from those promising the best new health policy. But for bringing about real difference, consider changes to your lifestyle. Good sleep, exercise and a better diet will go a long way in stabilising vitals. And what makes this ecosystem complete is the presence of an experienced doctor who should be more of a health counsellor.
 
 
 
 
