GURUGRAM: In what could come as a huge relief for thousands of residents of new sectors, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) has declared it will provide master services, like  ,   lines and sewage   in these sectors. 

 For this, it has divided the new sectors into four groups — sectors 58 to 67, 68 to 80, 81 to 97, 98 to 115 — to be serviced in phases. Of these, residents of sectors 68 to 80 will have to wait a little longer than the rest. These sectors will be the last to be taken up, due to pending issues. 
 
 TOI had recently launched a campaign ‘Give Gurugram Its Due’, highlighting the problems being faced by residents living in new sectors.
 
 GMDA is also planning to take up construction of the crucial 24m-roads in these sectors. There was no clear cut policy so far regarding these fractious issues, due to which the new sectors are still plagued by connectivity and civic issues. As per the license agreement, construction of 24m-roads within the area licensed to a builder is the latter’s responsibility. But with no existing policy for acquisition of land coming in the way of the alignment of these roads, there are several stretches where roads leading to housing projects lying unfinished, even though they have people living in them.
 
 “We’ve drawn up a plan to provide master services in the new sectors,” GMDA CEO V Umashankar told TOI. He added, “We’ll begin with sectors 58-67. Soon, we’ll hold meetings with residents and private developers of these sectors to discuss the way forward. We will also discuss the 24m-road issue. This process will be repeated in the other groups of sectors.”
 
 He however said GMDA won’t taking up work in sectors 68-80 right now due to complications. “There are quite a few complications in these sectors that first need to be resolved, before we’re able to provide the necessary services there,” he said. According to sources, there still are cases being fought in courts on land acquisition in these sectors.
 
 Residents said they are looking forward to the proposal. “All residents living in new sectors along SPR and NPR (Dwarka expressway) are dependent on water tankers and diesel generators for survival, as there is no water, electricity or sewage connection. Many finished projects are located on 24m-roads, which have not been built, leaving us in untold hardships, after having paid lakhs of rupees to buy flats,” said Arun Kumar, a Sector 103 resident. 
 
 Others too hope a resolution is in the horizon. “I’ve been forced to live in pathetic conditions because I couldn’t afford paying the EMI and rent,” said Sector 92 resident Geetika Sharma, adding, “That’s why I shifted to my new flat, even though there’s no regular power connectivity so we have to depend on smoke-belching diesel gensets, and on tankers for water. I hope GMDA solves our problems soon.”
 
 
