Trichy: In a life of fast commuting, it is pretty usual for anyone to miss the writing on the wall on streets. But not so much for the passengers at the central bus stand, who have not only made a habit of reading all the drawings but changing their public behavior accordingly. Paintings and drawing on the walls have made a huge impact on commuters’ public conduct, so much so that the bus stand has seen a drastic dip in the once prevalent practice of open urination on its premises. And if reports are to be believed, this was more down to the graffiti campaigning than anything else Having seen the result, sanitary and social workers now called for similar action in other parts of the city where public urination still prevails. “We could see real change after attractive and meaningful graffiti was drawn on wall, extolling the importance of keeping environment clean,” a 40-year-old corporation sanitary worker from central bus stand said. He said that the wall bearing beautiful paintings has certainly brought down the instances of public urination as people hesitate to pollute the colourful paintings. The Trichy Corporation, with help of professional artist and students, organised a day-long wall painting on the 250 metre long wall in the bus stand opposite to Coimbatore bay, in August 2016. People who have until then been urinating on the wall, left out the area, perceivably bashful to dirty the graffiti and taking home the ‘keep clean’ message it has put across. This, coupled with sanitary workers effort, resulted in the walls getting clean and hygienic. The move was aimed at effecting a behavioural change in people, particularly the youth, about their roles and responsibility in keeping the public spots clean and free from pollution. Corporation has renovated a public urinal close to the Coimbatore bus bay to ensure that public does not urinate on the walls where graffiti works have been made. “There are few other walls, such as district court near Anna Nagar link road and TVS tollgate where graffiti can be painted to prevent public urination,” said D Manoj, a volunteer from Shine Treechy NGO which painted the bus stand walls with graffiti. Corporation sources said that civic body is in constant touch with environmental NGOs to beautify city.