NAGPUR: Over 200 lawyers and officials attended the inaugural function of Late Advocate MR   events, organized by   ( ), Nagpur, and Late Advocate   on the district court premises on Saturday. Bombay high court judge BR Gavai inaugurated the events while Bombay high court judge BP Dharmadhikari presided over the function. The guest of honour was principal district and sessions judge VD Dongre.

 The memorial events are year-long activities which include moot courts, debates, lecture series and presentation which are aimed at improving the skills of budding lawyers.
 
 DBA president Prakash   said, “I was lucky to have attended some of the cases represented by Daga and admired his confidence and aura while he was presenting the arguments. Through the year-long activities, we aim to hone the skills of lawyers apart from continuing the legacy of the great prosecutor. Our basic motto is to help the lawyer community so that they can help people get justice. Numerous eminent personalities in the field of law, social work and other related fields will be a part of the series.”
 
 Jaiswal added that numerous events will be planned as part of the entire curriculum and lawyers and law students from different colleges of the city will participate in it. The events will start in the coming months and lecture series by the eminent personalities will be the highlight of the curriculum.
 
 Patron-in-chief   said, “The events are focused on helping the budding law keepers in improving their argumentative skills to strengthen the judicial system of the country. Taking inspiration from Daga, the events aim at bringing out the best in the lawyers and setting an example for the coming generation. His work model included brief but to the point cross-examination which is time-saving and efficient during court sessions.”
 
 Speaking about the great prosecutor, Gavai said, “Daga was one of the most inspirational and influential personalities of his time. His court proceedings and work ethics were remarkable and the young minds can learn a lot from him. His passion towards ensuring that justice is delivered was noteworthy and even today his arguments in trials are considered a benchmark to be followed.” Gavai also added that he worked with Daga during his early years and learnt a lot from him.
 
 
