NAGPUR : After the Nagpur city traffic police move to check and prevent violations, it is now all set to use   cameras installed at various intersections and roads in the city to issue challans to motorists violating traffic rules and regulations.

  
  “There is no need for you to look for a traffic constable at a junction before breaking a  . Our cameras will click you in the act,” confirmed deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Chaitanya S.
 
 On pilot basis, the traffic police started monitoring vehicle drivers on live footage provided by the city’s extensive CCTV camera network since March 29. Since then, the traffic police have also took snapshots of over 30,000 violators by taking screenshots from live footages. 
 
 “Presently, our team will be focusing on violation cases such as stopping vehicles on zebra crossings or riding a two-wheeler without helmet,” the   said. The traffic police department has started analysing footages captured through CCTVs installed at various intersections and roads in the city.
 
 The 3,800 plus cameras installed at 700 locations will keep a hawk’s eye on the city streets to detect violations and generate e-challans. At present, the traffic police are focusing on 66 locations and most of them are major junctions. 
 
 The superior cameras provide a clear footage, allowing the police to zoom in and capture pictures of the registration number of an offender’s vehicle. Later, these details are used to detect a violator’s address on which the e-challan are sent through India Post.
 
 Officials said the system would maintain a record of the vehicles’ numbers and issue notification in case of unpaid fines. Moreover, stringent action will be initiated against repeat offenders.
 
 From October 6, 2016 and April 2, 2018, as many as 4,49,568 motorists were caught on mobile cameras breaking traffic rules. Of them, e-challans were already issued to 4,15,024 and fines too were recovered from them. The move has actually gone well as many motorists started following rules. The number of two-wheelers using helmets too have increased manifold.
 
 
