NAINITAL:   on Tuesday while hearing a public interest litigation related to declaring Nainital city an ‘eco-sensitive zone’ directed the district administration to stop digging of roads between 8am and 5pm and wind up the work of laying optical fibers till March 31, 2018. The case will be heard next on April 2.
 
  The district magistrate, senior superintendent of police, additional district magistrate of Nainital district and executive officer of Nainital municipal corporation were present in the court for the hearing.
  
  The HC lashed out at the district administration stating that it is not doing anything. During deliberations in the open court, the division bench also questioned about traffic management arrangements by the district police and administration.
  
  “Till when will you be digging the roads? What about people who are facing inconvenience? Just because big corporations are involved, will you allow them to do anything?” asked the court.
  
  The 35-km Nainital road, now known as National Highway-109, has been dug up on both sides by various private communication provider companies for laying optical fiber cables to provide phone and internet connectivity.
  
  The bench also warned the DM and said that his work was not satisfactory in dealing with issues. “Next order will be of your transfer if you fail to deal with the issue,” warned the HC.
  
  Calling the local municipal body “good for nothing,” the court went on stating that the district magistrate will be solely responsible for implementation issues related to digging and completion of work till March 31.
  
  Citing problems of jam and random parking of vehicles, the court called upon local residents stating that it seems that they don’t have any discipline or love for their city.
  
  After the counsel of the petitioner brought up the matter of ongoing alleged illegal construction in Sukhataal area of the city, the court instructed him to bring the matter before the court.
  
  The division bench instructed the district police and administration to find solution for traffic woes of the town.
  
  On September 22, 2017, while hearing a   filed by Ajay Singh Rawat in 2012 with prayer to declare Nianital as eco-sensitive zone, the HC directed the Nainital district administration to find out about the vacant public parking spaces in the hill town available to the hotel association at the earliest to create the requisite software for the parking app that the HC had directed the hotel association to create in co-ordination with the district administration.
