Chitresh T, a Chennai  , who is just 16 years old is back in the city after bagging a silver medal at the Hong Kong Race Week in the Laser 4.7 class. Ever since he took up   quite seriously at the age of 10, he has won several accolades nationally and internationally. But he confesses that there was a time when he was so scared of water that he wouldn’t even go to a beach. “I first came to know about the sport when my sister and I read about sailing in a newspaper while we were much younger. Till then, we didn’t have any idea that this sport even existed. We found sailing quite unique and my sister first joined for training. I would go on a motor boat while she sailed. Once her trainer threw me into the water and that’s how I came out of my fear of water,” he reminisces about how his sailing journey started. Though he started sailing by the age of nine, he says, initially it was just for fun that he sailed. “Only after I went for a competition in Mumbai and came first in that at the age of 10 that I realised my true potential in sailing. Since then there has been no looking back,” he says. 
Then, in some time, he got selected to the Indian team and even became India’s best sailor in the Optimist (a dinghy used by kids up to the age of 15) category. The next big thing that awaited him was the Asian Games in Incheon in 2014. 
 “It’s all thanks to Pete Conway, who was my coach back then. He instilled confidence in me and made me believe that I had the potential to compete in the Asian Games. Back then, I was the youngest to represent the country in the Asian Games across all sporting events,” he says proudly.
 Chitresh’s recent achievement in Hong Kong has been the first international acclaim he bagged after he upgraded to the Laser class sailboats. He says, “It’s only in 2017 that I started using Laser sailboats. There were three of us from India who participated in this event in this category, and I finished on top among the three of us,” he smiles.
 Over the years, he has sailed in waters across the globe. Ask him about some of the toughest sailing events so far and he replies, “I found it really hard when I sailed in Netherlands some time ago. It was quite tough to handle the boat in heavy wind there. Though I sailed in a lake, because of the strong wind, it was almost like sailing in a vast ocean. Even the sailing event in Korea during the Asian Games was quite challenging as the underwater current was quite strong,” explains Chitresh. 
 So, what’s next? “Of course, it’s the Asian Games that’s happening this year. The selection process will begin soon and I am training hard for that. My coach, DP Selvam, has been very encouraging. I train eight hours a day — four hours in water and another four hours of fitness training,” says Chitresh, who has taken up open schooling because of his hectic sailing schedule. 
 
