Nagpur: After being kidnapped and gang raped by two men, an 18-year-old girl showed presence of mind to take away their mobiles while escaping. It helped the cops identify the culprits who had fallen asleep after getting drunk. In her complaint at the Jaripatka police station, the 18-year-old said that Shaikh Salam and Shriram Shribas forcibly made her consume liquor after tying her up, forced themselves upon her twice and also had unnatural sex. Both Kamal, who has a transgender girlfriend, and Shribas had previous offences against them and are at large.  The survivor is a first year college student and an aspiring beautician. Police said that the survivor left home and headed to the beauty parlour at Kushi Nagar where she was undergoing training. As it was shut, she went to a friend’s house in the vicinity and then headed to meet a male friend at Samta Nagar. After a tiff with him, they went their separate ways around 8pm. The survivor told the police that she then went to Automotive Square by auto-rickshaw. Here she was accosted by the two goons who were on a motorcycle. They forcibly seated her between them and drove towards Kamptee Naka No. 2. They went to Mhasala village where they raped her at Salam’s rented room.  She fell asleep after being exploited. After waking up at 4am, she waited for another five hours to make her move even as the two accused remained fast asleep. After managing to loosen the rope with which she was tied, the survivor left the room.  But, before stepping out, she mustered courage to pick up the mobile phones of both the accused and also lock the room. “I took the phones as proof as you wouldn’t have otherwise registered my complaint,” the survivor told the police. She is learnt to have walked for about 40 minutes to reach home and narrated the incident to her family who took her to the police station. The cops took her to Mayo hospital for a medical examination. Though doctors feel rape is possible, police have expressed doubts on some parts of her statement. A senior cop found it strange that the survivor did not resist or protest while being kidnapped. 