NEW DELHI: Netravati Chavan (14) was washing clothes beside a pond next to a stone quarry in Karnataka last May. She saw two boys enter the 30-foot-deep pond and struggle to stay afloat. Without a moment’s hesitation, she dived to save the boy. 

 She rescued the older boy Muthu (16). Then she returned to save the younger one, Ganesh (10). But a terribly scared Ganesh tightly held on to her neck, which led to the braveheart losing her life. Netravati has been posthumously awarded Geeta Chopra National   Award this year. 
 
 Nazia (16) from Agra, UP, took on a gambling and drug mafia and has been awarded the Bharat Award. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Nazia and Netravati are among 18 children (seven girls and 11 boys) who would be honoured for acts of exceptional bravery on January 24. The youngest among the awardees is six-year-old Mamata Dalai from Odisha, who fought off a five-foot crocodile to save her elder sister. “She saved her sister’s life, and is now very happy to be in Delhi for the first time,” her father Nirmal Dalai said. The little one has won the Bapu Gaidhani award. 
 
 The Sanjay Chopra   has been conferred on Karanbeer Singh from Punjab who, despite being injured, saved the lives of 15 children when a school bus they were travelling in fell into a drain near Attari village. The commerce student wants to become a police commissioner when he grows up. 
 
 The awards are given every year by India Council for Child Welfare. Gita Siddhartha, the president of ICCW, said most of the children came from faraway places and disadvantaged backgrounds. “We will take care of their educational needs and finance high quality private education for them. Since their inception in 1957, the awards have been conferred on 963 children, and most of them have grown up to become top lawyers, chartered accountants and professionals,” Siddhartha said. 
 
 Along with Netravati, Lokrakpam Rajeshwori Chanu from Manipur and Lalchhandama from Mizoram have been awarded posthumously. Lalchhandama lost his life while trying to rescue a friend from a river. His father, F Lalmasawma, told TOI that he was no longer sad. “He was waiting for his Class 12 results when this happened. But in his short life span, my son did what the family had taught him. My message to other children is this: try to do your best, don’t worry about the consequences,” he said. 
 
 Loukrakpam Rajeshwori Chanu, too, made the supreme sacrifice while saving two lives. A woman and her child had fallen from a dilapidated bridge into the Imphal river. Rajeshwori managed to rescue the mother-child duo, but was herself carried away by strong current. Her father Laukrokpamraj, who would receive the award on his daughter’s behalf, said the ‘Arung bridge’ was burnt down by angry villagers, but the government has still not built a new one. 
 
 Betshwajohn Peinlang (14) of Meghalaya and Sebastian Vincent (13) of Kerala would also receive the Bapu Gaidhani award. 
 
 One of the ‘general’ awards would go to   (16) from Gujarat. She had very bravely fought back a miscreant who had attacked her in her house. She had sustained knife injuries in the process, but had still managed to chase away the attacker. Sharma said that girls should educate themselves and that they should not fear anyone. “I want to be a doctor to help people,” she said. 
 
 This time, eight of the awardees come from northeastern states, four of them from   alone. Odisha has two awardees, while other states like UP, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Chhatisgarh, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand have one each. 
 
 The children would receive their awards from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while President Ramnath Kovind would host a reception in their honour on the even of Republic Day. As every year, the awardees would participate in the parade. 
 
 
