KOLKATA: As a part of a crackdown on taxi touts at the  ,   have arrested 21 touts in the last three days and slapped them with charges of attempt to extortion. The move comes after TOI on March 31reported about the tout torment at the city airport.

 According to officials of the airport division of Bidhannagar Commissionerate, at least 21 persons were picked up from in and around the airport premises on charges of public annoyance between Sunday and Tuesday for approaching passengers getting out of the terminal and coaxing them to take their cabs.
 
 “We noticed the issue and started a drive against the touts. We will continue the procedure for the next few days. We have slapped them with sections pertaining to attempt to extortion and public annoyance,” said Bhaskar Mukherjee, deputy commissioner (airport division), Bidhannagar Commissionerate.
 
 After the TOI article highlighted the number of touts at the airport and the way they operate, officers in plainclothes were positioned outside the airport. They nabbed the touts the moment they approached the passengers.
 
 Sources at the airport said three distinct groups controlled the taxi tout business: Kalidham,   and Shakti. Each of them have multiple touts and several cars operating under them.
 
 “The three groups have carved out the arrival zone amongst themselves. The touts owing allegiance to the Kalidham group get hold of unsuspecting passengers that exit through gates 1A/1B and 2A/2B. Similarly, touts in the Rajkumar group pick up passengers from gate 3A/3B. And those in the Shakti group operate in the most lucrative — international section — targeting passengers that exit through 4A/4B and 5A/5B,” a source said.
 
 All the touts are adept at profiling passengers and prey either on first timers to the city or on those from the northeast in the domestic section or Bangladeshis in the international section.
 
 According to sources, the Kalidham group has a fleet of 30 cars, the Rajkumar group has 45-50 cars and Shakti group has 40-45 cars. The vehicles, having both private and commercial registrations, are parked either in the driveway before a particular terminal or at the old parking lot next to the   bus stand.
 
 “The groups were operating with impunity. It is only since Monday, when the crackdown began, they have deserted the place. But make no mistake, they will be back once the matter cools down,” another airport source said.
 
 In the past too, the Bidhannagar police conducted drives to curb the menace after receiving complaints from government functionaries. But once the drive is over, it is business as usual.
 
 Sources said the touts strike deals beginning from Rs 990 for a one-way trip to New Market area. As the day turns into evening and then night, the fares shoot up to Rs 1,190 to Rs 1,290. Passengers arriving in late night international flights are fleeced even more.
 
 “If a solitary passenger feels the fare of Rs 990 to New Market or   is too steep, they offer a ride at Rs 500 provided they take on another passenger. Ultimately, they make Rs 1,000 for the trip that costs Rs 282 in a pre-paid meter cab and around Rs 350-400 in an AC app cab,” a source explained.
 
 There are also allegations that the Shakti group also has an understanding with the pre-paid booth operators within the terminal and bags all inter-state passengers, particularly Buddhist tourists headed to Gaya.
 
 
