
Filmmakers Anurag Kashyap and Aanand L Rai’s sports drama 'Mukkabaaz' stars   Kumar Singh, Zoya Hussain,   and Ravi Kissan. The eight-song album for the film which chronicles the story of  , a boxer from Uttar Pradesh, is worth a hear. You are left wondering about what deserves the maximum applaud — the creative music, the intelligent lyrics or the soulful rendition of the tracks. The album scores on all departments, almost equally. 
 
 'Paintra', the first track in the album (there’s also a 'Paintra Extended Version'), will stay with you for a long time. Composed, programmed and mixed by Nucleya (Udyan Sagar), 'Paintra' has been sung and penned by Vineet Kumar Singh and rapper Divine (Vivian Fernandes). Nucleya, who debuted in Bollywood with 'Let’s Nacho' ('Kapoor & Sons') gives us this vibrant track, which is replete with bass-heavy elements and clever rap. The soundscape of EDM combined with traditional Indian musical instruments and ambient sounds makes it striking. 
 
 The next, 'Mushkil Hai Apna Meil Priye', rendered masterfully by Brijesh Shandilya, is a delight, all thanks to Dr Sunil Jog’s lyrics and Rachita Arora’s composition. With colloquial words like, ‘Tum ho poonam ka Taj Mahal, main kaali gufa Ajanta ki’. There are more such kooky comparisons made with ‘patthar ka sil-patta’, ‘Tum AK 47 jaisi’ and ‘desi katta’. 
 
 The next, 'Bohot Dukha Mann' showcases that Rachita is not just a good composer, but also a commendable singer with a melodious voice. A classical music based track, this duet with Dev Arijit is a soft, pleasant song. 
 
 The retro-styled track, 'Chhipkali' with Hussain Haidry’s lyrics has been sung by   — a complete song where the lizard has been used as a metaphor for negative characters. 
 
 'Saade Teen Baje' is a rustic, folk-based track by Khusbu Raj and a posse of background singers. 'Adhura Main' has been composed and written by Vineet and sung by Deepak Thakur with only a harmonium accompanying him. 
 
 Overall, this album is a beautiful bouquet that presents a veritable variety — contemporary songs, raga-based ones and also, folk tracks. 
 
 
 
 
