GURUGRAM: One more   died on Sunday morning in Bhondsi. More than a dozen peacocks in different parts of Gurugram and Faridabad had died in the last 10 days, leaving the authorties clueless about the cause of deaths.

 Locals said Anil Gandas, a wildlife activist, rescued eight peacocks on Sunday morning from Bhondsi. One died after a few hours, but others are being treated at his medical facility.
 
 The peacocks reportedly fell from trees all of a sudden after they lost their balance as their legs got twisted. 
 
 “It was strange to see peacocks falling off trees like that. Some peacocks, which were injured after the sudden fall, were attacked by stray dogs. As we have never seen peacocks behaving like this, we immediately called up Anil Gandas, who has rescued many peacocks and wild animals from the area. It was very disheartening to see peacocks in such condition,” said a resident of Bhondsi, requesting anonymity. On May 9, the district wildlife department had confirmed the deaths of five peacocks and also stated that about 15 peacocks were found unconscious at different places in   and Hathin village. 
 
 According to wildlife department officials, the peacocks in Bhondsi fell from trees due to heat stroke and the dust storm that hit the city on Saturday, while a viral disease could be responsible for the peacocks that were found dead or unconscious on May 9. Blood samples of sick peacocks were sent to an authorised laboratory in Hisar some 10 days ago, but the results haven’t come yet.
 
 Shyam Sunder, district forest officer (wildlife), told TOI, “We have conducted postmortem of the peacock that died in Bhondsi. It seems that the cause of the death is heat stroke. Also, the dust storm on Saturday evening was responsible for its injuries. We are, however, awaiting reports of the blood samples to ascertain the cause of the death of peacocks that were found ill or dead in Negpur and Hathin.” 
 
 As a precautionary measure, the department has been spraying anti-viral medicine on trees and waterbodies to protect the national bird. The department, however, can’t start the right treatment unless they receive the blood sample reports, officials said. 
 
 Animal activists have already written to the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change over the delay in treatment of the rescued peacocks.
 
 
