BHOPAL: After the Madhya Pradesh government backed out following a stalemate on the nearly two-decade old tussle with Gujarat over translocation Gir lions,   is turning out to be a major bone of contention between the two states.

 Facing a drought situation and farmers fury in an election year, MP has refused to part with Narmada water to the neighbouring state.
 
 On January 28, Madhya Pradesh sprang a surprise to Gujarat by “politely” refusing to release 800 million cubic meter (MCM ) at one go to the Sardar Sarowar dam.
 
 With general elections to the state assembly scheduled later this year in Madhya Pradesh and looming water crisis in Western MP like other parts of the state, Shivraj Singh Chouhan government declined to oblige Gujarat’s request through the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) in January.
 
 You know one of the major reasons why Gujarat is facing water crisis is diversion of Narmada water in Sabarmati river, said a top official here.
 
 “It happened when the Chinese president Xi Jinping visited the river front last year, it was repeated when the Japanese premier Shinzo Abe had organized a road show in Ahmedabad and again when the prime minister Modi took the seaplane in Sabarmati to visit Amba ji,” top government sources said.
 
 “Recently the water has been diverted again to Sabarmati to ensure the flow of the river is maintained when the Canadian Prime Minister visits Ahmedabad on February 19,” he added.
 
 “Though they have been reluctant on the issue of Gir lion for decades, they did not hesitate in demanding lion’s share of 800 MCM Narmada water,” a senior bureaucrat in MP said, “adding we will fulfill our commitment by releasing this much of water by June this year.”
 
 According to Narmada Water Dispute Tribunal Award (NWDT), Madhya Pradesh is committed to release 14 MCM of water every day from Omkareshwer project in the downstream of Narmada. Top sources said seeking anonymity, however, Gujarat demanded 800 MCM water at one go.
 
 To release 800 MCM, he said, we have to release atleast 1,600 MCM – keeping in consideration the loss of water by evaporation, absorption, lifting of water by farmers with the help of heavy water pumps and also by several local bodies on the way. It takes about 8 hours for Narmada water to reach Gujarat.
 
 To ensure that the 14 MCM water reaches Gujarat, the turbines of Omkareshwer project are being run for 18 hours daily,   (NVDA) sources said.
 
 On the sharing of Narmada water, in 1969, the NWDT said, MP will get 18.85 million acre feet (MAF) of water every year while Gujarat will get 9 MAF.
 
 Sources said with 418.80 meters of water in Bargi against a full reservoir level (FRL) 422 meters, 252 meters in ISP against 262.13 meters FRL and 192.67 in Omkareshwer against 196.60 meter FRL, MP has enough water till June when the monsoon arrives.
 
 Water is being supplied for drinking purpose to various cities like Indore, Ujjain, Barwani among others from Narmada, besides its water is also used for irrigation.
 
 
