NEW DELHI: Dhiren Gupta, a doctor, says he takes antacid in advance when going for a party or function where there is going to be oily and spicy food, something he just cannot seem to resist. Soumya, a marketing executive, takes the tablets often for hangover after a night of merrymaking. “It works like magic,” she says. Rajat Sinha, a retired banking professional, says his physician prescribed the medicine to him once after which he has been taking it on his own.

 
 These aren’t remarkable examples. A large number of people buy anti-acidity drugs, often the most potent ones, over the counter. But this is a dangerous trend, say medical experts.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Acid is produced naturally in the stomach and helps to digest food. Using anti-acid drugs to neutralise it or block its production once in a while is good, but it shouldn’t become a habit. This is because suppressing acid production for long periods can affect the digestive system and cause kidney damage and osteoporosis. Emerging science is also looking at the role of proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) in gastric cancer.
 
 Anti-acidity drugs are mainly of three types: stomach acid neutralisers, or antacids that provide quick relief in the short term; H2 blockers that provide relief for up to 12 hours by inhibiting histamine, the stimulus for acid production in the stomach; and PPIs that produce greater acid suppression by preventing the acid from being secreted into the stomach.
 
 “Acid is needed for digesting food, and is important for limiting the growth of stomach bacteria linked to gastric cancer,” said Dr S K Sarin, director of the Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. Unfortunately, Sarin added, people are unaware of this and they   anti-acidity drugs frequently. “One of every five persons taking PPI regularly is addicted to it,” Sarin claimed.
 
 Dr Randhir Sud, who heads the Institute of Digestive and Hepatobiliary Sciences at Medanta, said anti-acidity drugs are more abused than painkillers. “Antacids and H2 blockers partly suppress acid for a short while, but PPIs suppress acid totally for long periods leading to conditions in which contaminated food and beverages don’t get sterilised by acid. I often get patients suffering from episodes of diarrhoea due to this,” Sud said.
 
 Dr Sujeet Jha, director of endocrinology at Max Saket, cautioned that long-term use of anti-acidity drugs can cause kidney disease. A study published in the Journal of the American Society of Nephrology in 2015 revealed PPI users were 20-50% more likely to develop kidney diseases than non-PPI users. Experts say the link could be due to PPIs reducing the levels of magnesium in the blood. However, there is no concrete proof yet of this. Some studies have also shown an association between PPI and osteoporosis.
 
 According to Dr Y K Gupta, professor and head of pharmacology at AIIMS, instead of popping   people should try to address the cause of acidity. “Excess acid production occurs when we eat very oily or spicy food. Fast food is a major culprit too. It is advisable to limit their intake,” Gupta advised. Lack of physical activity adds to the problem of indigestion, so doctors often prescribe exercise to deal with the problem. “Pranayam is helpful in acid control. The consumption of green leafy vegetables and fruits also helps fight  ,” said Sarin.
 
 
