Dune bashes around him as 21-year-old Chennai boy Sharan Sanjay accelerates his jeep through the sandy terrain. The vehicles that are behind his jeep, too, follow the same trail. They are just a few kilometers off Mahabalipuram and these peeps are on a one-day off-road excursion. Just as many other unconventional sports like surfing and ultimate frisbee that are popular in the city,  , too, has many takers here.
Arkaprava Datta, one of the co-founders of Jeep Thrills (a group of off-roading enthusiasts across the country, which started in 2005), says that the enthusiasm in off-roading picked up so well in the city that they later decided to have a separate Chennai chapter, called  . “It’s a gang of enthusiasts that includes doctors, engineers, pilots and other professionals, but a few of us are also into serious off-roading activities like vehicle and tyre testing for manufacturers, vehicle prototyping, etc. The off-road excursions that we organise are aimed at getting newer people into off-roading. But for them to be inducted into the gang, there’s an entire selection process that spans for about six months, where they’ve to help in organising off-road drives, take part in test-drive programmes and other similar stuff,” says Arkaprava.
 Lack of off-road activities organised by SUV manufacturers prompted enthusiasts like Arkaprava to come together. “Some of them organise boot camps once in four to five years. If I have an SUV and want to do off-roading, should I wait that long? Now, we do at least 40 off-road drives every year,” shares Arkaprava. 
 
 
  
 
 While having a jeep or an SUV is the only basic requirement to go for off-roading, it isn’t recommended to go for such expeditions alone. “Generally, at least four to five vehicles go together. These terrains where we do off-roading are quite tough. If a 1,000kg vehicle gets stuck somewhere while off-roading, it exerts 2,000kg resistance; if it’s stuck up to its hub, the resistance to pull it out may go up to 3,000kg. The more it is bogged down, the more resistance it will take to pull it out. So, we will require extra vehicles at our disposal during such hours,” explains Arkaprava, who organised one such off-road drive at Mahabalipuram a couple of days ago. 
 Another off-road enthusiast, Shyam Frederick, says, “It’s only been four years since I got into serious off-roading, though I owned a jeep even before that. When I joined Arka and others, they taught me everything from scratch. You need to know vehicle management, when to rev up and when not to, how to maneuver the gearshifts, etc. You have to imbibe different skill sets to drive in various terrains like water, slush, rock, sand dunes, etc. So, it is important that a newbie goes with a group of experts.”
 Ask Shyam if he prefers a jeep or an SUV for an off-road excursion, and he replies, “An SUV gives you more comfort — higher powered engine, air conditioning, better suspension. But I prefer a jeep over an SUV for off-roading any day because it is more rugged. We usually go to Palar river bed, Walajabad stretch and Red Hills for off-roading. All these places are ideal for this activity because they have multi terrains. A jeep really takes you into the terrains and you find it easier while maneuvering.” Sharan adds, “The cost of repairing a jeep is also a lot lesser as compared to an SUV.”
 Nishchal Raghuram Salian, an automotive engineer, says, “I work for an engine cooling system company and my interest in   helps me in my profession as well. Since I am into it, I really know what’s happening with the vehicle when it’s driven on tough terrains.” Sharan, who’s doing his automobile engineering, adds, “Thanks to my passion, I’ve an edge over my classmates. I learnt a lot of things on my own because I’m into off-roading. During such trips, my jeep breaks down several times, so I am familiar with the repair as I open it up and fix it myself.”
 
