Pune: A special judge here has convicted and sentenced a 47-year-old   to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for sexually assaulting an eight-year-old girl in August 2016.

 Special judge R N Sardesai found Wilson Singamani Dawson guilty of offences punishable under IPC Section 376 (2) (i) (n), which deals with repeated sexual assault on a woman aged below 16 years. 
 
 The court also convicted Dawson for sexual assault and sexual harassment under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and imposed a total fine of Rs16,000 on him. The sentences are to run concurrently. The court ordered that Rs15,000 of the fine be paid to the survivor’s mother as compensation.
 
 Special public prosecutor S G Gawali had examined six witnesses, including the survivor — who had recorded a statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) before a magistrate — her mother (the complainant), and the medical officer who had examined the survivor. 
 
 During the trial, the accused had argued that the prosecution did not examine any independent witness; that all the witnesses examined were ‘interested’ witnesses, so their evidence cannot be relied upon. He also argued that there were 15 other students in the class where the incident was alleged to have taken place, none of whom were examined by the prosecution.
 
 Gawali, however, countered the defence by arguing that the survivor’s evidence was corroborated by the medical report and the deposition by the medical officer, apart from the testimony of her mother and other witnesses.
 
 “There is no reason to discard the evidence of the victim girl. Her evidence is corroborated by the medical evidence on record, as well as her evidence is corroborated by her mother. Thus, the evidence on record is sufficient to hold that the accused committed the sexual assault on the victim girl when she was attending private class of the accused,” said judge Sardesai, while referring to the entire evidence record. 
 
 “Considering the tender age of the victim girl at the time of incident and considering the relations of teacher and student between the accused and the victim girl, I am of the opinion that this is not a fit case to show leniency to the accused,” Sardesai ruled on the point of sentence.
 
 
