Panaji: In an affidavit filed before the high court of Bombay at Goa, the government stated that the PWD has been directed to provide ISI-mark plastic tanks of 1,000 litres per family in wards of Pissurlem village, which are facing a water shortage problem.

 The affidavit was filed in response to a petition filed by Goa Foundation pointing out the water problem faced by villagers due to mining.
 
 As per the affidavit filed by director of mines and geology Parasanna Acharya, PWD has been asked to send the bills for clearance to the district mineral foundation fund. 
 
 The foundation’s committee visited Pissurlem in Sattari taluka on April 17 on directions of the high court. The committee recommended that PWD increase water supply to the village and repair the damaged pipeline laid 25 years ago. Recommendations have also been made for long-term measures to get lakes, wells and fields de-silted for recharging the aquifer and to facilitate land for agriculture use. The committee observed that “water sources have dried up causing water scarcity for irrigation as well as for consumption. It is seen that the agricultural fields are not cultivated for want of water for irrigation and de-siltation of fields,” the report stated, adding that the villagers do not have proper storage facilities and use plastic drums to store water. The committee also visited mining pits within mining leases and found abundant water in mining pits, which could be released to the village for agriculture purposes.
 
 The committee, which also visited Sonshi, has stated that the PWD has installed 20 water tankers at the village, and water is regularly supplied by tankers. “Seventy-five per cent work of laying of the water pipeline is completed, and meter boxes for tap water are also installed,” the report stated, adding that water tap connections are expected to be given within 15 to 20 days. The committee recommended that the work be completed on priority and that the panchayat/gram sabha be informed that they have to submit a proposal for the benefit of mining affected people. 
 
 
