MUMBAI: The state government on Tuesday announced the suspension of assistant municipal commissioner Jivak Ghegadmal for not taking action against an unauthorized building in a congested south Mumbai locality. He is in charge of C ward, which includes  , where the ground-plus-nine building has come up. This is just the second instance in recent history of a ward in-charge’s suspension. A civic source said Ghegadmal’s suspension could come into effect only after a departmental inquiry.

 The matter was raised during question hour in the assembly on a written query by MNS’s Sharad Sonawane (Junnar MLA). It was taken up by both ruling and opposition benches. Considering the cross-party demand for action against the building and the civic officials concerned, presiding officer Sudhakar Deshmukh directed the government to suspend the ward chief. Junior urban development minister Ranjit Patil assured the same. 
 
 The minister said in a written reply, “Mhada wrote to the   about the unauthorized building on Ismail Curtay Road, Pydhonie. The BMC issued a notice in November 2017, following which the party (builder) approached a magistrate’s court. The court, this month, asked the BMC to check documents before declaring the construction as unauthorized.”
 
 On Tuesday, TOI visited the building and found it locked.
 
 Ghegadmal told TOI, “We had received complaints about illegal work in the building and served a notice under Section 354 A of the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888 (see graphic). The magistrate’s court has asked us to give a notice under (the more severe) Section 351 after checking documents. This has been served and we are waiting for a reply.”
 
 In the assembly, BJP MLA Ashish Shelar, slamming the BMC, said, “What were local ward officials doing until Mhada pointed out the matter? They should be held responsible and suspended immediately.” BJP MLA Raj Purohit alleged that there were over 200 unauthorized buildings in C ward (Pydhonie, Kalbadevi, Zaveri Bazaar, etc) and all civic employees there were involved.
 
 Opposition leader Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil (Congress), NCP’s Ajit Pawar and Jayant Patil, BJP’s Yogesh Sagar, and Shiv Sena’s Sunil Prabhu voiced support for suspending the BMC officials concerned.
 
 Finally, presiding officer Deshmukh said the issue was serious. Minister Patil said, “As directed by the presiding officer, the government will suspend assistant municipal commissioner (Ghegadmal) and other officers responsible for the unauthorized structure.”
 
 Last April, municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta suspended senior civic   S M Dwivedi for alleged malpractice when he was assistant municipal commissioner of N Ward (Ghatkopar). Dwivedi had allegedly given construction permission on a plot reserved as a recreational ground at Sainath Nagar, Ghatkopar (west) and had also favoured a builder with additional FSI. Also, there’s an inquiry against two assistant municipal commissioners, Prashant Sapkale and Bhagyashri Kapse, on the Kamala Mills fire case. It was during their tenures that the two illegal resto-bars that were gutted in the blaze had come up.
 
 On the Pydhonie building, civic activists said it was shocking that the BMC didn’t realize that such a huge structure was being constructed and served notices only after its completion. “A ward officer and his staff are expected to keep a watch on illegal constructions, which is not done in most areas. When people complain, they are termed as ‘professional complainants’,” said RTI activist Anil Galgali.
 
 Civic chief Mehta said the BMC is waiting for the state’s report on Ghegadmal’s suspension.
 
 
