LUCKNOW:   MLA   told TOI on Thursday that the rape charges against him are fabricated and added that the   rape survivor was “tutored” to build a case against him. 

 
 He, however, remained silent on the brutal attack on the rape survivor’s father on April 3 by his younger brother Atul and his aides. 
 
 “First of all, the charges of rape are fabricated. I am delighted with the transfer of case to the   which will reveal two things: Girl was tutored to build rape case against me. As far as my arrest is concerned, I am going nowhere. Let the CBI take a call. I am open to narco or medical tests,” he said.
 
 Sengar said the girl’s mother had reported her abduction at Makhi police station in Unnao on June 11, 2017, and the FIR was registered on June 20. 
 
 “After that, the police rescued her from a house, rape charges were added too. Finally, when police recorded her statements under 164 CrPC, they dragged names of two women. But Unnao police never found their name. The girl’s family had some dispute against the women and thought I was involved in saving the two women — Shashi Singh and Nidhi Singh. Hence they included my name in the rape allegation as well,” he added.
 
 
 
 The police complaint of the Unnao rape survivor’s mother, which was turned into an FIR on Thursday, accuses a woman of luring her to the crime spot and keeping a vigil outside the verandah of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar’s place during the assault. 
 
 In her complaint, the mother accuses one Shashi Singh, a resident of Makhi village, of having lured her minor daughter to Sengar’s place where he raped her. 
 
 “When my daughter resisted, MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar thrashed her. Threatening her, he said that if she opens her mouth he would get her entire family killed,” the survivor’s mother wrote in her complaint. 
 
 The survivor’s mother has mentioned that the rape took place at 8pm on June 4, 2017. She added that born on August 17, 2002, her daughter is a minor and had completed her basic education from Rae Bareli. 
 
 
 
