Water crisis: Sector 19-A

 Chandigarh: Yet another summer when the city is bathed in  , life may be harsher down south but even the pampered north has started to have dry tanks.
 
 In Sector 19-A, which falls in this elite zone, people haul buckets to the first and second floors to fill their storage barrels because the water supply is a trickle and its pressure has dipped over the last week. Rajat Goyal of one of the sector’s welfare bodies said: “Since Sunday, the water supply is far too irregular and it peters out well before its earlier schedule of 8am. We are unable to fill our tanks on the second floor. Every summer, it’s the same story after tall promises of the municipal corporation.”
 
 Resident Ibrul Haq stores his water in the evening, “even though the pressure then is lower than in the morning”. “Somehow, I have managed for a week,” he said. “Every day, I store two bucket of water in the evening for the morning bath before office. We face this shortage of water every year.” Women have to wake up around 5am to fill the tanks, since the water pressure starts to decrease after 6am. One of these women is Neha, who said: “Every year, the MC fools us into believing they will get us a sufficient amount of water. As soon as summer starts, our tanks go empty and we have to store two or three buckets for the morning.”
 
 The evening supply is at day’s lowest pressure, while the morning supply is cut at 7am, two hours before schedule. Last week, the sector received water for just three days. For the other four, they either fetched water from the neighbours’ tanks. Resident Roshan Arya said: “For a week, I have not washed my car or watered my plants.”
 
 Box:
 
 Photo quotes
 
 Every summer, the water pressure is low. Despite my complaining to the municipal corporation two days ago, the water supply remains erratic. From a week now, we have hauling buckets of water to the first floor because of low pressure
 
 Ratan Lal Goyal
 
 For a week, I have not washed my car or give a single drop of water to my plants. The water pressure has decreased alarmingly and, coming in early summer, it is a major surprise to us, which has caused us a lot of inconvenience
 
 Rajiv Moudgil
 
 I am tired carrying buckets the top floor in order to fill my empty tanks. The water pressure has decreased for a week. Most people in the city continue to misuse and waste water. The civic authorities should take action against them
 
 Mahesh Diwan
 
 I have to get up before 5am to store water, since the pressure decreases after that. Due to an acute shortage of water for yet another summer, I have been storing water in a backup tank like I did in the previous hot season
 
 OP Sharma
 
 The MC makes tall promises of providing the city with a sufficient amount of water. For years, they have not delivered on any promise. They threaten us with fines in case we wash our cars and water our plants, but they still don’t have water for us
 
 Kapil Dhamija
 
 The shortage of water forces me to bathe with the water I stored a day ago. Some time, we have to drink this water, too, when the supply fails. I have to fill the storage tank with water hauled from the ground floor due to low pressure
 
 Ravikant
 
 Box:
 
 In the dock
 
 I was unaware of the water crisis, as I didn’t receive any complaint from the residents. I can solve the problem in two days. Being new to this department, I have no knowledge of what people have gone through in the previous summers
 
 Manoj Bansal | MC chief engineer
 
 
