

 
 On the Metro, in a bar or mid-conversation with your spouse, do you sneak a peek at your phone? And by the time you look up, 15 minutes have passed and the conversation has drifted as the other party is also tapping away furiously. Scrolling your phone screen even as you read this? Welcome to the club.
 
 A recent Motorola study on phone-life balance says 65% of Indians in the 16-65 age group feel the phone is their best friend while 47% would much rather spend time with phone than with the one they love. Around 57% feel compelled to perpetually check phones, and 77% are so emotionally dependent that they panic if they think they have lost their smartphone. The study was conducted among 4,418 smartphone users aged 16-65 in the US, Brazil, France and India.
 
 There’s no counter to the argument that the mobile phone has become an extension of the self. Ironically, it is also true that browsing, chatting, social media networking and 24x7 alerts thrown up by smartphones are cutting into the work and “me-time” of professionals and businessmen alike.
 
 Saugata Gupta, MD & CEO of Marico, never switches off his mobile phone. For the past 10 years or so, he has never been “out of office”, so to speak. He takes two or three short breaks during the year with his family and on these holidays, he gets up an hour earlier so he can respond to a few important mails and make some calls. The rest of the day, he checks his mails only once an hour.
 However, a few business leaders feel a holiday is synonymous with going on a digital detox. “In my view, a mobile detox is more important than heading to a health spa,” says Harsh Goenka, chairman of RPG Enterprises who makes it a point to check his phone only once or twice a day on holidays. At work, he says, he keeps his phone on silent mode in his pocket during meetings. At night, the phone is strictly outside the bedroom.
 
 Prabir Jha, president and global chief people officer of Cipla, is digitally unavailable once he leaves office. “My post-office hours are switch off times. Music, humour, conversations, reading, cooking...anything but office! And my weekend siestas are my turbochargers,” says Jha.
 
 Some organisations too are recognising the disruptive effect technology has had on personal lives. Many line managers now do not insist on immediate responses to emails during weekends and holidays. “We recognise that different people have different time preferences for reflections and emails in a globalised work eco-system. However, we (at Cipla) do not expect an immediate response. That takes a lot of the pressure off,” says Jha.
 
 Jha has managed what most Indians don’t — phone-life balance. Dr Nancy Etcoff, who teaches psychiatry at  , which partnered in the   study, says it’s time to honestly assess how smartphones are affecting our lives.. “Smartphone use can become misuse when it stops enhancing lives and instead diverts our focus from the people and the activities we value,’’ she says. It is one step from there, she adds, for misuse to become addiction.
 
 Etcoff says the smartphone industry itself should work towards weaning off users. ‘Time Well Spent’, a non-profit initiative of design ethicist Tristan Harris, is a baby step in this direction. Harris, who quit   to work full-time on reforming the “attention economy”, has founded the   and is currently working on “ethical persuasion” of technology companies to create less addictive apps and help steer users away from screens. Even   welcomed the idea and said time well spent would be a design goal for Facebook. Technology, he says, should be “on our team to help us live, feel, think and act freely”.
 And that includes the freedom not to immediately look this up on your phone.
 
