BHOPAL: Keeping their fingers crossed, cinema hall owners in the city are hoping for a last-minute resolution of the controversy over release of the film ‘Padmaavat’. They however seem clear on one thing— not to screen the film in their cinema halls on January 25 if the stalemate continues.

 Secretary of Bhopal Cinema Association Azizuddin, who earlier wanted to release the   film in Raj and Alpana theatres — withdrew his stand on Monday, stating that nothing was clear about the film. He said there is no clarity who will distribute the film. The   would decide on the issue as MP government too has petitioned to reconsider release of the film.
 
 “Karni Sena is threatening violence if the film is screened and the government is supporting them. If this was not the way, we could have thought of releasing the film with police protection, but not now,” he said.  , expressed the hope that the issue could be resolved by Tuesday as eminent film personalities have met Union home minister   over the issue and the apex court will also be hearing the plea of MP government on Tuesday. Besides, the issue of distribution of the film for MP would also be decided on Tuesday. If the issue is amicably settled, we would be happy to screen the film, he said.
 
 Owner of  , Vanish, which in normal circumstances would be the first in the city to screen a star-studded big-budget film like Padmaavat, said the film would not be released in his cinema hall. “After receiving a threat from Karni Sena and whatever we read and saw in the newspapers and channels, we have decided to not screen the film,” he said.
 
 Owners of Rangmahal Cinema also replied in a categorical ‘no’ when asked about release of ‘Padmaavat’. “I don’t need to tell you why we have decided not to screen the film. I can’t allow Rangmahal to be set on fire,” he said. Deepak Sinbal, owner of Rambha cinema hall, was the only cinema hall owner to say ‘yes’ to release the film in his theatre. When asked if he has sought police protection for ‘Padmavat’ release, he said “We inform the police every time a film releases.” Multiplexes, too, seemed to be undecided. Operation supervisor at Cinepolis Multiplex on Hoshangabad road,  , said they have not been informed anything about screening the film as yet. “There is no decision on the issue so far. We don’t know whether to screen the film or not. We may take a call on January 24 or 25 itself,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, aware that cinema halls are vulnerable to their threat of violence, Karni Sena activists are mounting pressure on multiplexes to not screen the film.
 
 On Monday afternoon, they were seen menacingly advancing towards a mall at MP Nagar, where   has its screens. It was the second time in past three days that the sena members were there to ‘request’ the managers of the multiplex to show respect for their feelings and not screen the film.
 
