MUMBAI: Amane   stands out from the elite women who will be competing in this Sunday's  , not simply because she is the fastest female in the field.

 The 35-year-old also comes across as one of the more voluble athletes from the African contingent who have, over the years, unfortunately developed a dubious reputation for making life tricky for probing reporters with their shyness in front of the microphone.
 
 Not Gobena. She was forthcoming with her views, albeit with the aid of an interpreter, as the leading elite bunch addressed the media here on Friday. The Ethiopian is a marathon veteran, having competed in the 42.195k run 20 times and finishing 16 of them on the podium. This, however, is the first time Gobena will be competing in Mumbai and yet, India is not entirely new to her thanks to a certain fascination she would reveal during a brief chat with TOI.
 
 "I like India. They show a lot of Indian movies in Ethiopia and I like to watch Indian movies. So I know a fair bit about India," said Gobena, adding with a chuckle: "I like the clothes the women wear very much."
 
 An Indian channel on the local cable network back home airs Bollywood flicks, without any subtitles though. But that doesn't stop Gobena from enjoying them. "Even if you don't know what they are talking, you can tell by the actions what's going on."
 
 While she struggled to recollect the title of any particular movie that left an impression on her, Gobena had little trouble naming her favourite actor. "Shah Rukh," she replied.
 
 The only time the conversation took a sombre note was when Gobena spoke of her disappointment at being left out of the Ethiopian squad picked to compete in the World Championships last August. "One week before we departed for the World Championships, they told me I'm not going. Even I don't know what the reason was. I was very disappointed," she said, acknowledging the setback as the lowest point of her career.
 
 It also prompted her to stop training completely for two whole months as well as turn her back on the national federation. But Gobena has come to Mumbai well prepared to have a go at the title, and with a personal best time of 2:21:51 which she clocked at the 2016 Tokyo Marathon, this mother-of-two could well emerge a contender to eclipse Valentine Kipketer's course record of 2:24:33 come Sunday. 
 
