KOLKATA: The   division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice   on Friday directed the organizers to defer the   rally to January 15. 

 The division bench presided over a charged courtroom drama when allegations were levelled that some goons had manhandled court-appointed special officer   during the Pratirodh Sankalpa Abhiyan rally. 
 
 At noon, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha counsel Saptangshu Basu told the bench: “In accordance with your lordship’s order, the court-appointed special officer went to the spot off Central Avenue from where the rally was scheduled to start. He was manhandled by some goons.” When the court resumed at 2 pm, Dutta was asked to narrate what happened at the spot. It started at 11am from   with around 100 motorcyles, he said. “At Coolootala, a mob suddenly attacked us. The windscreen of the car I was travelling was smashed and some shards of glass cut my hand. I stopped the rally for the day in accordance with the court’s order,” he explained.
 
 State AG Kishore Dutta intervened and claimed the special officer was never manhandled. “Police lodged two FIRs and arrested nine persons.”
 
 The AG added, “This was a politically motivated rally. The video of the day’s incident will show someone who is a political person, but not the petitioner, instructing the special officer. A political party’s symbol can be seen on the special officer’s car. We have, therefore, lost faith in the special officer.”
 
 Judicial magistrate Rishi Kureshi informed the bench that he was waiting near Swami Vivekananda’s house when he heard about the mob and visited the spot. When the counsels returned to court at 3.30pm, the acting Chief Justice told the morcha counsel, “In your petition, you mentioned that the rally would start from Swami Vivekananda’s house on Gour Mohan Mukherjee Road. So why did the special officer go to Murlidhar Sen Lane? This is a clear deviation on your part.” 
 
 The AG asked the court to direct the organizer to defer the rally till January 15, by when the Gangasagar Mela would get over. “We can then provide police assistance.” 
 
 
