CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court made it clear on Friday that Haryana government could appoint all candidates selected by its recruitment agencies before December 7, 2017, under the economically backward persons (EBP) quota.

 The move is going to benefit thousands of candidates who were restrained from getting state government jobs after a division bench of the high court on December 7, 2017, stayed a September 2013 notification of Haryana which provided reservation under EBP quota.
 
 A division bench headed by Justice Mahesh Grover passed these orders after hearing a bunch of applications filed by several selected candidates. The counsel for the applicants, senior advocate V K Jindal, argued that thousands of candidates who had completed the recruitment process before the December 2017 orders, could not be made to suffer. According to Jindal, a majority of the selected candidates had cleared the selection process but had not joined new jobs before the stay orders. Jindal had also argued that even the   protected the interests of candidates in a similar case in Gujarat.
 
 Even the Haryana government supported the applicants and sought the vacation of stay. Hearing this, the bench allowed them to join various departments.
 
 The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by a medical student, Kalindi Vashishtha of Panchkula. She had challenged the 10% vertical reservation provided by the state in educational institutions to EBP in general category.
 
 According to the petitioner, by providing 10 % reservation under EBP, the total reservation had increased up to 60% and the same was against the 50% ceiling stipulated by the Supreme Court in the case of Indira Sawhney versus the Union of India.
 
 In support of her plea, petitioners had referred a division bench judgment of Gujarat high court, decided on August 4, 2016, where Gujarat government’s ordinance providing for reservation in favour of economically weaker sections of unreserved categories was quashed. The same is pending before the Supreme Court, but it has not granted any relief.
 
 
