NAGPUR: Union Human Resources Development minister   has assured   ( ) that a few of its closed schools will soon be restarted as Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs). 

 TOI had reported in September itself that   Sangathna (KVS), the apex body, had conducted a feasibility report to rebrand and restart seven NMC schools. On January 2, NMC’s education committee chief   met with Javadekar at New Delhi and requested him to speed up the process. 
 
 Dive, said, “The HRD minister said that KV may start operations as early as 2018-19 academic session and that he will personally look into the proposal. This move will benefit thousands of students and will ensure that quality education is available to everyone.” 
 
 He added that this project is a brainchild of city MP  . “It was Gadkari’s idea to restart some of the closed schools through KVs and provide access to central board to everyone. Based on Gadkari’s suggestion we approached KVS and asked them to choose from a few of our closed schools,” said Dive. 
 
 Selection of these seven schools were also based on the requirements of KVS like having an attached ground, building and other amenities like regular water supply and electricity etc. Dive said “These schools are located in such parts of the city where CBSE schools are less in number. All CBSE (non-KVs) schools are under private management which makes it unaffordable for children from poor socio-economic background. Being run by KVS will ensure that not only quality is taken care of but also that it is accessible to everyone.”
 
 The project will be a collaboration between NMC and KVS, with the former retaining right and control over their land. 
 
 Dive said, “The administration will be entirely taken care of by KVS and our only role will be to provide the infrastructure.” The other aspect that will need to be worked out is that of fee. Dive said, “We will work on that aspect as well to see how it can be free for everybody as our vision is to ensure that every deserving child gets to study under this famed KV brand.” 
 
 
