KOLKATA: A 40-year-old man from Birbhum — who suffered a serious head injury — died on Friday morning after being refused admission at two government hospitals in Kolkata. Murarai resident Mirjahan Mallik was brought to SSKM Hospital around 1am on Friday. After a couple of diagnostic tests at the hospital, Mallik was referred to  , which also turned him away. Mallik was shifted back to SSKM and finally taken to  , where he passed away at around 8.45am.

 His family lodged a complaint with the superintendent of SSKM alleging that the hospital didn’t disclose the fact that there was no vacancy while tests were being conducted. Mallik’s condition had deteriorated by the time he was referred to another hospital, they claimed. “Precious time was lost as we kept waiting for the test reports before treatment could be started. But to our horror, the hospital authorities issued a stamped order which said he couldn’t be admitted as no bed was available. We kept requesting the doctors on duty to at least start the preliminary treatment, but they refused,” said  , a family member.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Mallik had received an injury on his head at his home after being hit with a blunt instrument on Thursday morning. He was rushed to a health centre at Murarai and then shifted to the Rampurhat Sub Divisional Hospital. The latter referred him to   and Hospital, which, in turn, referred him to SSKM.
 
 It was well past midnight when he was finally wheeled into the emergency section of SSKM. According to his family, Mallik had been falling unconscious frequently.
 
 “Doctors attended to him immediately but since he needed to undergo tests to determine the extent of the injury we had to wait till morning. The tests began around 5.30am and got over by 7.30am. He underwent a CT scan. All the while, we had to keep rushing from one department to another to complete the formalities. But when we sought admission, the hospital turned us away,” said Sheikh. The latter said he was taken to Sambhunath Pandit Hospital and taken back to SSKM on being refused. “We made a last attempt to somehow get him admitted at SSKM but failed,” said Sheikh.
 
 The desperate family then rushed Mallik to National Medical College Hospital. But he died within a few minutes of being brought to the hospital’s emergency department. Director of Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education and Research (IPGMER)   said he wasn’t aware of Mallik’s death. “I am yet to receive a complaint. Once I do, I will make an enquiry,” said Roy.
 
