None of the legislators representing assembly constituencies in   in the list of top 30 performers, a voter perception survey conducted by civil society research organization   has found. The survey also revealed that the top five performers are   MLAs followed by an independent MLA — Halady Sreenivasan Shetty (Kundapura), who joined   recently.

  
 Based on feedback from around 13,200 respondents — about 50 each in the 224 constituencies — the survey ranked chief minister  , who represents Varuna constituency, at 117 with a score of 7 on a scale of 10.
 
 “The primary aim of the assessment was to evaluate the effectiveness of elected representatives in terms of meeting the expectations of people,” a DAKSH spokesperson said. “The larger purpose of the survey was also to highlight voter priorities so that they are reflected in the election agenda and manifestos of political parties in the upcoming polls.”
 
 Pramod Madhwaraj, Siddaramaiah’s cabinet colleague and minister for fisheries, youth empowerment and sports, who represents Udupi constituency, topped the list with a score of 9.1 on a scale of 10, while woman and child development minister  , who represents Terdal, is ranked third (8.9).
 
 The second in the list is also from Udupi — K Gopal Poojary, who represents Byndoor — while the lowest ranked was S N Subba Reddy at 3.9, an independent MLA who represents Chikkaballapur constituency.
 
 According to the rankings by DAKSH, most of the 28   have been average performers with a score of six. None of them figure in the list of top 35 MLAs. The top performer in Bengaluru urban constituencies is S T Somashekar (7.9), who represents Yeshwantpur. He is ranked 37th is the list of 224 MLAs.
 
 Interestingly, home minister  , who represents BTM Layout, has been ranked 210 (5.7) and is one of the worst performers in the list of the legislators representing Bengaluru. Bengaluru development minister KJ George, is placed 42nd.
 
 Among BJP MLAs, opposition leader in the legislative assembly Jagadish Shettar, who represents Hubballi-Dharwad (Central) is the topper. Shettar is ranked 10th in the list followed by Govind Karjol (13) and   (14).
 
 Narayana Gowda, who represents Krishnarajpet in Mandya district, and S R Sreenivas, the incumbent from Gubbi in Tumakuru, are top performers from the JD(S) as they have been ranked 17th and 18th respectively.
 
 
 
