Seems like that moment when   took a shot at fellow actor   at the Women's March in Los Angeles amid the sexual misconduct allegations against him, did not go well with the some people. She was termed a hypocrite as the actress defended director   earlier amid the child abuse allegations against him, reported by media.

  
  
  While speaking emotionally about her own experiences to the more than 500,000 attendees on Saturday, Johansson said, "How could a person publicly stand by an organization that helps to provide support for victims of sexual assault while privately preying on people who have no power?"
 
  "I want my pin back, by the way," she added, in reference to the 'Time's Up' pin Franco wore at the Golden Globe Awards, which inspired five accusers to come forward and call him out. Although the 33-year-old actress didn't name Franco directly, a representative for Johansson confirmed that she was referring to the Deuce star, reported by media.
 
  Now, on the other hand, the actress, who starred in Allen's films 'Match Point', 'Scoop' and 'Vicky Cristina Barcelona', defended the latter and downplayed accusations of child abuse that have been leveled against him as "all guesswork". One month after Allen's estranged daughter   penned an open letter accusing him of sexual abuse in 2014, Johansson said "It's not like this is somebody that's been prosecuted and found guilty of something, and you can then go, 'I don't support this lifestyle or whatever.' I mean, it's all guesswork."
 
  Fans reacted swiftly on social media to call out Johansson for this dual reaction to incidents of same kind. One wrote, "Scarlett Johansson the biggest hypocrite that is there.calls out James Franco yet supports Woody Allen and would hem his pants if she had to.wow!"
 
  "Congrats to Scarlett Johansson for calling out James Franco and the harmful cool girl narrative but you still haven't denounced Woody Allen and apologized to Dylan Farrow," wrote another.
 
  "Scarlett Johansson called out James Franco but how many times did she work with Woody Allen ??? When it's about money and career, the times up movement disappears very quickly I guess," tweeted the third user. 
 
  
  
 
 
