NEW DELHI: The   administration has approached the Union food ministry to seek a return to the system of distributing subsidised foodgrain, instead of crediting the subsidy to the bank accounts of beneficiaries. The Union territory administration has claimed the beneficiaries are not using the subsidy amount to buy foodgrain. 

 “The chief minister recently put up this proposal before Union minister Ram Vilas paswan. The UT administration says people are misutilising the subsidy from central government. We can’t go back on the decision unless we are satisfied with the reason cited by the UT,” said a food ministry official. The official added that even as the Centre rolled out direct benefit transfer ( ) for food subsidy, the UT administration continued its scheme of providing 10kg singleboiled rice free per month to each family from the  . “When they get free rice, why will they buy grain with the subsidy amount?” asked the official. 
 
 The Centre had rolled out DBT for subsidised foodgrain in Puducherry, Chandigarh and   and   in 2015. A study carried out to assess the impact later that year had shown that 70% of the beneficiaries in Chandigarh and 88% in Puducherry felt the amount credited to their accounts was not enough to buy 5kg of foodgrain per family member, their entitlement under the food security scheme. 
 
 TOIhad first reported the findings on February 2016. Food ministry officials had said there were such complaints because once people got cash, they preferred to buy the foodgrain of their choice whereas earlier they had no option. To fix thismisutilisation, the food ministry had started a pilot to emulate the direct cooking gas subsidy transfer model for foodgrain PDS in Ranchi last year. 
 
 Under this scheme, the beneficiaries get the subsidy amount in their bank accounts and they have to buy the foodgrain from any shop with point-of-sale devices. “An assessment of this initiative was carried out recently. We are yet to get the report, but there are indications of a mixed response of beneficiaries,” said a food ministry official.
 
 
