In the latest episode of  , Jayanthi and Samanya discuss about the wedding proceedings. Samantha disturbs them. Given Surya’s psychological disorder, Sam advises them not to mind Surya’s words. However, Jayanthi and Samanya think that Sam is talking out of jealousy. So they don’t pay heed to Sam’s words.

 On the other hand, Surya doesn’t find anyone in the marketplace. He stands and quietly contemplates the scene. Meanwhile, a car mechanic reaches the spot and informs Adithya that he is waiting to handover his car. Finding Surya at the spot, the mechanic mistakes him to be Adithya. As he handovers the car keys, Surya realises it is a good opportunity to nab his lookalike. Surya asks the serviceman to deliver the car at his residence.
 
 Adithya who also reached the spot mean time witnesses the entire conversation from a distance. Adithya understands Surya’s move. As Surya follows the technician, Adithya slyly follows Surya. In an attempt to escape the trap, Adithya successfully diverts Surya car midway. Surya loses track of the technician. He thinks he lost the opportunity as well.
 
 In the next scene, Sam suggests Jayanthi and Samanya to re-check with Surya regarding the wedding (with Samanya). Buying her advice, Jayanthi seeks a re-confirmation from Surya who just returned home.
  
 Surya denies giving any consent to the wedding. He understands it to be the ploy of his lookalike. While Jayanthi and Samanya argue about this, Sam suggests them to give him some rest. Surya acts accordingly.
 
 Surya warns Jayanthi to abort the wedding proceedings. Adding to this, Sam tries to caution Jayanthi and Samanya that acting against Surya’s will can worsen his disorder. Jayanthi pauses her efforts.
 
 Meanwhile, Adithya introspects the knife attack episode. He doesn’t like Padma saving him. While Samyu advises him to stop acting against his true nature, Adithya declares that he will not change. Adithya states that he treated Padma as a doctor. Samyu reminds Adithya that he is a doctor and he can only give life but not take one.
 
 
