CHANDIGARH: “The last time when it rained, the entire main road of the village was flooded till knee-level. Vehicles were stuck in jam for hours and the sewer water was smelling badly. The shops nearby found it difficult to manage because of the foul smell. People at the end had to use mugs to throw water outside from their shops,” said  , a 22-year-old   resident, who, like so many others has been dealing with the adverse affects of choked sewer lines, which has become a grave issue in the locality.

 The residents of Kishangarh village have been facing difficult times lately after three of six manholes on the main arterial road of the village were found to be choked for the last three weeks or so.
 
 The manholes, which are located on the corners of the streets, beside the edges are prone to being choked every now and then due to the presence of sweet-meat shops, barber shops located above them, who end up depositing solid waste residue into the manholes, thus choking them and resulting in overflowing sewerage water on the roads. 
 
 Moreover, the underground sewer line, running beneath the village, connecting its sewerage diaphragm has thinner pipes which causes the sewerage water which is infested with highly rigid solid pollutants to stay out, thus stunting the flow and choking the pipeline. “The sewerage situation is very bleak here. Due to the dusty roads and a lot of brick dust, the sewer lines get choked every other week and the water smells really badly. But who are we supposed to ask for help? No one from the municipal corporation responds to our complaints and the Sarpanch of the village is also least bothered,” said Ankur  , a Kishangarh resident. 
 
 In last one month, as many as five residents of the village, who live close to the arterial road have gotten choked sewer lines unblocked from various locations by using their own money, which ideally the job of the Chandigarh municipal corporation. “A few weeks ago, the side of the road near the barber shop was choked, Hence I had to call the sewer workers and had gotten it to be opened. The digging and the entire cleaning cost me close to Rs 2000. We can’t manage these expenses all the time,” added Singh. 
 
 The non-maintenance of roads in the area is another problem for the residents. The central, arterial road of the village has been riddled with potholes, stones, gravel and bricks and have not been recarpeted for a long time. 
 
 Every year, during the monsoon season, the road overflows and the stagnation of water chips of the tar, leaving the street naked with gaping potholes. 
 
 “Due to this condition of this road, the road witnesses frequent skidding accidents along with traffic jams too,” said  , a shopkeeper. 
 
 However, despite several attempts the village sarpanch could was not available for any comments on the issue.
 
 
