GURUGRAM: Power   DHBVN on Tuesday said that the correction and augmentation work for the power infrastructure in the city was complete and would help meet the power demand this summer. 

 With more than 20,000 new subscribers, the demand is expected to exceed 300 lakh units per day — the highest in Gurugram so far. 
 
 TOI spoke to senior officials of both old and new Gurugram circles to take stock of the discom’s preparations.
 
 Officials of the old Gurugram circle said that every outage over the past few weeks had been scheduled. 
 
 “Scheduled means that there were legitimate reasons for the outages. We were changing lines, bifurcating feeders or installing new transformers. These works are necessary,” said Anil Goyal, superintendent engineer, old Gurugram. 
 
 Scheduled outages are uploaded on government’s Urja Mitra app, enabling consumers to keep a track of incoming blackouts and preparing for the same.
 
 Last year on June 5, Gurugram witnessed the highest ever demand of 288 lakh units per day. According to officials, the power demand would be higher this year and so feeder bifurcation work has been carried out.
 
  Feeder bifurcation helps avoid feeder breakdown when a 11kV feeder line has to supply power as per demand after it exceeds a threshold level of 250 Amperes. 
 
 “Also, we had nearly 1,500 transformers in old Gurugram. Over the past few weeks, we have added 150 more to increase the system’s capacity,” said officials. At present, Gurugram city has a total of 4 lakh and 68 thousand consumers in the two circles and electricity is supplied to them through 900 feeders. 
 
 Gurugram residents have been unhappy with the discom this year as a series of unannounced   hit the city. Officials, however, claimed the power infrastructure was finally ready to meet the demand.
 
 “Our line losses have come down from 17% to just 7.43 % this month. This happened as the Gurugram operational circle has been split into circle 1 and circle 2,” said KC Aggarwal, superintendent engineer Circle 2.
 
  “In my jurisdiction, a total number of 37 feeders have been bifurcated and nearly 167 transformers have been added.”
 
 
