NAGPUR: Independent MLA Bacchu   and three of his associates were sentenced to six months of imprisonment by a sessions court at   in   district on Wednesday. They were found guilty of assaulting a traffic police constable on duty in a tiff that took place about 20 months ago.

 Kadu and the three others were immediately released on bail of Rs7000 by the court and given a month’s time if they choose to file an appeal against the sessions court verdict. “I will certainly challenge the decision. For me such verdicts do not matter as my only concern is people. I will not be bogged down and even if lose membership of legislature, continue to work for public cause,” said the three-time MLA from Achalpur, after the court decision.
 
 On April 23, 2016, in a fracas that took place near the twin town Paratwada’s bus stand, Kadu reportedly picked up fight with a traffic police constable Indrajit Chaudhary (30) while he was executing challan to a traffic rule violator. After a wordy tiff, Kadu’s associates Ankush Javanjal,   and Dhiraj Nikam allegedly assaulted the constable who was on duty. A FIR was filed with the Paratwada police the next day and later charges were framed under Sections 353 (creating hurdles in work of government servant), 332 and 294.
 
 The matter came for decision at the court of sessions judge D B Pantige who found the four including the MLA guilty of the assault. He also imposed a fine of Rs2,000 on each of them but allowed them to be freed on bail. “I have a month’s time to file appeal and I will certainly challenge the verdict. I will also take up the matter in state legislature of alleged wrong use of section 353 of CrPC against a an elected public representative,” Kadu said.
 
 The maverick politician, who was inspired by Shiv Sena supremo Bal Thackeray’s aggressive style, started his career with the Sena but soon charted his own course. He has been getting elected since 2004 to state Assembly from Achalpur seat as an independent. He has also floated his own outfit called PraharYuva Sanghatana. Kadu enjoys massive public support in his constituency and fights elections on small change collected from people during poll campaigns.
 
 
