MOHALI: Incidents of gun violence have become the new common in  . Four cases have been reported in the past 15 days from March 30 to April 15 here in which people were robbed and threatened on gunpoint. All the cases have remained unsolved.

 From targeting a petrol filling station in   and robbing a property dealer to firing at a singer, miscreants seem to be having a field day in Mohali.
 
 On March 30, five miscreants targeted a property dealer at Sunny Enclave in broad daylight and robbed him of Rs 4.72 lakh and US $10,000 at gunpoint. The incident took place around 3.40pm on the premises of AG Properties and Western Union Money Transfer.
 
 A man had entered the office and engaged businessman Sumit Saini in a conversation when three other people came from behind and robbed Saini at gunpoint. They also took away his mobile phone along with the digital video recorder (DVR) of the shop’s security cameras before locking up the businessman inside. Though police have claimed to identify the accused, no arrests have been made so far.
 
 Then on April 2, a worker of a petrol station at Cholta Khurd village near Kharar suffered serious injuries around 11.30pm after being attacked by three miscreants, who fled with Rs 40,000 from the fuel station.
 
 Ashok, a resident of Himachal Pradesh, and his colleague Harbans Lal were sleeping in the office of the fuel station as usual. At around 11.30pm, three masked persons entered the station. Ashok and Lal started running towards the fields on the rear side of the fuel station in an attempt to save themselves. However, Lal was attacked by the robbers with a sharp weapon and was dragged to the fuel station, from where the robbers took away Rs 40,000. Kharar Sadar station house officer Bhagwant Singh said, “We have been working on the case. We had interrogated some people. But, no incriminating evidence was found from them,”
 
 Panic gripped Phase 3B2 market and nearby residential areas in Mohali after two youths fired in the air in front of a fast-food joint around 12.30pm on April 12. 
 
 After firing a single shot in the parking lot, the youths fled in a car bearing registration number of Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 Parmjeet Singh, president of Citizen Welfare and development forum, said, “Usage of guns to threaten people is on an increase in Mohali. Residents have started feeling restless and unsafe. The police must take immediate steps to bring the situation under control.”
 
 The latest addition in the list of incidents has been the one wherein the Punjabi singer Parmish Verma was shot at near his home in Sector 91 in a post-midnight attack on Saturday after which gangster   boasted about the attack on his FB profile. Police have failed to make considerable progress in this case too. 
 
 According to Mohali police officers, steps are being taken to curb such incidents. “We have started increasing the patrolling and stationing of cops on the ground so that police presence is increased which hopefully works as a deterrent.”
 
 
