The Janata Dal (S) of former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda appears to be holding the key to a hung assembly in the May 12 election to Karnataka as it gives a stiff fight to the   in several constituencies in the Malenadu (hilly) region.
 
  The party, which dominates in the Vokkaliga strongholds of Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan, Tumakuru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Ramanagaram and Bengaluru districts, used to be a power to reckon with in the Malenaadu districts of Chikmagaluru and Shivamogga. It staged a revival of sorts by winning two of Chikmagaluru’s five constituencies and three of Shivamogga’s eight seats in 2013.
  
  This time, the JD(S) is eyeing a further improvement in its performance in the region at the cost of both the ruling   and the BJP. A Congress leader from the region told ET on condition of anonymity that this might well happen given the “weak” candidates fielded by the Congress in several constituencies.
  
  “JDS could get seven or eight here, a few more in North Karnataka. Our candidate selection problems could give them seats, leading to a hung assembly,” he said.
  
  Even in Shikaripura, the constituency of the BJP’s chief ministerial candidate BS Yeddyurappa, many people consider the JD (S) candidate GT Balegar the chief opponent.
  
  Balegar expressed confidence that he would defeat Yeddyurappa. “I have done a padyatra demanding irrigation facilities for Shikaripura that Yeddyurappa didn’t bother to sanction, even when he was chief minister,” he said.
  
  “I am very confident of defeating him. When he came here (from Bookanakere in Mandya district) he had no network to support him. I was born here, my family is from here, I have friends and a network that will help me win. The Congress candidate cannot fight him like I can,” he said.
  
  A long-time Congress worker in Soraba, B Puttappa, agreed with Balegar’s contention. “In several constituencies such as Shikaripura, Soraba, Shivamogga rural and Chikmagaluru, it is the JD (S) that is fighting the BJP,” he told ET.
  
  “The Congress has been yielding ground to the BJP for the last two decades in the   and we have not done anything to rebuild it. But the JD(S) has and now it is a strong contender in not only these seats but also in Tirthahalli and Sringeri constituencies,” he said.
  
