New Delhi: How easy is it for an   to get his hands on a  ? Not too difficult. You provide   and a  , and a complete uniform set with a   is yours. At   in north Delhi, a   offered TOI a sub-inspector's uniform at  ,300 under these stipulations.

 The ease with which a genuine police uniform is available at the tailoring shops in north Delhi represents a dire risk. A day after a notorious carjacker was nabbed for snatching a vehicle in Dwarka while posing as a police sub-inspector, the cops are yet to ascertain where Rahul Singh acquired the police dress. He had been arrested three years ago too, using the same modus operandi while stealing cars. Some time ago, a former navy man was arrested for dressing himself in police colours while robbing a man of his BMW. He had bought the uniform at Kingsway Camp.
 
 The 20 shops there, where the cloth for the uniforms are either available or can be stitched, are not technically doing anything illegal. It is just that the procurement process is not fool-proof, even though most sellers claim reluctance to do business without proper identification. “We sell uniforms only to police officers. They have to give us a letter showing the SHO’s approval. Only after seeing this do we sell the stipulated cloth or stitch a set,” a cloth shop owner said. However, he admitted that there the approval letter was not cross-verified.
 
 Many shop owners said they had stopped selling uniforms without proper verification due to the extra vigilance carried out by the cops during the festive season. “Till Diwali, the shop owners were wary about selling uniforms and related items without any verification. One seller was recently fined Rs 50,000 after someone complained to the cops,” a tailor said.
 
 However, there appeared some who were ready to create a dress without too much probing. When this reporter approached a shop owner for a winter uniform of a Delhi Police personnel, he offered to have it sewn for Rs 1,300. All he asked for was a self-attested letter explaining the reason why the uniform was required. He said the cloth used would be same as used by Delhi Police.
 
 The shop also offered the winter uniform worn by cops, along with the badges and shoulder rank insignia. You could also have your uniform stitched in cloth used by paramilitary forces and as a camouflage variant. The cost of the uniforms varied according to the material, starting at Rs 1,300 and going up to Rs 3,500, depending on the cloth quality.
 
 
