There was no happy ending to this romantic comedy. Maybe, you are never given a dream without the power to make it come true. But ultimately an individual’s frailties or a Machiavellian twist could change the script.

 
 A bit of ‘carpe diem’ too as Gareth Bale came off the bench to ‘replicate’ teammate Cristiano Ronaldo’s bicycle kick, only on a bigger stage. His second, a dipping strike that a pathetic Loris Karius could not keep out, simply unleashed a gamut of emotions, of ecstasy and despair.
 
 With name and actions suitable for the role of a ‘fool’ in a Shakespearean play, Karius fumbled to Royalty’s delight. But for the common man, the neutral who yearned for a ‘fantastic’ resolution, this was a letdown.
 
 Real always win — that’s the reality, and the air of inevitability finally choked a   who was running on the fuel of dreams and energy. The Spanish giants’ inexorable march towards a hat-trick of   titles seemed like a prophecy. After all, big teams always make their own luck.
 
 Kiev refused to be another Istanbul — a miracle wouldn’t be one if it happened often — but it was the manner of capitulation that numbed you. Although the stakes were heavily in favour of Madrid, the final was billed to be this great showdown between King Ronaldo and upstart  . A condescending look as the teams were lining up to take centre-stage summed it up. But in the opening half hour, it was the destructor that pulled the strings, or rather, the whole nation of Egypt down with him.
 
 The backlash was soon to follow on social media. “Sergio Ramos is the kind of guy who’d unplug your life support machine to charge his phone,” was the joke doing the rounds. But this was serious stuff. More than 111,000 people have now signed a petition requesting Uefa and Fifa to “punish Ramos for intentionally hurting Salah.”
 
 “Sometimes football shows you its good side and other times the bad. Above all, we are fellow pros,” Ramos later tweeted.
 
 Madrid are winners, winners and winners.
 
 Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp said before the final even the Real bench could have made it to the final but this is ‘football’, anything can happen. And it proved to be so. German Karius chose to have a ‘brain fade’ and it was Welshman Bale, struggling to find a place in Zidane’s starting XI, who grabbed destiny by its horns. The   were blunted by Salah’s injury, although Sadio Mane kept the fire burning. Bale replaced Isco; Adam Lallana replaced Salah. The writing was on the wall.
 
 Still, “Allez, Allez, Allez” rang across the Olimpiyskiy.
 
 “You need a bit of luck in a game, especially a final. We not only had no luck but none plus bad luck. We will carry on,” was Klopp’s verdict.
 
 It was the manager who turned the doubting fans into believers, who asserted that the club wouldn’t replace their ‘best’ player Philippe Coutinho if there was no suitable boy. The ‘Fab Four’ lost their lead singer but didn’t lose their voice, settling down in an uptempo rhythm. Anfield was a fortress again, and Roma and Manchester City felt the force in the home legs. The away legs were painful, but the Reds always scored. Destiny was perhaps on Liverpool’s side again. However, Kiev was a bridge too far, for “strange” reasons.
 
 The tears came rolling down. “It is not the mistakes Loris made, we got to the final as a team and lose as a team,” said captain Jordan Henderson.
 
 A sobbing Karius did not disappear into the dugout, he offered his apologies to the Liverpool fans and now, he has to fight his own demons. It is a match he will never forget. Salah was inconsolable when he exited with Egypt’s World Cup hopes on his shoulders. It is a match he will like to forget soon.
 
 And for Liverpool, there are lessons to take from Athens 2007, not Istanbul 2005, and from the opposition team. AC Milan succumbed to the ‘miracle’ then only to rise to the occasion two years later. There’s always hope.
 
 If not this year, some other. Keep dreaming, keep progressing, keep building, keep believing. And trust in Klopp.
 
