Trichy: For long, people in the city used to feel more than content if the restaurant they went to served food in home-made style. Hence, it was no wonder that in most of the restaurants, south Indian and north Indian dishes dominated the menu cards then. Not any more. As time went by, and with the term foodie becoming fashionable across the world, restaurants in Trichy started coming up with food festivals and often international cuisines became the exclusive theme. Though a few such festivals initially generated lukewarm response, over a period the people started lapping up such initiatives. Currently, the trend has become such that even a pizza or a burger is not a popular choice as they have turned too common.  According to chefs and hotel managers, Jamaican, Mexican, Continental and Oriental cuisines are in demand in the city. In fact, over the past year alone, events like sushi party and barbeque parties have been held with aplomb. Even the ongoing five-day ‘Oriental Food Festival’ that is being held at Sangam Hotels has earned a good response from the public. Chefs and hotel managers say that it is a win-win situation as they not only see increased participation from the general public in such festivals, but are also being given suggestions to conduct more quirky events. Executive chef at Sangam Hotels, J Mubarak said that Chinese, Thai, Indonesian and Vietnamese cuisine were in demand among customers in the ongoing food festival. “Many used to feel that conducting a continental or pan-Asian food festival was only possible in a city like Chennai, but are now realising that we are at par with them,” he told TOI. He added that for the Oriental Food Festival, which will be held till Sunday, many ingredients were imported from abroad. On the other hand, chef Rajprasad Radhakrishnan from Red Fox Hotel said that restaurants giving more emphasis to ‘eye appeal’ during festivals had made a significant difference. “That was something we lacked earlier, but once we brought this element, it created more demand for food festivals in the city,” he said.  Radhakrishnan also claimed that food enthusiasts in the city were now showing interest in learning to prepare international cuisine. “In the few culinary shows I conducted in the past few months, people wanted to learn to prepare Mexican and Jamaican food.” The chef went on to say that several food clubs were being started by foodies in the city. Meanwhile, Antony Samy, another chef, opined that experimentation was something which people were particular about when it came to restaurants. “It is not that only exotic food is being preferred. Even if we dish out traditional food variety with proper research -- by going to rural places and getting the recipes -- they are being appreciated,” he said. According to him, Chinese cuisine is still the most preferred among the younger generation in Trichy.