JAIPUR: The   (JMRC) will soon introduce   for its passengers to provide last mile connectivity. 

 Passengers commuting between 9.25-km corridor (Mansarovar to Chandpole) can hire these GPS-enabled cycles after downloading a mobile app. 
 
 JMRC director of operation & system C S Jeengar said, “We would introduce smart cycles at our metro stations. These cycles will be available for passengers and residents and it can be used as feeders. Like Jaipur Smart City Mission’s public bicycle sharing scheme project, we would not create docking yard as it is an expensive affair. GPS-enabled cycles will be parked at our stations.” 
 
 The JMRC will fix Rs 5 for half an hour. Initially, these services would be provided at Chandpole and railway station areas. The smart bikes will be made available to those who take membership of the JMRC.
 
 “Initially, we would launch the services with 35 cycles. More cycles will be purchased based on the number of registration made for membership. The fee for the registration would be approximately Rs 300,” added Jeengar. 
 
 The JMRC has zeroed in Chandpole metro station as commuters can use these cycles going to Govind Dev Ji temple and   area after getting down from the metro.
 
 “Chandpole is the last metro station for commuters travelling from Mansarovar. It connects to Walled City area. After getting down, residents can travel in congested lanes of the Walled City by hiring these smart cycles,” said another JMRC official. 
 
 Similarly, commuters from Railway station, metro station can hire these cycles and travel to district collectrate and session court. “A basket is also fixed in front of these cycles. It also has a solar system, which would charge the GPS device. People can use these baskets for keeping their stuff too,” informed the official. 
 
 In second year of its operations, the (JMRC) is witnessing continuous fall in ridership on Jaipur Metro, Phase-I (Mansarovar to Chandpole corridor). Once the feeder service is launched at all nine stations, JMRC expects that the number of passengers will increase to 300 per day. “Metro runs for 15 hours in the city. If it would provide connectivity to nearby areas, students and other would preferably choose these green feeder services.”
 
 
