GURUGRAM: The Gurugram bench of Haryana Real Estate Regulatory Authority ( ) is issuing a new   to developers and real estate agents who register with the authority, to make the registration of property  . The certificate will be valid for five years, after which the property owner will have to get it renewed online. 

 “H-Rera rules will be engraved on the left-hand side of the certificate,” said H-Rera chairman K K Khandelwal, adding that the objective of this new certificate is to avoid   and tampering.
 
 Officials added a standard format has been prepared for owners to get their properties registered, which has also been uploaded on the authority’s website. Real estate agents and developers will have to fill up the details and attach copies of the required documents.
 
 Khandelwal said the rules for real estate agents will be clearly mentioned in the certificate. Mentioning a few, he said, “Real estate agents will not facilitate the sale or purchase of any plot, apartment or building, as the case may be, in a real estate project or part of it, being sold by the promoter, which is not registered with the Authority.” 
 
 “They will have to maintain records of all their deals which must be presented to the Authority for audit from time to time,” the chairman added.
 
 A fixed amount has been prescribed as fee, which is to be submitted in the form of cheque/demand draft with the registration form. One can register as an individual or as a company. The fee for an individual has been fixed at Rs 25,000 per property, while the same for a company is Rs 2,50,000 per property.
 
 Elaborating the details and documents required for registration, H-Rera officials said, “Property owners need to primarily provide their contact details, PAN number, address proof, along with their photographs. Particulars of registration as proprietorship firms, societies, partnership, company etc., are to be provided, including their by-laws, memorandum of association, articles of association etc., as the case may be. They are also supposed to provide details of registration in any other state or union territory, if any.
 
 After scrutiny of the application, if any information is found missing, the applicant would be alerted within a week. After which the application would move forward and a final decision about the registration will be taken within 30 days.
 
 
