JAIPUR: After the judgment upholding the right to privacy was delivered in the   last August, bank account numbers into which payments are made for   work have been removed from the  . A unique problem has thus cropped up – workers have a hard time tracking which account money due to them has been paid into.

 
 Social activist   who works closely with NREGA workers, said, “The bank account last linked to Aadhaar is the one into which payments are routinely made. However, there are households with more than one bank account who are now left scurrying to find where the money is going. And there are people with joint accounts who give the same account number – while one person’s payment is made, the others is not.”
 
 Bhambu explains that the number of days worked in NREGA is also counted as a qualification for access to the ‘labour diary’, under which some facilities are made available to labourers by the state government. Also, for inclusion under the National Food Security Act and access to pension, number of days worked as a labourer under NREGA is a qualifying criterion.
 
 Virad Singh of Barar in Bhim block of Rajsamand district said, “I am not able to understand why payments are not coming through. I am attempting to track payment since last January. I have checked all bank accounts my family has; I have checked Airtel Payments account too. I have pending payments for four muster rolls.”
 
 Kanwari Devi of Ajitgarh in Bhim block of Rajsamand said she was attempting to trace Rs15,000 that she had earned from NREGA.
 
 Another widespread problem Bhambhu points out is the inability of many households to access the full 100 days of work under NREGA. “It appears like there is a problem in the software. I have come across several families where work has happened, say, for 90 days this year. Now, they are unable to access any more work days. Last year, after some areas were declared drought-hit and number of work days under NREGA was increased to 150, block level officials who granted additional work days in areas that were not declared drought hit were penalized. To prevent such errors, it is likely that the software has been tweaked.” With one month left before the financial year ends, several households were hoping for a few more days of work under NREGA.
 
 Radhey Shyam, financial advisor with NREGA in Jaipur, said, “We have not received funds from the Centre for the past one month. I will look to the cases you mention of people not being able to access payments or work and get back.”
 
 According to the NREGA website, the labour budget for NREGA in the state is Rs2,200 lakh. Average days of employment per household up to March this year is 50.03, and average wage rate is Rs136.8 per day.
 
