How do you make Malayalam film industry a women-friendly place? And address their issues better? 

 'By welcoming more women into it – not just as actresses, but also as technicians.’ This was the spirit that lingered in the first annual meeting of Women's Collective in Cinema ( ), held on its anniversary.
 
 One of the main agendas of the meeting was a screening and discussion on the 1986 Smita Patel movie Mirch Masala, in which the women of a village rise collectively against a powerful abuser, in a situation where the men fail to react. The similarity of the story-line with the real-life situation in the Malayalam film industry is perhaps not a coincidence. Much like in the film, the discussions reinstated the idea that it is not just men who are the perpetrators of patriarchy but women as well. It was not just the fairer sex who were granted an invite to the event. From male colleagues and renowned writers and activists to members of LGBT community, the forum titled Punarvayana was inclusive in nature, with the WCC seeking everyone’s opinions on how it should operate and focus on. 
 
  “We are planning to conduct more such sessions across the State , with more of public participation. This is just a humble beginning,” said director  . Alongside the discussions, the forum is also all set to recognise cinematic initiatives that focus on women. “We are instituting an award — Bechdel Award — which will reward films where the women characters have at least two minutes of conversations about something other than men.
 
 It’s based on a renowned test abroad, and we are trying to see how our movies fare,” Revathi announced at the session. The forum also felicitated this year’s State Award winner actress Pouly Valsan for her performance in Ee Ma Yau.
 
 A question which has always been thrown at the WCC was raised here as well, as to why the collective restricts itself to more thought and less action. Revathi replied that plans are on the way to aim at action, but at the same time, added that all the members of the collective are involved in their work full-time, with little time left for families even.
 A point stressed on throughout the meeting was that it would be impossible for the WCC to solve all issues in society involving women, but it would strive to address those issues affecting women in cinema. Also, it has now become almost mandatory to begin any session on feminism with an apologetic “we are not against men’’ but that is not needed anymore, repeated many of the members.
 
 Except for actors like Roshan Mathew, and directors Siby Malaylil and Kamal, men in the industry were conspicuous by their absence at Punarvayana. “We had sent invitation letters to all associations and they did express support too. That said, taking part in a meet is one’s own choice,”   said.
 The members of the collective shared their observations on its journey so far, and what lies ahead.
 
 There is no history of organising for a cause, for women in cinema. Actresses don’t even see each other while acting in a movie and so there is little scope for discussing their problems. As actors, you can survive only through certain strategies, by being submissive at certain points and authoritative in others. Most discerning women in cinema live with a constant disdain for themselves. Cinema is also not a field which offers a steady income. So the only thing women in cinema can aim for is to ensure to provide confidence to those women working in cinema. WCC cannot address all the problems of the world. But It can make the discussions democratic, and bring the issues of actresses to the fore, otherwise it will become just a paper tiger. 
  
  
 —Jolly Chirayath, actress
 
 A film like Mirch Masala taken in the 80s, and set in 40s, is still relevant and will continue to be relevant. In place of the subedar, it might be an MLA who exploits women using his power. Whatever the issue, be it communal or political, women continue to be the weapons used to attack the opposite party. More than men, women are reacting today, and the WCC is an example.
 
 — M 
  K Muneer, MLA
 
 When issues crop up, it’s generally just one or two people who respond, from the side of WCC. I think more members should, especially because it is a platform with many who are well-educated and blessed with a clear vision about their objectives. I also feel you should gradually spread the cause of WCC beyond cinema. Speaking for the LGBT community, we have taken part in various WCC initiatives in the recent past. It is wonderful that thoughts about including us are arising from the upper strata of society too, which has been rare in our experience.
  
  
 Sheethal Syam, LGBT activist
 
 It’s our duty as colleagues and as those who live in this age, to support the WCC. On watching the movie Mirch Masala, and on seeing Revathi here, I’m reminded of my film Kakkotthikkavile Appoppanthadikal, written by Fazil, released around the same time. The film 
 didn’t have a hero, and it was released at a time when superstars were beginning to be created in Malayalam. Mirch Masala is a film which was far ahead of its time. It talks about a situation where women are forced to fend for themselves. The politics that the film talks about is clear and much relevant today, that women should protest, and at the same time defend themselves. Also perhaps that bloodshed is not the means for defence, but something within legal means.
 
  
  
 —Kamal, director
 
 I have had several bad experiences in my life where I have been a victim of patriarchy and slut-shaming; and have been isolated by society for reacting to it all. I reacted on social media at a time when no other actress did, back in 2012. Unfortunately, most of the opposition I faced has come from the part of women themselves. Patriarchy exists within women as well. So women have to change from within. The movement is not just external but internal as well.
  
  
 Himashankar, actress and activist
 
