LUCKNOW: After agreeing to put up joint candidates in   and Noorpur byelections, the Samajwadi Party and Rashtriya Lok Dal leaders have decided to share stages for joint campaigns after a gap of 14 years. The strategy is to woo Muslims and Jats from a single platform, thereby consolidating their votes. RLD vice-president Jayant Chaudhary is likely to meet SP chief Akhilesh Yadav soon to finalize the dates and venues of joint   rallies in Kairana Lok Sabha and Noorpur Vidhan Sabha constituencies where voting is scheduled to take place on May 28. 

  Last time the two parties campaigned together was in 2004 Lok Sabha elections. Then RLD was part of the SP-led state government. Confirming this, Jayant told TOI, "We would surely like to be seen together against a common enemy ( )." 
 
  Sources said that Akhilesh and Jayant are likely to hold joint rallies once Karnataka elections are over. In fact, a host of local SP leaders accompanied RLD's Kairana candidate Tabassum Begam when she filed her nomination papers in Shamli on Wednesday. Sources said that some BSP functionaries also turned up in a show of solidarity by a joint opposition. 
 
  RLD sources said that party chief Ajit Singh may not attend the joint rallies but is likely to hold separate meetings in various assembly segments of Kairana in favour of the RLD candidate. Jayant is already scheduled to campaign in at least a dozen villages in Shamli on Saturday. The joint rallies, political experts said, hold electoral significance in the west UP region which witnessed communal strife between Jats and Muslims after 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots. 
 
  "Their aim would be to send a message of mutual bonding between the two communities," said a political expert. RLD did not tie up with SP in 2017 UP assembly elections as Akhilesh chose   as his alliance partner. RLD chief Ajit Singh then decided to field party candidates in over 150 seats including east UP. As BJP swept the polls, RLD saw its tally reduced from eight MLAs in 2012 to just one in 2017. That MLA, too, has quit RLD to join 
 
  RLD had earlier struck an alliance with Congress in 2014 Lok Sabha elections but was decimated amid BJP surge. Even in Kairana, which was for long an RLD stronghold, the party candidate got barely 4% votes. 
 
 
