MUMBAI: A young dentist is fighting for life after being hit by a car near the   on March 24 while on her way to   in   to attend the convocation ceremony of her younger brother who had completed his MBBS.

  (25), an intern at  , suffered grievous injuries to her head and upper body as the impact flung her on the car’s windshield and then to the other side of the road.
 
 Police said Napean Sea Road resident Shikha Jhaveri, a teacher, was at the wheel of the car with her child in the passenger’s seat. The accident took place between 3.30-4pm soon after Lahamate alighted from a taxi and tried to cross the road. 
  
 
 Eyewitnesses said Jhaveri sped off but a biker, who had witnessed the incident, chased her. 
 
 The police said he managed to intercept Jhaveri’s car at the next signal and take her to the Marine Lines police station where an FIR was lodged. She was arrested and later released on bail.
 
 Bystanders rushed Lahamate to Bhatia Hospital in Tardeo. She was admitted to the ICU and immediately put on life support. Her condition showed little improvement for the three days she was admitted there. “The family is not well off. As the bill amount had already touched Rs 2 lakh, her family decided to shift her to the state-run JJ Hospital in Byculla on Tuesday. She has been on life-support since. We want justice for her,” said Dr N Andrade, dean of Nair Dental.
 
 Marine Drive police said the victim was talking on her mobile phone when the speeding Honda hit her. “The driver sped away leaving the injured person on the road. A biker, who is the key witness, followed the car and took her to Marine Drive police. She was released on bail as it is a bailable offence,” said Vilas Gangawane senior inspector of Marine Drive police.
 
 At the JJ Hospital, Lahamate’s friends and family are hoping for a miracle. “Her condition is extremely critical. She has suffered polytrauma and a brain stem injury, which is grave,” said medical superintendent Dr Sanjay Surase. A CT scan showed there was hardly any blood supply to the brain. At the time of going to press, doctors were trying to stabilize her vitals. “We have been told her chances of recovery are slim,” said Dr Pradyumna Khairnar, one of her close friends and classmate.
 
 Her friends recalled the enthusiasm with which she had been preparing for her post-graduation entrance exam. “Only last week she had said she was confident of clearing the exam in the first attempt. And today we are discussing if she is brain dead and if her organs could be donated. She did pledge to donate her organs in college, but we are hoping she will beat the odds,” said Khairnar.
 
 
 
