NAGPUR: Sudhir Gawande, 79, a former officer of the Indian Forest Service (IFS), who retired as chief conservator of forest in 1997, has been duped to the tune of Rs39.04 lakh. An offence has been registered against a Delhi-based gang at   police station on Monday. 

 The gang, whose members have been identified as Soumya Sharma and  , duped the former senior government officer by posing as members of a fictitious government agency — Bhima Lokpal — and promising Rs25 lakh as bonus on insurance policies.
 
 A gang with similar modus operandi was busted by Delhi Police’s crime branch in 2015. The gang, which had cheated an Army Brigadier too, used to target senior government officials claiming that they were calling on behalf Bima Lokpal, a fictitious central government agency dealing in insurance policies to ensure benefits to deserving customers. 
 
 In the latest case, a woman identifying herself as Soumya had called Gawande in December 2015 claiming that an amount of Rs 25 lakh bonus has been allotted to him but he needs to pay Rs 2.5 lakh as service tax to claim it. As per further instructions, on January 25, 2016, Gawande deposited the amount at Surendra Nagar branch of State Bank of India (SBI) in the accounts of one Abhishek Tyagi and another Sunil Kumar. 
 
 Even as Gawande was waiting for the ‘bonus amount’ to be deposited in his account for nearly two months, Soumya and her accomplice Satyaprakash, Savitri Gehlot, Sundar Kakkad and another person posing as an IT expert   remained in regular touch with him and cited some technical reasons for the delay in amount disbursal. In the meantime, Gawande received a phone call from a person posing as SBI branch manager Rajesh Verma from Lucknow who too convinced him about the money.
 
 The fluency with which the tricksters mimicked the styles of banking employees made Gawande believe that the calls and assurances were genuine.
 
 The tricksters later hoodwinked Gawande by sending him a cheque for Rs18 lakh drawn on Axis Bank in September 2016. The fraudsters also claimed that an account in the name of Gawande has been opened in Bank of Baroda’s New Delhi branch where the money has been deposited. When Gawande deposited the cheque, it bounced. When he enquired about it, the tricksters convinced Gawande that as his ‘bonus amount’ has got doubled to Rs50 lakh, the earlier cheque bounced. The tricksters then asked Gawande to deposit another Rs9 lakh as service tax to claim the ‘bonus’. The gang made Gawande cough up as much as Rs24.57 lakh within a few months in 2016 and 2017.
 
 Simultaneously, Gawande started getting calls from fake insurance representatives claiming that he has been allotted benefits of Rs3.28 lakh but for which he was required to pay Rs1.65 lakh as various taxes and surcharges. The fake representatives of different insurance companies too left him poorer by Rs14 lakh over a period of one year by convincing him to deposit amounts under various pretexts in different accounts.
 
 
