AHMEDABAD/ SURAT: Despite being assured security by  , at least eight multiplexes in Ahmedabad and others in the state will not screen “Padmaavat”. Theatre owners said the decision was taken in the interest of security of the public and their property.

 Senior police officials went to movie theatres to assess security arrangements. K L N  , special commissioner of police, Sector-I, said, “All malls and multiplexes in western Ahmedabad – irrespective of whether they screen Padmaavat – have been given security cover. DCPs have been asked to supervise security arrangements in their respective areas. Each theatre has been given static security of one police sub-inspector and a platoon (approximately 25 armed personnel) of the   (SRP),” he said.
 
  
  The move, however, failed to instil confidence in theatre-owners as several of them will not show the film. “Certain multiplexes have decided to not show Padmaavat, in the interest of safety of people and to prevent damage to property. We will also not screen the film at our theatre,” said Manubhai Patel, president of the   Multiplex Association (GMA).
 
 Authorities at multiplexes including   (Ashram Road/ Shyamal Crossroads/ Motera/ Bopal-Ambli Road/ Bapunagar), Devi Multiplex in Naroda, Wide Angle on SG Highway and AB Miniplex near   in Ahmedabad, confirmed that they will not be showing Padmaavat.
 
 Some pasted notices outside their multiplexes, stating they will not screen the film, promotional material or even trailers. “Ours is a new property and we do not want to risk damage to our property or compromise public safety. We’ve also put up a notice outside our premises saying we won’t screen the film,” said Bharat Murli, one of the directors of AB Miniplex.
 
 This was true for several multiplexes across the state, including one each in Viramgam and Mehsana, and several in Surat. The Surat district collector Mahendra Patel and met the owners of 21 multiplexes in Surat. The collector offered them security if they were going to screen the film.
 
 On the other hand, most multiplexes affiliated to national cinema chains decided to go ahead and screen Padmaavat, but they also sought police protection. The Shree Rashtriya Rajput Karni Sena (SRRKS), which ostensibly urged its karyakartas to make peaceful protests, was irked by the decision by certain multiplexes to screen the film.
 
 “We’ve remained peaceful so far but we know well how to protect our rights. When GMA members have refrained from screening the film, why are others prepared to screen it. We will show our strength on Thursday if the film is screened,” said Raj Shekhawat, president of the Gujarat chapter of SRRKS.
 
 Protests by Rajput oufits continued at various parts of the state. Nearly half of state transport buses originating from places in North Gujarat such as Mehsana, Banaskantha and Sabarkantha, remained off the roads, fearing attacks by agitators.
 
 
