

 
 
  ( ) are typically divided into principal (the amount you took as loan) and interest (the cost of servicing the loan). Principal is allowed as a deduction from your gross total income (subject to an overall cap with other eligible investments of 1.5 lakh)
 
 
 
 Interest payable on ‘self-occupied’ property is subject to a maximum deduction of 2 lakh under the head ‘Income from House Property’. This reduces your total tax liability. But to claim this, acquisition or construction should be completed within 5 years from the end of the financial year in which the loan was taken. If not, the deduction will be limited to 30,000.
 
 
 
 If you have rented out your property, the difference between the rent you get after adjustment of municipal taxes, standard deduction and interest on housing loan is your ‘loss’. For example, if the annual rent is 5 lakh, after considering standard deduction @30% of gross value (which is generally rent), 3.5 lakh is your loss. As per   Act 2017 amendment, you can set off only 2 lakh of such loss against your other income, say salary. The balance (surplus loss of 1.5 lakh), can be carried forward over eight years. However, it can only be set off against your rental income.
 
 
 
 1. It makes tax sense to purchase the new apartment jointly – say with your spouse, then both of you are entitled to a deduction of 2 lakh each for interest. In case you have a working son/daughter and the bank is willing to split the loan three ways, all three can avail deduction up to 2 lakh each on self- occupied property 
 
 2. A ready-to-move flat could cost more. Booking an under-construction flat may work out cheaper as I-T laws permit you to claim the total interest paid during the predelivery period as a deduction in five equal instalments starting from the financial year in which the construction was completed or you acquired your apartment (generally this denotes the date of possession). Of course, the maximum you can claim as a deduction per year continues to be 2 lakh, in case of selfoccupied property.
 
 3. Interest on a loan taken from an employer, friend, or even private lender is eligible for deduction, but you should obtain a certificate from the lender. Note that principal repayment is not eligible for deduction under 80C 
 
 4. Expense incurred towards repair and maintenance are not allowed as a deduction from income from  . However, a standard deduction @ 30% of gross value (which is generally the rent received) is allowed to compensate for repair and maintenance expenses of a let-out house property. Also, municipal taxes paid during the financial year is allowed as a deduction 
 
 5. It’s best to rent out your second home from an I-T perspective. If you have not let it out, it will still attract tax on its expected market rent (known as deemed value). It’s better to pay tax on rent which you actually earn
 
 
 
 If you invest in the capital market there is bad news in store. Capital gains in excess of 1 lakh arising on sale of listed shares or units of equity-oriented mutual funds held for over 12 months will be taxable at a concessional rate of 10% without indexation benefit.
 
 
 
 Capital gain on sale of all listed securities in India mentioned above (other than debtoriented MFs), held for more than 12 months are treated as LTCG. Unlisted securities in India and immovable property have to be held for more than 24 months to qualify for LTCG. In all other types of capital assets, including debt-oriented MFs, sale post 36 months will qualify as LTCG.
 
 
 
 When securities (listed/ equity-oriented MF/zero coupon bonds) are held for up to a year, the gain is treated as STCG. For all other type of capital assets, holding up to 24/36 months will qualify as STCG.
 
 
 
 • Loss from transfer of a long-term capital asset can be set off against gain from transfer of any other long-term capital asset in the same year. But, long-term capital loss cannot be set off against short-term capital gains.
 
 • Loss from transfer of a short-term capital asset can be set off against gain from transfer of any other capital asset in the same year.
 
 • Any   after absorption in the same year can be further carried forward to next eight years and be utilised under the same conditions as above.
 
 • You should file your I-T return before July 31 to carry forward any losses.
 
