CUTTACK: Notorious gangster   will be shifted from   in Bhubaneswar to  .

 The judicial magistrate first class court here on Thursday allowed   seeking permission to shift the gangster from Bhubaneswar to Bolangir jail. 
 
 The police had made the prayer to shift the gangster to some other jail in the state from Jharpada after it was found that Sushant was running his criminal activities with ease from the jail. A contractor in Cuttack,   was attacked on February 23 in which he escaped unhurt. During investigation of the case, police found that Sushant had hatched conspiracy to eliminate Pal and three other contractors, from inside the jail as they were not paying extortion money to him. The police also found that Sushant had hired a history sheeter, with whom he came in contact in Jharpada jail, to kill Pal. 
 
 “We had cited in our plea that as Bhubaneswar is located near Cuttack, which was the hub of his criminal activities, he is easily managing to plan and execute different crimes. Besides, many aides of Sushant are also lodged in Jharpada jail. So to ensure law and order situation in Cuttack we had prayed to shift him to some other jail and court allowed our plea,” said government counsel, Biswajit Baral. However, the court has not mentioned any specific date on which the gangster will be shifted to Bolangir.
 
 “Police need to make some arrangement to shift Sushant from Bhubaneswar to Bolangir. The shifting will be done at the earliest,” added Baral.
 
 The order has come as a huge relief for the police and jail department. This is for the second time the gangster will be shifted from a jail to another. Sushant and his younger brother Sushil were arrested in January 2016 and initially lodged at Choudwar jail in Cuttack. In 2016, police had made prayer in Court to keep the two gangster brothers in two different jails in the state as it was not safe to keep the duo in a single jail. Hearing the plea, the court had then allowed commissionerate police to keep Sushil in Balasore jail and Sushant at Jharpada jail. 
 
