PILIBHIT: Tension prevailed in Pilibhit’s   village under   police station on Friday, the first day of Ramzan, after a religious structure was found vandalized. An FIR has been lodged against four members of a community following a written complaint.
 
  For years, the location of the religious structure has been the bone of contention between two communities at the village. The structure is located in the middle of an agricultural field owned by a rice miller’s family. Devotees who visit the religious place trample over the cropped field of the present owner.
  
  Last year too, the structure had been damaged and the rice miller had been sent to jail, police said. The caretaker of the religious structure named four people for vandalizing the structure.
  
  Tehsildar of   Anand Prakash Rai told TOI that the religious structure was situated in an agricultural field belonging to the rice miller’s family. The previous owner, a former MLA from Puranpur, Harish Chandra Khandelwal, had donated four ‘dismal’ area for the religious structure 30 years ago.
  
  Despite executing a donation deed, Khandelwal failed to get this document enlisted in official revenue records. Later, he sold the land to the rice miller. As the religious structure is in the middle of his field, devotees have to pass through the cropped area, the revenue officer said.
  
  On learning about the incident, senior police officers, including SP, ASP and CO rushed to the spot. Police force from four police stations were deployed at the village in addition to quick response teams and Provincial Armed Constabulary personnel to maintain peace.
  
  District magistrate Akhilesh Kumar   said he had directed SDM of Puranpur JP Chauhan to hold a meeting with both sides in the presence of eminent people of Puranpur to find an amicable solution to the dispute.
  
  Police have booked four persons under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 295 (injuring or defiling place of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace).
  
  Superintendent of police Balendu Bhushan Singh said he was closely monitoring the situation and the matter was being probed. However, no one would be allowed to disrupt peace, he warned.
  
  Meanwhile, district president of the gram pradhan sangh as well as Akhil Bharatiya Brahman Yuvjan Sabha Ashotosh Dixit and his supporters met DM Mishra on Friday and said the FIR had been registered against innocent people.
