The first Indian garden to be shown at   has been awarded a silver gilt medal, the second highest award.

 
 Eberle planted her garden with multi-coloured flowers to reflect “the vibrancy of India", she said. She chose plants "associated with British explorers in India" such as Himalayan blue poppies and blue orchids to represent the colour of the Indian cricket jersey.
 
 The award-winning designer had never seen a cricket match or stepped foot in India when she designed the first ever India garden and the first ever cricket-themed display in the Royal Horticultural Society event’s 105-year history. "It was an extremely challenging garden from a design point of view. I never thought I could pull it off," she said.
 
 Landscape students   from Kolkata and Anuprathna Ravichand from Coimbatore flew to the UK to helped Eberle build the garden during its nine-day preparation period for Chelsea. 
 
  
  
 
 As a legacy project the British Council, which commissioned the garden, will roll out a programme to schools in India from September, teaching cricket and dance moves to 100,000 pupils aged 10 to 12, to challenge gender stereotypes and encourage boys and girls to play together. "I think there is increasing interest in horticulture and growing opportunities for garden designers in India," Alan Gemmell OBE, director India, British Council, said.
 
 “For PM Modi, women-led development is a big priority. We want to use sport to encourage women to fulfil their potential."
 
 Other gardens on display at this year’s show include a garden reflecting the journey of a person living with HIV, one that highlights the impact of plastic on the oceans, one inspired by a refugee camp in Iraq, and a garden made up of the natural ingredients used in a bottle of gin. 
 
 Chelsea Flower Show is the world’s most famous flower show when celebrities, the British royal family, socialities and gardeners descend on the Royal Hospital Chelsea to view a variety of gardens designed by some of the greatest designers and floral artists in the world.
 
 
