CHENNAI: Every  , people gather at Shanthi Ulhas’ residence in  . Her spacious car park is transformed into an organic farmers’ market where you can pick up everything from indigenous varieties of rice and dal to groundnuts and Himalayan rock salt.

 Shanthi and her husband Ulhas are part of the network hosting Safe Food Sundays, an initiative launched three months ago by Organic Farmers Market (OFM), a collective of organic farming enthusiasts to make their products more accessible to people across the city. 
 
 “We started with organic stores, with reStore in   being launched in 2006. Then, four years ago, we had a series of stores as part of OFM; they are all small hole-in-the wall shops that have come up across the city to cater to the middle class,” says Ananthoo, one of the founders of OFM.
 
 Though there are 15 such shops in the city, there were a lot of requests from people who wanted such outlets in their neighbourhoods, says Ananthoo. 
 
 “They specifically wanted products from OFM. So, as an experiment, we asked them to identify spaces where we could sell the products,” he says.
 
 On Sundays, from 10am to 2pm stalls are put up at the Ulhas’ car park in Mahalingapuram. 
 
 “We have a WhatsApp group where we post details of the Sunday market and people from the colony as well as from other parts of the city, such as Saidapet and Santhome, come to pick up the products,” says Shanthi, who is also the president of the Mahalingapuram residents’ welfare association.
 
 The stalls sell a variety of products — dals, indigenous as well as aromatic varieties of rice, sweeteners like jaggery and palm jaggery, groundnuts, Himalayan rock salt and unprocessed sea salt.
 
  “I used to bring vegetable from reStore home and sell it in my apartment. A few other volunteers and I thought of taking it to places where people can access these products more easily,” says homemaker Sujatha Arun, who volunteers with OFM and is also part of the Safe Food Sunday initiative. On Sunday evenings, from 4pm to 7pm, the bazaar is hosted in another courtyard-cum-cark park in  , T Nagar. “People need to bring their own bags as well as steel or glass containers for the cold pressed oils,” says Sujatha.
 
 With word spreading, other neighbourhoods are also eager to host the Sunday  . 
 
 “In February, we will start in   and later in   and  ,” says Ananthoo.
 
 
