Mangaluru: When MP   dedicated the victory of   candidates in 7out of 8 seats in Dakshina Kannada to “Hindu martyrs”; two candidates, who were elected for the first time, went one step ahead and met families who were victims of the recent communally-inspired murders.

 To show solidarity, they also offered tributes to the deceased and dedicated their victories to them.
 
 Dr Y Bharath Shetty, who defeated B Mohiuddin Bava of the Congress from Mangaluru North, rushed after the results were announced, to slain right-wing activist Deepak Rao’s house in Katipalla, Surathkal, on Tuesday. Shetty, after meeting Deepak’s mother Premalatha Rao, offered floral tributes to the deceased activist, along with other party workers.
 
 Deepak Rao, 28, who was a marketing executive,who was brutally   in January.
 
 Meanwhile, U Rajesh Naik, who defeated Congress leader B Ramanath Rai from Bantwal constituency, visited the kin of murdered RSS activist  . Madivala was murdered by bike-borne assailants on July 4 last year. Sharath is a resident of Sajipa in Bantwal taluk, and succumbed to his injuries three days later.
 
 Rajesh Naik said Sharath had also been a BJP worker, and had wished for the saffron party’s win in Bantwal. “He was a staunch supporter of the BJP and worked sincerely for it. Madivala had put his heart and soul towards ensuring the party’s victory in the region. I went to his house to offer condolences, as his wish has come true,” said Naik.
 
 B Bharath Shetty said his visit to Deepak Rao’s house was to send out a message that irrespective of one’s religion, no one will be allowed to disturb law and order in his constituency. “Deepak was a BJP worker who was murdered. Law and order is a basic necessity for development to happen in any region. My visit was carried out to send out a message that anti-social elements will not be allowed to carry out any injustice against anyone,” he said. Moodbidri MLA Umanatha A Kotian met Prashanth Poojary’s parents. Poojary, 29, a flower seller by profession, and a member of the Bajrang Dal, was stabbed by six assailants on October 9, 2015, at Moodbidri.
 
 
