PANAJI: A day after the directorate of education (DoE) issued new guidelines for school admissions laying stress on admission of students to neighbourhood schools, school managements, teachers and parents pointed out a number of loopholes in the circular. 

 The circular, for the first time, says that the state will reserved 10% of seats in government-aided schools for allotment as per the director of education’s discretion, which has also raised eyebrows.
 
 Educationist and padmashri awardee Suresh Gundu Amonkar said he is completely in favour of the concept of schooling in the neighbourhood as it saves students time and energy. He, however, questioned the state government’s intrusion in the management of privately managed government-aided schools by holding 10% seats.
 
 “Ten per cent seats for allotment at the director’s discretion will not make much of a difference as it means only eight of 80 seats in Class I, for instance. But somebody could use this clause to their advantage. By and large this will not impact I think. But all these rules do not apply to minority schools, only to us. In that sense all these rules make us almost government schools, only we are better managed. What does this reduce managements to?” Amonkar, earlier part of the management of G S Amonkar high school of  , said.
 
 General secretary of All Goa Secondary School Teachers’ Association Kisan   while saying that the state can keep some seats at its discretion, added that he felt that 10% is too high a figure.
 
 “At times when there are complaints during the admission process and the DoE realises that an eligible student has not got admission to a neighbourhood school, DoE has to intervene. In these cases, reserving some seats with it will help. But 10% appears to be on the higher side to me. It will mean if there are 700 seats in a school, as many as 70 will be allotted at DoE’s discretion. At present also there are people who try to interfere and influence the admission process. Hopefully, this 10% cap will at least restrict the extent of interference in the school management’s admission process,” Phadte said.
 
 Phadte also said that in Goa many have shifted residences within the state from their native villages to the city, but their ration cards, Aadhar cards, etc, still bear the address proof of their village. This may lead to problems if the distance criteria is strictly enforced during admissions, he said. 
 
 Another teacher said that DoE’s admission process only mentions distance criteria and no criteria has been set for merit. He feared this may be used to push managements to admit certain students only based on the distance criteria, with no heed paid to the student’s past performance or discipline record in the previous school.
 
 “The problem with the concept of neighbourhood schools in Goa is that it is such a small state and the density of schools vary. In   there are four schools in half-a-kilometre distance, then there are none for another 10km. In this situation, it becomes very difficult for headmasters to draw up jurisdiction of their schools,”   of New Educational Institute, Curchorem, said.
 
 
