CHANDIGARH: In a recent order, the   forum has held that it’s the duty of the insurance companies to ensure medical examination of the buyers before selling them any policy.

 The forum has made it clear that the insurance companies have the responsibility to ensure that the policyholder fulfills all the parameters of the policy plan, so that no issue can be raised at the time of settling the claim. The district consumer disputes redressel forum directed HDFC Standard Life Insurance, Chandigarh, to pay Rs 99,750 to a complainant in this sort of a case, along with 6% annual interest and the cost of litigation.
 
 The company had repudiated the death benefit to the family of a dead man on the basis that he had hidden facts about his pre-existing ailment at the time of buying the policy. Complainant Sushil Kumari stated in her complaint that her husband,  , had purchased a unit-linked policy HDFC Life ProGrowth Plus on November 17, 2014, with death sum assurance of Rs 6.65 lakh for 10 years that were to expire on November 17, 2024.
 
 Des   on September 29, 2015, at 55 due to cardiac arrythmia and related causes. Thereafter, the complainant, being a nominee, applied for death claim on October 17, 2015, but the insurer repudiated it on January 8, 2016, on the grounds that it had come out in its investigations that the buyer had diabetes, hypertension, and chronic kidney disease that he had not disclosed while obtaining the policy.
 
 However, the company credited Rs 86,802 to the complainant’s account to wash its hands off the entire liability. It was submitted that the proposal form was filled-up by the bank officials, and had they been diligent at the time of filling the details, they would have discovered that buyer had some disease for which he was under treatment at various hospitals in  .
 
 The company, in its reply, submitted that the claim was not payable because of concealment of material facts that the buyer had even cancer. It claims that the claim was repudiated rightly on the ground of non-disclosure of material facts and though no amount was refundable under the policy, it had paid back the fund value to the buyer’s nominee. The forum held after selling a policy without the buyer’s medical examination, the company cannot cover up for its lapses after the death of the policyholder. “While issuing the policy, it is the bounden duty of the insurance company to ensure that the policyholder fulfills all the parameters under the policy plan. The insurance company cannot approbate and reprobate the same policy,” the forum held.
 
 Taking into consideration the provisions contained in the insurance policy that the death benefit payable was equal to 105% of the total premium paid till the death, the forum that that the wife of the policyholder was entitled to a claim of Rs 99,750. The company will also have to pay her Rs 5,000 as the cost of litigation.
 
 
