HYDERABAD: Over 500 members of the   ( ) staged a massive dharna outside the   ( ) office, on Tuesday, to reiterate their demand for online admission to intermediate courses. They also demanded that the fee in corporate colleges be regulated, for the benefit of students.

 About 100 protesting students were later picked up by the police and sent to the   police station. They were subsequently released with a warning.
 
 “During the Telangana agitation, the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party members had promised to make the state free of corporate colleges, if the party came to power. It’s been four years since the formation of Telangana, yet no step had been taken in that direction,” said Ayappa L, state secretary, ABVP accusing the government of deliberating stalling the online process as it would adversely impact the profits of corporate colleges.
 
 They demanded that the state take immediate measures to introduce uniform fee structure for intermediate courses.
 
 “The first-year intermediate fee in government colleges is ₹1,760 and for the second year it is ₹1,940. Corporate colleges on the other hand collect lakhs of rupees. Some kind of regulation must be brought in to ensure that the colleges do not loot parents. Also, the board should declare that all admissions processed before the release of a notification, are not valid and ask the colleges to fill the seats via online admission,” said Dileep J, a protester even as others demanded that BIE initiate action against corporate colleges responsible for driving scores of students to their deaths in the past four years.
 
 “The situation in corporate colleges has become worse after the formation of the state. Scores of students are committing suicide because of the pressure exerted on them to excel in their studies. Yet, not a single case is being registered. It’s as if these colleges are not bound by any rules and regulations,” said Sravan, another protester.
 
 Questioning why the board is not initiating any action against these colleges for conducting classes during summer holidays, they insisted the board take them to task immediately.
 
 
