NEW DELHI:   president   said on Saturday that PM Narendra Modi’s “gross divisive politics (GDP)” had given India a 63-year low in bank credit growth and an eight-year low in job creation. Tagging a media report on the government forecasting a GDP growth of 6.5% this financial year,   also took a swipe at  , tweeting that the finance minister’s “genius” combined with Modi’s “gross divisive politics (GDP)” had seen new investments dip to their lowest point in 13 years. 

 He also claimed that the fiscal deficit had increased and projects had been stalled. Rahul’s “GDP” jibe follows his earlier coinage of the phrase ‘Gabbar Singh tax’ to corner BJP government over the goods and services tax (GST) and ‘Fake in India’ to counter the PM’s ‘Make In India’ campaign. Slamming the government over lower growth estimates for the current fiscal, senior Congress member   said the “worst fears of an imminent economic slowdown have come true”. 
 
 “The Modi government’s tall claims of India growing at a ‘robust’ growth rate have evaporated into thin air. No amount of sugar-coating, false bravado and rhetoric along with headlines management can conceal the stark reality. Our fears and warnings have proved true,” he said. In a statement, the Congress MP said the recent social discontent could be a “direct manifestation of this economic slowdown, which the government was conveniently hiding”. It was time the government stopped making tall claims and did some solid work, he added. 
 
 Attacking the ruling dispensation over the state of the economy, Chidambaram said, “New project announcements have declined, fresh investment is low, informal sector is reeling under the ill effects of demonetisation. Job creation is abysmal, exports are plunging, and manufacturing sector growth has slowed down.” 
 
 He added that the agriculture sector had been hit hard and rural despair was abundant. The former FM said the GDP growth rate was 8% in 2015-16 and 7.1% in 2016-17. It is estimated at 6.5% in 2017-18, “which proves there is a slowdown”. A decline in economic activity and growth meant the loss of millions of jobs, he said. 
 
 The anticipated growth of real GVA (gross value added) at basic prices in 2017-18 is 6.1% as against 6.6% in 2016-17, he said. Retail inflation soared to a 15-month high of 4.88% in November and industrial output hit a three-month low of 2.2% in October, Chidambaram said. “The investment picture remains bleak... The manufacturing sector has seen the sharpest fall and fiscal deficit is likely to overshoot the budget estimates of 3.2% of GDP,” he added.
