NOIDA: Sporadic violence at some places in Noida and Ghaziabad marred the otherwise peaceful screenings of   at various multiplexes on Wednesday evening amid heightened security around cinemas and on main roads. However, there was no screening of the movie in Greater Noida as Omaxe mall at Pari Chowk cancelled the shows at the last minute, fearing protests and violence.

 In Noida’s Barola village, a group of men attacked a UP roadways bus and smashed its window panes, demanding a ban on the movie. The protesters also tried to set the bus on fire but the driver managed to speed away. The bus was going from Phase II to Sector 37 bus depot when the incident took place. Some passengers received minor injuries as the protesters smashed its windshield glasses. They fled the spot before cops arrived.
 
 Otherwise, most movie halls across the twin cities and Ghaziabad saw nearly   on the opening day of the film’s release itself. Most promising response to Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s   came from PVR Cinemas at Logix City Centre Mall in Sector 32, the most favoured destination for Noidaites in movies. There were two shows of Padmaavat on Wednesday. And both were houseful with no cancellations despite nationwide threats against the movie from Karni Sena for alleged tarnishing of historical facts.
 
 Movie buffs also thronged The Great India Place (TGIP) mall in Sector 38 to watch the film. Manish Yadav, manager (carnival cinemas), TGIP mall, said they had seven shows of Padmaavat on Wednesday. “We are facing no problems as of now and are confident that we will run all shows comfortably,” he said.
 
 However, there was a dip in bookings at Spice Mall in Sector 25A. “Though there’s average booking for the evening shows, we have not faced any problems so far. Also, police deployment at the venue has helped normalise the situation,” said Vikas, the manager.
 
 According to Amit Mishra, area manager of carnival cinemas, Noida-Ghaziabad, the curiosity and willingness of moviegoers have not diminished despite the ongoing threat from Karni Sena and other Rajput fringe outfits. “We got nearly 30 calls from across Ghaziabad and Noida seeking information on the film. We are, however, not having any preview paid shows in Greater Noida,” he added.
 
 Wave Cinemas at Centre Stage Mall in Sector 18 had 40% booking on Wednesday evening show. “Mostly young crowd came because of easy availability of the tickets online. The initial hitch which may be due to fear of violence is expected to come down from Thursday as we have full support from the administration and feedback from Wednesday’s screening will further induce footfalls,” said Yogesh Raizada, vice president Wave Cinemas.
 
 Similarly in Ghaziabad, screenings of the movie were held peacefully except for a minor protest in front of Opulent Mall alongside GT Road against the release of the movie. “However, the protestors were pacified by police. There was no violence and shows have been scheduled to run as per bookings made at the box office and through various web-based applications,” said mall security-in-charge Rovish Tyagi.
 
 However, Gautam Budh and Ghaziabad district administration said that adequate security arrangements have been put in place to stave off any law and order breakdown.
 
 Noida SSP Love Kumar said police personnel have been deployed at all the shopping malls and multiplexes. “It is not like we provided security to Noida establishment and not in Greater Noida. The Greater Noida theatre hall managements decided against showing the movie on their own. We are committed to providing the required security arrangements,” he said.
 
 Ghaziabad district magistrate Ritu Maheshwari told TOI, “Security has been beefed up around malls and other vulnerable locations. Police have been asked to stay on alert. There have been no reports so far about disturbances, violent protests or breakdown in law and order from anywhere in the district.”
 
 
  
 
