KOLKATA: 'Processed' carcass meat that was seized from the   ice factory could well be passed as fresh, thanks to the unregulated use of chemicals that experts suspect could prove fatal. While some of the suspected chemicals are widely used in the food preservation industry, its unregulated use — in order to keep carcass meat fresh and its odour and flavour intact — is the real concern, felt experts, who have been contacted by the Budge Budge police and various municipalities for advice.

 
 
  
 
 According to sources, the carcass meat was processed immediately after being brought to Kolkata. The fatty organs was carved out and the rest treated with formalin. The meat was then reportedly treated with chemicals like calcium propionate, aluminium phosphate, aluminium sulphate and other forms of nitrites and nitrates. While calcium propanoite is used in several food items — like bread and other baked goods and even processed meat — its use has to be regulated. While sodium aluminium phosphates is also used, there is a debate among physicians if it triggers dementia.
 
 The cops, however, fear some even more harmful chemicals might have been used. “The questioning of two of the accused —   and Sarafat Hossain, the duo in charge of carving out the meat — has revealed that certain sulphates — like lead and aluminium — might have been used. We cannot jump to any conclusion on the use of any of the above chemicals till reports from the central forensic lab reach us,” explained a senior officer. SP (South 24 Parganas) Koteswar Rao said they had prayed to the CFSL for an early report. “Till then, no one need to jump to any conclusion,” he said.
 
 Police, according to sources, have been able to establish the economics behind the trade. “We have identified various linkmen and raids are on to nab them. We now have arrested people from two locations — Budge Budge and   — from where carcass meat originates — and the final place where it got processed — Rajabazar. We need to get to those who transported the meat using refrigerated carriers across the state and beyond it and those who finally bought it,” said an officer.
 
 Police said two to three men would go to dumpyards across Budge Budge, Kalyani, Kakinara, Jagaddal, Dhapa and even Basirhat to fetch meat. They would be paid Rs 60-80 a kg. By the time the absconding owner of the cold storage bought over this meat, he would be paying Rs 120-140 per kg. The meat is then sold at Rs 250-280, almost half the price of a kilo of mutton. The frozen items were then sent to bordering states and even the neighbouring countries.
 
 
