BHUBANESWAR: The ideal chief minister award for   on Sunday came as a huge morale booster to the ruling BJD, marred by infighting. 

 Naveen received the award from former president Pratibha Devisingh Patil at an event organized by MIT World Peace University in Pune. Though political rivals may still criticize Naveen, the latest recognition has made the people of Odisha sit up and take note. 
 
 A novice when he entered politics after his father Biju Patnaik's death in 1997,   has successfully beat anti-incumbency for fourth terms in a row, a record in the state. There has been no allegation of corruption against him in all these years and he continues to remain popular, said an analyst.
 
 "I would have never imagined that I will be standing here as one of the longest serving chief ministers of the country. Today, I can say with conviction, that politics is not complicated," said Naveen, known to lead a simple life. He wears white kurta pyjama and slippers and drives a modest Maruti SX4.
 
 The award comes for Naveen at a time when he faces strong intra-party dissent. An influential section in the party - MP Baijayant Panda, former   member   and former MLA Nabin Nanda - have questioned the way Naveen, who is also the BJD president, is running the party. They have particularly accused an IAS officer in the chief minister's office of meddling in party affairs.
 
 Rattled by a surging BJP, which has launched a campaign to win 120 out of 147 assembly seats in 2019, the Naveen dispensation has another win to cherish. This week, the BJD won the bypolls in civic bodies at Pattamundai, Angul and Paradip. It also snatched a   in   from BJP, the bypoll for which was held after the death of the sitting   ZP member Binaya Kumar Das. "The bypoll results show that the BJD continues to remain the most popular party under Naveen. The tall claims by political rivals are hollow," said BJD spokesperson Pratap Keshari Deb.
 
 The BJP said Naveen is taking solace in awards because his popularity is on the wane. "Naveen dedicated his honour to the 4.5 crore people of Odisha. Had he been an ideal leader, he would have tried to learn the language of these 4.5 crore people and understand them," said BJP spokesperson Sajjan Sharma. Sajjan said Naveen's action doesn't match his words. Had that been the case, the face of Odisha would have changed, he added. 
 
 But health and family welfare minister Pratap Jena hit out at him saying Naveen's speech was statesman-like. "While people in the country are appreciating him, BJP can't see merit for obvious reasons," he said.
 
 
