MADURAI: The relatives of dalits who were killed in the attack that was carried out by non-dalits in   village on Monday received the bodies after the government increased the compensation from Rs 10 lakh to Rs 15 lakh on Friday. The bodies of Arumugam, Shanmuganathan and   were taken to the village and final rites were conducted peacefully. 

 
 Heavy police deployment was in place to avert any untoward incident. Traffic movement was affected while the bodies were shifted from the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in the city to the village in three separate vehicles. Police personnel manned the route to ease traffic congestion.
 
 The victim’s relative had been protesting at Tiruvalluvar Statue near Anna Bus Stand in Madurai since Tuesday with a charter of demands, including increasing the compensation to Rs20 lakh. The protest however came to an end by Friday afternoon, after the government released a statement on Thursday evening enhancing the compensation to Rs 15 lakh.
 
  leader Thol Thirumavalavan visited the injured in the hospital and family members of the victims on Friday. Naam Tamilar Katchi leader   and film directors P Bharathiraja, Vetrimaran, Ameer and Ram also visited the injured. Thol Thirumavalavan demanded a   inquiry into the incident. He said that the local police could have prevented the attack had they taken adequate steps on the complaints lodged by the affected families earlier. He said that suspension of two police officers was not enough and action should be taken against them under the provisions of the SC/ST Act. He also demanded that Thirupachethi area be announced as atrocity-prone zone. He also demanded Rs1crore compensation for the victim’s families.
 
 Director Bharathiraja said that people should get rid of caste problems and should take pride in being Tamils. At a time when arts, culture and economy of Tamils have come under attack, he appealed to people not to divide youths by arming them with weapons. Seeman too echoed the demand to announce Thirupachethi as atrocity-prone zone. Intelligence should be beefed up to prevent the caste-based issues in the area, he added.
 
 Meanwhile, three injured people Sugumaran, Malaisamy and Thansekaran who were undergoing treatment at the GRH were shifted to a private hospital following demands from their relatives. 
 
 
