Bengaluru: Unveiling 24   for the city on Republic Day, chief minister Siddaramaiah said the canteens could potentially be set up at bus stands, hospitals and even colleges.

 “We can move beyond 198 Indira canteens in Bengaluru, by setting up five or 10 more. Canteens should be set up in densely populated areas like around the Maharani’s College. While other parties say they want a Congress-free state, we want a hunger-free state, regardless of the party,” said Siddaramaiah.
 
 Speaking on the criticism faced by project, he said, “While we must have parks in Bengaluru, will a canteen set up at the corner of a park make that much of a difference? The public must condemn those who oppose the construction of these canteens.”
 
 Since August 15 last year, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has been launching these canteens, which offer quality food at subsidized costs, in a staggered manner. Currently, 172 canteens are operational across the city.
 
 BBMP commissioner Manjunath Prasad reiterated that the civic body does not want to limit the number of canteens in the city to 198. “We will see if we can extend them to bus stations, hospitals and colleges. We will write to the principals of colleges across the city and seek their requirements. As for schools, we will first assess their needs and then work out the financial implications,” he added.
 
 BBMP chief said the mobile canteens would have a five-day trial run, during which the staff would familiarize themselves with the routes and alternate routes. “From February 1, all 24 of them will be operational,” he added. 
 
 Tempo travellers modified into canteens
 
 Out of the 24 mobile canteens, nine will be in South zone, seven in West zone, three each in East zone and RR Nagar and one each in Mahadevapura and Bommanahalli. Each of the tempo travellers cost Rs 8.5 lakh and were rebuilt and redesigned at Rs 5.5 lakh.
 
 These mobile canteens will stock up on food and water at assembly kitchens and head to designated parking spots in their respective wards. They will then return to the kitchen to drop off the used plates and refuel. Their meal timings and menu will be similar to that of the permanent canteens. The mobile units will be run by the two companies currently operating other Indira canteens.
 
 CCTV cameras, GPS tracking
 
 Each van will be equipped with CCTV cameras, a GPS tracking device and six foldable tables that will be set up around it once it starts serving food. Behind the van, there will be two sinks where people can wash their hands. The van has a capacity of 350 litre of washing water (for hands) and 250 litre of drinking water. Security will be provided by retired army personnel.
 
 
