VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra University has improved its   in the 2018 NIRF (National Institutional Ranking Framework) rankings, released on Tuesday evening in New Delhi, to become the top higher education institution in the state.

 The varsity has managed to make its way to 36th rank among all the education institutions of the country, surging ahead from its last year’s 69th rank. In fact,   is the only varsity from   to find a place in the top-50 list of NIRF. Sri Venkateswara University of Tirupati has been ranked 74th.
 
 When it comes to universities’ category, the varsity is at 22nd place among all the varsities of the country (an improvement from last year’s 43rd rank). On individual institutions front, AU College of Pharmaceutical Sciences is at 28th place, AU’s Dr   is at 10th place, and   is on the 65th spot.
 
 AU registrar Prof V Umamaheswara Rao attributed the success to teamwork, and praised both the faculty and officials of the varsity. “We are pretty happy with our progress in NIRF rankings. However, we will work towards placing the varsity among the top-10 institutions in the country in the next NIRF rankings. The multi-disciplinary and inter-disciplinary approach with both teaching and research focus has turned out to be an advantage for the university,” said Prof Rao.
 
 Andhra University has constituted a special team to prepare documents and presentations for the NIRF rankings. The institution has focused on explaining, in both documentation as well as presentations, how they are trying to become an institution of global repute. The varsity has emphasised on their multi-disciplinary initiatives, defence programmes, research work, best practices and international collaborations, AU officials said.
 
 The ministry of human resources development (MHRD) has been giving ranks to the institutions of higher education from 2016 to foster a competitive atmosphere among them. The rankings under the NIRF framework is given based on 5 major parameters- teaching and learning resources, research and professional practice, outreach and inclusivity, graduation outcomes and perception among employers and public.
 
 
