KOCHI:   Investigation Agency ( ) has told the Kerala high court that it has taken over the probe in a case where a 25-year-old Hindu girl from   was allegedly seduced and converted to Islam for marriage. It is also alleged that there was an attempt to smuggle her to   as an IS sex slave.

 During the hearing on a petition filed by the girl seeking an NIA probe, the central agency informed the court that an FIR has been registered and it was submitted at the residence of the jurisdictional judge.
 
 NIA and the central government submitted that an FIR was recorded by the central agency on the basis of the directive of the Union government. The case was originally registered by local police on the girl’s complaint. Alleging inaction by local police, the girl had sought an NIA probe, nullifying her marriage, retrieval of her passport, and changing her name in the passport.
 
 Disposing the petition on the basis of NIA’s submission, the bench said she can approach the court again if required and that her demand for changing her name in the passport can be raised before the appropriate authority itself.
 
 At the hearing, state government had submitted that the probe by local police is progressing and the accused have been charged under UAPA and also for criminal conspiracy. 
 
 Central government’s counsel told the court that a notification was issued by the government on January 24, asking NIA to take over the probe. As per the FIR submitted by NIA before the high court, the accused has been booked for rape too in addition to criminal conspiracy, promoting religious enmity, wrongful confinement, kidnapping, assault to outrage a woman’s modesty, extortion, threatening for extortion, cheating and forgery. There are nine accused in the case.
 
 As per the girl’s petition, she hails from Ranni but is presently staying at Jam Nagar in Gujarat. She met one Muhammed   while studying animation at Bengaluru in 2013 and fell in love with him. In November 2015, he invited her to his room and had sexual intercourse. He recorded a video of it and blackmailed her. 
 
 She was then taken to a training centre and forcefully converted to Islam. On May 21, 2016, they registered their marriage at Hebbal sub registrar office. Muhammed then procured a passport for her in her new Muslim name. She returned to Gujarat in October 2016. 
 
 Muhammed then filed a habeas corpus petition before the Kerala high court and she was forced to go with him. She was then taken to   in  . She escaped from there as Muhammed was planning to take her to Syria and reached Kochi on October 5, 2017, the woman had alleged.
 
 In a counter affidavit, Muhammed had claimed that the only wrong he committed was falling in love with her and marrying her legally. He also alleged that all the complaints against him were filed by the girl’s father in her name.
 
 
