Fashion is often made to look shallow, flighty and vain. While those in the industry know the gravity of the business of fashion, the inspirations behind fashion collections sometimes are far more profound than what meets the eye as consumerist glamour. Case in point are these collections made by the passing out batch of fashion designers from Mohali. Two among these stand out in their muse and matter. Titled ‘Zari Misl’ and ‘In the name of love’, the two fashion collections find their inspiration in Punjab CM Capt Amarinder Singh’s book The Battle of  , and  , respectively. While the final collections will be displayed through a fashion show in city today, the institute gave a prelude to the show on Saturday. 

  Simranjit Kaur, who designed ‘Zari Misl’ was first encouraged towards Sikh history by the animation film Chaar Sahibzaade based on the sons of the tenth Sikh guru, Guru Gobind Singh. “However, we can’t create a collection on them, since that’s against religious tenets,” says Simranjit, “So, then I came across the Sikh soldiers and read up about the many historical wars where Sikhs have fought. That was also the time I came upon the Punjab CM’s book and knew instantly that this was going be my muse.” Maintaining the Khaki outlook of the book, and taking off elements from the story, Simranjit crafted her collection, which she showcased on Saturday on five Sikh boys as models. The other inspiration that this young designer has factored in her collection, is the growing number of Punjabi films on wars showing Sikh soldiers. “Though the collection bears resonance with the Sikh soldiers and their uniform in history, I have added some other elements on my own because I want it to appeal to the likes of   who are making films on Sikh Soldiers. You can say, this is my design signature,” smiles Simranjit. 
 
  
 
 
  Sneha, who belongs to Gurgaon and is in Chandigarh for pursuing fashion designing, was moved by the acid attack survivors after she saw a photography exhibition on the survivors by Neeraj Gera. “Neeraj had depicted the transformation of acid attack survivors into confident women through his pictures,” says Sneha who has called upon a survivor,   as her showstopper for the show. She adds, “I was so moved by the brutality of the crime and culprits who commit such hideous crimes on women, that I decided this was going to be my final collection.” 
 
  
  Sneha has even done her ground work by attending the wedding of a survivor in Lucknow. The elements in her collection mimic the physical pain of the attacks and mental strength of these survivors. “The collection has elements that look like blisters that erupt after an acid attack. And it also has other components like skin becoming shriveled and torn, while exposing a shimmer underneath. This is metaphoric for the shine of their souls that still exists underneath that broken and burnt skin,” says Sneha. 
 
  Hailing from Rohtak in Haryana, Ritu was attacked on May 26, 2012 by her disgruntled relative. “He was 22 older than me and attacked me after I did not respond to his advances,” says Ritu who was a state level volley ball player before the attack. Ritu is now part of the campaign for acid attack survivors, along with Luxmi and others. 
 
 
