Nagpur: Irregularities in ticketing money have come to fore in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) city bus service— Aapli Bus. Total 35 conductors have allegedly siphoned ticketing money. All have been removed from services but no FIR has been registered against them. The conductors have allegedly committed the irregularities with the help of staffers of the NMC’s integrated bus transport manager— Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS).  The irregularities came to fore in mid-November but were kept secret by the civic body. TOI learnt about the irregularities from an informal discussion between corporators during the general body’s special meeting held on Saturday. Chairman of city transport committee Bunty Kukde told TOI that directives have been given to register FIR against all conductors. The civic body will also be recovering the siphoned money. “As of now, the ticketing money has been calculated at Rs12.36 lakh. Detail investigation will be done to know about the conductors’ involvement and financial losses incurred. Directives have been also given to DIMTS for ensuring regular checking in buses,” he said. City transport manager Shivaji Jagtap said siphoned amount will be recovered from two agencies supplying conductors—Unity Security Force and Security and Intelligence Services (SIS). “Agencies are responsible for this. We have issued notices to them and will ensure recovery of money,” he said. Total 34 of 35 conductors are from Unity while one is from SIS. These conductors were earlier working with starbus operator Vansh Nimay Infraprojects Limited (VNIL) and were inducted by the two agencies following pressure from unions, corporators and public representatives. There are around 800 conductors and many of them were retained from VNIL. As per sources in NMC’s city transport committee and DIMTS, the chances of involvement of more conductors cannot be ruled out. “The modus operandi is such that the chances of irregularities since VNIL’s tenure of 10 years cannot be ruled out. It is the first case of irregularities in ticketing money since NMC took over city bus service in 2007,” the sources said. “It is very difficult to know who exactly from our staff was involved with the conductors,” a DIMTS official said. NMC sources told TOI that police’s cyber crime investigation cell suggested them to approach police station as it was a fraud case. “Pressure will be put on Unity and SIS to register FIR against conductors. NMC cannot do it as no such provision is in the contract,” sources said.