BETUL/BHOPAL: Beyond the statistics, beyond the campaigns and crusades, here's a   and what it does to a woman and her family. A 19-year-old who was called a hero by her family, and "always laughed", hanged herself in a room in a Betul village on New Year's morning, leaving behind a note that said: ' '. 

 In a hut where a lone naked bulb throws gloomy shadows, the mother brought herself to speak about the moment she found her daughter dead. "I thought she was playing a prank. I touched her body. It was cold. I shook her twice. I told her this isn't done, you are looking scary, but she didn't reply." 
 
 She makes no attempt to stop the tears and gets up to fetch a packet of   mix and sugar from the shelf. "I will make gulab jamun for all of us on New Year Amma... Those were her last words," she says.
 
 On New Year's Eve, the teenager stepped out of the house to relieve herself. There were two men waiting. They dragged her away and raped her. When she returned home, she was a broken person.
 
 The night she killed herself, she had walked over to where her father slept. "For a moment during night, she came to me as if she wanted to tell me something. I thought it was thieves and woke up. As soon as I realised it was her, I went back to sleep. I wish I hadn't. What if she wanted to tell me about her ordeal? I could have saved her life," the father says, lying on a makeshift bed on the floor.
 
 
 
 
 Youngest daughter-inlaw said, “He is unable to speak. His children try to comfort him as he shivers. “She was very close to him. He would take her advice in every decision.”
 
 The now-gone teen was the brightest in the family, even the village. She passed higher secondary though the village doesn’t have a school, and dreamt of becoming a police officer. “She was the hero of our family. Always happy. Always laughing,” the father said, choking up.
 
 The teenager had bought the gulab jamun mix on the morning of December 31. There was laughter in the family. Who knew everything would change in just 12 hours, said the mother. “I woke up on New Year’s morning and went to ask her if she was going to make gulab jamun. My knees gave way on seeing her hanging,” sobs her mother. “I see her everywhere.” As dusk falls, the setting sun lights up pink   outside the house. “She planted this tree, saying this would make our small home look beautiful,” the family says.
 
 More people start gathering at the damp three-room mud house, the family calls home. They gesture toward a shed barely 4x5ft. “This is where she hung herself,” one says. It’s barely tall enough for someone to stand properly.
 
 This is where the teen wrote her last letter: “Mera jeevan bekar ho gaya hai. Marne ke alawa koi rasta nahi (my life is ruined, no other option but to die).” It’s from the letter that her family knew about the rape. Police have arrested two suspects.
 
 This family’s tragedy makes you realise why it’s so crucial to have a system in place to  , and why it needs to reach out to remote villages.
 
