GURUGRAM:   of   — a residential project in Sector 47 — protested at developer Unitech’s office, alleging delay in completion of the project and poor maintenance of towers in which around 350 families are living now.

 Uniworld Garden-2 is spread across 13 acres of land, and has 16 towers which are 14-storey buildings. Of the 16 towers, the developer has handed over flats in 12 towers to buyers. While 350 families staying in Uniworld Garden-2 alleged poor construction, lack of maintenance and snag in elevators, while around 200 buyers who have booked flats in incomplete four towers alleged delay in completion of the project.
 
 TOI made several phone calls and sent an e-mail to the developer, but they didn’t elicit any response.
 
 Buyers Dheeraj Dhingra, Pooja Kapoor and Rishiraj Walia said they had booked flats in the project in 2009 when the builder had promised to deliver flats by 2011. Even after seven years, the project is incomplete, they said.
 
 “Only very few labourers are working at the site and at this speed it may take years to complete the project,” said Dhingra, urging the developer to speed up the work. Pooja said they had purchased flats after availing a bank loan, but they are forced to pay EMIs and house rents even many years after booking flats.
 
 Joginder Singh, president of Uniworld Garden-2 resident welfare association (RWA), said most elevators in the apartment are not working properly. “In recent months, several residents were stuck in lifts on multiple occasions, and they had to be rescued after breaking the gates of lifts,” said Singh.
 
 He said 12 towers have 24 elevators, which according to him, are not functioning well. “In March, five people were stuck in lifts on multiple occasions owing to technical snag,” said Singh, adding that continuous failure of lifts has compromised safety of residents.
 
 Residents have been raising the charge of poor maintenance and lift failures at multiple forums, including the CM Window. “Several complaints have already been filed, but nothing substantial has been done till now,” Singh said, adding that people moved into their houses after getting   to save on rent. He said the developer is charging high maintenance cost, but not is taking care of the towers.
 
 District town planner (DTP) RS Batth said people have been living in some of the towers for some time and they have been facing problems due to absence of grid power supply. Following complaints on CM Window, the department of town and country planning (DTCP) was asked to ensure that all the complaints alleging poor maintenance, lack of basic services and power connection in Uniworld Garden-2 are resolved. 
 
 
