MADURAI: Organisations as well as members of the public who have been demanding that the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) be established in Madurai have set May-end as the deadline for the government to announce its final decision on the hospital’s location in the state, failing which they would launch a protest in the first week of June.

 Representatives of political parties, trade organisations and public participated in the token fast which was held at the   junction in this regard on Saturday. The speakers said that they stood by their earlier statements that Madurai was best suited for the hospital. They have decided to make a representation to   leader Amit Shah and also try to meet Prime Minister   to push their cause.
 
 Led by the coordinator of the People’s Movement of AIIMS for Madurai, V S Manimaran, and presided over by the president of Maditssia, K P Murugan, it was also attended by R Srinivasan and Sasiraman (district secretary) of the BJP, former CPM MLAs N Nanmaran and R Annadurai, CPM district secretary Vijaya Rajan, Congress member Advocate Venketramana, Madurai east MLA P Moorthy, writer S Venkatesan among others. Besides them, a large number of people from villages such as Thoppur, Uchapatti, Nagamalai Pudukottai and Palamedu also came to express their solidarity with the cause.
 
 The speakers said that the government could not cite the pipeline of the  , which was passing through the proposed site at Thoppur, as an excuse for not establishing the hospital there, as the IOC had already granted NOC for the same. While the other sites had many government medical colleges and multispeciality hospitals, Madurai which catered to 13 districts including nine in the south had no upgraded medical hospital. Besides, a large number of people lived below the poverty line. Over 2.60 crore people from the southern districts would benefit from it.
 
 The villagers who came to attend the protest said that they had come to know that AIIMS would bring a lot of development to Madurai and the southern districts and hence wanted to participate in the protests. They also hoped that the representatives who attended the meeting would come to their villages to create awareness.
 
 
