 (ERODE)Grind for education : Students hailing from   and neighbouring hamlets in   district eagerly came out of the Government Higher Secondary School at Kadambur to catch a bus home at 3.30 pm on Friday. After TOI reported that the students had to wait until 8.30pm daily to take the lone bus to their village, transport minister K A Sengottaiyan ordered that a government bus be diverted to pick up the children at 3.30pm.

  The children told this correspondent that they were thrilled that they would reach home at 4.30pm for the first time. But their happiness vanished within moments when they found that the bus at the stand was bound for  , not Gundri. As ordered by the minister, the school authorities ended classes at 3.15pm to enable the students to catch the bus.
 
 “We were told by our teachers that we would get a bus to Gundri. But after seeing another bus, we are disappointed,” said S John, a Class XII student. His classmate G Deepak appealed to the transport officials to operate a bus to Gundri to suit school timings.
 
 When contacted, a senior transport official said the transport managers in Sathyamangalam had wrongly ordered diversion of a bus to Makkampalayam village, instead of Gundri. He said students from Makkampalayam too had been forced to wait until 6.30pm for a lone bus to take them home. “When the minister ordered us to divert a bus for students, we thought that he was talking about a bus to Makkampalayam,” the official added.
 
 General manager of the   of Erode region K Senathipathi expressed shock when the issue was brought to his notice. He said he will look into this issue at the earliest. 
 
 “It’s very hard for me to arrange a bus to Gundri now due to the transport employees strike. But I will try to arrange a bus for them at the earliest,” he said.
 
 An hour after the students from the Gundri region came to the bus stand, they were told by transport department officials that it was not possible to arrange a bus due to the strike. However, villagers of Kadambur arranged a private van to drop the students at Gundri. The students finally left for home at 5 pm.
 
 
