Mohali: Members of the Bhartiya Kisan Union-Rajewal ended their 3-day stir on Saturday evening following assurance from the Chief Minister’s Office to fulfill their demands and get them an appointment with the CM Amarinder Singh. Meanwhile, BKU president Balbir Singh Rajewal, who ended his hunger strike, fell ill and was admitted to a private hospital on Saturday morning. 

 The letter addressed to Rajewal, clearly stated that the CM office has received the memorandum issued by BKU and most of their demands mentioned in the memorandum are already under consideration but still all the concerned departments have been instructed to expedite the work. It also mentioned that a meeting with the CM would be fixed which will be later notified to BKU. Rajewal said, “We have received an assurance letter from the CM’s office for fulfilling our demands. Now we will hold a meeting with him to discuss our problems and find a solution. As of now, we have ended our stir.”
 
 Two days ago, Bhartiya Kisan Union-Rajewal president Balbir Singh Rajewal had threatened to stop supply of milk, vegetables and fruits to Chandigarh and stay on hunger strike till the Punjab government fulfills their promises.
 
 BKU activists blocked the entry-exit at YPS crossing and threatened to sit on hunger strike if their demands are not met with. They had been occupying the spot overnight. Supported by around 300 activists Rajewal said that the Punjab government had promised to waive off debts but he has put in some riders which we oppose. “CM has only made announcements but has not delivered anything concrete at ground level. The rate of milk has also been reduced by Rs 6 but it has affected directly to the milk producers and Verka has reduced the purchase rate by Rs 6. We also demand that Punjab must rationalize the electricity rates at domestic levels in villages but government has instead increased it,” said Rajewal. The residents of Mohali had to face a tough time on roads as a result of traffic jam. The roads opposite YPS crossing, phase VII, VIII, IX, were blocked leading to traffic jams. Due to the protest the entry-exit point of Chandigarh-Mohali was heavily guarded by the police of two states closing down the traffic movement from all the four sides from past 72 hours. 
 
 
