With   vacations approaching, students are already looking out for ways to spend their time in a productive manner. Gone are the days when students would just relax and be couch potatoes during vacations. Today, they try to make the most of their holidays by either working or pursuing internships. While this gives them exposure to professional life, it also allows them to be financially independent. If you are looking out for summer   ahead of your next academic year, these are some options to explore…

 
 
 One of the most popular professions among students, if you can work your magic with the lens, then this job is for you. With flexible timings and lot of scope for creativity, photography not only tests your creative side, but also gets you access to some of the most exciting events and opportunities and is something that you can continue while you are in college as well.
 
 
 
 This is something that most students are well-versed with. With almost all youngsters being pros at managing multiple social media accounts, this job allows you to get into the nitty-gritties of the online world. What’s more, you can intern with popular websites and learn the nuances, and work for them even after your college resumes.
 
 
 
 Another popular summer job among the youth, this profession tests your public speaking and event managing skills. Emceeing for corporate and other events is a big hit among city students. Not only does emceeing pay you well, but it also gives you the exposure that a budding host needs. This too can be pursued by students even after their college reopens.
 
 
 
 Makeup tutorials, cooking videos, travel vlogs, blogs — you name it, there is nothing that the Gen Y hasn’t done. Millenials have already exceled at this and are constantly upping their game. Though most of them do not earn from their videos or blogs, it gives them exposure. If your content is appreciated by your peers, there are ways to monetise your work. This also allows you to learn other aspects like video editing, production, content writing and SEO for your blog and more.
 
 
 
 For those who are not seeking monetary benefits and wish to spend their time just doing good work, volunteering for groups and NGOs is the best option. There are several groups and NGOs in the city that constantly seek hard working volunteers. Volunteering for such groups allows you to meet people from different walks of life and also opens your eyes to different arenas. You can also volunteer for NGOs that allow you to teach in rural areas or in government schools.
 
 
 
  Another popular option among students, you can make the most of this as you are not bound by any rules or time. You can prepare a schedule that suits your timings and that of your student, and you can hand out lessons right from your home. With summer holidays approaching, parents constantly seek camps and classes for their children. Several students in the city are known to give music and baking lessons. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
