KANPUR: It was a TV campaign featuring the inspiring words of Javed Akhtar that catapulted Rotomac pens into the country’s consciousness in the 1990s. The commercial started with the line “
 ” and ended with “
 ”. These went on to become one of the most quoted lines at all kinds of fora, from school assemblies to corporate round tables. 
 
 Now, as Rotomac promoter   is hounded by the CBI and Enforcement Directorate for an alleged fraud of Rs 3,700 crore, it appears unlikely that the words said about his “Fighter” brand will hold true for him.
 
 After searching his premises in New Delhi, the CBI registered an FIR on Monday on the basis of a complaint filed by the Bank of Baroda (BoB), which led a consortium of seven banks that had given loans to Kothari’s  . The loan amount kept swelling thereafter. The ED and income tax department, too, have joined the probe against the Kotharis.
 
  
  
 
 Vikram Kothari is the elder son of the late  , who launched Kothari Products Ltd in 1973 and started an iconic mouth-freshener brand, “Pan Parag”. The group launched Rotomac Pens Pvt Ltd in 1992 to manufacture affordable ballpoint pens and stationery without compromising on quality.
 
 Rotomac was an instant hit, challenging existing leaders like Linc and Luxor. Apart from the Javed Akhar commercial, another ad of the company that caught people’s imagination featured actor Raveena Tandon and had the catch line “Likhte, Likhte Love ho Jaye”. A later ad had star Salman Khan propagating the Right to Information.
 
  
  
 
 In 1999, two sons of Mansukhbhai Kothari parted ways. Vikram, who was the vice-president in the company, resigned, and his younger brother Deepak bought out his shares. As per the deal, Vikram also got control of Rotomac Pens. But trouble began soon. As much cheaper roller pens costing as less as Rs 5 started flooding the market, Rotomac took a severe beating after the turn of the century.
 
 With his pen and stationery business in deep water, Vikram Kothari diversified and rechristened his company as Rotomac Global Pvt Ltd to venture into real estate and the mall business. He also started his own mouth-freshener business under Kothari Foods and Fragrances.
 
 At present, Vikram Kothari is also chairman of Rotomac Exports Pvt Ltd, which exports products like rice, maize, gold, superior kerosene oil, etc.; Crown Alba Writing Instruments, which manufactures specialised stick ball pens for customers in the US and Canada; Mohan Steels Ltd; Rave Entertainment Pvt Ltd, which runs Kanpur’s first mall, Rave 3; and RFL Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, which has business operations in Kanpur, Lucknow, Dehradun and Ahmedabad.
 
 After Rotomac stopped paying back the banks, Bank of Baroda declared him a wilful defaulter in February 2017. However, he contested the tag in the Allahabad high court and received an order in his favour. He then took his case to the   (NCLT), which is to hear his case on February 22.
 
 Soon after news that Nirav Modi’s companies had allegedly scammed PNB, media reports said Kothari, too, had fled the country, Kothari issued a statement on Sunday: “I am a resident of Kanpur and I will stay in the city. However, I do have to travel to foreign countries for business purposes.” On Sunday night, he was spotted at the wedding ceremony of the daughter of a Hindi newspaper owner in Kanpur. However, early Monday morning CBI sleuths swooped down on his establishments.
 
