UDAIPUR: Panchayat members of a village in   allegedly tried to shield an upper caste man, who had raped a mentally-unstable Dalit woman, by offering the survivor’s family a ‘settlement’ amount. Videos showing the panchayat members dissuading the family from filing a case against the accused have gone viral on social media.

 
 The man,   (38), allegedly took a 35-yearold woman to the outskirts of   village on May 18 and raped her. The woman was living as a vagabond as she was earlier abandoned by her family.
 
 According to initial reports, the panchayat, which was attended by members from four villages, let go of the accused after imposing a fine of Rs 51,000 and dissuading the survivor’s family against reporting the matter to the police or conducting the woman’s medical examination.
 
 An FIR was finally lodged on Tuesday on the intervention of an NGO, Gramin Mahila  , working for women in the area.
 
 
 
 Jaipur: “The man took the woman to a secluded area and raped her. When the man was returning with her, some villagers caught the accused and he confessed to the crime,” said NGO member Mamta Singh Chohan.
 
 Chohan said that instead of reporting the matter to the police, the village elders held a meeting and imposed a penalty of Rs 51,000 on the accused and told the survivor's family not to resort to any police action. In its decision, the panchayat ordered the accused would contribute the penalty amount in construction of a house for the rape survivor.
 
 “Even more shocking was the fact that when the police were informed about the rape, a cop was sent to the village who, instead of counselling the survivor’s family, took a report from it that it did not want any police action against the accused,” Chohan said.
 
  police station SHO Udai Singh, however, justified police inaction by saying, “We have registered a case under relevant sections of IPC as well as the SC&ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The panchayat members have no role as they only quizzed the man. The accused is on the run and we have sent teams to apprehend him.”
 
 
