BATHINDA: The Advanced Cancer Diagnostics Treatment and Research Centre in   has failed to serve the people right from the time of its inception, around 18 months back, for want of specialized faculty.

 On World Cancer Awareness Day on Sunday,   finance minister   assured support to the centre’s authorities who are demanding cancer specialists and allotment of land of the adjoining   once it is relocated to its own campus at Ghudda village.
 
 At present, the centre has only 10 doctors, including four on deputation from   (BFUHS). There are 35 vacancies of specialist doctors. 
 
 The centre was set up by the previous SAD-BJP government on July 7, 2016, at a cost of Rs 115 core from the Cancer and Drug De-addiction Infrastructure Fund. When then chief minister Parkash Singh Badal had inaugurated the centre, he had claimed that it was second only to that of Mumbai in terms of facilities. 
 
 However, lack of specialist doctors has proved to tbe centre’s bane. Against the sanctioned strength of 50, the centre — being run by BFUHS, Faridkot — has only 10 doctors.
 
  region is more prone to the disease and is termed as the ‘cancer capital’ of Punjab. A survey carried out by the state health department in 2013 had found more than 33,000 persons dying of cancer in five years and 24,000 suffering from it. It also showed that 85,000 people had cancer-like symptoms. No extensive survey was conducted after that to know its incidence.
 
 With affordable cancer treatment not available in Punjab, many patients from Malwa prefer to travel to Bikaner in  .
 
 “We need at least 35 more specialists and infrastructure to cater to the needs of patients. We apprised the Punjab finance minister of our demands on Sunday. He has assured to take our demands at a high-level meeting on February 19,” said centre director Dr M K Mahajan.
 
 The finance minister said, “Going by the high incidence of cancer in the Malwa region, the state government is committed to support the centre. I will ensure that the issue of specialised faculty is discussed during the February 19 meeting and the university campus is provided to it.”
 
 
