“Women think of all colours except the absence of colour. I have said that black has it all. White too. Their beauty is absolute. It is the perfect harmony.” — Coco Chanel

 As a colour, black may have firmly established its place in the   hall of fame, courtesy the little black dress. But when the heat cranks up, it’s white that comes to mind. Creamy hues, wispy vanillas, exotic ivory, edgy eggshells – designer Varun Bahl is rooting for white. In fact, he has a wedding range in shades of white. He says, “Whites are perennial. This season particularly, I see white-on-white becoming big.” 
 
 
 
 Designer Rina Singh calls summer whites a “forever trend”. “Go for white-on-white textures, a little subtle print works well too.” Pair it with pink or blues to reflect the summer mood. Singh is also big on summer layering with thin layers in soft washed cotton with cotton silks. With 
 India experiencing nearly 10 months of summer, the popularity of white is unlikely to wane. What has changed, says designer Shruti Sancheti, are the fabrics and cuts. 
 
 
 
 Mulmul, jute, organza, voiles, cottons and linen are perfect fabric picks. Bahl adds chanderi and khadi to the list, too. Think midis, maxis, kaftan dresses, tunics to breathe free. “But do invest in a classic white shirt,” Sancheti adds. Designers Sonam and Paras Modi refer to summer whites as palette cleansers. “It adds an ease to summer dressing. Style them up by means of statement accessories,” says Modi.
 
 
 Yes, shades of white is a thing. Often cream, eggshell, ivory, Navajo white, and vanilla are identifiable as shades of white. When you are trying a white-on-white ensemble, teaming up shades is a tricky sartorial move. Off-white tends to look dull and faded in comparison to stark white. Hence, sticking to one shade of white is your go-to tip.
 
  
  
 (
 Opt for loose cuts with subtle prints, Soft creams and eggshells can be gussied up with subtle embroidery, Pick flowy drapes in light mulmul)
 
 
  
  
 (
  Dramatic sleeves are big this season. Play it up, Playsuits, thin straps, summer dresses keep you cool, Sheer meets fitted cuts for an easy-breezy look)
 
 
  
  
 ( Wear desi designs to play it cool)
 
 
  
  
 (Soft layering and softer prints help to beat the heat)
 
 
 
 
 Whites are tough to maintain and can stain easily or become a bit yellowish if not aired regularly. So air your whites and be careful of stains and perspiration.
 
 
