VELLORE: A 26-year-old woman from Kancheepuram district has been arrested along with four others for smuggling   worth several lakhs of rupees. The arrest of the woman, who was travelling in a sports utility vehicle, with the suspected smugglers revealed the new modus operandi of the timber mafia. 

 The smugglers roped in the woman to accompany them to make the police and forest officials believe that they were a family on a pilgrimage. They were arrested during a vehicle check at Anjaneyapuram forest check-post in Tirupathi forest range on Saturday night. 
 
 “This is the first time, a woman was arrested for direct involvement in red sanders smuggling,” Y Srinivasa Reddy, curator of S V Zoo Park, Tirupathi, told TOI. He also holds the additional charge of Tirupathi division forest officer.
 
 The woman has been identified as Rebekka, wife of Rajan, of Tiruppakunzhi village near Balachettisatram in Kancheepuram district. She was arrested along with  , 27, of Balachetti Satram, S Saravanan, 30, of   village, and R Bhupalan, 26, of Sirukaveripakkam in Kancheepuram district, and A Ramaswamy, 55, of Sathanur village in Villupuram district.
 
 They were travelling in an SUV (TN 21 BC 1806). The vehicle was stopped at the Anjeyanapuram check-post. Though the forest officials initially preferred to let them go, they grew suspicious and stopped the vehicle again. On checking the vehicle, they found 22 red sanders logs stacked at the back of the vehicle.
 
 The inquiry revealed that the smugglers have come up with this new modus operandi – that is to accompany a woman – to hoodwink the officials, as forest and police personnel tend to allow the vehicles to go if there were women inside. 
 
 “They have come up with this idea to outsmart the police and forest officials manning the check-posts. In future, we will check the vehicles if we find something fishy about the occupants, including women,” said the DFO.
 
 “She (Rebekka) was paid Rs 5,000 to accompany them to show that they are a family and returning after visiting the Tirupathi temple,” said a conservator.
 
 Earlier, she pleaded innocent and said her second husband Sathiyaraj was taking her to the temple. “I am not aware about the smuggling of red sanders logs. They stopped the vehicle at a dhaba and the vehicle was taken by one of the men. I don’t know what is in the vehicle,” Rebekka was heard during the inquiry.
 
 The forest officials have invoked various sections of Andhra Pradesh Forest Act, 1967, Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, and Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984, read with Sections 378, 379 and 411 of the IPC against them.
 
 Also, a sticker of ‘media’ and logo of advocate were found stuck on the front and rear windshield of the vehicle. “The smugglers are using various techniques to dupe vehicle-checking officials,” said a forest department official.
 
 Rebekka is the first woman from TN to be arrested in red sanders smuggling case. 
 
 Sangeetha Chatterjee, 28, a model and air hostess, was arrested in March 2017 for her alleged involvement in the international red sanders smuggling racket. She was associated with international smuggler Markondan Laxman.
 
 
