MUMBAI: Accidents due to falling between the gap of platform and train has gone down by 50% in 2017compared to 2016, even as incidents of dashing against railway poles have increased slightly on the Central Railway. Last year, the most deaths (nearly77%) on CR happened during crossing of tracks and due to passengers falling off trains. 

 Statistics submitted to the Bombay   by the Central Railways shows that overall deaths and injuries on railway tracks have fallen by 6% in 2017 from the previous year. The Western Railway has not provided a detailed break up to the court yet.
 
 
  
 
 While 1,924 deaths were reported on CR last year, 1,074 of them happened during crossing of lines and 407 others due to fall from trains. In 2016, CR saw 1,856 deaths—1,165 of them due to line crossing and 446 due to falling from train.
 
 According to CR, 9 people fell into platform gaps in 2017, and five of them lost their lives. The previous year, 18 commuters had similar accidents and six of them were killed. When it comes to accidents involving passengers being hit by poles along the tracks, CR reported 32 such cases last year, compared to 29 in 2016, which was nearly 50% of 58 cases reported in 2015. Last year, two commuters died in such incidents, compared to 2016 when there was no fatality.
 
 “The railway administration is committed to provide better and safe travel to commuters and all efforts are being taken to reduce the number of injuries and death over tracks,” said Yuvraj Patil, divisional commercial manager, CR, in an affidavit before the high court. The Central Railway as well as the Western Railway placed before the court the measures they plan to take including increase in number of emergency medical rooms, boundary walls, new foot over-bridges and escalators at railway stations. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by activist Samir Zaveri on the issue of track deaths. A division bench headed by Justice Shantanu Kemkar on Thursday asked Zaveri to go through the affidavits and file his response within two weeks. 
 
 The CR said that it proposes to build boundary walls in vulnerable areas up to a total length of 37 kms and increase patrolling to prevent incidents of unwanted objects being placed on the tracks. While around 14 EMRs are operational, it plans to commission another 12 such units. An additional 24 EMRS will be set up in phases. 
 
 The WR said that it had raised the platform height at all stations between Churchgate and Virar. “Regular drives are being conducted against roof top travel, and RPF personnel have been deployed at FOBs and entry/exits of stations to ensure obstruction free movement,” D K Mishra, Senior Divisional Engineer, WR said in the affidavit.
 
