TRICHY: A total of  ,420 candidates are set to take the national eligibility-cum-entrance test ( ) at 12 centres in   on Sunday even as many from the district struggled to get to centres allotted in Kerala after the Supreme Court stayed a high court order asking CBSE to allot additional centres in the state for them. 

 The examination for MBBS admissions will be held at Samadh Higher Secondary School, Kendriya Vidyalaya No.1, Kendriya Vidyalaya No.2, Amrita Vidyalayam, Cauvery Global School, Kamala Niketan Montessori School, Mahatma Gandhi Centenary Vidyalaya, Montfort School, Sri Vageesha Vidyashram Senior Secondary School, Sri Vignesh Vidyalaya Senior Secondary School and Sri Akilandeswari Vidyalaya and at Saranathan college of Engineering. Police protection has been put up at all the centres. 
 
 Meanwhile, on Saturday, Trichy collector K Rajamani announced that the candidates from the district who have been allocated centres outside the state, could contact the district administration for any kind of help or assistance. This came after the state government on Friday announced Rs 1,000 each to the candidates who had to travel to centres outside TN. Apart from the government, several people – including NGOs – also volunteered to offer monetary assistance, travel expenses and accommodation. 
 
 However, despite the support, parents of a few candidates who have been allotted centres outside the state had to mortgage their valuables to generate money to take their children to the exam centres. They said that though they appreciated the help offered, the announcement had come a little too late. 
 
 S Thirugnanasambandham, father of a medical aspirant from a village in Ariyalur district, who would be attending the exam near Perumbavoor in Ernakulam, said that his wife had to mortgage her gold earrings to fund the travel and accommodation expense. “We came to know about the monetary assistance only on Saturday, but by then we thought it would be too late to go and seek others’ help because the place where my daughter will be attending the exam is completely new to us and we wanted to reach there as soon as possible,” he said. 
 
 His daughter, T Hema, said that too much hassles due to the travel proved to be a major hindrance for final preparations. “Some of my friends are also on the same boat. In fact, one of my classmates, Afreen, who has also been allotted the same exam centre as that of mine, has been sent with us by her parents because they were not able to afford the expenses,” she said.
 
 Even candidates from rural areas in Trichy district who have been allotted centres in the city reached Trichy on Saturday to check the centres once along with their parents. “My daughter, J Sneha, fortunately, was not allotted a test centre outside the state. For us, even coming to Trichy was a hard task. We came a day early so that we wouldn’t face any difficulties spotting the centre on Sunday,” said Jaishankar, a parent from a village near Mannargudi.
 
 
