MUMBAI: More than two years into his incarceration as an undertrial prisoner in a Rs840 crore money laundering case related to awarding of contract for building the   in New Delhi, former deputy CM Chhagan   (71) will finally be released on bail. The   granted him bail for a surety of Rs5 lakh on Friday. He is expected to be out on Saturday. 

 The   order comes in the wake of Supreme Court quashing a provision of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) for being discriminatingly tough on accused at the bail stage. Bhujbal had failed to secure bail in five attempts. Since his arrest and custody on March 14, 2016, he had filed three bail pleas and two petitions - one for habeas corpus and the other challenging PMLA's provisions. All were rejected by courts.
 
  
 NCP leader Bhujbal has been in KEM hospital for pancreatic problems since March 13. Justice PN Deshmukh allowed Bhujbal's lawyer Sujay Kantawalla's request that he be permitted to post the bail amount in cash. The surety has to be furnished within 10 days. The HC directed that Bhujbal cannot leave the city and areas that fall within the court's jurisdiction, without prior permission. He also has to attend the Enforcement Directorate (ED) office as and when required till commencement of trial. His passport is already impounded, ED lawyer HS Venegaonkar told the judge.
 
 The other condition was to not tamper with witnesses or evidence. The HC told Bhujbal not to "directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case." Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, opposing his bail plea on Thursday, had said Bhujbal might, as he said he is an "influential person." 
 
 Bhujbal said he came back voluntarily from the US and has been in custody since March 2016 with no sign of when the trial would start. The case rests on oral evidence and documents with ED, and Bhujbal's plea is he has a "sanguine case to meet each and every allegation against him, during trial." The ED argued laundering impacts the economy. Such offences are "committed with a cool calculation for personal profits with no regard of consequence to the community," it said. 
 
 Bhujbal sought bail after SC last November scrapped a PMLA provision that made seeking bail difficult. Through counsel Vikram Chaudhary, he argued that since SC struck down Section 45 which required an accused to show he is not involved in money laundering, his plea for bail should be considered as it is for regular penal offences with no special burden cast on the accused. After SC order, over 20 such accused were given bail, his advocates said. 
 
 Opposing bail, the ED counsel cited Section 24 of PMLA which stipulates "presumption" of money laundering. It says, "When a person is accused of having committed the offence... burden of proving that proceeds of crime are untainted property shall be on the accused." But Bhujbal's counsel said this kicks in only during trial. Singh said it would apply even at the stage of a bail hearing.
 
 ED argued Bhujbal's offence was serious and included two government properties-the Sadan and Andheri RTO office. Singh said the FIR was lodged on an HC order appointing an SIT to probe "alleged malpractices in awarding contracts of construction of Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi and Kalina library to KS Chamankar Enterprises and India Bulls Pvt Ltd respectively." The allegations were that Bhujbal misused his post as state PWD minister.
 
 
