CAPE TOWN: "Can it get better than this," exclaimed   over the phone back in Nov 2016, after hearing that the national selection committee had picked him for the first two Tests against England.

 
 
 Pandya was on Cloud Nine. Just like many who can't believe the rise and rise of this cricketer from Choryasi, a village near Surat in Gujarat, Pandya himself has taken time to comprehend his own success. "I like taking challenges head on," Pandya had said back then.
 
 
 
 From that day on, Pandya hasn't time to look back. It's been a hurried forward march for the   cricketer. The   franchise can certainly lay claim to having found him and nurtured his talent.
 
 
 
 In August last year, a phenomenal hundred at Kandy underlined his already marked arrival. He became only the second Indian to score a Test century in one session.
 
 On Saturday, in Cape Town, Pandya added all the muscle he could to an already growing reputation, scoring 93 runs on the Newlands wicket when no other Indian batsman managed to get past even the 30-run mark.
 
 He also added to his allround stature by removing the South African openers when it was India's turn to bowl.
 
 Pandya missed out on what could've been an excellent Test hundred but helped India reduce the deficit by a good margin. That India went from 81-6 when Pandya arrived at the scene to 199-8 by the time he left shows the kind of face-saving act he pulled off for India.
 
 It wasn't a chanceless knock.   missed out on a stumping when Pandya just about started his innings. During his 153-minute stay at the crease, the all-rounder even took body blows, one in particular from Rabada rocketing into his abdomen.
 
 However, to Pandya goes the credit for showing his teammates that batting on this Newlands strip, barring the early hour of play on Day One, isn't as tough as it may have seemed.
 
 For those who may not know the 24-year-old's complete profile yet, he quit education in Class IX. "I'm a Phd in ninth class," he likes to say. But for the education he may have missed, it was his brother Krunal - who got married last month - and coach Jitubhai who helped him find his feet.
 
 Having taken a break during the home series against Sri Lanka, Pandya said he wanted to remain "fresh" for the SA tour and was in fact quoted as saying, "I think I'll be the difference".
 
 On Saturday, he certainly was.
 
  
  
 
