BENGALURU: Technology giant   has signed an MoU with BMRCL to adopt the upcoming   station on Outer Ring Road along the   Board Junction - KR Puram corridor (Phase II A).

 It is also likely to have a direct access between the station and Intel’s campus in Bellandur. The company will get naming and advertisement rights as well as retail space in the station for 30 years. The Rs 100-crore MoU was signed by BMRCL managing director Mahendra Jain and Nivruti Rai, country head, Intel India, on January 17.
 
 This is the second MoU under BMRCL’s innovative financing model. In June 2017, Embassy Group signed a Rs 100-crore MoU with BMRCL to adopt Kadubeesanahalli Metro station. “Two companies have come forward for the ORR Metro line so far. We’re also in talks with five-six companies, including Prestige Group and Bagmane Group,” Jain told TOI.
 
 The Rs 4,200-crore elevated line running into 17km on ORR line is also the first Metro project that uses the innovative-financing concept. While approving the ORR Metro line, the cabinet had stated that Rs 1,100 crore has to be raised through innovative financing.
 
 Jain said they will float a tender after getting approval from the cabinet.
 
 The 13 Metro stations along the ORR line – Silk Board Junction, HSR Layout, Agara Junction, Iblur Junction, Bellandur, Kadubeesanahalli, Marathahalli Junction, ISRO Layout, Doddanekkundi, DRDO   Complex, Mahadevapura and KR Puram – are expected to cover the entire IT corridor and likely to reduce traffic congestion. 
 
 Biotechnology major   and tech giant Infosys have shown interest in adopting the upcoming Hebbagodi and Electronics City stations, respectively, on the 19km line between R V Road station and Bommasandra. Wipro may also adopt one station. The companies will have to maintain the station as per the specifications laid by BMRCL.
 
 In 2009, BMRCL entered into a public-private partnership (PPP) agreement for construction of Swastik Metro station on Sampige Road in Malleswaram. The station was developed by the Mantri Developers according to the design and technical aspects provided by the BMRCL and named Mantri Square Sampige Road.
 
 
