CHANDIGARH: Four eminent photographers have come together to display their work at   Kala Bhawan in Sector 9.

 The exhibition that commenced on March 9 and would be held till March 18 showcases young girls and women.
 
 
  Allen, a UKbased photographer, in her segment ‘You Will live In This World Like A Daughter’ said that during her research in   and nearby villages, she found out that the ratio of women was much lower than the national average. “Hence, I wanted to know how it was to be a daughter in Punjab. In my interactions, I discovered that women were put under a lot of pressure to give birth to a son,” Jocelyn said and added that her work depicts women born and living in patriarchal communities, who constantly struggle to reveal themselves.
 
 Jocelyn’s photographs move between hiding and revealing, while simultaneously questioning women’s identity and their exposure. “If you look closely, you will notice that many women in the portraits are seen standing with their backs turned towards the camera,” She said.
 
 Similarly, Andrea Fernandes in her segment ‘Girl Gaze: Journeys Through Punjab and Black Country’ tried to explore Punjab and its diaspora communities in the West Midlands through the voices of girls and women.
 
 “The whole idea of my work is about perception and how I met so many women. I, with my work, have tried to highlight patriarchy, gender, tradition and culture,” Andrea said.
 
  Pattison, who is also from the UK, in her segment ‘Pudding Moon and The River of Dreams’ showcases a sleeping child and her mother singing lullaby; moon-bathed landscapes, with a man in a turban; glowing embroidery in sun, etc.
 
 “My photographs are based on the rich tradition of lullaby (loris),” Jennifer said.
 
 Meanwhile, pictures of   are drenched in nostalgia and melancholia, and reveal hidden truths behind lives of many British-Punjabi and Indian Punjabi women — painting a psychological map of their lives over the course of the last 70 years.
 
 “I have tried to narrate and build a tapestry of stories and voices of these women. A lot of my work is around the theme of home and what does it mean to imagine an alien country and how to immigrate.
 
 “I have these women to participate in the creation of these artworks by giving them small cameras and asked them to photograph anything that they want to shoot. With this, I tried to capture their voices,” Uzma said.
 
