BHOPAL: The   during violence in the Dalit-called   in Madhya Pradesh reached eight on Tuesday with one body found in Bhind in the wee hours and another at 8am. Apart from cops being fired at in   and stones pelted at the bungalow of BJP minister Lal Singh Arya, there was no major flare-up in any of the trouble-torn areas.

 And as the administration got down to analysing why the violence was so intense, reports trickled in that the protesters may have been misled that reservation for SCs was being scrapped altogether. This is what triggered the fury.
 
 Curfew continues to be in force in violence-hit areas of Gwalior like Thathipur, Murar and Gola, but was lifted in Maharajpura. Bhind was jolted by four deaths linked to the ‘Bharat bandh’ violence — Mahaveer Singh Rajavat, Akash Garg, Pradeep Jatav and Dashrath Jatav. Dashrath’s body was found at a farm in Raun, about 40km from Bhind town, around 8am. He was among bandh supporters but was left alone after police lathicharged the mob. Police say he was beaten to death with iron rods and sticks but it’s not known who lynched him. Pradeep’s body was found a few hours earlier.
 
 Rajavat was killed in police firing as cops mistook his group to be rioters when they were on their way to file a complaint about bandh supporters damaging property and forcing them to shut shop. Two constables of Machand police post have been booked for his death.
 
 IG-intelligence Makrand Deoskar told media that the situation is under control and efforts are being made to arrest those involved in the violence. “After recovery of a body this morning, the death toll in MP is seven,” said the IG, adding that they are not counting the murder of Rahul Pathak in Morena among the bandh casualties. A rival took advantage of the violence to settle personal scores and shot him dead as he stood outside his house, say police.
 
 Deoskar said 29 FIRs have been registered in Gwalior, 10 in Morena and 12 in Bhind. Police are trying to identify the man in a viral video who is seen firing a revolver on the streets of Gwalior. An FIR has been registered against suspect ‘Raja Chauhan’ for culpable homicide, but his family insists he is being framed. They plan to sue a BSP leader who ‘identified’ the shooter as Raja on social media.
 
 In Bhind, 31people have been charged with rioting, arson and disrupting communal harmony. The police headquarters has alerted SPs to be vigilant and act tough against anyone disrupting communal harmony.
 
 Internet was restored in Gwalior late Tuesday night. As many as 5,953 arms licences have been scrapped in curfew areas and 65 suspects arrested, said police sources.
 
 
