When  , the play by daughters of sex workers of  , pulled over in Hyderabad for its India premier on Sunday evening, over 3,000 Hyderabadis hopped on it making the hall look like a Mumbai local train, packed to the hilt. And thus, the audience was ready to chug along with the 10 performers, all born to sex workers and trafficked at a young age, to get a peek into the dark alleys of Kamathipura, one of Asia’s oldest and largest red light districts.
The 90-minute-long interactive play took the audience through four ‘stations’ in the lives of children born and raised in brothels. To break the ice and highlight the deeply-ingrained stereotypes about sex workers in the public psyche, the play began by asking volunteers from the audience to pose as a shy girl; a Muslim; a transgender, and finally, a 13-year-old sex worker on stage. The idea was to make the audience realise that sex workers too are human beings and they too have emotions like us. The exercise evoked strong reactions from the audience with some admitting that they could have never imagined what sex workers go through, had it not been for this play.
 Laden with high emotional points, the play was less dramatic, and more narrative. By using bed sheets as a metaphor for prostitution, the actors highlighted their struggles by battling with the sheets, before neatly folding and keeping them aside, thus signifying how they have accepted their troubled pasts and moved on.
 By giving each of the 10 actors’ stories a distinct voice, the play showcased how each woman dealt with her struggles and overcame them in her unique way. While 22-year-old  , who was raised in a brothel, went on to study abroad and even won an award from the  . Her true victory, she asserted, was when she accepted herself as the dark-skinned daughter of a sex worker. For 20-year-old  , the real victory was when she realised that she was more than just a ‘rescue’ saved by an NGO; she could now turn rescuer by helping children in similar situations overcome their ordeals. Another 40-year-old sex worker’s gritty story showed the audience how she ‘bedded’ extra clients so that she could make enough money to give dignified burials to HIV victims from Kamathipura. Thus, Laal Batti Express, gave each of the women a voice that gave us a peek into the unspoken struggles of their unseen lives. 
 
