CHENNAI: It is common knowledge that the wholesale prices of vegetable are lower than retail rates. But were you aware that the turnip (nookal), radish (mullangi),   and   (pudalangai) you bought at the store in your neighbourhood for 30- 40 a kg were actually sourced by the store owner for a mere 5- 10 a kg? The more than four-fold jump in prices is mainly due to unethical practices by middlemen, landlords and retail traders apart from wastage and transport charges, say those in the trade. 

 Unscrupulous landlords, who flout norms and charge shopkeepers excessive rentals, are the main culprits, according to city-based entrepreneur V  . "In prime locations, the rental rates are more than double the market value. As a result,   on the cost to the consumer by hiking prices. To stabilize prices, the Centre must bring rental rates under the purview of Goods and   (GST)," said Karthikeyan. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 When it comes to the vegetable trade, middlemen, who bear transport costs, toll rates and labour charges, make a kill, while farmers and consumers suffer.
 
 Koyambedu vegetables, fruits and flowers traders’ welfare association treasurer P G M Sukumar said, “Genuine traders only charge consumers in accordance with the prices at Koyambedu wholesale market. Others do not reduce prices when the prices at Koyambedu drop.”
 
 Retailers claim vegetable prices jump manifold by the time they reach the local market due to various factors.
 
 D Vijaykumar of Vijay Stores at Thiruvanmiyur, said, “I procure vegetables from the Thiruvanmiyur and T Nagar vegetable markets as I do nothave manpower to make a trip to Koyambedu daily. I charge a fair price to consumers and earn a small profit.”
 
 Farmers, too, suffer. A coconut, which costs ₹5 at the farm nearest to the city, retails at ₹30. Vegetables travel a minimum of 100km to reach the city daily. Tamil Nadu All Farmers Associations’ coordination committee president P R Pandian said the Centre must offer storage infrastructure to preserve excess yield and also fix the prices of vegetables to prevent middlemen from fixing exorbitant rates. “The Centre’s policy seems to be aimed at crushing small farmers to favour big businesses.”
 
 Most farmers took a big hit this season and may not have the capital to raise the next set of crops.
 
 Koyambedu vegetables, fruits and flowers traders’ welfare association president M Thyagarajan said, “The price of vegetables will rise rapidly from March if the yield from the second crop (expected in last week of February) reduces.”
 
 
 
 
