MUMBAI:   coach   was severely criticised on social media after India’s 14-match unbeaten streak was brought to a halt by Kyrgyzstan in March this year and the Englishman went on a rant while speaking to the media here on Saturday.

 
 
 
 Amidst reports of a falling out between Constantine and some senior members of the squad, the calls for his ouster grew louder. Constantine, though, said those who want him to be sacked “must be out of their minds”. Comparing India’s unbeaten run to world champions Germany, Constantine said that this is the best possible team India have ever had. 
 
 
 
 “We’ve gone 14-games unbeaten, qualified for the Asian Cup by topping our group, won the SAFF Cup and the Intercontinental Cup. There are 15 quality players smashing the door down, trying to get into the national team. Who in his right mind can complain about the national team or the guy who is leading the team (Constantine)?
 
 “If you have a complaint, it’s because you don’t like me or you don’t like the way we play football. I don’t care. Apart from Germany, there is no other team that was in such form. People who say they don’t like the coach should leave. They must be mad,” he bellowed.
 
 The national team is in the city for a preparatory camp ahead of the Intercontinental Cup featuring Kenya, New Zealand and Chinese Taipei. South Africa were due to participate in the June 1-10 tournament, but pulled out at the last moment. Kenya were named as their replacements.
 
 Constantine said the tournament was an ideal preparation for the Asian Cup. “The tournament is very important for our progression and our development. It’s good that New Zealand are coming, as they are a strong team. Chinese Taipei have improved in the last four to five months under Gary White and I know Kenya will be strong and physical. So it’s a good challenge for us,” he said.
 
 Constantine has also been facing a lot of flak for his team selection, but he seemed undeterred as ever, saying that he’s obsessed with wanting India to succeed. “I don’t do anything by accident. Some of you may not like that I didn’t pick this player or that player and that’s fine. Everyone has their opinion and when you are in this position, you will decide. But I build teams. I did it in Rwanda, Malawi, Sudan and I am doing it here again for the second time.”
 
 “If I don’t pick a player it doesn’t mean that I have anything against them. It is just that they do not do what we need them to do in this national team,” he added.
 
