THANE: The dense clutch of chawls and cheek-by-jowl dingy homes spread across the Lake City are set for a transformation into swanky highrise apartments, huge open spaces, wider roads and tree-lined footpaths following the municipal administration’s declaration on Wednesday to flag off cluster   plans in six months.

 The plan is to strip the old, cluttered sprawl spread across the city, and redesign the newly-carved 43 zones into a modern colony with recreation and play area amenities to match global standards.
 
 “Thane will lay the benchmark for future   redevelopment plans. In fact, we will be the first city in the nation where a meticulous plan and design has begun as part of an   overhaul,” guardian minister   said at a press conference on Wednesday.
 
 Around 149 hectares of occupied land, equal to four Bandra-Kurla Complexes, will undergo a massive infrastructure revamp, with plans to optimize land usage for amenities, while protecting heritage structures and natural bodies.
 
 Nearly 13 lakh residents will get access to ‘affordable’ homes along with adequate infrastructure as the plans ensure optimization of land for facilities like roads and amenities. A maximum FSI of 1:4 will be made available, depending on the situation.
 
 Municipal commissioner   said the draft of the plans will be made public by next week and citizens will get two months to submit suggestions and objections.
 
 He said the final scheme will be readied by May-end and implementation will begin by October.
 
 The civic administration is simultaneously mulling a centralized stock of flats for temporarily rehabilitating residents while undertaking cluster redevelopment in any area.
 
 “We are in talks with real estate industry wherein we could allocate space for them to construct houses that can be leased by the administration or the contractor concerned, making it a viable solution as the resident will get assured rehabilitation space while the contractor will be able to implement the project faster,” Jaiswal said.
 
 
