UTTARKASHI/DEHRADUN: When the rhododendron blooms in Uttarakhand, there is a special cheer that spreads in the hills which only the beautiful red flowers can bring. This time, though, it has brought worries, for both growers and experts.

 Found at altitudes ranging from 1,500 to 3,600 metres, the flowers have begun blooming in January instead of March-April. Most hold climate change in the middle Himalayan region as cause for the turn in the flower's cycle. Not only has the winter been warmer this year, it was also been very dry.
 
 Scientists said the dry spell and absence of snowfall this season could be the reason for the early blooms. These early flowers don’t have proper colour, nectar, size or quantity, they said, which impacts their medicinal qualities. Early fruiting is being noticed in some other plants as well.
 
 Some have noticed rhododendrons blooming as early as December this winter. “Usually the flowers need temperatures between 15 and 20 degrees Celsius to bloom, which they normally get around March-April,” said  , an expert with the Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Uttarkashi. “However, in some recent years, the average maximum temperature in the Uttarkashi region has hovered around 20 degrees Celsius in January or late December itself. This forces the flower to bloom before its time.”
 
 Worried,  , a rhododendron grower from Bagori, said, “We used to feel happy earlier that spring would bring more income to us. But with such rapid and unpredictable changes in the flowering (of the tree), we are not sure if we should continue with the cottage industry of making juice from the flower. Some of us started this business four years ago in Uttarkashi but are already thinking of doing something else.”
 
 Dr Manisha Thapliyal, scientist at the Forest Research Institute, Dehradun, said the less rainfall was the primary reason for physiological stress in Himalayan plant species.
 
 “This is primarily related to less rainfall. It was almost a dry spell this time, with little snowfall. A changing climate definitely has a role to play. We have seen similar early fruiting of kafal (Myrica esculenta). It’s been happening in the recent past. Soon, the rhododendron will adapt itself to the new environment,” she said.
 
 According to the expert, the change is not just being observed in Himalayan species but in tropical species as well. “We have learnt about the early flowering of mangoes. The actual cause is to be ascertained though,” Thapliyal said. 
 
 Dr Mahendra Pal  , professor of botany at  , said, “The impact of global warming is clearly visible in the rhododendron tree. Such immature flowers don’t get proper color, nectar, size or quantity. This may also compromise the medicinal qualities of burans, as it is called locally.”
 
 The juice of the flower is known to be useful for the heart, kidney and liver, and also for patients with digestive problems. It has antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and anti-diabetic qualities.
 
 “Of course, such early flowering would hit all those in the business of selling juice and other products made from burans,” Parmar said.
 
 ADG (climate change) Dr V R S   from the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, Dehradun, struck a note of caution on linking the unseasonal rhododendron flowering to climate change.
 
 “We do know that there is lesser moisture in the forest floor (first layer of the soil that’s covered with leaves and twigs) this year, something that has led to forest fires in Uttarakhand during winters — which is abnormal. Similarly, the rhododendron tree might be facing physiological changes. But greater study needs to be done before linking it with climate change. We need to have consistency of such data,” Rawat said.
 
 Head of one of the leading self-help groups involved in burans trade, Tehri-based Roopesh Kumar Rai, said, “The change will hit each of us linked to trade in burans byproducts. Much of it was being sent to states outside Uttarakhand. We are afraid that in coming days there might not be any rhododendron juice to serve.”
 
