BENGALURU: It’s star campaigners for BJP and roadshows for Congress. As   elections fast approach a climax, political campaigns have picked up pace, kicking up heat and dust across the state.

 
  data accessed by TOI on permissions sought by parties show up a clear campaign pattern.
 
 The BJP is aggressively making the most of its elite arsenal: Prime Minister  , national chief Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister   and others, who have been addressing conventions across the state. To fly these star campaigners swiftly from place to place, BJP has approached the EC more than 90 times, since elections were announced in March-end. In the same period, Congress sought permission for helicopters and helipads only 36 times, and JD(S) 35 times.
 
 BJP local leader A L Shivakumar, who has knowhow on managing campaigns, said Union ministers, party dignitaries and chief ministers of BJP ruled states are landing every alternative day, and the party needs helicopters to fly them to the districts.
 
 “The Congress, though, is dependent only on chief minister Siddaramaiah and AICC president   to tour the state,” he added.
 
 While BJP has placed its faith in mega conventions addressed by star campaigners, Congress prefers mega processions by party candidates. Seeking permit for processions and loudspeaker arrangements, Congress has knocked the EC doors 711 times, BJP 546 times and JD(S) 400 times.
 
 A Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) member said they are banking on processions and roadshows by leaders, which they claim are pulling in the crowds.
 
 Social activist Paramesh PK, a resident of Nelamangala, said financial constraints may have restricted the JD(S) to fewer political conventions and road shows, compared to the national parties. “Most of the JD(S) rallies are managed by candidates themselves, with the party head office organizing them,” he added.
 
 Karnataka joint chief electoral officer Surya Sen AV said parties also seek permits for vehicles, to open temporary party offices and to hold street corner meetings. “All requests are processed by an online platform ‘Suvidha’, a single-window system for candidates and political parties to apply for permission,” he added.
 
