JALANDHAR: Even as SAD has raked up an old demand of amendment to Article 25-B of the Constitution to champion the cause of Sikhs, party president   denies it was out of any political need. However, he did not want to discuss that in the past the demand remained relegated to the backburner when SAD was ruling in Punjab.

 Sukhbir has also revealed that SAD would be holding a meeting of its leadership in the next couple of days and discuss how the issue should be pursued. “We have yet to receive a response from the Union government after our delegation raised the issue and we are confident things would move ahead,” he said. “Sometimes things get out of mind when out of sight and I don’t want to get into the past,” he said on Thursday.
 
 Responding to another query, he denied that SAD was raising it to regain lost ground in Punjab. “We have not raised it for any immediate political gain but it is a genuine and very important issue for the Sikhs. The SAD being voice of the Sikhs, is raising the demand. It has always remained voice of the Sikhs and we don’t need any certificate from anybody for that,” he maintained.
 
 His father Parkash Singh Badal, who remained face of the agitation for the demand as he burnt a copy of Article 25-B of the Constitution in February 1984 and the incident became a reference point in contemporary history. When asked that after coming to power in Punjab, SAD did not pursue it strongly, Sukhbir said, “Let’s not go in the past. Now, we are here to follow it and to take it to a logical conclusion.”
 
 Asked if it could be a flash point between the SAD and   if the Union government did not bring the amendment, he said, “Why should we think like that as we are confident that it would be done due to the sheer genuineness of the cause. Sikhism is a separate religion and Sikhs have a separate identity. We are just demanding to recognize the truth in the Constitution. Moreover, the demand does not hurt anybody or is against any community.”
 
 Sukhbir denied that SAD raised it after the   government’s move on triple talaq, which was also a very sensitive issue. He also held that RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat’s recent statement that those living in India were Hindus would not have any bearing on Akalis’ demand.
 
