 is a sensation even though his first movie is yet to be released. He lives the life of a celebrity — travels by air, lives in starred hotels… one of his fans has already offered a price of rupees two crore to own him, while scores of fans wait for a selfie with him. But Mani is quite unperturbed by this sudden fame, and when in Chennai, he loves to live an ordinary life. He loves going barefoot and hates fancy shoes, colourful caps and branded shades. What he loves is munching on biscuits and playing outdoors. 

 Mani is the dog who has acted alongside   in  .  , his trainer and current owner, says that Mani will be seen throughout the movie. He is in almost every frame, it seems, be it stunt scenes or song sequences. 
 
 He travels along with Rajini throughout the story, says Simon. But Simon is not ready to reveal any of the memorable scenes Mani has done in the movie. “It will spoil the viewers’ interest. Let the audience watch and enjoy,” he says.
 
 Simon has trained nearly 8,000 animals for movies so far, and says that he found Mani quite by accident. “I had brought in nearly 40 dogs for approval, for this role in Kaala, but Ranjith sir did not like any of them. I got dejected thinking perhaps, I might not be able to fulfill his requirements this time. But one day, while I was driving through the suburbs near Tambaram, in my car, that I spotted Mani,” says Simon, and recalls that it was Mani’s sportive nature and fighting spirit that attracted him to the mutt. “It was almost like a dream. He just nipped across the busy road, from one end to the other, jumping over the median. I spotted him as a mere flash before my eyes, and immediately thought of taking him to the auditioning for Kaala,” reminisces Simon.
 
 However, it was not easy to get Mani to comply! “My assistants had to play hide-and-seek with him, as Mani went and hid in the bushes,” recalls Simon. The toughest part was that Mani doesn’t stay still even for moment, and is always running and jumping around. Making him sit still even for a moment is tough, says Simon. “I never thought I would be able to train him in such a short period of time, but he got used to the commands in just two weeks,” beams Simon, who has trained animals including bulls, cheetah and bears. Talking about his passion for animals, Simon says, “My dad owned Raymond circus and he loved training animals. I, too, became a trainer. However, over time, we had to shut down the circus, but my love for animals continued, and I ended up becoming an animal trainer.” 
 
 Ask him what he likes the best about Mani, and Simon smiles, “Summa ghilli mathiri guthichu vilayadarathu thaan. And that’s why I named him Mani, without going in for any fancy names.” He adds, “Ranjith sir liked Mani very much. He keeps saying that ‘Mani oru Tamilanoda naai.’ He has the valour; he is sharp, alert and very loving.”
 
 And did Mani bond with the  ? “Mani could sense Rajini sir’s arrival much before us. He would dash to the parking spot and wait for sir to open the door. Rajini sir used to give him a packet of biscuits daily, and Mani would follow him around throughout the shoot. He even had the privilege of staying in the caravan with sir. I used to worry about him soiling the caravan, but Rajini sir had no such worries. He’d say, ‘Vittiduppa, avan vilayadattum’,” says Simon, who is quick to tell us what made Mani stand out from other dogs are his eyes, ears and his lean body. Refuting some of the claims regarding the breed of the dog, Simon says that Mani is an Indian street dog, a stray. “I don’t give him any fancy food; biscuits are his favourite and he eats whatever we cook at home,” Simon adds.
 
 After the word about Mani acting with Rajini sir spread, Simon says he is extra careful about Mani. “Mani is very naughty and I have to keep an eye on him all the time. Many Rajini fans turn up, wanting to click pics with the mutt, and, a Rajini fan from Malaysia offered me two crore to own him as a pet. But how can I give him off? Mani is like my son now, and I can never leave him,” says Simon.
 
 However, blissfully unaware of all this storm that he has whipped up, Mani has quietly gone about doing his newfound job, and has already completed shooting for two films, while talks are on for a couple more. The good news is that he is part of director Bala’s film, too.
 
