IDUKKI: On Friday evening, in a meet brokered by Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC), there finally appeared to be a resolution in sight to the land row involving the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese, which was fast becoming an embarrassment for the entire Syro Malabar church.

 Cardinal Mar George  , whose decision allegedly caused huge financial loss to the church, is learnt to have formally apologised to the priests spearheading the campaign for his removal.
 
 The meeting, that included Malankara cardinal  , also decided to file a complaint against land broker Saju Kunnel.
 
 End in sight to row over church land deal
 
 A solution seems to have been reached in the ongoing controversy over the land deals in the   archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar Church. At a reconciliation meeting held in Kochi on Friday, Cardinal George Alencherry, the head of the Church, is learnt to have apologized to the priests of the archdiocese for the controversial land deals.
 
 Friday’s meeting was initiated by the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council (KCBC) after the bickering over the issue started spreading to the other dioceses of the Church. It was held in the presence of   major archbishop   and other KCBC officials.
 
 The meeting also decided to file a police complaint against land broker Saju Varghese Kunnel for the financial loss suffered in the deal, said Fr Benny Maramparampil who had headed the six-member panel appointed by the Church to probe the deals. “Saju Varghese has already credited Rs 13.5 crore to the archdiocese account. The cardinal will be attending a meeting of the Presbyteral Council of the archdiocese called in Kochi on Saturday to discuss the future course of action. A meeting of the priests of the archdiocese will, meanwhile, be held on Monday. The Presbyteral Council meeting is expected to take a final decision to the issue,” said Fr Benny.
 
 The resolution comes following six rounds of talks held between Cardinal Alencherry and representatives of the priests of the archdiocese. The talks were mediated by Latin archbishop Soosa Pakiam, who is also the president of KCBC, Cardinal Cleemis and KCBC spokesperson Fr Varghese Vallikkat.
 
 It has now been decided to sell two lands owned by the archdiocese to pay off its debts. Presently, the archdiocese is paying Rs 75 lakh per month towards loan interest for a medical college it had planned to set up. The project has since been cancelled and efforts are on to sell the land acquired for it at  .
 
 It was in 2016, the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese appointed a committee to sell five plots of land owned by it in and around Kochi to pay off its debt. It is alleged that land worth around Rs 27 crore was sold for about Rs 13.5 crore. One of the priests involved in the deal allegedly told the church committee that probed the deal that Rs 26 crore was received but only Rs 8 crore was credited in the church’s account, a police complaint had stated.
 
