CENTURION: Right now, Indian captain   has a happy problem of plenty. The team that stepped out to play the first of the six One-dayers against South Africa on Thursday can bat right up to No. 8. On the bowling front, at any given point of time, the skipper can choose from six or even seven options — six bowlers were used on Thursday – to give the team a massive advantage over any opposition.

 
 
 
 So, when Kohli says this Indian team has found its “core” in the run-up to the 2019 ICC World Cup, he is quite certain of the team configurations he can pull off impressively. It is not just the options at hand that makes Kohli’s team look so dangerous.
 
 India’s ability to slow down the tempo of the game and then raise it when needed has been another reason behind their winning run.
 
 “We don’t want to be one-dimensional. All options are open. We look at characters before we look at skill. We look at a guy who scored 40 when the team needed it the most, compared to a guy who has scored runs but might not have affected the state of the game that much. We look for gamechangers, we look for guys who embrace pressure,” said Kohli.
 
 Here’s what  , the South African skipper, had to say after the Durban game: “They slowed the game down, they got wickets through the middle period. If you can get wickets through the middle period, you’ll win a lot of One-day games. We couldn’t do that”.
 
 It wasn’t only about India’s slow bowlers enforcing it out on the field when South Africa batted. On the eve of the Durban match, when Kohli said the team was looking at Rahane to come in at No. 4, he was merely stating in words what has been on India’s mind all this while. The Mumbai batsman’s ability to tire out an attack makes him a delightful proposition in the longer format. Then, his ability to switch gears and go after the bowling makes him a good limited-overs option as well.
 
 Rahane’s 86-ball 79, studded with five boundaries and two sixes, was certainly one of his best ODI outings yet.
 
