NEW DELHI: Several colleges of   are thinking about seeking autonomy, and teachers are not happy. Teachers of St Stephen’s are particularly anxious because, according to them, theirs is a small institution which will not be able to take the financial pressure and academic strains that   will entail. The University Grants Commission clearly states in its guidelines that while colleges will have the freedom to start new courses, funding them will be their problem. It will also not allow its funds to be utilized for new posts or constructions in the college. With such riders, teachers are afraid that their institutions will face terminal decline.

 St Stephen’s made its intention to move towards autonomy public in February last year, with a statement from the principal, John Varghese, clarifying that the “proposal to seek autonomy has no adverse impact on the service conditions of the permanent staff, nor will it affect the course content or the fee structure of the present students of the college.” 
 
  
 However, teachers claim that in the one year since then, housing rules for senior permanent faculty have been changed, students who have dissented against the administration have been arbitrarily removed from their hostel accommodation, and tactics of intimidation have been adopted against staff and students. They see all this as a fallout of the institution’s quest for autonomy. According to a letter from the members of the staff to the UGC chairperson, the housing rules have been changed in a way that 50% of it can now be allotted to anyone as the principal pleases. “The principal is given the discretion to bypass seniority and allot 50% of the housing at his pleasure; these rules would also permit him to cancel allotment already made and allow college officials to enter the family houses at any time of day or night without prior notice,” the letter reads. Calls to the principal from TOI went unanswered.
 
 The effect of autonomy, according to one teacher who wished to remain anonymous, will be far more “disastrous” than just the loss of a few houses. “Stephen’s is a small college known for its academic excellence. However, we do not have expertise in all fields. But being in a system that allows exchange of ideas and expertise, we have grown over time learning from others in the university,” he explained. He said that with autonomy, the college will be expected to rely on its limited resources to generate funds and ensure academic excellence, which will lead to rot setting in. “Right now we have teachers from other departments of the university taking part in creation of papers and revision of syllabus. Once the college is cut off, imagine the same teacher creating the same kind of papers year after year, the same ideas being taught over and over again. What will happen to the academic excellence then? To be autonomous, we also need resident experts in every field,” the teacher pointed out.
 
 Teachers argue that with the freedom to start self-financing courses but lack of fund support from the government, the colleges will have to rely on subjects and programmes that can pay for themselves. “Courses like history, philosophy and other liberal arts are not very marketable but equally important. They create thinkers. But a college like Stephen’s will start training air hostesses and conducting IAS and English speaking classes to stay afloat,” he said, perhaps with some exaggeration.
 
 A teacher from SRCC, while explaining the economics of autonomy, gave the examples of two Chennai institutions. “These were colleges known for their standards in our times. They were granted autonomy, and they started self-financing courses. They have declined disastrously. Why else would students from down south come to Delhi University, when such institutions still exist? It because they have no decent choice there,” he said. 
 
 The SRCC teacher explained that since UGC will not fund creation of new posts or courses, colleges will have to break even by either keeping the fees low and number of students high, or the fees high and cap its student capacity. This also means that the student-teacher ratio will get skewed. “Until now, colleges have realised that more students and medium fees have worked in their favour to stay afloat. But where will the increased strength sit? Children can move around DU college campuses freely because of the space. Will that be possible if the student volume increases? No new construction will be allowed with the grant money,” he said. A Stephen’s teacher said that the change in teacher housing rules was one way to ensure space for the increased strength of students. “They will stuff children in small classes, houses and canteens to stay afloat,” she said.
 
 
