Chennai:   shops selling snacks, ice creams and trinkets continue to mushroom on the sands of Marina in spite of repeated attempts by Chennai   to regulate them. The number of stalls has gone up from 1,700 to nearly 2,000 in the past seven months. There were 1,400 stalls two years ago. 

 A corporation official said that, “The latest survey showed the number of shops on Marina was nearly 2,000. A plan to rehabilitate the vendors has not taken off as officials are unable to identify the actual number of beneficiaries. Streamlining has been done often, but the vendors are unwilling to move.”
 
 After a few failed attempts, the corporation is planning to regulate the vendors again in a month. The official said, “When it comes to regulations we don’t see any cooperation from vendors. So we have submitted a complaint to the deputy commissioner of police Mylapore and Triplicane and with the help of police e will streamline all the shops by arranging them into eight rows on the beach. This streamlining is expected to be done after a month. But the vendors do not want to arrange their stalls in a row because they fear that those who get space closer to the water lose business. 
 
 The vendors have been demanding a committee. So the civic body is planning to set up a committee for vendors which will be under the executive engineer”. 
 
 Though the Tamil Nadu government has been directed by the high court to implement schemes to regulate vendors on the beach, the corporation finds it difficult to implement order as the vendors are unwilling for any change. In April, 2017, the corporation put the vendors into eight rows on Marina beach but more shops have come up while many have moved the stalls.
 
 Joshna, senior citizen who frequently visits the beach, said, “The beach has been destroyed as the shops on the beach affect the view. Not everyone comes to eat, many want to relax and are bothered by the vendors. Though the corporation regulates them, it is just temporary as the vendors don’t care about rules.”
 
 The quality of food sold by the vendors is also poor. The food safety department has received 1,900 complaints in the past year. As the food stalls on the beach have increased, the complaints from the customers too have gone up.
 
 A check by the food safety department showed that most of the vendors at the beach use reheated oils, add colour powder in foods and don’t follow hygienic practises. A food safety department official said that these shops do not have any licence but should at least get registration to operate. 
 
 
