PATNA: The regional headquarters of the   ( ) in Patna on Wednesday claimed that cash crisis had eased slightly after certain prompt actions were prescribed by the banking regulator on Tuesday night for improving the availability of currency notes in the state.

 According to RBI officials in Patna, directives were issued to the currency chests for providing notes of all denominations to different banks on a frequent basis. Currency chests are branches of selected banks authorized by the RBI to stock rupee notes and coins. There are 135 currency chests in   and 82 in Jharkhand.
 
 A statement issued by the RBI at Patna on Wednesday morning stated, “There is sufficient stock of currency notes in all denominations available with the banks. The supply of adequate amount of cash remittances from the currency chests to the different bank branches will be made soon.” 
 
 Prasoon Kumar Sharma, manager of human resource development department at the regional headquarters of the RBI, urged people to rely on alternate modes of cashless transactions as the issue of cash shortage “will be resolved as soon as possible”. He also assured that adequate amount of Rs 2,000 notes would be supplied to different bank branches.
 
 An official of the   branch on   pointed out that prompt action was taken by the RBI on Tuesday night. “We were directed to start working from 8am so that cash could be made available at all the starving ATMs later in the day,” he told this reporter on Wednesday.
 
 The manager of the branch, on the other hand, claimed there was no hue and cry for cash. “As of now, we have received no complaints of cash shortage in ATMs. I think it entirely depends on how the currency is being managed by a particular branch,” he said, wishing anonymity.
 
 According to city residents, the situation was manageable. “We are managing somehow... Cash is available in some ATMs, but most of them have a no cash board displayed outside them,” said Afreen Ashraf, spotted at an SBI ATM on Boring Road.
 
 Cash crisis, however, continued to prevail in several districts, including Nawada, Motihari and Gaya, making it a daunting task for the residents to hop on from one ATM to another in search of money. Bhagalpur and Buxar were exceptions as maximum number of ATMs and banks there were reported to have adequate amount of currency.
 
 Experts claimed that many ATMs and banks ran out of cash owing to unusual spurt in the demand for currency. “These are the after-effects of demonetization as sufficient amount of currency was not produced by the government to meet the existing needs. It was a myth that digitization would bridge the demand for cash as more than half of the population lacks electronic literacy,” D M Diwakar, economics professor at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies told this newspaper.
 
 
