Shimla: In the 2014 parliamentary elections, the Congress in Himachal Pradesh had failed to win a single seat despite being in power in the state and Centre. Now, with the BJP in power at the state and Centre, it faces the challenge of repeating its last performance of winning all four seats of Hamirpur, Mandi, Shimla and Kangra. 

 To lead the fight against the government, the Congress held a two-day workers’ conventions in Hamirpur and Kangra on Saturday after which it decided to make price rise and law and order situation a major poll issue. On the other hand, the BJP is holding its legislature party meeting in Shimla on May 22 to devise its strategy for the coming polls. Sources said that the Congress had decided to corner the BJP governments at the state and Centre on the issues of price rise, law and order and false promises of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
 In Hamirpur, party workers had raised the issue of lack of coordination between the party organization and state government in the past that resulted in the debacle in the assembly elections. It is struggling to put up a united show as its state leaders are indulging in a battle of supremacy, the sources said. 
 
 During the conventions Congress co-incharge for the state Ranjeeta Ranjan was also present, where most of the speakers said that the organisation was strong and the only need was to have unity among party leaders for the victory in the coming elections. It has also been suggested that the candidate for each parliamentary seat should be finalized six months before the polls so that he or she could work and reach out to people of a parliamentary constituency.
 
 State Congress president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu claimed that Congress leaders and workers were united and in the coming days there would be no factionalism. “Soon, a united Congress would corner the BJP on the issues of public importance,” he added. Sukhu said that on May 26, Modi government would complete four years in power and the Congress would organize a foot march against price rise. “We will also apprise the people about false promises made by Modi to the people of state in the 2014 elections,” he said.
 
 The BJP on its part too is gearing up for the coming election and on May 22 it had called the meeting of its legislature party in Shimla that would be chaired by chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who will take feedback from MLAs about the functioning of his government and on the developmental projects, so that necessary improvements could be done accordingly, the sources further said.
 
 Thakur would also make his legislators active for the coming parliamentary elections by effectively countering the Opposition propaganda against the party and the government because the BJP had set the target of winning all four parliamentary seats.
 
 
