Chandigarh: Deep Complex area of Hallomajra and commercial booths of Sector 8 have finally started getting water connections, as they have got sewer lines in their respective buildings for proper disposal of water. However, there are numerous structures constructed outside the Lal Dora (red line) and in the peripheral areas of the Chandigarh, those are yet to get   due to lack of proper sewer lines for water disposal and also absence of any policy.

 The matter to provide water connection to the houses constructed outside the Lal Dora areas of the city, came up for detailed discussion in the general house of the municipal corporation (MC) couple of months ago. It was discussed that the public health department of the MC disconnected water supply to most of the houses and commercial establishments situated at the peripheral areas of the city and hence, temporary water connection needs to be provided.
 
 During the discussion, the concerned officers said they can provide the water connections, but before that such houses would have to take sewerage connection for proper disposal of the water. Now, as per policy, the residents of the Deep Complex of the Hallomajra have got the sewerage connection installed and deposited fee to avail water connection.
 
 “There are still many houses constructed outside the Lal Dora area. But we are not being able to provide water connection, as they have no sewerage connection to dispose of dirty water. Every such house will have to first ensure that they have got proper water disposal system and then apply for the water connection,” said an MC official.
 
 The public health department of the MC’s engineering wing has been running a constant drive to disconnect the water supply to houses where people have taken the connections in an illegal manner. During the inspection, it was also found out that in some of the peripheral areas like Maloya, people had even punctured the main pipeline to get the water connections in their houses. Such connections were found in both residential and commercial areas of the city, situated outside the Lal Dora.
 
 
