KOLKATA: Will the state government follow IIT experts’ recommendations and raze the Vivekananda Road flyover? Or will it try and transform it into a High Line — an elevated greenway or a rail trail?

 These questions are doing rounds at the state secretariat,  , as officials are now aware that the IIT experts assigned to deduce the fate of the flyover, have ruled out the possibility of restoring it. Even as a section of PWD officials batted for getting   to use diamond-cutters to slice the leftover construction, a 100m part of which fell on 31 March 2016, killing 27, others were weighing on options like transforming the flyover into a High Line.
 
 Last April, a month before the IIT experts were asked to take on the survey of the flyover, senior officials led by then chief secretary Basudeb Banerjee, were part of a presentation made by NGO Public. The presentation was titled “repurposing adisaster” and proposed to convert the under-construction flyover into a High Line.
 
 
  The best example of a High Line is in New York, where a 2.3km linear park was created by the New York Central Railroad, on the west side of Manhattan. “Understanding the dilemma over demolishing it, because of the cost involved, community disruption (health effects from dust, traffic chaos and perhaps other accidents during demolition) and pollution, above all, we presented it as an elevated structure,” said  , who along with wife   Kakkar founded Public.
 
 Bonani said: “What Kolkata needs is something that would make it greener and more desirable from an outdoor public space point of view. So create something on the lines of the   and the Paris Promenade Plantee.”
 
 The couple put together a presentation based on pictures they had taken in New York in 2016 and from the site of the collapsed flyover.
 
 A day after the TOI report on IIT professors — Anandapran Gupta, Sreeman Bhattacharya and Swapan Majumdar — striking down the feasibility of restoring the Vivekananda Road flyover or rebuilding another in its place, on Tuesday, a senior PWD official said: “The High Line is a good project, which could be evolved to suit the needs of this tapering and congested stretch.”
 
 But another official said: “RVNL has already shown the way by dismantling the structures in the way of the Dakshineswar-Noapara Metro route with minimum fuss. Why not get them to erase Vivekananda Road flyover?”
 
 In fact, RVNL that is implementing the various Metro projects in Kolkata, was one of the agencies that helped dismantle the debris at the cave-in site of the Vivekananda flyover.
 
 Rajesh Prasad, executive director of Metro at RVNL said, “When you dismantle an abandoned structure like the way we did in case of the extended bridges on the Dakshineswar-Noapara route, you need to consider the impact issue. Razing would entail sound and dust. With diamond-cutters the impact is minimum.”
 
 But Samiran Sen, who was part of the team that prepared the original detailed project report of the flyover, said: “It’s not so simple. The buildings are too close.”
  
 
