VADODARA: The 66th annual convocation of M S University scheduled on January 22 will turn historic in many ways. 

 It is not only for the first time in university’s recent history that President will be gracing annual convocation ceremony, but also for the first time that hundreds of gold medalists – the brightest lot amongst the students – will not be conferred gold medals during the convocation ceremony from the hands of the chief guest. 
 
 MSU officials have decided to squeeze its traditionally long stretched convocation ceremony and make it crisper this year as the office of President of India has informed the university that President   will be able to attend the ceremony just for an hour.
 
 The university officials have been given an hour between 11 am and 12 noon to complete the entire academic ceremony which usually takes nearly two and a half hour. 
 
 Apart from handling its high profile dignitary – President Ram Nath Kovind – the university officials are struggling to adjust the protocols and presence of other dignitaries including   governor O P Kohli, who is expected to formally give his consent for the function soon. 
 
 The university is expected to extend invitees to Gujarat chief minister  , deputy chief minister  , education minister   apart from host of other officials from the state government. 
 
 Traditionally, the convocation ceremonies include a procession from university head office to the convocation ground followed by invocation, university song, opening of annual convocation, presentation of graduates, declaration of hundreds of degrees/ diplomas, welcome address, convocation address, address by chief guest, declaration of gold medals, vote of thanks, national anthem and dissolving the convocation.
 
 But given the fact that the university has just an hour to wind up the entire ceremony, the officials have decided to go for the bare minimum statutory requirements. 
 
 “This time, we have decided that all the gold medalists will be conferred the gold medals in a separate function – ‘We are Proud of You’ – that will be organised on the same day but post the convocation ceremony,” said an official. 
 
 MSU has traditionally organised the function - ‘We are Proud of You’ - on the eve of annual convocations when students are felicitated at ‘Dhanvantri’ – the official residence of MSU vice-chancellor in presence of their parents. 
 
 “But this year, this function will be held at the convocation ground itself,” said the official, adding that felicitating each and every gold medallists will not be possible during the convocation ceremony. “We are however inviting another dignitary of high stature for the ‘We are Proud of You’ programme.” 
 
 
