Acerbic, disagreeable, skin-crawling — it’s a taste you don’t forget easily. In fact, many toddlers in eastern India have their first encounter with bitter taste at a very early age. Traditionally, mothers who can’t wean their kids off, smear their breasts with a paste of neem leaves. The bitter taste is always enough to stop children from hankering for their mothers’ milk.
But if that early lesson in life is supposed to serve as a cautionary tale, it’s a spectacular failure. The Bengali community is among the most passionate gastronomic supporters of bitter food. From uchchhe and karola to leafy greens like neempata, gime shaak, hinche, polta pata and more, a variety of vegetables is turned into a mélange of stir fries, chochchori and stews to produce some remarkable delicacies, if they can be called that.
 
 
 Admittedly, few communities in the world eat as much of bitter food as Indians, and few communities in India eat as much of bitter food as Bengalis. “I have never experienced bitter food culture abroad,” said author  . “Their coffee and dark chocolate are far from the type of bitter food we have. We eat uchchhe and neem begun regularly. In my family and at my in-laws’, bitter has always been an important part of the menu. Now that summer is on its way, our bitter consumption will also go up,” she added, referring to the popular practice of eating bitter items at the season’s turn, from winter to summer.
 But why, despite its acerbic nature, does bitter food find a pride of place at our table? For its said health benefits, of course. The goodness of bitter can be traced back in the ancient scripts of Ayurvedic medicine. “Bitter causes pittanasha and that helps our digestive system. Without pittanasha our bowel can give us a lot of trouble,” said Ayurvedic practitioner Dr NK Sharma. “Bitter stuff also helps control insulin and hence is good for those suffering from diabetes. There are other benefits too that we prescribe, depending on the requirement of the patient,” the doctor added.
 
 
 The benefits of bitter food are also accepted by allopaths. “There is no doubt that bitter food increases our appetite. And this is the reason we have the tradition of eating teto before we start our main course. It is good to have thankuni pata if one is suffering from diarrhoea,” said Dr Sukomol Dey, a practising general physician. “But I have also seen in patients that regular intake of fenugreek powder had led to hypoglycaemia or alarmingly lowering the blood sugar. Without the 
 proper dosage from an Ayurvedic practitioner, it could be fatal,” the doctor added.
 Author Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay recalled, “My mother forced me to drink chirata-soaked water for deworming. I remember having basak leaves — another bitter item that can make you cry — during the cold and cough season. Kulekhara is another thing that I had.”
 
 
 Perhaps because of the medicinal value, or otherwise, bitter food has its own popularity in Indian gastronomy. According to the Indologist and author, Nrisingha Prasad Bhaduri, bitter food has largely been a Bangal thing, that is, the culinary tradition of  . And he attributes it to the availability of ingredients.
 I am a Bangal and I grew up eating teto. I am under the impression that traditionally, teto is more of a Bangal culinary mandate than the Ghoti or the West Bengal people and I’ll tell you why. Apart from Dhaka, historically, Bangladesh has been a village-dominated economy. People there used to own land and ate what they 
 produced. For shopping they had to go to the nearby haat (market) but only to buy the delicacies like sweetmeats and all. Meanwhile, they used to grow a variety of spinaches and other veggies. Bitter gourd has been one of the popular home-produced vegetables there. Neem trees are found in every other corner of the neighbourhood. This is the reason why the culture of eating bitter was so common. I have eaten at least six varieties of shukto and each is very different from the other,” Bhaduri said.
 Shukto, though a bitter item, is not really bitter in its common use. Food columnist   Malakar said, “A good   is one whose shukto is not bitter. That is the reason many use shiuli leaves with bitter gourd to prepare shukto.”
 On the other hand, the rainfall in the Rarh region of Bengal that includes Bankura, Birbhum, Nadiya and other districts is less and that affects the produce. “The amount of bitter gourd that is produced in these areas is way less than that in east  . When I first came to Kolkata in ’50s, I was surprised to see people eating roti, that too, in dinner. But in Bangladesh, we used to have bitter in our dinner with rice regularly,” Bhaduri said.
 
 
 “Bangal matrei teto khaye,” said Shirshendu Mukhopadhyay, who is known for visiting local bajar frequently. “I buy all sorts of teto, including neem pata, uchhe and all regularly from Jodhpur Park bajar. I was told bitter items help us fight against pox. This is the time we gorge on teto,” he added.
 However, according to many, bitter is definitely not just a Bangal thing. Director-singer-songwriter Anindya Chattopadhyay said, “I come from a very traditional Uttor Kolkata ghoti bari and there were numerous restrictions regarding food in our kitchen. For example, chicken was a strict no-no in our family. Similarly, bitter gourd was a must on our regular menu. But my mother used to add a little bit of sugar in neem begun. My maternal uncle’s house is in Sonarpur and we grew up under a strict regimen of my mama. Under his command, there were two mandatory juices that I had to gulp — khejurer rosh and kalmegh. And that’s not all, once I had jaundice and I was forced to swallow chiratar juice and that was an ordeal. Ever since, neem-begun became a regular in my life. See, not many people like bitter taste. But I developed the taste over a period of time. I don’t like karola, I like uchhe. If you start your meal with teto, the following items taste better.”
 
 
 Not only Bengal, bitter has its own acceptance in rest of the country too. Karele ki sabzi and pickle are extremely popular in Bihar, UP, Punjab and other areas. “I have seen people from   gorging of karela ki sabzi. They just love it,” said Shirshendu. Amitava too agreed. “I remember a picnic with a family from Bihar. While we packed our boxes with variety of veggies and meat, the Bihari family opened lunch boxes full of karele ki sabzi. It was delicious. Evidently, it was one of their finest delicacies,” the columnist said. While Bengalis enjoy bitter food at the beginning of the meal and with rice, in these areas people lap up bitter food as their main course and that too with roti. “Some rich families in UP make karela with meat stuffing. In Bangladesh, some boatmen put dry fish as stuffing in karela. In south India, I have seen people frying bitter ingredients. Bitter food has its own presence in all over the country,” Amitava added.
 An acquired taste
 Despite its health benefits and popularity among Bengalis, bitter remains an acquired taste. Apart from bitter choco-
 late, black coffee, bitter beer, Angostura bitters (a botanically infused alcoholic mixture that is touted to be more bitter than chirata), there’s not much demand for bitter food globally.
 “Bitter food is for home. It is definitely not wanted in luxury hotels. It is good for health but not many people care about health when they visit a posh five-star restaurant. However, since we customise our menu for guests, we also get a 
 few orders for karela or neem preparation. To make it less bitter, we soak karela in salt water before cooking. We throw the neem leaves in hot oil, which evaporates the moisture of the leaves,” said Clement D’Cruz, executive chef, Hyatt Regency.
 
 
 
 Summer is upon us and going by our granny’s suggestion, this is the time when you need to eat bitter food the most to keep your gut healthy. But bitter food needn’t be all that bitter, says chef Joymalya Banerjee. We chose three bitter food dishes from his recipe book for our readers:
  
  
 
 
 Sauté fenugreek leaves, potato, aubergine and bacon together till tender. Mash it up roughly and make nice little patties. Shallow fry them. Serve with crispy karela fry and julienne apple and pears salad. 
 
  
 
 
 Who says shukto has to be vegetarian? Use bekti to give it a nice twist. Add a bit of radhuni powder to bitter gourd slices and hinche (helengcha) leaves, shallow fry them and keep aside. Fry diced veggies in that oil. Add a bit of ginger juice and sauté. Add salt, sugar and water and bring it to a boil. Add fish to the boiling curry and let it simmer. When the 
 veggies are tender, add milk. Cook for a while and your maachher shukto is ready!
  
  
 
 
 Whip egg yolks and sugar till it is creamy. Add hot milk and cook it on a double boiler. Cool it and add gelatin. Now, whip egg white till peaks are formed. Add whipped cream and add it to the mixture. Fold it well. Now add a little bit of thinly sliced neem leaves. Set it for two hours and your fusion souffle is ready.
 
