NEW DELHI: In one of the biggest hauls of   in the city, the Special Cell of Delhi Police apprehended two drug traffickers with 540 kg of the narcotic, cleverly hidden in specially designed cavities between the driver’s cabin and the container of the trucks they were driving. Police said the marijuana was sourced from areas under Naxal control in Jharkhand and Odisha and were meant to be bartered for liquor in Delhi.

 The container trucks driven by Mantu Singh, 37, and Akbar Khan, 32, were intercepted on Mathura Road on Thursday. Pramod Khushwaha, DCP (Special Cell), said that after the trucks were flagged down, the drivers readily opened the containers doors, claiming they were parcel vehicles. However, they faltered when the cops asked the duo why they had travelled all the way from Odisha to Delhi in empty vehicles.
 
 “After a thorough search, the trucks were detected to have cavities that held several parcels of marijuana. They could be accessed through a trap door behind the driver’s cabin,” disclosed Khushwaha. A dozen packed plastic bags and 116 smaller, loose packets tied with chocolate-colour tape were recovered from the trucks. Each of the 12 bags held 12 smaller packets, for a total of 144. There were, thus, 260 packets overall all. Each contained cannabis-like leaf with seeds and cumulatively weighed 540.8 kg.
 
 The trucks were found to be fitted with GPS devices, possibly for the handlers to keep track. Khan admitted to the cops that he was in this illegal business for a long time and had transported more than 30 quintals of the drug in his truck in the past 12 years. This time he and his fellow driver had got the cannabis from one Dada near Brahmpura in Odisha for delivery to some handlers in Delhi. In exchange for the narcotic, they took back illicit liquor to remote areas in Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha.
 
 Each truck driver would be paid Rs 20,000 for transporting a consignment. Another 10-wheeled truck similarly fitted with a secret cavity was recovered from Nuh in Haryana after Mantu Singh’s disclosures. Police said the men owned three trucks that operated from Bahadurgarh. The cops are trying to track down the receivers in Delhi.
 
 The cannabis was processed in the dense forests of Naxal-hit districts on the borders of Jharkhand and Odisha. Police suspect that a part of the proceeds was used to fund the terror activities of the Maoist groups.
 
 
