On a day visit to Mumbai, six-time   award nominee, daughter of the late   legend  ,   talks to us on a variety of subjects like how her music brings her back to her roots, how   can penetrate the young generation, and most importantly, her views on how sexual abuse needs to be eradicated. Read on...

 
 I think when you come from a place of individuality and integrity, it just connects. It’s about knowing and being comfortable with the fact that the sitar is from India and it connects me to this country. At the same time, my music transcends borders, which you see in my personality as well.
 
 
 I grew up listening to trance and electronic as well, so it’s fine (laughs!). I think mostly, people are smarter than we give them credit for. It’s possible for people to listen to multiple genres of music. I grew up doing the normal young things and still learnt how to play the sitar. There are schools and families who take effort to ensure classical music is passed on to the younger generation. That’s enough, and I think the tradition will continue on the basis of how beautiful Indian classical music is.
 
 
 There are very few forms of music that cater to the lowest common denominator, or are popular to the extent that everyone will like them. So in that sense, yes, classical music is niche. But what I always say is that music can be listened to and appreciated on different levels. One can listen to something like Indian classical music with zero understanding and appreciate it on one level. By doing that, it is less intimidating. And obviously, if you like it and have enough curiosity around it, then you would want to learn it. Then there are 100 other levels in which you can enjoy it and the world opens up to you a lot more. That’s true of western classical music, like jazz as well. The more you understand, the more layers you appreciate, but you don’t have to know those layers to appreciate the music.
 
 
 Yes, of course! That’s how I ended up learning it. There was definitely an expectation, but I was never forced to do it. I totally had the choice, but I was also aware that there was a vested interest in my learning to play the sitar.
 
 
 At the moment, my kids are so young that I don’t have any vested interest in passing on my craft to them. It’s more about bringing them up in an environment of art, creativity and passion. I try to help them tap into their passion, which will ultimately make them happy.
 
 
 To make a subtle differentiation, our focus should be on how to eradicate sexual violence, not on how to protect ourselves from sexual violence. It should not be happening! Rather than teaching women how to not get raped, we should teach men not to rape. Obviously, our priority is to always keep our children and families safe. Education, culture, mindset, a lot of factors like these are responsible for sexual violence, and that’s where the focus should be. It is 
 disturbing to hear stories of sexual abuse that are happening around us and it affects me deeply. This was the feeling that led me to speak about it in the first place. I wish the conversations amongst decision makers of the country were more about how to change mindsets, culture and perception, rather than only focus on laws. It’s also about prevention and not just punishment. It’s more important to talk about how to eradicate sexual violence.
 
 
 People in the entertainment business have a voice and if we are able to use that voice to help make a change, then we should do it. We have an opportunity which some of the other people don’t necessarily have. So, when we start speaking, other people subconsciously begin to feel that they also have an opportunity to speak. In that sense, we have a responsibility. 
 
 
 Like anything else, I am dealing with it one day at a time and finding my way around it. The focus as a parent, regardless of whether you are a couple or a single parent is to raise your children well and keep them as happy as possible.
 
  
  
 
 
