NEW DELHI: To ensure planned aesthetic development of city’s public space, the ministry of housing and urban affairs has asked the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) to finalise guidelines for public   by the end of March.

 The arts body organised its first roundtable on the draft Guidelines for Public Art in the capital on Monday. DUAC members said there is a need to have a master plan for public artwork, so that it enhances the aesthetic of public areas.
 
 Union minister of housing and urban affairs Hardeep Puri said: “Public space is seen as an opportunity to display creative artwork. Not only does it beautify the cityscape, it also captures its soul.”
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Though the Unified Building Byelaws 2016, approved by DUAC, has made public artwork mandatory in new constructions, there is no policy for it yet. “We need to identify locations, make a comprehensive art master plan and provide for guidelines for sanctioning artwork and its maintenance,” said PSN Rao, chairman of DUAC.
 
 Puri said that previous guidelines provided opportunities for public art, but those were not implemented properly. “There was an opportunity to integrate public artwork with development projects, especially when all round construction and developmental activities, like the Commonwealth Games, were taking place in the city. Unfortunately, it was not utilised properly and we hardly see any notable work of public art in Delhi,” he added.
 
 Various stakeholders, including artists, government agencies, urban designers, etc, listed their concerns and suggested measures that should be included in the guidelines. The issues ranged from maintenance and protection of artwork, to appointment of advisors for selection of the artwork.
 
 A major concern for most artists was the protection of their work from vandalism. Several artists said that the guidelines should provide for proper maintenance of artwork. Another major issue raised during the meeting was how the artwork was to be selected and for how long would it be put on display at a specific location.
 
 Arunava Dasgupta, head of urban design at School of Planning and Architecture, suggested that public art should not just be done for aesthetic purpose, but should also focus on social messaging. 
 
 “We will incorporate these ideas in the guidelines. Maintenance of public art, their selection process, the duration for which it should be on display, etc, are some of the key concerns that we will try to address in the guidelines,” concluded Dr Rao.
 
 
