COIMBATORE:  ,  , not only shares his first name with  , but also bears a striking resemblance to the matinee idol. The 42-year-old man and many others like him are getting ready to capitalise the God-given trait, now that the actor has announced his political entry.

 Guna and a couple of other Rajini lookalikes were roped in to perform at a membership drive and an unofficial Rajini Makkal Mandram meet in the city on Sunday. Several outfits supporting Rajinikanth have been seeking out performers like them.
 
 He used to get around five to 10 programmes a month, Guna told TOI. “Now after thalaivar (Rajini) announced his political entry, the opportunities have almost tripled,” said Guna, who has been performing as a Rajini lookalike for the last 22 years.
 
 Rajini Mani, 45, said after December 31, when Rajinikanth announced his political entry, he got calls to perform not only in the city, but also in Chennai. “Since the New Year, I have performed in Chennai three times,” said Mani, who has been performing for 25 years. He runs a mobile catering business when he doesn’t perform.
 
 These performers mainly dance to intro songs from Rajinikanth films. Earlier, such events were held in temple festivals and political campaigns. Performance for songs from blockbuster   are the most sought-after.
 
 Guna said even before Rajinikanth announced his political entry, lookalike artistes like him had got a cue. “Several lookalike performers, who had abandoned the field, came back and started performing even before thalaivar announced his entry,” he said and added that currently, there are around 15 Rajinikanth lookalike performers in the city.
 
 After their performance on Sunday, a volunteer of a Rajinikanth outfit from the city was seen advising Mani and Guna to be ready for more performances in the coming weeks. He was also telling them which Rajini characters would suit them. “You would suit well for the Kabali character. Don’t try anything else,” the volunteer told Mani.
 
 
