VIJAYAWADA: Keeping up the suspense on whether TDP will part ways with BJP, its president and   chief minister   asked why the NDA government was not willing to allot funds for his state when it could spend lakhs of crores of rupees on a bullet train. The CM was referring to the proposed bullet train project between Mumbai and Ahmedabad. Naidu, who returned from Dubai on Friday morning, made this remark while conducting another teleconference with MPs.

 
 When Chittoor MP Shiva Prasad said TDP members will continue to protest in both houses of Parliament over meagre allocation for AP in the Union budget, Naidu asked them to be cautious. “The CM told us to continue with protests in Parliament and a future course of action will be decided in next few days,” MP Thota Narasimham told TOI.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, finance minister   reiterated again in Rajya Sabha that he has asked concerned departments to work on a new railway zone with Visakhapatnam as headquarters, Dugarajapatnam airport and the Vizag Chennai industrial Corridor. “Many central institutes were promised to AP. Some of them were inaugurated and some of them are at different levels of progress,” he said and agreed with protesting TDP MPs that the state was financially at a loss because of bifurcation. An alternate formula to the special package will be announced soon, he said.
 
 Jaitley’s assurances though received cold reception from TDP. “The Centre has been saying it will give more funds. But we will not be satisfied until it actually happens,” TDP MP CM Ramesh told TOI.
 
 Aiming to queer the pitch for the shaky TDP-BJP alliance,   on Friday rose to the defence of Andhra Pradesh with Rahul Gandhi tweeting that his party supports the people of AP for special category status and speedy completion of the Polavaram project. “Congress supports just demands of people of Andhra Pradesh for special category status and speedy completion of the Polavaram project. It’s time for all parties to unite on this issue and support this call for justice,” tweeted Rahul. In the Rajya Sabha, Congress member Renuka Chowdary demanded special category status for the residuary state.
 
 
