Ever since   began in India almost a decade ago, every year, there is one pop culture character that becomes a favourite among cosplayers. In the initial years, it was either   or Joker. With the   Cinematic Universe gaining popularity in the last few years, Iron Man and   became fan favourites, and Suicide Squad made sure that many girls dressed up as  . However, over the last two years, if there is one character that has managed to hold its popularity despite other characters coming to the fore, it is Deadpool. The ‘Merc with a Mouth’ became a popular choice for cosplayers in 2016 after his eponymous movie made the character a cult figure. But since then, even as a number of popular superhero characters have come and gone ( , Spiderman, Jared Leto’s Joker, to name a few),   manages to stay a fan- favourite.

  
  
 
 As 'Deadpool 2' gets ready to hit the screens, we try to find the secret to his fame in the cosplay universe, and cosplayers tell us that Deadpool is a superhero that most nerds can actually relate to – something that doesn’t hold true for ‘more intense’ superheroes like Captain America or Batman. American cosplayer and sketch artist P-Diddy has been cosplaying Deadpool at conventions for almost ten years now. Back when he started, not many even knew the character. “People mistook me for Spiderman,” he said in an interview in 2016. 
 
  
  Gaurav Thakur, a Delhi- based cosplayer
 
 Probably the world’s first Deadpool cosplayer, P-Diddy shared why he chose that character, “I can’t say I act like him, but I do like a lot of the things he talks about. I’m online a lot; I play games; I’m into things in pop culture like anime. The little hints he throws in from pop culture and that kind of thing resonates with me.”
 And this quality of Deadpool – the fourth-wall breaking pop-culture awareness – is something that cosplayers love, even back home in India. Deadpool’s nature and persona, chiefly his sense of humour and propensity to talk to fans, lend him very naturally to cosplay. Rakshit, who has cosplayed Deadpool at two Comic Cons in Delhi, says, “He is a character who is unpredictable. Even in the comics and films, he knows he is performing. He will talk to fans. He is perfect for cosplay, because as cosplayers, that is what we do. We are performers without the fourth wall, right in the middle of the fans. Everything Deadpool does in the film or comics is actually typical cosplayer behaviour – in that he entertains fans, quips one-liners, and just has fun.”
 
  
  JUST CHILLIN’: Gaurav Thakur, a Delhi-based cosplayer 
 
 Globally, cosplayers have experimented with Deadpool cosplay, often merging him with other characters to create composite cosplay. Deadpool is a nerd himself, say cosplayers, which is why you can have fun with his costumes. After all, Deadpool as a   villain might (an actual costume at a 2017 Comic Con in the US) make more sense than Batman as a Disney villain. The raw, quirky sense of humour Deadpool brings with himself is another reason for his popularity among cosplayers. Delhi-based cosplayer Gaurav Thakur, who has won several competitions with his Deadpool cosplays, says, “With other superheroes, you need a physique and certain body-type to be considered authentic, but not with Deadpool. He is so fun that you could be any body type and you would still be a genuine Deadpool cosplayer. When he does not take himself seriously, why should others? Batman is brooding and serious. If you cosplay him, you have to act all serious too. But with Deadpool, you can be as fun as you want to be and even the fans love that. They also want cosplayers to be friendlier and Deadpool allows us to do that.”
 
  
  Gaurav Thakur gets request from Deadpool fans for pictures and selfies
 
 Neelansh, a Ghaziabad-based college student, says, “I cosplayed Deadpool once and it was my first time ever. The fun part about this character is that even if you don’t go all out with all the accessories and proper costume, you can still pull it off as it is a more light-hearted character who doesn’t take anything seriously. It’s a good character for beginners that way. It doesn’t pressurise you to work for months so that you can compete with professionals.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 
