PATNA: With the mercury rocketing, doctors have advised people to drink a lot of water and avoid eating stale food.

 According to AIIMS-Patna’s general physician Dr Ravi Kirti, exposure to extreme heat conditions makes one prone to a number of diseases. “For, your energy drain off in  , thereby making you vulnerable to infections, nausea and low blood pressure,” he said and added cases of seasonal ailments had gone up since the onset of summer.
 
 Children and even adults, medical experts said, may also get nosebleeds in this season. Heart patients and the elderly should protect themselves from direct sun exposure.
 
 Dr Kirti said extreme summer conditions might lead to severe renal failure even in healthy individuals. It may also cause potentially fatal conditions like rhabdomyolysis, which results in breakdown of muscles. “Hydration is, therefore, a must. Drink plenty of fluids to keep yourself hydrated and avoid stale food,” he said and added dizziness, blackouts, confusion were the red flags one should watch out for in this season as any of these might require medical attention.
 
 Medical experts prescribed lemon juice and fruits like watermelon and pomegranates to everyone in summer. Soda, tea and coffee may increase diuresis (urine formation) and, therefore, should be avoided. Spicy food and high-protein diet like red meat should be an absolute no-no in this season.
 
 AIIMS-Patna’s dermatologist Dr Rajesh Sinha cautioned against fungal infections, which are caused by excessive perspiration. Cases of acne, rashes, sunburns, photosensitivity, itchy-prickly skin and uneven skin tone also increase in summer.
 
 “As a result of excessive heat, overworked sweat glands get blocked due to which sweat is not released. It instead builds up under your skin. That’s the reason for rashes, bumps and itching,” the skin specialist said.
 
 Dr Sinha said one should apply sunscreen before moving out in the sun or cover the exposed body parts with a cloth to avoid direct contact with the sun. “One should keep the skin dry. The sweat should be removed gently and not wiped off forcefully,” he said and also advised to wear light-weight, loose-fitting clothes of cotton and avoid using harsh soaps and heavy creams on face.
 
 
