In the age of smartphones and Instagram, selfies are now an intrinsic part of a student’s life. So, whether they’re posing for stulfies (study selfies), a farewell picture or just a regular selfie, there is a spot in every college, no matter how small the campus is. Even if they’re busy with their exams, they like to throng the spot to capture a moment. From graffiti walls to Goth architecture, we shortlisted a few hot spots in Mumbai colleges that attract click-happy teenagers and 20-somethings in droves…

 
 
 
 The college got a burst of zing, energy and beauty when the walls in its premises were painted by students three years back. It’s now a haven for pictures, the most popular zone being ‘Causeway’, which endorses the college fest, Entourage, and has Mumbai landmarks drawn on the wall.
 
 
 
  
  
 A picturesque premise, the institute’s large, sprawling campus has a quiet corner, which provides a lakeside view of  . It’s hugely popular among students as it’s a great spot for sunrise, sunset, an evening stroll and even, during the rains. Study breaks in the form of lakeside selfies sounds great, no?
 
 
 
  
  The steps right outside the college’s foyer is not just another staircase. It’s frequented by students throughout the day. They have to constantly ‘make space’ for passers-by, but that does not put them off their favourite selfie. Besides great lighting, it’s also a great spot to “make memories”, say the students.
 
 
  
  
 An important landmark of the campus, this 100-odd year-old massive banyan tree is a place to literally ‘chill’ during summers. Two years back, the spot was converted into a sit-down for students to meet, study or simply chit-chat. The lake, located in the centre of the campus, is also another favourite among students.
 
 
  
  
 The institute, spread over 65-acres, is bursting with selfie spots — right from the life-size chess board to a watermelon seat. There is a new katta (college slang for hangout) at the pavilion, which is lush with greenery. Inspired by the heritage haveli in Kutch, it is perfect for those who want a vintage backdrop for their selfies.
 
 
  
  
 The oldest law college in Asia, the institute also boasts of having had the Father of the Indian Constitution, Dr BR Ambedkar as one of its principals. Considering he drafted The Constitution of India, students take immense pride in flaunting the preamble etched on this marble ledge. For first year students, posing for a selfie at this spot marks their entry to this institute with historical significance.
 
 
 
  
  
 The campus is known for its basketball cum volleyball court and mini amphitheatre, where students choose to read, listen to music and laze around. Another striking feature of this area is its Warli art done by students in 2004, which gives a folk art feel to the campus.
 
 
