NEW DELHI: “Till when will we have to rely on others to live?” asked  , the anguished mother of Ankit, who was hacked to death by the family of the girl he was in a relationship with on February 1. “Ankit had taken a loan, and the finance company is now pressuring us on the repayment. We are having a harrowing time.”

 The small income that her husband, Yashpal Saxena, earned operating a one-room alarm bell manufacturing unit above their Raghubeer Nagar house has vanished after he ceased work from that fateful day. “Everyone is motivated to do something to improve life for the coming generation, but I lost my only son, so where’s the motivation?” said Yashpal, his eyes fixed on the photograph of his 22-year-old son hanging on the wall.
 
 Showing a pile of visiting cards, among them of politicians and society stalwarts, who had promised him succour, he said, “We helped the government avoid a bigger problem of communal disturbance, but we have been left to fend for ourselves.” In the aftermath of the young man’s killing, some people had apparently tried to provoke communal tension in the area, but the family was firm that religion had nothing to do with their son’s death. 
 
 Now, with no source of income, Yashpal and Kamlesh, both heart patients, are dependent on their neighbours and relatives. While the neighbours ensure food for them, relatives assist the couple in paying domestic bills. “Ankit was the bread winner of the family and I saw him dying in front of me,” the ageing man continued. “There was some time between his throat being slit and he losing consciousness. My heart quails to think of what must have gone on in his mind in those last moments.”
 
 As for the other family, neighbours said that just over a month ago, the girl’s mother came with cops to retrieve household items from the flat they had been forced to vacate after the killing. Suraj Kumar, who owns a shop adjacent to the flat, shared that after being evicted from the room where the family ran a beauty parlour, the family of the accused was also asked to leave the area for its own safety. The girl and her aunt subsequently left for their village in UP. Her parents and uncle are lodged in Tihar Jail, and her minor brother is in the custody of the juvenile justice board.
 
