It’s not often that you get to see graffiti of BR Ambedkar and his message ‘Educate, Agitate, Organise’ scream from the stage backdrop of a university cultural fest. Or for that matter, find rock bands headbanging on a stage where Lenin’s famous words, ‘Peace, Land and bread’ are hard to miss. But that’s precisely how the mood is set each year at the  , as the politically charged varsity preps for its annual fest ‘Sukoon’.
In its 14th edition this year, the three-day fest, which kick-starts today, aims at spreading some much needed ‘sukoon’ (peace) on campus. And there’s strictly no politics, say organisers. “It is a fest organised by the students’ union for fellow students. The soul of   is peace. There is no other theme and strictly no politics,” says Abhishek G, cultural secretary,   Students’ Union 2018. 
 reality however, is far from it, allege students, who like to harp on one point — ‘Sukoon is just not the same anymore’. The fest today, is a far cry from the days when it was about pure, unbridled freedom and fun, they claim. “Sukoon started around 2003 because by then, all major universities in the country had their own college fests and we, (then  ) wanted our own fest as well. over the years though, the fest has taken an ideological stand. It began displaying an identity, an opinion,” says Sharath K Chandra, from Department of Bio Informatics, who has been in the campus for over 15 years. those who have been attending the annual fest since its inception agree that there has been a steady upsurge in ideological references to figures such as Ambedkar, Karl Marx and Lenin over the years. In fact, right from 2013, student unions through the years have given Ambedkar and his ideology prominence and space in the hitherto apolitical cultural fest. But what caused this 
 paradigm shift? “it’s just a reflection of the mood on campus, which in turn is a reflection of the larger mood in society...” says Sharath.
 
 Tracing the rise of Ambedkar symbolism in sukoon
 The last time Sukoon was “relatively neutral” in theme and idea was way back in 2012, recount students. That year, the open dais had a backdrop featuring a silhouette of revellers celebrating with their arms up in the air. With pink as the base colour, the design was devoid of any political identity, angst or cause. 
 But 2013 saw the mood of Sukoon take a sharp ideological turn. graffitis showing Karl Marx chanting 
 ‘Workers of the World Unite’; Mao saying, ‘ Let a hundred flowers bloom’, Periyar proclaiming, ‘He who created God is a fool’, along with Buddha, Ambedkar and Bhagat Singh reflected the ‘communist ideology’ of the then union. The politically charged mood of the campus was reflected on the backdrop of the stage, the banners, placards et al.
 Again in 2015, the year when Ambedkar Students Association (ASA) came to power, Ambedkar symbolism took a centre stage. A life-size portrait of Babasaheb holding a pen raised in the air and his powerful words, ‘Educate, Agitate, Organise’ flashed boldly across the dais, reiterating the Ambedkarite ideology on campus. 
 “Artistically, it was not the best design. but it served the ideological purpose as it had Ambedkar, Savitri and Jyotirao Phule painted with a strong message,” says Vijay Kumar, a student of Fine Arts.
 After that, the use of Ambedkar symbolism became integral to the campus and the fest, and successive unions chose to place him prominently in the artworks, often above their own ideologies. 
 “As artists, we try our best to keep away from obvious political messages in our art. Our attempt is to represent the mood on the campus. When Rohith Vemula passed away and students were arrested subsequently, the situation on campus deteriorated. So, in 2017, we consciously used art to liven the atmosphere,” adds Vijay, who conceived the idea for the artwork with bright neon colours splashed across the walls in 2017. There was a tribal man blowing the bugle on the left, flanked by a jazz musician on the right. Ambedkar, however, continued to be on the canvas in 2017. Though smaller that his previous avatar, he stood in the centre of the stage despite the union being led by the Left and aligned parties. But as Vijay points out, Ambedkar’s graffiti was painted in white to signify peace, and not blue as popularly represented by the ASA. The walls also had a small red star on top, symbolising SFI.
 
 ‘Sukoon is not the same anymore’
 Though the itinerary of the three-day event has remained largely the same over the years, the politicking has marred its spirit to a large extent, rue disenchanted students. “The fest was meant to be a time for students to get together keeping aside their political differences. But the increasing number of organisations and the polarisation among the students have contributed to the dull response towards the fest,” says Mahesh Gokara, a post-doctoral fellow, from department of biochemistry. 
 The rival political parties also blame the indifferent attitude of the university’s administration for the diminishing appeal of the fest. “In the beginning of the academic year, a sum of Rs 400 is collected from each student for Sukoon, and that amounts to Rs 13-14 lakh. But political parties are now making coalitions to organise Sukoon and making money out of the funds. The performers and DJs invited to the fest too are below par,” alleges a member of ABVP, on condition of anonymity. The minor glitches notwithstanding, the tradition of Sukoon will continue, say the students. “Sukoon is organic in nature, unlike the fests in engineering colleges. We must retain the fest’s flavour,” adds Mahesh.
 
