Mumbai's airport now camps with those of cities like Varanasi, Vadodara, Aurangabad, Gaya, Allahabad and Tezpur, making it one of 19 airports in India where passenger traffic registered single-digit growth or no growth in the last financial year. Mumbai is the only major airport on this national list, with 2017-18 as the second consecutive year when it was grouped with airports with poor growth. 

 
 
  
 
 In contrast, over 70% of the country's airports have shown double-digit growth in passenger traffic, which is not surprising given that India currently has the fastest growing domestic passenger traffic in the world. Mumbai's situation is thus ironical, given that the city is the country's financial heart. The city airport's fall is spectacular as till 2012 it was the country's busiest.
 
 In India's 67 other functional airports (besides the group of 19), passenger traffic saw double or triple digit growth in 2017-18. These include airports in metros and non-metros: no only Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Hyderabad, and Kolkata, but also Kochi, Ahmedabad, Goa, Mangalore, Hubli, Agatti, and Gorakhpur.
 
 Mumbai registered a passenger traffic growth of 7.5 % in 2017-18, down from 8.5% in 2016-17. In contrast, the average passenger traffic growth in Indian airports in 2017-2018 from the year before was 16.5%, according to the Airports Authority of India. Data from the   (IATA) shows India registering double-digit growth in passenger traffic for 43 consecutive months. Mumbai airport missed out on this because of infrastructure constraints, slum encroachment-led land crunch and delay in the construction of a second airport.
 
 "A decade ago, it was evident that Mumbai airport will run out of capacity within a few years and the city will need a second airport," said a senior air traffic controller. "If (successive chief ministers) had foresight or realized how badly Mumbai was losing out because of poor airport infrastructure, the Navi Mumbai airport would have been operational by now."
 
 
