GUWAHATI: Increasing levels of   have been ringing alarm bells for long and now the city civic body is poised to prepare a draft action plan to bring it under control with the help of an international organisation. 

  (GMC)-in partnership with   (CAA)-that aims to reduce air pollution across more than a thousand cities in Asia, will be initiating an effective air action plan to reduce pollution for a cleaner and healthier city. On Wednesday, pollution experts and civic officials had their first meeting on a blueprint. 
 
 "We discussed the draft at the meeting today. It should be ready shortly," said Debojit Baruah, GMC secretary.
 
 Experts zeroed in on some of the sources of pollution that were affecting the quality of city air. JS Kamyorta, former member secretary of the   ( ), pointed out that brick kilns in and around the city were major culprits in polluting the air and that they should be modernised to reduce pollution.
 
 "We need to work with the kiln owners in convincing them to modernize them. Even the garbage disposal system has to be scientifically designed. Black carbon emission has doubled and so has bio-mass emission. These are challenges that need to be addressed. The action plan should offer solutions to all this," said Kamyorta.
 
 Experts said all pollution-control plans for Guwahati should be based on what suits the city. The stress should be on cost effective strategies aimed at reduction of emission from pollutants like PM 10 and PM 2.5.
 
 "An air action plan needs to be compiled and aimed at protection of health and environment. Development need not be at the expense of air quality being compromised with. For Guwahati, we need a clean air action plan that will identify the concerns," said Vasundhara Bhojviad, air quality researcher, CAA.
 
 A memorandum of understanding (MoU) is likely to be signed between GMC and CAA for the task ahead. "The draft is almost ready but we need to fine-tune it. The MoU will specify what kind of an action plan we will have-mid, short or long term," said Prarthana Borah, India director, CAA. 
 
 
