JAIPUR: Four more middle-men were quizzed by the Jodhpur unit of   (ACB) on Saturday for extorting bribes from Pakistani immigrants for extending visas, indicating that a larger nexus was at work to exploit desperate immigrants for money. 

 The interrogations began after the ACB had on Friday arrested senior secretariat assistant (SSA) P K Mishra (50), who was posted with the ministry of home affairs (MHA), for demanding bribes from Pakistani migrants. Three middle-men were also arrested from the same hotel during a raid. 
 
 "On Saturday we quizzed four other agents too, they were in contact with Mishra. A detailed interrogation is being conducted," said DIG (ACB Jodhpur) Ajay Pal Lamba, adding that the ACB had taken cognizance of the matter and arrested four accused under Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 The three middlemen arrested on Friday were - Ashok, Bhagwana Ram and Govind. All three are Pakistani immigrants who settled in Jodhpur several years ago. The ACB sleuths said that one Kundan Lal, who worked at a secretariat in Jaipur, was also part of the nexus, he however, he is currently off the hook.
 
 The sources said that it was Mishra, who had been representing the central government at several hearings before the high court in Jodhpur since August last year when the court took suo moto cognizance of the long-term visa (LTV) issue of these immigrants. Even on Thursday, he had come to Jodhpur on the official tour and stayed with CID officials for some time, however, later in the evening he checked into a hotel to take the   from agents.
 
 "While he was at the CID office, Mishra sent a text message to one of the agents to wait for him in a hotel to share the bribe money. He was afraid that CID officials may land him in trouble," an official said. "They charged from Rs 2,000 to Rs 3,000 for different services including transfer and extension. Many of their victims were desperate migrants who could not afford to go back to Pakistan and therefore arranged the bribe amount," the official said.
 
 The four followed the modus operandi of delaying long-term visa (LTV) proposals of immigrants to demand money. Unless these three agents confirmed that they had received money, Mishra would refuse to clear the files. "He would come to Rajasthan from Delhi and collect money during his official trips," said DIG (ACB, Jodhpur) Ajay Pal Lamba.
 
 The ACB has not ruled out the involvement of other officials in the bribery racket. "We are quizzing Mishra to find out if he had other accomplices too," the official said.
 
 Hindu Singh Sodha, president,  , an organization fighting for the rights of migrants, said that for past several years, many of the immigrants have been paying bribes for extension of their LTVs. "A streamlined mechanism should have been set up by now to ensure that nobody has to pay bribe," he said, adding that many LTVs are still pending.
 
 
