COOCH BEHAR: As many as 20 people were injured in fresh clashes which broke out between two groups here in Cooch Behar on Monday morning, amid the ongoing panchayat polls in West Bengal.

 Over 11 per cent polling was recorded till 9 am in the West Bengal panchayat polls, an official said.
 
 As per a local, a number of individuals had gone to cast their vote at a polling station here, when they were attacked with sticks by a group of All India Trinamool Congress ( ) workers. Subsequently, the injured were admitted to MJN Hospital for treatment.
  
  
 "A group of us had gone to cast our vote at a polling booth. We were attacked by a group of TMC workers with lathis (sticks)," an injured local told ANI.
 
 Read also: 
  
 
 Meanwhile,   ( ) supporter Sujit Kumar Das was slapped by West Bengal Minister Rabindra Nath Ghosh at Cooch Behar's booth no. 8/12 in the presence of police. However, Ghosh claimed he did not do it.
 
 As panchayat polls get underway, many incidents of violence have been reported from different pockets of the state.
 
 In North 24 Parganas, a Communist Party of India (Marxist) or CPM worker and his wife, who were charred to death after their house was torched last night, alleged that TMC workers were behind the attack.
  
  
 Incidents of violence were also reported from Bhangar, where a media vehicle was torched and a camera broken, after which media was prohibited from entering the area.
 
 Furthermore, Bhangar locals blocked the roads, alleging that TMC workers were capturing the polling booth.
 
 On the other hand, a TMC worker, Anarul Mita, suffered bullet injuries in an attack in Cooch Behar's Dinhata on late Sunday night, after which he was admitted to the hospital in a critical condition.
 
 The victim has alleged that Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers are behind the attack.
 
 In Burdwan district, opposition CPI(M) and BJP accused the TMC of terrorising voters and hurling bombs outside polling stations. The TMC termed the allegations as baseless.
 
 In Birbhum, masked men carrying weapons and sticks were seen intimidating voters outside some of the booths.
 
 Television footage from Basanti block of South 24 Parganas district showed masked gunmen roaming outside polling stations.
  
  
 Reportedly, one person was killed and three others were injured in South Dinajpur district's Tapan area after a bomb was hurled outside a polling station. The police are yet to confirm the death.
 
 "We have received a report that four persons were injured. Out of them, one has died. The district police superintendent is yet to confirm the death," an SEC official said.
  
  
 The voting, which began at 7 a.m. on Monday morning, will continue till 5 p.m. in 621 zilla parishads, 6157 panchayat samitis, and 31,827 gram panchayats.
 
 The counting will take place on May 17. 
 
 After a protracted legal battle in the Kolkata High Court and the Supreme Court involving the SEC, the TMC and the opposition parties, the three-tier panchayat polls is being held in the state. 
 
 
