BENGALURU: The cost of constructing a road in Bengaluru is set to touch a new high: Rs 43 crore a km.

 The 10.7km major arterial road (MAR), proposed to connect Magadi Road and Mysuru Road, will see this massive spending. On January 2, the Karnataka cabinet gave its green signal to the Rs 466-crore MAR project which will pass through   Layout. The project was earlier called the Peripheral Ring Road–II (PRR-II).
 
 
  
  
 
 In fact, PRR-I — supposed to connect   with Hosur Road via Ballari Road, Old Madras Road and Sarjapur Road — hasn’t even taken off.
 
 The current construction cost of an NHAI road is around Rs 15 crore a km. Sources in the urban development department attributed the project cost to delay in its commencement and increase in input costs, apart from Goods and  .
 
 “Land acquisition for the project should have been completed in 2008. But it did not happen and, subsequently, route alignment underwent changes and GST was rolled out,” said a senior official. The other factors which have pushed up the cost (from the initial estimate of around Rs 350 crore) are additional features such as landscaping, installation of road furniture, building large bridges and constructing roadside drains using reinforced cement concrete.
 
 Once GST took effect, the cost escalated to Rs 438 crore. The original lowest bid was Rs 469 crore and the government negotiated a final offer of Rs 466 crore.
 
 “It’ll be a 10-lane road, including two service roads on either side, and the project will be a boon for 22,000 site owners at Kempegowda Layout and adjoining villages,” the official said. Earlier, law minister TB Jayachandra had stated that around 320 acres would be acquired for the project.
 
 
 
 
 While BDA claims MAR would improve infrastructure and connectivity, opposition parties are crying foul.   state president B S Yeddyurappa recently termed the project ‘daylight robbery’ and took potshots at the government, stating, “While the Mangalyaan (moon) mission cost Rs 450 crore, the government here is spending Rs 468 crore to build a less than 12km road.”
 
 A BDA official said: “Work orders have not yet been issued. Some Rs 350 crore was set aside for this work in last year’s state budget and the road is being built according to Indian Road   standards. Unlike NHAI roads, which have mud drains in open areas, MAR will have RCC drains. Moreover, we are constructing bridges that are 100 metres wide, while NHAI’s bridges are 30-45 metres,” said a BDA official.
 
