By- Siddhant Mishra

 LUCKNOW: Class XII UP board topper 17-year-old Akash  , who secured 93.20% marks, came to his school to celebrate his success along with his parents, in an autorickshaw, driven by none other than his father, Kuldeep Maurya, an auto driver.
 
 “This is the happiest moment of our life ever. I had never thought I will top,” said   who had let out a scream of glee outside the examination centre in Barabanki where he had appeared in UP State Entrance Examination on Sunday, when his father broke the news to him.
 
 Akash also helped his sister Akansha in her board exams.
 
 “I scored good because of my brother. We never sat together for studies. But Akash taught me whenever I needed help. This way, we both gained,” said Akansha.
 
 Rajneesh Shukla from Fatehpur, jointly shares the first position in state with Akash, scoring identical 93.20%.
 
 “The results are fantastic. The credit goes to cheating-free examinations held this year,” said Rajneesh, son of KN Shukla, a school teacher, and  , a home-maker.
 
 Rajneesh wants to get into Indian Police Services.
 
 Elated with Rajneesh’s success, his school principal Jawahar Singh Rathore said, “He (Rajneesh) is a disciplined student, and minds his own business. Most importantly, he was regular to school despite living 20 kilometre away.”
 
 For Ananya Rai, class XII second ranker, the results were overwhelming. “I was watching results on television. My father screamed with joy when my name was announced. I was both shocked and delighted. The feeling is yet to sink in,” Ananya told TOI from Ghazipur.
 
 She plans to pursue graduation and then take up research in chemistry.
 
 Ananya’s father Manoj Kumar Rai is a farmer, and her mother   is a government school teacher and the force behind her success.
 
 “My daughter is very hard working and obedient. She is very disciplined, and used to get up early for studies on her own. I have always encouraged her to question and talk openly and freely, ” said Neelam.
 
 Her school principal Sister   said, “She is a laborious girl. In class X, she topped the school. Today, when results were being announced, I was murmuring her name and then I heard it. I literally jumped. It was such a delightful moment.”
 
 The third rank was again shared by two boys, Abhishek Kumar from Moradabad, and   Patel from Barabanki, both from family of farmers.
 
 “My father was irrigating his field when he got a call from school. He left everything and ran back home,” said Ajeet, adding that his father never denied him books or other resources despite facing hardships.
 
 For Abhishek, who is the prime minister of Chhatra Sansad in his school, the results were like hitting a jackpot.
 
 “It was definitely a big surprise. I followed a timetable and devoted additional time to subjects in which I was weak,” said Abhishek, whose father Rahees Pal is a farmer and mother Kanti Devi is a home-maker.
 
 Abhishek’s school teacher Nishant Chaudhary said, “He cycled 16 kilometres to school (up and down) everyday, and yet his attendance was almost 100%. This is how dedicated Abhishek is.”
 
