GUNTUR: Municipal corporation officials, who have steadfastly refuted allegations of contaminated drinking water being supplied to households in the city, reportedly managed to prevent the district collector from conducting an inspection of most-affected areas in Thursday’s field visit.

 Officials of   reportedly guided the collector to areas from where very few diarrhoea cases were reported and later took him to a health camp being organised at a municipal school, sources said.
 
 Surprisingly, the collector did not visit the family of the 25-year old woman who died of diarrhoea on Monday. According to sources, most of the diarrhoea cases reported from Barah Imam Panja colony in Guntur East constituency. Although Anand Pet and Barah Imam Panja were adjacent colonies, the GMC officials deliberately took the district collector to Anand Pet. In fact, the residence of the deceased woman   was also located in Barah Imam Panja colony, which is why the collector’s not turning up at Sabina’s house was all the more surprising, sources said . 
 
 Meanwhile, Muslim organisations slammed the GMC administration for misleading the district collector and the state government. “While the district medical and health officer conclusively confirmed that water contamination is the chief reason for diarrhoea, GMC officials are deliberately misleading the administration,” said   (MUF) leader  , demanding that the state government pay compensation to the kin of victim. He said the GMC officials, who are forcibly collecting taxes from the poor in   area, should own up responsibility for not providing potable water.
 
 Muslim clerics and other leaders held an emergency meeting at   (JUH) office and demanded that government order a high-level probe into the water contamination and take action against all those responsible. 
 
 Meanwhile, insiders said the engineering wing officials are reportedly pocketing no less than 50-60% of the amount spent through nomination works. Surprisingly, the AEs, who hurriedly put up the bills for repair works, would never inspect the localities and check the water quality after completion of repairs.
 
 Sources said the superintending engineer and commissioner would automatically clear most of the bills forwarded by AEs towards repair works keeping in view of the urgency to restore the supplies. Sources said that the engineering officials would never try to go for a permanent solution as making repairs to pipelines is something that would fetch them money throughout the year.
 
 
