Surat: Surat city and surrounding areas have become an abode of the endangered smooth-coated otters. At least 25 sites of otter presence in the city and district have been identified during the three-year-long study carried out by city-based Nature Club Surat (NCS) about the status, distribution and potential threats to elusive smooth-coated otters.  Following the success of study and increasing population of these otters, NCS along with the Wildlife Trust of India and the forest department have taken up rapid action project to engage the fishermen community in the otter research and conservation in the district. Few years ago, smooth-coated otters were on the verge of extinction in Gujarat, but they have made the rivulets, lakes and river in Surat district their homes in the last few years. The drastic reduction in their numbers were attributed to the rapid industrialization in and around Surat, pollution and decreasing water levels, which resulted in the loss of habitat. A group of 15-20 otters was spotted for the first time near Gavier lake on the Surat-Dumas road in 2013, which inspired the NCS volunteer Krunal Trivedi to initiate the first-ever study in 2015. “Otters survive in river Tapi and the wetlands of the city. Camera trapping revealed how the animals live a secretive life in human-dominated areas. We also rescued and reunited two otter pups in Olpaad during the study,” Trivedi said. NCS has identified various threats to otter population in Surat such as sand mining, illegal brewing unit on riverbanks, habitat loss, etc. One of the major threat was fishermen-otter conflict. Otters were observed feeding on fish caught in gill nets of fishermen. Otters use to tear the nets while eating this fishes, resulting in losses to the fishermen, who even tried to kill them sometimes.  Smooth-coated otters as aquatic predator at the top of food chain are good indicator species for healthy riverine ecosystem. They are known to live semi-aquatic life.  NCS president Snehal Patel said, “There is no specific data on their numbers, but there is a need for an immediate conservation plan for their protection. We have started the rapid action project to mitigate this negative interactions and engage fishermen community in conservation. This project will not only try to decrease conflict, but will also provide precious and informative data about this elusive animal.” Deputy conservator of forest (DCF) Punit Nayar said the project will involve relevant stakeholders to arrest the declining population of otters.