Greater Noida: A four-coach   train made its first official test run at 3.30pm on Tuesday on a section of the 29.7km   connecting Noida and  .

 Passenger operations on the 21-station corridor, according to the Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC), are “three to four months” away, if there are no glitches along the way. Full-fledged trials along the whole corridor are likely to start by March. However, even if commercial operations begin in April, commuters will have to wait till at least September to be able to access the Delhi Metro trains without having to exit the Metro corridor. The Aqua and Blue lines will be joined via a skywalk at Sector 71, the origin station of the Aqua line. But that portion of the Blue line (from Noida City Centre to Sector 62) won’t be completed until at least September 2018. 
 
 The first of the 19 Chinese-made rakes that will run on the Aqua line was flagged off for the official test run from Depot, the terminal station in Greater Noida. It travelled nearly a kilometre to the main depot (the yard-cum-operations hub of the network). 
 
 The launch of the network will not only significantly change the way Noida and Greater Noida commute but also the way they are perceived, both as business destinations and places to live. An operational Aqua line, along with the recently launched Magenta line, the existing Blue line and the Blue line extension (from Noida City Centre to Sector 62) will give Noida a total Metro coverage of 47km — among the highest in the country if existing lines and immediate expansion plans are taken into account. 
 
 Tuesday’s trial run was flagged off by Mangu Singh, managing director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), which is building the corridor, and Alok Tandon, who is both managing director of NMRC and CEO of Noida Authority. “Electrical and mechanical work for the corridor is 70% complete,” Tandon said. “Track laying and system work is in progress, 90% of the track has been laid and signalling work is 65% complete. Structural work on all 21 stations is also complete and finishing work is being carried out.”
 
 Tandon said the Aqua line will be integrated with the extension of the Blue line via an interchange at Sector 52 of the Noida City Centre to Sector 62 Metro corridor. “The Blue line extension will be ready for commissioning only by September 2018. We will build a skywalk to provide seamless connectivity to commuters from Sector 71 station of the Aqua line but until then the passengers will have to manage,” he said. “Once connected with the Blue line, the Aqua line will also be connected to the Magenta line providing connectivity up to Janakpuri,” he added.
 
 DMRC chief Singh said basic movement trials and validations were done over the last fortnight to ensure the train was ready to go onto the viaduct in the new year. During subsequent test runs, trains will undergo rigorous testing on signalling as well as interface with civil infrastructure. The rake that was tested arrived at Depot on December 14, 2017. It was imported from Nanjing in China. The coaches are being manufactured by CRRC Nanjing Corporation Ltd. 
 
 “Full-fledged oscillation trials will commence from February 15, after the substation in Sector 148 is energised, and after completion of full internal testing of the train at the depot. Thereafter, trials will be undertaken along the entire track by March 2018,” Singh said.
 
 Initially, NMRC will operate 11 trains along the corridor. The corridor will have a total of 19 train sets (76 coaches). The trains are expected to arrive from China every fortnight.
 
 A look at the coaches revealed that there are special seats in a dark Aqua colour for women, seniors citizens and the disabled. There are 16 such seats in each coach. A space has also been provided for commuters in wheelchairs in driving trailer cars at both the ends of the train.
 
 Digital voice announcements on train and route information and announcement of stations will be made in both Hindi and English. The operational control centre will also be able to communicate directly with the passengers in case of emergency announcements through speakers installed in each coach.
 
 
