Chennai:When Ajit Singh, senior product manager at Caratlane needed a solution to hook up multiple teams in warehousing, quality check, accounts and customer service in one platform, his first choice was not to approach the in-house IT team.  “Developers in an organisation are always scarce. It is better to manage things ourself, especially if we have short timelines,” said Singh. He used KiSSFLOW to build an app himself. “I designed it, tested and had it ready in a week. The platform is simple and highly intuitive so anyone can use it,” said Singh. This is the shift that low code platforms are bringing in, leading to the rise of citizen developers. Teams within a traditional business organization often view IT as a hurdle. When employees identify an issue and request an extra function from IT, it typically goes unresolved. Low code platforms resolve this issue, allowing professionals, who are not developers by trade, to build their own apps. Anyone from an HR manager to an operations head who wants to build their own app for use within the organisation counts as a citizen developer.  A clutch of Indian companies like OrangeScape and Zoho Creator are challenging henemoths like Microsoft and Salesforce. “The rise of the citizen developer denotes a paradigm shift that is key to digital transformation also called as DX 2.0. Low Code or No Code is the means to the end. The end user gets control of the app and users work on a self serve basis,” said Suresh Sambandam, CEO, KiSSFLOW. The platform is used by companies including Motorola, Michelin and Flipkart to build apps for employee onboarding, travel reimbursement, invoice approval, time sheets, employee training amonst several other use cases. At Zoho, the need to build Zoho Creator rose from an internal problem. “We didnt have a simple tool for tasks like booking a conference room, making cab arrangements or managing tasks within teams. That’s when we realises we needed a rapid application programming platform,” said Charles Adaikkalam V, senior product manager at Zoho. The company’s platform sees SRM University, Jet Airways and Tesla building apps for various requirements. Close to 2 million apps have been built by 10,000 paying organisations on the Zoho Creator.