KOLKATA: Guardrails that are haphazardly put up at key road intersections and flyover approaches, according to motorists, leave little space to wriggle through. Cops, however, argued this was a necessary menace that helped cut down speed, especially between 10pm and 8am when the number of traffic cops on the roads comes down to a trickle.

 The debate over their necessity arose a day after a truck keeled over while trying to manoeuvre a narrow gap between two   guardrails on Red Road on Thursday night, injuring four persons.
 
 Subhojit Dutt who drives from his   office to his Girish Park home every weekday, spoke about the guard rails placed on either end of the   flyover. “They just wheel them in without any thought that even a normal sedan wouldn’t have the width to pass it. The idea is to stop motorbikes on the flyover, but it is we who face the problem,” he said.
 
 Police, however, said guard rails were imperative to cut down the number of night-time accidents. “The accidents were caused due to over speeding. The truck involved in the Red Road accident had not slowed down even after noticing the guardrails. The government bus involved in the 6am accident on   on Saturday refused to slow down even after seeing the amber light. We do not have other options,” an officer said.
 
 Police said this was also the reason why guardrails were put up even during peak morning traffic on busy stretches like Majerhat on DH road and Mudiali on SP Mukherjee Road. But motorists complained that bigger vehicles couldn’t negotiate the gaps and usually knocked them down, affecting traffic flow.
 
 Police sources said in 2015, a new set of guardrails were procured which were lighter than the old ones. The advantage of the new ones was the interlocking system, but they were also easy to knock over.
 
 The cops insist there are no other measures to reduce vehicular speed at such a low price. “We keep guardrails only when traffic density is light and we put them up near crossings. Each vehicle must slow down at crossings. This accident was an aberration. Removing the guardrails will lead to more accidents,” said an officer.
 
 The traffic cops, however, said it was important to follow science while putting up the guardrails. “They should typically be positioned in areas where the divide between pedestrians and traffic is small, or there are tight corners where vehicles are nearthe edge of walkways. There should also be enough space between two guardrails for heavy vehicles to pass,” said an officer.
 
 Guard rails, sources said, can be dangerous if they are made of weak materials like wood and metal for they tend to simply buckle under the impact of a vehicle. They may also break and become highway debris, which make roads unsafe.
 
