KOLKATA: When third-year IIT-Kharagpur student Krushi Bandi served lunch to mess worker Sanjay Modak at the institute’s Lal Bahadur Shastri Hall, it wasn’t merely a temporary reversal of roles. For the institute that churns out tech graduates who vie for multi-million-rupee starting salaries, this role reversal was meant to be a lesson in humility, a way of telling its students that life was worth more than the CGPAs — and millions — earned.

 The country’s oldest   has embarked on a unique programme to instil in its students life lessons that go beyond the chapters learnt in classrooms. Students have been waiting on their “mess bhaiyas” — and serving food to those who wait on them throughout the year — at the hostels on campus as part of this programme that started last month and will continue throughout the year.
 
 “It was a special moment for me,” Bandi said. “After serving lunch to the person who fed me all through the past three years and ensured that I never went to bed on an empty stomach, we sat next to each other for dinner,” the third-year Metallurgical Engineering student added.
 
 As many as 5,000 students across the eight students’ hostels — called halls on the   campus — have already taken part in this initiative after it kicked off from Bandi’s LBS Hall, before moving on to the Meghnad Saha, Rajendra Prasad, Vidyasagar, Sister Nivedita, Lala Lajpat Rai, Patel and Azad Halls. The other halls will pick up the thread after July, when a new batch joins.
 
 Learning to give back to society was the idea behind the move, according to Institute Wellness Group (IWG), which is dedicated to building a united community on the campus. The “mess bhaiyas (or dadas)” have always been go-to persons for students at their home away from home. From taking care of midnight hunger pangs to ensuring that students go to exam halls with enough food to last them the day, these people have always been considered family by students. Now, say IWG members, it is time to walk the talk.
 
 According to Bandi, a sharp rise in the number of students over the years has diminished the personal bonding between mess workers and students. “We hope to revive that bond,” he said. 
 
 His friend,  , from the civil engineering department added: “Our hall has mess workers who have been with us for a decade or even more. But, recently, the mess dadas were relocated to new halls and we had new staff. All that bonding was lost and it was back to a more worker-student relationship. This activity has bridged that gap,” Dwivedi smiled.
 
 “Bonding after the re-allotment will take some time. But we believe the bond is stronger when students take the first step,” Bandi added.
 
 For third-year maths student Anubhav Pratik, a resident of the LLR Hall, the programme helped him “get a glimpse of the old IIT-Kgp life”. “The IWG has succeeded in reaching out to and involving thousands on the campus, which is great,” he felt.
 
 The month-long activity saw participation from even the administrative staff; hall management committees, administrative staff and hall wardens have all come together, spending quality time together. So, when Rajendra Prasad Hall of Residence warden   shared the table with mess dadas, a worker could not hold himself back, saying how he had never experienced anything like this in 11 years.
 
 Teachers feel this adds to privileged youngsters’ awareness of things like dignity of labour and the importance of humane behaviour to the less privileged.
 
 
