JAIPUR: Union minister of state for agriculture and farmer welfare Gajendra Singh  , who is a parliamentarian from Jodhpur, is believed to be the most probable candidate for the post of state   president.

 Parnami’s resignation, which was accepted by the party high command on Wednesday, has sparked off discussions on his successor, which the BJP national leadership is expected to announce soon. Several names were being discussed and campaigning for others was being done quite strongly but sources with the party claimed that Shekhawat is the front-runner for the post.
 
 Shekhawat’s get stronger given the fact that the saffron party’s is trying to make special efforts to win back its traditional supporters, the Rajputs, who distanced themselves from it over alleged sidelining of their leaders by chief minister Vasundhara Raje. 50-year-old Shekhawat, popularly addressed by his supporters as `Gajju bana’, has an RSS grooming and the first-time MP became a member of PM Narendra Modi’s team in September 2017. Shekhawat is known for his ideological, traditional but progressive thinking. He is one of the most viewed and followed leaders on Quora, a popular Q&A blogging site, with 73,337 followers. 
 
 Sources claimed that there the slight reluctance while finalising his name was BJP’s fears that a Rajput as state president might upset the Jat voters. Shekhwat is presently travelling abroad and is scheduled to return on April 21.
 
 Apart from Shekhawat, union minister of state in ministry of water resources, river development and Ganga rejuvenation and Bikaner MP Arjun Ram Meghwal, state minister for social justice and welfare   are also believed to be in the fray.
 
 ``The chances of somebody from the upper caste to be appointed as state president are higher than any of the reserved communities. The party high command has discussed the matter with CM Vasundhara Raje and the final decision and announcement will come after mutual consultation,’’ said a senior party member.
 
 
