UDAIPUR: In yet another incident of broad daylight hooliganism, a BJP   from Garhi constituency in   misbehaved, manhandled and threatened toll plaza staff on Friday. 

 The legislator was caught on the CCTV camera installed inside the toll cabin where he barged in and slapped a toll worker and pulled him by hairs. Later, after the videos went viral on the social media, the politician's men reportedly managed the entire episode and the toll worker was removed from seat. Meanwhile, no police complaint has been lodged by anyone in the matter, SP   said.
 
 According to sources, Khant was travelling with some of his men in private vehicles from Bhimpur to Banswara. On the way, they stopped at Badaliya toll plaza on the Banswara-Udaipur road where reportedly the toll worker demanded toll fees from Khant's supporters. This allegedly infuriated the MLA who got inside the toll cabin. Two videos of the incident went viral over the social media. One of it shows the MLA wearing a green kurta, slapping and pulling hairs of a worker. He is also seen hurling abuses and threatening the staff after the shameful behaviour.
 
 Meanwhile, Khant said, "I was returning after a stone-laying ceremony of Gaurav Path project in Bhimpur. I wasn't travelling in my personal car but in a private vehicle. So, at the toll plaza, I revealed my identity and asked the man to let the car pass as legislators are exempted from toll fee. The man deliberately took much time and finally he lifted the gate. As the car was passing through, the gate was pulled down which hit the back portion and damaged the vehicle. My reaction was quite natural what would any other person do had he been in the similar situation,'' claimed the MLA.
 
 In a recent announcement, the government had exempted toll fees for private vehicles on the state highways. 
 
 However, a notification is yet to be received at the toll plazas and for the reasons, toll booths continue to charge fees from cars. At Badaliya toll plaza too, the management had displayed a notice announcing that the private vehicles would have to pay the toll fees since the fee exemption notification is yet to be received.
 
 "We have received no complaints yet, neither by the toll worker nor from the management. But taking a suo motu cognizance over the video that went viral, I asked for an enquiry by the concerned Sadar police station but the toll incharge said that the toll worker too had been in fault as he operated the barricade carelessly which fell on the car's body and damaged it. The incharge told our officer that the worker has been removed from the seat,"   SP Kaluram Rawat said.
 
 
