PUNE: Be prepared to temporarily bid goodbye to your driving licence if you are found with your earphones plugged in or you are caught talking on the cellphone while driving a car or riding a two-wheeler. 

 The Pune traffic police on April 25 launched an intensified effort to curb use of cellphones on the road. If caught, it will lead to suspension of the offender’s licence. Earlier, offenders were let off with just a penalty. 
 
 
 
  
 
 Despite repeated efforts from the Pune police to spread awareness about the use of cellphone while driving, most road users continue to flout the rules. 
 
 “We have been trying hard to make people aware about the ill effects of using a cellphone while driving. However, these awareness drives or action initiated against such offenders in terms of fines have yielded little result. Many people continue to use cellphones while driving. A month ago we decided to intensify action against offenders and have started confiscating licences for suspension since April 25,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic)   told TOI. 
 
 He said they would crack the whip on drivers found with earphones plugged in. “Though a driver may be only listening to music using the earphones, it causes distractions and he or she may not be able to hear the background sounds, instructions from the police or honking by other road users. The person’s attention from the road is diverted and can lead to other traffic violations. We have thus decided to ensure that action is taken even against those listening to music using earphones,” he said. 
 
 According to Morale, the traffic police have registered over 3,000 cases of people using cellphones while driving in the last fortnight. “We have decided to suspend the licences based on a Rajasthan high court decision as well as a provision in the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989. When an offender is caught, we will confiscate the licence and deposit it with the   (RTO) for suspension. A licence will be suspended for a maximum period of three months,” he explained. 
 
 Morale added that if an offender is nabbed for the second time, he or she will face suspension of license again. “In case of repeated offences, the RTO can even decide on permanent revocation of the driving licence,” he added.
 
 
