Nagpur: To mark the death anniversary of freedom fighter Swatantrya Veer Savarkar, Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Natya Parishad and Sakhe Sobti Foundation jointly organized a cultural programme titled ‘Amar Aag’ at Bhat Hall, Reshimbagh, on Monday.

 The entire event was divided into two sections wherein each section spoke about different historical events. While the first half comprised anecdotes on Vedas created by the Aryans, Chakravarti Ashok Samrat’s traditions, Alexander’s attack, Devgiri Empire in Maharashtra, era of Shivaji, the second half conveyed the tales relating to 1857 war of independence, Panipat, independence achieved owing to the sacrifices of various freedom fighters and more.
 
 Host Mandar Paralikar, who also conceptualized the event, was very passionate and expressive in the narration of the stories which made the audience visualize a realistic scenario of the same. His voice modulation and emotions were highly appreciated. Every narration was followed by a song with a video on the backdrop which made the process of recalling the historical moments a lot more captivating. Paralikar criticized people forgetting the history and traditions of the nation and accepting the distorted form of it as shown in movies for the sake of entertainment.
 
 Singers Abhijeet Panchbhai, Ajit Vispute, Anuradha Patwardhan, Meenal Ponkshe and Amita Ghugri presented various melodies like ‘Onkar anadi anant’, ‘Om namo Narayanaya’, ‘Myanatun usale’, ‘Ved mantrahun amha’, ‘Shat janma shodhitana’ and more with great versatility. The songs ‘Jaydev jaydev jay Shivraya’and ‘He Hinda Shakti, which are Savarkar’s compositions evoked an encore. Shankh played at the end of the song ‘Marathi paul padte pudhe’ was one of the highlights of the show.
 
 In the beginning of the second half, Dholak player won the hearts of the crowd with a soulful instrumental music piece in which other musicians blended in. Paralikar amazed everyone when he played the tambourine while presenting the powada ‘Jayostute’. The show ended with ‘Jayostute shri mahan mangale’ as a tribute to Savarkar.
 
 Amruta Gogte and group staged beautiful dances with impressive expressions and synchronization during some performances.
 
 CA Rajesh Loya, social activist Kanchan Gadkari, Shailesh Kalkar, Mukul Kanitkar and former mayor Praveen Datke also graced the event. Loya, speaking at the occasion appreciated the unique concept and also said that such programme help in making us remember our glorious history. Gadkari through a song expressed the need to make the youth realize the importance of patriotism.
 
 
