In the latest episode of Naamkaran, Avni watches   play a game. Sunheri tells her that a family had come to adopt Jeetu. Avni asks Jeetu to behave and make her proud. She feels emotional and says that she cannot stand lose Mowgli.

 
 The lawyer talks to Kamini and informs her about the plan working. Kamini feels happy and says that Avni's life will soon be ruined. Saisha meets Avni. As she is about to tell her something about Kamini, Mowgli comes there.
 
 As Mowgli calls her mumma, Avni gets emotinal and recalls what   told her before. Saisha tries talking to her but Avni's attention is elsewhere.
 
 Saisha tells Avni about Kamini plotting against her. Avni ignores her and asks her to concentrate on her marriage. The kids take Saisha away with them.
 
 Sunheri finds Avni crying after seeing the court papers. She gets tensed wondering how would she fight against Neil at the court and says that she cannot see Neil taking Mowgli away from him. A stranger comes and talks to Avni. He introduces himself as a lawyer and says that he will help her win the case against Neil.
 
 Avni and Neil reach the courthouse. The custody battle begins. Neil's lawyer defends the case and says that Neil never had a chance to spend time with his son and holds Avni responsible for lying to him. Avni defends herself and says that Mowgli needed a mother's love and doesn't want Mowgli living with Neil. The court gets adjurned till the next day.
 
 As they get out of the court, Avni pleads Neil to not snatch Mowgli away from him and says that she was helpless at the time. Neil doesn't listen to her.   supports him and calls Avni a liar. Neil tells her that it was best if the court made the final decision.
 
 Sunehri consoles Avni and tells her to talk to Neil. Avni tells her that Neil hates her and would never agree to her. Neil comes in with a court paper and says that he had permission to spend a day alone with Mowgli. Avni again begs her to not take the case to the court. Avni asks Mowgli to go with Neil but he refuses and says that he wants to stay with Avni.
 
