MUMBAI: Acquitting six men of gangraping a 17-year-old domestic help in 2014, a special POCSO Act court said the woman's testimony was riddled with contradictions and inconsistencies. Four of the six accused, aged 27-35, have been in jail since 2014. "On the sole testimony of the (complainant), the accused can be convicted if the testimony is found cogent and reliable. On shattered testimony, without corroboration, the accused cannot be convicted," the court said. The woman gave varied versions in her testimony and during cross-examination by the defence. 

 The court said that in rape, especially  , prior and post conduct of the survivor as well as the accused is important. Besides citing various factors, the court also said, "If any girl is subject to gangrape, she must have pain. It is... impossible for (her)... to do all the other things in a normal way. (After the incident, the complainant in the case) did not state anything to her parents or anyone. (Her) behaviour (was) very strange." 
 
 The court said that she took another job and worked there for a week, as if nothing had happened with her. "It means that after the incident she was leading a normal life," the court said.
 
 The court pointed out that her delay in lodging the  , three months after the first incident, was not explained. It said that her friend, who was present in the flat during the first instance, did not run out to get help or was targeted by the accused; she was not examined as a witness. The court also said it was not proved that the girl was a minor at the time of the incident.
 
 The girl said that in February 2014, one of the accused, whom she had known since childhood, came to her place of employment and said if she didn't come out he would create trouble. The woman said she took her friend, another help working in the house, and went to meet the accused. She alleged that the man forcibly took her to a flat in  , where two other accused were present. She alleged that while the friend was made to sit in the living room, she was taken to the bedroom, where she was raped by the trio. The woman said the main accused threatened to kill her parents if she revealed the incident.
 
 She said that on April 1,2014, a fourth accused blackmailed her with a video of the rape and two days later, this man, along with the main accused and another man, gangraped her. The girl alleged that after that the main accused raped her twice. On April 20, 2014, she went to the police.
 
 
