GURUGRAM: It was supposed to be a straightforward delivery. But as Meena gave birth to a girl, there was an unforeseen complication. She had a second fetus in her womb, a boy.

 Meena had two ultrasonography reports when she was admitted to the   in   ( ) on January 21, both saying she was carrying one child. The government hospital team was, therefore, taken aback when she went into labour right after delivering the girl. Another child, they realised, was on its way. But the baby could not be saved. 
 
 Meena and her husband Hiranand (36), a panchayat member in Alipur near Sohna, have two daughters, aged 6 and 3 years. Meena conceived a third time last year. For her ultrasonography, she went to Goyal Ultrasound & Diagnostic Centre in Sohna, first on September 29, 2017, and then on January 17 this year. Both times, the report said she was carrying a “single, live, intra uterine fetus”.
 
 Doctors at the Sohna hospital used these reports as their reference; this government facility does not have a USG machine of its own. The doctors gave Meena a delivery date of March 6, 2018. But Meena’s water broke on January 21. She was rushed to the Sohna hospital at 11pm.
 
 Using the same USG reports as their reference, the hospital team supervised the delivery a girl at 11.10pm. No C-section was done. But 10 minutes after the delivery, Meena experienced severe pain in her back and abdomen. After carrying out checks, doctors realized she had another baby in the womb. The second baby, a boy, was delivered at 11.30pm. This delay of 20 minutes may have been fatal, the doctors said.
 
 Meena, who has approached the civil surgeon with a complaint of medical negligence, told TOI on Tuesday, “The doctors got upset with us and asked us why we had not told them I was carrying twins. The boy was in the womb and he probably inhaled amniotic fluid or was deprived of oxygen. Therefore, he had trouble breathing after he was born. But we had no idea I was carrying twins. I lost my son due to someone else’s negligence.”
 
 Around 2am on January 22, doctors at the Sohna hospital said the boy was critical and referred him and Meena to Gurugram’s main government hospital in Civil Lines. But, according to Meena and her husband, the Civil Lines hospital told them could accommodate only one baby since all cots were occupied. At 3am, they were referred to Delhi’s   hospital.
 
 Meena and her babies were admitted there at 5am. By then, the boy’s health had worsened and he was put on oxygen in the NICU. On January 25, doctors told the couple at 5.30am that the boy was breathing at intervals of 20 minutes. Later in the day, at 3.30pm, the baby was declared dead.
 
 Hiranand said Meena was still suffering from complications. “She has fever, severe body ache and weakness for a week. We are worried about her health,” said Hiranand, who has named the USG centre in the complaint and demanded action against its owner.
 
 “We have received the complaint and the medical negligence board will conduct an inquiry. Necessary action will be taken against the USG centre if any negligence is found,” said Dr  , civil surgeon, Gurugram.
 
