Hyderabad: In the 1890s, a T-shirt was a slip-on, a mere underwear worn by the American soldiers. In the 50s, after its first appearance in Marlon Brando’s ‘A Streetcar Named Desire’, it became cool, sexy, and perhaps even subversive. For the counter-culturists in the 70s, a tee was a mode of self-expression, rebel with a cause, a symbol of dissent, even a messenger of peace and love.

 100 years on, the T-Shirt continues to remain like a second skin for many, casual for some, serious business for others. In its new ‘avatar’, the humble cotton tee is knit with technology.
 
 City-based serial entrepreneur Ayappa Nagubandi of   claims his startup is a marriage of textiles with technology. “It’s the world’s first programmable, touch enabled, washable (handwash) and waterproof tee,” claims Ayappa.
 
 Named Sygnal, the T-shirt is embedded with 960 one millimeter thin Surface Mountable Diode LEDs (SMD-LEDs) with printed circuit board. Further, sensors are embedded in a micro-chip which is stitched on the upper back portion of the T-shirt along with a battery, explains Ayappa holding out the T-shirt. These sensors can read calories burnt, record the number of daily footsteps, floors climbed and distance travelled. It even navigates the wearer without the help of any Maps or the navigation on your phone.
 
 “Clothing is not just about fashion. It should motivate us to lead a healthy life each day. Our T-Shirts are interactive, also proactive in making peoples' lives healthy. Fitness apart, you can also broadcast your mood on our T-Shirts. Type the text and the same will scroll on the T-shirt. Draw whatever you want and send it to the T-Shirt. Like for instance you can convey personalized visual messages like “i am happy or i am sad”, “i hate war”, “keep calm and carry on,” “i love you”. You can also animate the T-shirt by selecting one of the pre-saved animations on the app and display them on your T-shirt,” chuckles Ayappa. 
 
 So how does it work? “First step is to download the Broadcast app called Sygnal, then connect your phone to the T-shirt via Bluetooth. You can change the designs on the T-Shirt with a flick of your finger or change messages multiple times, it then gets transmitted onto the T-shirt. Users have to tap on the LED panel to switch it on and tap again to switch it off,” says his co-founder wife and naturopath Mahalaxmi Nagubandi.
 
 There are a wide array of wearable devices like fitness trackers and smart watches that offer health guidance in real time, but Ayappa is optimistic “the market for wearables is growing. Besides we have little or no competition,” he says.
 
 Like the T-Shirt wore several ‘avatars’ in its life time so did Ayappa. Life was a roller coaster ride for this 40-something entrepreneur from living in a single-room house in Bolarum to buying, even borrowing second hand books to study or working hard to pay off his school fees. At 14, he was a daily wager with the State Bank of Hyderabad, working some 5 hours a day for a measly Rs 25. At 15, he ran errands for a grocery stores in Bolarum, making a puny Rs 300 a month even while attending the school for his crucial Class X board exams.
 
 At 16, he was what he calls a “social media manager” for Tollywood hero Jagapathi Babu. His job was to manage a flood of fan mails, drop a few one-liners on the back of Jagapathi Babu's photograph with the hero's autograph. He was paid Rs 600, a job he did for two-and-a-half years. 
 
 But Ayappa was a man of all seasons and perhaps for all the right reasons. At Class XII, he was a “seasonal soloprenuer” selling crackers during Diwali, kites during Sankranti and colours during Holi. “It was quench for money. Those were my first entrepreneurial ideas,” laughs Ayappa as he swivels in his CEO chair. A graduate in BSC (Computers) and a computer programmer by training, he’s worked for former Satyam Computer Services for Rs 6,000. “At that time, working for Satyam was like working for NASA,” says Ayappa all animated. The big break came in 2000 when Ayappa was sent to Singapore with a fat pay check of over Rs 1 lakh a month.
 
 “Four-lane highway, express ways, metros and multiplexes. I felt wow, this is life. Singapore was spectacular, a thriving lab for testing smart solutions,” recalls Ayappa. But since his school days, Ayappa always knew he wanted to own his own business and working for someone else was nothing less than frustrating. When in the US, the entrepreneurial drive pushed him to co-found a couple of tech firms dabbling in web and voice technologies space but soon enough went kaput post-the Lehman Brothers collapse. “Companies die, ideas don't,” smiles Ayappa claiming he has several ideas up his sleeves.
 
 
