KOLKATA: A decade before Supreme Court’s landmark judgment permitting ‘living will’ by patients on withdrawing medical support if they slip into irreversible coma, Dr Bibeksmaran   had expressed his unequivocal will to his family on what they should do if doctors put him on ventilator.

 “I don’t recall what exactly led to the discussion 10 years ago. Perhaps, it was my disgust over the unscrupulous practice of keeping patients on ventilator support even when doctors knew there was no hope. I told my wife and children that they should not allow it to happen with me. ‘If I am on ventilator for three days and doctors aren’t able to provide hope convincingly, remove me from ventilator against a discharge on risk bond and bring me home so that I can die in peace than be kept alive by the hospital to further inflate the bill’ is what I have told them,” the general physician recounted.
 
 At 77 years, Paul is in prime health and continues to practice medicine. With no known ailment, there are no imminent fears of hospitalization. But he is still very wary of what could happen if landed in an ICU and was put on respiratory support. “I have seen patients being kept on ventilator for days at end without reason. The patient just lies there till death occurs due to cardiac arrest. Doctors don’t even follow up on the patient. Only the bill keeps getting fatter with Rs 8,000-Rs 10,000 added daily.”
 
 Paul said he had since repeated his will to his wife, son and daughter and was confident they would carry it out instead of giving in to sentimentality of keeping a loved one alive even when there was no hope.
 
 “What happens in some hospitals is absolutely unnecessary. Some even put elderly patients on ventilator support without informing the family and then refuse to take them off it, citing medical protocol and ethics. Actually, it is the most unethical thing to do. By all means, use a ventilator when there is a chance of a patient getting well. But when they will not do so, please don’t. Apart from wringing the patient’s family, it also deprives another critical patient with a better chance of getting well of the hospital bed and the ventilator.”
 
 Paul, who passed out from   in 1966 and has a diploma in chest and skin, is glad the   saw reason and gave legal sanction to passive euthanasia.
 
