CHANDIGARH: On Saturday when a room of one of the oldest hostels of the   (PU) caught fire, it raised some important questions. There is no exit option in the rooms other than the doors, which eventually open into a narrow corridor. There are seven rooms in one block, which is separated from another block through an open space. However, there are no balconies in this particular hostel. 

 "There were not many hostellers in the hostel today. But if such a fire would have happened in midnight while we were in our rooms, what escape route would have we used? There is no window in the room and there are no balconies. There is a provision for the window, which is covered by a transparent glass, and cannot be opened. The door opens in the narrow corridor, which in case of a fire cannot be used," said a student of the hostel number 3.
 
 When TOI visited the hostel on Saturday, at not one place but at number of places, loose wires were found hanging. Moreover, the rooms in the girls' hotel number 3 had no windows and were covered using a transparent glass.
 
 "The old buildings like this are at higher risks because there are no fire-rated materials used in these buildings. There is a need to do fire audits of the buildings. Also, we have to consider the fact that these are heritage buildings and their care is important," said principal of  , Sangeeta Bagga.
 
 Interestingly, the fact-finding committee chaired by  , former judge,   and   high court, has proposed building escape routes one on either side of each floor of the administrative block of the Panjab University, a part of which was engulfed in the fire in May earlier this year. For this, the University authorities have been asked to provide inputs of how many escape routes are required to be built and the breadth of the staircases. However, here in the old hostels of the university, there are no step-out balconies in the room, leave alone escape routes.
 
 A fire mock drill was also conducted at the ground and first floor of the administrative block as recently as on December 27 to assess the time taken to evacuate the building and provide input to the fact-finding committee.
 
 After the fire incident at Panjab University's administrative block, the PU registrar had issued instructions to all the departments of the university. It was clearly mentioned in the instructions that no room heaters or other electrical appliances should be used in the building, without prior approval of the S.D.E. (Electrical)/ XEN - I. However, there was one heater in the hostel room that caught fire on Saturday.
 
 Moreover, the instructions also stated that all fire extinguishers in respective areas should be refilled and checked for their serviceability periodically at least once in a month by respective branch head. In hostel number 3 as well, the extinguishers were refilled and the due date of refilling was in June, 2018.
 
 
