Nagpur: Traffic snarls on   will continue even after the Supreme Court’s rejection of three special leave petitions filed by over 200 shopkeepers against road widening from existing 15m to 24m.

 The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is yet to decide on the compensation for shopkeepers affected due to the work. Confirming this, a senior NMC officer told TOI that to begin with, the civic body has decided to raze its six properties including the Gandhibagh zone premises.
 
 He said the NMC could not start demolishing private properties as it is yet to finalize the compensation part for the affected people.
 
 This road is the lifeline of Central Nagpur and connects with South Nagpur and Bhandara Road. Besides, the main market of Mahal is situated on both sides of the road. Due to its narrow width, this patch has become infamous for frequent congestion.
 
 Former mayor Pravin Datke, who is a corporator from the area, too has been pursuing the proposal since 2007. 
 
 The general body had approved widening of Kelibagh Road from Central Avenue and passing through Badkas Square, Kotwali police station and ending at CP and Berar College, on March 29, 2008.
 
 Following a request from NMC, the Maharashtra government issued a notification only on November 12, 2014, under MRTP Act, 1966, allowing it to widen the road from 15 to 24m, with a view to reduce congestion.
 
 A private agency has demarcated the road. As per the agency report, NMC will acquire around 1455.82 sq m land for widening the 1.5km patch. Apart from individual property owners, many affected portions of the land are owned by NMC, state government and Matru Seva Sangh Hospital.
 
 Besides, a portion of a mosque and a temple will also be razed. NMC has also received a no-objection certificate from the hospital for demolition.
 
 Though NMC has already issued demolition notices to 157 shopkeepers, it has to provide compensation to the affected people. NMC has started interacting with them. “We will offer either TDR or   as compensation to the land owners,” the officer said. 
 
 “To begin with, we have decided to start demolition of our properties,” said the officer. A direction in this regard has already been issued to the enforcement department led by assistant municipal commissioner  .
 
 Meanwhile, district collector Ashwin Mudgal, who is also holding additional charge as municipal commissioner, additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare, along with senior civic officials and Nazul department accompanied by Datke on Tuesday visited the road. Later, Mudgal directed to speed up the demolition work.
 
 
