NEW DELHI:   last night summoned US Ambassador   to officially lodge its protest US President Donald 
  in his first tweet of the new year, reported The Express Tribune.

 
  
 A day later, 
  , by blocking $255 million in aid until Islamabad demonstrates it is serious about cracking down on terrorism, reported PTI. 
 
 Pakistan’s prime minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi has meanwhile summoned a meeting of the country’s National Security Committee (NSC) today, to discuss what action needs to be taken following the US President’s comments.
 
 Earlier, the US Embassy confirmed to the Tribune that Hale was summoned by Pakistan's foreign office at 9pm Pakistan time Monday.
 
 Trump had tweeted bright and early on January 1 that Pakistan offers "lies and deceit" and   for terrorists in return for the aid the US bestows on it. 
 
  "The United States has foolishly given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid over the last 15 years, and they have given us nothing but lies and deceit, thinking of our leaders as fools. They give safe haven to the terrorists we hunt in Afghanistan, with little help. No more!," warned Trump in his tweet.
 
  
  
 Trump's warning comes after several similar warnings by other US officials, following the administration's new South Asia policy that was unveiled in August, when Trump first launched a broadside against Pakistan.
 
 Still, all these months later, Pakistan has done little against terror originating on its soil. Late last month, the Lahore high court even ordered the release of 26/11 Mumbai attacks mastermind  .
 
 Pakistan remained defiant even yesterday.
 
 "We will respond to President Trump's tweet shortly inshallah...Will let the world know the truth...difference between facts & fiction..." tweeted Pakistan's foreign minister Khawaja Asif, minutes after Trump tweeted. 
 
  
  
 “We have already told the US that we will not do more, so Trump’s ‘no more’ does not hold any importance,” Asif told a TV channel. “Pakistan is ready to publicly provide every detail of the US aid that it has received.”
 
 A Pakistani senator meanwhile tweeted saying the US doesn't have a leg to stand on because 'coalition support funds' - funds for helping the war on terror - don't count as aid.
 
  
  
 
 
