MUMBAI: CM Devendra   said on Wednesday the state is considering bringing builders under the ambit of MPIDA, the law that protects investors and is currently used against those floating Ponzi schemes.

 NCP legislator Kiran   raised the issue of   in the legislative council and said the firm had taken up construction activity in Kanjurmarg and duped consumers to the tune of Rs7 crore.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Asked about action taken against the builder, Fadnavis said the developer had been held and efforts were on to bring back and take action against another two accused based abroad.
 
 When Pawaskar said the builder was yet to return flatbuyers’ money and had not completed the project either, Fadnavis said it was true that most builders become even more brazen after being jailed. “They think there is nothing worse that can happen to them after that. The state government is now considering amending the MPIDA so that such developers who do not return money nor deliver flats to consumers are included. It will allow their properties to be auctioned,” he said.
 
  MLC   said that several tenanted buildings had been brought down and their redevelopment not completed. Fadnavis said there were many such complaints before the Economic Offences Wing ( ), and the government was considering a policy whereby tenants will be given an opportunity to complete the project. “If they are unable to do so, Mhada will take over the project and complete it,” he said.
 
 The EOW, which handles cases under MPIDA in Mumbai, has sought the opinion of the special court hearing these cases in the city if they can invoke the law against Bhagtani Developers in a case. If the court allows EOW to do so, Bhagtani Developers could be the first builder in the city to be booked under the stringent Act.
 
 Hundreds of homebuyers who booked flats in Bhagatnis’ many projects have approached the EOW saying they were cheated as the developers did not construct/hand over flats on time. The case is currently being investigated by the EOW’s housing unit. If the court okays EOW’s request, the case will be transferred to the special MPIDA unit that EOW has.
 
 “During the investigation into one of the cases against Bhagtani Developers, we got to know the accused had promised to give investors interest on their investments. Moreover, they issued allotment letters. We have mentioned this in our letter to the court,” said an EOW official. Earlier, all accused in cheating cases would be booked only under the Indian Penal Code. But with the introduction of MPIDA, investigating agencies got powers to book them also under this Act and to attach properties. Currently, over 200 cases involving an amount of more than Rs12,000 crore are being probed by the EOW.
 
 However, EOW sources said that all builders whose cases come to the EOW will not be booked under MPIDA even if the state government decides to expand the scope of the law.
 
 “There will be some criteria. Developers who have gone bankrupt, those who have the intention of cheating investors or those who say they have no finances to complete their works even after they have collected money may be brought under the Act. It’s at the opinion-seeking stage now and it will be premature to say about it,” said an EOW officer.
 
