BENGALURU: In 2008, when BS   took oath as the first   chief minister with an “almost” full majority, the streets leading to Vidhana Soudha were jampacked. Central Business District shut down for three hours, and thousands of people stood in the blazing sun to witness the historic political scenario of the BJP forming its first government on its own in south India.

 
 At that year’s swearing-in ceremony, central BJP leaders who watched from a specially constructed podium included Rajnath Singh, LK Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi and  .PM Modi, who was then Gujarat CM, Chhattisgarh CM Raman Singh and Madhya Pradesh CM Shivaraj Singh Chauhan were also present.
 
 Ten years later, on Thursday, Yeddyurappa, now 75, had a rather tame swearing-in ceremony in what was a “closeted” affair inside the glass house of  , where usually only “lone ministers” are sworn in or “cabinet expansions” take place.
 
 With uncertainty looming large, yet again, Yeddyurappa’s third swearing-in was sans any fanfare. Barring five Union ministers, including   elections incharge Prakash Javadekar and Bengaluru MPs HN Ananth Kumar and DV  , only state party leaders were present.
 
 Prior to the results, rumours were afloat that Yeddyurappa had, in fact, booked   in the city for his swearing-in, giving an idea as to what the party was expecting in its victory parade.
 
 However, at a press conference later, Yeddyurappa dismissed any interpretations of the “subdued” atmosphere, saying, “As soon as the trust vote is won, we will hold a public rally of three to four lakh people, and in the presence of PM Modi, BJP national president Amit Shah and BJP chief ministers from other state, the cabinet expansion will take place.”
 
 Yeddyurappa wore a brand new safari suit and topped it off with a green shawl, projecting himself as a farmer leader. The oath was administered by governor  , in the presence of hundreds of BJP party workers.
 
 Contrary to reports that four other BJP MLAs, including B Sreeramulu (ST),   (Vokkaliga), Govind Karjol (Dalit) and KS Eshwarappa (Kuruba) were to be sworn in, Yeddyurappa was the lone person to take oath.“We will take oath after the BJP proves its majority in the trust vote,” said Ashoka.
 
 The mood at Raj Bhavan appeared to be that of a “moral” victory with little apprehension, at least outwardly, about the impending floor test. Party sources said Yeddyurappa’s swearing-in was half the battle won for BJP and the “rest could be managed”.
 
 Earlier in the day, Yeddyurappa went to the Radhakrishna temple in Sanjaynagar, as he did twice before when he took over as CM. He bowed before the grand stairs of the secretariat and later held a small puja in his room to appease the gods.
 
 Late evening, he visited Siddaganga Mutt in Tumakuru to seek the blessings of Shivakumar Swami.
 
 
