There were many firsts for   in  . For one, despite working with a team that consists of largely newbies, it was one of the most professional film teams that she had worked with. She got to work with veteran actors, such as   and Rangayana Raghu; Sonu also got a crash-course in encryption and  .
Telling us more, Sonu — who plays Pooja, an instructor at a computer training institute — says, “There are surprise elements in the film, and screenplay is a big part of it. I have a major role in the film, and Pooja is connected to all the other characters in some way. How everyone’s is connected will only be revealed when you watch the film.”
 While working with senior actors teaches a young actor a lot, Sonu also got a lesson in engineering in Gultoo. “I’m not an engineering student, but as an instructor, I had to learn several tech terms, which I teach students in the movie. This included things like encrypting and decrypting, and I had to ask Janardhan (Chikkanna, director) what they meant. Even some of the assistant directors are engineers, so I felt quite illiterate around them (laughs). Now, after having done Gultoo, I can at least explain what encryption and decryption mean,” says Sonu.
 Despite being a new team, Sonu, who has worked with other newcomers in the past, says that Team Gultoo is among the most organised ones that she has worked with. “I never felt that I was working with newcomers. They were on point and knew exactly what they wanted, from how I should pronounce some of the words, the variations in dialogues and when a certain scene should end. In some of my earlier films, the assistant directors would be unaware of the whole subject; they wouldn’t know the previous or next scene. But the entire crew of Gultoo knew exactly what was going on. I don’t know how well this film will do, but it has given me job satisfaction. It has opened doors for me to work with National Award-winning directors, such as TS Nagabharana and Nikhil Manju. After 10 years, I can confidently say that Gultoo is my best film,” says Sonu, signing off.
 
