KOCHI: To ensure that schools meet the requirement of at least 200 working days from the next  , the   (DPI) and the   (DHSE) are planning to conduct classes on some Saturdays. They are also contemplating shifting of the annual exams from March to first week of April to ensure more instructional days. “The academic calendar for 2018-19 had been set in such a manner that we are able to meet the mandatory 200 working days,” said Mohankumar K V, DPI.

 As per the Right to Education (RTE) Act, schools must put in 200 working days at the primary level and 220 working days at the upper primary level. But in Kerala, almost 79% primary schools and 83% upper primary schools don't meet the requirement. The average number of instruction days in an academic year in the state for the past five years is 196 at the primary level and 194 at the upper primary level, shows data by District Information System for Education (DISE).
 
 This academic year, the average number of working days in schools touched 199 in the 10-month academic session. The education department has decided that the best way to ensure minimum 200 days is to conduct additional classes on Saturdays and schedule events like Kerala school kalolsavam during the holidays. “All teacher training programmes have been shifted to vacations. We have also issued orders not to conduct any meeting of teachers during the instructional hours,” said sources in the education department.
 
 The schools under CBSE and ICSE are worried that they may not be able to finish the syllabus on time for Class X and XII, in the wake of the DPI’s order on Monday against holding classes during  .
 
 “Classes are conducted during the vacations for the student’s benefit,” said Fr George Mathew, secretary, association of ISCE/ISC schools in Kerala.
 
 “If we finish syllabus early, we can conduct model exams and even coach weak students,” said K Unnikrishnan, president, Confederation of Kerala Sahodaya complexes.
 
 If at all a vacation camp is organized, it should last only for a week, said the DPI circular. The order is applicable to all schools in state. This came after the Kerala state commission for protection of child rights on March 14, directed the respective school boards to issue orders stopping summer classes.
 
 Interestingly, the Kerala high court in its order on February 8, 2018, had said that school can decide to conduct classes in the vacation for students of standard IX to XII after convening a meeting of the PTA and on orders of the CBSE regional officer.
 
