No one can escape stress. And when it’s about a turning point in your life, you ought to feel anxious and tensed. I also experienced something similar, or I would say, a lot worse than I had ever imagined. Frequent emotional breakdowns, not wanting to talk to anyone, unable to concentrate on work and regular fights with my fiancé over nitty-gritty issues had started to shatter me emotionally. Soon, I realized that I had to do something about my condition as it would not only ruin my relationship with him but would also make me weaker day by day.

  
 
 
  Initially, I had no clue what was making me so anxious and depressed. Was it the thought of staying with a stranger (as it was an arranged marriage)? Was it about settling in a different country (I had to move to Canada from India) and leaving my own house? Was it about adjusting in someone else’s family or was it the   arrangements that were disturbing me? Your wedding day and courtship period are supposed to be the happiest phase of your life, I had heard it several times, but definitely, it was not working in my favour.
 
  
 
 
  My frequent emotional breakdowns were not only affecting me but were disturbing my mother. Several times she tried to comfort me. Indeed, I felt secured whenever I talked and shared my feelings with her but it used to last for a short time. The moment I was left alone or I stepped out of my house, these feelings started to haunt me all fresh.
 
  
 
 
  As these emotions were overpowering me, I decided to do something about them. I googled about pre-wedding   and to my relief, it does exist. The information helped me a lot and I decided to talk about these feelings with my friends and family. And whenever I felt like crying, I didn’t stop it. On many days, I would cry my heart out and it helped me. Also, thanks to all those who listened to me and comforted me. It really helped me in getting out of my condition and soon, I found myself indulging in wedding preparation.
 
  
 
 
  Someone has rightly said that choosing your life partner is the biggest decision of your life. I feel glad that I made the right choice as he was there to comfort me and lend his ear whenever I needed him. My partner was supportive, especially when I had felt really weak. Though that time was difficult for him as well but he never stepped back when it was about making me comfortable and feel secure. That phase had taught me several things and the bond that we created in our courtship period has made our relationship stronger for the entire lifetime. 
 
 
