KOLKATA: Calcutta High Court, the country’s oldest high court, set up in 1861, shares top spot with Karnataka   when it comes to judge   vis-a-vis its approved strength, amongst all 24 high courts in the country. The Calcutta High Court Bar Association, incidentally, is going on a five-day cease-work from Monday to protest against the “Centre’s apathy” in appointing fresh judges, as TOI had reported on Saturday.

 According to data published by the Union law and justice ministry on February 1, the high courts of Karnataka (61% vacancies) and Manipur (60%) fare worse than that of Kolkata (54%). A little more than two weeks from then, however, the figure has changed for the worse. Three   judges — Justices Mir Dara Sheko, Siddhartha Chattopadhyay and Debi Prosad Dey — have retired, taking the vacancies to 58%. In addition, two judges are always deputed to the Port Blair circuit bench. If this is factored in, the vacancies stand at 61%.
 
 
  
 Three more judges — including Acting Chief Justice Jyotirmay Bhattacharya — are set to retire between September and December.
 
 Karnataka High Court, facing a similar plight, has a smaller approved judge-strength: 62. It has only 24 judges, while Manipur High Court, which has an approved strength of only five judges, now has only two.
 
 The Supreme Court collegium, on December 4, had recommended the elevation of five advocates to judgeship. On January 10, the collegium had also recommended that ACJ Bhattacharya be made Chief Justice. According to high court sources, the apex court collegium will also consider a recommendation by the high court, endorsed by the chief minister and the governor, on further appointment of judges from the bar once its pending recommendations are cleared by the Centre.
 
 The high courts of Calcutta, Madras and Bombay were established by the Indian High Courts Act 1861 and are the oldest of the 24 HCs.
 
 Bombay High Court has 70 judges (according to the same data) against its approved strength of 94;   has 58 judges in an approved strength of 75. Of the other high courts that have an approved strength of more judges than Calcutta HC, Allahabad HC, with an approved strength of 160, has 105 judges and Punjab and Haryana High Court, with an approved strength of 85, has 50 judges.
 
 The last appointment in Calcutta HC was made in September 21, 2017, when six judges joined. The appointment was preceded by a rare judicial order in which the high court had twice lashed out against the Centre over apathy in appointing judges. In one order, the HC had even threatened to act. A PIL was also filed in Supreme Court. The High Court Bar Association had then alerted Governor   and even staged road protests.
 
 
