For K Srinivasalu from   in Andhra Pradesh’s   district, ‘investment’ only meant parking his money in insurance schemes. That was till last year when a friend talked him into considering mutual funds (MFs) for better returns. It’s been six months since the 35-year-old started a systematic investment plan (SIP) in an equity MF.

 
 Tuticorin-based Dr P Poornima, meanwhile, has increased her SIP investments in equity MFs by 40%. “Real estate and gold have turned unstable. Equity MF SIPs are useful in longterm wealth creation,” she said.
 
 As Indian investors seek higher returns than those from bank fixed deposits (FDs), smaller cities are leading the rush towards MF investments. Money invested in MFs (called assets under management, or AUM) now amounts to roughly a fifth of savings in FDs, which is an all-time high. At the same time, growth in bank deposits has never been slower since 1963.
 
 In 2017-18, total deposits with banks increased by a mere 6.7% year-on-year (y-o-y) to Rs 115 lakh crore, while the AUM of MFs surged 22% y-o-y to more than Rs 21 lakh crore, according to data with the   ( ).
 
 While SIP registrations in the top 15 cities — called T15 — increased by 89% last year, the growth rate was even faster in the next 15 cities — called B15 — at 95% with more than 53 lakh new registrations, according to data with CAMS MFDex, which represents 96% of the MF industry.
 
 People in smaller cities are also increasing the size of their SIPs faster than investors in bigger cities. In B15 cities, the average live SIP size grew 6.5% to Rs 2,679 at the end of March, compared with a 3.1% increase to Rs 3,766 in T15 cities.
 
 “Awareness about SIPs has reached even smaller towns,” said Srikanth Meenakshi, co-founder and COO, FundsIndia.com, an investment platform for MFs. Inflows into SIPs stood at around Rs 7,119 crore in March alone — the highest ever for a month. Investors committed Rs 67,190 crore through SIPs in 2017-18 — a 53% y-o-y increase, which is also an all-time high.
 
 Investment advisers count poor returns on FDs, the shadow of non-performing assets (NPAs) on public sector banks, and the popularity of balanced funds with monthly dividends among the reasons for the middle class’ shift to MFs.
 
 State Bank of India (SBI), the country’s largest bank, offers 6.4% interest on a one-year FD, while leading private sector banks offer 6.6-7% interest. After tax, the returns shrink by 5% to 30%, depending on the investor’s income slab. This is less than the one-year returns on liquid and ultra short-term fund schemes and much less than the nearly 12% returns from several diversified fund schemes in the past one year.
 
 “People are not happy with the returns on bank FDs,” said  , founder of MyAssetsConsolidation.com, an investment advisory. “The real returns on bank FDs are almost negligible.” Taking the RBI’s projection for retail inflation into account, the real returns on bank FDs would be a measly 0.75-1%.
 
 Like FDs, gold and real estate have also given abysmal returns in recent years. Suresh Sadagopan, founder of Ladder7 Financial Advisories, said, “People are investing in MFs through SIPs as physical assets such as gold and property have not been doing well for quite some time.”
 
