KOLKATA: A reshuffled team under a new captain, lack of big names in the home team and the city’s fanatic love for India captain   drilled a rift into the fan base at   as Kolkata Knight Riders took on   in their first match of the season on Sunday evening. But the fans’ faith in the new team was consolidated as team Kolkata stole the show with both bat and ball, winning the game and restoring the fan base the team has created over the last decade. 

 The game-changers for the home team were Sunil Narine and Nitish Rana. With red-and-gold flags, balloon posts, bandanas, face paint and air trumpets, team Bangalore fans were a majority at Eden, with some who had arrived in the city just for the game. Every six   hit into the stands and every sharp single Virat Kohli took was applauded just as if it was the Chinnaswami stadium in Bangalore. When the DRS verdict went in favour of the away team in the 12th over, Eden erupted in joy. “I travel everywhere the Bangalore team goes. It has announced that every fan in the stadium is the 12th man. In Kolkata, I stand the best chance,” said Dr Sugumar Devraj, a senior official of a logistical firm in Bangalore, who came dressed as the Maharaja of Mysuru. “I have always supported the Kolkata team, but without Gambhir, I was not sure of it. There is not a single big name in the team. Virat Kohli and AB De Villiers are my all-time favourites. Hence, I chose Bangalore over Kolkata,” said Manmohan Singh, an architect. 
 
 However, the home team turned the match around just in time, and so did its supporters. “I am rooting for my city. For me, it doesn’t matter if Gambhir is the captain or Dinesh Karthik. In fact, I like Karthik a lot,” said Class XII student Abhishek Raj. Fans had started arriving at Eden Gardens from as early 5pm for the 8pm match. Cops were posted outside the stadium from afternoon with barricades and ropes in place to ensure the crowd didn’t spill over on the carriageway. Inside the stadium, the DJ kept the mood soaring and apprehension of a shower — that had been forecast for Sunday — dwindled to nothing. 
 
 The sight of   with daughter Suhana, along with actor  , sent the crowd into a selfie-frenzy. “I love the team for Shah Rukh Khan. As long as he is the team owner, I don’t mind about others,” said Sonia Sengupta, a homemaker. Anita Sharma and her niece Khushi Ishika personified Eden’s split loyalty on Sunday. Khushi was in a Kolkata jersey, cheering for Chris Lynn and Sunil Narine, but Anita rooted for Virat Kohli. 
 
 The immediate beneficiaries of the split support, however, were those selling merchandise outside the stadium. “I have sold an equal number of flags of both teams. I wish we get such fans every day,” said Md Arshad counting his sales figures at 8.30pm near Maidan.
