After several cuts, 
  has finally been cleared for telecast with a U/A certification. The film has been cleared by the   (Film Certification Appellate Tribunal) with U/A after the producers of the Saif Ali Khan-starrer approached them for the second time in March, volunteering to mute all expletives along with the suggested cuts. Now, certain words have been muted and a few scenes have also been cut off or reduced.
 
 
 
 In February, the CBFC ( ) refused to grant U/A for satellite viewing and reasoned that the film is not suitable for U/A because there is an abundant display of effect of drugs without any clear message at the end of the movie. The CBFC said that the film is loaded with double meaning dialogues, obscene scenes and vulgar visuals and scenes offending sensibilities. And there is frequent use of cuss words in the film.
 After the CBFC rejected the appeal for U/A, the makers applied to the FCAT. The FCAT, in its order, made it clear that the grounds for giving A and U/A certification are different and that they need to proceed with caution to ensure that sensibilities of children and adolescents are not affected. Last year, for its theatrical release, the FCAT gave the movie a U/A certificate with just one cut after the CBFC had reportedly suggested 73 cuts.
 
  
  
 
 
 After the first appeal, all the suggested cuts were not incorporated and suggested dialogues were not muted, so the FCAT asked the makers to file a revised script. When the makers filed the revised script on March 21, apart from the suggested cuts, they also said that they will be voluntarily deleting all the expletives.
 While issuing the U/A certificate, in its order, the FCAT said, “We are conscious of the theme of this film and the story as depicted is actually for an adult audience and drastic cuts can affect the theme and story and impact of the dialogues. However, this is a call which the Appellant has taken, while seeking ‘U/A’. The film will now telecast with a reduced kissing scene and muted dialogues.”
 
 
  
 
