PATNA: With the winter becoming harsher each passing day, people are experiencing health issues in the city. At least 14 persons have died in two city hospitals in the last 20 days due to cold-related ailments. Almost all hospitals are packed to capacity following sudden rise in   inflow.

 Dr Manish Mandal, medical superintendent of   (IGIMS), which has witnessed a jump in number of patients due to prevailing cold conditions, said four people have died in the hospital in the last 20 days due to extreme cold. “Extreme winter increases the risk of heart attacks, brain stroke and paralysis among the people suffering from cardiac diseases and hypertension,” said IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal.
 
 The central emergency section of Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) has registered 10 deaths in 12 days. “These patients died due to cerebrovascular accidents (CVAs), myocardial infarction (MI) and brain haemorrhage. At least 110 patients have been admitted in the medicine department in the last 10 days,” said   central emergency incharge Dr Abhijit Singh.
 
 “Hypertension in winter months often leads to brain stroke, paralysis and heart attack. Hypertensive and diabetic patients should visit their doctors to get their blood pressure checked. Cases of pneumonia, bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease also rise in winters. The IGIMS medicine   has registered nearly 50% to 70% increase in number of such patients,” said additional professor of medicine at IGIMS Dr Sudhir Kumar. 
 
 Cases of winter diarrhoea are also on the rise. “One should drink enough water to avoid dehydration. Dehydration affects the immune system, making people more susceptible to colds, flu and other illness. Heart attacks and strokes are more likely in a dehydrated state,” Dr Kumar added.
 
 Hypothermia is noticed in kids and people above 60 years of age. “Hypothermia is a potentially dangerous drop in body temperature which is caused by prolonged exposure to cold temperatures. People should cover themselves properly and keep warm. Intake of warm liquids is also advised,” Dr Kumar added.
 
 
