PATNA: The   ( ) will announce the results of classes X and   on June 20 and June 7 respectively.

 
 An official notification in this regard was issued by the BSEB on Saturday. BSEB chairman Anand Kishor said the preparations of   were in the final stage. Examinees can check their results on the BSEB’s official website www.biharboard.ac.in. 
 
 The BSEB chairman had earlier claimed that the Class X and XII results would be announced earlier than those in 2017. Last year, the   results were announced on May 30 and the Class X results on June 22. Sources said the results this year were delayed due to certain unavoidable reasons.
 
 The sources said at least 17.7 lakh students wrote the Class X examinations held between February 21 and 28 this year. The number of students who wrote the Class XII examinations this year from February 6 to 16 was 12.08 lakh. Practical examinations were held in January.
 
 According to the sources, at least 448 Class X examinees were barred from writing the examinations after they were caught indulging in malpractices, while 93 dummy examinees were caught writing papers for others. Among Class XII examinees, 985 were barred from writing the examinations after they were found using unfair means, while 25 imposters were nabbed.
 
 One Class XII topper each from science, commerce and arts streams and one Class X topper will be given a cash prize of Rs 1 lakh along with a laptop and a kindle e-reader. A cash prize of Rs 75,000 each will be given to the Class XII’s second topper of every stream and Class X’s second topper. Such third toppers will get Rs 50,000 each.
 
 While the fourth and fifth rank holders of each stream of Class XII will get Rs 15,000 and a laptop each, a cash prize of Rs 10,000 will be given to the examinees holding fourth to tenth ranks in the Class X examinations.
 
 The top ten scorers of Class X and top five scorers each of the three streams of Class XII examinations will also get the Deshratn Dr Rajendra Prasad Medha Chhatravriti. Under this scholarship scheme of the BSEB, the Class X passouts will get Rs 1,200/month for two years, while the Class XII passouts will get Rs 1,500/month for graduation or integrated course.
 
 
