NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party on Wednesday claimed that chief secretary   had no evidence to back his claim that he was assaulted by party MLAs at chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence. The party strongly defended Amanatullah Khan and Prakash Jarwal, claiming they were targeted because one of them was a Dalit and another a Muslim.

 AAP alleged that the FIR filed by Prakash was “planned under a conspiracy”, which was an extension of a sustained “vendetta politics” by BJP to topple its government. “The home minister didn’t seek a report from the CM on the attack on a minister at the secretariat. But he immediately sought a report on the alleged attack on the CS from the LG,” AAP’s Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh said.
 
 Singh claimed that the “conspiracy was planned to divert attention from the unravelling banking frauds involving thousands of crores of rupees”. The party questioned the delay in filing a police complaint by Prakash. “Even if we believe what the CS is saying is true, a question arises on the delay. Why didn’t he go to the police immediately after the alleged assault? He went to the police in the morning after completely planning the story. Even a common man will go to the police immediately after such an incident. We have video footage of CS walking out of the CM’s residence and his body language shows no panic,” Singh claimed. 
 
 AAP leader Ashutosh said: “The CS has made allegations without proof. A group of people attacked environment minister Imran Hussain and AAP functionary Ashish Khetan in the Delhi secretariat on Tuesday afternoon. An FIR has been lodged in the matter. The minister has video evidence of the attack. The police ignored the evidence and did nothing about it, but they went ahead and arrested two MLAs without proof.” 
 
 He alleged that both MLAs were arrested at the behest of BJP. “One of the arrested MLAs is a Dalit while the other is Amanatullah Khan (sic),” Ashutosh said, even as he denied that AAP was playing the caste card. Ashutosh added that both a CS and a peon were equal before the law.
 
 The party claimed that police had taken no action on the complaints of Prakash Jarwal and Ajay Dutt, both of whom were allegedly subjected to casteist abuse. On the need to hold a meeting with the CS at midnight, Sanjay Singh said the government was concerned about around 2.5 lakh people being deprived of ration. “We wanted to ensure that Delhi didn’t see a repeat of an incident in Jharkhand where an 11-year-old girl died of hunger.” He said if a similar incident took place in Delhi, people would ask questions of the CM and not the LG or the chief secretary.
 
 
