KOLKATA : Four policemen in a minister’s pilot car were injured on Sunday morning, when an auto suddenly came in the way of the convoy on VIP Road, forcing it to slam on the brake. The auto driver, ferrying six passengers in his vehicle, fled the spot before he could be arrested.

  food minister Jyotipriyo Mullick’s convoy was headed towards Ultadanga from the airport side; he was going to his residence at   after he attending a meeting at   in Barasat. As Mullick’s car and the pilot vehicle crossed   on VIP Road, the two vehicles swerved took the left lane as they intended to take the Ultadanga flyover to Salt Lake.
 
 
  
 “The pilot vehicle was in front of us. As we were getting near the flyover towards Salt Lake, it suddenly had to swerve right to save an auto that came in the way and the driver had to slam on the brake. The impact was such that the vehicle could not halt at the spot. Instead, it skidded and finally stopped after hitting a post on the median. The police personnel inside the vehicle were injured,” said  .
 
 Mullick, whose car was following the convoy, also came to a screeching halt. The minister immediately stepped out to check what had happened. “I could see six passengers inside the auto and all of them were kids. Before we could react, the auto driver sped away towards the Dakshindari intersection to enter the Ultadanga-airport flank,” Mullick said. Four of the cops who received injuries, were taken to hospital and discharged after treatment.
 
 According to sources, the auto had picked up passengers near Dakshindari and was plying the service road. Suddenly, it decided to change the lane near a cut at Dakshindari and entered VIP Road. On seeing the auto cutting across the lane, the pilot vehicle driver applied brake. “The auto driver seemed to have flouted traffic law. Had the driver of the pilot vehicle failed to stop in time, it could have led to a big tragedy. I will have a word with the transport minister to find a way to control these rogue drivers,” Mullick said.
 
