INDORE:   centre, funded by department of atomic energy, will start at   and Apollo Hospital Chennai in the next two months. With this, India will join the list of a few nations that have technology to cure cancer using this therapy, principal scientific advisor to Government of India Dr R Chidambaram said on Tuesday. 

 “It will be a multi-ion therapy, which was in the pipeline for the past four years. India has been collaborating with foreign nations to make it possible for the cancer patients here,” Chidambaram said, addressing the eighth Indian Particle Accelerator Conference being held at RRCAT Indore. 
 
 Highlighting the need to bridge the gap between science and society, he urged the young and upcoming physicists to explore the problems faced by people and use their technical precision to find a solution to them. Chidambaram during his address also focused on the need to keep up the momentum of knowledge by spreading and forwarding it to the next generation. 
 
 “The knowledge that scientists and experts have today must be forwarded to those who can make good use of it tomorrow and keep it alive and well. This knowledge must not die with experts,” he added. 
 
 Regarding particle accelerators and their applications, he urged the scientists in India to develop accelerator driven technologies in the fields of archaeology, paintings and art, treating municipal waste and making environment cleaner. 
 
 He gave examples of use of particle accelerators in detecting real and false copies of ancient paintings in Louvre museum in Paris and its use in other nations for detecting the age of archaeological heritage sites. 
 
 An industrial exhibition, of latest products involving particle accelerator technology, was also inaugurated as a part of the conference, where hundreds of scientists have participated. 400 poster presentations of new developments in particle accelerator technology and 62 guests will deliver special talks on the subject in the next three days.
 
 
