MUMBAI: The   of passengers at railway termini for boarding summer special trains has the security agencies worried about a stampede-like situation. To tackle any such eventuality, they have started deploying forces in large numbers. 

 
  
  
 
 
 The number of passengers at railway stations swells 15-20% for summer specials as against a regular long-distance train. This surge is largely a result of passengers thronging unreserved coaches.   personnel have been instructing passengers boarding unreserved coaches to queue up on platforms and are monitoring their movements to avoid a chaos. 
 
 On an average, around 1,800 passengers board a regular train, but for a summer special—operating from April to June—the count goes up to 2,100. And, if the railways decides to further augment these special trains with extra coaches, the number of passengers on platforms swells by another 200. “Lokmanya Tilak Terminus,   and   witness maximum crowds for summer specials. Everyone wants to reach their native place as soon as possible,” said an official. 
 
 On April 20, when the Jansadharan Express that was delayed by two days arrived at CSMT, there was a pandemonium as hundreds of passengers thronged the train. “There were no security personnel at 12.30am when the train finally arrived. The passengers had formed queues on platform no. 15 but the train arrive on platform no. 14. There was confusion as passengers jumped queues and hopped from one platform to another. My family and I were right at the beginning of a queue as we had reached the station on April 17. But by the time we managed to get in, all seats were occupied,” said  , a Wadala-based driver who was headed to   in UP. 
 
 “In the chaos, I could not see my three kids. Hassled, I started looking for them. By the time I found them and got back into the coach, it was time for the train to depart and I couldn’t get off to collect our bags. It was a nightmare,” added Shaikh.
 
 Passengers said at stations like Kalyan, there were too many structures on platforms that caused inconvenience. “Further, luggage is piled up on platforms and navigating through it is tough,” said a passenger. 
 
 Also in large numbers are chain-pulling instances on summer specials. “The reasons could be boarding a train or someone missing the train. We had an instance of a commuter suffering a heart attack in a summer special and co-passengers pulled the alarm chain. An offence isn’t recorded when the alarm chain is pulled for a genuine reason,” a Western Railway official said. 
 
 
