MUMBAI: With women’s cricket in the country fast gaining popularity after India’s superb performance in last year’s World Cup, the calls for a women’s Indian Premier League (IPL) have only gotten louder. India skipper   - who’s the all-time highest run-getter in One-Day Internationals (6295 runs) - though, thinks otherwise.

 
 
 
 Speaking at a press conference in the build-up to the T20I Tri-Series against Australia and England starting here on Thursday, Raj said it was vital for the domestic circuit to be strong enough before having an IPL-type league.
 
 “It’s important to have a pool of players who will be qualified to play an IPL-type of league,” the 35-year-old said on Tuesday. “We have just started with India A tours and formation of an A team since coming back from the World Cup. It will take a couple of years to get our second string side in place.
 
 
 
 “Once we have those many players then I think it will be wise enough to have a women’s IPL. There is a stark difference between an international player and domestic player and so an IPL may go against promoting women’s cricket.”
 
 After winning the T20I series against South Africa 3-1 in February-March this year, a lot was expected from the team. But they were handed a stunning 0-3 thrashing at the hands of Australia in their ODI Series that concluded in Vadodara on Sunday. Raj however, didn’t want to dwell too much on the negatives. She preferred to praise her opponents instead. 
 
 “They (Australia) were a better team than the one we played in the World Cup. They were better in all three departments of the game. We were not able to build middle-order partnerships. The bowlers too were not as disciplined as they were in South Africa. But this was a young squad, so we will improve.”
 
 The upcoming T20I series will also be the first time 16-year-old   will be playing at ‘home’. The Bandra girl was impressive against Australia in the ODI series and Raj said that Rodrigues was definitely a player to watch out for.
 
 “It’s always good to (make) it to the Indian squad at a young age, because you have those years backing you. She has done well in the domestic season, and it was the right time to give her that opportunity. She is used to playing in Mumbai and is definitely one of the players for the future,” Raj opined.
 
 
 
 In order to promote women’s cricket, the   has decided not to have an entry fee for the T20I series which begins at Cricket Club of India (CCI) on Thursday.
 
