Mumbai: Do something about the rapidly declining umpiring standards, revert to playing eight games at the league stage in the  , avoid 9 am starts in the Vijay Hazare Trophy – these were some of the suggestions put forth at the Board of Control for Cricket in India’s ( ) annual domestic captains and coaches conclave here on Monday.

 
 
 “The umpiring standards in domestic cricket have been dropping steadily in the past decade, but if we don’t support our umpires, who will? They’re human, after all,” admitted an official.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 “I’ve suggested to bring about improvement in the quality of video replays for run out/stumping referrals… even that is poor,” revealed a captain.
 
 Almost everyone at the conclave wanted the number of Ranji matches to be increased at the league stage from six to eight games per team, as was the case earlier. “This will allow a team/player to stage a comeback if hit by poor form. Six games is too less,” felt a captain.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 There was also a suggestion to reduce the number of pools from four to three to enable more games. Obviously, more matches will mean more money for the players. The BCCI recently increased the per day match fee of a domestic player from Rs10,000 to Rs35,000, and it was clarified at the conclave that this doesn’t include the Gross Revenue Share (GRS), which is computed after factoring in income from the media rights that the BCCI earns through India’s home season.
 
 It was also suggested that 9 am games, which give the team bowling first an unfair advantage, should be done away with the Vijay Hazare Trophy (50-over competition), which witnessed plenty of such instances. “It’s better if the matches begin at 11 am, or are played under lights,” felt a coach. “This season saw teams playing as many as six games in eight days in the Vijay Hazare Trophy. This is tough on the body, so we’ve requested for adequate rest between games,” he added.
 
 The players had complained about the quality of SG balls in domestic limited overs cricket, but the board is set to stick to the brand, and is keen to try it in international cricket at home, where the Kookaburra is used currently. “The SG ball is currently a work-in-progress. However, we’re keen to try it at the international level. It’s cheaper than the Kookaburra and made by an Indian company,” said a source.
 
 The idea of employing neutral curators who belong to the same zone, mooted by BCCI acting president CK Khanna last year to prevent doctoring of wickets by home curators, received a thumbs-up from everyone in the conclave.
 
 BCCI CEO Rahul Johri, it’s learnt, promised at the conclave that domestic cricket will be covered widely this time, which will be a shot in the arm for the youngsters.” The meeting was also attended by the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) member and former India women’s skipper, Diana Edulji, and BCCI acting secretary Amitabh Choudhary.
 
 There was a suggestion that domestic cricketers should be given contracts by their state associations.
 
 Meanwhile, the tours and fixtures committee meeting has been postponed from Tuesday to Saturday. The IPL GC meeting is scheduled for Friday.
 
 
