For those with limited savings, cobbling together a meaningful amount for investments can be arduous. But it doesn’t have to be. Even on a shoestring  , you can invest and build a decent sized corpus. Here is how: It is critical that you prioritise goals and keep a tight leash on unnecessary expenses. “It might be essential to keep certain goals flexible and push back discretionary expenditure,” says  , Founder, Ladder 7 Financial Services. For instance, given that buying a house at an early age may leave many young earners with no savings for other critical goals, staying on rent for a few years can be wiser.

 Putting your money to work at the earliest is key to reaching your goals, say experts. The quantum of money is a key consideration, but is secondary to the act of investing. Suppose you are looking to build a corpus over a 15 year period for your child’s education, but have an investible surplus of just Rs 5,000. At today’s cost, if a study course costs Rs 14 lakh, it will cost Rs 33.55 lakh 15 years later. Assuming 12% rate of return, you need to start putting away Rs 7,500 per month right away to build the desired corpus. The large initial outflow may seem to make the goal difficult to reach. Some may even choose to put off investing altogether, given they don’t have the needed surplus money. Are you inclined to do the same? You must not, for there’s a way out. You don’t need not start investing Rs 7,500 today. Even if you start with a much lower sum now, you will be in a position to meet your target. The key is to hike your investment outflows later. As and when your financial situation improves, you can direct more money towards investments. 
  
 
 
 
 The uptick in investments need not be linear. Since the growth in income may vary from year to year, investors may accordingly increase or maintain their commitment at different intervals of time. The critical thing is to keep the money invested and hike the investments as and when savings permit. Even if the corpus falls short when your goal is due, you will still be better off compared to putting off investing altogether or delaying it till you have ‘enough’ to invest. To illustrate, if you delay investing by five years to build the desired corpus of Rs 33.55 lakh, owing to shortage of investible surplus, you will have to invest as much as Rs 15,933 a month five years later. While investing towards any goal, says Sadagopan, don’t keep a rigid sum in mind. This can often prevent one from building a healthy corpus. 
  
 
 
 
 Low earners should not invest purely for tax saving, say experts. “Investing solely with the purpose of saving on tax can prevent one from picking the right investments,” says Tanwir Alam, Founder and MD, Fincart. For instance, while the tax-saving equity   are the best option for building long term wealth, not many people remain invested for the long term, exiting after the mandatory three year lock-in period of tax-saving funds. This interrupts the compounding potential of the investment which works favourably only after a longer period of time.
 
 Small investors should invest via systematic investment plans (SIP) of mutual funds, which allow one to park as little as Rs500-Rs1,000 a month and enjoy a high degree of liquidity. One may use the step-up   feature that allows investors to raise the investment amount by fixed sum over the years. Opting for the direct plan of mutual funds can provide more bang for the buck, but you have to pickg the funds carefully. Since the expense ratio for these plans is much lower than regular plans, the returns are also higher and help you build a bigger corpus, over longer periods of time.
 
  
  
 
