TRICHY: The Mannarpuram roundabout, considered the centre point of the state and situated on the Chennai-Madurai National Highway 45B, is in a state of total neglect. The roundabout and traffic islands spread over an acre could have been well-utilised to beautify the city and help evoke a positive perception about it among investors. However, the infrastructure has been languishing without proper care. 

 Though touted as the largest of all traffic regulatory mechanisms in the district, commuters have been complaining about its poor maintenance including the irregular functioning of lamps on highways.   has two major gateways, TVS tollgate and Mannarpuram roundabout, for accessing the city while commuting via Chennai-Madurai NH 45B besides through Melachinthamani and Thiruvanaikaval. 
 
 Though next to TVS tollgate in terms of the volume of vehicles handled, the roundabout has been serving as a gateway for both visitors and the residents to reach various parts of the city, particularly suburbs such as KK Nagar and Khajamalai. It witnesses thousands of vehicles flowing from multiple highways like Chennai-Trichy, Trichy-Madurai and Pudukkottai-Dindigul as well as Thanjavur-Dindigul stretches towards the city. Despite being such a significant spot, the acre-large roundabout had been in bad shape for years now. Though the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI)   (PIU) could have developed the facility under its greening initiative, it is learnt that NHAI is awaiting sponsors to maintain the roundabout. 
 
 Official sources with NHAI Trichy PIU said that the city police had approached the authority for taking up the beautification drive. However, the police department is yet to furnish details for entering into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to maintain and beautify Mannarpuram roundabout. “Once we receive the requested information from city police such as investment details and entity willing to maintain the roundabout, we will forward the same to our regional office in Madurai for getting approval,” said an official source with NHAI.
 
 “Appearance of the city matters a lot in attracting investments. Perhaps NHAI itself could have maintained the roundabout if corporate firms or private agencies were hesitant. The city’s beautification needs a proper roadmap involving various stakeholders,” said, H Ubaidullah, independent aviation analyst. 
 
 Until the Chennai, Madurai and bus stand arms of the under-construction   are completed and thrown open for traffic, chances are high for a surge in traffic through Mannarpuram roundabout, thus justifying the call to beautify the facility. “Besides the poor appearance, lights established on the stretch including flyover often develop snag and put the safety of commuters at risk,” S A Sayeed, president, Express Courier Operators Association, said.
 
 
