New Delhi: After the recent leak, the   on Monday asked the   board to clarify in 10 days its plans on re-test of Class X   paper.

 Stating that CBSE can’t keep students on “tenterhooks”, a bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar highlighted that any delay by CBSE in clarifying its position on re-test would not only waste an academic year of the students, but would be like ‘a sword hanging over their heads.’
 
 The court’s directive came after the board said that it was still verifying the extent of the leak before announcing the date for the fresh test.
 
 Issuing notice to CBSE and the Centre seeking their stand on a plea for a court-monitored probe into the recent leaks of Classed X and XII maths and   papers, the bench said CBSE should take a decision and inform the court by April 16.
 
 It stressed that even   is crucial for students as they decide their stream of studies on the basis of the result. 
 
 During a brief hearing, the bench wondered why CBSE wanted to wait till July to re-conduct the test. HC’s remark came after the education regulator said no decision has been taken regarding the Class X maths   as it was ascertaining if the leak was pan-India or confined to Delhi and Haryana alone.
 
 As regards to PIL filed by NGO Social Jurist about   economics paper, CBSE has already decided to conduct a re-test, the board said. The petitioner has sought that the Class X maths exam be held in April, instead of July as proposed by the authorities.
 
 The petition by advocate Ashok Agarwal has also prayed for a direction to CBSE to award liberal marks in both maths and economics re-examinations.
 
 The NGO highlighted that over 28 lakh students appeared for the Classes X and XII exams this year, and due to the paper leak, there was widespread anger as the students feel cheated. “The students are agitated, holding demonstrations, and dharnas. The press conferences by authorities in the past five days have been creating confusion, distrust, anger and mental agony among students and parents,” it added.
 
 
