NAGPUR: Showers and hailstorms lashed the region on Sunday, leading to a dip in the city’s maximum temperature by two degree Celsius compared to Saturday. Thunderstorms with hail are expected for the next two days at isolated places of the region.

 According to the officials of regional met department, the total rain received in Nagpur was 7.2 millimetres. The maximum temperature was recorded at 26 degree Celsius, which was seven degrees below normal. On Sunday, Brahmapuri recorded the highest maximum temperature of 32.5 degree Celsius. 
 
 Stating that the unexpected rainfall was caused due to confluence of winds, AD Tathe, director of Regional Meteorological Centre, Nagpur, informed that some parts of the region witnessed hailstorms. “In Nagpur, hailstorms were reported in Northern and Western parts,” he added.
 
 The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) mid-day update on Sunday said a cyclonic circulation lies over south Maharashtra and neighbouring west Rajasthan and extends up to 0.9km above mean sea level.
 
 As per the weather forecast, no significant changes are expected in the temperature for the next two days. However, the maximum temperature in Vidarbha,   and   is expected to drop by two-to-three degree Celsius. According to weathermen, rainfall during winters doesn’t bring the temperature down on a large scale.
 
 The unexpected rains and hailstorm reportedly affected winter harvest at many places in the region, with standing crop of cotton, wheat, grapes and chickpea in Jalna, Beed, Buldhana, Washim, Amravati and Akola districts of Vidarbha and Marathwada region getting destroyed due to heavy rains. Sources claimed that two lives were lost in Amravati and   districts due to lightning.
 
 As per the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), dry weather conditions are likely to prevail in the region.
 
 Apart from Vidarbha, rains and hailstorms are expected to occur in neighbouring states, including Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. Weather forecast shows that almost all districts including Akola, Amravati, Gondia, Chandrapur, Buldhana, Wardha and Yavatmal are expected to receive thunderstorms with hail till February 14, and then witness partly cloudy sky for the remaining week.
 
 This is not the first time that the region saw rainfall during winters. Last January too Nagpur and Gondia had witnessed showers.
 
 
