SHIMLA:   health minister Brahm Mohindra on Monday refused to sign the memorandum of understanding (MoU) for Ayushman Bharat, a mega scheme to provide free health treatment up to Rs 5 lakh to people living below poverty line, launched under Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM) on the ground that the Punjab government was already running similar schemes. 

 The   were to be signed by states like Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh. Mohindra also objected to the funding pattern of 60:40 under the scheme and said that the Punjab government was not satisfied with this. He left the venue after Union health minister J P Nadda concluded his address and apprising him of his stand.
 
 After Mohindra's objection, the Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Union Territory of Chandigarh signed MoUs with the the National Health Mission. 
 
 Nadda tried to stop Mohindra from leaving the venue and also requested him to leave after lunch but the latter cited his busy schedule. Nadda then invited Mohindra over to Delhi to discuss the matter.
 
 Mohindra said the schemes which were to be run under Ayushman Bharat were already being run by chief minister Amarinder Singh-led government in Punjab. He also listed schemes already benefitting the people in Punjab.
 
 He said the Punjab government had certain objections regarding the Ayushman Bharat scheme and until those were addressed it would not be right to sign the MoU.
 
 Nadda said for the successful implementation of the scheme, issues of states would be heard and addressed. He said the scheme could be amended and new subjects could be added to it. He said a separate MoU would be signed with each state and claimed that this scheme would change the direction of health care in the country. He said the Government of India was doing its home work on the scheme and work was on to set up a cashless and paperless system before implementing the scheme.
 
 Addressing Ayushman Bharat Northern Region's first workshop on Pradhan Mantri Rashtriya Swasthya Suraksha Mission (PMRSSM), Himachal CM   said that 'Ayushman Bharat' was an innovative scheme launched by the Union government. He said that it was a big health insurance scheme that had the potential to bring revolution in the health sector in the country. 
 
 He said five such workshops would be held to launch this ambitious scheme that would benefit over 10 crore families. 
 
 
