PANAJI: The opposition,  , on Thursday demanded that both Goa   and its vice chancellor Varun Sahni must explain to the people of the state the wasteful expenditure by a cash-starved university for renting out an accommodation for Sahni despite having an official bungalow.

 “The Times of India carried an exhaustive story on this issue. There must be some hidden reason why he (Sahni) is staying there. The university should explain to the people, because this is people’s money being used here,” former Rajya Sabha MP and outgoing Congress state unit president Shantaram Naik said.
 
 “On one side, the university officials are struggling to get additional finance from the Goa government. While on the other side, the   is squandering university money. What is the logic behind this?” Naik asked.
 
 In its Sunday edition, TOI had front-paged how Goa University, despite having an official bungalow for its vice chancellor, was paying Rs 9 lakh per year for Sahni’s ostentatious sea-facing apartment.
 
 Despite repeated emails, Sahni had refused to answer questions that TOI put to him. 
 
 In response to RTI queries by TOI, the university had said they decided to rent a fully-furnished, four-bedroom apartment at Dona Paula overlooking the sea for Rs 9 lakh per annum for Sahni. The RTI documents also showed that the university had spent over Rs 22 lakh to spruce up the existing sea-facing VC’s bungalow over the years.
 
 “Sahni must explain why he opted for rented premises and he should also explain why did the university pay a brokerage fee of Rs 75,000 to find a rented accommodation for him,” Naik said.
 
 When Sahni moved into his sea-facing rented apartment paid for by Goa University, he became the first VC in the university’s history—since early nineties when the university constructed a bungalow for its vice chancellor—to have taken a house on rent despite having an official residence at his disposal.
 
 All former VCs have stayed at the fully-furnished official residence, barring Satish Shetye, who opted to stay in his own home that was near the university campus. 
 
 The Goa University’s reason for shifting Sahni to a rented flat was that the official residence needed major renovation. But from June 2013 to December 2017, renowned visitors to the Goa University, that included environmentalist Madhav Gadgil and musician Santiago Lusardi Girelli, were made to stay at the VC’s official residence.
 
 
