LUDHIANA: Imagine the situation of a senior citizen, who is awaiting the arrival of the train, and has no place to sit. In fact, he must wait in scorching heat as there are hardly any proper sheds on this side of the station.

 The passengers are peeved with the lack of basic facilities on the   side of Ludhiana  . The daily commuters, who use of this portion of the station for entry or exit purposes are bereft of basic amenities such as lack of proper seating arrangements, non-availability of drinking water, no proper sheds or washrooms. The passengers are facing a lot of inconveniences while they pass through this side of the city railway station.
 
 With the non-availability of proper seating arrangements, senior citizens often make use of the government railway police check post. Moreover, the railway authorities have not even covered this portion of the station with sheds. This irks the commuters the most especially during the summer season.
 
 Sources in the railway department said, “Despite knowing that the passengers frequently use the Civil Lines portion of the Ludhiana railway station for entry or exit purposes, the concerned department officials failed to provide the required infrastructure. This has irked the passengers a lot especially during the summer season when they find it extremely difficult to stand in the open without shed or drinking water facility.”
 
 The sources also mentioned that the government railway check post is also in bad shape. Covered with metal sheets, the place also lacks proper sitting arrangement for the police officials.
 
 During a visit by TOI team, the correspondent saw how the passengers are compelled to sit on the staircase of various platforms of city railway station.
 
 The passengers complained that even after a decade, the railway authorities have failed to provide “even the basic infrastructure, which is necessary on this side of the station,” thus augmenting the trouble of the commuters on a daily basis.
 
  director, Abhinav Singla, said, “The railway authorities are taking the help of the local administration to develop that portion of the station. We are in search of some non-government organisations which can develop this portion of the station with the railway assistance. We are putting every effort to develop the basic infrastructure there for the betterment of the passengers.”
 
 He also added the railway authorities will soon provide better infrastructure to the government railway police check-post and ensure proper safety measures are in place.
 
 Eyes on you
 
 On Friday, the commercial department officials have installed three CCTV cameras inside the general ticket counters premises to keep a tab on the working of the officials and cash box. Earlier, this portion was not covered by CCTV cameras. “It will be helpful for the senior officials to keep an eye on the working hours of the officials, who leave their seats between duty hours. This adds to the problems of the commuters,” said Ajay Kumar, commercial inspector at Ludhiana railway station. 
 
 
