CHANDIGARH: With the start of the new year, the city-based government schools are all set to get 10 new science and knowledge parks.   has already given Rs 1 lakh to the ten schools and the work in this regard has already begun. The new   will be available from the the month of June. Each school will be given a total grant of Rs 3 lakh for development of the same. The science park will include concepts from different subjects from Classes 6 till 8.

 10 schools that will get a science park in 2018 are   in sectors 26, 22, 33, 40B and Khuda Alisher, Government Model High School, Sector 38D, Government High School in Maloya Colony and Sector 54, Government   in Sector 42 and Pocket Number 1, Manimajra.
 
 Through these parks, education department aims to spread awareness of science and general knowledge and create environment for practical experience of theoretical concepts. Concepts of science including law of conservation of energy, invisible light, periodic table, mechanical waves, pinhole waves, kaleidoscope, periscope, rain gauge, anemometer to measure wind speed, models on multiple reflections, models based on friction,   disc, DNA double Helix and parabolic dishes will be demonstrated.
 
  “The science and knowledge parks further aim to inculcate inquisitiveness, sense of inquiry, scientific attitude and thinking by encouraging curiosity and questioning processes and creativity among students. It offers interactive and activity based learning environment and evolve a two way channel of learning by exhibits and demonstrations and other training activities,” shared an official from the education department.
 
 “It aims to collect and disseminate information relating to mutual interaction of science, technology and society by putting waste material to use and also to promote and support innovative and experimental activities to make students learn seemingly complex scientific principles in a participative manner that leads to questioning and self-discovery,” official stated.
 
 In the year 2016, the education department for the first time had come up with seven parks after approval of budget from ministry of human resource and development and now 10 more are being developed.
 
 The science and knowledge park in Government High School in Sector 53, which was developed by the then principal was motivation for making more professional parks in schools. The understanding of concepts was found to be better in students of this school,   officials from education department said.
 
 However, it was built on a very small scale. The science park in Sector 53 GHS was initiated by then principal of the school Raj Bala and was made by teachers, who pooled in their money. Thereafter, a knowledge park was made by the school itself in Sector 37D. In 2017, with the help of other teachers of the school and science and technology department, Chandigarh, Raj Bala constructed a big science park with various gadgets in government Girls Model Senior Secondary School in Sector 18.
 
 
