Mangaluru: While the Real Estate Regulartory Authority (RERA) list has most projects that haven’t registered under the Real Estate Regulation and Development (RERA), Karnataka, CREDAI functionaries and advocates have cried foul over the “inappropriate” manner in which the projects have been listed.

 RERA-Karnataka put out the list of featuring “projects under investigation” in the public domain on January 5.
 
 Critics said RERA authorities haven’t done their homework and the list had names of even those projects that had occupancy certificate and all necessary documents.
 
 Only those projects which have been completed, for which occupancy certificate or completion certificate is issued before the implementation of RERA need not register with RERA. However, the names of buildings that were completed years ago too figure in the list, complain  . Also, lack of clarity on the basis of which the projects are listed as ‘under investigation’ too seems to have irked developers.
 
 “RERA has sent notices to several developers, some of whose projects were completed much earlier . We don’t know on what basis the list was collated. We’ll get a better idea in the next few days as RERA officials are working with the developer community to understand it. Customers have been seeking explanation from the developers listed. We hope RERA authorities will make the list more accurately for the benefit of all stakeholders,” Adarsh Narahari, secretary, CREDAI Bengaluru.
 
 D B Mehta, president, CREDAI Mangaluru, said most projects listed were clean and RERA authorities have included their names in the list. “Most projects in the list were completed long ago and there is nothing wrong with them. The RERA authorities have looked for RERA numbers of ongoing and completed projects by visiting the developers’ websites. The ones for which they haven’t found the numbers have been put in the list. Several buildings were finished before RERA came into the picture. Instead of writing to each builder, they’ve directly uploaded the list.”
 
 He added, “This move is causing severe harm to business. The only way for the developers to come out of this is by giving all necessary details to the authorities. We’ve asked our members to immediately comply with rules and furnish details to RERA. CREDAI is in touch with the authorities to process papers as early as possible.”
 
 Vivekananda Paniyala, a corporate lawyer, termed the move heavily loaded against developers. “The manner in which RERA authorities have published the list tarnishes the image of developers. Buyers are based across the globe and with such a list out in public domain, buyers and prospective investors are going to take it for granted that developers are on the wrong side. Technical terms such as ‘investigation,’ ‘registered’, ‘rejected’ will not be comprehended by the common public. The developers have no chance to explain to global customers why their names have cropped up in the list,” he said.
 
 Mohammed Rafiuddin, proprietor, Asian Builders, Kalaburgi, whose name is in the revised list, said projects from his firm listed are the ones completed even before RERA came into being. “As per the RERA Act, projects for which occupancy certificate was issued after July 10, 2017, need to comply with RERA. Some of my projects listed are as old as 10-15 years. I have met the secretary about this,” he said.
 
 Clarification from secretary
 
 Sunil Kumar P, secretary, RERA, said a notice had been served to all builders to comply with RERA but they did not. This was the reason for the names being listed. “Let them prove they are clean. We’ll immediately delete their names from the list,” he said.
 
 What is RERA?
 
 The objective of RERA Act, 2016 is to reform the real estate sector in India, encourage greater transparency, citizen centricity, accountability and financial discipline. All sections of the RERA Act came into force from May 1, 2017. Under the RERA Act, the Karnataka Real Estate Regulation and Development Rules, 2017 was approved by the Karnataka government and notified on July 10, 2017.
 
 How to stay safe
 
 Customers are requested to seek occupancy certificates from their building developers. Most occupancy certificates come as part of the house documents. If a buyer is satisfied the developer is at fault, he is entitled to withdraw the money, according to RERA secretary Sunil Kumar P.
 
 
