Chennai: Cashew nut is the latest entrant into the list of ‘fatty’ foods that have cracked their unhealthy tag. A palm full of these nuts a day could help reduce   and improve the level of ‘good cholesterol’, a new study has found.

 The findings, published recently in peer-reviewed Journal of Nutrition, is based on a study of 300 people in Chennai with type-2 diabetes. Half of them were asked to consume 30 grams of unsalted, raw, broken cashew nuts a day. At the end of three months, various parameters were studied: their blood pressure — usually high among those with diabetes — had dropped by 5mm. Their high-density lipoprotein (HDL) level, dubbed ‘the good cholesterol’, had increased by 2 milligram. There was no deleterious effect on the body weight or sugar levels.
 
 While studies across the world have shown the benefits of other nuts like almonds and walnuts, little has been done on   – considered a rich nut that adds flavor (and fat) to Indian curries and sweets. 
 
 Nuts are rich in monounsaturated fats (MUFA) and polyunsaturated fats (PUFA) — the ‘good fats’. Current Indian diets are high on carbohydrates – derived largely from polished rice and refined wheat – which account for 64% of total energy intake, and low on MUFAs, which provide just 7-8% of the total energy. The recommended intake is 15-20%.
 
 Dr V Mohan of Madras diabetes research foundation and lead author of the study said unlike other nuts, cashew has higher amount of saturated fats – the ‘bad fats’ found in oily food, ghee and meat. 
 
 “Around 20% of the fat in cashew nut is of the saturated variety. We wanted to check if this type of saturated fat has an impact on cholesterol. It didn’t,” said Dr Mohan. He, however, cautioned that these nuts are beneficial only if taken in their raw form and not when added with salt and other spices, fried or roasted.
 
 Both the study groups were advised to follow, in addition to their medication, a standard diabetic diet of 1,400 calories, with 60–65% of energy coming from carbohydrates, 15–25% from fat, and the rest from protein. One half, who were asked to take 30 grams of cashew nuts a day either as a mid-morning or evening snack, had to reduce their carbohydrates intake to make the comparison even. Biochemical tests were done in both groups to ensure they followed the diet and the nuts were consumed.
 
 Participants in the intervention group (those who were given cashew nuts) had a 1.9-fold greater reduction in blood pressure compared to participants in the other group. Those in the former group also had a 16-fold greater increase in HDL cholesterol compared to the others.
 
 Past studies have also shown that including nuts in breakfast could improve satiety and reduce second meal consumption in adults. Researchers also found that every 100 grams of cashew nuts have 20 grams of proteins. 
 
 “This is crucial as Indians are traditionally low on proteins because of high vegetarian intake,” said Dr Mohan.
 
 The study is significant as past research has found that nearly 80% of Asian Indian adults have dyslipidemia, largely driven by low HDL cholesterol concentrations. Among those with type-2 diabetes, 86% of males and 98% of females have been shown to have dyslipidemia.
 
 The study was funded by the Cashew Export Promotion Council of India and supported by the ministry of commerce. Dr Mohan, however, denied the council had any influence over their research. “We had asked them to be prepared for both scenarios – where the end effect is beneficial or detrimental. Other authors of the study were from Harvard T Chan School of Public Health and Instituto de Salud Carlos III in Spain.
 
 India is one of the largest growers, consumers and exporters of cashew nuts. Excluding groundnuts, cashew nuts are more affordable compared to other nuts like walnuts. The nuts are grown mainly in the south and western states of Karnataka, Kerala, Goa and Maharashtra.
 
 The findings of the study aren’t surprising, considering recent studies have shown the benefits of fat, said Dr B Sesikeran, former director of the National Institute of Nutrition. 
 
 “People in the Mediterranean belt, for example, have the lowest incidence of coronary heart disease as their diet is rich in nuts,” he said, adding that studies have shown that all nuts that grow on trees, like almonds, walnuts and pistachios did not increase body weight. “But this has to be taken in measured quantity,” he said. 
 
 
