PUNE: The results of the higher secondary certificate ( , Std XII) examination in the state will be declared as per schedule as the junior college teachers, who were protesting to press for various demands, called off their stir late on Monday night. 

 After a successful meeting with the state education department, the Maharashtra State Federation of Junior College Teachers Organisation (MFJCTO) assured to submit evaluated answer sheets to the chief moderators and the respective divisional boards from Tuesday onwards.
 
 Till now, the teachers were evaluating the answer sheets but not submitting them to the chief moderators and the state board as a mark of protest against the state government’s failure to agree to their demands.
 
 The members of the federation led by Anil Deshmukh, MFJCTO president, met the education minister   on Monday night. “During the meeting, the state government agreed to declare the names of junior colleges that are permanently unaided and have received grades by the state from Tuesday. Besides, three other important demands were also met by the government,”   said.
 
 The teachers who received no objection and appointment certificates in 2012 will receive appointment letters. A meeting for other finance-related demands has been arranged on April 17 with the finance ministry.
 
 Deshmukh said, “With a positive response from the government and in interest of lakhs of students who have appeared for the HSC exam, we decided to call of the agitation. The moderators have started to submit assessed papers to their respective boards.”
 
 Earlier, the federation had submitted a list of 32 demands of their teachers. These included implementation of old pension scheme, separate administration for junior colleges, confirmation for the teachers completing 24 years in service, benefits for the teachers with MPhil, PhD and MEd degrees, increasing the retirement age up to 60 years and no non-education work for junior college teachers, among others.
 
 There are 72,000 junior college teachers affiliated to various organizations of this federation. Over the last few years, the junior college teachers have boycotted the HSC   to protest against the government inaction.
 
 The teachers did not assess papers between February 21 and March 5 over the set of pending demands. After an assurance from the state education minister, Vinod Tawde, the teachers withdrew their protest and started assessment, but did not forward the assessed answer sheets to the chief moderators and division boards.
 
 
