By  

 In 1965,  , then director of R&D at Fairchild Semiconductor, told the Electronics Magazine that the power of computing would roughly double every two years on the back of advances being made in the nascent field of semiconductors. Three years on, Moore founded what we know as the Intel Corporation and the world hasn’t been the same since. The rise of computing, the fiber optic cable and software ushered in the third industrial or ‘digital’ revolution. And just like Moore’s Law has prophesised, technology has shown no signs of slowing down.
 
 The technology of today is decentralised, pervasive and quickly becoming more intuitive. At an inflection point of this   disruption, businesses face a future of promises, opportunities and challenges. This transformation, which is universal and affects all industries, has redefined concepts of technology, data, connectivity, customer expectations and experiences. Most importantly, it is redefining how we view collaboration. The impact of this rapidly evolving digital reality is also disrupting talent attraction, retention and our concept of work.
 
 A ‘future-ready’ talent force:   transformation is being driven by two powerful forces. The first is the compulsion of digital technologies and ecosystems that are creating new paradigms. With automation making some positions redundant (and creating newer ones), work and skill redistribution assumes greater urgency. This has resulted in increasing skill gaps and calls for changes in every aspect of talent management.
 
 The second is the changing face of the workforce pool.   have emerged as the largest contributors to the global workforce — by 2025, it is estimated that millennials will comprise 76% of this force. Driven, individualistic and non-conforming, these ‘digital natives’ hold the aces in terms of skill and technology acumen that the future-ready business is seeking. Plus, the rapid looming of the freelancing and gig economy will change how organisations will find and deploy talent.
 
 Clearly, companies that aim to lead the way in attracting and retaining the best talent will need to embrace new workforce strategies, and more simply put, new ways of working.
 
 The   workforce – agility for adaptable success: Organisations that truly embrace and leverage the digital imperative are infusing a degree of fluidity into their talent models — one that leverages technology as a strong enabler of innovation and the inherent capabilities of the millennial. The paradigm of work is changing — the new model would meld the essential with the peripheral, while having a designated role for the contextual specialist. The liquid model would work as agile project-oriented groups with an inherent culture of collaboration and skill-sharing. It would innovate with speed. This digitally-powered group rewrites not just what their organisations do but even how they do it. For example, GE’s FastWorks approach brings lean start up practices that empower employees to make speedy and unfettered decisions regarding their deployment and learning. The result? This approach has enabled the company to build a new regulation-compliant ship diesel engine almost two years ahead of its competitors.
 
 With technological collaboration enabling telecommuting and virtual teamwork, the liquid workforce enables a framework that allows each participant to play a uniquely critical role, regardless of where and how they work.
 
 Boundary-less work spaces for the   team: Winning in the future of work hinges on enabling every employee to work in the right place at the right time. The liquid workforce is truly borderless in their way of work, and organisations need to provide the right workspaces for such blended teams.
 
 An open workplace with a mix of collaborative zones, hot-desking, conference rooms and quiet areas can provide full-time employees the right environment to collaborate and achieve heads-down work. Stuffy and boxy desk assignments are out. A work environment that offers flexibility, empowerment and tech enablement is one that will ensure the success of all stakeholders, be it a full-timer or a gig worker. Additionally, intelligent use of analytics can ensure accurate prediction and efficient management of work spaces. Cisco’s connected workspaces, for example, follow a university theme, where open spaces are creatively used to demarcate working areas, informal meeting zones and breakout areas. The absence of cubicle walls creates a more open, natural, light-filled and spacious environment.
 
 In today’s interconnected fourth industrial revolution, ‘tech’ and ‘touch’ must connect innovatively in the people value chain. The liquid workforce will be the new normal for businesses to match and surpass the pace of change in the digital age and score competitive advantages.
 
 The digital, liquid and borderless workforce may be uncharted territory today, but is mission-critical for smarter and faster growth. As the profile of needs and interests of the worker rapidly change, so must the way we approach the notion of work. For organisations that get this right, an agile, fluid and borderless workforce will prove to be a key strategic advantage.
 
 The author is MD & CEO,  . Views are personal
 
 
