Harmanpreet Kaur's unbeaten 171 against Australia in the 2017 Women's World Cup semi-final was so momentous it forced people to take notice of the Indian women's cricket team. It brought overdue recognition, and Kaur recently became the first Indian woman cricketer to sign a bat endorsement deal with tyre manufacturer CEAT.

 
 In their first assignment after the World Cup, India now head to South Africa to play three ODIs and five T20Is. Ahead of their departure, Kaur, the T20I captain and ODI deputy, spoke to Mirror about how her 171 changed things, how she handled the new attention, her experience of playing in Australia and more.
 
 
 
 
 My approach is the same. But that innings has brought a lot of changes to my life. A lot of big companies have started to look at women's cricket, a lot of endorsements... that is a big achievement for me and my team, because we have been working hard for a long time. We did not win the World Cup, but our performance was appreciated by all. After that innings, others have a lot more confidence in me, as do I.
 
 
 
 
 Of course. Even before that, I had played many similar innings for the team, even in domestic cricket. But those are not televised and only those who follow women's cricket know about them. Others are only like, 'who is she?' Thankfully this one was on TV and everyone saw it and enjoyed it. So I have had the experience of playing such innings before, albeit shorter ones, that gave me confidence. It was not an overnight achievement for me that I went out and batted like that out of nowhere. The hard work had been put in for a lot of years, and the innings was a result of that.
 
 
 
 
 I wasn't used to facing the media and being at press conferences. So when you score and you suddenly start getting so many calls, you have no idea what to say because you have no experience of what to say and how to say it. After that, we have had the   arranging sessions where we are told how to interact with people. That helps a lot. As a cricketer, all you know is to play cricket. Baaki kaamon mein sab thode dheele hote hain. That experience has come slowly, and now things have changed.
 
 
 
 
 There was a lot of love from the people after the innings (against Australia). (My hometown) Moga is a small town anyway, and most people know me, because of my dad, who was a pretty decent player during his time. The police had to be called in because there were so many people and it was difficult to reach home. I took all that in a positive way... we have been waiting for such things for a long time. People love men's cricket so much, they keep waiting to have a look at the players, watch them play. As a woman cricketer, I enjoyed the love and support.
 
 
 
 
 It was a long season, and I had not skipped a single game, so my shoulder started giving me problems because of the workload. One of our ex-trainers introduced me to a very good masseur and physio. He helped me a lot. The 15 days I spent with him, he gave a lot of confidence about my shoulder, my throw. Even basic training sessions were very beneficial, still are, and I also tried things such as boxing. I did rehab at the NCA too. When you are young, it does not impact you that much, but now fitness is very important. What work I put in now, will help me for the next five years.
 
 
 
 
 When a camp or tournament is on, the routine is set. When they get over, I take a break for a day or two, and then start my regime. One day, gym session, one day, running session, normal nets one day, open nets one day.
 
 Diet is very important. If you are training and not paying attention to your diet, you do not get the benefit. These things were lacking 4-5 years ago, when I did not know how important diet was. I am from a Punjabi family, ghar pe jo parathe ban rahey hain, sab chal raha tha. Now there is focus on what to eat and when... frequent small meals instead of few large ones.
 
 
 
 
 That was the reason. The Railways had offered me a good position of a gazetted officer. But I would have to continue to stay in Pune away from home. If I move back, I can practise in Chandigarh, which is only 3-4 hours from home. So I can go home whenever I want to. We do not have a team there. So I had spoken to our Chief Minister that we will start forming a team slowly and build something new. Then girls from villages in Punjab and nearby areas such as Himachal and Haryana will not have to go too far from home to play.
 
 
 
 
 Very tough. Apart from your game, you are responsible for everything the entire day. Things such as paying the electricity bill, you have no idea about them when you are at home. Parents handle all that stuff. Your job is only to train. So that caused a few lapses in my cricket too. My performance was up and down. That was why I wanted to join Punjab Police, that if there is anything to be handled, my dad can look after it there.
 
 
 
 
 Very different, and there is a lot to learn from them. Their coaches, trainers and centers at the domestic level, the base they have built... I still feel we do not have a strong base. Only after a national or an NCA camp do our girls realise what needs to be done. Even in club teams there, they have coaches and trainers to work with 15, 16-year old girls. They know all the stuff we learn only at NCA or India camps. If we can have similar training centers and practice facilities... for we have plenty of talent. We have better technique than them. But they have a good diet, for their food is quite different from ours. Physically they are very strong. They have a solid base which gives them a good bunch (of players).
 
 
 
 
 There was so much love from the crowds. The fan following increased a lot. I had to sign many autographs before and after the games. We were three overseas players in the team, and we were never treated as outsiders. Team-mates were friendly, and we gelled soon. It felt like home. Now when I came back leaving the Big Bash League, I keep getting messages from my team-mates about how much they are missing me.
 
 
 
 
 There is not much change. I do share my experiences and ideas from the Big Bash with my team-mates and coach. The responsibility will remain the same. As a captain, your main role is to make the team win with your performances. And that is how I have played since childhood. Even now when Mithali (Raj) di is the captain, I have never thought that it is only her responsibility to make the team win. I take the responsibility too, so that she does not feel all the burden is on her. Similarly for Jhulu (Goswami) di. The only difference in future will be that there will a 'c' alongside my name.
 
