JAIPUR: To de-stress people from all walks of life, the state has to initiate measures related to  

 During a conference on psychology on Tuesday, experts pressed on the need for having   or images at places like stations, busy intersections and hospitals as of the measure for de-stressing the urban population. The two-day conference is being organized by department of psychology,  . Emphasising the importance of the creating a pool for positive psychology, Prerna Puri, a teacher at department of Psychology says, “The time has come to look for a corrective measures to deal with the mental disorders related to emotions, behaviours and thoughts. The government in collaboration with the general public can take steps to minimize the negative impact or experience.”
 
 She suggested that simple act of greeting with a smile at all public places by the first person; receptionist or guards build a positive perception of the place. “The positive perception brings a sense of cooperation, widen tolerance which ultimately enhances the production,” said Puri.
 
 The ideas came up during the discussion also includes—placing full length mirrors at public places like schools, civil hospitals, bus and railway stations. The paintings on the side walls along the roads to deflect the stress built up while stuck in traffic jam.
 
 The indicators for evaluating happiness index are dependent upon the education, health, professional and personal satisfaction, positioning in the community and civic engagement while income of the person also determine the happiness. The experts at the conference also advised the state to form a separate department for happiness which will dedicatedly work for amplifying the happiness.
 
 Professor Geetika Tanka of Manipal University informed to have created an ecosystem in the psychology classroom encouraging students to think out of box ideas. “I ask my students to write two best experience of the day before they sleep and to read all that after a month. The idea is to revitalize them with positive feel out of their own experience,” said Tanka.
 
 
