MADURAI: The injured Russel’s viper from Madurai has had its spine fixed at a multispecialty veterinary hospital in Salem and is now recuperating at the veterinary hospital in  . According to veterinary surgeon Dr  , it has 60 % chances of recovering and slithering back into the forest.

 
 Volunteers of Urvanam, an organization which is into animal rescue, P R Vishwanath, R Saga Devan and J Samson Kirubarkaran, had rescued the injured snake from the roadside at Mullai Nagar in Thirunagar. It was rushed to the government veterinary hospital in Tallakulam where doctors took an X-ray on the serpent with the help of volunteers. On confirming damage to the snake’s spine, it was administered pain killers, but further treatment could not be provided here due to lack of facilities.
 
 The volunteers approached district forest officer J R Samartha who gave them permission to transport the snake out of the district, as it was protected under the wildlife act. The snake was taken to Dr K Asokan of the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve veterinary hospital on Sunday morning. Dr Asokan, who treated the reptile, said that he had found it to be weak as the volunteers had not restricted its movement. There was necrosis of tissue and gangrene had set in around the wound. As the hospital in Sathyamangalam is yet to get a full-fledged operation theatre, they took it to the private multispeciality hospital in Salem, which is run by Dr Amarnath. The snake was administered oral anaesthesia and the damaged ribs and spine set right in a four-hour surgery. As the snake seemed to have sustained the injury around 15 days ago and gone without food since then, it was weak and had to be given oral fluids.
 
 It would be kept at Sathyamangalam for a week, where its movements have been restricted, and then taken for a check-up to Salem. If it was found to be recovering and the internal wounds healing, it would be released into the wild in Sathayamangalam. ``This is an endangered snake which causes the highest number of mortality when it bites humans. But this one is young, around six years old, and can live till the age of 20,’’ said Dr Asokan.
 
 
