MUMBAI/KOLKATA: In a move to consolidate its leadership position, the Kumar   Birla-led   Cement will buy the cement business of   and Industries for an enterprise value of Rs 8,621 crore. The proposed deal will help UltraTech cross the 100-million-tonne capacity milestone and will make the company the third-largest player globally (excluding China). 

 The enterprise value of Rs 8,621 crore includes a debt of Rs 3,000 crore. Century Textiles will first separate the cement division and then the demerged company will be combined with UltraTech. Shareholders of UltraTech will get eight shares of the demerged Century Textiles for every one share held. After the deal, UltraTech promoters will see their holding go up slightly from 60.98% to 61.22%. 
 
 With a 31% stake,   Investment and Industries owns the biggest chunk of Century Textiles. Pilani, in turn, is owned by UltraTech chairman Kumar Mangalam and his grandfather Basant Kumar Birla. While the senior Birla is the chairman of Century Textiles, Kumar Mangalam is the company’s VC. 
 
 The transaction, with consent from regulators and shareholders, is expected to be completed by the end of the current fiscal year.
 
 UltraTech MD K Maheshwari doesn’t see any hurdle in getting approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI) for the transaction. “We have consulted top lawyers who have told us that there won’t be any difficulty in getting the   nod. In any case, UltraTech will own less than 25% of the total cement capacity of 450 million tonnes in the country after the completion of the deal,” Maheshwari said. 
 
 UltraTech is also in the midst of a takeover battle for   Cement, which has a capacity of 10 million tonnes. The second-largest cement player   has a total capacity of about 65 million tonnes in the country. 
 
 UltraTech and the demerged Century Textiles combination will create a company with a turnover and an operating profit of Rs 34,306 crore and Rs 7,192 crore respectively. 
 
 Century Textiles is selling the cement business to focus on the real estate, textiles and pulp & paper businesses.Century Textiles owns vast acres in various places including Mumbai’s Worli (30 acres), Kalyan (30 acres) and Pune (45 acres). 
 
 The acquisition by UltraTech will make Kumar Mangalam the undisputed king of the Indian cement industry. Century Textiles’ cement division has three plants and a grinding unit with a total capacity of 13 million tonnes. 
 
 Basant Kumar Birla took control of Century Textiles after the demise of patriarch G D Birla in 1983. At that time, the company was mainly into textiles. Basant Kumar then subsequently diversified its operations into cement and paper. Between 2006 and 2010, the senior Birla mapped out a settlement plan that included the group’s flagship Century Textiles going to Kumar Mangalam with the others like  , Mangalam Cement and ECE going to his daughters and their children.
 
 
