Nagpur: The 46 passengers in AC II-tier (A2) coach of 15015 Gorakhpur-Yeshvantpur Express had a miraculous escape when a wheel of the bogey broke into pieces while the train was running at over 100 kmph between Sonkhamb and Kohli stations, around 30 minutes away from Nagpur, on Tuesday. A woman, travelling to Secunderabad with two daughters, was the only person injured as the train was brought to a shuddering halt after chain pulling by passengers, who heard a loud noise. It’s learnt that a pointsman at Sonkhamb railway station had alerted authorities about the ‘quivering’ wheel of AC2 coach. A senior railway official said the wheels would have been checked at Kohli station, but the wheel gave way barely 3km away, some 6km from Kohli station. The train was running four hours late when the accident happened at about 8am, and later left Nagpur station at 4.15pm, 12 hours behind schedule, with a replacement coach. Six other southbound trains too were delayed three to five hours. Railway authorities found the broken two-and-a-half feet rim of the wheel around a couple of kilometres away. Officials said it was fortunate the train ran without mishap with the broken wheel. In the morning, the relaxed atmosphere in the AC II-tier coach, with most passengers either in slumber or just waking up, was shattered by a deafening sound. Passengers, for whom the noise sounded like an explosion, started running helter skelter. One of the passengers, Vikas Singh, pulled the chain. This attracted the attention of the RPF personnel, who had boarded the train at Itarsi and were in B1 coach. Told about the loud noise, the RPF staffers at first did not realize the problem. They neutralized the chain to let the train start moving again. However, the passengers, including a travelling railway employee, asked them to check once under the train. RPF head constable Pramod Daine then came across the broken wheel, and alerted the loco-pilot and guard. “Initially, I had thought there might be a boulder or animal stuck beneath,” he said. Divisional Railway Manager, Nagpur, Central Railway, Somesh Kumar, who led the operations to salvage the situation, admitted the broken wheel could have lead to derailment. “We were informed at 8.07am about the incident. Relief was dispatched from Ajni depot at 8.50am, it reached Sonkhamb at 11.07am. The train was taken to Sonkhamb at 12.43pm,” he said. “The train left Sonkhamb at 2.22pm and reached Nagpur at 3.05pm,” said Kumar. Pantry cars of two trains, including Nagpur-bound Gondwana Express, were used to supply around 350 food packets and water bottles in the affected coaches. RPF staffers summoned three water tankers to supply water to the passengers of the train, which was stranded at the accident site for over four-and-a-half hours. The passengers of the affected A2 coach were comforted by the intervention of railway authorities on war-footing. They were accommodated in A1 and A3 coaches till Nagpur, as the stricken coach was removed at Sonkhamb, and then moved to a AC III coach attached to the rear of the train.