PANCHKULA: In the cheating case involving office-bearers of Dera Sacha Sauda, Panchkula additional sessions judge (ASJ) on Thursday allowed anticipatory bail to four accused. Among those who have been given the pre-arrest bail include Diwan Jawahar Lal, Kalpana Gupta, Aman Mittal and  .

 While granting them bail,   also directed them to join the investigations on April 10 till 12 noon while fixing April 30 as the next date of hearing in the matter.
 
 The incident dates to February 28, when 40 persons, including dera functionaries and builders, were booked in a case of cheating and extortion registered against them on the complaint of  , a builder.
 
 Pleading innocence, the four accused had denied they had defrauded or extorted money from complaint Ajayveer or his mother. The accused applicants alleged that Sehgal was using the registration of the case as an arm twisting exercise to claim money from those named in the FIR.
 
 All the accused cited the example of Ram Murti, a close confidant of the dera chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, who was accused of extortion. Besides extortion, Sehgal had alleged that Ram Murti and Chamkaur Singh had forced him to transfer one flat to the dera.
 
 Soon after registration of case, Ram Murti and one Charanjit Kaur had applied for the anticipatory bail. “Ram Murti had made the payment of Rs 40 lakh through two demand drafts favoring Ajayveer and his mother. He had withdrawn his bail application and police have not visited him once whereas the cops were harassing the other accused,” defence counsels told court while pleading innocence of their clients.
 
 Accepting the plea of the applicants, the court ordered interim bail for the four accused while directing the investigating officer to release them after furnishing the bail bonds. 
 
 In the detailed order, the judge also questioned the investigations while asking Panchkuala deputy commissioner of police (DCP) to probe the entire issue. It relates to certain missing documents of the case files and information sought by the judge from the investigating officer present in the court.
 
 
