BENGALURU: The   has ordered online bus ticketing platforms including   to obtain a  . The move is being seen as an attempt to rein in private bus operators from fleecing passengers, especially during festivals and on weekends.

 The Central Motor Vehicles Act mandates that any agent who solicits customers for public service vehicles should obtain a licence. RedBus had recently applied for a licence, but sources say the department rejected the application on the grounds that the firm was operating in violation of the motor vehicles act.
 
 In its defence, the firm has stated that it is only a technology platform that connects bus operators and passengers. The firm also claimed they do not fall under the Motor Vehicles Act within the definition of either ‘agent’ or ‘canvasser’, but rather they fall under the IT Act.
 
 RedBus has now approached the   (KSTAT). “We are waiting for KSTAT’s decision to take further action," said J Jnanendra Kumar, joint commissioner (Bengaluru).
 
 Kumar insisted that it was not just RedBus alone and the department will issue notices to other online ticket booking sites demanding they get a licence. "At present, no booking site has a licence so we cannot take action even if passengers complain that these websites are charging exorbitant fares.”
 
 A transport department official revealed the crackdown comes in the wake of several complaints from passengers claiming online bus booking sites charge commissions from ranging from 10% to 20%. “In addition to the commission from bus operators, online sites also collect additional charges from passengers as well,” the official said.
 
 He said under the rules private buses, essentially contract carriers, are only allowed to ferry passengers when tickets are booked in bulk — for instance wedding parties. This means online bus booking sites cannot sell individual tickets of contract carriage buses. However, in violation of rules, most contract carriage buses ply as regular stage carriage buses, picking up and dropping passengers at various points and issuing individual tickets through online booking sites.
 
 RedBus refused to reply or answer emails and calls seeking their reaction.
 
 
