CHENNAI: The police on Wednesday arrested the wife of a   driver, who was murdered on March 12. They also arrested her boyfriend and four other friends at   near Kalpakkam.

 A team led by the   deputy superintendent of police Subburaj suspected the role of the deceased man’s wife Chandramathi, after they identified the victim as Selvam. Preliminary inquiries with neighbours revealed that Chandramathi and Selvam often quarrelled over trivial issues.
 
 On Monday, Selvam left his house in Ayapakkam near Kalpakkam in the morning but failed to return home. As he still hadn’t returned on Tuesday morning, Chandramathi lodged a police complaint to trace him. Meanwhile, police personnel recovered a male body with deep stab injuries by the side of the road in Poonthandalam village, also near Kalpakkam on Monday. The body was sent to the Government Hospital in Chengalpet. Police personnel took Chandramathi to the morgue in Chengalpet GH and she identified the body as that of her missing husband’s.
 
 Police personnel summoned Chandramathi to appear before the Thirukazhukundram police on Tuesday to conduct inquiries in connection with the  . However, Chandramathi failed to appear before the police. 
 
 Police said she was waiting at the bus terminus in Thirukazhukundram to board a bus to Chennai when inspector Ayyanarappan and his team nabbed her. She was taken to the police station and questioned. During investigation, she initially denied any involvement in the crime. 
 
 She later confessed to have conspired in the murder of her husband. She told police that her boyfriend Anandan and his friends were behind Selvam’s murder.
 
 Police said Chandramathi had developed an illicit affair with Anandan two years ago. When Selvam came to know of this relationship, he had insisted that she sever all ties with Anandan. However, she continued her relationship with Anandan and devised a plan to eliminate her husband. Based on her plan, Anandan and his friends — Prakash, 20, of Ayapakkam, Sridhar, 30, of Vayalur, Karthik, 22, and Suresh, 35, of Kalpakkam — intercepted Selvam and murdered him before dumping his body amid the bushes. They soon escaped from the area.
 
 The Thirukazhukundram police registered a murder case and arrested Chandramathi, Anandan and the four accomplices. The arrested were remanded in   after being produced before a magistrate court.
 
 
