CENTURION: Do not get greedy and bowl fuller. Have patience. Maintain a strict length. Stick to basics. Stay disciplined. Results will show.

 
 This is the crux of every meeting the Indian team management has had with the bowling unit since Day Three of the first Test in Cape Town. The day that was lost to rain and gave the Indian team a great deal of time to sit and ponder what had gone wrong over the first two days.
 
 
 
 
 The wicket at Centurion will play differently to the one at Newlands. In fact, South Africa will not be betting big on Vernon Philander, unlike the first game.
 
 India will possibly take a call on whether to continue with   or bring back  .
 
 The selection of the attack aside, it’s the drilling of discipline into these young minds that has worked for Team India, whose bowling unit is good enough to match up to that of the hosts.
 
 Jasprit Bumrah, the young man with his unorthodox action and the one who wrested the momentum India’s way on Day Four in Cape Town, admits that discipline is the key.
 
 "In the first innings we thought we bowled a little fuller than normal, because in India the wickets are different where we have to pitch the ball fuller to get the swing and to get the batsmen on the front foot," says Bumrah.
 
 "Over here (in SA) there is bounce. We analysed that and tried to adapt in the second innings and as a unit we were able to create pressure, so that was the basic plan going into the second innings. That worked well."
 
 The bowling unit has been directed to watch videos of the first Test, the second innings spell to be specific, where the difference in the length they bowled made all the difference. "So we will see videos of these wickets and plan according to it," said Bumrah.
 
 "You try to do that bit extra, but that won't help. So we were just trying to be disciplined and stick to the basics," says Bumrah.
 
 India may juggle with their pace unit going into the second Test at a venue that promises pace and bounce but may not be equally effective with swing. The earlier idea of roping in Ishant Sharma ahead of Bhuvneshwar Kumar could well come into play given the former's height and the advantage he can get from a hard deck here.
 
 With only one nets session so far, Team India were yet to put an elaborate plan in place for the XI, one that should be finalised post Friday's practice session.
 
 
