Rajkot: Four persons were arrested and a 17-year-old boy held on Monday for beating a 30-year-old Dalit man Mukesh Vaniya to death and assaulting two female members of his family (wife Jaya and aunt Savita) in Shapar industrial area near Rajkot on Sunday. Police said that the accused suspected Vaniya and his family members to be thieves. However, Vaniya’s wife Jaya alleged that the accused first inquired about their caste and hurled caste-based abuses before thrashing them. 

 A video of the incident — purportedly showing two people taking turns to beat Mukesh, a ragpicker, with a stick while another person holding him by a rope tied to his waist -- has gone viral on the social media. 
 
 The Gujarat government on Monday announced Rs 8.25 lakh compensation for Vaniya’s family. Ishwar Parmar, social justice and empowerment minister and Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS, home, announced the financial assistance and assured to take strict legal action against the culprits. “Considering the seriousness of the incidence, government has announced immediate compensation of Rs.8.25 lakh to Mukesh Vaniya’s family. Fifty per cent financial assistance was given to the grieving family immediately through cheque,” the minister said in a joint statement. 
 
 Police arrested owner of Radadiya Industries Jaysukh Radadiya (39), his two brothers-in-law Chirag Vitthal Vora (28) and Divyesh Kishorebhai Vora (32) and his associate Tejas Kanubhai Zala (29) for beating Vaniya to death. All have been booked under Sections 302 (murder) 143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 148 (armed with deadly weapon) and SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocity) Act. They were produced before a court which sent them to police custody till May 25.
 
 Police said that they are yet to verify the age of the fifth accused who too was detained in connection with the case. 
 
 Vaniya and his family had migrated from Parnara village in Limbdi taluka of Surendranagar to Rajkot last week for employment. The victim’s body was cremated at his native village on Monday morning. The deceased is survived by his wife Jaya and two children — a four-year-old son and eight-year-old daughter. Jaya is suffering from some liver decease.
 
 Gondal Dy SP D M Chauhan told TOI, “The accused are engaged in the business of melting scrap. In past, some ragpickers had stolen some scrap from the factory. So, on Sunday when they (factory owner and others) got information that two women and one man were picking up waste near the factory they caught them and thrashed the man after tying him which resulted in his death.”
 
 When asked if the man was beaten because of his caste, Chauhan said, “The accused have said that they were not aware of his caste at the time of beating him.”
 
 Police said that the minor accused was native of Jamnagar and come to his maternal uncle’s house in Shapar. He was at a pan shop opposite the factory and went to inquire why the people were beating Vaniya. When he was told that the man who was being thrashed was a thief, he too joined the accused.
 
 According to the FIR, Vaniya, his wife Jaya and aunt Savita were picking up waste near Radadiya Industries on Sunday morning when they picked up a fight with them and accused them of theft. Jaya and Savita were thrashed and sent out of the factory while Vaniya was taken inside and allegedly tied up with a rubber tube and thrashed with pipes and stick. 
 
 When Jaya returned with her relatives and other villagers Vaniya was lying unconscious on the floor of the factory. He succumbed to injuries and was declared dead on arrival at Rajkot Civil Hospital.
 
 
