HYDERABAD: Top Maoist and   state committee secretary   has foxed the elite Greyhounds for over a decade, leaving police to scour bodies at encounter sites for the elusive guerrilla. If he wriggled out this time too at the Pujarkanker forests in  , it will be the umpteenth time police missed him. If he’s dead, he’s the biggest catch for police.

 
  
 
 Haribhushan is among the only two leaders in   (Maoist), who has an intrinsic network among locals and a command over topography along Godavari river straddling bordering areas of Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. The only other Maoist to match his skills is Damodar, secretary of   committee.
 Ever since Haribhushan was appointed secretary, Telangana State Committee, following carving out of Telangana, he has been struggling to develop and execute tactics due to cadre crunch.
 
 During any inter-border foray, it’s either Haribhushan or Damodar who would lead Maoists. Based on confessions and material recovered from hideouts and encounter sites, Haribhushan has narrowly missed being killed in several police encounters.
 
 As of now, Haribhushan and Damodar are the only two Maoists from the local state committee who know businessmen or contractors in Telangana from whom they extort money. They also know crossing points to enter Telangana from adjoining states and still hold sway over old, trusted sympathisers.
 
 “It will be difficult for CPI Maoists to find a replacement for Haribhushan. He’s involved in at least 50 cases in his more than 20-year association with Left-wing extremism,’’ an official told TOI.
 
 Haribhushan’s strength has been his ability to execute killings and trigger arson. He has never been seriously involved in activities like evolving strategies or recruitments until he was made secretary. He committed several offences in Chhattisgarh along with his associate Ramana on the directions of central committee, said sources.
 
 Haribhushan is supposed to have a platoon with him while on the move. But due to shrinking cadre, he moves with 10 Special Guerrilla Squad members and three members of local dalams.
 
