HYDERABAD: The Union ministry of home affairs ( ) has notified that at least 186 NGOs from  , mostly based in the twin cities, failed to submit their annual returns of foreign contributions. Religious organisations, primarily churches and a few Hindu trusts, and caste organisations are among the NGOs which failed to submit the reports.

 
 Of the 3,292 NGOs and associations in the country which were served notices by the MHA, 186 are from Telangana and, of them, nearly 100 from Hyderabad and Secunderabad.
 
 According to Section 18(1) of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act ( ), associations registered under the Act have to submit an online annual report with documents of income and expenditure, receipts and payment account and balance sheet for every financial year within nine months of the closure of the fiscal. Associations which do not receive any foreign funding have to submit a ‘NIL’ report. MHA has warned the associations of action for noncompliance if they don’t comply within 15 days from the date of issue of the notice.
 
 According to MHA,   is among those which did not submit the annual returns for three financial years (2013-14 to 2016-17). Satya Harishchandra Foundation, Goodwill Healthcare and Research Foundation, Gandikota Foundation, Drithi Foundation, Sneha Society, Grace Ministries Social Welfare Charitable Organisation, Banjara Baptist Sanghevur Malawo, Gracious Paradise Charitable Foundation, Equip Ecclesia Ministeries, Roshni Trust, Sarvodaya Welfare and Universal Dalits Welfare Society were among those who did not submit returns for three or more years.
 
 Former IFS officer M  , who has been fighting for regulation of foreign contributions to NGOs, told TOI, “There is a clause in FCRA that the NGOs can get funds for propagation of religion too. Not filing accounts is a serious issue. Earlier, MHA had cancelled the FCRA of those NGOs which did not submit the returns. The government should discourage foreign funding and aid NGOs to get internal funding through corporates. For some NGOs, the foreign funding is nothing but a profit-making business and self-employment.”
 
