LUCKNOW: In a one-of-its-kind  , children with autism will get a chance to build their own robots and display their creation in the the city.

 Developing her idea on the principle that autistic children would be comfortable working around sensory objects and those with visual elements, teacher and robotics enthusiast   is holding a first-of-its-kind robotics and drone piloting summer workshop for them. To help autistic children from poor backgrounds, the workshop will be free.
 
 To begin from May 21, the 20-day workshop at   will end with the specially able children holding a grand exhibition at the college’s  , displaying their robotics and drone photography skills on June 10.
 
 The head of the drone robotics department at the college,   has put in a year of research in sensory and learning difficulties of autistic children for the programme. With a BEd degree in special education, she then developed a sensory robotic kit and curriculum for children with special needs.
 
 “A 2013 UNICEF report says that audio-visual applications, mobile and computer devices, symbol-based interaction, virtual reality technologies and most importantly sensory objects should be designed to assist an autistic child’s weakness so that they can be more active in the learning process with their instructor and classmates or peers. The entire kit and curriculum are designed on this basis,” she said.
 
 Six autistic children have already enrolled with Mirza for the workshop. While she will give away the kit worth Rs 6,500 to families who can pay the amount, autistic children from poor families will be taught on the kits for free.
 
 “All children will create robots themselves. I found that these children like to work around building blocks and so I have numbered all robotics blocks in sequence,” she said.
 
 The primary four robots that the children will be taught to create are: my pet robot (designed with an eye scanner, the robot will identify its owner and become like a pet to that child, working on command), auto-sensor car, a personalised lamp that works on sound and a follow-me walking robot.
 
 “The aim is not only to motivate autistic children towards science and developing their cognitive abilities, but also to make parents aware that their children can do wonders if given the right platform,” said Mirza.
 
 The workshop, she said, would stimulate the children’s brain function, improve memory, attention and reaction time, and open to them the world of robotics and science.
 
