TRICHY: The fifth programme of Happy Streets, which was held on   in the city on Sunday, was relished by everyone as it continues to reach and connect with more and more Trichiites every passing week. A few parents were extremely proud as their young and talented children were given a chance to showcase their skills and get resounding applause from the spectators.

 The Times of India, with the support of   and  , had kickstarted Happy Streets programme at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) on February 25. A coin collection exhibition — which was loved by both adults and children — was the highlight of Sunday’s programme. Founder and president of Tiruchirappalli Notaphily Society, P Vijayakumar, who organised the exhibition, said that he was happy with the fact that young boys and girls were eager to know about the history and evolution of coins. “The exhibition covered coins from almost every country. Kids were very surprised to know that even pentagon-shaped coins existed,” he said.
 
 The programme truly belonged to three talented youngsters – S Santhosh Kumar, Alijackaria Sheriff and   – who enthralled the crowd with drums, freestyle dance and bharatanatyam performances respectively. Kumar, a Class X student, said that it was a dream-come-true for him to perform in front of such an appreciative audience. “Though I have been a drummer for many years now, Sunday’s event will stay close to my heart because I got a great feedback,” he exclaimed proudly.
 
 On the other hand, Harini thanked TOI for providing a platform to exhibit her talent. “We got to know about Happy Streets from our family friends and I came here all set to perform. The organisers were more than happy to let me take the stage and show my Bharatanatyam ability,” she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Sheriff’s father,  , was happy that his son was provided a summer camp course by Twilight Dance Studio founders who were impressed with the boy’s dancing abilities. “My son so far has been a self-taught dancer and now it is a great opportunity for him to master his skills under seasoned professionals,” he told TOI. Apart from these events, regular activities like yoga, zumba and cycling were conducted in the fifth programme too. 
 
 Over the course of the first four weeks, the participants were exposed to new activities and awareness programmes – which they had not tried out earlier. A few women said that they were looking forward to Happy Streets every Sunday because they loved the zumba classes. The self-defence session as well as ‘Breast Screening Service’ session conducted by Dr K Shantha Breast Cancer Foundation to create awareness on breast cancer and related diseases were also hugely beneficial for them. The Happy Streets initiative will be conducted every Sunday over the course of the next seven weeks in Trichy from 6 am to 9 am.
 
 
