NEW DELHI: More than two years after it quashed the   ( ) and suggested reforms in the collegium system for appointment of judges to constitutional courts, the   on Wednesday lamented that the mandated changes had not taken effect yet. 

 A two-judge bench of Justices Adarsh K Goel and U U Lalit referred to the December 2015 judgment of a five-judge Constitution bench, which suggested laying down eligibility criteria for appointment of persons as judges of the   and HCs, transparency in selection process, setting up of secretariat in every HC and SC for collating information about persons in selection zone, mechanism to address complaints against those in the zone of consideration and drafting of a new memorandum of procedure for ensuring transparency and accountability.
 
 Writing the judgment for the bench, Justice Goel, who was part of the five-judge Constitution bench which quashed NJAC, said: "Improvement contemplated in the above (NJAC) judgment does not seem to have been seen the light of the day." 
 
 He also said that in the judgment sentencing Justice C S Karnan for contempt of court, judges in their separate judgments had also made observations about revisiting the process of appointments and a mechanism for corrective measures other than removal of an erring judge.
 
 The bench said while the five-judge bench in NJAC case had suggested improvements in the process for selection of persons for appointment as judges of constitutional courts, authorities concerned must engage urgently to evolve "corrective measures against post-appointment conduct of inadequate performance or failure to uphold righteous conduct". 
 
 "The system cannot remain static or unconcerned even when problems are patent. As already noted there appears to be dire need to strengthen the system of timely appointment of judges, particularly chief justices. Identification of candidates, scrutiny, evaluation and post appointment performance measurements and conduct are time-consuming processes and at least some independent full-time experts are required, if timely and best appointments are to be ensured and requisite in-house oversight is to be a reality," the bench said.
 
 "A full-time body consistent with independence of judiciary appears to be the immediate need for the system. Absence thereof contributes to denial of justice. Centre must also ensure that MOP in pursuance of order of this court in NJAC case dated December 16, 2015 brings about the improvement in working of the collegiums as stipulated," it said.
 
  Referring to heavy pendency of cases in SC and HCs, the bench said: "The concerned authorities may examine the need for any changes in the judicial structure by creating appropriate fora to de-congest the constitutional courts so as to realistically achieve the constitutional goal of speedy justice."
 
 On  , the SC said: "There is need to consider the proposal for central selection mechanism for filling up of vacancies in courts other than constitutional courts and also to consider as to how supplement inadequacies in the present system of appointment of judges to the constitutional courts at all levels."
 
 
