BENGALURU: Over a month after   launched smartcards on route No. 335-E (  bus station to Kadugodi) for cashless travel, the facility is now being extended to all its   buses. But thanks to poor awareness, barely 250 passengers have purchased the e-purse cards so far.

 However, BMTC sources said conductors and their machines on most Volvo routes are still warming up to this new mode of ticketing. Though, officially, the utility is yet to announce the extension of the scheme, commuters can use the cards on all Volvo buses.
 
 
 
  
 
 A reality check on route No. 335-E revealed an overriding majority of card-users were techies who see the facility as a relief from scouting around for change. Barring a few minor glitches, conductors too admit that it’s been a hassle-free ride so far.
 
 On Thursday, TOI visited the smartcard issuance counter at Majestic, which has issued 122 such cards since December 27, 2017. Two other counters have been set up at Domlur and  .
 
 “Earlier, cashless facility was available only on route No. 335-E. Now, it has been extended to all Volvo buses. However, response is still low. We have also put up banners around bus terminals to encourage more passengers to use smartcards on-board Volvo bus,” said a staffer at the counter.
 
 Unlike other government offices, the counter requires no manual filling of forms, photographs or photocopy of government identity cards. All one has to do is show any identity document. Once the address and contact details are shared, an OTP is sent to the applicant’s mobile number. On entering the OTP, the BMTCAXIS bank card is handed over t o the passenger and it’s immediately activated. All this takes less than five minutes.
 
 The card costs Rs 30 and can be topped for values between Rs 100 and Rs 10,000. Once in the bus, the conductor swipes the smartcard in the machine and enters the destination, after which the corresponding travel fare is deducted. “It’s been good so far,” said a conductor on route 335-E. “Once in a while it takes more time to generate a ticket due to network issues. Every day, an average of five passengers are using this card on this bus. Earlier, there would be instances of passengers giving Rs 500 or Rs 2,000 for smalldenomination tickets,” he added.
 
 BMTC, which unveiled the smartcard in June 2016, delayed its launch due to technical glitches. “We will extend them to ordinary buses in a phased manner. This way, we will also be able to track the revenue generated,” said an official.
 
 When contacted, a senior official with   said they have distributed more than 1.30 lakh smartcards, most of which are used by student pass-holders. “We have identified various technical and transaction issues after the trail in the 335-E route,” the official said.
 
 “We’ve been waiting for the card as most conductors insists on the exact amount and rarely return the balance,” said Nirmal J, a commuter between Majestic and Kadugodi.
 
 However, some passengers say not all conductors accept these cards. Aja Sharma, who regularly travels between Majestic and Koramangala, said: “Some conductors say there are technical faults with the machine and that they can’t accept the card. Smartcard is a good idea, but if conductors don’t accept it, it won’t serve the purpose.”
 
