If you are one of the people who stay away from workouts in summer citing high temperatures, you haven’t heard of   brevets. Randonneuring or long-distance cycling has caught the fancy of Nagpurians over the last few years and the soaring mercury levels during the day make these night brevets a soothing experience. Recently, around 24 city cyclists pedalled for the all-night brevets (200 km and 300 km) that were flagged off from The Zero Mile. In fact, the number of people opting for this has also gone up considerably. “Compared to the last year, the participation went up by 20 per cent this time. The number of people giving up before reaching the finish line has gone down too,” says Prasad Pitale, one of the   organisers in the city.
Besides the pleasant weather, less traffic is also a reason why cyclists prefer night brevets. “Nothing beats the joy of riding through the night, on the highways. The night brevets generally begin on a Saturday evening and get over by the first half of Sunday. So, we get to relax for the rest of the day and resume work on Monday,” says Yogesh Dapurkar, an ardent   who recently completed a 300 km night brevet.
 For educationist Deepanti Pal, who participated for the first time in a night brevet organised last month in Nagpur, the journey turned out to be a memorable one. She says, “I was the only woman participant. Through the night, I managed to cover maximum distance in less time, but as the temperature began to rise, it became quite difficult to continue riding at a similar pace. But, I agree that night brevets are better than day brevets.”
 With pros come the cons and that’s true about night cycle riding as well. Those who have been on brevets confess to having faced some challenges.   Oberoi, a 48-year-old cyclist, shares that this sport tests your endurance level and not all participants are able to complete it. “You may feel sleepy and the track also may not be visible at night,” says Manoj. 
 Proper sleep management is extremely important in order to pull off an all-night brevet with ease, suggests super randonneur   Raich, who had completed a 1200 km brevet last year. He adds, “A randonneur must keep himself/ herself hydrated during a night brevet in summers. Most importantly, one should consume adequate amounts of carbohydrates before starting the ride.”
 
 
 
 “I’m 58 and my main purpose of participating in night brevets is to stay fit. When you finish the ride, it gives you a different high.”
 — Vijay Hinge, a Nagpur cyclist who rode in Pune recently
 A lot of city cyclists participate in the 
 all-night brevets organised in other cities as well. So, looking at their enthusiasm, we have decided to organise at least three all-night brevets in Nagpur next summer season.”
 — Prasad Pitale
 
 Must carry items for the participants 
 
 
 
