Mumbai:  , the Indian arm of the Dutch major which had delisted the company in 2001, is at the receiving end of   activism for attempting to extinguish about 22.3 lakh shares — all held by minority shareholders — and pay them Rs 560 per share. These shareholders believe that the price is much below the intrinsic value. 

 Since  , this is the third attempt by the Netherlands-based consumer electronics-cum-healthcare technology major to buy out minority shareholders, totalling about 37,500, with most from West Bengal. Earlier attempts were thwarted by the same shareholders since the price was “not right”, they said.
 
 On April 10, the shareholders mounted a concerted effort at Philips India’s extraordinary general meeting in Kolkata, where the published voting results showed the resolution to extinguish the shares as passed. The shareholders have now moved NCLT in Kolkata with a caveat even before Philips India moves the tribunal.
 
 Philips India’s minority shareholders, who together hold nearly 4% in the company, believe that the current price should be in the range of Rs 2,000 per share at a   (P/E) ratio of nearly 16. That P/E value would be comparable to listed peers like   (64) and   (35). Philips India, however, said that these listed companies cannot be compared with itself since all of their business verticals do not overlap.
 
 The valuation report for extinguishing Philips India’s minority shares was given by  , while   gave a fairness opinion on the same. At the offer price of Rs 560 per share, the company — one of the leading players in the health technology and homecare sectors — is valued at about Rs 3,200 crore. This is less than half a billion dollars at current dollar-rupee exchange rate. In comparison, Whirlpool is valued at nearly Rs 20,000 crore on the  , while Siemens India is worth more than Rs 38,800 crore.
 
 Shareholders opposing the company’s move also said that some of Philips India’s fixed assets were not revalued for more than 15 years, a charge that the company agreed to. Philips India said that since there was no legal or regulatory requirement for it to revalue its fixed assets, no such revaluation was done.
 
 Some of the shareholders also alleged that Philips India was using unfair means when they asked the company to give them the full list of 37,500 shareholders. An email from the company to one of the opposing shareholders, a copy of which is with TOI, asked the shareholder to pay Rs 25,000 for the full list of its shareholders. “After receipt of the payment, it will take around 15 to 20 working days time to dispatch the physical data at the address provided in your letter. Please note that the shareholder list can be provided only in hard copy,” the mail said.
 
 When asked by TOI if such conditions were part of standard norms to obtain a shareholders’ list, the company said that shareholders were free go to its office and inspect the register at any time free of cost. “For any copies of the same, we follow established legal practices of charging Rs 10 per page as laid down in the Companies Act,” it said.
 
 
