JAIPUR: The farmers, who will surrender their land for   housing project will have to pay 60% of lease money for developed land, which they would receive as compensation.

 This would cost farmers between Rs 50,000 and Rs 2 lakh to procure a developed plot in the scheme. While, the   ( ) has decided to waive off its share of lease money, the farmers will have to pay the amount that will be deposited in finance department account.
 
 “The amount of lease money collected is share by the JDA and finance department. The share of JDA is 40%, while finance department collects is 60% of the lease money amount. As per the   (Disposal of Urban Land) Rules, the decision to waive off lease money entirely state government’s decision. The JDA has decided not to take its share, however, finance department has asked to provide its share,” said a JDA official. 
 
 At present, on residential plot up to the size of 200 square yard, the JDA levy Rs 162 per square yard and Rs 324 per square yard on commercial plots. On plot size above 200 square yard, the JDA levy Rs 216 per square yard on   and Rs 432 on per square yard on commercial properties.
 
 JDA officials believe, “As JDA is waiving off its lease money share, more farmers would surrender their land.”
 
 The civic body has planned to develop 3,000 plots of different sizes on approximately 1,296 bighas. Senior official at JDA said, “As per preliminary estimation, the JDA would fix Rs 16,000 per square metre as reserve price. However, the actual price will be fixed by the finance department. The proposal has been forwarded for the same. The scheme is expected to be launched soon,” he said.
 
 Though, the JDA has planned to launch the housing scheme at Ninder, the deadlock between farmers and civic body remains over the land acquisition.
 
 Earlier, farmers of Ninder village had lain half-buried on the ground for 40 days against the acquisition of their agriculture land. They had 'called off' their protest on October 31 after receiving written assurance from the JDA to conduct a fresh survey of the acquired land.
 
 
