SHIMLA: The 900-megawatt Arun-3 Hydroelectric Power Plant in Kathmandu, whose foundation stone was jointly laid by Prime Minister   and his Nepalese counterpart K P Sharma Oli on Saturday, will be executed by Shimla-based company SJVN. 

 “The project is being executed by SJVN through its wholly-owned subsidiary namely SJVN Arun-3 Power Development Company,” said  , chairman and managing director of SJVN. He also said for the implementation of Arun-3 Project, four major contracts have already been awarded.
 
 The project is located on Arun river in   district of Nepal and has been allocated to SJVN based on international competitive bidding by   in March, 2008. The MoU for execution of Arun-3 project was signed between the Government of Nepal and SJVN on March 2, 2008.
 
 According to Sharma, this is an export-oriented project with a generation capacity of 900 MW. The height of the dam will be 70 metres while the head race tunnel will be 11.7 km. The power house of the project will be underground consisting of four vertical francis turbines, each 225 MW.
 
 The Arun-3 project has the potential to generate 4018.87 million units of electricity every year. The project also involves erection of 217 km long 400 KV double circuit transmission line up to Nepal-India border, he said.
 
 Sharma said the project was awarded to SJVN Limited on build-own-operate-transfer (BOOT) basis for a period of 30 years. The total project cost is likely to be Rs 7,000 crores, which includes both generation and transmission part.
 
 He said the construction of the project would lead to all-round development of the area and would assist in the upliftment of socio-economic levels of the people living in and around the project area. The project activities also boost the development of new roads, bridges and other amenities like healthcare and education.
 
 In addition to this, a total of 269 Project Affected Families (PAFs) will get 30 units each of electricity free of cost every month. The project will usher an era of prosperity and development in the area and will certainly cement the bilateral ties of brotherhood among two traditionally friendly countries, said Sharma. 
 
 
