PANAJI: Chief minister Manohar   will start the third phase of his treatment in the US from Monday, town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai said here.

 “I spoke to him at length... he is keeping track of the state’s affairs and clued in to the happenings in Goa,” Sardesai said after the cabinet advisory committee (CAC) meeting on Tuesday.
 
 Parrikar, before leaving for the US for treatment, had set up the CAC to advise the government in his absence but retained all decision-making powers with himself.
 
 “Parrikar called us during the meeting. The chief minister sounded very positive,” Sardesai said. 
 
 The committee met to decide on the affidavit that the state will file in the high court of Bombay at Goa on Wednesday about the quantity of ore that has been extracted and that is lying inside and outside the mining leases.
 
 There have been various messages attributed to Parrikar about his illness circulating in the social media. Recently, the verified CMO Goa Facebook page had rubbished these rumours. “It has been observed that many messages are floating on social media, attributing it to the CM’s authorship,” it stated. “Such messages are not authentic and mischievous. All messages will be communicated directly by him or through his verified social media handles only.”
 
 Nilesh Cabral, BJP MLA from the mining belt of Curchorem, said Parrikar was responding well to the treatment. “I can assure you that he’s getting well and we only pray that he comes back fast. He will return to Goa as per the doctors’ advice,” he said.
 
 Cabral said in the past one and a half months, he has spoken “directly” to Parrikar at least seven times. “Even though he was tired, he has answered my call,” he said.
 
 Parrikar, who was diagnosed with pancreatitis, was admitted to Lilavati   in Mumbai on February 15. He was discharged after a week and returned to Goa to present the budget on February 21.
 
 After spending a couple of days at home, he was admitted to Goa Medical College and Hospital. Later, he was again admitted to Lilavati Hospital on March 5 and based on the advice of the Mumbai doctors, was taken to the US for advanced treatment.
 
 On Monday, a Congress delegation had met governor Mridula Sinha and demanded that the decisions taken by the cabinet adivsory committee be set aside as its formation was “unconstitutional”. They also sought regular updates on Parrikar’s   and convening of the assembly session at the earliest. The assembly session was adjourned on February 22 due to Parrikar’s ill-health.
 
 
