Kolkata traffic police, which took over the management of traffic in and around   four days ago, have ushered in several changes. 

 
  
  
 Apart from creating separate pedestrian and vehicle channels and opening up the approach from the station to BB   for vehicles headed towards Dalhousie and Howrah, the cops have also made some long term plans to ensure the   flyover and Beliaghata Main Road remain free of snarls. TOI takes stock of the situation. 
 
 
 
  According to Sealdah traffic guard, one of the recurring complaints at the station complex was about taxis. Not only did they refuse to go by meter, but they parked anywhere they pleased. Pedestrians and vehicles used the same approach near Sealdah court to access the station. The private taxi touts fleeced passengers and when attempts were made to set up an app-cab parking lane, it was deeply resented and the Railways was initially forced to scuttle their plans. At least six auto routes that start here added to the chaos. The cops have now created separate channels for pedestrians - both from Sealdah court and BB Ganguly Street sides. There are now five separate channels for vehicles - one each for pre-paid taxis, metered taxis, autos, app-cabs, general vehicles and VIP vehicles. "No vehicle will be allowed to park anywhere except inside the channels demarcated for public transport and designated parking lots. We will not allow vehicles coming to drop off or pick up passengers to wait near the VIP parking zone beyond a few minutes," said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar. An exclusive Ola parking lot is now fully operational on the premises. 
 
 
 
 
  The police took the help of   and   to remove hawkers blocking BB Ganguly Street next to the Sealdah flyover. Smaller vehicles headed west to Dalhousie and Howrah are being encouraged to use the road and reach Bowbazar directly, instead of using the flyover. "It is just the beginning. But in the next week, we will try to make the route popular. We will post sergeants at various points to help commut- ers use this road," said a Sealdah traffic official. 
 
  
 
  The police said they have blocked off the BR Singh Hospital bus stand in front of the station, insisting that all passengers have to get off from or board buses only from the Big Bazar side. "The passengers usually spill over and create traffic jams right at the Sealdah station exit. We have to ensure that buses do not block the station's exit under any condition," said Kumar. 
 
  
 
 
  The police claims that cars parked outside Sealdah court pose a major hindrance to vehicles entering the station complex. "We found that the basement of the building is unused. We have, hence, asked PWD to create a ramp so that we can create parking space inside the court complex. That should be more than enough space to accommodate all court-bound vehicles," said an officer. 
 
 
 
 RITES has submitted a proposal to improve the overall traffic movement around Sealdah station. While some recommendations, like creating a specific bus stand and a skywalk from the Rajabazar side to the station complex are doable, RITES has also called for razing of the Sealdah flyover all together. It has instead asked the civic agencies to create a new one with pillars so that the space below the flyover can be properly utilized. Another plan is to construct a flyover from the Sealdah station complex itself (in pic) that will branch out into three different directions — towards EM Bypass through Palmer Bazar and Canal South Road, towards Park Circus through Convent Road Bridge and Chitttaranjan Hospital, and towards Phoolbagan through Canal West Road .
 
 
