CHENNAI: To develop cuttingedge technology for modernisation of the maritime sector, work on setting up the National Technology Centre for Ports, Waterways & Coasts ( ) at IIT Madras’ satellite campus on   has begun. On Monday, minister for shipping Nitin Gadkari laid the foundation for the ₹70-crore institution under the Centre’s Sagarmala project.

 Conceived to empower the ‘Make in India’ initiative, it will function as the shipping ministry’s technology arm, providing technological support to ports, Inland Waterways Authority of India ( ) and other institutions.
 
 On the occasion, Gadkari said the port sector was creating lots of jobs, giving the economy a push. “In line with this we are planning port-led development. The focus areas will include   (SEZ), port-led clusters and industrial clusters.” The shipping ministry had earlier engaged 
  Madras as a consultant to set up an alternate channel for Haldia port (West Bengal).
 
 Gadkari said, “Due to the efforts of IIT-M, we are now saving ₹250 crore every year at Haldia port. I am confident IIT-M can give us new ideas and vision. The centre will provide an initial funding of ₹70 crore for the technology centre at IIT-M. It will be self-sustaining in three years.”
 
 To formalise the partnership, IIT-M director Bhaskar Ramamurthy signed a memorandum of understanding with the shipping ministry.
 
 Operating under IIT-M’s department of ocean engineering, NTCPWC will create capital equipment, capable manpower and build competencies to work on ten major projects in its first three years.
 
 The projects will involve development of a customisable 3D numerical Hydrodynamics and Siltation tool, development of an Autonomous Surface Vehicles (ASVs) for mapping marine environments and water quality, new concepts of pilesupported breakwater with berthing facility and controllability of ships in harbour and navigation channels.
 
 To reduce its carbon footprint, the shipping ministry plans to use methanol as a fuel for maritime transport.
 
