LUDHIANA: A day after the son of a police sub-inspector died due to suspected drug overdose in his car near   village, police said on Sunday that they had detained many of the youth’s friends and found that most of them had been hooked to drugs in the past. 

 Even as police questioned 23-year-old   Singh’s friends through the day, they rounded up “four-five suspects” too, said Ludhiana Rural senior superintendent of police (SSP) Surjeet Singh. At the time the body of Jivanjyot, son of sub-insepctor  , was found in his Ford Figo on Mullanpur-Sudhar road on Saturday morning, police had recovered an injection and a white-coloured powdered from his car.
 
 Gurmeet Singh is the station house officer (SHO) of Ludhiana’s Division VIII police station. The SSP said they were investigating into the case from all angles and had got some leads in the case too. He, however, refused to divulge the leads. 
 
 The SSP also refuted the claim of the father of deceased that he was not an addict. “The deceased had been gone to a deaddiction centre in Patiala to get medicine,” the SSP said. The SSP added that the recovery of a silver spoon, white powder and syringe from the car made it clear what was happening before Jivanjyot died. “The drug is mixed with water in the spoon, and then it is injected in the blood stream with the help of the syringe,” said another officer, who did not wish to be named. 
 
 Police said the fact that most friends of the deceased had been addicts raised suspicion of him dying of drug overdose, either by himself or by people who left him in the car. They added that there was a possibility that more than two people, including Jivanjyot, were presentin the car when the death happened. “It is possible there were two people with him,” said inspector  , the SHO of   police station.
 
 Polie are yet to procure the footage of CCTVs installed near the crime scene. “Most offices were closed as it was a Sunday today,” said the SHO. “We will get all footage by tomorrow.” 
 
 The SHO added that they were also checking the call details of the deceased, even though they were yet to recover his mobile phone. “We suspect the people who were with   might have taken the mobile phone with them or he might have thrown it on the road,” said a source among investigators.
 
 The SHO maintained that circumstantial evidence suggested that the deceased was murdered. “Everything will be clear once we get the post-mortem report,” he added. 
 
 
 
 Punjab Police sub-inspector Gurmeet Singh, father of the deceased, said his son was depressed and an insomniac, and had taken treatment for the two conditions from a psychiatrist, but he had never touched drugs. He added that those who killed Jivanjyot had left the drug paraphernalia to mislead police. “The killers have deliberately thrown syringe and powder in the car to divert the police. My son was not an addict; he has been killed. A board of doctors has conducted his post-mortem; we are now waiting for the report,” he added.
 
 
