YAVATMAL: A farmer committed suicide in Rajurwadi village of Ghatanji tehsil in Yavatmal district on Tuesday over unpaid debts due to crop losses after bollworm attack. His six-page suicide note holds Prime Minister   responsible for his suicide, and asks Union minister  , chief minister  , BJP MLA Raju Todsam and some others to take care of his family.

 Shankar Bhaorao Chayare (55), belonging to Gowari community, had attempted suicide by hanging from a tree on his farm on Tuesday morning, said sources, but the noose broke and he fell down. He then consumed pesticide and collapsed. He was rushed to the local GMC in critical condition where he breathed his last at 1.30pm.
 
 Chayare is survived by wife Alka (47), daughters   (19), Bhagyashree (18) and Dhanshree (17), and son Akash (14). Jayashree is studying in BSc-II, Bhagyashree in BA-II and Dhanshree in Std XII while Akash is studying in Std IX. The family owns 9 acre of barren land and owes Rs1.40 lakh to banks and private money lenders.
 
 Local sources said Chayare had been frustrated due to the attack of red bollworms on his cotton crop, and liabilities arising out of his children’s educational expenses and family obligations.
 
 Chayare’s suicide note blamed Prime Minister Narendra   for his plight, which forced him to commit suicide. He also mentioned Union minister Hansraj Ahir, CM Devendra Fadnavis and BJP MLA Raju Todsam and some others in his note, and requested them to help his family.
 
 The note says, “I am committing suicide due to the loan debts and Narendra Modi government is responsible for my suicide.”
 
 Chayare’s wife and children have decided not to claim the body, or perform his last rites unless a criminal offence is registered against Narendra Modi. They have also demanded Rs1 crore as compensation from the government.
 
 Meanwhile, government task force on farmers chairman Kishore Tiwari expressed grief over the suicide and conveyed his condolences to the family. Tiwari is scheduled to visit the village on Wednesday, and has assured all possible financial support to the family.
 
 Convener of Shetkari Nyaya Hak Andolan Samiti Devanand Pawar has also extended his support to the family, and said they would stand with the family to get their demands fulfilled.
 
 
