CHANDIGARH: As many as 10 city-based artists, from different walks of life now inhabit the newly-opened  , started by Chandigarh Lalit Kala Akademi recently to provide a place of work for the localised, national and international artists and architects at the  , Sector 19, Chandigarh. 

 The group of artists and architectural graduates have thus become the first batch of professional artists to inhabit the facility since its inauguration.
 
 Reflecting from their experience, while most of them feel at ease while working in the calm environment of the Le Corbusier Centre surrounded by trees, vast open ground on both sides, the flow of natural light through the large windows of the art studio stood out as the recurring feature being appreciated by the facility residents. Thus, complimenting the design and the formation of the studio, created to suit the needs of the artists at large. Speaking to TOI, Bhupinder Singh (27), a graduate in sculpting from the Government College of Arts, Sector 10 said, “This art studio has a very airy feel. It’s wide and open and is painted mostly in white which makes it easy on the eyes and makes it look pristine and fresh. Even though I have my own studio set-up in Mohali to work, but I cannot work there the way I can work here. The environment here is very conducive to work and is positive. Sometimes when you don't even feel like working, you can enjoy the nature outside and you automatically feel like working again. This kind of environment is not available anywhere else in the city. Hence, when this opened I applied to work here immediately.” 
 
 Senior professor Sumangal Roy, Government College of Art, Sculptor Department, said, “I am so glad that the place where Le Corbusier opened his first workshop has now been officially changed into a space for artists from different domains to sit and talk about art.”
 
 The artists highlighted that the need of such a space in the city was immense and this studio has now become a ‘temple’ for the city-based artists who want to come and work in a place of their own. “We have been provided with a clean environment and a clean studio space. We have been given tables, chairs and a canvas stand, with fans and lights. We also get clean drinking water along with tea and biscuits here,” said Anuradha  , a senior city-based painter. 
 
 Tandon added, “The greatest advantage of working here is that you get to see the work of other fellow artists which motivates you. Since different art forms like sculpting, painting, digital and graphics co-exist here under one roof, I got the chance to try my hand at clay modelling as well. This is a huge advantage for city-based artists.”
 
 Apart from the basic furniture, the studio is equipped with two graphic panting machines which cost Rs 3 lakh each, along with an Aqua Box and a heater. “These equipment are those which are only present in colleges and once the students graduate, they do not find a place to use them again as they are very expensive. But now they can use it here,” said Hardev, one of the visiting artists at the studio. The same machines are also available at Lucknow, Shantiniketan (Kolkata), Delhi, Bhopal, Mumbai and Baroda. 
 
 Eashan Chaufla (24), an architecture and design graduate from Rhode Island Design School USA, said, “I like that this place has a fusion and an osmosis of artists. Moreover, apart from being one of the best in the country, this studio can definitely be compared to numerous international art studios as well.”
 
 The artists can use the studio on the cost of Rs 100 per day for a period of two months. The applications for the next batch have also started. 
 
 
