Nagpur: Even after facing wrath for failure to probe the multi-crore scholarship scam since last three years, the Maharashtra government has failed to learn lessons. Monday was no different when it again came under fire for “not being serious” towards enquiring the scam.

 Expressing strong displeasure over respondents’ “non-cooperation” to the courts and even additional government pleader (AGP)  , a division bench comprising Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi sought chief secretary’s explanation in this regard within a week.
 
 “We feel that in such important matters, the state was unwilling to cooperate. Its officials are not visiting AGP’s office or residence for taking his instructions regarding the misappropriation of funds. The impression is given that only after PIL is filed and court’s directives, the government is unwillingly submitting the documents,” the judges tersely observed.
 
 The court’s censuring came while hearing a bunch of petitions by AAI Saraswati Bahuuddeshiya Mahila Vikas Sanstha and nine others through counsel Anand Parchure contending that SIT issued them recovery notices despite HC’s stay in several cases. After court’s notices to the respondents, including   and Special Assistance Department, the government filed a common reply clarifying that they were yet to receive SIT report and therefore, recoveries are not being effected.
 
 “The respondents are not in a position to show SIT had visited the petitioner’s college for probing the scam. Due to various irregularities and lapses, the very purpose of carrying out recovery if any, is defeated,” the judges stated. 
 
 In last hearing, the bench tersely observed that for over three years, the scholarship scam remained without proper investigation and proper application of mind. “Only wrong steps have been taken and this court has been approached by several institutes with various types of grievances. If there is any scholarship scam in reality, and the government is serious in the matter, it has to show its bona fides by placing on record proper affidavit. It hasn’t come on record till date,” the judges said.
 
 HC restores old PIL demanding probe into scam
 
 The HC recalled old PIL by Drushti Bahudeshiya Sanstha praying for a CBI probe into the multi-crore scam. The PIL (No 35/2015) was disposed of on July 14, 2016, after the government constituted SIT under Nagpur Police commissioner K Venkatesh. As no progress was made even after one and half years, the petitioner once again knocked court’s doors by filing two civil applications. It contended that SIT had probed only 13.45% colleges and failed to carry out any recovery so far. It said, the scam could be over Rs20,000 crore if all institutes are thoroughly probed. The court then reissued notices to respondents, including   and Special Assistance Department.
 
 
