PUDUCHERRY:   police on Monday arrested two people in connection with the murder of notorious rowdy Devadoss, 34, from Karikkalampakkam on Saturday, a day after he had come out on  . 

 The arrested were S Rajadurai alias Iyyanar and S Vinayagamoorthy, both hailing from Karikkalampakkam, who were sent to jail after being produced in a court. The two were involved in previous cases of attempt to murder and hurt.
 
 Senior superintendent of police (law and order)   told reporters on Monday that a detailed investigation revealed that previous enmity with another rowdy element over establishing their supremacy in a locality led to the crime. A police team laid separate traps leading to the arrest of the duo, she said, after which they confessed to murdering Devadoss.
 
 Devadoss was involved in several cases including murder, attempt to murder, robbery in Puducherry and TN and was sent to jail in 2016 under Explosives’ Substances Act. He was again arrested for not appearing at Mahe police station to sign when he was out on bail, when he encountered his rival Rajadurai in prison. Rajadurai was in prison for charges of assaulting a person.
 
 Apoorva Gupta said that Devadoss and Rajadurai had engaged in wordy duels in the first week of April this year, while coming face-to-face in the high-security prison. 
 
 Rajadurai bailed out on April 13 while Devadoss was released on bail on April 20. Learning of his rival’s release, Rajadurai and his aide Vinayagam hatched a plan to eliminate him. On spotting Devadoss on a motorcycle with his friend, the two chased them and knocked down the scooter, then attacked Devadoss with sharp weapons causing on the spot death . Devadoss’ friend managed to flee to safety.
 
 Police arrested the two and seized weapons , a motorcycle, mobile phones and blood-stained clothes from their possession. Gupta lauded the team led by SP (west) K Gunasegaran, inspectors Arumugam and Karthikeyan and sub-inspectors Ramesh, Kathiresan and   and others for nabbing the people involved in the crime.
 
 
