Vijayawada: Royal Enfield produces some of India’s most-loved motorcycles. The motorcycle brand, with its legions of followers, is one of the fastest growing   manufacturer in India. For decades, the company, which manufactures and sells bikes in the country and abroad, has charmed Indians. In Vijayawada though, it is a different story. 

 A large number of people who own these bikes, have   their motorcycles with silencers that produce a rhythmic and loud sound. The company, which follows set pollution norms, provides soft silencers when it sells a motorcycle. However, many unscrupulous owners, mostly youths, change the silencers soon after buying the motorcycle.
 
 Many city youths have customised their bikes, which produce sound that are way above pollution norms. Youths accelerating their bikes, and speeding through the city have become a headache for pedestrians and residents alike.
 
 Special shops selling customised silencers for motorcycles of Royal Enfield and other brands, have mushroomed. Though it is not permissible by law, silencers producing loud sound are much in demand as almost every Royal Enfield bike owner here customises his bike immediately after purchase. What makes matters worse is the gunshot-like sound the customised silencers produce.
 
 The sound is ear-piercing, and citizens say “it feels as if a bomb has exploded next to us”. Some miscreants, mostly students, love scaring pedestrians, and other motorists with the sudden and loud sound their bike produces.
 
 Deputy transport commissioner of Krishna district, E Meera Prasad, said they have noticed that youths are resorting to such illegal practices. 
 
 “They are not only causing sound pollution, but also scaring people, and disturbing traffic order. We have filed 16 cases for such violations, and seized the vehicles. We have also destroyed their noisy silencers, and released the vehicles only after they were fitted with their original silencer.”
 
 Meera Prasad also said that the department has identified some shops that sell customised silencers, and issued notices to them. “However, people are now buying their silencers on online portals, and going to a local mechanic to replace the original one,” he said. Deputy commissioner of police for traffic Kanti Rana Tata said that specific instructions have been given to the traffic police to act tough on violators.
 
 
