Nagpur: As many as 7,423 villages in Vidarbha are facing   at the start of summer and the situation could get worse as the sun starts blazing with full intensity in what is expected to be a relatively more severe summer this time. Of these water-scarce villages, 3,484 are in Nagpur revenue division and 3,939 in Amravati division.

 Officials in the two revenue divisions dealing with the situation said water crisis is more severe this time. This is reflected from the abysmally low storage in major reservoirs right from December, months before the advent of summer. This was because of a 23% shortfall in the rainfall last monsoon. While 955mm was expected, the region actually received 732mm of total rainfall last season causing the scarcity.
 
 With the deficient rains, reservoirs in the region had barely 30% of their storage capacity left by the end of March. Groundwater levels started receding fast and wells, bore-wells have dried up in many places. Water rationing is already being implemented in urban areas of Yavatmal, Akola and Buldhana. Washim is going through a worst crisis with its 510 villages depending on supplies through tankers daily.
 
 With agriculture drought-like situation declared in over 9,000 villages in Vidarbha, the drinking water scarcity is now bound to mount extra pressure on district administrations for the three months till the next monsoon arrives.
 
 Official sources said the government agencies have done an initial assessment and come out with a Rs170 crore plan to augment water supply through 12,000 works that include revamp of defunct tap water schemes, recharging, cleaning of wells, desilting of water bodies, acquiring private wells for public use, water supply though bullock carts in hamlets and by water tankers in 112 villages.
 
 With 1,153 villages in Nagpur district reeling under water paucity, guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule summoned an emergency meeting couple of days ago to sort out the crisis. Local MLAs and officials concerned were present. Except Gadchiroli, where the latest water situation is yet to be reviewed , all others in the region have a contingency plan ready.
 
 
