GAYA: A criminal case has been instituted against 1000 passengers of 13024 Gaya-Howrah Express for stone-pelting on Sealdah-Rajdhani Express on Monday night.

 At least six passengers were injured and four bogies of the train were damaged in the incident. The case was lodged on Tuesday on the basis of a written complaint made by Manpur station manager KK Tripathi.
 
 SP (rail) Ashok Kumar Singh said cases have been registered under sections 147,148,149,427 and 353 of the IPC. “Passengers have also been charged under sections 145,146,150,151 and 152 of the Railway Act. The case has been registered with the Gaya GRP. No arrest has so far been made in this connection.” said the rail SP.
 
 The FIR on 1000 passengers has, however drawn flak for making almost all passengers of the train accused in the case. Advocate Ashok Kumar said all passengers would not have indulged in stone- pelting. “Also, railways are aware of the identity of passengers who booked the tickets giving details of their name, address and contact numbers. Therefore, they cannot be put in the unknown category,” said Kumar.
 
 Giving a time line of the developments preceding the violence, general secretary of the Grand Chord Passengers’ Association Lalji Prasad said that 13024 was scheduled to leave Gaya station at 12.40 pm on Monday. The delay was announced in instalments and the train finally left Gaya station at 5.56pm and reached Manpur 11 minutes later at 6.07pm.
 
 At Manpur, the train was once again stopped without proper information. Manpur being a small station does not have the facility to take care of so many stranded passengers in the summer heat. Four hours later, a change in train’s route was announced and this sudden announcement irked the passengers triggering a violence. Post violence, the train’s original route was restored.
 
 Last year on September 22, a similar incident took place when a passenger train was allowed to proceed from the station and brought to a halt a few hundred meters away from the station for several hours. Irate passengers that time pulled out the crew, tied them with a pole and mercilessly thrashed the staff causing serious injury to the driver.
 
 Gaya station head Pavinesh Patel did not respond to calls made at his official number for a comment on the incident. 
 
 
