CHANDIGARH: Intermittent traffic snarls and jams for hours, dark parks that require lighting, trees with overgrown bushes that should have been pruned long time ago and littered garbage which should have been collected but is still scattered due to irresponsible staff. These are the issues which have been tormenting the   (RWA) of Sector 32 and they have now knocked the door of the  .

 The RWA committee discussed with TOI about the problem during a joint visit to Sector 32. The panel informed that they have voiced these concerns with the area councillor and authorities several times but no steps have been taken to resolve them till date.
 
 RWA had approached the Chandigarh administration informing them that the divider between Sector 32 and 46 that was shut at the inter-sectorial junction has been the culprit of the area turning into traffic bottleneck especially around the roundabout which is located near the market.
 
 The school buses of five institutes which traverse through the road where the divider has now been conjoined are now using the internal roads to commute which creates traffic chaos during morning and afternoon.
 
 C M Nayyar, senior vice president RWA pointed out that the trees and bushes need to be pruned so that the installed streetlights are not blocked by their wild growth. “We have raised the issue with the authorities several times as the residents who use walking path face lot of inconvenience during late hours,” he said.
 
 Indu Verma, general secretary RWA said that the dustbins which were installed in the parks have become food joints for the stray dogs due to which garbage is littered all over the parks. “The authorities should keep this menace in control and formulate steps to avoid it,” she stated.
 
 J R Garg, joint general secretary of RWA said that there is no community center in Sector 32 and the residents have to avail the facility of neighboring sectors.
 
 “It is the demand of senior citizens to have a community centre in the locality so that they can visit reading room and can play the indoor games for amusement but no decision has been taken on it,” he iterated.
 
 
