Kolkata: A recent decision by the Union home ministry has taken Kolkata Police’s Special Task Force — a specialised unit probing terror cases — by surprise.

 In an order dated February 28, National Investigation Agency has taken over the probe into the arrests of four members of Ansarullah Bangla Team (ABT), a proscribed terror organization in Bangladesh considered close to AQIS (Al Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent). STF had picked up the four — three of them Bangladeshi nationals — from Kolkata station on November 21 last year.
 
 STF sources said NIA had examined the three accused, but never mentioned taking over the case. “Though there is a provision that NIA can take over a probe under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act any time it feels like, we have even exhausted the maximum allowed period of 30 days of police remand of the accused. The central agency cannot question the accused in its custody any more. The questioning has to be completed in jail. Almost three months have passed since the arrests and we are at the fag end of the probe. More importantly, we were at a stage where we were planning to file the chargesheet at the earliest,” said an officer.
 
 Sources in STF wondered if the probe into another case — where it arrested five members of another banned Bangladeshi terror outfit, Jamaat-ul-Maujahideen, this February — would also be taken over by the NIA. The central agency was specifically named by Lalbazar when it said at least one of the five neo-JMB operatives was under NIA lens for four years but never got arrested.
 
 Sources from both agencies told TOI that STF in February had arrested one Paigambar Sk, a JMB operative who was under suspicion since the Khagragarh blast. “There was a suspicion that STF was in a hurry even though Paigambar had gave important information to probe agencies in 2014. NIA, which is probing the Khagragarh case, therefore, questioned Paigambar. STF stuck to its guns furnishing all evidence against him,” said a source.
 
 The NIA has denied that there was “any motive” behind taking over the case. “The STF has done good work. We will only take it forward (case RC11/2018/NIA/DELHI). This involves three Bangladeshi nationals trying to use Indian soil to create trouble in our neighbouring country, a case fit enough for us to take over. Finding motives in this will be unfortunate,” said an NIA official in Delhi.
 
 On November 21 last year, STF arrested two members of ABT identified as Samsad Mia and Rizaul Islam, both residents of Bangladesh. Their conduit Monotosh Dey, a resident of Basirhat, was also nabbed. Subsequently, one more Bangladeshi national, Umar Farukh, was arrested on November 28.
 
 
