KOLKATA: Bidhannagar Police on Saturday collected from Kolkata airport the arrival times of various flights between 4pm and 6pm on Friday to ostensibly check if the   in which chief minister   was travelling had been held up in the air for an unusual period.

 Mamata had expressed annoyance at the hold up. Officers from   had subsequently sought an explanation from IndiGo officials. The latter had attributed the nine-minute delay to congestion in the sky over the city due to maintenance work on the primary runway. The secondary runway that was in use can handle half the number of flights that can operate on the primary runway.
 
 “We have provided details of all flights that landed before the IndiGo flight from   that evening. In fact, most flights have longer delay times ranging from 30-60 minutes. The IndiGo flight was delayed by only nine minutes from the scheduled arrival time when compared with the departure time that was five minutes late. Otherwise, the delay is barely four minutes. We don’t consider it as delay. The flight may have arrived in Kolkata earlier due to multiple factors, including favorable tail wind, and was in sequence to land behind the flights that were slated earlier,” an airport official said.
 
 The IndiGo flight had to go around once before it was cleared for landing. “There is nothing unusual about a flight being asked to hover when multiple flights are converging at the airport,” the official of another airline said.
 
 Airport director   said all stakeholders were aware of the primary runway shutdown owing to routine maintenance work. “We did not have any diversions because pilots knew how long they were likely to be held up on reaching Kolkata,” he said.
 
 On the increase in the maintenance period from the usual two hours to nearly six on Friday evening, he explained that extensions were sought when it isn’t possible to complete a work. Various industry officials, including veteran pilots and executives, have rubbished a local Trinamool leader’s suggestion that the flight had operated on a different route to arrive at Kolkata airport. “There are no short cuts in the air,” an airline official added.
 
 
