MADURAI: Tamil Nadu director general of police T K Rajendran on Tuesday transferred the case registered by the Aruppukkottai taluk police against assistant professor   to the   (CB-CID). The case was registered on Monday based on a complaint filed by Devanga Arts College secretary R Ramasamy that   allegedly tried to lure girl students of the college at Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar district to do sexual favours for top officials in  . The college is affiliated to MKU.

 The Virudhunagar district police is continuing their investigation, a day after Nirmala was arrested from her house and taken to the Aruppukkottai all women police station.
 
 A police team led by additional deputy superintendent of police Mathi questioned Nirmala on Tuesday on the conversation she had with a group of four girl students on March 15. Police sources said the investigation was video recorded. The investigating teams also analysed the data on her mobile phones, which they had confiscated. 
 
 The sources said that although Nirmala has confessed to police that it was she who spoke to the girls, she reiterated that her intension was not to lure the girls to do sexual favours. Her message was taken in the wrong context, she told police. 
 
 On Tuesday evening, Nirmala was produced before the Virudhunagar judicial magistrate (I) K Mumtaj who ordered 12-day judicial custody, following which she was lodged in prison.
 
 Meanwhile, Madurai Kamaraj University withdrew the probe ordered by a five-member team appointed by the authorities on Monday. The same day, Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit, in his capacity as chancellor of MKU, also ordered a high-power, one-man inquiry by retired IAS officer R Santhanam. University vice-chancellor P P Chelladurai, who met the governor on Tuesday, issued a statement cancelling the university probe. He said the university will cooperate with the probe ordered by the governor.
 
 There had been opposition from several quarters to the MKU probe, including from the faculty and staff of the university. 
 
 
