MUMBAI: The world may have seen one of the finest long-distance runners achieve greatness and walk into sunset but the career of Great Britain's Mo Farah may look a little incomplete considering that the four-time Olympic Champion never set a world record.  , who is in Mumbai to commentate on the  , feels Mo is definitely not the greatest long distance runner in the world.

 Nerurkar, whose father was a Mumbaikar, and who has connections with the city through his relatives, feels that Mo's legacy is not complete without a world record. "The fact that Mo does not have a world record counts against him. I wouldn't say Mo is the greatest distance runner," said fellow Britisher Nerurkar, who himself was a 10,000m runner and marathoner in the 90s.
 
 Nerurkar, however, feels Mo's priorities were different. "You can compare Mo with Ethiopians   and   for his championship victories. But he did not set out like that. When he moved to the US to train along with  , the head of British Athletics' endurance programme, they thought really hard about winning gold in the big events, how to run 52 seconds for the last lap in the 10000m race. Mo never had the priority to see how fast he can run the 10000m," explains Nerurkar.
 
 
  
 
 He also feels that the Ethiopians, Gebrselassie and Bekele were way ahead of their times. "They set very tough records for Mo to break. Gebrselassie was running 12.39 for the 5000m 20 years ago. You can win the event these days by clocking the same time. Athletes should have been running much faster," says Nerurkar.
 
 Nerurkar is also disappointed that with Mo's retirement coupled with the fact that Diamond Leagues don't host the 5000m and 10000m events, could prove to be detrimental to athletics. "It is disappointing that more athletes are moving into marathon running. They are almost missing out on the steps towards marathon running. Track and field is suffering as a result and there are not enough stars. Mo was a clear exception. The distance events have suffered," says Nerurkar He explains: "Non Africans come into athletics through track and field. And if more athletes are going to run the marathon then the aspiring athletes will miss a role model. The world body, the  , should work closely with organisers of big track and field meets to change this. Every aspiring athlete looks to earn money and Diamond Leagues provide that. Haile and Kenenisa earned a fair bit of money running in the Golden Leagues (as it was called then)," said Nerurkar.
 
 But he is not surprised with the marathon boom. For an athlete who finished his career almost two decades ago, the shift towards marathon running was happening since the 1980s. "There was an indication in the late 80s that the marathon boom was really going strong. By 90s, you were wondering how long it would sustain. But 10 years later, one felt that marathon running would get more and more popular. But 15 years ago, when the Mumbai Marathon was first held, the boom hit Asia. In the last five years, the races have grown exponentially in China," says Nerurkar.
 
 But he feels there is a downside to the boom. He says the onus is on the world outside of East Africa to match them. "People are going to lose interest in watching mass participation sport if the country cannot produce elite athletes who can compete with the best Africans. "
 
