RAJKOT: “You don’t worry, just take the college exam and you will get the university degree.” This is what class XII passouts aspiring to become homeopath doctors were allegedly assured by Dr Amitabh Joshi, the dean of Saurashtra University’s homoeopathy department and principal of B A Dangar Homoeopathy College. 

 This has been stated in the probe committee’s report in the cash-for-admission scam. The students who paid the money were told take college’s preliminary exam but were not shown as SU students. They were given fake mark sheets of first-year homeopathy colleges affiliated to other universities outside   along with other forged documents.
 
 Whenever any genuine student left the college or failed, these students with fake mark sheets were then given admission. 
 
 Acting registrar Dhiren Pandya, who was member of the probe committee, said, “SU has permission to enroll 5% students of other universities. Each college has 100 seats of which they can allot five. If a student fails or leaves, the college can fill-up that position in second-year by enrolling the students of other universities.” 
 
 The probe committee examined the records from the year 2000 of the students who had been enrolled on the transfer certificates from other universities. It was found that till 2011, no students from the other university got the admission in any of the college affiliated to SU. Total 57 students enrolled in colleges affiliated with SU after 2011 who are currently pursuing the five-year course. The committee inquired with the universities of other states from where these students came on transfer certificates and found that there was no record of 41 of them with that. The committee is still to get the reports of three students from the universities and they suspect two of them have got admission on forged mark sheets.
 
 In a statement to the committee, Joshi said, “The university should have examined all documents and verified them properly.” The committee noted, “Joshi was aware of the scam even though he is holding the university administration responsible.”
 
 
 
 
 Rajkot: On Monday, the   (SU) has filed an offence with the cybercrime cell of the city police following suspicion that the scamsters had created fake email ids of Vinoba Bhave University and  . The committee had written to both these universities seeking information about certain students who had got admission using their fake mark sheets. On March 7, they got replies via emails that the students were genuine and the mark sheets were issued by the two universities. However, later it was found that the emails were sent through fake mail ids. Later, however, SU got emails from both the universities in which they declined having sent any such mails about students. 
 
 
 
 
 Rajkot:   member Dr Bharat Venkaria had last year lodged a complaint before the university administration regarding five students who had passed out with BHMS. It was found in the investigation of this complain that these five students had secured the admission in the third-year on the transfer certificate of some other university. “These five students wrote the supplementary exam which supposed to be taken only by those who fail. The examination department withheld their results on the grounds of incomplete term, but Dr. Joshi recommended that as per the rules of  , the five had completed the term and their results should be declared,” said Nehal Shukla. When the irregularity in admission of these five students was found, the administration decided to thoroughly investigate other such admissions. 
 
 
