MUMBAI: Maharashtra has 130 cooperative   that receive financial assistance from the government. By March 2017, they owed Rs 335 crore to the state in terms of share capital meant to be redeemed, the Comptroller and Auditor General’s report for 2017 has revealed.

 The state had extended a share capital worth Rs 1,806 crore to the mills, of which Rs 375 crore was due to be credited to the state by 2017. Only Rs 40 crore was credited though, the report said.
 
 Cooperative spinning mills are meant to promote self-reliance among cotton growers. Their members are mainly cotton farmers and the mills are meant to give their own members priority when it comes to purchasing cotton.
 
 A test-check of 10 functional   spinning mills by  , though, found that they had purchased 1,724 lakh kg of cotton during 2012-17 from within and outside the state “without giving priority to their own cotton grower members”.
 
 One of the mills had bought viscose from private parties outside Maharashtra and stopped procuring cotton, the CAG report found. In its response, the state’s cooperative and textiles department said these cooperative spinning mills did not have ginning facilities and could not procure cotton from their own members.
 
 The state has 280 cooperative spinning mills, of which 130 receive financial assistance from the government. Of these, only 66 are functioning, and merely seven had made profits in the past five years.
 
 The CAG report also found that a large number of cooperative mills are located in non-cotton-producing areas in violation of rules.
 
 According to the state’s rules, 70% of cooperative spinning mills were to be set up in cotton-producing areas. Solapur accounted for 40% of the 130 mills which receive state assistance, although it accounts for less than 1% of the area under cotton. While the Nagpur and   regions account for 77% of the area under cotton in the state, the regions had only 45% of the mills, said the CAG report.
 
 The report also found that the state recovered barely any dues from the mills that have been closed or liquidated. As many as 42 of the 130 cooperative spinning mills with a liability of Rs 295 crore were closed, deregistered or had gone under liquidation, the report said.
 
 
