BHOPAL: Hundreds of citizens took out a massive protest rally in   on Monday evening to join the nationwide outrage against   rape case. 

 They demanded capital punishment for rapists of an eight-year-old girl who was gang-raped and brutally murdered in Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir. The protesters, especially women, raised slogans like "Kill or we kill them".
 
 "What happened to the child has shamed the country and if we don't stand up now then we don't deserve to be called as humans. It is high time to tell Prime Minister   that either he should hang the rapists or we will do it ourselves," said   and several other protesters accompanying her. 
 
 The anger among the public was palpable as many young girls who participated in the rally were seen weeping. Many were shouting, "We don't want to live in a country where animals are safer than humans."
 
 "It gives me immense pain to see pictures of the girl. She was a budding flower and her rapists should be hanged in public. Why is our Prime Minister silent? I want to ask him if he can punish someone for killing a deer why cannot he hang her rapists," said   (27). Referring to people who have actually come and supported rapists, a retired civil servant Shyam Bohri said, "It is really tragic that rapists are being shielded due to political influence. The country is facing a creal crisis at the moment."
 
 "This protest is not only about holding candle vigil and showing solidarity with rape victims, but it is time we take a resolve that we will not let Prime Minister remain silent over horrific crimes like Kathua and Unnao rapes. He has to act on what he said," said a columnist  .
 
 "How can we remain silent on such a heinous crime inside a religious place. The most disturbing fact is that the Union government is still silent over it. We will not let government wait for another rape to happen, enough is enough," said Sister Divya of Benedictine Sisters Society Bhopal.
 
 Many pedestrians and commuters alighted from their buses to join the protest. Even buyers at a nearby mall decided to conclude their shopping and joined the rally. 
 
 U S Sharma from Vigyaan Sabha said, "Both the rapes have sounded alarm bells for Prime Minister because he has made tall promises to ensure safety of women." The rally which began at MP Nagar Zone-I consisted of men, women, young and old, children who carried placards, banners and candles demanding death sentence for rapists of both the victims. 
 
 The rally culminated at the Board office square.
 
 
