Nagpur: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has sounded the death knell to 94 cities in the country where pollution levels are not meeting the set standards. Topping the chart are Maharashtra with 17 cities and Uttar Pradesh with 15 cities. The board has pinned the blame on civic bodies for “not sharing responsibilities” to curb air pollution.

 “If civic bodies can provide clean water, why can’t they provide air,” CPCB questioned, while referring to the list of 94 cities and districts that was tabled in the Parliament earlier this month. Speaking exclusively to TOI, Dipankar Saha, additional director, head of Air Laboratory and Air Quality at CPCB analysed the data of cities which crossed dangerous PM10 and nitrogen dioxide (NO2) levels between 2011 and 2015.
 
 Based on the ambient air quality monitoring, the data of 22 ‘non-attainment’ states which have failed to meet the prescribed parameters was compiled by the board. “Any parameter which is not within the prescribed parameters for five consecutive years is referred to as non-attainment,” said Saha.
 
 The data reveals that NO2 levels were dangerously high in three districts in Maharashtra — Badlapur, Pune and Ulhasnagar. As per the World Health Organization (WHO), NO2 is a toxic gas which can lead to various respiratory ailments. 
 
 In Vidarbha, Nagpur, Akola, Amravati and Chandrapur are the most polluting cities.
 
 The board has blamed encroachments and haphazard parking for high NO2 emissions in urban areas. “Slower the traffic, higher the unburnt emissions, especially NO2 from vehicles. Local authorities are responsible for safeguarding environment and should ensure free movement of traffic to avoid toxic emissions,” said Saha.
 
 According to CPCB, unscientific disposal of solid waste has led to major air pollution in almost all 94 cities. “It is ridiculous that burning of solid waste has become a huge source of air pollution in almost all the cities. Local bodies, which are responsible for waste management, are allowing it to burn,” said Saha. 
 
 Out of the 94, there is not a single city which meets the standards for PM10. “Construction activities without mitigation measures and open burning are responsible for increasing PM10 levels. No measures are being taken to control the dust generated from construction,” said Saha.
 
 Based on this list, the board is preparing an action plan, added Saha. Recently, the environment ministry had released a draft of the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) which is estimated to cost Rs637 crore. 
 
 According to environmentalists, tacking air pollution should not just be restricted to urban areas. “Vehicular emissions, solid waste burning and other urban activities leading to air pollution needs to be controlled. But the board needs to go beyond city boundaries and the NCAP should focus on the big polluters which include industrial clusters and thermal power plants,” said Sunil Dahiya, clean air campaigner at Greenpeace India. He added that the NCAP should give time-bound targets to industries for installing less-polluting technologies.
 
 On April 10, Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor wrote to Union environment minister Harsh Vardhan stating that NCAP should have a detailed plan on reducing polluting levels in different sectors. “While the concept note provides solutions to reduce vehicular emissions, it unfortunately misses out on doing the same for the industrial sector,” he stated. 
 
 
