PUNE: The monsoon is days away and the   ( ) claims that it has done as much as is legally possible to repair dangerous buildings while admitting that owner-tenant disputes are hindering repairs in many structures.

 While there is nothing in the cantonment board statutes or in the Cantonment Act of 2006 providing for structural audits, the engineering department carries out inspections of structures both commercial and residential known to be unstable or have aged considerably. These inspections are generally carried out in the months immediately after the rains subside, and in the few months before the arrival of the monsoon.
 
 In such cases, the board, under Section 297 of the Cantonment Act, is required to send a notice to the lease-holder of the property after necessary inspections, instructing him to undertake repairs in the property concerned, subject to approval from the board of the refurbishment plans. Since September 2017, the PCB has sent eight notices to leaseholders, according to officials.
 
 “Those are notices which have been sent based on observations by our engineers. Further action on these notices is the prerogative of the leaseholders and the larger board,” a PCB official said.
 
 The board said that earlier notices have also been acted upon. “In these situations, the plans and their approval are very important. Over the last financial year, the board has approved about 30 renovation plans, and work has started on a few of them as well,” DN Yadav, PCB’s chief executive officer, said.
 
 He also concedes that for the unstable buildings stuck in litigation or in owner-tenant disputes, there can be little intervention. “That is the main problem. There are a number of disputes between the leaseholders and the tenants, which have escalated to civil litigation disputes, and even the police. So we cannot intervene where the court and the police have their say on the matter. There are also cases where the owner does not undertake repairs for various reasons. In cases we find that the situation is really dangerous and lives are endangered, we go out of our way to write to the owners again, imploring them to undertake repairs. While this may not spur the owners into action, people at least have some comfort that we are their side,” Yadav said.
 
 Those disputes often stem from the fact that the tenants, who have lived in the structures for generations, pay rents far below the Standard Table of Rent (STR). The tenants also tend to stay put in the structures which are centrally located in the city.
 
 The board members also expressed their frustration over the issue, saying that despite ample opportunities, the owners find excuses to not undertake repairs.
 
 “The owners will argue that the tenants do not pay as much rent as laid down in the STR, and that is why they have no motivation to undertake repairs. We implore them to apply to the board with their plans, but they rarely do. People in my ward have moved to areas like Kondhwa because the houses they were living in had become precarious,”  , vice-president of the PCB, said.
 
 Her ward includes the   area, which has a large number of such structures deemed unstable.
 
 
