PATNA: The attack on the cavalcade of chief minister Nitish Kumar during his visit to Buxar district’s Nandan panchayat last week was pre-planned. 

 Quite a few policemen and officials were hurt when a group of women, said to be dalits, stoned the VIP motorcade during the CM’s visit to the Dumraon subdivision’s panchayat as part of his Vikas Sameeksha Yatra on January 12. The state government has ordered a probe into the violence by Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor and Patna zone IG N H Khan.
 
 “The video footage, photographs and statement of local officials as well as that of the arrested villagers make it clear that it was not a spontaneous attack spawned by popular anger, but a pre-meditated criminal act,” said a state official in the know of the initial findings of the probe.
 
 According to sources, the arrested villagers have told interrogators that a meeting was held even a day before the CM’s visit to discuss the nitty-gritty of the attack.
 
 The probe has also taken note of the fact that the attack was executed from a point where the road had a curve due to which the vehicles in the cavalcade had to de-accelerate. Off the road on both sides are potato fields where huge quantity of big stones were found to have been stocked.
 
 “People were also pelting stones from their terraces, which shows that stones had been stored on terraces as well. All these requires planning,” a Buxar official told TOI over the phone on Tuesday.
 
 That the assailants intended to target the CM is clear from the voice in the video clips that prevents attackers from stoning policemen, said the Buxar official.
 
 The officials also sought to debunk the theory that the ugly protests had to do with the resentment among a section of Nandan villagers over the neglect of their ward by the local authorities while executing development schemes. “Both the wards of the village have electricity and piped water connections. The approach road has been readied in one ward and the construction of the approach road in the other ward is going on. This ‘neglect theory’ is bunkum,” said another official.
 
 The sources said the probe team was currently poring over the call detail records of the arrested people. “The commissioner and IG have been asked to probe if there was any political group or liquor mafia behind the attack,” the senior official said and recalled only days before the CM’s visit, police had seized liquor from Nandan.
 
 At least 28 people have been taken into custody and FIRs lodged against 99 named and 500 to 700 unnamed accused in connection with the violence. 
 
 
