After waiting for ages for the almighty to give him the green signal, actor   has finally taken the plunge into politics. However, by setting his eyes on the assembly election, the next one scheduled for the summer of 2021 in  , he looks like he is buying time to test the waters.

 The big question is – why will someone announce his entry into politics, but set a longer deadline for the actual launch. Can he keep up the excitement surrounding his entry for the next three to four years? Given his ‘Hindutva ideologies’ and   connections, perhaps he thinks midterm polls cannot be ruled out, say observers. There are more questions, than answers at present.
 
  
  
 
 For the lakhs of his fans, just the announcement of launch of a party and fielding of candidates in all 234 assembly segments in the state was enough to get them euphoric. It did not bother them that their ‘thalaivar’ is yet to name the party and spell out its policies. For the numerous die-hard fans of Rajinikanth, who lived a better part of their lives thriving on his one-liners in films, his statement of heralding “spiritual politics” was enough.
 
 The larger public, however, would surely look for more and better signals from him. But, that is not going to come in a hurry. Rajinikanth himself had dropped sufficient hints in his speech.
 
 “Until we form the party, there is no need for any of us, including me, to attack anyone. It is also not necessary to react to every political development until then,” he told fans on Sunday.
 
 Till his announcement, the general perception was that he missed the bus in 1996. But, despite the twodecade delay, he had kept his reach with the masses intact. His fans, though aged compared to the present day millennial generation, are spread far and wide. With J Jayalalithaa’s death and DMK leader M Karunanidhi retiring from politics, Rajinikanth and   see a potential space.
 
 Rajinikanth surely has a base to start his political wagon. But after his “even God cannot save Tamil Nadu” statement in 1996, he had largely confined his comments to non-political issues.
 
 “Spiritual politics is something that ( ) Gandhi had pursued and that is the path Rajinikanth will follow. There is no room for corruption, mistakes and crime in spiritual politics, which is different from religious path,” said political commentator and Gandhian movement leader  .
 
 “By making just an announcement, Rajinikanth has only kept his fans and sympathisers’ aspirations alive. But his plans to start a political party after three years in time for assembly election sounds little too far, given the present political flux in the state. Since the 1952 general elections, however, it has been seen that around 10% of non-committed voters from a larger percentage of undecided voters, have exhibited a tendency to vote for a new party or a personality until Vijayakant,” said political analyst, G Satymurthy. Beyond that, there is no reason for him to cut into vote share of other political parties. There is a lot of ifs & buts, with a threeyear time frame, he added.
 
