GURUGRAM: A 17-year-old boy was taken into custody on Saturday after he allegedly blackmailed a   by claiming to have an   of her. 

 The girl told police she was raped in August 2017 by one of the boy’s friends, a 25-year-old man, who made the video. After this man (name withheld to protect the identities of the two other minors) was arrested and sent to jail for another crime, the juvenile allegedly demanded money and threatened to make the video public. He has been sent to the observation home in Faridabad.
 
 Police said the 15-year-old girl was originally from UP and studied in a private school in the city. She met the 25-year-old in August 2017 on Facebook and they became friends. After some days, he allegedly called her to his room in a paying-guest accommodation near   where he raped her. He also made a video and allegedly threatened to kill her if she spoke to anyone about it.
 
 “I kept quiet out of fear. After a few days, he again forced me to have a physical relationship. When I refused, he threatened to make the video viral. He raped me repeatedly and also coerced me into giving him some money,” the girl told police in her complaint. The man stopped contacting her in December, and someone told her that he had been sent to   for some petty crime.
 
 But her troubles did not end there. In mid-January, the juvenile, who was friends with the man, called her and claimed that he had shared her video with him. He kept calling her and threatened to upload the video online and show it to her parents as well if she didn’t give him some money. The girl finally told her mother, and they filed a police complaint on Friday. She was taken to Civil Hospital for a medical examination, which confirmed rape.
 
 An FIR was registered against the man and his 17-year-old friend under sections 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of IPC and relevant sections of the POCSO Act on Saturday. The minor, who works as an office boy with a private firm, was then taken into detention.
 
 
 
