KOLKATA: The country’s first floating market in a metro will be unveiled by chief minister   in Patuli on Wednesday. An official said 114 boats will house the market on a 500-metre long and 60-metre wide  . It has been set up by the   (KMDA) for Rs 10 crore on the lines of the floating markets in Thailand.

 On Tuesday, 228 vendors, who will be rehabilitated and accommodated in the boats, were selected via a lottery process. The selected sellers, who have been doing business for more than 20 years, had stalls at the nearby VIP Patuli market that has been dismantled.
 
 Two sellers will sit on one boat, while customers will take a wooden pathway with several entry points to approach the sellers.
 
 There were mixed reactions among traders, though. While some said that they were hopeful that their business would be as usual in the new venue, some were apprehensive over getting customers. “I have been selling fish at Patuli market for the last 25 years. I think this is a good arrangement,” said Arati Sardar, who has been allotted boat 105B . She starts around 1am from her Canning residence to reach the market. Ramen Mondal and Krishnachandra Naskar, who have been given boats 94A and 102B respectively, said that they would “bank on the customers’ curiosity quotient and loyalty”.
 
 Local residents and those from Panchasayer, Santoshpur and Garfa, who used to visit the VIP Patuli market, were excited. “I think this floating market will be popular and will attract many,” said S K Mandal, a resident of Santoshpur, who had come to the spot with his wife and daughter on Tuesday to see how the floating market was looking like.
 
 “It looks good. The only thing that bothers me is that the water here is stagnant. The market needs to be maintained properly and a proper garbage collection procedure should be in place,” said Ashis Sanyal, a lcoal resident.
 
 There are certain concerns, though. “We are not used to boats, we do not know swimming. There is little chance to stand and interact with customers. With no customer allowed on the boat, I am worried how I can assure them of the quality of the product since they won’t be able to touch the products,” said Biltu Paik, a vegetable vendor and a resident of Bagha Jatin.
 
 Police said they were bothered about four issues — safety of the customers and sellers in case they fall in 8-ft deep water, absence of basic fire-fighting mechanism, structural strength of the pathways and absence of CCTVs. KMDA engineers at the site said lifebuoys and life jackets have been arranged from a Bangur facility and kept at the market office.
 
 
