Who says you only get sea shells on some picturesque sea shore? From colourful sea sponges to little snails that peep out of the sand, hidden rock crabs, pretty pink sea anemones and bright corals, there’s a whole world of   life out there. This is not a description of an island far away, these beautiful creatures exist right here, on the watery, concretised edge of Mumbai city. Nature lovers, out here, have been conducting walks on the shores of the city to create an awareness about the city’s habitats and issues that pose a threat to them..

  
 
  
  
 
 
 Headed by three marine enthusiasts, Pradip Patade, Abhishek Jamalabad and Siddharth Chakravarti, the groups take off to the shorelines of Mumbai —  , Girgaum  , Cuffe Parade, Walkeshwar, Haji Ali,   and Juhu, among other places. Says Pradip, “Our island city is home to so many sea creatures, which comes to fore when people go discovering them on the shores. Sometimes, they find Olive Ridley turtles getting washed ashore due to strong winds and currents in the monsoons. These days, however, you’ll come across gorgeous star fishes, feather stars, sea slugs (from the mollusc family) among others. Most people are not aware of this. What happens is we tend to walk on the beach and not on the lower areas (portions of the shore that gets exposed during extreme low tides). Walks are conducted according to the tide timings.”
 You’ll be surprised to see how many marine enthusiasts the city has, smiles Siddharth, an academic researcher. “Our first walk had only five participants. Now, we have to actually shut down registrations as you need a limited number on the walk. Once in it, the city sounds start to recede about 100 meters from the road. Standing there in solitude, look into tide pools and observing things is an intimate way to engage with marine life, rather than looking at it in an  . What’s under the surface suddenly becomes visible, and that’s the exciting part. The   plays an intrinsic part in the survival of the city, to realise that it needs a space of its own is the crux of the walk. It makes you think about the development that takes place along the coast, which can have a detriment effect on the waters,” he says.
 
 
 ‘
 
 
  
  
 
 It’s likely that you may not spot the creatures right away. Affirms Abhishek, a marine  : “It takes a bit of practice to start noticing marine life. We have had a lot of participants telling us that they never noticed marine life during their beach walks before. It just takes a little bit of skill and training to spot sea anemones and a variety of snails and crabs on sandy beaches.” 
 He reveals that rocky shores showcase a rich marine life. “At rocky shores such as Haji Ali, Marine Drive, Carter Road and a patch at Juhu Koliwada, the diversity of marine life is a lot greater — you see orange, pink and green corals, colourful marine worms, sponges (a type of primitive animal), tide pool fishes such as gobies, blennies and reef fish as well as snails and pistol shrimps,” he informs. More the merrier to conserve marine life The group of shore walkers document the activity, with participants contributing their own images and records of marine life. Adds Siddharth, “People are largely unaware of the richness of   that Mumbai’s marine areas still harbour. With new participants getting added with each walk, we hope to build a large network of people exploring and documenting the marine life. Conservation, especially in an urban region like Mumbai, is most effective when it involves people, who feel a personal connect with the subject. We hope to take that approach to try and protect the city’s remaining marine habitats.” 
 
 
 
