Nagpur: Renovation and beautification work is on at the SCZCC campus ahead of the Orange City Craft Mela which will be held here from January 12 to 21. In its 25th edition the event could not be held last year, that being the only break since its inception in 1991. 

 Giving details of the event to TOI, deputy director of the centre   said that the theme of the mela this year is village and efforts are on to give the centre that ambience.
 
 “We are sprucing up various huts and other features and the stage at our open air theatre ‘Muktangan’ will have a 3D backdrop. The walls at the entrance are also getting a facelift,” he said.
 
 An eclectic mix of art, folk forms, handicraft and food, the craft mela will have around 120 stalls displaying textiles and handicraft and 22 food stalls from various regions.
 
 “This year 30 national awardee artistes will be displaying their craftsmanship in artefacts and textile and   handicraft and handloom will for the first time be participating in this fair,” Patil said.
 
 The wooden furniture from Patiala will be another added attraction.
 
 Around 250 folk artistes from almost every state of India will be performing at 6.30pm at the  . “Behrupiyas, Kutchi ghodi and Bhapang of Rajasthan, Baazigars of   and animal mask dance of Odisha are the highlights this year,” Patil said.
 
 He added that on January 16 Sufi singer Pooja Gaitonde will perform and a special programme ‘Lavani cha saaj Marathi baaj’ will be staged by   and troupe on January 21. 
 
 The regular early morning musical Brahmanaad will be held at the centre on January 14. Violinist   will be the performer. The monthly talent hunt event ‘Mujhe Bhi Kuch Kehna Hai’ too will be staged during the festival.
 
  “We have kept that area free for this purpose and violinist Indrajeet Ghosh will be performing this month,” Patil informs. The monthly 
 
 talent hunt event ‘Mujhe Bhi Kuch Kehna Hai’ too will be held during the festival.
 
 With SCZCC being the venue for many food festivals last month, the officials at the centre are trying to curate something new and different for this festival. “It’s a big dilemma for us but in keeping with our policy of giving regional representation we have invited vendors who are regulars at such fairs,” Patil adds.
 
 ends
 
 
