AHMEDABAD: As   officers and employees went on a total strike on Wednesday, bank transactions worth Rs 7,500 crore were halted in a single day, according to estimates by banks. Bank employees at 47 public sector banks in Gujarat, called for a total strike for two days, ending Thursday, to protest the meagre 2% wage revision offered by the   (IBA).

 
 “Over two days, transactions worth an estimated Rs 15,000 crore across Gujarat will be halted, or Rs 7,500 crore per day. We hope our wage revision demands are accepted. If not, we will announce an indefinite strike,” said  , general secretary of the Mahagujarat Bank Employees Association (MGBEA).
 
 “The majority of transactions are made through cheques and a few are online transactions like NEFT or  . With banks remaining closed, credits of any of these transactions will not reflect,” he added.
 
 Bank employees held a protest rally from Induchacha Garden near Nehru Bridge to the Bank of Baroda office on Ashram Road, early on Wednesday morning. As these are the last two working days of the month, a slew of transactions are stuck, thus hampering business operations. Traders and small scale manufacturers are struggling to get their payments cleared to pay employees. “This is the time that processing salary cheques and even business payments have been stuck. If traders don’t get payments on time, they won’t be able to process payments for their employees in time. Moreover, many business transactions and payments take place on the last two days which have also been hampered,” said Jayendra Tanna, president of Gujarat Traders Federation. Exporters are also waiting for payments. “Foreign exchange transactions are stuck up as banks are not operational. Exporters usually get payments at the end of the month. Without clearance, the financial and operational cycle goes haywire,” said Jaimin Vasa, senior vice president of GCCI.
 
 Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) retailers are the impacted because most of their procurement is at the end of the month. “Most traders stock up at this time of the month. Even on Tuesday, bank officials refused to accept cheques for clearance as the banks would be shut for the next two days. If our payments are not made in time, it impacts our credibility,” said Chetan Shah, president of the Ahmedabad Consumer Goods Distributors’ Association.
 
 
