GURUGRAM: The   in Garhi-Harsaru, originally envisaged as an SEZ by the INLD government in 2003, has hit yet another roadblock, because of differences between the two stakeholders, with   Development Corporation ( ) not agreeing to the valuation of land at the proposed site asked by the land owner, Haryana State Industry and Infrastructure Development Corporation ( ). 

 The project, being developed under the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor, was earlier expected to be launched by the state government during the   celebrations in 2017. According to highly-placed sources within HSIIDC, DMICDC is expected to invest at least 50% of the land cost of the project, since the latter has a 51% stake in the joint venture, but the corporations are yet to come to a consensus over the price of the land under discussion. 
 
 “HSIIDC is facing a liquidity crunch, and expecting a good price for the land it sells DMICDC for the Global City project. But despite prolonged discussions, there hasn’t been any consensus on the price between the partners, which has put the project behind schedule,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity. 
 
 In 2003, the INLD government had acquired 1,383 acres in HSIIDC’s account for the SEZ project. In 2006, it was transferred by the then Congress government to Reliance, which eventually backed out in 2014. In 2016, the   government announced the Global City project on the same land, in association with a Japanese player and DMICDC. The final plan puts land requirement for the project to nearly 1,000 acres, requiring DMICDC to buy nearly 500 acres from HSIIDC.
 
 Interestingly, HSIIDC had recently announced that it would be auctioning 100 acres it had earlier acquired for the Global City project. Bids were invited for 20 acres in the first round of several projected auctions. Sources said the auction was actually a price discovery bid by HSIIDC, since it does not have an idea of the current land price in the area. Once bidding started, the HSIIDC MD held the right to cancel it without giving any reasons. Unfortunately, the 20 acre plot did n’t receive a single bid.
 
 
