NAGPUR: Assistant PI   (44), his writer   (39), driver Sachin Bhajbhuje, and four informers, Sachin Padgilwar, Ravi Machewar, Gajanan Mungne and Prakash Wasnik, were booked for dacoity, criminal conspiracy, and destruction of evidence by Nandanvan police on Friday. The Rs2.54 crore cash stolen by them from a seized vehicle was recovered by the police on Thursday.

 API Sonwane, Wadekar and Bhajbhuje were posted with Nandanvan police station, and are now lodged in the same lock-up. A departmental enquiry has also been instituted against sub-inspector Krushna Sonule of Nandanvan police station. Further investigations in the case will be conducted by Senior PI Shailesh Sankhe of Ajni police station. 
 
 Wadekar and Bhajbhuje have already been suspended, informed Zonal DCP Nilesh Bharne while addressing a press conference at Nandanvan police station after the arrests. Sonwane and the two other cops were already being quizzed at the police station for the last couple of days, and were arrested on Friday.
 
 All the seven accused were sent to custody remand of Nandanvan police till May 11 by the court. While recovering the Rs2.52 crore, cops also seized the car used in the offence. Another Rs2.10 lakh, which had been spent by the seven on food, lodging and shopping at different places in the state including Mahabaleshwar, is yet to be accounted for.
 
 Crime branch and Nandanvan police, with the help of their Satara counterparts, had nabbed the four informers, Machewar, Padgilwar, Mungne and Wasnik, from a hotel at Mahabaleshwar on Wednesday. The four were brought to the city on Thursday, and an offence registered against them on a complaint from businessman Ali Hussain Jivani.
 
 The developments have put to rest speculation regarding the role of policemen in the cash seizure in the early hours of April 29, when the Duster (MH-31-FA-4611) had been intercepted at Prajapati Chowk by PSI Sonule and his team. It’s reliably learnt that API Sonwane, who was in-charge of Nandanvan police chowky, had tipped off Sonule to intercept the Duster coming from Raipur. The car, which had concealed chambers under the carpet, was carrying around Rs5.73 crore cash.
 
 After the interception, PSI Sonule had returned to Nandanvan police station in his vehicle with the driver and cleaner, Rajesh Mendhe and Navneet Jain respectively, who had been travelling in the Duster. The intercepted vehicle had been handed over to Mungne and Machewar, both of whom have crime records, by Sonule for unknown reasons.
 
 The car with the cash was taken to Wathoda by Mungne and Machewar, where they opened the concealed chambers to take out around Rs2.54 crore. The cash was transferred to Padgilwar’s Ertiga car, after which Mungne took the Duster to Nandanvan police station.
 
 PSI Sonule, despite the delay of around an hour, did not alert seniors or the control room regarding the Duster car taken away by the two police informers, Machewar and Mungne, from his possession. Later, Sonule had shown the remaining Rs3.18 crore seized to PI MN Nalawade and other seniors.
 
 Police said Mungne and Machewar later took the Ertiga car to Bhisi village in Chimur taluka of Chandrapur district. Around Rs2.50 crore were kept at Mungne’s ancestral house at Bhisi village with his father, from where the police recovered the amount.
 
 Mungne and Machewar had then returned to the city to pick up Padgilwar and Wasnik from   before fleeing towards  , from where they went to Aurangabad, Solapur, Kolhapur and then Mahabaleshwar, where they were nabbed.
 
 Zonal DCP Bharne said Manish Khandelwal had first claimed that Rs2.54 crore belonging to Maple Jewellers was missing, and later submitted an application, before Jiwani filed the FIR.
 
 
