After spending Rs 125 crore to build the visitors centres at the iconic   and Ellora caves, the   ( ) does not have money to keep them lit up.

 The two visitors centres have been functioning without electricity from November 2017 and now stand to lose their electricity meters too. The notice period of permanent disconnection warning issued by the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Corporation Limited (MSEDCL) has ended.
 
 
 The MTDC owes Rs 48.40 lakh for power supply to the Ajanta tourist facility centre and another Rs 47.92 lakh for the Ellora centre. The power utility had disconnected supply once in July last year but resumed the supply after assurance from MTDC.
 
 MSEDCL officials maintained that unless the MTDC clears its dues, power supply will not be resumed. The person who bagged the contract to run these centres has long dubbed these structures as white elephants. They have already closed the doors for visitors and put sent the staff on furlough.
 
 The MTDC officials admitted that they have no money at their disposal to foot the MSEDCL bill and that they have sought a government assistance of Rs 7 crore in March 2017 to meet the electricity bill.
 
 MSEDCL joint managing director   told  , “The outstanding for the two connections have crossed Rs 96 lakh. The supply was snapped on November 17, 2017. This was followed by a permanent disconnection notice in December. Nothing has been done so far by the authorities concerned.”
 
 Echoing Bakoria, Aurangabad MSEDCL chief engineer   said, “Any time now, we will remove the electricity meters.”
 
 The MTDC spent Rs 125 crore on the two thermocol-based replicas of the Ajanta visitors centre and Ellora visitors centre that were aimed at reducing the burden on the original caves and allow curious tourists take a closer look at paintings and sculptures.
 
 When contacted, MTDC incharge regional director   said, “We have requested the headquarters to release funds to meeting the expenses, including for paying the outstanding power bills. But so far, nothing has been done.”
 
