The next time you walk into a place and spot people sitting around a table with brushes in one hand and beverages in the other and soothing music playing in the background, don’t be confused. This is exactly what a painting party looks like.
The trend, wherein people gather to catch up and also paint the canvas under the guidance of an  , has picked up in the city. “Painting parties are basically just like regular parties where people meet and catch up with friends. The only difference is here, you do that whilst engaging in a creative activity. The joy of creating something is what draws people to these parties,” informs Debasree Dey, founder of the   in the city.
 
  also double up as events where new friendships are made and hidden talents are discovered. People who’ve been a part of these activities swear that they are perfect for a girl’s night out, date night or just chilling with friends. “Painting is a great medium of expression. Nowadays, people don’t get much time to be creative and these parties help them with that. It is a great bonding exercise; you can call is social artworking,” says Jinny Bhatia, founder of Master Strokes.
 
 
  
 At the party, the painting is pre-selected by the instructor and a step-by-step guide is provided to help people paint. “We hold various theme-based activities like sequence painting, where every participant has to paint a part of a jigsaw puzzle or a musical chair painting party, where, when the music stops, one has to continue the painting of the participant who was previously sitting on the chair,” shares Ruchi Mehta, founder of  . 
 
 The instructor guides the class with the basic strokes and outlines as every participant follows and inserts details into his or her painting. “These painting parties are meant for everyone and not just artists. People may feel intimidated at first, but once they attend a party, they get the confidence that they can paint. We have had painters of all ages, from 4 to 60, coming and having fun,” adds Debasree.
 
 
  
 
 Varun Dhoot, an entrepreneur who took part in painting party recently with his wife, was thrilled with the end result of his painting. “We had arranged this for 10-11 couples who could paint together and it turned out to be a great bonding activity. I would definitely take part in such parties again,” he says.
 
 —
 
 
