INDORE: Bringing   almost to a standstill, advocates at the   and district and sessions court along with the entire state abstained from work for the first day of the week-long protest seeking implementation of Advocates Protection Act. 

 On Monday, the court premises bore a deserted look since litigants ran from pillar to post to find out the details and the next date of their cases. 
 
  “Indore district bar association members was on strike on Monday on the call of state bar council. We have submitted a memorandum addressed to chief minister regarding our demands to divisional commissioner,” Indore district court bar association president advocate Dinesh Pandey said.
 
 At high court too the litigants appeared in some cases and most of them were adjourned by the court. Also, some advocates appeared before the court standing against the state bar council’s declaration.
 
 “Today a few advocates, including me, appeared in our cases since many   guidelines and order state that a person cannot be forced to go on a strike without his will. I hope in the coming days the number of advocates appearing would increase,” advocate Vivek Dalal said. 
 
 A press release was also issued by   high court registrar general urging advocates to resume work. It also asked the petitioners to appear before the court in their cases wherever possible. The release by the high court said that 960 hours of judicial work at the high court and 40,000 hours in the lower courts will be lost if the advocates continue their strike throughout the week.
 
 The registrar general in the press release also said that the high court was taking steps towards resolving issues under their jurisdiction. This press release was also submitted before the principal bench of high court in a petition challenging the state bar council’s decision to abstain from work for a week. The bench of Chief Justice heard the petition and reserved order. 
 
 On the other hand, a meeting of representatives of bar associations from across the state was also held, in which the decision was taken to continue the strike. However, the authority to take further decision regarding the strike was given individually to state bar council’s president Shivendra Upadhyay.
 
 
