Learning with the Times: Here we bring you a new concept every time which is explained in detail for every beginner.

 
 
 
 Vasco da Gama’s discovery of the sea route to India opened up a market for the highly profitable spice trade that Europe’s traders wanted to be a part of. But the business was risky and required huge investment. That led to the idea of joint stock companies and the Dutch East India Company was born. It raised money by selling its shares to public in a stock exchange and became the world’s first listed public company.
 
 
 
 In India, the concept of incorporated companies and share trading started in the 1840s. Initially, it was facilitated by unregistered brokers leading to India’s first   boom and bust that coincided with the American Civil War (1861-1865). The boom was triggered by cotton stocks following disruption of supplies to Britain from the US. India’s first stock market — Bombay Stock Exchange ( ) — was established in 1875. Its famous barometer,  , was launched in 1986.
 
  
 
 
 The index facilitates comparison of present day share prices with the past to show how the market is moving. 1978-79 is Sensex’s base year. This means the index’s value was equated to 100 for that year. After fixing the base year, market capitalisation — price of individual shares multiplied by total number of shares in the issue — was calculated. The present value is arrived at by calculating present market capitalisation and dividing it by the base year’s market capitalisation, which is then multiplied by the base index value — 100 in this case. On domestic market capitalisation, BSE is the world’s 11th largest stock exchange.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Not necessarily because most companies have a dominant shareholder — government or a promoting group/ business family and hence, these shares are never traded in the market. Sensex is also adjusted for free float market capitalisation value meaning it’s calculated on the basis of publicly traded shares. Thus, a big company with large market capitalisation and few publicly traded shares cannot influence the index.
 
  
  
 
 No. Only 30 scrips are selected whose market caps are used to calculate the Sensex’s value. This is to have balanced representation of listed companies. Other indices like BSE 100 and BSE 200 include a higher number of scrips. In terms of number of listed companies, BSE is the world’s largest stock exchange.
 
 
 
 No. Even during a crash some stocks may not fall. For instance, on February 9, the market fell about 407 points. There were 2,910 stocks traded that day. Among them, 1,369 (40%) advanced, 1,403 (48%) declined and 138 (about 5%) remained unchanged.
 
 
 
 A crash can wipe out millions in stock value in seconds. Analysis of 11 years’ data for major markets shows that most (except Shanghai) witnessed their biggest crash in 2008.
 
  
  
