NEW DELHI: The   ( ) and the   ( ) have been served a legal notice by the law firm A BON DROIT on behalf of their clients Mohammad Bobby and Gaurav Kumar after the two gymnasts were ignored for the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games selection. Supreme Court lawyer Sameer Sharma, representing Bobby and Gaurav, sent the notice on Friday.

 
 In the notice, advocate Sharma accused GFI of adopting a selection criteria which was “highly arbitrary, surpassing all norms of fair play, natural justice, equity and established results”.
 
 “Our firm, as lawyers, sent legal intimation to the FIG (gymnastics’ international body) Switzerland and also spoke to Mr Loic from the FIG. Loic was kind enough to apprise us that you, the GFI, have sent “undated” and “unsigned” forms to FIG for both our clients, Bobby and Gaurav. Also, you sent illegible passport copy of our client Mohammad Bobby to the FIG. These are extremely serious and intentional errors, deliberately done because your nefarious interests were not being served,” the notice read.
 
 “With this legal notice, you (GFI) are hereby informed that either within three hours of receipt of this legal notice, through email and forthwith after receiving a speed post copy, you send a fresh form of both Bobby and Gaurav to the FIG which should be duly dated, signed by your president or secretary along with legible true copies of passports of both our clients.
 
 “This is the last option to mend your errs, failing which we shall be constrained to initiate civil and criminal proceedings against GFI and its management for offences of criminal breach of trust, criminal conspiracy, furnishing wrong information to public servant and more and for which the GFI shall be solely responsible. We shall also be initiating dialogue with FIG in consonance with the sports ministry to get you de-registered with the FIG,” the notice said.
 
 To the IOA, the law firm alleged that the sports body is allowing one Dipak Kabra, supposedly a chartered accountant by profession and allegedly working, inter alia, for the GFI, to travel with the team to the CWG. “In the event of allowing Kabra to go along with the team, IOA shall be liable for apposite civil action besides being criminally responsible under section 120B of the IPC for the offence of being a co-conspirator. In the event of Kabra joining the team for the CWG, we shall be constrained to initiate legal action which shall be at your cost, risk and responsibility,” the notice said.
 
 The notice alleged that during the selection trials held from February 12 to 14 here, Yogeshwar Singh stood fourth with 75.10 points while Rakesh Patra was ranked 25th with 40.60 points. Ashish Kumar topped the trials, followed by Bobby finishing second and Gaurav third.
 
 "…but for reasons and interests more clearly known to you (GFI), you opted to select and recommend Ashish, Patra and Yogeshwar for the CWG. It has come to notice of our clients (Bobby and Gaurav) that since both of our clients belong to economically weaker section of society and also from minority communities, thus the management of GFI is not inclined to support them for upcoming CWG,” the notice added.
 
