PANAJI: Power minister   said the department will shortly set-up an enforcement cell to exclusively investigate complaints of power theft.

 Speaking to TOI,   said power theft cases were not dealt with seriously in the past. “We have moved a proposal to the government to set-up an independent enforcement cell,” he said.
 
 If any staff of the department is found issuing an illegal power connection, he or she will not be spared, he said. 
 
 In a recent incident, four junior engineers attached to the   division were suspended for giving an illegal electricity connection in Arambol.
 
 Madkaikar said inspections are being conducted on regular basis to check anomalies. We are closely monitoring the coastal belt as we suspect more power thefts are happening there, he said.
 
 He said anyone desiring to have a temporary connection, even if it meant for a day or two, can be issued one only after a temporary meter is installed. “There is a provision to issue a temporary connection, but the due process of law has to be followed,” the power minister said. A consumer pays a higher tariff for a temporary connection. To avoid paying a higher tariff there is a tendency to obtain a direct connection with the help of a local junior engineer or an officer above him, the minister said.
 
 “If the department doesn’t have a meter, the applicant may buy it directly from the market,” he said. “A direct connection not only leads to loss of revenue, but is also dangerous. It can cause an accident. What if someone is electrocuted due to the direct line,” said Madkaikar.
 
 The power minister said at times even he receives requests for direct connections, but he doesn’t consider them. “Neither me nor any electricity department engineer has powers to give a direct connection. Connection has to be issued upon installation of a meter and by following the due process of law,” said Madkaikar. 
 
 He said the department’s current deficit is Rs 160 crore. There are 60,000 faulty meters, but the department doesn’t have meters to replace them.
 
 “If the faulty meters are replaced, the revenue loss can be arrested. Work orders for purchase of new digital meters will be issued next week,” Madkaikar said.
 
 
