NAGPUR: Circumstances have once again brought   and Hospital (IGGMCH) at the crossroads. If the state government doesn’t take immediate measures to fill the vacant posts and install MRI and CAT scan machines, the   could lose recognition for the 150 MBBS seats.

 In fact, the college could also lose postgraduate seats in radiology if the two radio-diagnostic machines are not installed at the earliest.
 
 College dean Dr Anuradha Shrikhande raised the issue with chief minister   on Sunday during a function. The CM assured that he would not let the college lose recognition as well as PG seats. But this is very easily said than done. Such promises earlier have not helped the college in any way. The college has certain major deficiencies which, if not removed before the forthcoming inspection of the   (MCI), will cost the college big.
 
 MCI has written a letter to the IGGMCH that the college stands to lose recognition for 150 seats if all the norms are not followed during the next inspection. Major infrastructural deficiencies include absence of MRI and CAT scan machines. “College has got administrative approval for the two machines but there have been no budgetary provisions for procuring them until now. MCI has been relaxing the terms for many years and now the college needs to install them,” said Dr Shrikhande.
 
 MCI has also projected a deficiency of 10.6% of teachers in its latest letter, whereas it allows a deficiency of only 5% for recognition. Physiology department is headless (no professor) since the medical education department transferred its head to Gondia GMCH from where the professor ultimately landed up in the Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur.
 
 The college needs to create nine posts of teachers urgently and fill them. These include one post of associate professor each in surgery and orthopaedics and seven posts of assistant professors (lecturers). The lecturers’ posts include two each in surgery, anaesthesia and orthopaedics and one in medicine.
 
 There are no posts of tutors in any of the GMCHs in the state but as per MCI requirement, college needs to create 30 posts in preclinical and para-clinical subjects. Rerouting posts from clinical subjects to these subjects may also help.
 
 Since the college does not have MRI and CAT scan, it cannot get the two seats in post-graduation in radiology. The college also has a deficiency of a   and an X-ray machine. The administrative approval for these has come quite some time back but money for the procurement has not been released yet.
 
 The IGGMCH also needs to re-do some of its laboratories and teaching rooms. The construction plan has these rooms in the administrative building. But despite administrative approval, there is no provision of money for the Rs77 crore building which will house them.
 
 
