Ludhiana: Demanding changes in the existing policy for regularization of illegal colonies, builders met cabinet minister Tript Rajinder Singh Bajwa on Thursday to object to a condition in the policy that builders who had applied in previous policies, and their application was rejected or pending would have to apply again. Meanwhile, not even a single application has been received by the municipal corporation or Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada), though only ten days have passed since the present government came out with a new policy in this regard.

 Members of Punjab Colonisers and Builders Association (PCBA) met the minister on Thursday for raising their issues. PCBA senior vice-president Gulshan Kumar said there were around 6,500 applications of builders pending with the government. These builders had applied after a policy was issued in 2013, and most colonies were developed between 1995 and 2013.
 
 He said they had conveyed to the minister that it was not justified for the government to ask these builders to apply again, because they were already punished by the government for developing illegal colonies, and FIRs were registered against them. He added: “Moreover, the government in its new policy of 2018, has kept a condition that plot-holders, in the form of a residents’ welfare association, can also come forward for the regularization of colonies in case builders do not come forward. We are against this, because it is not justified to penalize plot-holders.”
 
 He said they had told the minister that if builders or residents went to the high court, then the government would be in a tight spot, so they should reconsider their decision. He said the minister had then given them 10 days time to come forward on a single platform with their common demands, after which he would decide about the issue.
 
 Meanwhile, Glada and MC officials are waiting for builders and individuals to come forward for regularization, but not a single application has come so far. Officials claimed people were not coming even with queries, but as four months time has been given for submission of applications, they said they would have to wait for some more time for people to come forward.
 
 
