KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court scrutiny of the West Bengal Medical Council’s decision (WBMC) in the Sanjay Ray case may now lead to a more careful handling of similar cases in future.

 A large section of the medical fraternity is happy with the judicial scrutiny and the fact that the council’s decision to cancel the registration of two Apollo   doctors was rapped. A section of the WBMC, which was not comfortable with the suspension of licences, felt the case should have been handled in a more professional way.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “Punish a doctor if he or she is really guilty of medical negligence but the medical council should come out with absolute and concrete reasons that will convince everyone. Unfortunately, this has not been the case,” said Dr Arindam Biswas, consultant (internal medicine).
 
 On Friday, the Calcutta High Court stayed for two months the medical council’s verdict of cancelling the licences of Dr   and Dr   for one year and six months, respectively. The court also observed that WBMC cannot form committees, one after the other, to come up with a result that it seeks.
 
 The two accused Apollo doctors had to face two inquiry committees at the WBMC. The first committee had given them a clean chit after which the council formed a special committee to reinvestigate. This second committee held the two doctors of medical negligence. “Why did the council have to dismiss the report by its own penal and ethical committee and go for the opinion of a special committee that had many doctors who are not even council members? Does it mean that it does not have faith in its own committee? The council should be wiser after this High Court order,” said a council insider.
 
 “This particular case should serve as an eye-opener for all of us in the council. In future, we should desist from taking a decision that will tarnish the credibility of the council,” said WBMC member.
 
 “We look up to the medical council and they should act in a more professional way so that trust stays. It is alright to penalize a doctor, but it should be done after establishing the charges in the an appropriate manner,” said plastic and reconstructive surgeon Dr  .
 
 The medical fraternity feels the medical council should not have a political agenda or get swayed by public perception or how sensational the case was.
 
 “First of all, a body like the medical council should stay away from politics. Secondly, this particular case has been handled in a very unprofessional way. The patient died at SSKM Hospital and not at Apollo. Why was no probe conducted to find out the circumstances under which the patient died at SSKM?” asked Dr Rezaul Karim, president of the West Bengal Doctors’ Forum.
 
