GAYA: Women medicos studying in   and Hospital (ANMMCH) have registered a complaint against the poor law and order situation on the campus and lack of basic amenities. 

 
 Private security guards engaged by the college management are hardly caring as hooligans roam freely on the campus. Most of the toilets on the hospital premises are stinky, dirty and unhygienic with broken doors and windows, alleged the girl students.
 
 The students also demonstrated outside the principal’s chamber last Saturday. Apart from the security of girls, the four-decade old hostel building has also become dilapidated, posing threat to safety of students. Students claimed that they have to share dingy rooms with four inmates and the ceilings of most of the rooms are leaking.
 
 In the absence of a proper boundary wall, it was free for all and stray cattle, dogs and pigs can be seen anywhere and everywhere. A group of male students also visited the local office of the building construction department here on Monday to register a complaint regarding the dilapidated condition of hostel and lack of boundary wall.
 
 A girl student told this newspaper wishing anonymity that even assurances given by the Magadh divisional commissioner and Gaya district magistrate in an interactive session on August 11, 2016 have not been fulfilled. 
 
 Magadh divisional commissioner  , who is the ex officio chief of the ‘Rogi Kalyan Samiti’ said the issue was never brought to his notice. “We will take effective steps to address the concerns of the medicos,” said  .
 
 ANMMCH principal Dr   on the other hand said the main complaint of the students pertained to simultaneous burning of two transformers have led to acute water crisis and most of them are spending sleepless nights in absence of power. “Repair work is carried in toilets as and when information reaches college authorities,” he said.
 
 Dismissing the harassment charge, the principal said that charges of stalking of girls is false. “As the college and the hospital are located on the same premises, attendants sometimes stray into teaching and hostel areas and girls feel insecure about it,” said Mahto.
 
 “The hostel was designed to accommodate only 50 medicos. About six years back, the MCI doubled the intake but there was no expansion of the infrastructure. Work is going on for the expansion of the existing infrastructure,” said Mahto. 
 
 
