CHANDIGARH: In the wake of criticism a major reshuffling at various police stations and of the posts of SHOs is expected in the coming days. Senior officers have indicated that this time the city would see unexpected reshuffling of SHOs and other police officers in police stations. For the first time in the history of   police, sub-inspectors of the UT police force would be posted as a Station House Officers (SHO) in police stations in future.

 Sources in the police department told that lowerranked officers would be given the charge of SHOs in some police stations. Sub-inspector ranked officers would be appointed as SHOs in at least five police stations on city. The list of reshuffling has been expected to be out in a day or two.
 
 Failing to control the crime rate, especially snatchings, senior officers are not in a mood to spare non performing SHOs of police stations. A very senior cop hinted that five sub-inspectors would be deployed as a SHOs in the coming days. It would be the first time in the UT police department, that sub- inspectors would be deployed SHOs of police stations.
 
 A senior cop told that in Delhi, Punjab and  , several sub-inspectors have been working as a SHOs in police stations and performing well. Interestingly, five SHOs have already requested to seniors to remove them from the posts of SHOs. However, some of them cited that they have medical problem and cannot continue as SHOs. There are around 70 inspector ranked officers in the UT police force, but many of them don’t want to work in police stations due to work pressure or other reasons, so it is better to give sub-inspectors to serve as SHOs and they would perform well in comparison to inspectors, said a top brass of UT police.
 
 A senior officer told that they have identified some inspectors who don’t work sincerely and take the posts of SHOs as granted and they would be changed other new inspectors and sincere sub inspectors would be given chance to work in the police stations and probe themselves.
 
 There is also a problem in subordination of UT cadre inspectors and DANIPS cadre DSP’s. Some inspectors do not follow the orders of their DSP’s and keep indulge in anti-department activities that ruin the reputation of department, said a senior cop.
 
 
