The latest episode of   starts with   taking   away and Ishita, Aaliya try their level best to stop him. But Adi points a gun at   and says that he will shoot them.

 Suddenly, Shagun arrives in the temple and tries to stop Adi but Ishita tells her that he has the gun. Shagun calls Mani and informs him about Adi's behavior. Adi takes Roshni away and Ishita, Shagun and Aaliya start following him.
 
 On the other hand, in the court, the proceedings get started and   gets worried for his daughter Pihu. He tries to make   understand that   is like her own daughter and Simmi promises she will save Pihu. Meanwhile, Param tries to instigate Simmi against the Bhallas and tells her that Pihu killed their daughter  . 
 
  Adi's car breaks down and he drags Roshni out of the car. Roshni clarifies to him saying that she does not love him.
 
  Adi loses his calm and calls her shameless. While in the court, the lawyer says that Pihu and Ananya both were cousin sisters and were fond of each other. But one day while playing by mistake Pihu pushed Ananya and she fell off the stairs to her death. The lawyer further even said that Ishita tried to protect her daughter and took the entire blame on herself and also underwent the punishment.
 
 Simmi comes to give her testimony and suddenly says that her own child Ananya was killed by Pihu. She also holds Pihu responsible for Ananya's death. Simmi further tells the judge to give justice for her daughter. The court then asks Raman to produce Pihu in court and Raman tells the judge that his daughter is facing trauma after the incident. Pihu is brought in the court and she is asked if she pushed Ananya and Pihu says she did. The judge announces 8 months of juvenile retention for Pihu.
 
 Santoshi slaps Simmi and disowns her. Raman is shattered as Pihu is taken away. While, on the other side, Ishita and Shagun talk to Adi but he threatens them. He also shows them the acid bottle and says that he will destroy Roshni. Adi further throws the gun down and opens the acid bottle. Immediately Ishita takes the gun and points it at Adi.
 
