MEERUT: Months after the launch of two modern contraceptives at the women district hospital here, authorities said that as many as 149 beneficiaries have opted for them till date. The district hospital had, on February 15, launched two new birth-control methods – an injection (Antara) and a weekly oral pill (Chhaya). Officials said that 111 women have opted for Antara and 38 others for  .
 
  While Chhaya should be consumed twice a week for three months and once a week after that, Antara injections have to be injected once after every three months. Unlike previous oral pills, Chhaya does not have hormonal side effects. The relatively good response to the injectable dosage, doctors said, was because it fulfills the need for an effective method of contraception for women who have an unmet need for children and pressure from family members.
  
  “Contrary to the Chhaya pills, Antara has got a very good response from the local women. They often do not want to reveal about contraceptives to their family members and the injectable method allows them to do so,” said Dr  , chief medical superintendent, women district hospital.
  
  An incentive of Rs 100 for the recipient as well as the health worker under the Antara scheme is also provided. It should be noted that contraceptives such as condoms, Intrauterine Contraceptive Device (IUCD) and oral pills which were available at the district hospital earlier were replaced by Chhaya and Antara.
  
  In the first phase, 30 hospitals of   had received these contraceptives and later 52 hospitals, including one in  , got them.
  
  “Antara injections are given only after healthcare professionals rule out any underlying illness or hormonal disorders of recipients. These birth-control methods were introduced with an aim to lower fertility rate in Meerut from 3.4 to 2.1,” added Dr Malik.
  
  The new contraceptives were launched at a time when the National Family Health Survey-4 (NFHS-4) revealed that utilization of family planning methods had gone down from 56.3% to 53.5% in India. The contraceptives were launched under the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare’s initiative.
