NEW DELHI: The   drive led by the   (STF) focused on clearing the   in several   including   and  , while a large scale exercise to impound illegally parked vehicles was also carried out.

 The three municipal corporations impounded/challaned over 270 vehicles on Saturday. This was more than twice the per/day number that was being witnessed so far.
 
 TOI accompanied the enforcement team at Yusuf Sarai market where additional police force had to be called-in as the officials faced severe opposition from vehicle owners. 
 
 “One of our senior officials was surrounded by the violators who started attacking him. We had to call in additional force to control the situation,” said an official accompanying the team, which cleared Aurobindo Marg from AIIMS to IIT flyover stretch. The team managed to clear 4km of the stretch by removing encroachments on the road and footpath.
 
 The south corporation picked up over 161 vehicles violating the parking norms, the north civic body impounded 73 vehicles, while the east corporation penalised 30 violators. In the last five days, the three civic bodies have impounded 750 vehicles in total. The anti-encroachment drive in Najafgarh zone was undertaken from Gurgaon border to Kapashera traffic light, clearing a 4km stretch. Old Delhi’s iconic stretches too looked somewhat decongested after Saturday’s action — 41 vehicles were impounded from Chandni Chowk area alone — though the real impact would be seen in the coming days.
 
 In south corporation’s central zone Daryaganj, Ansari Road and Mahavir Vatika 24 dumped cars, 49 rickshaws were seized and 30 extensions, like concrete stairs, along with 20 make-shift shops were demolished. 
 
 At the Dilli Gate to Turkman Gate stretch (Fasil Road) the teams from licensing department of north corporation demolished permanent encroachments like staircases, chabutras, tin-sheds and lavatories along with large number of iron stands, wooden takhts, tarpaulin extensions. “Ten vehicles were impounded and 68 items were seized from this 1.5km stretch,” a spokesperson said.
 
 The east corporation seized 28 vehicles, out of which 21 were impounded from the Seelmapur traffic light to Maujpur traffic light stretch, where 38 temporary structures were also demolished. Similarly, 7 vehicles were impounded and 47 structures were demolished from Gokulpuri T point to Vijay Park (Maujpur).
 
 
