NAGPUR: A book titled ‘Yog Shiksha’, penned by Kumkum Boratkar, was released by Kanchan Gadkari, president of Sevasadan Nagpur, at a ceremony held at Scientific Society Hall on Wednesday. The preface to the book has been written by union transport minister Nitin Gadkari.

 Addressing the gathering, Gadkari appreciated Boratkar and urged people to regularly practise yoga to avoid health issues. She said that teaching yoga regularly in schools will help it grow in the country which can get rid of many ailments.
 
 In her speech, Boratkar spoke about promoting yoga and inspiration behind writing the book. She said, “I have always been feeling a connection with yoga. I used to observe my mother practise yoga when I was a child. I was also appreciated in school for giving yoga demonstrations. Looking at my passion, I was sent for a formal education and I have never stopped since then.”
 
 “In my teaching life, my students told me that my notes are helpful to them and a compilation can make it a quality book. Many people encouraged me to put my knowledge on paper which I did. The process of writing has enriched and enlightened me as I learnt finer details of yoga,” she said. 
 
 She explained various definitions of yoga that resonated well with her and said that it is all about equality which is why any person can become a yogi. She ensured scientific justifications for every theory she has mentioned in the book.
 
 Murlidhar Chandekar, vice-chancellor of Amravati University, was the chief guest. He praised Boratkar on her success and said that the book has the power of guiding people on maintaining a good health. Tapan and Swati Dutta of Siddhartha Publications, which brought out the book, were present.
 
 Boratkar is assistant professor at Nagpur Physical Education College and has been part of various national and international conferences on yoga. She has also presented many papers on the topic and was awarded a PhD for her thesis on ‘Use of pranayam to reduce effects of pollution in human body’. Boratkar, working in the field of yoga since the last 25-30 years, was on the panel of judges in various national and international yoga competitions.
 
 Those who guided, supported and helped Boratkar in her process of becoming author of a book were also felicitated by Gadkari during the programme.
 
 
