CHANDIGARH: At a time when the Rs 12,600 crore   scam has shaken the country's banking system, a Chandigarh resident has approached the Chandigarh district court alleging a   fraud by a city-based jeweller in connivance with bank officials. 

 Devender Kumar, who retired recently from a top pharmaceutical company as general manager, has requested the court for an FIR against proprietors of Anmol Jewels along with bank officials for allegedly making him a guarantor for loans worth Rs 6 crore without his knowledge.
 
 According to documents available with TOI, proprietors of Anmol Jewels, including Vikas Walia, his wife Vernika and father Ram Saran Walia, took loans worth Rs 35.95 crore from different banks, including Punjab National Bank, Indian Overseas Bank and  , and defaulted on them. The documents show that the loan accounts of the company and their sister concerns were declared non-performing assets on June 30, 2015, and the banks had issued notice to auction off six properties. 
 
 The Walias, along with bank officials have also been accused of inflating the value of their properties to get their loans sanctioned. Bank officials named in the complaint are  , general manager of Canara Bank at Bangalore and Neeraj Mittal, assistant general manager, Prime Corporate Branch at Sector 17 in Chandigarh. 
 
 Accused inflated value of their properties to get loans
 
 Kumar’s petition alleges that Bajaj is Vikas’s brother-in-law.
 
 Besides the case in the Chandigarh district court, a civil suit is pending in the Debt Recovery Tribunal and complaints have also been given to the economic offences wing of the police and the PMO.
 
 Kumar wants the accused to be booked for breach of trust, cheating, various sections relating to forgery and criminal conspiracy. Devender’s statement has been recorded in court. The case would come up for hearing on April 2.
 
 Kumar’s complaint alleges that Canara Bank allegedly illegally sanctioned OCC (open cash credit limit) of Rs 15 crore to Anmol Jewels ignoring all banking norms. Mittal, who was then branch AGM allegedly in connivance with the borrowers and Bajaj defrauded Kumar by misrepresenting facts and making him a guarantor in the account after it was declared a NPA.
 
 Kumar has alleged that action under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 (SARFAESI Act) had already been initiated before he was made a guarantor. The Act allows banks and financial institutions to auction properties to recover loans.
 
 Kumar has also alleged that the bank created collateral security of his only house in Mohali after the account was declared NPA apparently to save themselves other bank officials from disciplinary action for the irregularities committed in sanctioning and handling the Anmol account.
 
 The petition alleges that cheap properties were purchased by Vikas and Vernika and had them registered at a higher value in 2014 just before applying for OCC. Mittal got these properties verified by the bank’s valuator and had Rs 15 crore loan approved.
 
 According to the petition, the bank documents were signed on November 7, 2014 and Rs 5.85 crore was released to the sister concerns of Anmol Jewels. A list of willful defaulters provided by Canara Bank to Kumar on November 13, 2017 says that the borrowers concealed the facts about loans taken for their other firms from Indian Overseas Bank.
 
 
 
