CHANDIGARH: To enhance productivity and capacity of micro and small enterprises (MSEs),   government has plans to set up “common facility centres” for 20 industrial clusters across the state with the central government’s support.

 Facility centres can be used by members of an industrial cluster and provide facilities for testing, design, production, training, research and development, product display, raw material and sales. Under Micro and   (MSE-CDP), six industrial clusters each have been identified in Ludhiana and  , four in Mohali, two in Patiala, and one each in Hoshiarpur and  . The director of Punjab industries department, D P S  , said, “Of the 20 identified MSE clusters, we have already got clearance from the central government for two common facility centres in Mohali and Ludhiana.” 
 
  
  
 
 The facility centre in Ludhiana, which got the nod on February 9, is being set up for an oil expeller and parts cluster, while the centre in Mohali will be dedicated to hitech metal cluster. It got the Centre’s thumbs-up in 2017. To date, the state government has given a clearance to diagnostic study reports for mapping business processes and validating action plan of 12 of the 20 clusters.
 
 Under MSE-CDP, the central government provides 90% grant of the total cost of project of maximum Rs 15 crore. The remaining amount has to be contributed by the special purpose vehicle (SPV) industrial cluster members. “Studies have proved that organised industrial clusters have been successful in business as compared to scattered industries,” said Kharbanda.
 
 The programme aims at supporting growth of MSEs by addressing common issues, like improvement of technology, quality, skills, access to capital, and market. The director for the SPV ‘oil expeller and parts cluster in Ludhiana’,  , told TOI, “We have opted for this project as we are 170 members under the cluster and have been using same technology for 50 years. By upgrading technology, we aim at increasing our exports. Even small manufacturers will be able to use expensive machinery at the common facility centre.” 
 
 In all, 80% of the oil expeller business of the country is based in Ludhiana, which has a turnover of around Rs 300 crore and employs around 1,500 people.
 
 
