BHUBANESWAR: Youth prefer   and   more than  . This was revealed in a research conducted by the  , Bhubaneswar, which published the article in the latest edition of British Food Journal.

 Easy availability of soft drinks in college canteens and hostel messes has been a reason for consumption of soft drinks followed by restaurants and supermarkets. Besides, youth drink soft drinks mainly for pleasant feeling in their mouth, the survey said.
 
 The objective of the research was to examine the consumption patterns and attitude towards soft drinks among Indian youth. “The findings reflect increasing awareness for health and healthy food and drinks among Indian youths. A shift among urban consumers towards low sugar beverages has already forcing companies to launch newer and healthier products and this trend will continue in days to come,” said Niraj Kumar, faculty member, rural management, XIMB, who conducted the research.
 
 The survey was done among 300 youths between the age group of 18 to 30 years in different institutes across India. Among the respondents 67% were male and 93% were graduates.
 
 Among the frequent users, diet soft drinks were consumed the most while, in the case of less frequent consumers, fruit juices were consumed the most, the survey revealed. “The study strongly indicated that if healthy drinks are made available and marketed as the appropriate substitute of carbonated sugary drinks, consumers may shift their preferences towards the healthier drinks,” Kumar added. He conducted the study jointly with Subhajyoti Ray, faculty member, XIMB.
 
 Youths mostly consumed soft drinks as a separate drink item and not as a substitute for any other drink or meal. Soft drinks were the most common option for those who did not drink or did not want to consume alcohol, the survey said.
 
 Most of the respondents said soft drink consumption was least affected by their parents’ consumption and their home environment and they have been consuming soft drinks since childhood and did not remember when they started, it added.
 
 The findings reflect increasing awareness for health and healthy food and drinks among Indian youths.
 
  “A shift among urban consumers towards low sugar beverages has already forcing companies to launch newer and healthier products and this trend will continue in days to come. The government and agencies encouraging consumption of healthy foods and drinks may work on the policy issues like, limiting the selling of carbonated soft drinks within the academic institutions, taxing carbonated sugary drinks and educating adolescents and youth about the benefits of healthy substitutes,” said Kumar.
 
