MUMBAI: More than three decades before the Supreme Court ( ) finally paved the way to decriminalize attempt to suicide as a penal offence, the Bombay high court (HC) held the offence to be unconstitutional. The SC’s five-judge bench ruling referred to the 1986 HC judgment landmark at the time, passed by a bench of Justices BK Patil and P  .

 The HC was hearing the prosecution case launched in 1982 against a police officer,  , who had suffered a head injury a year earlier for attempting suicide by pouring kerosene and setting himself ablaze outside the civic chief ’s office. Dubal’s lawyer,  , had argued that attempted suicide cannot constitute an offence under right to life under Article 21 and also under right to equality under Article 14 as the section treats all cases of attempted suicide the same and prescribes the same punishment.
 
 The judgment authored by Justice Sawant noted that ‘suicide’ is nowhere defined in the IPC. It said that it falls foul of Article 14 as it treats all suicide attempts equally “without regard to circumstances” in which, made. The offence is arbitrary said the HC as it seeks to punish a man who seeks ‘self-deliverance’ “to escape from life’s cruel conditions”.
 
 “One’s life, limbs are certainly one’s property and he is the sole master of it. He should have the freedom to dispose it of as and when he desires... all persons cannot be painted with the same brush,” said the judgment, set aside by the SC a decade later.
 
 Significantly, the HC had quoted extensively from the Dharmashastra and observed that the right to die was not alien to religions like Hindu and Jain which have approved of the practice of ending one’s life by one’s own act in certain circumstances while condemning it in other circumstances.
 
 Even England had repealed attempt to suicide as an offence in 1961. It is not a crime in Russia and many states of USA. “Society’s attitude today is less moralistic and punitive and more understanding, tolerant and humanistic. It believes in correction rather than coercion. Even in Japan where the custom of compulsory Seppuku (hara-kiri) or ritual self embowelling as a mode of punishment was made illegal in 1868, voluntary hara-kiri and an act of expiration for defeat or self-sacrifice has always been highly praised and occurs even today occasionally.”
 
