NITI Aayog CEO 
  has been driving the India’s “youngest institution” for the last two years. In an interview, he talks to TOI about what NITI has done in the last three years, and the challenges before the country. At the same time, the former IAS officer says that health and education will create employment in the future, just as   and Uber have added 1.3 million jobs. Kant says improving the quality of jobs is a bigger challenge than job creation. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 NITI is Indian democracy’s youngest institution. In three eventful years it has driven cooperative and competitive federalism by ranking states on defined outcomes on health, education, water; it has focused on outcomes rather than inputs, it has driven digital payments, it has rationalized Centrally Sponsored Schemes under which large interventions are made in social sectors, laid emphasis on productive efficiency by recommending strategic disinvestment of central public sector enterprises and closure of sick and loss making ones, it has undertaken sustainable planning of Island development, catalysed government to business partnership through Champions of Change event, disrupted school education through tinkering labs and catalysed innovation through incubation centres. It has also pushed for radical reforms by drafting the Medical Commission Bill & facilitated the new  . You don’t have powers that the Planning Com- mission enjoyed. Do you see that as a handi- cap? Are states less responsible?
 
 The best thing is that NITI is not in the business of five year and annual plans. Its power comes from ideas, knowledge, intellectual inputs and its ability to converge and integrate across states and departments. It is also partnering states to transform and lift 115 Aspirational Districts into top performing districts of the country. We find the States far more responsive and active partners for change.
 
 
 
 
 The vision (15 years), strategy (7 years) and action agenda (3 years) make a major departure from the five year plans. With the increasingly open and liberalised economy we needed to rethink the tools and approaches to con-
 
 ceptualising the develop- ment process. The three-ye- ar action agenda which has been released has ambitious proposals for policy chang- es. Several of them have be- en implemented and work on many others is in pro- gress. The 15 year vi- sion has enab- led us to do long term thinking — focus on areas such as artificial intelligence, blockchain for education, health and agriculture, entire ecosystem of electric vehicles, big data analytics and internet of things. India needs to redesign its outdated and antiquated institutions. The next wave of big jobs will come from health and education. We need to open up these sectors rapidly. We are working on a longer term strategy and the vision document on where we want to see the country after 15 years.
 
 
 
 
 The biggest challenge is nutrition — we need to eliminate stunting and wasting by focusing on pregnant women and children. Second challenge is to radically improve the quality of learning, third is to focus on primary health care and improve our delivery systems; fourth is to enhance production and productivity in agriculture, do- uble farmers income by tech- nology, e-Nam and better marketing and fifth chal- lenge is to transform 115 dis- tricts and seven states of In- dia which have not grown at rapid rates. These are our aspirational states and dis- tricts where Centre and sta- tes should partner each other to implement the best practi- ces, closely monitor and ensure that there is radical long lasting transformation.
 
 
 
 
 The existing labour quarterly survey excludes 98.6% of Indian enterprises. It excludes enterprises having less than 10 hands with power and less than 20 hands without power. Government has focused on infrastructure creation, building of houses in rural areas, ensured substantial flow of credit to micro-enterprises through the Mudra Scheme and given impetus to self-help groups. Indirect evidence on creation of jobs through EPF, ESIC & NPS data tells a different story.   highlights that increased government spending, use of independent work and entrepreneurship have boosted gainful employment for 20-26 million people. The major challenge is not jobs but improving earnings in low paid jobs.
 
 The nature of jobs is also changing. We need to embrace technology. The sharing, connected and electric vehicles revolution is here. Ola has created 850,000 jobs, Uber another 450,000.These jobs are not counted in our labour statistics. We will have to make our labour force extremely flexible, resilient and adaptive. In future there will be higher skilled and higher paid jobs. We will have to upgrade our skills. While we move towards manufacturing 4.0 in some of our stateswe needtofocuson labour intensive areas like garments and textiles, food processing, footwear and leather, gems and   in other States. Every State must focus on its corecompetency sector.
 
 
 
 
 We should continue to focus on being an easy simple, predictable and consistent destination for rules, regulations and taxation. Second, we should focus on human capital by laying emphasison education, health, nutrition and agriculture sector. Third, we must do manufacturing to size and scale and focus on exports. Without penetrating global markets it will be difficult to grow for a long periods of time. Fourth, to give a huge emphasis to gender parity. Women contribute only 20% of India’s GDP. This must go up substantially. Fortunately, greater emphasis is being laid on gender parity. We also need to stabilize GST and push for quicker resolution under Insolvency Code. Finally, we must be able to rekindle the spirit of enterprise & investment in private sector and MSME’s. In the long run they are the main engine of growth and wealth creation.
 
 
 
 
 The government has pushed for strategic disinvestment. Thirty four of the companies that have been recommended have actually been approved by the cabinet. So, the political will to enhance India’s productive efficiencies is very much there. The challenge is to do it in a transparent and competitive manner because you are selling public assets and therefore the DIPAM is going about it in a very systematic, professional manner.
 
