PANAJI: Come February 2019, the state capital’s intelligent city management system could be up and running, enabling citizens to enjoy services such as smart parking, city-wide Wi-Fi network and efficient solid waste management. Under the   mission, 12 firms have shown interest in integrating the intelligent city management system and Imagine   Smart City Development Ltd appears set to award the work order by May end.

 
  
  
 
 The intelligent city management system, considered the brain of the smart city will see the integration of Internet of Things (IoT) devices, air quality sensors, radio frequency identification (RFID) tags, emergency management systems and security systems.
 
 “Around 70 firms have shown interest of which 12 companies have paid the bid document fee,” chief executive officer of the Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Swayandipta Pal Chaudhuri said.
 
 
 
 
 “The RFP was floated on March 19, and we will close it by April 19. Our estimate is completion in about eight months,” Chaudhuri said. “We expect to issue the work orders within a month from selection of the master systems integrator,” he said.
 
 The intelligent city management system will be the backbone for the integrated command and control centre (ICCC), which is being developed under the Smart City Mission.
 
 The ICCC will focus not only on city surveillance through smart cameras, but will also ensure efficient solid waste collection through RFID tags which will be embedded on trucks, garbage bins and at weigh bridges. RFID tag readers will be placed around the city to monitor the movement of garbage trucks.
 
 “We will not allow any deviation from the project proposal. Most government projects are delayed due to deviations and it also leads to cost overruns,” Chaudhuri said.
 
 The ICCC will also implement smart parking across the capital where citizens will be able to pre-book parking slots and pay for it through an app.
 
 “We are going to ask the North Goa collector to revamp the parking slots. A motorist will be able to book on-street parking space and even if he or she reaches late, the slot will be there,” Chaudhuri said.
 
 Imagine Panaji Smart City Development is the special purpose vehicle formed to implement the AMRUT and Smart City Mission in Panaji.
 
 The control centre will cover the entire city with around 400-odd surveillance cameras and will be integrated with the Corporation of the City of Panaji’s garbage management system. 
 
 The chief minister’s office will also have real time access to the ICCC data.
 
 
