SURAT: A group of citizens have started a campaign  , mera food’ to sensitize moviegoers in the Diamond City about their right to carry outside food to theatres and multiplexes. 

 The group members have decided to sensitize moviegoers by organizing awareness programmes at multiplexes with the latest judgment of Bombay high court, which said that if multiplexes didn’t allow outside food, then there should be total prohibition on eatables inside theatres and multiplexes.
 
 The HC directed   government to seek suggestions from multiplexes’ associations and take a stand on permitting moviegoers to carry their own food items inside theatres.
 
 A bench of justices RM Borde and   directed the home department to also consider suggestions submitted by the petitioners that people be permitted to carry outside food to theatres.
 
 A Mumbai resident   had filed a public interest litigation (PIL) in the HC claiming there was no statutory provision prohibiting one from carrying personal food articles or water inside theatres. 
 
 Last week, some moviegoers in the city had come face to face with the management of a multiplex in Adajan after they were prevented from carrying outside food inside the theatre. It was after police intervention that the issue was settled. 
 
 Advocate  , who is leading the ‘mera movie, mera food’ campaign, told TOI, “The multiplexes have monopoly when it comes to food, water and snacks at theatres. You can’t bring outside food into the theatre and are forced to shell out hefty charges for water bottles, snacks and food items. This despite the fact that there are no statutory provision prohibiting one from carrying personal food.” 
 
 Shukla added, “The campaign will sensitize moviegoers about their right to carry personal food inside movie theatres. If the multiplexes are not allowing outside food, then people should return the tickets.” 
 
 Another campaigner   said, “The restriction on bringing outside food to theatres affects senior citizens. However, the theatre owners cannot force their consumers to buy food from inside the theatre.”
 
 
