AURANGABAD: A 55-year-old construction manager was stabbed to death by three unidentified robbers near Adul, about 30 km from the city, while he was heading back to   late on Monday night. 

 The deceased identified as Siddhling Kore, hailing from Mhatargaon of   tehsil in Beed district, was employed as a construction manager with a builder from Aurangabad and had shifted to the city long back.
 
 On Monday, he along with his 37-year-old driver   was returning to Aurangabad from Parli, where he had gone to attend a family programme. The incident took place on the Solapur - Dhule National Highway 211 that passes through Aurangabad and Beed districts.
 
  police station chief and assistant inspector Mahesh Andhale said that Kore and his driver were travelling in a car with registration number MH-12-HL-3256, when something hit their vehicle.
 
 The duo stopped the car to check if something had been damaged, only to be surrounded by three suspects allegedly wielding sharp-edged weapons. They allegedly asked the duo to hand over all their valuables. 
 
 "It is a time-tested modus operandi of robbers operating on highways. They pelt stones on their target vehicle and attack the commuters as soon as the vehicle stops," Andhale said. 
 
 Facing strong resistance from the duo, one of the suspects allegedly stabbed Kore twice, including landing a blow in his chest. Kore collapsed on the ground due to the injury. 
 
 After this, the driver was stabbed in the thigh and stopped resisting the robbers. The trio fled with gold rings, chain worth Rs 1.36 lakh and Rs 1,900 in cash. 
 
 The driver picked up Kore and drove his car to Seth Nandlal Dhoot Hospital in Aurangabad, where Kore was declared brought dead.
 
 Later, both of them were referred to the  , where an autopsy was performed on the deceased before handing over his body to his family. 
 
 Taking serious cognizance of the incident, Aurangabad superintendent of police Arti Singh rushed to the spot and formed several teams to catch the suspects.
 
 "We have strong clues in this case and are confident of detecting the case at the earliest," she told TOI. 
 
 
