PILIBHIT: Is the tiger straying out of forest areas in search of a new habitat? So it would seem as the feline’s presence has been detected at Ghanshyampur and Kurraiya Kalan villages under Bilsanda police station circle in   district, striking fear in the hearts of the local residents. Till date, this area was never considered to be a part of tiger territory.
 
  These villages are around 1.5 km apart and some 10 km from the nearest Deuria forest range of   and about 12 km from Khutar forest range of   district, which has been witness to movement of tigers from North Kheri forest division of   district.
  
  A team of social forestry division found fresh pugmarks of a tiger in these villages on Saturday. A farmer of Kurraiya Kalan village, Balvinder Singh, told TOI that the pugmarks were spotted in the wheat field of another farmer in the village.
  
  A woman hailing from Ghanshyampur village, Parvati Devi, told TOI that a tiger had tried to barge into her hut on the intervening night between Friday and Saturday but its claw got entangled in a curtain which she had put up at the door. She reacted by screaming loudly for help, forcing the animal to flee. A group of villagers came to her aide and guarded her hut all night till dawn, she said.
  
  Officials, including divisional director of social forestry Adarsh Kumar, confirmed that tiger pugmarks were spotted in the agricultural belt and that it was moving about in the area.
  
  Kumar went on to add that this particular part of the district was a catchment area of river Khannaut. Reed and long stalks of wild grass and shrubs hem both its banks. “Such an area provides a safe shelter for wild animals besides drinking water that draws herbivores to the area. Such a habitat is also ideal for tigers, This may explain why big cats have ventured out of the forest to an area where abundant prey and water is found.”
  
  The movement of big cats is worrying villagers who say their children are at risk. Their fears are not unfounded. Just two days ago, a 12-year-old boy, Vishal, of Ghanshyampur village was mauled by a leopard when he went to the river bank to cut grass at Kuinyan Maholia, a border village under Banda police station of Shahjahanpur district, 4 km from his village.
  
  Man-animal conflict is also a matter of concern for the social forest department, already facing a staff crunch, said Kumar. Under the circumstances, it would be difficult for his department to track, trap and tranquilize the tiger on the prowl in this area.
  
  It may be recalled that a tiger had strayed out of PTR on July 15, 2017 and was spotted near the district court. Forest department officials had trailed it for months but never managed to capture it as it hid amid sugarcane stalks and high grass. It killed three people in August.
  
  Way back in 2012, a tigress with three cubs moved out of PTR and made the Deuni dam area its home as it provided an ideal habitat for them. It is now believed that at least five tigers live in the area.
