KOLKATA: The   is setting up state-run English-medium  , bringing to a full circle the 35-year-old language debate after English as a subject was banished from the primary level in 1983 during Left Front rule.

 The government, trying to address the growing aspirations of the middle class, has opened new schools in North 24 Parganas, Nadia and Jalpaiguri, where English is the medium of instruction and not just a subject taught from Class I. The school education department has, however, left options open for these schools to introduce Bengali-medium sections if there is demand.
 
 “We are setting up some new English-medium primary schools. They will also have sections with Bengali as the medium of instruction. This is apart from the existing government schools, which we have no plan to wind up,” state education minister Partha Chatterjee said in the assembly on Monday.
 
 The move is a step forward from the government decision to introduce English-medium sections in government schools at the higher secondary level. Officials believe that the English-medium primary schools will gradually lead to English-medium teaching in higher classes instead of the “top down” approach taken earlier.
 
 The medium of teaching in Bengal’s classrooms — like the flight of industry from Bengal — has been the subject of socio-political debates here for four decades, with some experts blaming the 1983 withdrawal of English from primary classes for reducing the “employability” quotient of Bengal’s youth and hastening the brain drain from Bengal.
 
 Various experts have also linked Bengal’s diminishing returns in all-India competitive exams to this lone government decision taken in 1983. All this expert scrutiny — and immense public pressure — led the   government to have a rethink and restore English teaching from class I in 2003. But, by most experts’ reckoning, it was too late by then.
 
 Experts view the current dispensation’s decision to bring English back not only as a subject but as the medium of instruction in some schools in this backdrop, which may also serve to arrest the outflow of students from even renowned government schools to much lesser know private English-medium institutions.
 
 State officials maintain that students going through primary classes with English as the medium of instruction will automatically create a demand for the same in higher classes. They also feel that parents, who are now forced to admit their children in Bengali-medium government schools because they cannot afford private schools’ fees, will have a cheaper alternative to give their children English-medium education.
 
 
