AJMER: The   has lived up to the expectations in terms of   but was low on the  . The polling which went low up to the first half spiked in the last two hours touching 65.38%.

 The figure is just 2% short of the voting percentage in highly electrifying polls in 2014. The two urban state assembly seats—Ajmer North and Ajmer South both held by ministers Vasudev Devnani and Anita Bhadel had seen the lowest turnout of 55.88% and 59.32%, respectively. 
 
 The highest voting percentage of 71.41% was recorded from Nasirabad which is the home turf of BJP candidate Ramswaroop Lamba while Pushkar stood second in the race with 67.93% voting turnout. Dudu which has sizeable Gujjar voters, has just 0.01% behind Pushkar.
 
 Despite high turnout, the polls remains peaceful barring few stray incidents, says police. The usual drum beating, flags waving, women coming while singing or crowd motivating and encouraging voters were missing from the scene. Even the youth brigade of political parties ferrying voters made a rare appearance.
 
 The religious town of Pushkar has seen women coming in groups for vote. Bhika Bhil, who claimed to be 106 years but his documents, says his age is around 74 recalls seeing Mahatma Gandhi came to Rajkiya Prathmik Vidhlaya in Pushkar.
 
 “I am voting because government gives me pension,” says Bhika who was accompanied by his great grandson who is aged 60.
 
 The bypolls have moved several citizens who have travelled distance to come for the vote. Ajay Chaudhary a judged based in Delhi came to Ajmer early in the morning for the casting his vote. “It is unbelievable even for me to think to come down for casting vote. As I enjoy all fundamental rights and I am feeling great to fulfil my duty which is enshrined in the constitution,” said Chaudhary. .
 
 The industrial town Kishangarh has also seen high level of enthusiasm for the polls. Prakash Hassani, a businessman based in Kishangarh has gone out with his family for vote. “Thanks to the political awareness by the social media that I have not only voted but asked my employees also to cast their vote and come to the unit,” said Hassani.
 
 
