MUMBAI: The   has claimed to have spent Rs1,200 crore more on various public works in the last financial year than in the previous year thanks to proper planning, execution and regular follow-ups. The BMC said it had spent Rs5,030 crore during the last financial year of the total Rs8,121 crore allotted for such works in the budget.

 
  
  
 
 The BMC administration claimed the spend was the highest of the total allocated budget in the last five years. But corporators slammed the BMC, stating that the figures were inaccurate as many works had not progressed as expected despite tall claims.
 
 Opposition leader in the BMC Ravi Raja said, “The administration is providing fudged figures. Many works got delayed because of introduction of GST and the road scam last year. The BMC spent less than half of the allocated money. For the coastal road, they allocated Rs600 crore but hardly spent anything. The same with the   and upgradation of work on various hospitals.”
 
 But BMC officials justified their claims, stating that the allocations were part of a computerized system so there was no question of manipulating figures. They claimed that on water, health, education and public goods (including roads), they spent more than 80% of the total allocated (revised) budget. Officials said they managed to maximize spending on public works because of appropriate allocations and budgetary controls.
 
 Officials said the raising of grievances related to inter-departmental hurdles during monthly meetings conducted by BMC chief   also helped the civic body to find solutions.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner   said, “All our spending is managed by software, so there is no possibility of fudging figures. Our spending is higher compared to the last few years owing to appropriate allocations in budget and financial controls. It also helped reduce our administrative expenses by 1% compared to the previous year.”
 
 BJP’s standing committee members   and   too disagreed with the spending claims. Shinde said, “It’s unbelievable. But I will comment after examining the figures.” Samant added, “The general body has passed the budget in the month of September, so it’s very difficult to spend 80% of the allocated money in the remaining period of the financial year.”
 
 
