GURUGRAM:   has announced it has taken over the Badshapur drain revival and rejuvenation project from  , which it will now execute with the help of private organisations utilising their CSR funds.

 The project involves cleaning and covering 7 km of the drain, which is 30-40m wide, between   on Sohna road and   near Hero Honda Chowk, and developing green and recreational spaces above ground on either side of the drain. 
 
 
  
 
 
 “This project had been taken up by Huda nine months ago, but it got stuck in land acquisition and demarcation issues, which have been recently sorted. Now, the corporation will revive the project with help of CSR funds of private organisations,” said MCG commissioner  .
 
 The drain will be first cleaned up and cleared of solid waste, for which MCG will install sewage treatment plans in villages near it, so that their effluents don’t reach the drain, and there is no stink emanating from it. “We resolved the lack of funds for the STPs through the Centre’s AMRUT scheme,” said Yadav. Next, it will be covered. The area will then be landscaped to ensure there isn’t much activity or   right above the drain. 
 
 In the second phase, the corporation plans to develop   and pedestrian   on both sides as part of its beautification. The entire length of the drain will be sequestered by a boundary wall, with multiple entry gates and a parking facility. “We’ve also proposed outdoor gym and sports facilities here, so that people can use the space for recreation. Additionally, there will be small kiosks or vends, and public conveniences,” said Yadav.
 
 The total cost of the project is expected to be around Rs 6 crore. MCG plans to rope in private organisations to fund and maintain the project. “The objective of roping in private organisations is to ensure maintenance in the long run, as such projects often suffer from lack of maintenance over time after they are completed,” said Yadav.
 
 A team of MCG officials will be doing a reconnaissance of the area this week, after which private firms will be called in for discussions on its funding under their Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. 
 
 Environmentalists are happy with the plan. They however doubt the execution, as many such plans, which have been proposed earlier, never got executed. “Given that it is a concrete drain, there would be no harm in converting the area around it into a public space. It would also save the drain from encroachment. However, implementation is the key, and MCG needs to ensure that once developed, the public space must be maintained over time,” said Jitender Bhadana, an activist.
 
 
