HYDERABAD: Come April 1, commuters travelling on   ( ) may have to cough up more as the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development authority ( ) has proposed to increase the toll tax for all categories of vehicles from the new financial year ie April. Official sources said the increase would be an average 10 per cent of the existing rates.

 “A proposal has been sent for approval to the authorities and the state government on increasing the toll fee. Since the fee had not been increased in April last year, 10 per cent hike has been proposed,” chief general manager of HMDA B   told TOI.
 
 Senior HMDA officials said they have decided to increase the rates based on the wholesale price index (WPI). There is a provision in the rules to increase 5 per cent toll tax every year, they explained.
 
 Officials said the increase will be eight paise to 39 paise for each kilometre travel for various categories of vehicles. For instance, the existing fee is Rs 1.65 per km for cars, it has been proposed to increase to Rs 1.73 per km. Similarly for big vehicles (four, five and sixaxle vehicles), the existing fee is Rs 8.79 per km, which is set to go up to Rs 9.18 per km.
 
 The metropolitan authority had increased the toll fee by 50 per cent in February 2017, mainly to overcome financial crisis and also to cover the loss in revenue accrued due to demonetisation. Officials had earlier claimed that the toll fee rates of Hyderabad ORR were much lesser than the toll fee collected on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway, Yamuna Expressway in Delhi and national highways.
 
 HMDA has been collecting toll fee from commuters through private agencies on the completed portions of ORR since 2009. The toll is being collected through  . The agency pays Rs 17 crore a month to HMDA.
 
 The ORR project authorities said HMDA had spent ?6,696 crore on the 158-km ORR. Of which, Es 2,439 crore needs to be paid to contractors who had taken up the works under build, operate and transfer (BOT) mode and ?3,558 crore loan was taken from Japan International Cooperation Agency ( ). HMDA needs to repay the amount, which comes to about Rs 500 crore a year.
 
