HYDERABAD: A day after a 14-year-old girl committed suicide in Malkajgiri, allegedly after being humiliated by the school management over non-payment of fees, a local court in Malkajgiri, on Friday, sent the principal, accountant and the   to judicial custody. 

 Confirming this, L Ramesh, sector officer, Malkajgiri police station said: "The three are lodged at the Cherlapally jail. Further investigation in the matter is on."
 
 On February 1, the minor, a Class 9 student at   in Malkajgiri hanged herself for allegedly being punished by the teacher who reprimanded the teenager for failing clear dues to the tune of 2,000. Turns out the student's father, an auto driver by profession, could not pay the fee as the family was undergoing financial crisis. 
 
 According to police, the girl narrated the incident to her sister, on returning home from school, and later went inside her room. When she did not respond to her mother's calls an hour later, the family rushed inside to find her hanging. In the suicide note the teenager wrote: "They didn't allow me to write the exam. Sorry, mom."
 
  
 Following her death, the victim's family lodged a complaint with the police on Thursday night. The Malkajgiri police took the principal, accountant and class teacher into custody and booked a case under Section 305 (abettment of suicide of child or insane person) of the Indian Penal Code and the   and   (prevention of atrocities) Act. 
 
 Apart from the police, the district education officer (Medchal) initiated an independent inquiry in the case. During the preliminary investigation, the school management claimed that the student was sent home as she complained of stomach pain. "While we could not speak to the deceased student's classmates, based on the suicide note, we suspect that the school was indeed responsible for humiliating and pushing the student to take the extreme step," said R Rohini, in-charge DEO of  .
 
 In a report submitted to  , regional joint director (RJD) of school education (Hyderabad), on Friday, the DEO recommended that the RJD cancel the recognition of the school. "However, we will try to speak to other students from the school to get clarity in the matter," said Rohini. 
 
 The student's suicide, meanwhile, sent jitters through parents community, who have been fighting against the school fee issue for the past few years. "We strive hard to earn money and provide better education to our children. It is government apathy to rein school fee hike. Our deepest condolences to the bereaved family," wrote   on it's Facebook page. 
 
 The management of Jyothi High School declared a holiday on Friday to condole the minor's death.
 
 
