LUCKNOW: A day after the  ,   put aside its over two-decade-old   on Sunday to support   in the Lok Sabha bypolls in Gorakhpur and Phulpur.

 The two seats will go to the polls on March 11; the results are to be announced on March 14. Although the arrangement is restricted for now to the bypolls, it may become a template for a 2015 Bihar-like experiment — when arch-rivals JDU and RJD had come together to take on BJP — in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 With five days left for campaigning for the bypolls to end, BSP leaders in Gorakhpur and Phulpur announced on Sunday that the party would support the SP candidates in the two seats.
 
 The announcements were made by BSP coordinators in Gorakhpur and Allahabad — Ghanshyam Karwar and Ashok Gautam, respectively — in the presence of SP leaders. BSP is not contesting the byelections.
 
 Senior BSP leaders, however, refrained from making any official statement. There was no reaction from SP chief Akhilesh Yadav either. Later, BSP supremo Mayawati clarified there was no coalition between BSP and SP and her party would “support any party that can defeat BJP”.
 
 Mayawati also said the arrangement would be subject to SP support for BSP in the Rajya Sabha elections due later this month. She said BSP, in turn, would support SP candidates in the legislative council polls in April. BSP state president Ram Achal Rajbhar said the party decided to support SP to defeat “communal and divisive forces” like BJP.
 
 Rajbhar said the support was announced for the byelections only. “The decision about entering into a pre-poll alliance with SP will be taken by the party leadership later,” Rajbhar told TOI. Party sources said Mayawati took the decision after a series of meetings with zonal coordinators from Gorakhpur and Phulpur at her Lucknow residence. Speculation about BSP and SP joining hands started gaining ground following a tweet by SP spokesperson Pankhuri Pathak on Saturday. “BSP to Support @samajwadiparty in the LS By-Polls in Phulpur & Gorakhpur. Much awaited decision by Mayawati Ji... Looking forward to contesting together & creating a larger Bahujan secular alliance,” Pathak had tweeted.
 
 While Akhilesh has been talking about the possibility of an SP-BSP tie-up to stop “communal forces”, it’s for the first time in 23 years that Mayawati has reciprocated.
 
 Political analysts said a generational shift in the SP leadership may have made it easier for her to make the decision. After June 2, 1995, when SP workers allegedly attacked her in Lucknow following BSP’s withdrawal of support to the Mulayam Singh Yadav-led government, she has been averse to any truck with SP, dominated by Mulayam and his brother Shivpal Yadav.
 
 But now that Akhilesh, who carries no baggage from the past, is helming the party, an association seemed palatable to her, said analysts. Although the combined vote-share of SP and BSP in Gorakhpur and Phulpur constituencies in 2014 was much smaller than the number of votes won by the BJP candidates, Yogi Aditya Nath and Keshav Maurya, respectively.
 
 
