NOIDA: Over 300 families lost their shelter as a massive fire engulfed a slum cluster near the drain in Barola village, Sector 49, Noida on Monday morning.

 The fire, which started in one of the shanties located at a corner abutting the road along the drain around 1am, soon spread to the entire cluster of jhuggis which had scrap material like cardboard, iron, paper and old vehicles strewn around.
 
 At least two children and an elderly woman were seriously injured in the fire, the cause of which is not known yet.   (7), who was brought to the district hospital by an ambulance at 2.20 am, had suffered nearly 40% burns.
 
 His uncle Bharat Biswas and an elderly woman too suffered minor burns.
 
 According to Safai Mazdoor Garib Utthan Union, whose members were present at the spot to help those rendered homeless, the jhuggis were owned by 26 scrap contractors. The contractors had some 307 labourers under them. 
 
 One of the contractors told TOI that the fire started in a jhuggi abutting the main road after which a series of cylinder blasts was heard. “I saw the jhuggi belonging to Asheba bibi burning and the fire spreading to the other jhuggis in minutes. A series of cylinder blasts were heard subsequently,” he said.
 
 Ali Sheikh, one of the contractors, told TOI that the fire could have been started by someone from outside.
 
 “There was scrap in all the jhuggis, including cardboard, paper, old vehicles, etc but the fire started in a jhuggi which was located at one corner abutting the road along the drain. It seems someone has deliberately set the jhuggi on fire,” he said. Asheba Khatoon, whose jhuggi was the first to catch fire, said she did not know how the fire started. The fire spread because most of the jhuggis were made of bamboo, grass and plastic sheets, barring a few made of tin-sheets.
 
 The labourers, most of whom belong to Murshidabad, Nadia and Malda in West Bengal, lost their poultry and pets as well. Local people said that the emergency number 100 could be reached only after multiple attempts. Kamal Nagar, a shopkeeper who lost his shop and a major part of the house in the fire, said the fire tenders reached an hour-and-a-half late.
 
 “The fire started around 1 am. An hour later, two fire tenders arrived at the spot. However, they returned soon as their tanks did not have enough water. A number of fire tenders followed but they too arrived late,” he said.
 
 His mother Birbati, who suffered burn injuries while trying to save some of her belongings, told TOI that the fire tenders kept sprinkling water on the burnt scrap till about 4 am. Kuldeep Kumar, fire officer I, however, told TOI that they got information about the fire only at 1.45 am.
 
 “The first two fire tenders reached at 2.05 am and subsequently, 10 more fire tenders were rushed to the spot from fire stations at Sector 2, Sector 58, 71, Ecotech III, Phase II and Greater Noida. The fire was brought under control by 4 am,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, RWA members of sectors 100, 34 and local residents pitched in to provide food, clothes, water, medicines etc. to the families displaced due to the fire. 
 
 MLA   and a couple of social organisations also lent support to the cause by trying to arrange beds, blankets, medicines and cooking utensils.
 
 
