Women are breaking through the glass ceiling in several aspects of life, whether it involves running for public office or going to outer space. Despite these accomplishments, there are some fields that are out of reach for women. While the gender gap in terms of wages and certain fundamental rights is known to be large, recent research has shown that there is a huge gender disparity in healthcare as well. A recent study suggested that general physicians are less likely to check for heart disease risk factors in female patients when compared to their male counterparts.

 A group of Australian researchers conducted a study that included around 53,000 patients from 60 hospitals in the country. They assessed the risk factors for heart disease such as cholesterol levels, blood pressure (BP), smoking habits and evaluated the drugs prescribed for treating the risk factors. The results were disturbing, as they revealed that men were more likely to be evaluated for heart disease risk factors than women. In addition, younger women between the ages of 35 and 54 years who were at a high risk of heart disease were 37% less likely to be prescribed appropriate medication such as BP drugs and statins than men in the same age group. These results are important since the evaluation of risk factors and prescription of appropriate medication could prevent the future incidence of heart attacks or stroke. The researchers believe that this disparity exists because of the general misconception that women are protected from heart disease. The results also indicated that around 43% of all patients - male and female had their risk factors assessed and that less than half of all patients received appropriate medication for the risk factors. Further studies need to elaborate on whether the under-evaluation of heart disease risk factors or under-prescription of drugs in women could be correlated with a higher incidence of cardiac events.
 
 They say that to find out about the health of the society, you need check the health of its women. It’s time to heal the society by prioritizing the health of women as well as men.
 
 
 
 1. Hyun KK, Redfern J, Patel A et al., Heart. 2017 Apr;103(7):492-498.
 
 
 
 Dr. Rushin Mehta, MBBS, C. Diabetology, PG Dip Diab (UK), Consultant Diabetologist & Physician, The
 Clinic, Mumbai
 
 
 
