NEW DELHI: If cricketer-turned-politician   wins elections this year to become  's Prime Minister, the one thing he "dreads" is having to meet US President Donald Trump, he told the Voice of America, a US government-funded media outlet.

 
 
 "I will dread it, but I will have to swallow the bitter pill and meet him," Khan said about Trump, who has since August been berating Pakistan for providing "  to agents of chaos and terror".
 
 Khan, the founder and leader of the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf ( ) party, said meeting Trump would be unavoidable though.
 
 "Whether we would be able to communicate, I am not so sure, but of course we, countries, have to work with the United States," he said.
 
 The Trump administration recently suspended close to $2 billion in aid to Pakistan, after the US President, in a blistering New Year's Day tweet, slammed the country for offering nothing but "lies and deceit" in return for US aid over the decades.
 
 Trump's tweet angered everyone in Pakistan, including Khan, who said the US President has "insulted" the country.
 
 "You cannot insult a country of 200 million people by blaming, scapegoating them for the disaster in Afghanistan. It was very insulting of him [Trump], the way he treated Pakistan. ... He has treated Pakistan like a doormat. I just don't think that that was very fair," Khan said.
 
 The former cricketer agreed that Pakistan should have supported the US in the latter's 'war on terror' post the 9/11/2001 terror attacks. But what it should not have done, he said, "is deployed tens of thousands of troops to the country's tribal regions on the Afghan border to fight its own people," reported the Voice of America.
 
 Khan has often talked about how he would limit relations with the US if he becomes Pakistan's Prime Minister. In 2014, while spearheading street protests against now disgraced former PM Nawaz Sharif, he directly addressed the then US ambassador to Pakistan, Richard Olson, in one of his speeches.
 
 "Richard, convey my message to the State Department. Firstly, they have no right to interfere in the politics of Pakistan. If you want Pakistan to be a friend of the US, we are willing, but please remember, a prime minister like Imran Khan can never be a stooge like Nawaz," he said, according to International Business Times. Khan was referring to Sharif, who last year had to resign after the Pakistan supreme court disqualified him from holding any public post.
 
 In fact, it was Khan who spearheaded the move to oust Sharif, and his success in doing that is what has some observers predicting he will win the Prime Ministerial elections later this year.
 
 
