GURUGRAM: A survey by the Gurugram municipal corporation on the orders of the Supreme Court has found that there are only 650   people in the city, prompting questions on the figure given the city’s expanding limits and the rising population.

 Corporation officials said they had assigned a private agency to carry out the survey, which was completed two weeks ago.
 
 “The survey has put the number of homeless people in the city at 650 and arrangements have been done to ensure no one sleeps in the open in this cold because of lack of shelter,” said Mahender, the city project officer.
 
  
  
 
 Sources said there were apprehensions over the survey’s findings, given that the city was expanding and had a population of over 8.7 lakh according to the 2011 census. But the corporation will still have to ensure the homeless are sheltered, in the wake of a directive issued by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in this regard last month.
 
 There are currently three   in the city that can house 300-350 people in total and another seven temporary structures with a capacity of 20 in each. This means, the corporation needs to make arrangements for 100-150 homeless people, according to the survey.
 
 The Supreme Court had in November last year directed the Haryana government to prepare a roadmap for the urban poor, following which the corporation had been asked to conduct the survey and tenders were issued for the purpose. 
 
 “The last survey was conducted in 2011 by the Red Cross Society, which said Gurugram had just 136 homeless people,” said an MCG official.
 
 Labour organisations in the city criticised the arrangements in place for the homeless. “The state government may be trumpeting its initiatives for helping the homeless, but there should be a reality check on these shelters. For instance, the temporary night shelter near Sadar bus stand does not have a toilet,” said Rajinder Singh, the secretary Citu, the CPM’s labour wing.
 
 Asked about making arrangements for the homeless, the city project officer said they had opened an additional hall in Sheetala Mata Mandir and another at the Red Cross office for women. A visit to the spots, however, did not reveal any such arrangements. “If there are more people, we can always turn our community halls into night shelters.” 
 
 
