GURUGRAM:   J P   on Monday stressed the need for hospitals to have better communication with patients about treatment procedures and costs involved to avoid any dispute later.

 The minister further said hospitals could get counsellors to act as a bridge between doctors and patients, to carefully explain patients and their kin about ailments and prognosis. Informing patients about treatment costs in advance would help build people’s trust in private healthcare provides, Nadda added, without naming anyone or any facility.
 
 In the recent past, a few private hospitals in   had been accused of negligence and overcharging.
 
 “In emergency, patients and their attendants are full of emotions while doctors are busy doing surgery, and there is a communication gap. There is no counselling. I suggest you explain (to patients and their attendants) what procedures you’re going to follow for the treatment,” he said at the inauguration of a branch of   in Gurugram.
 
 Nadda said Gurugram had many private hospitals but they were mostly out of reach of poor, and urged Naryana hospital authorities to provide affordable, if not free, treatment to people. The minister also asked hospitals to register themselves under the Clinical Establishment Act, which would allow the authorities to exercise some control on private establishments and check negligence, if any. 
 
 “The states will either have to adopt this (central) law or pass their own law,” he said. The Haryana government is in the process to implement the central Act in the state.
 
 Nadda also boasted of 500 dialysis centres that have been established under a PPP model, which, he said, have taken care of 2.5 lakh patients till date. He said private and public healthcare facilities should work together to ensure quality and affordable treatment for a larger section of the population. Nadda said the government was working towards ensuring affordable healthcare for all under the Ayushman Bharat policy. 
 
 “This is an experiment (to take affordable healthcare to 500 million people), and we are working on standardising 1,392 procedures,” he said.
 
 Devi Shetty, the chairman of the Narayana group, Gurugram civil surgeon BK Rajora, PMO Dr Pradeep and senior health officer Dr. Sanjay Narula were also present. 
 
 
