CHENNAI: Nearly one-third of the area in the country with   distribution is in   with the state covering an area of 3,040sqkm spread across several districts. India has a total area of 9,000sqkm of sandalwood distribution spread across eight states with   having the maximum area of 5,245sqkm.

 Responding to a question on sandalwood distribution in the country in the   last week, minister of state in the ministry of environment, forest and climate change   said 8,200sqkm area of sandalwood distribution out of the total 9,000sqkm is in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. 
 
 “Information regarding number of sandalwood trees in the country in not compiled at the level of ministry,” he said when asked if the government had conducted any survey to find out the number of sandalwood trees in the country.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, sandalwood trees are spread across several districts of Salem, Dharmapuri, Erode, Tiruvannamalai, Vellore, the Nilgiris, Villupuram and to certain extent in Madurai, Virudhunagar and Tirunelveli.
 
 Apart from Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, states like Kerala (15 sqkm), Andhra Pradesh (200 sqkm), Odisha (25 sqkm), Madhya Pradesh (33 sqkm), Maharashtra (33 sqkm) and Rajasthan (sparse) have sandalwood trees distributed across a few districts.
 
 To a question on large scale illegal cutting of sandalwood trees for the smuggling purposes, Sharma responded that the ministry had not received any report regarding large scale illegal cutting of sandalwood trees for smuggling purpose.
 
 The minister said there were sporadic incidents of sandalwood tree felling where action was taken by the respective state or Union territories under various acts including the Indian Forest Act, 1927, Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, Forest (Conservation) Act, 1980, among other state specific acts and rules. 
 
 “Protection and management of forests is primarily the responsibility of the concerned state/UT governments,” he said.
 
 He elaborated on the various measures taken by the forest departments of states and Union territories to protect the forest area which include survey and demarcation of forest areas construction of boundary pillars and check posts, use of modern technology including wireless network, remote sensing, geographical information system, information technology and global positioning system, and improved mobility of the field staff by providing vehicles for patrolling.
 
 He said local communities were encouraged and involved in conservation, protection and management of forests through joint forest management committees/ village level committees.
 
 
