Shahid Kapoor's much talked about film   released last week and the actor said that now that the film is out of his system, he can focus on other projects.

  
  
 Shahid surprised his fans by visiting a theatre in Mumbai on Sunday. 
 
 The actor paid a visit to find out audience reaction to 'Padmaavat' and during an interaction, he was asked about his next film   to which he replied, "  in 'Toilet Ek Prem Katha' talked about issues women faced with open defecation. Now he has chosen the electricity issue which will make the film very relatable to the common man."
 
 "Now, that 'Padmaavat' has released and is out of my system, I can focus on other projects."
 
 The actor also revealed that the 'Batti Gul Meter Chalu' team will begin shooting soon.
 
 "We will start shooting for it in the next 10 days. We have already started table reads for the film. The story is based in Uttarakhand so I will be using a certain accent and dialect for the film. After playing a King, I will be seen as a small city lawyer. Apart from me,   and   are part of the film," he said.
 
 
 
 Shahid essayed the role of   in Sanjay Leela Bhansali's directorial.
 
 When asked why he decided to take the role, he said: "There are some films that are very close to your heart and then there are some films which you have to experience with other people. I did this character of Ratan Singh for people because I wanted people to know more about him, about his valour and his sacrifices."
 
 Bollywood actress   on Saturday called Bhansali out for the glorification of Sati and Jauhar in his film in an open letter.
 
 When asked to comment on the same, Shahid said, "I haven't read it yet. We have been busy with other things, but I think this isn't the right time. 'Padmaavat' is representing the film industry and it's freedom of expression."
 
 "It has been a tough battle for us to be able to bring forth the film to the audience. It feels great to receive support from the entire industry but it feels odd that someone said something on a personal level. That's OK though as everyone has the right to say what they want but I haven't read it yet."
 
 In the film,   stars as Rani Padmavati while   plays Sultan Alauddin Khilji. Aditi Rao Hydari, Jim Sarbh, Raza Murad and Anupriya Goenka feature in supporting roles.
 
  
  
  
 
