NAGPUR:   (MKM) is conducting district-level sub-junior and junior kho-kho and   tournament on January 6 and 7 at the New English High School ground, Congress Nagar.

 Addressing a press conference here on Thursday, secretary of MKM   said, “in kho-kho event, ten boys and girls teams are participating in the junior categories, while eight teams will participate in the sub-junior boys section from Nagpur, Katol, Ramtek. The Nagpur district teams will be selected for Vidarbha-level kho-kho tournament on the basis of performance in this meet.”
 
 In volleyball, 12 teams from Nagpur, Katol, Kondhali, Kalmeshwar and Dhapewada will vie for the top honours in the junior and sub-junior sections.
 
 The champion in sub-junior kho-kho tournament will get Rs 5,000 and trophy in the memory of Lt Colonel Saibal Datta. The runners-up and third place holder will be awarded Rs 3,500 and Rs 2,500, respectively. In the junior boys category, Atul Kulkarni and Samir Lohi have sponsored the prizes.
 
 The junior girls champions will get Rs 3,000, while runners-up will collect Rs 2500. All the prizes are sponsored by   in memory of Anusayabai Hirekhan. Apart from it there will be individual prizes for best defender, best attacker and outstanidng player.
 
 Charmode said in volleyball, the winner in the sub-junior boys section will get Rs Rs, 3,500. Three kho-kho and two volleyball courts have been prepared and the matches will be played in both morning and evening sessions.
 
 Director of ProHealth Foundation and international cyclist Dr Amit Samarth will inaugurate the tournment at 6 pm on Saturday. Secretary of New English High School Association Ajay Dhakras will preside over.
 
 The prize distribution function will be held on Sunday at 6 pm. Principal of Dhanwate National College Baban Taywade will be the chief guest. Acting director of Department of Sports and Physical Education of Nagpur University Dr Kalpana Jadhav will preside over. President of Maharashtra State Atyapatya Associaiton Arun Gadkari will also grace the occasion. Senior membr of mandal Shyam Kubde, working president Vijay Datarkar, Chitnis and others were present at the press confrence.
 
