 — the universal   — may be the most common design/print but designers are reinventing it to keep it relevant.
Come February, and love hits the high notes. And the hearts flood the market. From heart-shaped balloons to cards to heart prints on clothes, shoes, purses and   – it’s enough to give anyone a heartburn. The heart, like polka dots, is a classic fashion motif. It’s always been a popular street style – maybe a reason why fashion houses steered clear from it. But come 2013, and Burberry Prorsum decided to use the print for its shirts, dresses and bags. It updated it by taking away the cheesy red and pink and using it with warm shades of brown, coffee, chocolate and caramel.
 
  
 
 
  Designers are constantly trying to move the universal symbol of this Hallmark-driven holiday away from its tacky connotation to high-fashion. In 2015, Jeremy Scott decided to be all hale and hearty with a Moschino collection that had graphic heart prints in a scribble style. The Rodarte sisters — Kate and Laura Mulleavy — fitted their gowns with homespun-style heart bodices. In 2016, Proenza Schouler went for the heart-shaped cutout on a high-neck top to give it an upgrade. Recently, Gucci went for red glitter hearts. The fashion house also used the motif liberally on its popular (among A-listers) range of sneakers. 
 
 
  
  
 (From left to right: A heart cutout is a saucy update, Wrap yourself in warmth with a woven heart on your shoes and socks, Care for graphic, geometric print hearts? Black hearts on a tan bag take away the soppiness)
 
  
 
 
  Closer home, Quirk Box — a Mumbai-based art design studio — created the “Pyaar” range with graphic hearts. The stripes, 3D design and embroidered pins in heart shape repurposed the motif for the digital age.   brought out a linen heart weave sari quite popular with the B-town crowd. Founder and CEO of a jewellery brand Saroja Yeramilli says, “It is such a universal motif and commonly used that it is quite a challenge for designers to reinterpret it.” 
 
 
  The heart motif has moved away from twee. It’s now designed to suit the millennials – basically in a way that represents the complexities of relationships today. “For millennials, love is real, raw and complicated – not necessarily only mushy and sappy. Nowadays, you will see beautiful but imperfect hearts that represent love in modern times,” Yeramilli says.
 
 
 
  Some believe that the heart shape is derived from the shape of ivy leaves. While others contend it was modelled after the human anatomy. There’s a theory that it is the shape of the seedpod of an ancient plant silphium (also one of the first known contraceptives). It grew popular during the Renaissance, when it was used in religious art. By 18th century, it had became common in love notes.
 
  
  
 (From left to right: A heart on sari is a great way to update it, Stripes and Hindi script add a twist to the emoji, The pink hearts tone down the iconography, Go old school with glittery red hearts)
 
 
 
 This is a statement print, so treat it as such. Anchor it with a sleek and classic solid colour piece.
 
 Need heart-print accents? Go for sunglasses, clutches, scarves and belts. 
 
 Wear the heart-print top (shirt or blouse) with classic flared trousers and killer heels for a polished look. 
 
 Want a flirty look? Go for a heart-print midi skirt and pair it with a designer T-shirt and black blazer. 
 
 If you are wearing heart-shaped jewellery, don’t wear all of it together. Pick one – earrings, rings or neck pieces.
 
