BHOPAL: A strange silence engulfed Bairagarh township when bier carrying bodies of two teenagers were lifted for the last journey. Residents are unable to come to terms with the death of the two young boys in an accident in the BRTS corridor.

 Relatives of the two boys were in tears and inconsolable. Dinesh’s younger brother, who is just 10-year- old, performed the last rites of his brother. He wasn’t able to understand that his brother would never come back. The only thing he kept saying was why my brother was being burnt.
 
 Dinesh’s father Govind said, “I run a tea shop near my house. Since I am barely able to earn enough, Dinesh started working at a sari shop in Bairagarh. He had stopped studying after Class 7 four years ago to financially support the family.”
 
 “Dinesh had shouldered responsibility of the family at a tender age. He was the only support for us. Dinesh wanted his younger brother to study and get a good job and was working hard for it.”
 
 Inconsolable after his son’s death, Govind said, “Dinesh was tired and sleeping. I woke him up in morning and asked him to sit at the shop as I had to get a haircut. But he refused to do so saying he had to get his mark-sheet from school. He took scooter’s keys and left.”
 
 “After half an hour or so, I received a call that two boys had met with an accident and one of them was Dinesh. First, I did not believe because Dinesh had gone alone, but when the person gave me the colour of vehicle and described Dinesh’s appearance, I rushed to the spot. But people present there had taken him to Hamidia hospital by then.”
 
 “Dinesh was dear to all in the locality. I don’t know how we will manage to live without him,” he said.
 
 Parents of Vaibhav were filled with anger against BRTS bus driver and conductor, who allegedly fled the spot after the incident. Talking to TOI, they alleged “The two could have been saved if police rushed our children to hospital on time.”
 
 Vaibhav’s father Rakesh said, “If bus driver and conductor would not have fled and took children to hospital, maybe our child could have been saved. Even dial 108 ambulance did not reach the spot on time.   (BMC) vehicle took them to a nearby hospital where Vaibhav was declared dead.”
 
 “Twelve hours have passed, police have no idea about driver of the bus. Police say they are yet to identify the bus driver. Vaibhav was topper of his class. Since none of the family member is educated enough, he had a dream to study and become an officer in future,” Rakesh said.
 
 “Two months later, on April 23, it is his birthday. I was planning to buy him a new cycle on his birthday on April 23. He was asking for it for past one year,” said Rakesh with tears rolling down his eyes.
 
