GURUGRAM:   in Gurugram have called for a bandh across the district on Monday, as part of the nation-wide bandh called by   to protest against the Supreme Court’s recent order, banning automatic arrests under the SC/ST Act. Dalits have requested traders from other communities to support their protest. 

 A member of a Dalit association said they won’t allow other shops or markets to open either, which means there’s a possibility of markets across the district remaining closed on Monday.
 
 The   had recently banned automatic arrests and registration of criminal cases under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. 
 
 This has not gone down well with SCs and STs, who said this will dilute the law.
 
 Protesters will gather at Kamla Nehru Park at 10am on Monday, and march to the mini secretariat, carrying mock funeral pyres of the two Supreme Court judges who gave the order, as well as Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President  . The effigies will be set on fire at the mini secretariat.
 
 “We’ll submit a memorandum to the deputy commissioner, addressed to the President of India, Prime Minister and Chief Justice of India, mentioning that the latest Supreme Court order will weaken the Act, defeating the purpose of an Act to protect the marginalised. These judges are anti-national and are working against the Constitution,” said Dalit social activist Satpal Tanwar.
 
 Most Dalit-owned businesses in Gurugram are located in Sadar Bazar. Here, you’ll find Dalit cloth merchants, printing press owners, transporters, timber merchants, etc. 
 
 They have requested all market associations in the district to extend their support to the cause. They have also threatened a chakka jam (road blockade).
 
 “It’s advisable that traders do not open their shops on Monday, else we’ll close and lock those. We have requested the administration to support us. If we’re not allowed to protest peacefully, we’ll be forced to block traffic, including on the national highway,” said Anil Tanwar, national head, Akhil Bhartiya Bhim Sena.
 
 The community has taken to social media to spread their message of protest. 
 
 “This is the first time Dalits are coming together to raise their voice for a cause. This SC order is just another way to oppress Dalits, and we’ll fight against it tooth and nail,” said Nisha, an advocate from Gurugram representing the Dalit advocacy group Nigahen (Ek Naya Badlaav).
 
 
