Before the final of the 1934 World Cup, the Italian dictator   aired a radio documentary which proclaimed the true origins of football was in   in the 16th century. That's classic fascism at work and what else to expect in a tournament hijacked by a regime eager to show its power to the world through football as a propaganda machine. 

 
 
 In the times of economic depression, there was no trouble for Mussolini to get the World Cup to Italy as only Sweden were there as a real competitor for the hosting rights. Defending champions   did not take part as a show of protest against European nations who had not travelled to their country four years earlier.  , at loggerheads with  , did not turn up either as 16 teams -- 12 from Europe, 3 from the Americas and one from Africa -- qualified for the World Cup. 
 
 In a bid to display the ruthless efficiency of his fascist regime, Mussolini decided all the matches would be knockout affairs played simultaneously. So the World Cup kicked off at eight cities simultaneously on May 27, 1934. A casualty was the attendance despite bombarding people with World Cup stamps and posters. The radio broadcasts would talk of stadiums brimming with people though. 
 
 On the field, Italy faced Spain in a controversy-ridden quarterfinal. Several players were injured in a nasty affair which ended in a 1-1 draw and a replay had to be played the very next day with Spain needing to make seven changes to their side. Italy duly won the replay 1-0 as Spain had two goals ruled out in a suspicious manner. 
 
 Italy beat Austria to enter final where they would meet Czechoslovakia who had overcome Germany. Before the final in Rome, Mussolini famously told the Azzuris "If the Czechs play fair, we’ll play fair. That’s the most important thing, but if they want to play dirty, then we Italians have to play dirtier." 
 
 Angelo Schiavio's extra-time goal capped off a sensational 2-1 comeback win for Italy. For the second time in a row, the host country lifted the Jules Rimet trophy but this time, along with it there was a special cup commissioned by Mussolini which was six times larger than the original trophy. Who knows whether Czechoslovakia would have received it had they won the final? But would they ever have?
 
 Top goalscorer: Oldrich Nejedlý - Czechoslovakia - 5 goals
 
 
