CHANDIGARH:   Board of Finance (BoF) on Thursday approved the recommendation to get the audit of research projects and consultancy projects done by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG)-empanelled chartered accountant (CA) firms. 

 Earlier, the audit was conducted by the local audit department of the Chandigarh administration. This will be forwarded to the syndicate now.
 
 Sources said it was discussed in the meeting that one has to follow all the accounts manual rules. Earlier, pre-audit was common, but now the audit will be post-audit except for those projects and schemes which are more than Rs 5 lakh since the Panjab University accounts manual states that projects more than Rs 5 lakh have to be pre-audited.
 
 A committee constituted to make recommendations in this regard, in its meeting on December 19, 2017, had proposed that the audit of accounts of the research projects being undertaken by the faculty members should be done by CAG-empanelled CA firms.
 
 It was discussed in the meeting that this decision is expected to facilitate the principal investigators (PIs) to complete their research project objectives within the defined time lines for the project. This will give a further impetus to research in Panjab University and firmly establish its reputation as a global player. 
 
 The committee observed that faculty members with research projects at the   have been raising concerns about delay in processing of files related to research schemes or extramural grants, which is adversely affecting their research potential. 
 
 The most important concern is the delayed submission of utilisation certificate, which the funding agencies require for timely release of grants. Without the  , further release of grants is not allowed.
 
 It was discussed in the meeting that the principal investigator is also under obligation to comply with the specific time schedules approved by the funding agencies for completion of such research projects; this is delayed because of delay on the part of audit.
 
 "Resultantly, the university research or consultancy work suffers as delay in submission of utilisation certificates or processing of documents dampens the spirit of faculty members seeking extramural funds; this may affect the standing, ranking and credibility of the Panjab University ," stated the committee.
 
 The Punjab government agreed to release the previous arrears of Rs 17.94 crore in three instalments of Rs 6 crore each, starting from 2018-19 in addition to their annual contribution.
 
