CHARMINAR: Heaps of garbage piled up on the road and unpleasant stench wafting from the trash cans filled with waste is defacing the 24-feet high historical  , one of the eight entrances to   Fort. Buffaloes, goats and stray dogs can be seen rummaging through garbage on the road and in the trash cans. 

 According to the residents, this pathway was used to import pearls and diamonds into the monument centuries ago. But presently, the stench of garbage welcomes tourists who visit the historic monuments as waste is dumped right at the entrance of Moti Darwaza.
 
 "The   ( ) has placed garbage bins right at the entrance of Moti Darwaza, which has made the situation worse. Now, people think they can dump garbage in the area," Mohammed Akram, a social worker said.
 
 Akram said if GHMC's waste collection trucks do not collect garbage for a single day, then   is accumulated at the entrance of Moti Darwaza, creating problems for residents as well as tourists visiting the area.
 
 Moti Darwaza is one of the eight entrances to Golconda Fort. The other entrances are Jamali Darwaza, Macca Darwaza, Fateh Darwaza, Banjara Darwaza, Bahamani Darwaza, Patancheru Darwaza and Naya Qila Darwaza.
 
 These gateways, which are more than 400-year-old, are located at prime directions leading to important destinations in the city.
 
 However, it seems like the archaeology department and the civic authorities have completely failed to take any steps to restore and preserve the heritage structure.
 
 "Though Hyderabad is a repository of heritage and architecture, these historic creations, which are one of the most fascinating of them, are undervalued by the residents as well as authorities," P Anuradha Reddy, Convenor of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) said.
 
 When contacted, deputy commissioner of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, Pradeep Kumar, said, "We will send out representatives and ensure that the garbage is cleared from that area at the earliest."
 
 
