SURAT/AHMEDABAD: When the results for   (CAT), 2017, conducted by   (IIMs) were announced on Monday, it was revealed that   Meet Agarwal had scored 100 percentile. But, those who know him are not surprised. This is because Meet (20), a student of chartered accountancy (CA) course, has many achievements to his credit, be it sports or music. 

 Son of a textile businessman in the city, Meet started preparing for interviews at IIM-Ahmedabad and IIM-Bangalore soon after the results were announced. “I could score good marks due to months of preparation and regular practice of online tests. I stressed on taking online tests than just reading books,” Meet told TOI.
 
  
  
 Two brothers from Ahmedabad also cracked CAT. Gitanj Sheth (22) and his younger brother Viraj Sheth (21) scored 99.86 and 99.95 percentile respectively in CAT and are now sure of securing admission in any of the IIMs or other premier management schools in the country. 
 
 This was second attempt for mechanical engineer Gitanj, who attempted this time with his brother Viraj. “Last time, I secured 98.79 percentile, so this time I started preparation again with my brother and my experience did help him also,” said Gitanj adding that he wants to get into IIM-A, B or C (codes by CAT aspirants for IIM-Ahmedabad, IIM-Bangalore and IIM-Calcutta). 
 
 Viraj, a final year student of bachelor of technology in computer science, said they have together shared the thoughts on how to get success in CAT and to go further in business management. “Our father Apurva Sheth, who has six degrees and mother, who authors books on child development, inspired us to pursue CAT and we are happy to have cracked it together,” the younger one said.
 
 They, however, want to study in different IIMs and pursue different careers in their lives.
 
 “I think any student can score good marks if he or she works with focus. I will join my father’s business after completing my Masters of Business Administration (MBA),” Meet said. The 20-year-old is following his elder sister Stuti’s footsteps, who completed her MBA from IIM-Udaipur, and is currently coaching school students in the city.
 
 Meet secured fifth position in the country in CA-Common Proficiency Test examination and is currently doing his final year of Bachelor of Commerce from a college in Surat. Meet was a topper in CBSE class XII examination too with a 97.2% in Gujarat. Meet’s feat of performing 47 musical instruments in seven minutes at the age of 11 was registered in Limca Book of Records. He had also performed Bharatnatyam on roller skates during his childhood. He has won many skating competitions at national level when is very young and participated in under-14 chess competitions at Asian Games and Commonwealth Games. He was captain of Gujarat team in the table tennis tournaments and represented the state at the national level.
 
 “I like playing table tennis and chess and regularly participate in the competitions. Sports keep you fit and help to do better in studies,” Meet added. Meet’s mother Mina teaches Bharatnatyam and other dance forms on roller skates. Her groups participate in many reality shows on television. 
 
 
