Anushka has managed to live up to her tag of “Tollywood’s Lady Superstar” with a stellar performance in 'Bhaagamathie' which opened to positive reviews on Republic Day. The actress however, is unwilling to take credit for the accolades coming her way. “A lot of preparation went into the role. It was challenging, but we worked together as a team to achieve it. Every day, I would sit with the director, producers and cinematographers and we would have long discussions about the movie and characterisation. Every detail of the movie was well planned out and that helped me a great deal in prepping for this role,” explains Anushka. 

 Director Ashok has earned praise from critics for his attention to detail and the way he keeps the audience guessing all through the film. Heaping praise on him, Anushka says, “This is the first time that I have worked with Ashok and it was a wonderful experience. He’s extremely knowledgeable, not just about films but other things in life. He’s highly skillful and knows what he’s doing. What I loved about 'Bhaagamathie' is its screenplay. It’s gripping and engaging, and I was delighted to be a part of it. I’m very comfortable doing a film for UV creations and I’m grateful that they had waited this long for me to do this film.” 
 
 Anushka has risen to become one of the most dependable stars in a heavily male-dominated industry, having churned out blockbusters on her own with films like ' ' and ' '. But she doesn’t like being referred to as the ‘Lady Superstar’. “I don’t believe in tags, and I just like to go about my work. It all started with 'Arundhati'. People suddenly took notice and more female-centric roles started to come my way. I’ve been fortunate that good scripts came my way. But they don’t always have to be female-centric, no matter what the genre, the character should have some significance to it. That’s all I look for,” the 36-year-old points out. 
 
 Anushka’s rise to become Tollywood’s Queen Bee has served as an inspiration to hundreds of aspiring young actresses. she has a simple success mantra: “It’s a lot of hard work. All the glamour that you see on-screen is not what the film industry is all about. To succeed, one must work hard and be level-headed.”
 
 Produced by Vamsi Krishna Reddy and Pramod under UV Creations, 'Bhaagamathie' is running in theatres.
 
