Panaji/Vasco/Ponda: As the controversial Bollywood film Padmaavat is set to release across the country on Thursday, police personnel were already seen monitoring the situation outside the Inox multiplex on Wednesday evening in the capital city. Inquiries for ticket bookings for the period drama were pouring in at the four INOX multiplexes in Goa, but the multiplex is telling its customers that the screening schedule change of the week is yet to be released by its head office in Mumbai.

 The multiplex’s representative said that police were alerted to ensure security. “We have written to the   to secure our premises and they have given us the contact numbers to call for deployment whenever we need it. But there is no confirmation on the screening of Padmaavat from our head office in Mumbai,” said Rajeshwar Tiwari, Inox manager (security and administration).
 
 The Multiplex Association of India, however, said it has decided not to screen the film in four states, including Goa, in view of the violence that has erupted elsewhere in the country. “We have decided not to play the film in four states—Rajasthan, Gujarat, MP and Goa—as the local management has told us that the law and order situation is not conducive,” Deepak Asher, president of the association, said.
 
 Goa has one Inox multiplex in Panaji, one in Porvorim and two in Margao, besides a number of smaller local cinema halls across the state. Police officials said that police personnel will be deployed outside all theatres in Goa on Thursday.
 
 As the film premiered on January 24, two shows—at 7pm and 10pm—in 3D were screened at 1930 Vasco in Goa, both of which went house full. The screening took place under police protection, but no untoward incident was reported. 
 
 “We are a bit worried, but have informed the local administration and they are with us,” said 1930 Vasco owner M Rahman.
 
 Bookings for Thursday’s shows of Padmaavat have already begun online for three local cinema halls in Goa—Cine Lata in Margao, Cine Samrat in Panaji and 1930 Vasco. 1930 Vasco has five shows each of the 2D and 3D version of the film lined up on January 25.
 
 The film was also screened at Ponda’s 'Carnival' multiplex on Wednesday evening. 
 
 South Goa superintendent of police   said, “Police personnel will be deployed starting Thursday morning, not just at Inox but all cinema halls to ensure security. The earliest screening of the film in Goa in a cinema hall begins at 9.30am”
 
 
