NAGPUR:   could not believe her eyes when the online results page displayed her score at 96.3%, making her the probable Vidarbha topper at least, if not of the state, in commerce. Student of Adarsh Vidya Mandir, Nidhi set a new record for the city too as such a high score in this stream has not been witnessed for as long as anyone can remember. 

 
 
 
 “I feel absolutely elated, but unfortunately my parents are not in town to celebrate with me. I am celebrating it with my younger brother and relatives tonight,” said Nidhi. 
 
 Being a CA aspirant, Nidhi used to study for over five hours other than school and tuition classes. “I used to study for whatever little time I had after attending regular college and tuition classes for CPT. Half of my concepts got cleared in the classroom itself, so the time left afterwards was quite sufficient for self-study,” she said.
 
 She lives in a nuclear family along with her parents and a younger brother Deep who is a Std IX student and wants to follow his sister’s footsteps. “He is very happy and nervous at the same time, because he fears he will not be able to recreate history,” Nidhi joked.
 
 Her father, Kamlesh Suchak, a private employee, describes his daughter as a shy person. “She has a very calm and composed demeanour, but an equally sharp brain. She has always been an inquisitive child and had an interest towards seeking knowledge,” he said. 
 
 Her mother, Seema, a homemaker, feels proud that her daughter has secured first position in the city. “I never expected Nidhi to be the city topper and neither did we pressurize her for it. I just knew that she would be a high scorer in college. We didn’t have to push her for her studies and she always managed them on her own,” said her mother.
 
 Apart from  , Nidhi is also inclined towards arts. A music enthusiast and a painter, she loves to watch movies, a hobby due to which her parents had to disconnect their cable connection at home. “My parents were scared that I wouldn’t score good marks because I used to watch so many movies. I am not attracted towards social media and never owned a cell phone. But now that results are out, I will enjoy my life in this one month of holidays,” she said.
 
 
