KOCHI: After a delay of almost two years, piped natural gas (PNG) connections under the   is picking up. In the past three months, the number of households which got   connection has gone up to 900 from 110. 

 
 IOC-Adani Gas Private Limited (IOAGPL), the implementing agency, has started registration for PNG connections in Eloor, Aluva, Thrikkakara and Maradu municipalities besides   municipality where the facility was already available.
 
 IOAGPL officials said that they are targeting 50,000 connections by the end of the current fiscal. The project, inaugurated in February 20, 2016 by former chief minister Oommen Chandy, failed to gain traction because of apprehensions regarding the safety of PNG.
 
 "Despite the adverse campaign, we could provide connections to 110 households in the first few months. People are now convinced about the safety and merits of the PNG. We have also started campaigns on social media and other platforms. Many have now evinced interest in securing the connections," he said. The IOAGPL authorities are planning to start more aggressive campaigns from July.
 
 All the 900 connections were given in wards 10,12, 13, 14 and 20 of Kalamassery municipality. "We have opened the registration process in municipalities of Aluva, Eloor, Thrikkakara and Maradu. We won't be able to give connections in June, July and August due to ban on digging up roads for laying pipes and would be focussing on registration and campaigns for promoting the natural gas," sources associated with the project said.
 
 The registration can be sought by a submitting a prescribed form together with the ID proof of a family member and residential certificate. The consumer should pay an installation charge of Rs 5,600.
 
 "I have been using PNG for the past three months. The first bimonthly bill came to Rs 500. When we were using LPG, a cylinder would be over in 45 days. It is cost effective and we don't have to wait for the   distributers when the cylinder turns empty. We need to just turn the tap and use. It is simple and convenient," said V S Aboobacker, councillor representing ward 10 of Kalamassery municipality. Residents of the ward had raised apprehensions against the project in 2016 but become convinced after they found people in neighbouring wards using it safely. 
 
