Chandigarh: Nine nominated   will not able to   in the mayoral elections on January 9 for the first time in the history of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) in 22 years. A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court comprising Chief Justice of India Dipak Misra, on Friday, adjourned the case related to their voting rights to January 15, implying the ruling of the high court against them will prevail till the next date of hearing.

 Lawyers of all the parties were present before the bench, which included Justice A M Khanwilkar and Justice DY Chandrachud, after the apex court notice.
 
 Tushar Mehta and Chandar Prakash, appearing for the UT administration, briefed the court about the case. “We told the court aware about the case, including its status. After hearing all the aspects, the court adjourned the matter and fixed January 15 as the next date of hearing,” said Prakash, standing counsel of the UT administration.
 
 Petitioner Satinder Kumar, a former councillor, had sought directions for quashing of provisions contained in Section 4 of the Punjab Municipal Corporation Act, as amended and extended to Chandigarh municipal corporation in 1994, conferring voting rights to the nine nominated councillors
 
 Satinder Singh along with his counsel Baltej Singh Sidhu also appeared in the court. While talking to TOI, Sidhu said, “We told the court about the Article 243 R in the Constitution, according to which the government can nominate persons in the MC who are experts in municipal service but they don’t have the right to vote.”
 
 Sources said the court initially fixed January 22 as the next date, then January 29 and finally decided on January 15.
 
 Box:
 
 The man behind the case
 
 Former BJP councillor Satinder Singh had moved the Punjab and Haryana high court demanding nominated councillors be denied voting rights in August 2016. He had argued that as councillors are nominated by the UT administrator and not elected, they can’t vote in the mayoral elections as per constitutional provisions. After going through all the legal, constitutional and related aspects for almost one year, a bench comprising the then acting Chief Justice of Punjab and Haryana high court, Surinder Singh Saron, and Justice Avneesh Jhingan in August 2017 annulled their voting rights
 
 OUT IN THE COLD
 
 (Meet the nine nominated councillors who had voted in the mayoral elections in 2017 but will not be getting inked this time)
 
 Charanjiv Singh
 
 Former president of Chandigarh Beopar Mandal, an umbrella body of traders of Chandigarh
 
 Ajay Dutta
 
 A functionary of Bharat Vikas Parishad, an outfit affiliated to RSS. Dutta is known as a leading social worker in the city.
 
 Sachin Kumar Lohtiya 
 
 A former Chandigarh BJP office-bearer, he had contested the civic body elections on a BJP ticket in the past but lost 
 
 Haji Mohammad Khurshid Ali
 
 A former president of BJP’s minority cell, Ali remained the prominent minority face of the saffron party in the past
 
 Dr Jyotsna Wig
 
 A former PGI doctor, Wig is close to some BJP leaders
 
 Shipra Bansal
 
 Shipra Bansal is the daughter of BJP’s Mahila Morcha member Sabina Bansal
 
 Sat Parkash Aggarwal
 
 A former Congress elected councillor, Aggarwal is a renowned trader in the city. Aggarwal is also close to city MP Kirron Kher
 
 Kamla Sharma
 
 The former Chandigarh BJP president was elected the first mayor of Chandigarh in 1996
 
 Maj Gen M S Kandal
 
 The ex-serviceman is a social activist. He is largely known to hold free medical camps in and surrounding areas of Chandigarh
 
 
