GUWAHATI: National record-holder para-cyclist   is facing a struggle in raising funds to buy a bicycle and other necessary equipment for the Special Olympics World Summer Games, which will be held in March 2019 in  . The 17-year-old had qualified for the Special Olympics using borrowed cycles earlier this year. 

 At the Cycling NCC-cum-national championship, which was held at Jharkhand in January 2018,   got the first position in both the 5-kilometre time trial and 10-kilometre time trial events. His 10-km timing of 19 minutes and 21 seconds, which is the 12th fastest in the world in the Special Olympics category, earned him a spot at the 2019 Games. 
 
 Born with cerebral palsy, Abhishek lost his father to cancer a few years ago. He currently practises on borrowed cycles and has also taken part in major competitions using such borrowed cycles.
 
 Arshel Akhter, an avid cyclist based in Guwahati, has started an online campaign through ketto.org to gather a sum of Rs 1.5 lakh to buy a cycle and other necessary items for Abhishek's participation in the Special Olympics. 
 
 "Abhishek is a wonderful kid with lot of potential to do well in sports. But unfortunately, his family's financial condition is not good enough to afford all the necessary equipment. Now if we can gather some money, it will be helpful for him. We can buy a good cycle for him before he goes to attend the national training camp in   from June 19 for the Special Olympics," Arshel told TOI on Tuesday. 
 
 The campaign, which has received some support from donors already, was started on May 13 and will go on till May 27.
 
 Abhishek's mother,  , said she is the sole bread earner in the family and does not have the resources to fund his dream with what is left after providing for him and his younger sister. "Since childhood, he liked to ride bicycles. He has hurt himself by falling off cycles many times. And that is how he learnt. If we get some support, my son's dream can be fulfilled," said his mother. 
 
 Abhishek, who also plays cricket besides cycling, said he will try his best to bring an Olympic medal if he is given a cycle.
 
 
