HYDERABAD: Eight people were nabbed by the enforcement wing of prohibition and excise department for illegal trade of duty-free foreign liquor. Booze kingpin Harish Singh, a resident of  , is also in the net. The intrepid criminal would churn out a monthly turnover of ₹50 lakh from his trade.

 Talking to reporters, enforcement director   said Harish Singh and his aides, Rajesh, Bhaskar, Gopi Krishna,  , Niranjan Reddy and   were arrested.
 
 On Saturday, a bus carrying 220 duty-free foreign liquor bottles from Chennai to Hyderabad was intercepted. The bus and the mammoth cache of liquor bottles have been seized.
 
 During investigation, excise sleuths came to know that Singh had been illegally sourcing foreign liquor from   port and airport through an intricate network of agents. Police suspect, the pilferage point is at Chennai customs godown and many gangs access foreign liquor bottles. Later, this is illegally transported to Hyderabad. Kingpin Harish Singh has been selling foreign liquor at a comparatively competitive price than what’s available at liquor stores.
 
 The liquor is manufactured in   and Malaysia and transported to Chennai sea port, where some insiders play a key role in the pilferage of bottles.
 
 “Every month, Harish sells at least 1,000 bottles in the twin cities and has Rs 50-lakh turnover. Travel bus operators have been warned that if duty-free liquor bottles are illegally transported their buses would be seized,” a police officer said.
 
 “We feel someone in the customs department at Chennai Seaport has a key role in fueling the illicit trade. Harish and other big players are tipped off by agents at the Chennai port and the consignment is delivered. The inside hand should be caught,” an excise officer said.
 
 In 2014, Harish was arrested and released and since then he has been evading enforcement authorities despite mounting cases. Harish Singh is the points-person for sale and delivery of foreign liquor.
 
 A fugitive  , resident of  , another key player in sourcing foreign liquor bottles from various international airports, was also nabbed by authorities three days ago. Several months ago, excise officials busted an illegal trade of piliferage at RGI Airport and the customs department came under the scanner.
 
