MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate on Thursday seized nine cars — including a Rolls-Royce Ghost, a Porsche Panamera and a Mercedes-Benz — belonging to   and froze shares and mutual funds collectively worth Rs 95 crore that belong to him and his uncle,  . 

 
 The seizures were made as part of their investigation of possible money laundering in the Rs 11,300 crore Punjab National Bank scam. When added to the frozen shares and deposits, the cost of the luxury vehicles takes the value of Thursday’s seizures beyond Rs 100 crore.
 
 The   seized the vehicles from the Samudra Mahal residence of Nirav Modi in Mumbai and pasted notices on his flats stating the cars could not be used or sold. They also served a copy of the notice to the Samudra Mahal society and its security unit. The ED, which has no parking space, has decided to keep the vehicles at the Samudra Mahal parking lot and will approach the appropriate authority to auction the vehicles.
 
  
  
 
 Officials said on Wednesday that while examining Nirav’s flats they learnt that the family owned several expensive vehicles parked on the premises. ED officials instructed the building’s security staff not to allow anyone to use the vehicles, and contacted the RTO to verify in whose names the vehicles were registered. They seized the cars after the RTO confirmed they were registered in the names of Nirav Modi or his firms.
 
 Some of these luxury vehicles, bearing VIP numbers like 5 or 8, were used by the Modi family while visiting India. Single-digit registration numbers cost extra and are sometimes auctioned to the highest bidder. 
 
 Meanwhile, the investigating agencies learned that Nirav had brought money into India in the form of foreign direct investment (FDI) in one of his companies. Part of the money from the company account was diverted to the Nirav Modi Foundation, which claims that it does charity work. Government agencies are probing whether Nirav laundered money through the FDI route.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that Diamonds R Us, one of Nirav’s firms accused of defrauding the bank, had provided its official address at Prasad Chamber. When TOI visited the address, it was being used by Nirav Modi Foundation. Sources said the office is used for “charity activities” but could not provide much detail about the charity work undertaken by the owners. The foundation’s website states that its contact address is at Trade Point building in Kamala Mills Compound, Lower Parel, and that it helps bright students from disadvantaged backgrounds.
 
 The CBI and the ED had registered two separate sets of cases of cheating and money laundering against Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi, their firms, and others associated with the alleged crime. Nirav’s company had secured a letter of understanding (LoU) from   which asked an associated bank to make overseas payments on their behalf. Nirav secured this facility on producing an allegedly fake import receipt. 
 
 
