HYDERABAD: Apartment owners at Ameerpet’s  , which was developed by   (owned by panchayat raj minister Jupally   and later his son Arun), have alleged they were duped by the infrastructure firm.

 The 10-storey building with 169 flats was constructed by   in the early 2000s. Later, Jupally Krishna Rao’s sons Arun and Varun pledged three flats — 1003, 1004 and 1005 — in Royal Pavillion with State Bank of India and availed loans. 
  
 After they defaulted on the loans, SBI put these flats up for auction. The bank has received bids for the flats and the amount is likely to be realised soon. The Royal Pavillion residents have accused the developer of collecting huge amounts from them with the promise of providing facilities but failed to do so.
 
 “The developer has not only not completed painting the outside wall of the apartment complex till date, no fire-fighting equipment has been provided for either. The flat owners’ association approached the GHMC commissioner, the municipal administration department and the governor a few years ago about the lack of fire safety equipment but no action was taken against Jupally Krishna Rao since he is an influential politician,” said VM Moorthy, a Royal Pavillion resident.
 
 The apartment owners alleged that Krishna Rao’s brother got the apartment owners’ welfare association registered along with some friends by producing a false affidavit before the Registrar of Societies and collected huge amounts from owners, for which no audit was conducted.
 
 Interestingly, in 2002, ACB had registered a case against Jupally Krishna Rao, who was then a Congress MLA, and three officials of erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) on charges of tampering with records and raising the height of Royal Pavillion to 10 floors when Krishna Rao was managing director of  .
 
 “The erstwhile MCH permitted   to construct only five floors but it raised two more floors illegally and applied for building regularisation scheme. While the BRS was pending, the firm sought permission for construction of 11 floors and started adding more floors. Finally, 10 floors were completed. Since documents on fee collections and permissions were tampered with, the ACB booked cases against Krishna Rao and three MCH officials,” a senior GHMC official said.
 
 When contacted, staff at Jupally Krishna Rao’s office told TOI that the minister was busy in his assembly constituency Kollapur and would react to media reports on various issues and allegations only on Wednesday.
 
 
