KOCHI/ THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: At least 3,600   aspirants from Tamil Nadu will take the test for their dream course on Sunday — tired, travel-weary and tense. These students had taken buses, trains, cabs and whatever mode of transport came their way to reach exam centres in Ernakulam and Thiruvananthapuram in  .

 Many said the May 3 order of the Supreme Court overturning a Madras high court ruling ordering the CBSE to allot NEET centres within Tamil Nadu came as a blow. Though forced to book tickets and finalise accommodation at short notice, many were relieved to see help desks set up by the Kerala authorities.
 
 Several voluntary organisations in Kerala, and Tamil families living in these cities offered guidance and accommodation. Despite this, the situation at railway stations in these cities was chaotic, as harried students and parents crowded around help desks.
 
 “The help desk was a welcome move. But I still have to travel 46km to the examination centre. Had the test been held in Tamil Nadu, this needless stress could have been avoided,” said G Shithivinayagam, a student from Ariyalur who reached Ernakulam on Saturday.
 
 The Kerala government had arranged help desks at Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Haripad and Ernakulam railway stations and KSRTC bus station at Thampanoor. They assisted students in finding subsidised accommodation near their examination centres and getting transport to those places. The help desks will continue to operate till 7pm on Sunday.
 
 In Thiruvananthapuram, accommodation for boys was arranged at Government Model High School, Thycaud, and for girls at Government Girls High School, Manacaud.
 
 
 
 
 Officials from various government departments will be available at the facilitation centres to assist NEET candidates. Directions for transport facilities for NEET candidates have been given to RTO and the police department has been asked to ensure smooth traffic to exam centres,” said a press release issued by the district administration.
 
 “This was hard for me and my family. I was expecting that I would write the exam in Tamil Nadu and suddenly we had to travel to Kerala,” said S Kiran Kumar, who takes the test at Thripunithura in Kerala.
 
 “I reached Ernakulam at 7.30am in a reserved compartment, which was crammed from Trichy to Kochi. Though I tried calling the NEET call centres, there was no response.”
 
 “I have been in touch with district collectors from Tamil Nadu and have been trying to identify their needs so that we can better cater to them and ensure that the students are able to write the examination without much hassle,” said Ernakulam district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla.
 
 Nandhini Seshadri of Trichy, working with an IT company in Kochi, visited the railway station to help students in need. “One of the biggest concerns for NEET candidates from Tamil Nadu was figuring out the route to reach the examination centre. We assured them that we would arrange cabs and ensure that they reached the destination on time,” she said.
 
 B Karthikeyan, a senior manager with a petroleum firm in Ernakulam, arrived at the station around 8am to help the students. “They were quite confused, as many of them were not expecting this travel,” said Karthikeyan.
 
 As many as 33,160 students are taking the exam in Ernakulam at 58 centres.
 
 In Thiruvananthapuram district, as many as 24,000 students will be appearing for NEET to be held in 34 centres.
 
