CHIRAPATLA (Betul): When teachers dash from class to class in a government School located on a hilltop in Chirapatla village of Betul, 37-year-old   takes his time. Stick in hand, he methodically manoeuvres around obstacles, hearing every squeal coming from the whirl of children around him.

 Meet Bhopal’s blind history teacher who teaches hundreds of students at a remote place, 200km from home. You would think his class would be the noisiest, and his kids the naughtiest. But when he teaches, no one as much as murmurs. He has an uncanny sense of who sits where, and his finger unerringly points in the right direction.
 
 Blessed with perfect inner vision, Parmar has been the guiding light for hundreds of students, some of whom have made it to the state civil services.
 
 TOI sits in one of his classes and it’s easy to see why he is an inspiration. The 30 kids are rapt attention as he teaches them about Vedic Era. He speaks softly yet in a clear voice.
 
 “Sanjay explain what I said,” Parmar points his finger at the boy. The way he uses his other senses does leave you goggle-eyed.
 
 “He has set an example for persons with disability. We never miss his class. He exemplifies that nothing is impossible if one is determined,” says  , one of his students.
 
 Ask him, and he says it’s because of his students that his confidence has grown manifold. “They never made me feel that I can’t see them. It is their quality that keeps me going,” Parmar said, smiling. The symbiotic relationship is touching.
 
 He knew his teaching style would be different, but he is inventive enough to find ways to help the students understand in the easiest manner, said a colleague.
 
 
 
 Many of his students have made it to the civil services. He is not only a great teacher but a great mentor as well. He guides students in various activities as he possesses an ocean of knowledge and often leaves us spellbound,” said his colleague,  .
 
 He is very active on social media and is fondly known as ‘master of computers’ among his colleagues and students. “Whenever the computer goes crazy, he fixes it in seconds,” said another teacher,  . Every day, his colleagues make sure to pick him up and drop him home.
 
 Parmar recalls his fight with the darkness. “It took me three years to accept that I had turned completely blind. A famous coaching centre in MP Nagar, Bhopal, denied me admission to prepare for civil services presuming I would become a hurdle for the rest of the classmates,” Parmar said.
 
 He lost his vision when he was 19. By then, he had lost his father,  , who was a cashier with RBI. Beating all odds, he passed Class XII in second division — without using a writer. “I would seek the help of invigilators, who happily read out the question paper to me and I used to write my answers with my totally blurred vision,” he recalled.
 
 One of his teachers, Urvashi Karla, proved to be a pillar of support, he said. “She helped me learn Braille and get admission in college. When all of my friends had made it to postgraduation, my teacher was helping me learn Braille. But I didn’t give up. I kept going despite many challenges and that is how I became a successful teacher,” he added.
 
 Parmar even cracked the IAS prelims and wanted to take coaching for the mains but was denied admission. Undeterred, he took to teaching. And became a national-level chess player. He has won many national and statelevel competitions. But his true trophies are his students, he says.
 
 “They are the most amazing. And my teachers, friends, colleagues and mother, who believed in me,” he says, with a smile. And was that a twinkle in his eyes?
 
