NEW DELHI: A   swept through a   in east Delhi’s   on Monday afternoon,   a  ,   over   and leaving  . 

 While the reason behind the fire was yet to be ascertained, it had spread rapidly due to the wind and an abundance of inflammable material. Fire officials said they received a call at 1.05pm after which 10 fire tenders were rushed to the spot. When the fire couldn’t be doused even after half an hour, 10 more tenders were pressed to action. The blaze was finally extinguished over an hour later.
 
 For some occupants, it was déjà vu. A similar fire at Seelampur a few years back had left them homeless. “I shifted to this place after my house in Seelampur was gutted. I had never thought that I would have to go through this all over again. I have lost everything and my daughter is missing,” said Petal, a slum dweller, who later found his daughter’s charred body.
 
 Another resident, Jai Singh, said all his life savings were reduced to ashes. He claimed that the situation could have been salvaged had the fire tenders arrived on time. Seventy-one-year old Jamila said she raised an alarm when she saw smoke emanating from one of the shanties. She claimed that by the time fire tenders arrived, the devastation had been total. 
 
 “Around 1pm, I started to choke because of the smoke. First, I thought someone had burned garbage outside my house,” Jamila, a widow who has a family of five to take care of, said. “I started screaming and alerted everyone. As I ran out with my son, I saw the roof collapse behind us,” she added.
 
 Services on the Delhi Metro’s Red Line (Dilshad Garden-Rithala) were suspended for more than one hour as a precautionary measure. “At 1.15pm, heavy smoke was reported to have originated from the nearby slums beneath the viaduct between Mansarovar Park and Shahdara metro stations. As a precautionary measure, train services were suspended between three stations between Dilshad Garden and Mansarovar Park during this period,” DMRC said in a statement. 
 
 “Rest of the line remained unaffected. At 2.33pm, normal services were resumed after due clearances,” it added. 
 
 “Although our metro train system is fireproof, we could not take chances and run the trains through smoke, which could have hampered the visibility as well. We suspended the operations the moment it occurred to us that it could pose some threat,” an official said.
 
 Police said they had registered a case and were trying to find out the cause of the fire. The affected families would be shifted to temporary tents, officials said.
 
 
