A patient living near Minto Pa-rk had to be transported to Belle Vue Clinic across the road; the   demanded Rs 500. A neighbour was taken to Woodlands nearly 4 km away earlier this week; the ambulance charged Rs 700.

 Octogenarian Rina Mukherjee travels from her home in Lansdowne Market to a nursing home for dialysis half-a-kilometre away twice a week. The to-and-fro trip costs her Rs 650. All that the rickety Maruti Omni “ambulance” offers is a stretc-her. “For oxygen, you have to tell us in advance. It costs Rs 200 extra,” says the ambulance driver.
 
 The arrest of a mechanic, who posed as a doctor and accompanied a critically ill patient in an ambu-lance from Burdwan to a Kolkata hospital on Saturday, has blown the lid off the exploitative practices that have become the norm in one of the most vital services in the healthcare sector. A TOI survey of the sector on Saturday — a day after Madhyamik examinee Arijit Das died after a horror ride in an “ambulance” — revealed the two biggest problems that patients faced had to do with the two most important aspe-cts of the trade: the price and the facilities on offer.
 
 So a ride of less than 5 km may cost you more than Rs 1,800. But, if you are lucky, you could be paying Rs 1,500 for a 25-km journey. And, then, there is a “by-lane fee”, which again varies wildly, that most operators charge if your home does not happen to be on the main road. Needless to say, none of these vehicles is armed with key life-support facilities; some do not even have basics like an oxygen cylinder.
 
 Ambulance contractor Ajay Das, who serves the Lansdowne area, says he levies a minimum charge of Rs 500; thereafter, it is Rs 200 per hour. Ranjan Bera, another ambulance provider who services the Dhakuria belt, admits he charges ad-hoc rates on “contract basis”. “There is no standard rate for ambulances. We ferry poor patients from slums at very low costs, even free at times, and charge a premium from rich patients,” he says.
 
 A visit to the state’s largest government-run hospital, SSKM Hospital, corroborates what the two service providers in Lansdowne and Dhakuria say. A dozen ambulances remain parked near SSKM’s gates at any time of the day. The charges vary wildly; the lack of facilities in the ambulances is a constant.
 
 An ambulance operator there said a journey to Sarat Bose Road could cost Rs 1800 if the ambulance was air-conditioned and had to be fitted with an oxygen cylinder. A bare Omni would cost Rs 1500, he added. Another operator quoted Rs 1200 for a ride to New Alipore from SSKM. “It could go up by Rs 400 if you hire an AC ambulance with an oxygen cylinder,” he said.
 
 Then there is the “by-lane fee” of Rs 100 more if the patient has to be driven into a by-lane off the thouroughfare. And, in case the distance from the main road is more than 500 metres, then the additional charge could even be Rs 200, warns an operator at the Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital (CNMCH); but, here, the average rate is marginally lower than that at SSKM. A ride between CNMCH and Chittaranjan Avenue could cost Rs 1,000 for a non-AC vehicle.
 
 But operators also warn the rates could fluctuate depending on the demand.This is the dull season and the rates are at their lowest. It goes up steeply in winter and during the Durga Puja when both ambulances and drivers are fewer. A hospital spokesperson says at least 25% of the city’s ambulance fleet are used for pandal-hopping trips during the festive season. Some even serve as long-distance taxis.
 
 
