Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday granted two weeks’ time to the CBI to complete its investigation in relation to attack on Haryana finance minister Captain Abhimanyu’s house in Rohtak in February 2016 during the Jat violence.

 Importantly, there is no trace of 19 accused who had already been declared proclaimed offenders (POs) in the case.
 
 Sources said a total of 40 accused were initially named in the main case (FIR number 118) registered on February 27, 2016. Only 12 persons were arrested out of the total. As many as 168 more names surfaced during the disclosure statements of other accused. Thereafter 29 others were arrested. Out of the total arrested persons, 20 accused have been released on bail and 19 declared POs. One person was released by the court from the charges.
 
 On October 6, 2016, the CBI took over the matter, but could arrest only four persons. And even after 18 months of taking over the case, the CBI could not complete the investigation report.
 
 On February 27, the HC had given last chance to the CBI to complete its investigation in the case after which the agency assured the court that the investigation in the case was “likely to be completed.”
 
 However, when the matter came up for hearing on Friday, the CBI informed the HC that it could not complete the investigation and sought some more time. CBI counsel Sumeet Goel, however, gave an assurance to the court that the investigation would be completed within “two weeks”.
 
 Justice A B Chaudhari adjourned the case for May 4.
 
 The matter is pending before the HC in the wake of bunch of petitions filed by several accused including Dilawar Singh, Sudeep Kalkal, Manoj Duhan and others who are allegedly involved in attacking Captain Abhimanyu’s residence during February 2016 Jat violence.
 
 All these accused have been seeking bail on the grounds that they are behind bars for over two years and CBI probe may take long time.
 
 As per the complaint in the case, several persons had attacked and set on fire the house of family of Captain Abhimanyu and tried to burn all the family members living there. However, they were saved by some family members and others present at the spot. The rowdy crowd of agitators smashed and destroyed the kothi (house) and looted articles, including cash and jewelry, worth crores of rupees. Initially, the case was registered at Rohtak police station but later it was handed over to CBI.
 
 Chargesheet likely against those in jail
 
 Sources in the CBI said before May 4, the CBI may submit a chargesheet against the accused who are presently behind bars in the case and may continue its investigation regarding involvement of other persons.
 
 
