COIMBATORE: Three people, including a seven-year-old boy, were killed in separate road accidents in urban and rural Coimbatore in the last two days.

 In the first incident, seven-year-old  , from Badrakaliamman Kovil Street in Udumalpet, was killed on Sunday morning when the car he was travelling in crashed into a median. “B Ganesh   of   was on the was to Palladam from Coimbatore along with his son G Sarvesh and a few others. When the vehicle was nearing the   Air Base, Ganesh Kumar attempted to overtake a bus. But, he lost control over the car, which rammed into a median. It also dashed against a scooter coming from the opposite direction. Kishore, who was travelling in the car, suffered head injuries and died on the spot. Ganesh Kumar and Sarvesh also suffered head injuries. S Ganeshan from   near Karanampettai and his daughter G Ambika who were on the scooter, suffered injuries on their hands and legs. They were admitted at a private hospital at Sulur and   and Hospital (Cmch),” a police officer said.
 
 In the second incident, 69-year-old V Ramakrishnan from Bharathi Nagar at Ganapathy was killed in an accident at Gandhi Maa Nagar on Saturday night when two motorcycles crashed into his moped. “Two underage riders identified as M   of Bharathi Nagar at Ganapathy and R Kannan of Gandhi Maa Nagar were riding on motorcycles in a rash manner. The two-wheelers dashed against the moped and a scooter at Om Sakthi Nagar extension -2 at Gandhi Maa Nagar. Ramakrishnan suffered injuries on his head and right side of the knee. He was rushed to the Cmch, where he died without responding to the treatment,” an officer said. 
 
 In the third mishap, 31-year-old T Senthilprabhu, from Palakkad Road in Pollachi was killed on Pollachi –Palakkad Road at Pollachi on Saturday night. “R Rajesh of Alampadi in Kozhinjampara in Kerala, who was driving the car towards Palakkad, had applied break near the railway gate at Pollachi. Senthilprabhu, who was on his moped, crashed behind the car. He suffered severe head injuries and died despite treatment at the Cmch on Sunday,” an officer told TOI.
 
 
