CHANDIGARH:   Amarinder Singh on Monday ordered setting up special multi-department joint teams in various districts to check   and tax evasion by miners. The teams would be headed by the respective deputy commissioners. The development comes a day after cabinet minister   and   chief Sunil Jakhar had raised the issue of illegal mining.

 Taking serious note of the heavy financial losses to the government, the chief minister said that illegal mining and tax evasion needed to be checked on priority. Special teams at district level would include officials from taxation, mining, revenue and police departments. These teams would be putting up nakas at various places to check illegal mining and tax evasion. The chief minister also made it clear no political interference would be tolerated in the matter.
 
 Chairing a meeting of the mining department on Monday, Amarinder also ordered increased vigil on stone crushers, mainly located in the three districts of Rupnagar, Mohali and Pathankot.
 
 During the meeting, discussions were also held on a proposal to set up a new mining department with manpower to be drawn in from various departments.
 
 It was also pointed out that with two more mining auctions scheduled for February 19 and March 15, the total revenue generation in 2017-18 would increase manifold.
 
 On February 19, there would be auction for 48 sand mines (1.64 crore tonne) and three gravel mines (0.2 crore tonne). While on March 15, 145 mines (2.7 crore tonne) of sand and 18 mines (0.2 crore tonne) of gravel would be put for open bidding.
 
 Mining department officials said 34 mines auctioned so far, which are spread over 329 hectares had not yet become operational.
 
 As and when production in these mines begins, revenue generation would be further augmented and it could go up to Rs 600-800 crore with just 10% increasing in mining production. The chief minister also directed to ensure immediate operationalization of auctioned mines.
 
 Total demand for gravel stands at 2.4 crore tonne of which only 16% is currently being met from official supply. Whereas for sand, 35% of the 1.6 crore tonne demand is being met from official supply.
 
