Things have changed for the better for Tollywood actor Prince, post his stint in the opening season of Bigg Boss Telugu. The actor, who was last seen in Varun Tej’s Mister as Lavanya Tripathi’s boyfriend, is all gung ho about returning to the silver screen with director Ramesh Samala’s next. “It’s a fun film about friendship and there are four central characters — while myself, the Drushyam actor,   and Priyadarshi Pullikonda from Pelli Choopulu are on board, the hunt for the fourth character is still on. The lead actresses also are yet to be finalised,” reveals Prince, who’s set to start shooting next week.

 Talking more about the film, he adds, “The film is in the Dil Chahata Hai-mould. The story starts when the lead characters are college students and follows their lives as they graduate and progress to their 30s — happy moments, good and bad phases of life, crazy incidents… everything! To sum it up, the film showcases how life changes colours from the time you are in college to how reality hits you after you graduate and experience life outside in the real world. It has the right mix of all emotions.”
 
 That’s not all! Prince is currently undergoing a complete body makeover to look the part. “I play a fun loving guy who’s full mastikhor. I’m undergoing a body makeover. In the past, I’ve hit the gym to gain muscles and bulk up, but this time I’m trying to get leaner like   Rajput. You’ll see me running around the beaches shirtless, sporting boxers,” says the actor and adds, “You’ll also see me in beard and full grown moustache.” 
 Quiz him about his regimen and he shares, “I’m on a body-transformation session and it’s crazy. I hit the gym both in the morning and evening and undergo rigorous training for two hours. Rigorous regimen means strict diet plans as well. Even my diet is kind of crazy; it’s mostly minimal carbs. 
 
 I start my morning with a protein shake at 8 am which includes peanut butter, protein powder, gluten, spinach, almonds and cinnamon. Later, for breakfast I have 6 to 10 egg whites before I head to the gym. I have lunch around 1.30 pm, usually fish with brown rice and eggs. Around 4.30 pm-5 pm, I eat salads with egg or fish. Finally, my last meal is around 7.30 pm, which is grilled fish. And I make sure I go to sleep by 9 pm so that I’m not awake till late, lest I feel hungry again and end up eating,” says Prince, laughing. “I’ll be continuing this diet till the first week of February,” he adds.
 The actor is also in talks for another film and might sign the dotted line soon. “I’ve been hearing quiet a few scripts and might sign one of them, but won’t start shooting till I finish Ramesh Samala’s film. I want to focus on one film at a time and not repeat my past mistakes. I think doing two films at a time is a task,” he says, signing off.
 
