CHANDIGARH: Federation of Sectors’ Welfare Association of Chandigarh ( ) is planning to have   representation in various sub-committees of the association. The agenda will be discussed in the core committee meeting which is scheduled on Sunday.

 Sources said there are two proposals for women representation in Foswac on which the association is working. The association has thought of posts like secretary-hospitality, secretary-public relation and secretary for social and cultural event to be handled by women.
 
 A women’s group will be constituted to handle all these affairs. At present, the Foswac does not have any cell to manage the social and cultural affairs. It will now be constituted by the association and will be handed over to the women representatives of the association to manage. Another proposal is that whenever the Foswac core committee will send officials to the higher authority to raise their issue, two or three women representatives would accompany. At present, no representative of the women’s cell attend such meetings
 
 Baljinder Singh Bittu, chairman of the Foswac, said the issue will be tabled at the core committee meeting on Sunday and a final decision will be taken.
 
 J S Gogia, general secretary, Foswac, said from past six years, he is raising this issue in meetings of the association. He is hopeful that now women will get proper representation in the committees.
 
 In annual general meeting held last month, the women in the RWA raised this issue again and asked why they were never taken as members in any of the committees constituted by the Foswac? There are 74 resident welfare associations (RWAs) which were registered with the Foswac but the women representation is very less in the association.
 
 According to the records, a resident of Chandigarh, Dr Satnam Singh, constituted Foswac in June 1988 to have a pressure group of residents as the authorities were not acting upon the issues which were raised by the residents. There were 12 RWAs which joined their hands to constitute this body for the city. Later on, air marshal Randir Singh held the chairman post for 12 years and later, P C Sanghi for almost 12 years before Baljinder Singh Bittu took over.
 
 In 2015, one of the member Parkash Dhillon, who is presently the vice president of   raised the issue of women representation in a Foswac meet asking why was not she allowed to hold any post in the its core committee. She said that the women raised a demand that a post should be given to a women representative. But till date nothing is done by the association.
 
 
