NEW DELHI:   countered   chief Rahul Gandhi’s accusation that the NaMo app facilitated data theft by saying the leader suffers from “technological illiteracy” as the permissions sought from users are common with almost any smart application.

 
 While BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said Rahul did not understand the basics of smart apps, minister for information and broadcasting Smriti Irani also waded into the war of words, referring to the leader as “Chhota Bheem” in an apparent counter to Congress calling BJP IT cell head   a “dim wit.”
 
 With fierce exchanges breaking out on social media, Patra said, “Gandhi would tweet tomorrow that   and BJP are connected to electronic voting machines through the NaMo app and they have been winning election after election because they have hacked it.” The spokesperson’s words were clearly a reaction to Rahul’s claims that NaMo app secretly records voice and tracks movements. 
 
 Patra alleged Congress was stealing data of 20 crore Indian Facebook users with the help of controversial data firm Cambridge Analytica. “The private firm was allegedly using data theft, sleaze and honey trap to influence the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” he said. With Congress claiming the NaMo app was being used to siphon off data to the US, Patra cited user information sought by various media apps to claim such permissions are demanded routinely by smart applications and do not amount to snooping.
 
 Irani also attacked Rahul on the same theme, saying “Adarniya   ji thanks to NaMo app, at least now you know what NCC is.” She was referring to the Congress leader’s admission during an interaction in Bengaluru that he is not familiar with NCC’s functioning. 
 
 Irani further tweeted, “Rahul Ganhdi ji, even ‘Chhota Bheem’ knows that commonly asked permission on apps don’t tantamount to snooping.” She added, “Now that we're talking tech, would you care to answer @RahulGandhi ji why Congress sends data to Singapore servers which can be accessed by any Tom, Dick and Analytica?”
 
 Irani also referred to Congress app saying, “Ye kya Rahul Ji it seems your team is doing the opposite of what you asked for. Instead of #DeleteNaMoApp, they have deleted the Congress app itself.”
 
 Patra said the new age is one of information and Modi communicates with the masses and BJP cadre through his app, which is something Congress has been unable to do.
 
