

 
 
 
 
 There are some moments which you can never forget. That was probably the best moment of our career since we won the World Cup for the first time in our history. To score the winning goal is always special and to score it to win the World Cup remains the most special one. We were all so happy. That was an unforgettable night.
 
 
 
 
 Well, I had always believed that I could have improved more. Yes, it was a great journey both for Barcelona and Spain. We had won two Champions League titles and with the national team, a World Cup in between two consecutive Euro titles. Naturally it was the most interesting phase of everybody associated with these wins. Football is a team game, you need to play as a team and we did play well during those 5 years.
 
 
 
 
 To be honest, we were not at the best of our abilities. Somehow it did not click and we went home from the first round itself. As the defending world champions, we should have done better, no question. We made a disastrous start against the Netherlands, losing by 1-5 and lost again to Chile 0-2. The third match versus Australia was inconsequential. A sudden dip in form that saddens us even today. But life goes on and we are again in another World Cup.
 
 
 
 
 We have played well. The new group of players had arrived while the more experienced players are still there. It is a perfect blend. Under the new coach we had qualified from a tough group, beating Italy. We did not lose a match in our group. We are more confident now and raring to go.
 
 
 
 That’s good for us since we shall have to start at the peak. Portugal is the reigning Euro champion, really a good side and an Iberian derby is always special. Morocco and Iran will be interesting opponents too.
 
 
 
 As I had said, I don’t want to be around because of who I was. This is going to be my last tournament. I had great times playing for the La Roja and we had enjoyed our success wearing the national jersey. All of us want to have a great World Cup in Russia.
 
 
 
 
 Every coach has his way of making the team play. We have to adapt to his thinking and the results reflect that we had fared well under him so far. World Cup is the biggest challenge for every player as well as the manager. We have to understand his philosophy first and execute it on the field.
 
 
 
 
 You just cannot have another Xavi! He is missed every moment since his retirement after the 2014 World Cup. We did so many things together, both for the club as well as for Spain. But that’s life. He was a bit senior to us and left after we were eliminated from the first round in Brazil. We have Thiago now and Sergio (Busquets) will be omnipresent in every part of the ground.
 
 Xavi has always been a great friend and we talk to each other whenever necessary...
 
 
 See, in football, nobody can win the trophy alone. You have to get full support from the team. Leo (Messi) needs the team to perform at their best and the vice versa. Football is not tennis. You just cannot do it alone! He is in great form as usual. However, Leo must remember that we are travelling to Russia with great ambition, too!
 
 
