HYDERABAD: Open plots put up for auction by Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) elicited an overwhelming response, with over 1,000 people registering in the first e-auction to be conducted between April 21and 23.

 “The number is likely to be higher as MSTC, which is helping HMDA in conducting the auction, is still in the process of compiling the registration data. Since it is an e-auction, people from countries such as USA, UK, Australia as well as other Indian states have registered and can participate in the auction online,” HMDA metropolitan commissioner   told TOI on Thursday evening.
 
 
 The authority expects to mop up about ?300 crore to ?400 crore through its first eauction and intends to utilise the proceeds for taking up various development works in the city.
 
 The metropolitan authority had, in the third week of March, issued a notification for auctioning off 229 plots in various layouts developed by it in the past decade as well as the land it got through gift deeds from private developers. The deadline for registering for the auction ended today.
 
 The HMDA commissioner said 18 plots were removed from the e-auction due to various reasons, including legal disputes, bringing down the number of plots up for grabs to 211.
 
 While one plot was pulled out of the auction due to variation in its location, another two were removed as locals approached the government seeking the land parcels for construction of a school and community hall. In yet another plot, GHMC had constructed a wall and wanted to retain it for development purposes.
 
 HMDA officials said they expect a good response to the latest round of auction, though some of the plots on offer are left over from previous auctions.
 
 Pointing to the primary reason for their optimism, officials said the titles of   are clear and buyers can get back their entire bid amount from the government in case any dispute arises. Buyers also do not need to pay any layout regularization fees and do not face any problems in construction of housesin termsof other clearances.
 
 Of the total 229 plots that were originally put for auction,141were in layouts developed by HMDA earlier. The remaining 88 plots were gift deed plots mortgaged with the authority by developers.
 
 The HMDA developed layouts include Tellapur, Gopanpally, Saroornagar, Vanasthalipuram, Nallagandla and  
 
 The rest are layouts developed by private developers and transferred to the authority by way of gift deed, which is 3% of the entire layout as per norms.
 
 
