Visakhapatnam: Commuters, particularly women and senior citizens, who travel by APSRTC’s city buses are facing a harrowing time while boarding the buses as most of the buses are not halting at the designated stops, forcing the passengers to run for a certain distance to catch the bus.

 This practice by the bus drivers has caused inconvenience to the passengers. In particular, this by the bus operators in the peak summer could cause heat strokes or sun strokes to the passengers.
 
 As maximum temperature levels touch more than 40 degrees Celsius during May, bus passengers are appealing to the   to look into the issue.
 
 A passenger, P Radhika said that buses are not stopping in front of the bus stops at almost all important junctions in the city. Another passenger Vijinigiri Bhanumurty from Simhachalam said “Many times I came across passengers getting injured while trying to board a city bus Maddilapalem. The buses were stopped right in the middle of the road.” 
 
 Murthy said that every bus driver is supposed to stop the bus in front of the designated stops, but they are halting them on the road itself and letting passengers board the buses in the middle of traffic. Violation of the bus stop rules are mostly being reported from Poorna Market, Jagadamba Centre, railway station, Akkayyapalem, Pedda Waltair, Visakha Eye Hospital Junction, Siripuram, and Birla Junction.
 
 When contacted, the APSRTC Visakhapatnam regional manager G Sudesh Kumar said that some buses are not stopping at the bus stop points due to certain reasons. He said city has nearly 400 sheltered bus stops and more than 100 bus stops which don’t have shelters. In certian cases, RTC drivers are forced to stop the buses on the road.
 
 Kumar said they would solve the issue by writing to the GVMC to provide bus bays in the city besides counselling their drivers to take all safety measures in executing their duties.
 
 An RTC bus driver P Vijay Kumar said that they do not have personal intention in stopping the buses on the road. They do stop the buses on the road due to occupation of the bus stops and bus bays by the private vehicles like auto-rickshaws. The APSRTC National Mazdoor Union general secretary Y Srinivasa Rao said “Both RTC and city traffic police should solve this problem of proper stoppage of buses at the bus stops by checking the unauthorised practice of private vehicles.”
 
 
