Nagpur: Pre-tournament favourites   women and hosts   men lived up to their reputation to reign supreme in the   tournament, organized by Maratha Lancers, at the Chitnis Park, Mahal, here on Monday.

 
 In the women’s summit clash, Shri Sai KM staged a brilliant comeback to edge out   28-21. In the first half, Shri Sai KM were trailing (10-13) by three points. However after the change of ends, Shri Sai KM bounced back to clinch title.
 
 Earlier in the semifinals, Shri Sai KM trounced   KM 40-25, while Sangharsh KM got the better of Amit High School, Nagpur 30-20.
 
 The men’s final was a one-sided affair with Maratha Lancers thrashing Jai Hind KM 31-16. Lancers dominated the proceedings right from the start and were leading by 28-8 at the lemon break.
 
 Earlier in the semifinals, Maratha Lancers outclassed Ramnagar Krida Mandal, Wardha 49-19 after leading comfortably at 30-11 at the half time.
 
 Shubham Palkar, Pankaj Pounikar, Suraj Raut and Akash Vibhute were the main performers for Mahal team.
 
 On the other hand, Aniket Khuje, Sourabh Khuje and Shubham Kharabe tried hard for Wardha.
 
 Jai Hind KM had to strtech to get the better of New Taj KM 39-27 in the second semis. Amol Zade, Rahul Borkar and Pravin Uike were the chief architects of Jai Hind KM victory. Although, Gajanan Thakre and Javed Akhtar fought well for New Taj, others failed to give able support.
 
 Shubham Palkar of Maratha Lancers was declared player of the series. Other individual award winners include Manish Zade of Jai Hind KM (best raider), Nilesh Waghmare of Jai Hind (best catcher), Pankaj Paunikar of Maratha Lancers (best player of the final), Roop Manchalwar of Sangharsh KM (young talented player).
 
 Leader of ruling party in NMC Sandeep Joshi, sports physiotherapist Kevin Agrawal, Arjuna awardee Nita Dadve, Maratha Lancers secretary Madan Ratan and Dilip Bhoble distributed the prizes.
 
 RESULTS
 
 Women’s semifinals: Shri Sai KM, Nagpur bt Vidarbha KM, Nagpur 40-25 (HT: 24-11); Sangharsh KM, Nagpur bt Amit High School, Nagpur 30-20 (HT: 15-11).
 
 Final: Shri Sai KM, Nagpur bt Sangharsh KM, Nagpur 28-21.
 
 Men’s semifinals: Maratha Lancers, Mahal bt Ramnagar KM, Wardha 49-19 (HT: 30-11); Jai Hind KM, Nagpur bt New Taj KM, Nagpur 39-27 (HT: 19-14).
 
 Final: Maratha Lancers, Mahal bt Jai Hind KM, Nagpur 31-16
 
 
 
 Man-of-the-final: Nikita Khodpe (Shri Sai Sporting Club, Nagpur)
 
 Best raider: Priyanka Kuhire (Sangharsh KM, Nagpur)
 
 Woman of the tournament: Priyanka Gajbhiye (Shri Sai Sporting Club, Nagpur)
 
 Most talented young player: Kshitija Sakharkar (Maratha Lancers)
 
 Best catcher of the series: Komal Shende (Sangharsh KM, Nagpur).
 
 
