JAIPUR: The   ( ) has asked the police commissioner to lodge a case against those who abandon their cattle in city limits. 

 The JMC has observed that villagers from bordering areas abandon their old cattle inside the city as they damage their crops. This has led to the increase in   cattle population in the city manifolds. The number of road accidents due to   subsequently increased, especially at nights.
 
 “It's a common practice in state to abandon cows once they stop  . Herds of cow are left on their own. These creatures in turn become highly vulnerable as they take to the city roads and highways. To discourage the practice, we have requested the police to file an FIR against villagers who are caught abandoning cattle in city areas,” said a JMC official. 
 
 The data of the last two years shows the municipal body caught about 17,000 stray animals in a year. As the penalty of Rs 5,000 is too high, the cattle owners did not turn up to claim the animals. 
 
 In the recent past, the JMC has not shown keenness to take ox and bulls to state owned shelters due to less productivity and high maintenance. 
 
 These males (ox and bulls) remain on roads after being abandoned and become cause for accidents. A source at JMC said the uneven sex ratio at the shelter has also become a major cause of worry for the operators.
 
 “The number of males (ox and bulls) abandoned by the villagers and residents has increased because of less productivity. Out of the nearly 15,000 cattle at Hingonia, there are 6,000 males and 60% of the feed is provided to them,”
 
 After witnessing continuous space crunch, 5,000 males have been shifted to nearly 4 hectare open area as it is difficult to accommodate them with other weak cattle. However, this land does not have shelter and cannot protect these from heat and extreme cold. Also, area is small for 5,000 males, this is the reason why JMC avoids to bring ox and bulls.
 
 It was further said, the situation is expected to become grim in near future and more stray cattle will be seen on roads. "There are 23 wards at gaushala. Everyday, approximatively 35 cows are brought from the city. As the death ratio has decreased the space is shrinking. On an average, 30 cows die per day. The number was 90 till last year. The state government should soon develop an alternative cow shelter,” added a source.
 
 
