CHENNAI: A central government scheme for the benefit of local communities affected by mining projects has been ignored by the   government. 

 Data tabled in the   shows that a fund of 202 crore - which is supposed to ensure drinking water, environment preservation, health care and physical infrastructure in such areas - is lying unused in the state's coffers. 
 
 The scheme, known as   (PMKKKY), was launched in September 2015 by the Union mines ministry. It was dubbed 'a revolutionary and unprecedented scheme of its kind, which will transform the lives of people living in areas affected directly or indirectly by mining'.
 
 The fund is collected from holders of mining leases by a   (DMF) at the rate of 10% of royalty granted on or after May 12, 2015 and 30% of the royalty for leases given before that date.
 
 The Union ministry of mines data shows that TN is one of only two states where not even a single project or scheme has been sanctioned under PMKKKY. In neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, of the 397 crore collected, 3,700 projects have been initiated and 51 crore spent. In Telangana, 10 crore has been spent and 219 projects have been sanctioned. Chhattisgarh has spent 1,383 crore and sanctioned 25,905 projects. 
 
 Additional chief secretary to the   K Gnanadesikan, who is heading the industries department from January 10 this year, told TOI that the DMF was notified very late in the state. "It was notified in July last year," he said.
 
 The issue has come up during the recent collectors' conference where they were instructed to get proposals from local authorities, Gnanadesikan said. "We have instructed that the schemes should be complimentary to existing works," he said. Proposals have been received, he said.
 
 Another reason for the delay in starting projects under PMKKKY was that the date from which the funds were to be collected had been challenged in the Supreme Court, Gnanadesikan said. "The order has come just now. The state is also fighting other mining cases in the Madras high court," he said.
 
 
