TIRUVANNAMALAI: With an objective to improve the quality of education in the government schools in  , one of most backward districts, the government employees have come forward to contribute under the newly launched ‘My Child- My Care’. 

 The district administration and education department in Tiruvannamalai have launched the programme on Tuesday. By end of the day, the government employees have pooled in Rs 9lakh. Several employees and officials expressed willingness to contribute a day’s salary every month to the programme. 
 
 A committee, with the collector as the chairperson, has been constituted to use the fund judicially. There are a total of 2.75 lakh students in 2177 government schools in the district. 
 
 The programme has become an instant hit among the government employees, who contributed from Rs 500 to Rs 25,000. “We have received the contribution from over 150 employees from various departments. Staff and officials from Agriculture department alone contributed Rs 1 lakh,” said collector  , who donated Rs 10,000.
 
 Similarly, senior officials from DRDA, revenue, health, education department and several other departments have also contributed to programme. “We want to appoint teachers in vacant posts for a monthly salary of Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000, improve the libraries and take up activities that improve the quality of the education in government schools by using the fund,” said the collector.
 
 Calling a government school teacher in   was spark and inspiration to come up with the programme, the collector said, “I received a call from CEO ( ). He told me that a teacher (S Kalpana) wanted to contribute Rs 10,000 for the 1.75 lakh government school students’ attempt to read Tamil mazagine simultaneously to create a world record. The CEO asked for my permission to receive the money.” The collector named a 7 day-old abandoned girl child after the teacher,  , to honour her.
 
  He said he wanted to explore the idea and rope in such like-minded and willing government employees instead of looking for sponsorship. “The response was overwhelming. Even several employees expressed willingness to contribute a day salary from every month towards the programme,” he added.
 
 
