Long after we listen to an AR   composition, the tune rings in our ears, as if we’ve heard it a thousand times already. In the last many years, the maestro has given us several such songs that linger on our minds. Songs that we would never get bored of listening to in a loop. Now, as he celebrates 25 years in the industry and has brought to Chennai, his   concert (next weekend, at the   grounds), he goes on a rewind mode, sharing with us memories of his days before he became such a hot-shot composer, what Chennai fans can expect from this concert, his ‘nightmare’ while performing live, and more...

 
 It’s very nice to come back here and perform because this is where everything started. You know, I was following bands before. I used to be a roadie, taking equipment to   and other college cultural fests (laughs). So, there’s a kind of nostalgia attached to it. It’s wonderful.
 
 
 Almost 99 per cent of the songs will be in Tamil. Of course, some people complain. But a lot of Hindi audience love Tamil and vice versa. For example, Dil Se, I would like to perform in Hindi. Those can be exceptions. There are some of my songs which I myself listen to and wonder ‘Did I really do it?’. Those are the kind of songs I choose for my concerts and of course, the hit songs as well. 
 
 
 It happens everywhere. If you have 15,000 people, definitely at least 100 people will not like something. It could be the place where they’re sitting or the lighting, etc. But now, every such incident is amplified through social media. As long as people come to my concerts, I am fine with it (chuckles).
 
 
 That’s our biggest concern, always. The instinctiveness of the engineer has to be amazing. He’s the hero of the show. All of us perform our best, trusting that this guy is doing an amazing job. Now, we’ve a team of people. Because my songs are complicated, the genres of each of them constantly change. It’s not just rock, or folk or classical. It keeps changing. To understand that, even the engineer has to be switched. It’s a nightmare. But we’ve cracked it over the years. Even in the US, some of the best engineers have struggled with it.
 
 
 When an artiste sings, you do get to know if he is really singing or not. Sometimes, when you’ve a big production, it’s impossible for a person to jump around on stage, dance and then sing in tune. So, they use the technique where you have some pre-recorded vocals coming in.
 
 
 There’s IPRS (The Indian Performing Right Society Limited) which has come back again. It’s in good hands now. Things will be sorted soon.
 
 
 It’s a good statement. For me, doing work in Chennai is very important. I could shift to Los Angeles or London or anywhere. But this city has given me so much. So, the onus is on me to give back to the city and that’s how this ensemble has also been formed. It pushes me while working with them. Because I’ve to keep working, so that I inspire them. I get a competitive spirit when I work with younger people. I learn from them and vice versa.
 
 
