BHOPAL:  ,   to hailstorm-hit areas of Kolaras, ran into a   on Wednesday, who shouted: “Seema par mar raha Jawan, kheton main mar raha kisan (soldiers are dying on the border and farmers are dying in the fields).”

 Kolaras has bypolls on February 24. Farmers in Kesopur village threatened to boycott the election, indicating that the big sops recently announced by the government may not placate all sections of farmers. “Vote nahin denge. Ek bhi vote nahi milega,” the farmers shouted as Arya tried in vain to calm tempers.
 
 Arya, who handles general administration department, had gone to the village assess crop damage. He was taken by surprise when farmers gheraoed him, demanding immediate compensation. A video clip of the demonstration catches them saying that they “want no more assurances but immediate action”. The farmers also complained that they have neither received drought relief nor benefit of Bhawantar Bhugtan scheme since November-December.
 
 The minister tried to pacify the farmers and asked local BJP leaders to convince them for a discussion. He explained that due to the model code of conduct, the government will request the Election Commission to allow distribution of relief to farmers, considering it an emergency. Amid sloganeering and protests, all Arya could say was that he can’t make any announcement due to the poll code and that state government “stands with farmers in this hour of need”.
 
 Later, he told reporters: “The code of conduct is in effect in the constituency but the government will urge EC to compensate farmers of Ashoknagar devastated in the calamity.” 
 
 Asked what the EC rules say in such cases, state Chief Election Officer Salina Singh said that normally the government asks for permission to announce or grant relief during calamities. The request is forwarded to Election Commission of India. “In this case, since the bypoll is restricted to only two constituencies, the state government can write for permission to grant relief to the calamity-affected areas. It takes time to disburse relief to bank accounts of beneficiaries. This is not an immediate crisis and the government can work on it,” said Singh.
 
 
