MOTIHARI: Prime minister   on Tuesday blamed opposition parties for recent communal clashes in   and praised CM   Kumar for effectively handling the situation.

 Speaking at a function organised under the ‘Chalo Champaran’ campaign, part of the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM), at  , the PM said opposition parties were out to create lawlessness, mislead gullible masses and derive political mileage. “I laud Nitish-ji for the patience with which his government is battling corruption, social evils and communal disturbances,” the PM said and added the Centre would extend all possible support to Bihar in maintaining good governance.
 
 While the Centre is at work to unite people, Modi regretted, opposition parties are at work to break the society. “Wiping out communalism will be our best tribute to outfreedom fighters,” he said.
 
 Nitish in his speech also appealed to people to respect each other and stop violence in the name of caste and religion.
 
 Union minister for food protection and consumer affairs Ram Vilas Paswan used the event, organised by the state government, to take on the opposition on the issue of reservation and welfare of dalits. “PM Modi has already announced that the reservation for SCs and STs will never be abolished, but the opposition parties are spreading rumours to mislead innocent people,” he said.
 
 The PM also accused the RJD of delaying the electric locomotive factory project at Madhepura. “The project was approved as early as 2007, but the files gathered dust for eight years. The NDA government took up the project three years ago and the first phase has now been completed," Modi said.
 
 On the occasion, the PM flagged off the first 12,000-horsepower freight electric locomotive assembled at the Madhepura factory. He also laid the foundation of the track-doubling work on the Muzzafarpur-Sagauli (100.6 km) and Sagauli-Valmikinagar (109.7 km) sections. He also flagged off bi-weekly Hamsafar Express from   to Delhi using remote control. 
 
 Bseides, the PM laid the stone of a 376.12-km sewer network in Saidpur and Pahari sewerage zones in Patna under the Centre’s Namami Gange project. The PM also laid the stones of a petroleum oil lube and LPG terminal at Motihari, a new LPG bottling plant at Harsiddhi, a six-lane NH-2 from Aurangabad in Bihar to Jharkhand, and a water supply project at Bettiah.
 
 The highlight of the event, however, was the launch of ‘Satyagrah se Swachhagrah’ movement. The PM addressed 20,000 ‘Swachhagrahis’, or cleanliness ambassadors, who have been working in Bihar for the past few weeks to spread awareness about sanitation.
 
 “I salute the spirit of Mahatma Gandhi present inside every individual today. Those who say history does not repeat itself, can see this picture of mass movement at Motihari. We are taking forward Mahatma Gandhi's ideals through the Swachhagraha movement,” Modi said.
 
 The PM lavished praise on Nitish for working to turn Bihar into a open defacation-free state by constructing a large number of toilets in a short time. “Bihar has built about eight lakh toilets in a year and will soon catch up with the national average,” Modi said. 
 
 Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and Union ministers Radha Mohan Singh, Ravi Shankar Prasad, S S Ahluwalia, Giriraj Singh, Ashwini Chaubey and Ramkripal Yadav were also on the dais.
 
 On January 9, 1915, Mahatma Gandhi returned to India from South Africa, landed at the Apollo Port in Mumbai and eventually led his first Satyagraha movement (non-violent freedom struggle) from Champaran in 1917. In commemoration of the hundredth year of the Champaran movement, the Nitish government organised a number of events over the last one year and concluding functions are being held at Motihari from April 10 to 16.
 
 
