GURUGRAM: The government   in Sushant Lok (C-2), which has 130 students, has grown over 2,500   or soil-less plants on its premises. The initiative was conceived earlier this year by teachers to encourage students to be senitive to the environment. 

 The school has started an eco-club and roped in students as members. Manoj Kumar, head teacher, said, “I joined the school nine months ago. At that time, there was not a single plant in the school. So, we asked students to go to neighbouring areas and collect old plants.” 
 
 Students managed to collect at least 170 plants in a week after which the school got in touch with ‘Give me trees’, a Delhi-based NGO which focuses on community-based voluntary tree planting and conservation. “The trust asked us if hydroponic plantation could be introduced in the school and we agreed to do the same,” said Kumar.
 
 ‘Give me trees’ roped in Honda, which donated Rs 3.5 lakh from its CSR funds for the project. Vaneet Bhalla, a volunteer with ‘Give me trees’, said, “The concept of hydroponics is new in the country but it gives big results. It involves growing healthy plants without the use of a traditional soil medium, using a nutrient and mineral-rich water solution. Hydroponic plantation requires less water in comparison to the traditional way. A hydroponic plant needs some nutrients, water, and sunlight and all this is available in the school.”
 
 The school chose its rooftop to set up the garden. “The plants are put on pipes. This requires less space as the plants grow vertically,” said Bhalla. 
 
 Students look after the plants. Vegetables such as cabbage, capsicum, green chilli, lady’s finger and tomato are grown. “When the vegetables are fully grown, we will distribute them among students,” said Kumar.
 
 The system requires the school to ensure water circulation through hydroponic pipes. The school makes two teachers stay in the school overnight to switch on the motor when water supply is there. “The school has eight teachers. We don’t have helpers such as gardeners or guards. So, we decided to take care of this ourselves. We stay in the school to switch on the motor in the evening and early morning. We also sprinkle organic pesticides on the plants,” said  , a teacher. 
 
 The school plans to increase the number of hydroponic plants to 3,500 in the next couple of days. Sub-divisional magistrate Sanjeev Singhla said, “I really appreciate the work students have done to grow soil-less plants. Other schools should also encourage this initiative.”
 
 
 
