His music keeps him busy, but whenever   is not at Chandrabindoo’s live shows or rehearsal pad, he is with  . For the feisty little girl and her pup, Cookie — both Upal’s cartoon creations — have gained immense popularity on social media. Now, the city’s police force wants to use the cartoon figures to create traffic awareness among people.
“Debasisda (Debasis Dutta, OC,   Police Station) asked me if I could draw a few of the Puchki cartoons for his station. He wanted to create traffic and social awareness through these pictures,” says Upal, adding, “Of course, I said yes. What can be a bigger success for my creation than inspiring common people?”
 In fact, two of his previous pictures had drawn the attention of Debasis. “In one picture Puchki is seen collecting garbage from a park and her pet is helping her. That was outstanding, I thought,” says Debasis. “There is another one in which the little girl and the dog hug trees. It was a tribute to the Chipko Movement. What else can convey the message better than the innocence of this duo,” he says.
 But what is the inspiration behind Puchki? “I think it is my childhood,” says the singer. “We all miss our childhood and I think I portray my childhood through these quirky activities of Puchki,”   adds. Perhaps that’s why the initial sketches of Puchki to create awareness weren’t easy to do. “The characters are carefree and never preachy. So it involved a good amount of brainstorming before I could finalise on the plots. There is something else as well. One of the basic features of the series is that it has always been just the two of them — Puchki and Cookie. Now, to show that Puchki wears helmet, I could not let the character ride a two-wheeler as she is underage. Neither did I want to introduce another character. So finally, we planned something interesting. I drew Puchki — wearing a helmet — helping Cookie to don a helmet too, but there is a third helmet sitting on the bike so that it appears that there will be a senior person who will ride,” he explains.
 While the walls of Kasba Police Station are now beaming with different activities of Puchki, the other thanas under South Suburban Division will also get similar paintings. “Bansdroni, Patuli, Netaji Nagar police stations will have a similar makeover. In another 35 days, all the stations will have this new look,” Santosh Nimbalkar, DC, South Suburban Division, told us. “So many people visit our police station. These paintings will be able to influence people to abide by the law,” he adds.
 While Upal has done the primary drawing on paper, those paintings are being repainted on the wall by a group of young artists — Nairik Dutta, Sourav Bhattacharya, Chandan Chakraborty and Moynak Mondal from an art group, Bornik.
 No wonder Upal is on cloud nine. “When I first drew these two characters, I had no idea that they would reach out to so many people. I am extremely delighted with Puchki and Cookie’s popularity. But I will be happier if these paintings can really make a difference in society. Puchki will become a hero then,” says Upal with a smile.
 
 
