MADURAI: A serious flaw in security measures has resulted in four deaths of spectators during jallikattu events in Madurai,   and  . While the   (AWBI) has laid down clear guidelines on the conduct of such events pertaining to crowd management and safety within the arena, there have been poor management of crowds that spill over at the ‘collection points’ where bull owners grab their animals after the game.

 In the last two days, four spectators were killed when the bulls gored them at the collection points when owners tried to rein them in. 
 
 While security arrangements were in place in the arena at Siravayal in Sivaganga district, where two spectators, who came to see the famous ‘Manjuvirattu’, were killed, activists say that taming the bulls in the area beyond the arena is difficult. With the arena unable to accommodate the huge crowds, they spill out into the collection area.
 
 V  , part of the 10-member AWBI team for jallikattu inspection, admitted that security at collection points needed to be strengthened. “Even owners do not dare to catch the animals that are in a frenzied state when they run out of the arena. Trained bull catchers should be ensured at the collection points,” he said.
 
 AWBI guidelines state that the arena through which the bulls pass through should be double barricaded to prevent injuries to the spectators. But, in all the events, hundreds of spectators stood outside the barricades to watch the event. The gallery can accommodate about 30,000 spectators. But, many more stand outside the arena to watch the bull sport.
 
 On Tuesday, R  , 21, was killed in the jallikattu event in   in Trichy when he was one-and-a-half kilometer from the main venue. In all the incidents, the bulls ran into the spectators. The AWBI guidelines say that the bull tamers should collect their animals at collection points. Owners wait with a rope in hand. But, some of the bulls slip through and ram the crowds.
 
 AWBI’s animal caretaker  , a member of the jallikattu monitoring team in Sivaganga, said all security measures were in place. “Both men were killed in Siravayal about half a kilometer from the arena,” he said.
 
 Spectators roam around with no crowd management beyond the jallikattu arena:
 
 Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (SPCA) executive secretary in Sivaganga K R Nagarajan said it was the tendency of animals to run into anyone coming across its path. “It is the area within the arena which can be monitored as per the guidelines,” he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, sources said that hundreds of bulls were unleashed in villages around Siravayal by villagers who could not register their bulls for jallikattu. Police said there were less than 100 men and 100 bulls in the arena where the game was monitored.
 
 
