CHANDIGARH: Two years back Rohit Kumar, a resident of a slum in Sector 1, Panchkula was not even aware that the institutes like IITs existed. There are many other students like Rohit belonging to economically weaker section and interiors of Punjab for whom graduation was a big deal despite scoring above 80% marks in Class X boards.

 However, two years on, 23 such students from meritorious school in Mohali have successfully cracked the JEE Main entrance exam. The exam is a qualifying test for JEE (advance) that allows entry to the IITs. Last year, 14 students from the school had cleared this prestigious exam.
 
 Rohit’s father is a labourer and his mother is a housewife. “I had appeared for   in Class X and since I scored good marks, I got entry into the meritorious school. I was not aware about IITs and such institutes until then. The credit for my success goes to my teachers, especially my mentor Kunal, who supported and guided me. He even purchased books for me as I could not afford them,” said Rohit.
 
 He said he was inspired by his seniors who cracked the exam last year. He is now preparing for JEE (advance). He is also confident of clearing the   entrance exam.
 
 After qualifying this exam, these children are sure to get admission into engineering colleges but lack of financial support may put breaks on their dreams. Shivani, who scored 79 marks and qualified in the general category said, “I want to pursue engineering, but I highly doubt that I will be able to because of financial issues.”
 
 “We can’t afford to educate her in the field of engineering but we want her to go for higher studies. So, she has applied for BSc Mathematics in Panjab University,” said her mother, a housewife. Her father is a compounder.
 
 Another student, Balwinder Kaur, who qualified in the Scheduled Caste category with 70 marks said, “You should do everything that you can for your parents. You should always listen to them and have a blind faith in them.” She wishes to pursue engineering from   in order to save money.
 
 Other students too were happy about their achievement and because they made their parents proud. 
 
 Arshpreet Singh, who scored 148 marks in the general category and qualified for the exam said, “I am glad that I could make my parents feel proud.” He wishes to work abroad, to do well financially and to explore other opportunities.
 
 Vikas, who scored 91 marks, and qualified in the Scheduled Caste category said, “I would like to acknowledge efforts of my mentors, Kunal and Vikas. I have always liked mathematics and have given it more time and preference.”
 
 Mohit, who got 76 marks and passed the exam in the   category, says, “Moving to a big city gave me a lot of exposure and I realized what it is like to live away from your home and family.”
 
 
