Hyderabad: Auto maker   Auto Industries, which makes electric and gasoline powered vehicles, is eyeing Telangana and Andhra Pradesh for its second manufacturing facility.

 “We are looking at investing Rs 100 crore in a facility in the south, preferably Telangana or AP, with a capacity to make about 1 lakh units per annum to begin with and then can go upto 2.5-3 lakh per annum at a total investment of Rs 250-300 crore,” Lohia Auto Industries CEO Ayush Lohia told TOI here on Sunday.
 
 Lohia, who is in town for parleys with officials of the Telangana and AP governments for acquiring 50-100 acres of land for the facility, said they are targetting having the South plant up and running by 2019-20. “Telangana is expected to announce its EV policy next week. If that happens there will be more clarity and we can finalise things soon. If we start in the next three to six months will we be able to complete the plant by 2019-20,” he explained.
 
 Lohia Auto manufactures electric two-wheelers, e-rickshaws and solar powered e-richshaws as well as diesel powered three wheelers. It also has a 50:50 JV with US-based UM Motorcycle -- UM Lohia Two Wheelers Pvt Ltd for manufacturing high-end cruiser bikes in India. Here he pointed out that though currently the company utilizes only about 25-30% of its current installed capacity of 1 lakh units per annum (production of 25,000-30,000 vehicles pa), it hopes to reach 80-90% capacity utilization over the next two years, which is why it is planning for the second capacity now.
 
 While AP has offered land in Anantapur and near Sri City, the Telangana government has shown it a couple of parcels of land on Hyderabad's outskirts. It has also seen one location in Maharashtra but is more keen on Telangana or AP, which put together are the largest markets for diesel three-wheelers in India, he explained. Lohia Auto, which already has one plant at Kashipur in Uttarakhand, is looking at the twin Telugu states for its second facility as it will be better poised to cater not only to the South markets but also West, East and Central India markets and can also be the base for its foray into four-wheelers (e-cars and commercial vehicles) as well, he said, adding it is open to having separate facilities for EVs and gasoline powered vehicles within the South facility, if need be. 
 
 The company, for which EVs account for 40% of all sales and the rest are contributed by traditional fuel powered vehicles, has a turnover of Rs 100 crore and is looking at crossing the Rs 500 crore mark by 2020. While Lohia Auto manufactures petrol powered cruiser bikes (280 cc bikes) under the Renegade brand (four variants currently) in JV with UM Motorcycle, it makes e-scooters under the OmaStar brand (with lead acid and LI batteries), e-rickshaws under Narain and Humrahi brands and diesel three-wheelers under Humsafar brand., which is part of the Rs 700 crore Lohia Global that has interests in manufacturing, exports, retail, realty, energy and automobiles. 
 
 
