LUDHIANA: An advocate of Punjab and Haryana high court from Chandigarh and his two family members were killed whereas his maid suffered serious injuries after his vehicle collided with a truck near Jagraon on Thursday morning. Miraculously, the lawyer’s four-month-old daughter escaped unhurt in the  .

 The deceased were identified as 32-year-old advocate Sudershan Kumar, his wife Seema, 28, and son  , 3. The injured was identified as 26-year-old Kajal.
 
 Police officials said Sudershan along with his family members had left for Faridkot in his   i20 car at 6.15am from him home in Sector 21 in Chandigarh on Thursday to attend the bhog ceremony of Seema’s uncle. They said Sudershan was driving the vehicle and his wife Seema was holding her son on the seat next to him. His daughter Dhwani was in Kajal’s lap on the rear seat.
 
 Cops said they crossed Ludhiana at 7.35am. At 8.45am, when they were 6 km ahead of Jagraon city on Jagraon-Moga road, Sudershan lost control over the wheels possibly due to tyre burst. The car then crossed over to other side of the road while jumping the divider and collided with the truck (PB08M-9779) of a cold drink distributor from Phillaur.
 
 Police officials said Sudershan, his wife and son died on the spot. Kajal was first shifted to Jagraon civil hospital and then to a hospital in Ludhiana. They added that after the incident, police reached the spot and started a probe into the accident.
 
 Police also got the bodies shifted to the Jagraon civil hospital for autopsy.
 
 Inspector  , station house officer, Jagraon city police station, said that initial investigation suggested that front tyre of the car might have been punctured which led to the accident. He said the car might be travelling at more than 100 km per hour at the time of the accident.
 
 The SHO said they have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of CrPC into the matter. He added that the truck driver was going on his side and he is not at fault.
 
 Cops said truck driver Balwinder Singh, who was returning to Phillaur after dropping a consignment of cold drinks at Moga, ran away from the spot after leaving his vehicle behind possibly out of fear for causing the accident.
 
 Seema’s father Ajeetpal Arora of Zira reached Jagraon after hearing the news about the deaths.
 
 
