LUDHIANA: To bring down air pollution due to  , Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University ( ) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with a Khanna and a Chennai company (a subsidiary of Doha-based firm Messrs Neway Renewable Energy Private Limited) to convert paddy straw into enriched fodder pellets for cattle. 

 Approximately 20 million tonnes of paddy straw is generated in Punjab every year of which only two million tonnes is used as fodder for cattle, fuel and for making cardboard. Most of the remaining quantity is burnt, leading to air, soil and water pollution, apart from badly damaging natural bio-diversity. This causes a loss of Rs 400 crore. 
 
 Neway Renewable Energy Private Limited (NREPL) plans to process 10 million tonnes of paddy straw into fodder pellets using innovative technology under the guidance of Gadvasu. The university experts will analyse the fodder pellets for certain quality control parameters, like digestibility, nutritional value and shelf life, said vice-chancellor AS  . “Through a study, we will ascertain whether the pellets have side-effects on humans and fertility of animals. NREPL has donated Rs 5 lakh to Gadvasu to support the project and the amount will be increased according to the need,” he said.
 
 The vice-chancellor said the NREPL has already acquired 20 acres at Bathinda and the firm may be able to make the required infrastructural arrangements by July-end. Gadvasu would provide them research and development data by September. 
 
 “By December-end, NREPL will start making the product and use the paddy stubble from areas around Bathinda. Within one year they will set up 30 such units in the state. They are already in talks with the Punjab government for land. About 5,000 workers will get jobs in the project of around Rs 1,500 crore,” he said
 
 “The farmers will give them the stubble, which they will store in 30 units and convert it to pellets. Dairy business is progressing in the  , but there is a severe shortage of facilities for feed and fodder production. So there is a tremendous scope of export of enriched fodder pellets to Qatar and the Middle-East. The Qatar company will market the products internationally using their 30-year experience in the global market,” said the vice-chancellor.
 
 The Gadvasu authorities said NREPL has also signed an MoU with the Punjab government for processing of paddy straw into carbon-enriched fuel and was in the process of setting up the required infrastructure. The university has involved a Khanna company which will provide machinery to the Qatar firm. 
 
 Manju Wadhwa, head of the animal and nutrition department and principal investigator of the project, said they will carry out research studies to develop, standardise, evaluate and monitor the quality of fodder pellets. “After research, fodder pellet samples will be provided to the company so that it can start their production,”   added. 
 
 The MoU was signed with Messrs Neway Renewable Energy Private Limited, a sub-group of Alkindi Group Company, Doha, Qatar, by JPS Gill, director, research, Gadvasu, and Abdul Samad Melath, NREPL, chairman. 
 
 
