NEW DELHI: Pressure is mounting on the judiciary for live telecast of its proceedings on the lines of that done by Parliament and state assemblies. A PIL was dismissed three years ago but two writ petitions were filed by advocates seeking live telecast of court proceedings, at least in cases of national importance like 
  and right to sexual orientation by the LGBTQ community. 

  Following the footsteps of advocate  , who has been repeatedly and unsuccessfully mentioning his petition filed last year for early listing so that a judicial debate on the necessity of live telecast of court proceedings could be held, senior advocate   on Thursday mentioned a petition on the same issue before a bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra seeking early hearing. 
 
  Though Nedumpara and Jaising come from diverse backgrounds, they supplemented each other in saying live telecast of court proceedings was the need of the hour because judiciary functioned under the fundamental principle that all judicial proceedings be conducted in open court and any member of the public who wishes to be present in court shall have the right to do so. 
 
  In her petition, Jaising gave a long list of her personal achievements and mentioned that she was the 'editor-in-chief' of a digital magazine focussing on legal matters and issues. She said as SC judgments impacted every single citizen of India, it was necessary that those getting impacted by the apex court's decisions be aware of the manner in which such decisions were taken. 
 
  Mentioning a few 
  - challenge to the validity of Aadhaar, the petition seeking right to sexual orientation of LGBTQ community, entry of women of all ages into Sabarimala temple in Kerala and the petition seeking to make women equal partners in the offence of adultery, Jaising said live telecast of court proceedings in cases of national importance would "improve public understanding of law, adherence to law and have an educative value furthering the principle of 'open justice'". 
 
  The SC and high courts have repeatedly rejected pleas for live telecast or audio/video recording of court proceedings. In 2015, an SC bench headed by then CJI H L Dattu had dismissed a PIL and said, "You want to put CCTV in the court? Right now, whatever we discuss in the innermost chamber is out there in the public. What we discuss among judges in the collegium meetings are also out in the public. There is no need for CCTV." 
 
 
