Their   is not unfamiliar for the ears of Chennaiites. Orlando & the Medium Rare Band has gone through various phases and seen trends in the music scene ever since their existence in 1998. From competing in college cultural to performing for commercial bands in the city, the band has come a long way. “We all were from different college who used to compete in various cultural competitions and that’s how we got along. In 1998, I started singing for various bands in the city, and later, when I started playing for various star hotels in 2005, I got to meet different artistes. That’s how we decided to form a band,” recalls Orlando Ambrose, who is the lead vocalist. The members include Orlando, Shaun Roberts (lead guitar), Anthony Karuna (keyboards), Eugene Guest (drummer) and Neil Roberts (bass).

 And they have an interesting story on how they got the band’s name. It was a barbecue night and they were playing a classical retro that day when the team came up with the band’s name. “Since it was a barbecue night and I do like my steak medium rare (half cooked so that the outer portion looks brown but the inside remains partially red), we decided to lock the name,” chuckles Orlando.
 
 Though the band specialises in  , they play almost every genre from 50s to current music. They also compose their own music and have performed in MTV Indies. The songs that brought applause and merit to the band was in 2012, when they released a rock ballet   followed by a hard rock song in 2016,  . Last year, they got the audience grooving in the surfing festival. 
 
 Sharing their views on how music has evolved today, Orlando says, “Back in late 90s, there were only western bands playing trending charts in hotels. There was no room to play originals because the attitude of people in Chennai was that they listen to songs only if they know the lyrics or familiar with the musician. And that’s where we also came from. Today, the acceptance for Indie music has is much better. People are open to listening to new music, new genres, which is a tremendous evolution in music.”
 
 The band is currently working on their originals. “There are around six songs. These are from different genres — we have classic rock,  ,  . I am also writing a   as well,” he signs off.
 
 — Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
 
 
