LUDHIANA: Less than a fortnight after a station house officer (SHO) of Sadar Raikot police station was booked for extortion, the deputy inspector general (Ludhiana range) has constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case.

 Inspector  , SHO, Sadar Raikot police station, has been absconding since he was booked on February 4.
 
 Kuldeep in connivance with  , a nurse belonging to Ludhiana and working in Bathinda, allegedly extort Rs 28 lakh from Balkar Singh of Bagha Khurd in   by threatening to implicate him and his family members in a false case.
 
 The accused persons were later booked by the City Raikot Police station under sections 384 (Punishment for extortion), 420 (Fraud), 120 B (Criminal conspiracy) of IPC and Prevention of corruption Act.
 
 Deputy inspector general (Ludhiana range) Gursharan Singh Sandhu said the SIT is being headed by an IPS officer. He added that the team will probe the matter and will submit the report as soon as possible.
 
 The SIT comprises SP (headquarters Khanna) Balwinder Singh Bhiki, SP (headquarters Nawanshahr), assistant superintendent of police (Raikot), DSP (special branch) and SHO Raikot. Bhiki said though the probe is not time bound, they will complete the investigation and submit the report as early as possible.
 
 Even as sources said police might try to facilitate compromise between the complainant and the accused who might return the money, the SP said it is not the job of police to help parties reach compromise in such cases. He said they are trying to arrest the SHO, who is absconding.
 
 Police officials said besides the SHO, the police are hunting for three to four persons involved in the case.
 
 Police sources said the accused might have hired the services of a Raikot-based photographer who had allegedly brought the accused Inderjeet Kaur, nurse of Ludhiana who was working in Bhatinda before being arrested, in a Scorpio. They added that there are chances that the accused counted the currency notes sitting in the chamber on the rear side of the SHO’s office.
 
 Police sources had said the case was registered into the matter after a senior youth leader of   and MLA had raised the matter with the Chief Minister’s Office. They added that the CM’s office had later asked the DIG to get the case registered into the matter.
 
 
 
 
 In his police complaint, advocate Sukhdev Singh Mann had said in the first week of January, his brother-in-law Balkar Singh had got a call from SHO Kuldeep Singh who told him that he, his sister and niece (who lives in  ), play fraud with girls by promising to send them abroad and a Ludhiana woman has lodged a complaint against them for taking Rs 28 lakh from her to send her abroad. Later, the officer asked them to come to Sadar Raikot police station after which he, his brother-in-law and Paramjit Singh of Bagha Khurd went there where the police officer showed them some recording. In response to the video, he made it clear to the SHO that his brother-in-law doesn’t have knowledge about how to send people abroad. He added his brother-in-law and Inderjeet Kaur, who is a divorcee and has one child, had physical relation and he would even help her.
 
 The complainant said that impressed by the lifestyle of his brother-in-law, Inderjeet Kaur had planned to play the fraud with him and later lodged a complaint with police.
 
 The complainant said later he got call from his sister who told him that the SHO along with other accused got Rs 28 lakh from his brother-in-law in the name of compromise.
 
 
