CHANDIGARH: The CBI has found that a company owned by Sukhvinder Hooda, nephew of former chief minister  , was one of the beneficiaries of the   land acquisition scam. According to the chargesheet submitted by the agency before the special   revealed that the company, in which   was a director, got the change of land use (CLU) permission on August 24, 2007.

 The same day, land acquisition proceedings, initiated by Gurugram district revenue officer, had lapsed for the want of release of funds for compensation to the landowners.
 
 According to the CBI chargesheet, initially two infrastructure companies represented by Gaurav Chaudhary and Arvind Walia had acquired 52 acres. Later, one of the companies joined hands with the company owned by Sukhwinder.
 
 Soon after the release of land initially owned by another firm, the company, in which Sukhwinder was a director, had paid over Rs 57 lakh as the CLU permission charges for setting up a school. “Thus it revealed that the family members of Bhupinder Singh Hooda had the business interest in this CLU,” the CBI chargesheet reads.
 
 It is alleged that ex-CM Hooda had cleared the file related to the land on his own as it did not contain any recommendation from the state industries department or the town and country planning (TCP) department.
 
 The chargesheet also added that at the same time two persons, Naveen Raon and one more, had applied for the release of land, the TCP department did not gave them any clearance.
 
 While the move to seek CLU permissions was at its peak, the industries department had been making moves to complete the land acquisition proceedings to ensure that the Haryana State Industries and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) could continue with the project.
 
 According to information, deputy director of the industries department K S Joshan had even sought the probe into the delay in releasing the compensation. In August 2004, the Gurugram DRO had initiated the proceeding the acquisition of 912 acres for setting up the Industrial Model Township in Manesar.
 
 In August 2006, the government had finalized the land after disposing of the objection, and finally in August 2007 entire proceedings had ended as the government could not announce the award of the acquired land.
 
 
