AJMER/JAIPUR: Involved in paper leak controversy, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Sunday remained alert and vigilant during the offline examination of JEE main. Special teams were constituted by   region of the board that specially monitored the question papers distribution.

 According to sources, even mobile phones of invigilators and officials involved in examinations were banned in every examination centres. Papers were kept in the lockers of nearby banks of the centre and official nominated by the CBSE were held responsible for the distribution of question papers. Special flying squad was also constituted to check examination centres.
 
 Control room was made at regional office of CBSE, Ajmer which was getting regular updates on the progress of the examinations in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Union territories of   and  . “We got the examination conducted peacefully in the region,” said an official source.
 
 The official said that almost at every centre there was videography of question paper opening as well as distribution. Internet services were closed at many places. Online exam of   will be on April 15-16. “Students who pass in this examination will appear in JEE (advanced) examination and the board is serious about the process of the exam,” added the official.
 
 The question paper was based on NCERT and divided equally into easy, moderate and difficult questions. The shocking thing is that questions were not asked from   in chemistry and   in physics.
 
 The paper comprised of 30 questions from chemistry, which carried a total of 120 marks. Experts said that it had 5 difficult questions of 20 marks. Two questions from maths were difficult which carried 8 marks. The difficulty level of 11 questions was moderate, that carried 44 marks. While 17 questions were of easy level comprising of 68 marks. In physics only 1 question of 4 marks was difficult. Nineteen questions comprising of 76 marks had a moderate difficulty level. Whereas 10 questions carrying 40 marks were easy. The exam was conducted in Jaipur, Udapiur, Jodhour Bikaner, Kota and Ajmer.
 
 The examination is conducted by CBSE for admission in IITs and other premium engineering institutes. The paper started at 9.30 am but candidates were directed to reach the centre at 7 am, even teachers and school officials were called as early as 6 am. More than 12 lakh candidates had applied for this examination. The second paper in afternoon was for admission in bachelors in architecture.
 
 
