LUDHIANA: Vehicular traffic came to a halt for half an hour near Bharat Nagar Chowk when kin of the youth -- who was beaten to death by a group of miscreants, including son of an ASI -- staged a protest, demanding arrest of all the accused.

 In the early hours of Monday, 25-year-old   Kumar of   was thrashed to death outside a dhaba near bus stand following a verbal spat. He was attacked with baseball bats and sharp-edged weapons. He was rushed to a private hospital in Civil Lines, from where the doctors referred him to PGI, Chandigarh. On way to Chandigarh, the youth succumbed to his injuries. In the fight, his friend Deepak Kumar of the same locality had also sustained injuries.
 
 Division 5 police registered a case against six accused --   of Police Colony, his friends Shubham, Aman, Sajan, Sachin Pabbi, all residents of Sham Nagar, and their accomplice, who is yet to be identified. The main accused, Mandeep, who is the son of an ASI posted at division 5 police station, was arrested on Monday.
 
 Accusing police of inaction, Varinder’s kin along with about 40 supporters walked from Jawahar Nagar to Bharat Nagar Chowk and staged a protest around 11.45am. The traffic was blocked for half an hour, affecting vehicles coming from bus stand, Jagraon Bridge, Mall Road and Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road.
 
 ACP (west)   and division 5 police, including SHO inspector Jatinder Singh, reached the spot and pacified the agitators. The SHO assured the kin that rest of the accused would be arrested soon.
 
 Suraj Prakash, Varinder’s father who is a rickshaw-puller, alleged that the police were not acting earnestly. The protesters gave police one day to arrest the accused or they would again hold an agitation.
 
 Later in the day, SHO Jatinder Singh said police have arrested three more accused, Sachin, Sajan and Shubham. “Shubham is a BA final-year student, Mandeep a B-Tech student, Sachin a photographer and Sajan is an auto driver,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 In his complaint to the police, Deepak Kumar said he and Varinder, along with their three other friends, were celebrating New Year in their residential area. “Since it was freezing cold, we decided to make tea, but there was no milk. Varinder and I went on a motorcycle to a dhaba near bus stand to buy a packet of milk. While I remained on the bike, Varinder went inside the dhaba, where the youths were present. Varinder was calling me, but the group thought he had abused them. It caused a verbal spat and they started beating him up. When I intervened, they attacked me too, but I managed to escape. Varinder was thrashed badly with sharp-edged weapons and baseball bats,” he said. 
 
 
