Recently in Kozhikode, a 45-year-old teacher found a student sleeping in her class. She asked him to stand up, but he hesitated. The teacher then told him that he can’t sleep in her class. The student got up, but to her shock, he left the class, shouting, “ninne njan kandoladi!” The stunned teacher was left speechless.

 And she is not the only teacher to face the ‘’ire’’ of the new gen students. “I don’t want you to teach my child,” said a father of a student to her dance teacher. His daughter, a student in a private school at Thiruvananthapuram, had complained that her teacher had hit her six times the previous day. But then, according to the teacher, Sruthi Nair, she was just correcting her dance steps. “It was not even hitting but just taps on her feet to make her moves perfect, but what I got in return was accusations,” says Sruthi.
 
 In yet another school, a teacher gave a student of his a talking to, after finding that he was in bad company. The very next day, the teacher found a complaint registered against him at the local police station. The student had accused him of child sex abuse! A teacher who was witness to the entire scene says, “Male teachers have to think twice before talking to students today — be it a girl or boy — as they are afraid of sexual allegations.”
 
 These are just three among the thousands of incidents where teachers in Kerala face difficulties while handling students of Generation Z. “We are in a situation where we can’t even give them a reproachful look. Even that is considered corporal punishment. Not even God can predict how a complaint will pop up the next day,” says Sruthi. “Nowadays, if a child has not done his homework, he hasn’t, that’s it. We can’t even ask him why. Neither we nor the kids have a bond between us. It has become like customer-proprietor relationship and as we all know, customer is king. In schools, the students are the customers,” she says.
 
 Like a joke from a recent movie, it is no more ‘Matha Pitha Guru Daivam’ but ‘Matha Pitha Google Daivam’. According to Hareendranath A S, a Higher Secondary School teacher, teachers today are becoming diffident by the day, with the increasing number of complaints against them, which are even taken up legally and by departments like Child Rights and Human Rights Commissions. “Recently, a teacher named Sreedevi S committed suicide at Kollam following an incident at her school where she had tried to stop a few teenage students from consuming alcohol inside the classroom. The stress of dealing with the new generation children in class is becoming a serious issue in schools now. If teachers had authority earlier, now they are scared to say anything in class beyond the syllabus,” he says.
 
 Gone are the days when teachers were one of the most influential and powerful forces for equity, access to quality education and key to sustainable global development, Hareendranath adds. “We are in a situation where we can’t do our job with 100 percent commitment. Because then we might also scold or punish them. Isn’t that how we teach them to survive in this world?” he asks. Echoing his views, Sruthi says that when it comes to a relationship, all the emotions should be expressed, not just love and encouragement. “When punishment is needed, it should be meted out and when one should scold, they should. Now, there is a barrier between the kids and the teachers which leads to a lot of disciplinary issues,” she says.
 
 So they too need rights, just like the students, say the teachers. “It has become one-sided now. We need some rights to control our classes. The decision has to be taken by the education department so that we will have at least a bit of self-assurance while doing our job. Also, measures should be made to nurture a good parent-teacher relationship,” Hareendranath says.
 
 Considering the increased number of crimes by students, a project titled ‘Our Responsibility to Children (ORC)’ was formed in 2010, under the leadership of P Vijayan IPS. It was functioning in only 93 schools till 2017, but this year, they are planning to extend it to 304 schools in Kerala. “It was started in Kozhikode after students were found stealing motorbikes recurrently.
 
 It is currently under the Women and Child Department and aims to prevent school children from treading the wrong path, by improving the relationships between the students, teachers and parents, with the support of psychologists and counsellors. The problems dealt under the project include learning issues, adjustments disorders, emotional problems, behavioural troubles and familial and social issues. Once identified, the issues are categorised as mild, moderate and severe and are solved in the schools itself. Training is given to teachers and they will tackle the problems with the support of counsellors and health nurses appointed in the schools,” says Vidya T, State Programme officer, ORC.
 
 However, in Kerala, there are 36,80740 students studying in 14,417 schools and ORC has been implemented in just 304 schools. Also, the education department has no plans to introduce programmes to ensure the teachers’ welfare. An official from the Department of General Education tells us that they can only work in collaboration with the Child Rights Department and Human Rights Commission. “No education system has ever encouraged corporal punishment and neither can we encourage them. The era has changed and the system too should change accordingly. It is upto the teacher to employ new, smart tactics to deal with the kids. We are offering training to teachers on modern techniques. But we cannot give protection to teachers; if they are in the right, the law will save them,” he says.
 
 Parenting coach Sandhya Varma suggests that things can improve if the teachers and parents build a good rapport and deal with the kids hand-in-hand. “In a nuclear family, every child is king and queen. They get royal treatment as the parents give them only the best in everything. We don’t even make them feel the need for small things. But remember, your child is not the only king or queen in a school. Also, even if a child does something average, they give them applause today. There is no way for a child to get to know his weakness. The same approach is followed in schools. They want the parents to be happy and so will speak only good about the children,” she says.
 
 Meanwhile, Vinod Sekhar, a parent in Kochi, reveals that he was able to solve his son’s issues at school by taking an initiative to openly communicate with his teachers. “Once I had a proper conversation with his teachers, my son started going to school happily and it showed in his exam results too,” he says.
 
 Supporting Vinod, Hareendranath and Sruthi too say that parents can help immensely in creating a better atmosphere. “The parents should try to understand whether they can trust the teacher, by taking a bit of time to learn the truth of the situations. Then, I think most of the problems can be solved within the school itself,” Hareendranath says.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
