KOLKATA: Elegant assets require smart facilities and the   depot at   for the   corridor has just that.

 
 The depot, on 38.5 acres, has several sheds. The one where the first BEML rake is now parked has pit lines (facility for technicians to work underneath in an erect position) where trains can undergo periodic overhaul (POH). The shed also has advanced jacks that allows all six coaches of a train to be lifted simultaneously.
  
  
 “There is nothing like this in any carshed in Kolkata. There are no cranes here. The six-coach synchronizing jack allows technicians to carry out an overhaul within 90 minutes. For rakes at other sheds, the overhaul of a single coach takes nearly two days. This means that it takes nearly16 days to overhaul a train there. Here, that can be done in 90 minutes,” a   official said. Metro is now trying to replicate part of the shed at its facility in Noapara.
 
 “There is an automatic car wash plant on the way to the stabling shed. Trains entering the shed or leaving it will get washed automatically. This will save time and effort and the results would be far better than a manual wash. The stabling shed has 15 lines. While 10 of these will be used for stabling the rakes after commercial services come to an end for the day, the remaining five will primarily be used for maintenance. When the number of rakes increases, we may also use the maintenance lines of stabling,” the official added.
 
 Metro Railway is gearing up to take charge of operations after the new rakes clear trials. “So far as the propulsion and other systems go, the BEML rakes are different from the new ICF ones that are undergoing trials for the North-South corridor. Metro has formed a core committee of 20 people who are visiting Bengaluru to learn more about the system of the BEML rakes. One team has already returned after a week’s stay at Bengaluru,” another official said.
 
  depot also adheres to top safety standards. The third rail, from where the rakes draw power, ends at a distance from the shed. The rakes are supposed to roll into the shed from this point. However, in case the rakes don’t have sufficient momentum, there is a cable — a ‘stringer’ — that supplies 750V to the driving motor cars from an overhead feed.
 
