NEW DELHI: On the  , a Left-leaning student leader said she was assaulted by   at   on Thursday. 

  was invited to speak at an event organised by She the People TV, Google and the college’s family counselling centre on ‘Sexual harassment in the digital space’. Kaur said she was invited not as an AISA leader. 
 
 Shaili Chopra, founder of She the People TV, tweeted about what happened: “We organized a discussion on women’s safety and we had students from unions who came and disrupted our talk at a time Kawalpreet talked about how women are trolled. Shocked that this is what colleges are about—politically motivated groups of men threatening, manhandling.” 
 
 A co-panellist of Kaur, lawyer Esha Shekhar, also wrote on Facebook that Kaur was “harassed openly by hooligans of the college where the event was happening”.
 
 The college students’ union levelled a counter allegation and accused Kaur of fomenting trouble. Kunal Yadav, general secretary of the union, told TOI some 30 of them “never interacted with Kaur but had gone to the auditorium to ask our teachers why Kaur was invited to the college when she has been banned from entering Satyawati evening college, which functions out of our premises”. 
 
 In a complaint to the head of the college proctorial committee, Yadav claimed Kaur is known to instigate students in Delhi University and had done so at the college last year. He also claimed that Kaur was not attacked, but she had called the police to throw out innocent college students.
 
 Kaur contested these claims and said after her talk was over, she went and sat with the organisers. “But some 30 students barged into the auditorium, started to abuse me and demanded that I be kicked out of the college,” Kaur said. 
 
 She also contested the claim that she was barred from entering the college. College principal V S Mishra told TOI that there was no such ban on anyone. But he refused to comment on the incident. 
 
 Kaur also said that she left the college “only when police were called in by some teachers”. “A human chain was formed for me. But when I started to take some videos, they tried to snatch my phone, and some professors who were trying to rescue me also got hit. The principal went to the podium and told everyone to maintain decorum, but they didn’t listen,” Kaur said. 
 
 Kaur also said, “It is ironic that an event to talk about harassment saw disruption by students affiliated to ABVP.” 
 
 ABVP, however, claimed Kaur’s presence was objected to by students union members and not the outfit. 
 
 A teacher of the college said on the condition of anonymity that many of those who created the disruption were outsiders. A source also said that the suspension of two students was being considered. 
 
 Ramjas student Ayan Mrinal said the attack was of anxiety and not strength. 
 
 An FIR was lodged on Kaur’s complaint. 
 
