(cleared)

 Chennai: DMK working president   on Saturday demanded the immediate resignation of chief minister   for not rolling back the bus fare hike despite pleas from various corners. Leading a statewide protest against bus fare hike in Chennai, Stalin said corruption is the main reason for the poor finances of transport corporations. 
 
 Corruption, he said, starts right from printing of bus tickets and warned that the party will not hesitate to kindle more such protests across the state if the government did not make amends. While the main protest was held at Chepauk, similar protests were held in other parts of Chennai city as well as across the state. “The chief minister said it is only with heavy heart that the bus fare has been increased. If really there is a heart, then you must immediately roll back the fare hike otherwise resign from the post,” Stalin said.
 
 He said if the chief minister neither refuses to resign nor rolls back the bus fare hike, DMK will continue protests. “Today we are protesting at designated places in all cities and towns as per police permission. But if the chief minister refuses to react, DMK will start indefinite protests from January 29. Was it possible to prevent the Marina protests seeking jallikattu or did anyone could stop the anti-Hindi protests in 1965. Similarly the bus protests will also continue till the government withdraws the hike,” said Stalin. 
 
 Stalin said the January 19 increase in bus fares had come as a jolt to ordinary people. He said many of them such as daily wage labourers were now forced to spend a large part of their earnings towards transport expenses. “I had written to the chief minister asking him to withdraw the hike, and that the matter should be discussed in the state assembly for which the House should be convened. But they are only giving accounts of losses (suffered by transport corporations) but have no time for remedial measures,” he said.
 
 He recalled that during the DMK regime between 2006-2011, chief minister M Karunanidhi never effected such a hike, despite repeated pleas from officials from the transport department. “Karunanidhi would decline their plea saying state-run transport corporations were not meant to make profit and that any losses should be borne keeping in mind the interests of the people,” Stalin said.
 
 Meanwhile, in Vellore, DMK senior leader   said the incompetent and maladministration of the ruling government has resulted in the steep increase of the bus fares that put the common on quandary. He took part in a protest against the state government to roll back the bus fare hike. DMK cadres have also staged demonstrationsat n Ranipet and Tirupattur in Vellore and Tiruvannamalai districts respectively.
 
 Tension prevailed in   as police denied permission to DMK functionaries to stage a protest. Six people, including two children, sustained injuries as a cart toppled during a rally conducted by DMK functionaries in Karur. The bulls which were pulling the cart ran amok on the main road and hit a two-wheeler rider. DMK cadres staged protests across delta districts.
 
 
