 is the newest trend to enter the fitness bandwagon. Not only does it mean that you get to spend quality time with your partner but a big bonus point is that you get fit, together. This way you get to be a part of each other's transformation. Along with celebrity fitness trainer Neeraj Mehta and trainer Jesika Gulati, we bring to you an easy   you can do from the comfort of your home and without having to struggle to take out time for each other. 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Spot run: Face your partner. Stand straight. Gradually start running in your place. Make sure you lift your toes and land on your heels. You can do this for 15-20 seconds to get the momentum started.
 
 Hopping: You can either keep a mat and place your feet at equal distance with each other or continue the exercise without a mat, but remember to keep equal distance while hopping from side to side. Face your partner and jump at the same time to the other side. Again, remember to lift your toes and land on your knees. Repeat this 15 times.
 
 Alternate knee ups: Stand straight. Now lift your right leg to the left side and raise both your hands up. Repeat this alternatively with your left leg as well. Do this 20 times.
 
 Alternate kicks: Face your partner and stand straight. Keep your arms close to your body. Now lift your right leg up, let it remain straight and kick in the air. Simultaneously, your partner should do the same. Since both of you will be in front of each other, starting from the right side is advisable to remain in sync. Do this with your left leg as well. Repeat this 10 times.
  
 
 
 Squats: Stand facing your partner and hold hands. Now, bend on your knees, keeping your back straight, hips aligned with your calf muscles and look forward. Do not do squats in a hurried manner, feel the stretch while going down and coming up. Repeat this 10 times.
 
 Forward n Backward Lunges: Let your partner stand by your side. You should face one side and your partner should face the opposite side. Hold your partner’s hand. Next, you need to go forward and bend your right knee while your partner repeats the same with their side. The other leg should remain stretched at the back. Switch sides and do it from your left leg now. Repeat this 10 times.
 
 Push-ups: You will need a mat for this exercise. Lie down on the floor. Next, come up on your toes and hands. Keep your hands, back and leg straight. If you are not comfortable with this position, you can bend your knees and cross legs and remain on your hands. Go down and come up without touching the floor. Breathe in while going down and breathe out while coming up. Repeat this 10 times.
 
 Partner crunches: Lie down on the floor. Bend your knees and lock your feet with your partners to maintain support. Now, come up, clap your partner and go back down. Remember to keep your back straight to avoid any injury. Repeat this 20 times.
 
 Plank and hop: This exercise is tricky, hence pay attention. Let your partner lie down on the floor. Now, they need to come up on their elbows and toes and come in the plank position. You need to be extra-careful as you need to hop from side to side on top of them. Give this exercise a try first without shoes. Vice-versa, your partner will hop and you will remain in the plank position. Repeat this 6-7 times.
 
 Leg raises: Both of you should lie down the floor, opposite to each other and head touching. Now, hold each other’s hands and arms to support your body and your partner’s as well. Next, lift your legs up and while you do that, try touching your toes with your partners. If you can’t do it, then also it is fine. Repeat this 10 times.
 
 Lying leg cycling: Staying in the same position as above (the leg raise exercise), cycle your legs. Keep your hips and calf muscles aligned. Do this 15 times.
 
 Leg press: Lie down on the floor while your partner remains standing. Now, bend your knees and place your feet on your partner. Move your legs while your partner comes up and down simultaneously.
 
 Climbing with pulse: Come down on your hands and toes. Now bend your right knee and bring it forward with a jump. Let the other leg remain straight. Alternatively, repeat the same with your left leg. Repeat this 8 times with each leg.
 
 Side plank hold: Lie down on the side of your body. Now, come up on your elbow and side of your foot. Your partner can lie down right behind you. Keep your body aligned with the floor and stay there for 15 seconds. Repeat same on your other side.
 
 Side plank move: Remain in the side plank pose. Next, come up on your hand and let it remain straight. Lift your torso up and down. Do not touch it on the floor and do not bend your hands. Repeat the same with your other side. Do this for 8 times on each side. Finish with staying up and stretching your hand facing the ceiling.
 
 Partner assisted split leg stretch: Spread your legs and sit in front of your partner. Let both of your feet stretch the other’s legs and vice-versa. Now, hold your partner’s hand. Next, when you go forward and stretch your arms, your partner should go back pulling you towards them. You need to repeat the same vice-versa. Do this 10 times.
 
 Forward bent and ridge: Sit on the floor with your back to your partner. The next part is tricky, hence be careful. While your partner stretches forward and bends, you need to lift your back up, support your back side with theirs and form a half moon position. Try and touch your hands on the floor doing this. This exercise needs to be repeated vice-versa. Do this 2-3 times.
 
