Veteran actress   passed away earlier today due to a cardiac arrest. She was 54. The sudden demise of Sridevi has left the entire nation in a deep state of shock. Sridevi started off as a child artist and went on to rule the box-office in the ‘80s and '90s. 

  
  
 She’s known for her successful collaborations with actors   and  . Even after all these years, Sridevi is more often known for her stellar performance in the film 'Sadma/Moondram Pirai', directed by Balu Mahendra. Sridevi made a comeback in Tamil after several years in 'Puli', which also remains to be her last film in the language. 
 
 
 Reacting to the untimely death of Sridevi, Rajinikanth tweeted, “I’m shocked and very disturbed. I’ve lost a dear friend and the industry has lost a true legend. My heart goes out to her family and friends. I feel the pain with them RIP Sridevi ... you will be missed.”
  
  
 
 Sridevi and Kamal Haasan are one of the most iconic pairs of Tamil cinema, who have acted in over 34 films together. 
 
 
 Kamal took to Twitter to mourn Sridevi’s death. He wrote, “Have witnessed Sridevi's life from an adolescent teenager to the magnificent lady she became. Her stardom was well deserved. Many happy moments with her flash through my mind including the last time I met her. Sadma's lullaby haunts me now. We'll miss her.” 
  
  
 
 Actor Madhavan wrote, “Shocked and deeply saddened by the tragic and sudden passing away of a Legend of Indian Cinema #Srideviji. Cant imagine what the family is going thru.Our industry will never be the same again.She was the kindest soul apart from being a Giant performer.The heavens are lucky. RIP”
 
  
  
 
 Shruti Haasan condoled her death on Twitter, which reads, “Absolutely shocked and heartbroken, cannot believe this terrible news :( it was such an honour to have been able to watch an absolute talent like Sridevi mam working and interacting with people with her grace and http://beauty.im just so speechless.”
 
  
  
 
  said, “Extremely sad and shocked to hear about the sudden demise of my most favourite actor and role model, #Sridevi Ma'am.. this must be so difficult, my heartfelt condolences to the family
 
  
  
 
  wrote, “This is unbelievable...dearest Sridevi....”
 
  
  
 
 Sridevi’s friend and actress   wrote. “just woke up to the saddest news..#Sridevi is no more amongst us..the most talented and most beautiful..no words to express the grief..my deepest condolences to the family..May the force be with them in such hard times..her childlike laughter will be missed.”
 
  
  
 
 Academy Award winner AR Rahman, who had worked with Sridevi in her 'Mom', condoled her demise on Twitter.
 
 He tweeted, "RIP @SrideviBKapoor ...Condolences to the whole family :("
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
