KOTA: An assistant fire officer posted in   was arrested by a sleuth of   ( ) Kota Friday noon after he accepted a bribe of Rs 7000. The accused officer accepted the bribe for the renewal of NOC for fire to a private school situated in Dara town of Kota district. 

 “Assistant fire officer   posted in Kota was arrested Friday noon after he accepted a bribe of Rs. 7000 from the proprietor of a private school in Dara town of the district,” assistant superintendent of police (ASP), ACB, Kota Chandrasheel Thakur said. “The fire officer had demanded bribe of Rs 15000 for the renewal of fire NOC to the private school,” he added. The proprietor of the private school named Sharad Chaturvedi complained the matter to ACB, Kota on Thursday following which the verification of the complaint was carried out today morning. The bribe amount at the time of verification was settled at Rs 7000 and the assistant fire officer called the proprietor to his office at Srinathpuram area on Friday.
 
 “The accused fire officer took the bribe in his personnel car outside his office and went to drop the proprietor but noticing the ACB personnel already deployed there, he accelerated his car,” the ASP said. In an attempt to stop the moving car, one of the ACB personnel identified as Sathendra Singh sustained leg and hand injuries. The ACB teams nabbed the assistant fire officer in his car near his house in Borekheda area about 12 to 13 kilometers away from his office. “The bribe amount could not be recovered from his possession as the accused either threw it away or handed it over to someone else on the way however his hands, fingers and the dashboard of the car where he could have placed the money were tested for color of the currency notes which is a strong evidence of the crime,” he said.
 
 “The accused, at the time of verification also mentioned names of two senior officers as co-sharer of the bribe and their role is also under suspicion and is being examined. The accused officer would be produced before the ACB court on Saturday,” the ASP added. 
 
 
