PUNE: A fresh spell of snow in Srinagar is making March unusually cool for the city. The night temperature dipped to the season’s lowest on Friday morning to 12.4 degrees C, an unusual temperature for March-end. Shivajinagar also recorded the coldest night in the state on Friday. In fact, it was even cooler than Dehradun, Mahabaleshwar, Jammu and Madikeri.

 AK  , head of the climate monitoring and analysis group at IMD, Pune, told TOI that the city has not only been cloud-free, but the moisture or humidity level in the air has reduced drastically over the last few days. “Normally, even when there are no clouds, we see some moisture in the air. However, there has been a significant reduction in moisture recently, which has caused a fall in night temperatures,” said Srivastava. Lack of cloud cover and moisture in the night aid a dip in temperature.
 
 
  
 
 Moreover, Srivastava pointed out that another reason for the drop in the minimum temperature is the transfer of cold air from north India. Shimla, Manali, Srinagar and Dehradun recently recorded rains, with snowfall in some parts. “Northerly winds are blowing in parts of the state off late due to the cold weather in parts of north India,” Srivastava explained.
 
 The cloud cover in the city has been minimal to nearly absent, data from IMD revealed. “Thursday and Friday mornings were cloud-free, while March 21 had cloud cover up to 3 oktas,” another IMD official said. An okta is a unit of measurement used to describe the extent of cloud cover. Cloudy conditions are gauged in terms of how many eighths of the sky are covered in cloud, ranging from 0 oktas (completely clear sky) to 8 oktas (completely overcast).
 
 In fact, night temperatures have dipped across most locations in the state, with Pune (Shivajinagar) recording the lowest temperature in Maharashtra on the night intervening Thursday and Friday. Temperature began dipping from March 17, although stations at Shivajinagar and Lohegaon were recording higher than normal day and night temperatures even earlier.
 
 On March 20, city’s night temperature dipped to 15.9 degrees C in Shivajinagar and has been dropping ever since. During previous years, night temperature in March would usually dip to this level during the first 10 days of the month, not towards the end.
 
 Last year, temperatures were soaring in March during this period. For instance, on March 23, 2017, the day temperature in Shivajinagar stood at 37.7 degrees C and over 18 degrees C in the night, while Lohegaon was hotter still.
 
 The city’s day temperature is also lower than what was recorded in March last year. The current temperatures have essentially pushed the diurnal variation to an abnormal 22 degrees C, which is likely to cause a further increase in infection rate.
 
 Meanwhile, sources said that an icy crust formed over strawberry plants and other plantations near the Venna Lake and Lingmala in Mahabaleshwar, as the temperature in these areas fell lower than that recorded in other parts of the hill station.
 
 
