LUDHIANA: No considerable gap between Class XII   has raised the anxiety levels of students and teachers. Worried, many students from Ludhiana have written to Central Board of Secondary Education, requesting to revise the exam timetable.

 TOI has copies of many such emails.
 
 The students who are most tense are those who belong to humanities and non-medical streams.
 
 The teachers are worried about the students’ performance in the exam as students will get very little time to prepare before their physics and web technology exams.
 
 Also there is little gap between psychology and political science; physical education and sociology; and legal studies and psychology, with the exams of each of the pairs falling on consecutive dates. Also, non-medical students will have a tough time with Joint Entrance Exam (mains) scheduled a day before their physical education paper.
 
 On Wednesday, CBSE released the date sheet for Class X and XII students.
 
 “Most of the exams have adequate gaps, but for some there are none, which is quite stressful. The datesheet of humanities stream has not been set appropriately,” says Ananya Gupta, student of Sacred Heart school, Sarabha Nagar.
 
 “We don’t have a gap of even one day between some exams. How can CBSE prepare an exam schedule that does not have break? We don’t have enough time to revise. They should know the importance of these exams and the tough competition we face. It’s quite stressful for each and every student,” said  , humanities student of Shri Harkrishan Public School.
 
 “The datesheet, announced a bit late, is quite shocking. Students of all the streams have enough time to prepare in between exams, but for humanities, the time is too little. I feel tense thinking how to prepare for exams. But I must manage my schedule anyhow. Time management will be very important,” said  , student of DAV School.
 
 “I was eagerly waiting for the date sheet. And when it came, it gave me major disappointment. I’m so confused now as what to study and what to leave for end days,” said Nandini Jain, a humanities student.
 
 Teachers shared similar disappointment over the date sheet. “CBSE hasn’t given much preparatory time between major exams. This had happened for one or two subjects previous year as well. But, this is the situation in several major combinations,” said Prateek Bansal, a city-based physics teacher.
 
 Class X students anxious too
 
 For Class X exams, students also had some issues with date sheet. “I think the exams of toughest subjects like science and mathematics should be held in the beginning when we have ample time to prepare,” said Prabhsimran Singh, Class X student,   School, Sanawar.
 
 “I have almost 2-3 days break between all my papers. Alongside, I am getting around 4-day leave for my science paper which is one of my toughest subjects. So, I’m super glad,” said Mrinal Gupta, a student of  .
 
 “Overall date sheet is fine. But I think we should have more time to prepare for social science exam,” says Mannat Miglani, student of  , Shastri Nagar.
 
 
