RAJKOT: The Rajkot Municipal Corporation ( ) has finalized the design of two underbridges, which when constructed are expected to considerably ease the nagging traffic snarls on two busiest roads of the city.

 One underbridge is planned KKV crossroad on   while another will be built on Raiya Road, which will cover Amrapali railway crossing which has become a headache for daily commuters. Commuters on Kalavad Road will be able to simultaneously move the main road, take the underbridge or use the existing overbridge. 
 
 The underpasses will cost Rs 20 crore each.
 
 RMC claims that this two underbridges will solve the frustrating traffic problem on busiest roads. The design of KKV underbridge has been planned on the lines of Thaltej underpass on   highway in Ahmedabad. However, in Rajkot, the traffic will also move from the existing overbridge simultaneously, thus making this will a triple-decker. Traffic heading to south from north or vice versa can use the overbridge to pass from KKV cross road while vehicles between east and can take the underbridge to pass KKV crossroad. Commuters who want to take a turn at KKV crossroad towards   or Indira circle can use the side road.
 
 Municipal commissioner Banchha Nidhi Pani said, “Our survey revealed that 80% traffic during peak hours comes from Kalavad Road to Mahila College while 67% traffic moves from Mahila College to Kalavad Road. Therefore this underbridge will ease most of the traffic problem during the peak hours. The height of underbridge will be 5.5 meters so that heavy vehicles like buses can also pass through it.”
 
 The underbridge will start from St. Mary Public School and end at Sadguru Palace, the total length being 380 meters. The civic body has finalized the design and the tendering process will be completed within two months. RMC expects the facility to be ready for use in 18 months from the allocation of work.
 
 The civic body has also finalized the design for Raiya Road underbridge which will cover the crucial Amrapali railway crossing. The underbridge will start from old   and end the old cancer hospital, the length being 370 meter. There will be service roads on both sides for people living in the residential societies. However, this design is yet to get the nod of railway authorities and the work will begin after its approval.
 
 Mayor Jaiman Upadhyay said, “The two underpasses will not only ease traffic congestion but also help save fuel, commuters time and reduce the number of accidents.” 
 
 
