In the age of Facebook likes and Instagram and Snapchat stories, pictures from your college   can prove to be nothing short of a torture even if an inch of your look isn’t ‘perfect’. That is why, months before their farewell, ‘I am not going to eat anything oily’ and ‘when are we going for our   shopping’ become hot topics of discussion among girls. The pressure comes with the struggle to find that perfect sari in the perfect colour for the farewell, since it can’t be just any sari that nails the look. Who doesn’t want to garner compliments on the last official event of college after all? So begins their hunt. While for some girls, it ends after they’ve explored almost every market in the city, others pick their favourite from their mom’s wardrobe.

  
  POSERS ON DUTY!
 
 
 
 The soon-to-be-graduates spend days to find the perfect sari, which involve regular, multiple visits to different markets. Nayan Jhangiani, a third-year student from   says, “I tried almost 20 saris in ten days before I finalized one in black. We had to look our best on our last day of the college, and I thought it was the ideal sari. There are a lot of things that you have to keep in mind before selecting the perfect sari – you have to look slim in it, the blouse should fit perfectly, the earrings should match, what bracelet would go with it – it’s not an easy task.”
 
  
  PICTURE PERFECT 
 
 Aparna Noyal, a third-year student from JDMC also had a tough time locking her farewell look. “I went to four-five markets to hunt for the perfect sari. I went to Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar,  , Laxmi Nagar and finally bought a sari from Chandni Chowk. I wanted a sari with a thin border, but in Chandni Chowk, all of them were very gawdy. So, I bought a cloth, got it dyed and then bought a ready-made blouse to go with it. I am really happy that my entire look is done in under `1,500. It was important for me to look my best on my farewell as I’ve worn slippers and pyjamas to college because of the 9am classes. So I wanted to look completely different on my farewell,” she says.
 
  
  Shayra Sharma
 
 
 
 While some students hunt for their farewell saris in different markets, some begin the hunt from their mother’s almirahs. “I tried the saris of my mother, sister, and bhabhi. I wanted to wear black, so I picked a sari from my bhabhi’s wardrobe. After I tried that sari, I wasn’t satisfied with it, so my mom selected a cotton sari for me. I was really confused, and ended up wearing my sister’s blue-coloured sari, which had a very rich look. More than anything, I think there’s a competition among everybody to look their best on that day,” says Muskan Rao from  .
 
  
  
 Mehak Kochchar from   adds, “We were informed about our farewell only five days prior to the event. That is why girls actually ended up wearing crop tops as blouses. The final semester was all about the farewell hype – selecting the perfect sari, the perfect colour and of course, getting the perfect body. Even though I have been asking my mom to help me with my sari since February, I guess a farewell isn’t complete until you’ve had anxiety attacks and mental breakdowns over your ‘perfect look’. After all, it’s your last day of college. You need everything to be just right.You’ve picturised yourself in a certain way – your hair, your make up, the heels, and most importantly, ‘your perfect sari’.”
 
  
  
 
 For many of these students, even the slightest of problems to get the perfect look has been enough to get them into a fight with their family members or just sob over the fact that they won’t be able look their best. Priya Nangia from JDMC tells us, “Ab gharwalon pe hi toh gussa aayega na. I was planning to buy a sari for a month. It was only after I rejected three saris that I narrowed down to a favourite. Pehle main aur meri mummy CP gaye, hum saare showrooms mein gaye, kuch nahi mila. Uske baad doosri markets ghoomi, my mother liked one sari, but I was not satisfied with it. Maine ladayi kari unse, main royi kyunki mujhe lag raha tha ki main achhi nahi lagungi and she will not get it. Uske baad jaake jo sari mili, woh hi maine farewell pe peheni.”
 Shayra Sharma from the same college adds, “I was irritated that after roaming around in so markets, I wasn’t able to find the perfect sari for me. It is the last day to look your best, tab main bhi royi sari ke struggle mein.”
  
  
 
 Divita Bora, a third-year student from  , says, “I tried three-four saris before finalising ‘the one’. I had to invest more in my sari because our farewell was at night. So I had to choose one which would look nice at night also. I chose a plain sari with a glittery blouse, but even then my pictures were not perfect because of the light. That is the saddest part.”
 
  
 
