LUCKNOW: With the   (BSP) candidate, backed by   (SP), losing to BJP in the   polls on Friday, will the bonhomie between the two arch rivals - who came together to hand out a stunning defeat to BJP in the recently-concluded byelections in UP - continue? 

 
 The first strong signal, despite the loss, came from BSP national general secretary and  's close aide Satish Chandra Mishra, who said that the "SP did its best in supporting the BSP candidate."
 
  
  
 
 SP was equally receptive. The party called off celebrations planned to mark the victory of its lone candidate Jaya Bachchan to show its solidarity towards the BSP.
 
 "We had the required votes to secure Jaya Bachchan's victory and had planned celebrations in advance. But, party chief   Yadav cancelled the programme once results began pouring in," said Akhilesh's close aide and SP MLC Udaiveer Singh. The celebrations included a dinner at a five star hotel in Lucknow and a "Bhajan sandhya" at the party office where apart from Akhilesh and Jaya Bachchan, party patriarch   was also slated to attend among other top leaders.
 
 According top priority to his alliance with Mayawati in the Rajya Sabha polls, Akhilesh deputed some of his senior and trusted MLAs to vote for the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) nominee on Friday. The move, that may have put to risk SP's own candidate, is being seen as an attempt of the SP chief to win over Mayawati for a more formal and strong alliance ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 Akhilesh picked trusted MLAs to vote for BSP
 
 With a total of 47 MLAs, SP had fielded Jaya Bachchan as its candidate with 10 MLAs to spare for the BSP nominee as per the tie-up with Mayawati ahead of the Lok Sabha bypolls. However, after party MLA Nitin Agarwal joined BJP just days before the RS election and another MLA Hari Om, who was in jail, was denied permission to vote, the party was left with only eight extra MLAs. This when the party had already assured support of at least nine MLAs to the BSP supremo in the RS polls.
 
 Taking no chances that could disrupt the new found SP-BSP bonhomie, SP insiders said Akhilesh went ahead to mend fences with independent MLA Raghuraj Pratap Singh who was a member of his cabinet in the SP. Eventually, Raghuraj announced his support to Akhilesh at the SP’s dinner party held on Wednesday. Thereafter, the SP chief hand-picked some of his most trusted legislators to vote for the BSP candidate to ensure that the party did not cut a sorry figure in case some of the party MLAs switched loyalties at the last moment. The final list of MLAs who would vote for the BSP was drawn on Thursday evening.
 
 On Friday, top SP leaders including leader of Opposition in assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary, Akhilesh’s two trused MLAs Subhash Pasi and Shailendra Yadav alias Lallai—who was the SP’s polling agent for the RS elections—voted for BSP, according to senior party leaders. “The list also included names like Manoj Paras, Nahid Hasan, Rafeeq Ansari, Virendra Yadav, Prabhu Narain Singh and Gauriganj MLA Rakesh Pratap Singh, who was the host of the SP dinner held on Wednesday,” said a party MP who was privy to the list. “Putting his trusted men in the list goes on to show that Akhilesh kept weak links with himself to vote for the SP candidate and in case of any crossvoting, it could have put the party candidate’s election in jeopardy,” said a political commentator.
 
 Political observers describe Akhilesh decision to depute party veteran like Ram Govind Chaudhary and Shailendra Yadav Lallai among others to vote for the BSP as an attempt to send a message across to the BSP leadership that he has not only lived up to the “dharma” of the SP-BSP tie-up but at the cost of putting to risk the election of SP’s otherwise secure candidate.
 
 
 
