HUBBALLI:   corporator Mohan Hiremani is in trouble after he reportedly posted a GIF file of chief minister Siddaramaiah to the Hubballi-Dharwad Mahila Congress WhatsApp   on Tuesday.

 Congress elected representatives from Hubballi-Dharwad, including district minister Vinay Kulkarni, MLA Prasad Abbayya and KPCC women’s wing president Laxmi Hebbalkar are members of this group.
 
 Group administrator Anita Gunjal said, “The file was sent to the group from Mohan Hiremani’s mobile. I was shocked to find this objectionable image which shows an animated image of the CM which changes into an image of a chimpanzee. This angered all group members. I immediately replied that it’s an insult to the Congress party and its leaders. He sent this image to the group on Tuesday night and I saw it on Wednesday morning. All members objected to it. Later, I removed him from the group. I request all group members to verify messages and images before forwarding it or posting them on social media.”
 
 Sources said Hiremani wants to contest from the   constituency, currently represented by Prasad Abbayya. Hiremani was reportedly upset when Siddaramaiah openly announced that Abbayya would be the next candidate of this constituency during his recent visit to participate in the Sadhana Samavesh held in the constituency.
 
 Hiremani said: “Somebody included me as a member of this group a few months ago. I don’t know how this animated image was sent to the Mahila Congress WhatsApp group. I was busy at a function on Tuesday night. I really don’t know how to use WhatsApp and other social media. It must be the handiwork of my detractors trying to tarnish my image. I’m an aspirant for the ticket from Hubballi-Dharawd East which is a reserved ST constituency. But, it has nothing to do with this development. I’ll file a police complaint about it.”
 
 Altaf Hallur, president,   committee said: “We have served a show-cause notice to Mohan Hiremani seeking an explanation for posting such an image. If his reply is not satisfactory, I’ll recommend to the KPCC to suspend him from the party.”
 
 
