Everyone prefers to have a plate of good home-cooked meal when they return to their house after a long day at work. At most times, cuisines served at   courts and office canteens are either tasteless or overpriced, owing to which a lot of   in Bengaluru seem to keep searching for homemade delicacies. Built along the lines of the popular 
  culture in Mumbai, tiffin services are mushrooming across the city. But what’s encouraging about this growing trend is that it has facilitated the creation of a huge network of homemakers to pursue their passion for cooking, support their families financially and, more importantly, build their own identity. This International Women’s Day, we asked a few of these home chefs how it feels to be the women 
  of Bengaluru. And here’s what they have to say...

  
 
 It is my first job. I cook meals and snacks at home and supply them to people through a tiffin-service app, called FoodyBuddy. The best thing about this job is that now people know me by my own name. They recognize the food I cook and even call me directly to place an order. It feels really good to have my own identity. From simple 
  meals to Paneer Butter Masala and Chicken Curry, there are demands for all kinds of breakfast, lunch and dinner items. It’s a convenient job, where I get to pursue my passion for cooking and also support my family.
 
  
 
 I run Adukkala (meaning kitchen in Malayalam) with three more ladies from our apartment complex. It’s a very simple service, wherein we float the day’s menu on a WhatsApp group that comprises a number of households in the complex. People, mostly working men and women who prefer home-cooked food, but are too tired to come back home and prepare anything themselves, order the meals. We make the 
  ready by late evening and deliver them ourselves. The cooking is mostly Kerala-style, but we also serve north Indian vegetarian and non-vegetarian varieties. I am an MTech graduate, and had left my job years ago to take care of my children at home. This   feels like a great way to get back to working life.
 
  
 
 I work through an online platform called Oota Box. It’s like bringing out the hidden chef in me. I also work at an office, hence cater to orders only at certain time periods during the day. Again, if I have cooked something special, I alert customers through the portal and they can place the order accordingly. That way, things remain less stressful and I can enjoy my cooking time.
 
  
 
 From different types of pulao, paratha and 
 to Bisi Bele Bath and more, my 
  consist of a variety of food items. I used to deliver food through Oota Box only, but now people in my neighbourhood have also started ordering the meals. This tiffin service has given me a new identity, and my family members have also been cooperative. It keeps me busy through the day.
 
 
