MOHALI: A case of a 26-year-old youth getting arrested in Canada after allegedly being duped by a Mohali-based immigration firm has come to light.

  was arrested by the Canadian immigration department for using fake documents to gain admission in a college. The fake documents were allegedly provided by Orange Overseas Immigration and British Library Immigration, which has an office in Phase 3B2 market.
 
 A case was registered on May 15 against four immigration company employees, Jasmeet Kaur, a resident of Phase X, and Amandeep Kaur, Atul and   at the Mataur police station.
 
 The incident dates back to January. Police said  , a resident of   village in   district, wanted to go abroad for higher studies after completing his graduation in engineering.
 
 According to the complaint filed by Lovepreet’s mother Sarbjeet Kaur in February, he had approached the immigration company for a study visa. He was provided the study visa of Canada and an offer letter of a college, where he was supposed to get admission. Apart from that, the accused also gave him a receipt of the college fees. However, this document was declared fake by the college.
 
 The victim was arrested by the immigration officials of Canada on January 13, the FIR said.
 
 The FIR stated that after the college denied him admission, Lovepreet got in touch with the accused, who provided him offer letter for admission in another college. Based on fresh documents, Lovepreet took admission in another college. However, in the meantime, the first college had complained to the immigration department, which arrested him soon after on January 13.
 
 Later, Lovpreet got bail and has been given him time till May 31 for showing legal documents.
 
 Sarbjeet Kaur alleged, “We sent our son abroad for study by spending lakhs of rupees. But my son faced harassment there due to the fraud of the immigration company.”
 
 Mataur station house officer said, “Four employees of the firm have been booked under Sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (document or electronic record) and 120-B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of the IPC.”
 
 
