KANYAKUMARI: A 62-year-old man, who had been sexually abusing two minor sisters for nearly a year was arrested by the Kuzhithurai all-woman police on Friday. The victims, aged 10 and nine years old are undergoing treatment at the   in Asaripallam, Nagercoil.

 The accused were identified as M Devaraj, J Tensing, 45, and N Prabhu, 32, of  . While Devaraj was arrested on Friday, a search is on for the other two.
 
 The incident came to light when the girls were admitted to the Kuttakuzhi primary health centre few days ago after they complained of severe abdominal pain and fever. “The girls are studying Classes 4 and 3 in a nearby school. Their father is a daily wage labourer while their mother works in a cashewnut factory,” district child protection officer ( ) S   told TOI.
 
 According to the DCPO, the family was residing near Vattavilai in Kanyakumari and the girls used to be under the care of a caretaker till the mother returned from work, late in the evenings.
 
 Kumuda added that the doctor who was shocked over the nature of injuries the girls had suffered, spoke to them to confirm if they were sexually abused, which the girls confirmed. The doctor then took the incident to the notice of the district child protection unit, following which a counsellor was sent to talk to the girls.
 
 Police sources said that the men lured the girls by offering them Rs 2 and Rs 5 to buy chocolates, when they were playing in front of their house. They took the sisters to the house of Tensing and abused them girls in turns. It is learnt that one of the girls told their mother about the abuse about a week ago but no complaint was filed then. “When the woman confronted one of the abusers, he threatened to kill her if she told anyone,” the DCPO said.
 
 Based on the statement of the girls, the child protection unit informed the police and the Kuzhithurai all woman police registered a case against the trio. Preliminary inquiry revealed that all the three men are daily wage labourers, were married and had families.
 
 
