HYDERABAD: Believe it or not, but police officials are now looking at the possibility of a bird dropping the severed head of a four-month-old infant on the terrace of a house at  . On the other hand, in the   pregnant woman murder case, police are yet to establish the identity of the victim. 

 Special teams of   police are looking into all possible angles from using body fluid detector to local hands in the baby case. House owners, relatives, neighbours and even tenants were grilled.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Uppal police have also collected blood samples of a woman who had reported her baby missing at   a few months ago for DNA analysis. 
 
 After the severed head was found on the terrace of cab driver Rajasekhar’s house on February 1, a day after the lunar eclipse, police suspected the involvement of people practising black magic. As a sniffer dog deployed by the police went to the puja room of a neighbour’s house, police grilled the family, but they did not get any evidence. They also grilled relatives of Rajasekhar from Jagityal.
 
 Subsequently, police questioned the cab driver himself as he was out driving the cab on that night and one of his cell phones was found switched off for a few hours. They also questioned a baba from the Old City as Rajasekhar’s wife was suffering from a chronic illness and the family was in consultation with him. There too, the cops found no leads.
 
 Police also hurled an object, equal in weight and similar in shape as the baby’s head, on the terrace of Rajasekhar’s house to figure out if someone had indeed tossed it. However, it rolled for a considerable distance after landing on the rooftop. 
 
 When cops checked the terrace on February 1 with gadgets to check for body fluids, it appeared as if the head was placed there and not hurled, which would leave a trail of fluids. 
 
 Meanwhile, Cyberabad police were trying to retrieve CCTV footage from the recorder of an   restaurant at Gachibowli where the eight-month pregnant woman spent some time on January 29 afternoon, a few hours before her chopped body was found abandoned on the road near Botanical Gardens at Kondapur. Cops also questioned owners of a few cars found in the CCTV footage, but they were found to be innocent.
 
