MUMBAI: Latest findings on the   blaze may shift the course of the police investigation, which began with filing of FIRs on charges ranging from culpable homicide not amounting to murder to flouting of land use norms.

 The first of the FIRs was against 1Above’s owners Kripesh and Jigar Sanghavi, and Abhijeet Mankar, partners in a hospitality venture, Sigrid Ospitalita. They face criminal action under IPC. Mojo’s owners are likely to face the same charges. 
 
 Currently, the only FIR against one of the owners of Mojo’s, Yug Tuli, is for a civil case under Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act for land use violations. Mojo’s is owned by four partners in Tirupati Restaurants and Café Pvt Ltd: Yug Tuli, Yug Pathak, son of ex- Pune police commissioner K K Pathak, Pritina Shreshtha and Soumil Shringarpure. 
 
 
  
  
 
 In the wake of the tragedy, 1Above’s owners had issued statements saying the blaze erupted at Mojo’s and sent letters to the PM and CM seeking their intervention. The fire department had then not ruled out the possibility that the blaze may have spread from Mojo’s into  . 
 
 The fire report, accessed by TOI, says most eyewitnesses said hookahs were prepared and served at Mojo’s at the time of the incident at a spot not far from where curtains/decorative material caught fire. Coal cubes, hookahs, a pedestal fan, and a coal stove was found at the spot. 
 
 In its assessment, the fire brigade has said “the probable supposed cause” was the removal of lighted charcoal from the sigree and its transfer into a hookah or fanning of charcoal which caused “flying embers” to come in contact with curtains. Due to winds on the open terrace, the fire spread rapidly. Afire official said, “As both eateries had a common rooftop, fire spread towards 1Above. 
 
 The roof was made of inflammable material and molten plastic started falling from the top.” When questioned why guests at 1Above died while those at Mojo’s were able to escape, he said, “Guests at Mojo’s were the first to notice the fire and immediately ran towards the escape. By the time those at 1Above noticed the blaze, it had spread all over. The loud music in the premises made it difficult for those at 1Above to hear the screams of people,” he said. 
 
 “More than 200-300 people” were present inside the two eateries at the time of the incident, he added. Reacting to the report, a police officer said it would not influence the case of culpable homicide against 1Above’s owners, but they would now book partners of Mojo’s as well.
 
  
  
 
 (Inputs from S Ahmed Ali)
 
 
