NEW DELHI: The ban on demonstrations at Jantar Mantar is having unforeseen consequences with protesters choosing their favourite spots at random. For the second time in a month, office-goers on   found their access into the side lane, where many offices are located, blocked by a huge posse of policemen and protesters on Thursday morning.

 A group of women, holding placards, was squatting at the entry to the road and the cops had barricaded the place, denying entry to hundreds of people heading for work. They were all brusquely asked to come from the other side on a one-way street without any cops being present at the other end to streamline the traffic or even ensure that the entry was wide enough for two vehicles to pass. This led to complete chaos for the next three hours.
 
 It is a mystery why these demonstrators had not been stopped well ahead of the entry to the street or asked to hold their sit-in at the MCD park. The police seemed to have little concern for the office-goers who were shooed away sternly.
 
 These people ran into a bunch of autowallahs at the other end. They have turned the stretch near the ITO Metro station into a parking lot. Asked to move, they began to  . Those who managed to squeeze through came face to face with traffic from the other side, a nightmarish situation because of the cars parked on the road. Tempers were frayed and there were many exchanges of cuss words. “My car got scraped in the melee,” said Gaurav Chatterjee.
 
 Ritu Devi, spokesperson of  , which had organised the demonstration, said they had been holding it every year at Jantar Mantar but this time they had to look for an alternative. “We did not seek permission to hold our protest since there were only a handful of people. We were denied permission to go inside the park since it requires prior intimation,” said Devi.
 
 Police officers said they cannot remove protesters unless they turn violent. “The civic body has disallowed protests inside Shaheedi Park since people trample on the grass,” said a senior officer.
 
 What remains a mystery is that why this small group was allowed to come right up to the entry to the lane when it could have been confined to a space away from that point. That would have saved hundreds of people hours of harassment.
 
 
