JAIPUR: Driving through   remains a   for many. The   and the lack of space for pedestrians make it an excruciating experience.

 The area around   has been given a face lift to promote night tourism. However, nothing much has been done so far to improve traffic-related problems that plague the crossroad here.
 
 As soon as the traffic light turns red, one can see cars moving bumper-tobumper, creating traffic snarls. Ajeet Patidar, a taxi driver, said that for a long time the subway for pedestrians has been lying defunct as there was little awareness about it.
 
 “The subway is of no use to anybody. Only a few people know that it exists here,” he said. Niharika Verma, who works at a local shop, said that she doesn’t feel safe taking the subway. “The subway is not managed properly. One can see drunkards and drug addicts squatting there. I don’t feel much secure there,” she said.
 
 Similarly, a bus top near this junction has also given cops sleepless nights. “Buses are a real menace here. They don’t have much regard for safety and drive at high speeds, causing traffic jams and accidents,” said a policeman.
 
 Despite the fact that the city traffic police headquarters is located in this area, bikes and car are parked here haphazardly. There are several mechanic shops which also block the traffic. “There is a fuelling station, and adjacent to this is a lane with several repair shops. Bikes and cars can be seen parked haphazardly which adds to the  ,” a police official said.
 
 Meanwhile, local shopkeepers said that the entry of cars and heavy vehicles should be regularised on this road.
 
 “My car often gets stuck between two buses at the red signal, leaving little space for me to manoeuvre. As soon as the lights turn green, chaos prevails with each bus trying to outrun the other,” said Sandeep Barwal, a marketing executive.
 
 Police officials said that they have already put several policemen here to regulate the traffic. “The space here is congested. Hence, traffic snarls have become frequent. We have put barricades here to stop unruly drivers,” an official informed TOI.
 
 “There is no alternative way. The situation gets particularly serious during morning and evening hours. Sometimes, the traffic spills over to MI Road,” said Ranjit, a tea vendor here.
 
 
