HYDERABAD: A party based out of Tolichowki in Hyderabad is eyeing to capture power in Karnataka which is going to polls this month. While incumbent Congress is trying to retain power, BJP and Janata Dal (Secular) are going all-out to make a comeback, the   (AIMEP) has also caught the attention of the electorate. 

 The party, led by Nowhera Shaik, who hails from Tirupati in Andhra Pradesh, is contesting 221 of the 225 seats in the Karnataka assembly and has diamond as its symbol.
 
 Interestingly, NowheraShaikForCM trended on Twitter on Tuesday taking everyone by surprise. Shaik posted a photograph of her with actor Salman Khan's brothers -   and  , with the party's publicity material in their hands. "Star campaign starts," she said posting the picture.
 
 The 44-year-old Nowhera Shaik said if time demanded, she would also vie to become Prime Minister. "Anything for my country. Jai Hind," she said in response to her trending on Twitter, acknowledging that she had seen the campaign done by MEP supporters on the microblogging site.According to records with the Election Commission, AIMEP is one of the 2,044 registered unrecognised parties in the country. The address of the party has been given as D.No. - 9-4-135/35/A, 9-4-135/35, Plot No. - 35, Survey Nos. 206, 207, 210, 199, 198, 195/2, Aruna Colony, Tolichowki, Hyderabad. In the campaign material, a Kukatpally address has been given as head office of the party unit in Telangana.
 
 Shaik's Heera group of companies has its India head office at Masab Tank. It also has branches in Saudi Arabia and Canada. She is also described as founder and president of Jamia Niswan As-Salafia, Tirupati, India. When she was 19, she set up a school in Tirupati to provide education for Muslim girls. Born in a business family, Shaik set up her own business in 1998 with gold trading. In November last year, the CEO and MD of Heera group had announced her foray into politics and said her party would contest the Karnataka polls. Shaik was in the news a couple of years ago when she lodged a complaint with Golconda police against her husband Salman for cheating her of 10kg gold. He later said he was her ex-husband and there was also a dispute about their daughter. MIM leader Asaduddin Owaisi had also lodged a complaint with the CCS police alleging that her company had cheated investors.
 
 
