
 MUMBAI: The race to the playoffs in the 11th edition of the   has gathered steam and given their precarious positions on the eight-team table, both   and   had very little room for error when they clashed at the   on a sultry Sunday evening.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 And at the end of the day, it was the Royals who were left fancying their chances of progressing further, with a seven-wicket victory while the defending champions were staring at bleak times ahead, with only a couple of league games remaining.
 
 Royals skipper Ajinkya Rahane and  , who has struck up ominous form, provided thrust to RR’s innings after the fall of D’Arcy Short in the first over. The duo put on 95 runs for the second wicket, before Rahane fell for 37 off 36 balls. They paced their innings magnificently, helping RR reach 83/1 at the end of 10 overs. Buttler, who struck an unbeaten 95 in the previous game, reached his fifty by smashing Hardik Pandya for a boundary through covers on the last ball of the 12th over. He was not daunted by Rahane’s fall in the 14th over and kept clobbering Mumbai bowlers all around the park.
 
 Royals required 55 off the last six overs and there was little to worry about as Buttler continued with his aggressive streak. He finished with an unbeaten 94 off 53 balls and his knock was laced with nine boundaries and five sixes. Sanju Samson, who joined Buttler at Rahane’s fall, hit 26 off 14 balls.
 
 Earlier, Rahane had no hesitation in asking the hosts to take the first strike after winning the toss and MI responded with 168/6. Openers Suryakumar Yadav and   were beneficiaries of a couple of reprieves very early in the essay and the duo made the most of the opportunities, putting on 87 for the first wicket. Yadav was the first to depart for 38 while Lewis was out for 60.
 
 Mumbai looked on course for a huge total at the conclusion of 10 overs, having reached 86 with all 10 wickets intact. But the visitors were suddenly back in the contest, getting rid of Yadav and skipper Rohit Sharma off successive deliveries in the 11th over. After young paceman   had Yadav caught by Jaydev Unadkat at long leg, the stadium was stunned into silence when Rohit departed off the very next delivery, when his attempt to pull Archer landed in Unadkat’s hand. Archer was the top pick among the RR bowlers, returning with figures of 4-0-16-2.
 
 The job of resurrecting the innings was left to the duo of Lewis and wicketkeeper Ishan Kishan thereafter, but they could not provide the much-needed push.
 
 Paceman Dhawal Kulkarni got rid of Lewis while Kishan could not repeat the exploits he produced against Kolkata in the previous encounter and fell for 12.
 
 Things seemed to be getting worse for Mumbai when allrounder Krunal Pandya departed with the side’s score on 131 with only 3.1 overs to go.
 
 
