JAIPUR: Aiming to prevent sex selection tests by curbing sale of unregistered   machines in the state, the health department has made it compulsory for   to get registered under the pre-conception pre-natal diagnostic technique (PCPNDT) Act. Earlier, registration was mandatory only for sonography centres. So far, 19 sonography manufacturers and dealers have got registered, a   cell official said.

 
 The move of making the registration of dealers and manufacturers mandatory was taken to curb illegal sale of sonography machines. “We have found illegal sonography machines used in sex selection tests during decoy operations. Now, making registration compulsory for dealers and manufacturers will prevent sale of unregistered machines,” the official said. 
 
 With new directions regarding registration, manufacturers and dealers will have to inform the PCPNDT cell about each sonography machine sold along with the name of the sonography centre, which purchased the machine. If the health department found any unregistered sonography machines of a registered manufacturer or dealer, action will be taken against the dealer and manufacturer.
 
 According to the health department’s figures, there are 2,968 sonography centres in the state, out of those, 1672 are functional. Besides, the officials claimed that active trackers have been installed in all the machines in the registered sonography centres across the state to monitor the activities done on the machine. 
 
 The child sex ratio (CSR, 0-6 years) in the state has declined from 909 to 888 in the past 10 years (census 2001 and Census 2011 shows), which is a major concern for the health authorities. However, the health department claimed that sex ratio at birth ( ) has improved significantly in the state over the past few years. Health authorities claimed that it has increased from 938 in 2016-17 to 950 in 2017-18. 
 
 The health department officials claimed that decoy operations along with efforts taken under   has improved SRB in the state.
 
