If there’s one nation that comes close to challenging the achievements of Brazil in World Cup, it’s  . They are one short of Brazil’s record of five and when the Germans head to Russia this time, they will look to challenge another Selecao record — a successful defence of the World Cup in the post-war era The fact that the Germans have the ammunition to do so is an achievement in itself and it has a lot to do with their manager  . The 58-year-old is a legend in German football now, but 12 years back when he took over as the coach, the first reaction of Die Mannschaft fans across the world was ‘Loew who?’ They can’t be blamed. 

 
 
 For a period of more than 20 years, fans of Germany had gotten used to names like Franz Beckenbauer, Berti Vogts, Rudi Voeller and Klinsmann as managers who are legends in German football. In comparison, Loew hardly had any stature either as a player or a coach, his only credentials at that stage being that he was Klinsmann’s friend and assistant. The two had met long back at a coaching school and both shared a philosophy of playing the beautiful game. When Klinsmann took charge of the German team after a disastrous Euro 2004, he brought in an out-of-job Loew into his team as assistant.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The ‘new Germany’ was still in its formative years when Klinsmann left after the 2006 World Cup to take up the US job, but he knew his team was in the safe hands of Loew. But what exactly is new Germany?
 
 For that we have to peep into the history of Germany during the turn of the millennium. The country was trying to embrace a fresh multicultural identity and with its new relaxed immigration policies a lot of Turkish, Polish and African origin players began coming in. Suddenly the Germans had flair and the Klinsmann- Loew combo looked to cash in on that. They planned to change the old stoic German style of clinical mechanical football with extreme importance on long balls. They strove to make Germany play the short-passing game — though a little more direct than Spain’s famed tiki-taka which had started making waves around the world.
 
 A remodelled easy-on-the-eye, free flowing German machine kept coming close between 2008-12 under Loew with a clutch of creative players like Phillip Lahm, Mesut Ozil, Sami Khedira, Marco Reus, Thomas Mueller, Toni Kroos and Manuel Neur coming in, but a beautiful, powerful Spain stood in their way. But as the golden Spanish generation hit the downward slope, Loew’s moment came and they became the world champions in 2014.
 
 But even as Loew finally had his day under the sun, many saw a Catalan shadow behind his success — Pep Guardiola. The Spaniard had taken charge of the Bayern Munich a year back and the team was beautifully adopting itself to Pep’s style. Typically, the German team that went for the World Cup had at least six Bayern players in the first XI, giving it the look and feel of the unstoppable club side. If that wasn’t enough, the way Germany tore apart Brazil 7-1 with some intricate passing game outside the box had clear flashes of tiki-taka in it. Loew, too, probably agrees to Pep’s influence on his 2014 side and that’s why he said of the Spaniard’s stint and influence at Bayern: “He has what not many have: Creativity, speed, guts and imagination. We are very happy to have him around.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 But when Loew takes his side to Russia this time around he will still feel indebted to Guardiola, now the Manchester City manager, for presenting him with his finest weapon — Leroy Sane. The City winger is bound to add an extra dimension to a German side that has a few players who are probably past their prime.
 
 The fact that the Bundesliga over the past few years has become a virtual one-horse race hasn’t helped Loew’s cause. The lack of competition on the home front is hurting Bayern Munich in Europe while Borussia Dortmund is no longer the force that it used to be. It means the German team — unlike 2014 — might lack a bit of the sting.
 
 There is no one better than Loew who understands these and the tactician that he is, looks to work around the problems. He has vigorously promoted youth and his second-string won the Confed Cup last year, but Germany’s biggest rivals were not there. Yes, Loew has the able Ter-Stegen replacing the injured Manuel Neuer in goal, but Germany’s worry in recent times has been scoring goals in crunch games. Going back to Euro 2016, the Germans struggled to find the net. Now, with Miroslav Klose retired, Mario Gotze dropped and Mario Gomez not of the same class, Klose will have to bank on young Timo Werner to play the striker’s role.
 
 Of course, he will be buoyed by the return of Marco Reus and still has the likes of Joshua Kimmich, Sane and Thomas Mueller who will create and score and there shouldn’t be too many hiccups in making the quarterfinals, but Loew knows that’s just the base camp. For the ambitious Germans, anything short of scaling Mount Everest is failure!
 
 
