KOLKATA: Two intrepid Kolkata women in their 20s are driving through an unusual glass ceiling, opting to ply auto-rickshaws in a city where their colleagues are known to be violent and boorish — with both passengers and traffic sergeants — and where some of them have been in police lock-ups for molesting women passengers.

 Meet  , a 27-year-old B A Part-II dropout, and Mousumi Sardar, who stopped studying after reaching Class IX. Sadhukhan, armed with a learner’s licence, now ferries passengers on the   route, becoming the first Kolkata woman to drive a three-wheeler. Sardar, seven years her junior, applied for a licence on Monday, hoping to be the second woman to do so. Between them, the two want to be the change that Kolkata’s auto passengers are looking for.
 
 
  
 
 “When women can climb mountains and go to space, why can’t they drive auto-rickshaws? They can do it better,” Sadhukhan told TOI on Monday. Passengers — both women and men — say they feel a lot safer travelling with her. “Not all auto drivers are bad but some men have tarnished the profession. I am here to restore our reputation. People love to sit in my auto. Women are particularly comfortable,” she said.
 
 The   resident had tried several jobs — from a back-office executive to a saleswoman — before deciding to try the auto-rickshaw. She learned driving from an uncle and now, besides doing that for a major part of the day, also works as a newspaper vendor in the morning and a private tutor in the afternoon.
 
 “My parents were initially sceptical about the reaction of others at my incursion into a male domain. But most men have behaved themselves and have even been supportive,” Sadhukhan, who applied for a three-wheeler licence last November, said.
 
 
 
 Twenty-year-old Sardar, who applied for driver’s licence one on Monday, had to quit studies to support her family of three once her father deserted them.
 
 After working as a domestic help, a vegetable seller, a cleaner and an auto mechanic, she is now trying her hand at driving an autorickshaw.
 
 “I learned how to repair autos and then drive them while working as a cleaner. I have applied for a licence and wish to be a driver on the Golpark-Garia route soon,” Sardar, who got married to a cycle mechanic last month and is now training her husband to be an auto mechanic, said.
 
  resident Shatabdi Chakraborty gives a thumbs-up to Sadhukhan and Sardar and says more women auto drivers are needed on Kolkata’s streets to make the men at the wheel behave.
 
 “This was needed for long. We are tired of being bullied by unruly male auto drivers. It is much more comfortable riding with a woman. The government should promote more women in this profession,” she said.
 
 South Kolkata District Auto Drivers’ and Auto Operators’ Union general secretary Gopal Sutar says his organisation has been encouraging the gender benders. “We have trained 60 women. Sadhukhan and Sardar are among them. I expect others to follow soon,” he said.
 
