THANE: Every day, since January 1, groups of green warriors reach mangrove stretches along the shores of Mumbai and Navi Mumbai and start picking up waste materials that have been choking the area. Just when they think they have cleared a patch, the high tides wash ashore more plastics, thermocol, glass and nirmalya dumped in the water bodies elsewhere. 

 And then, the groups get back to achieve what they want: garbage-free mangroves and clear shores. Since the New Year, the State Mangrove Cell’s cleanup campaign has removed more than 400 tonnes of plastic, nirmalya, thermocol, debris and other waste from eight stretches—Dahisar, Bandra, Versova, Gorai, Sewri, Airoli, Turbhe (  stretch) and Bhandup—thanks to an army of young volunteers, including college students, and labourers. 
 
 But officials say it’s just the beginning as these zones are still nowhere close to the pristine green cover the drive aims to achieve. 
 
  
 
 The coastline has been defaced with filth over the years because of direct dumping of debris and garbage by locals in mangroves and the indirect dumping of waste in drainages and creeks by slum dwellers, which get collected in the mangrove roots during high tides. 
 
 Besides ruining the green zones, this waste has also increased the pollution levels and destroyed the bio-diversity of the stretches. 
 
 “We have been talking about projects such as mangrove parks and tours, but without a clean mangrove belt and a thriving bio-diversity in it, these projects would be futile. We realised it was high time to start cleaning our coastlines. We began with weekend clean-up drives with the help of NGOs and collegians in the most polluted mangrove stretches of Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai,” said N Vasudevan, chief conservator of forests of the state mangrove cell. 
 
 Initially, the campaign was limited to weekend clean-up drives, but later the department changed it to an everyday challenge and started hiring labourers for the work. “We needed to work fast to handle the waste collected around these mangrove roots. 
 
 As many Mumbai labourers didn’t want to step into the marshlands, we even hired around 85 labourers from Nashik, Jahwar and other inte rior pockets. We have allocated Rs 50 lakh to provide them with basic requirements like gloves and temporary housing,” Vasudevan added. 
 
 The collected materials are transported away by vans of the Mumbai and Navi Mumbai civic bodies. Mangrove cell officials are toying with the the idea of tying nets at the mouth of the smaller creeklets to reduce the inflow of waste reaching the mangroves from drainages. “While the work is conducted during low tides, high tides wash ashore a lot of new waste. In addition to time, clearing this mess will require sensitization of the ills of dumping waste in water bodies and drains. Involving citizens will hopefully bring about a change,” said Nandkumar Pawar, a Mumbai based environmental activist. 
 
 “This is a a much-needed initiative, but the mangrove cell should also focus on removing encroachments and preventing dumping of construction debris, as they not only pollute the green belt, but estroy it,” Pawar added.
 
