Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this column. 

 
 It was so silly to even hear these jealous barbs. A close friend of a fading yesteryear actress was seen socialising with a bunch of men at a popular nightspot. When on the topic of young women and their bodies, she made some unpleasant remarks about Trisha’s svelte figure. The same stout aunty is often seen liking Trisha’s posts on   and praising her sky-high. Trisha’s rigorous routine is out there for everyone to see on   and she sure doesn’t need approval from an out-of-shape mouthy aunty. 
  
  
 
 This LIVE-obsessed makeup artiste in the city, who has a very affable personality, it seems is going overboard with her Facebook Live ‘reporting’. On one particular day, she uploaded nearly 12 videos, we are told. From flaunting her beautiful friends to conveying life’s lessons in broken English, this new-kid-on-the-block has got the city’s circles walking away at events, in case she suddenly decides to beam live.
  
  
 
 This syrupy sweet culinary queen seems to be hitting the highs of bitterness! Her Women’s Day post was homophobic and sexist. The whole city knows about her secret rendezvous and high-profile boyfriend, and the episode where they were caught at it at an exclusive club. While he is in the dock, now she seems to be at her bitter best. On Women’s Day, is that all she could share? 
  
  
 
 This popular hotelier, who is lauded for his personality and extroverted lifestyle, is also seen cosying up to his wife, flaunting her at events and even making much of their ‘happy marriage’. But sources close to him let it slip that he is also an amazing boyfriend to a half-his-age Bengali beauty, who works in one of his outstation hotels. The man, it seems, makes it a point to bring her gifts, wines and dines her in that city and even has some cute selfies with his ‘baby’. It all works out perfectly as she is his employee who knows his marital status and is not in the same city!
 
 
 It seems  , wife of top director  , never repeats her clothes, even if it was worn to a friend’s home function. Pampered yet grounded, this lady, we hear, shops at boutiques across India, and never even repeats her blouses. Some of her friends were wondering how she can afford a new wardrobe every season. The secret is, she is well-invested and despite being a woman of leisure, her rentals from various properties pour in. And her husband is also doing very well. 
  
  
 
 The wife of a top music director, who shot to fame in 2012, we hear, hasn’t paid her designer `96,000 for the last six months. Known for his melodies and his excellent piano skills, this much-liked musician, who gave a ‘funeral’ singer a life-changing opportunity, should perhaps tell his missus to pay up.
 
 
 This rich wife of a successful businessman, who’s into financing, was overheard using the choicest abuses over the phone. This lady ‘K’, who is usually known to be soft-spoken and reclusive, was at her fiercest best at a hotel lobby. She was seen hurling abuses galore. Those who overheard her were sure it was about her daughter-in-law. 
  
  
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
  
 
 
