KOCHI: Two fire safety personnel were injured while trying to contain a liquid   leak at Willingdon Island on Saturday afternoon.

 Panic gripped the city around 1pm as the control valve of a bullet tanker truck carrying ammonia burst open while the chemical was being transferred from a storage facility of the Fertilizers and   (FACT) Ltd at Willingdon Island to the bullet tanker.
 
 Students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Port Trust Cochin, situated near the factory, were evacuated from the spot immediately. Apart from minor eye irritation and breathing difficulties, students did not experience much discomfort. Three students felt uncomfortable after the leak and had to be given first aid. Traffic to the Island was blocked soon after the leak.
 
 “We were at physics lab when the pungent smell came. Students were immediately taken to the north side where the wind was not blowing towards the school. The students were later taken to homes in school buses,” said Asha J P, a physics teacher of KV.
 
 The bullet capsule had a capacity of 15 tonnes and the valve on top of the cylinder broke open when the capsule was almost full. Two FACT employees had breathing difficulties, and were given medical assistance.
 
 “Since an attempt to plug the leak failed, we managed to drain ammonia out by dissolving it in water in a controlled environment by pumping water from four sides,” said Taji Joseph, a fire safety officer.
 
 Two fire safety personnel   (28) and Ratheesh (37) who were in chemical protective suits, were injured when they tried to contain the leak. The plan was to plug the opening of the control valve by climbing on top of the capsule. However, the ammonia mixed with water on top of the capsule had made the surface slippery.
 
 “The suit of Saithu Nandan got torn and the liquid ammonia, which is less than -33 degree celsius in temperature, fell on him due to heavy pressure in which the liquid was coming out. Saithu suffered severe cold burn injuries on his shoulder and an arm. Ratheesh also suffered minor burn injuries,” said an official with the Kochi Refinery. The victims were rushed to a nearby hospital.
 
 “Fourteen people experienced breathing difficulties following the leak. Of these, nine are from fire force, FACT, CISF, BPCL and   who were trying to contain the leak. Three were students of KV and two were students from a nursing school nearby,” said an official statement by   district medical officer.
 
 “Saithu suffered 2% burns and is recuperating at a private hospital. Injuries of others are not serious,” said an official.
 
  (26), a CISF guard is under observation after he reported health issues.
 
 The city witnessed heavy traffic in the afternoon as vehicles rushed towards the city from the Willingdon Island side after the news of ammonia leak spread. Traffic police had to struggle to let ambulances and fire engines through the route amid the panic.
 
 
