MUMBAI: In a first, five rivers in the city and two lakes are set to get flow level transmitters, which will remotely send the civic administration an early warning on days the level of water starts rising, especially after heavy rain. 

  
  
 The seven long-arm devices, one for each of the seven water bodies, will work on solar power and are expected to cost Rs 70 lakh each. The BMC’s storm water drain (SWD) department is keen to instal these transmitters before the arrival of rains in June. 
 
 These transmitters will have a sensor, a transmitting system using SIM cards and GPS (global positioning system) and will send a message to the city’s disaster control unit as water level begins to rise, indicating location. 
 
 “Currently, there is a flow level transmitter in Mithi river but our staff has to physically go and check the level of the water during heavy rains. With the new transmitters, it would be much easier as the message would be sent to the department concerned which can direct the administrative wards to take action,” said V Khankar, chief engineer of SWD department. 
 
 One of the major reasons for getting the transmitters was the need for an early warning so that low-lying areas near the river in spate can be evacuated before any mishap. 
 
 “On heavy rain days during the monsoons, it is very important to evacuate those living around the rivers on time as any delay can lead to loss of life and property. The transmitters can give a live status of the rising level and we can start acting immediately,” said an official. 
 
 The officials had initially settled on the five rivers, but added the two lakes because their overflow goes into the Mithi. Shiv Sena corporator Tejasvee Abhishek Ghosalkar, whose ward has the Dahisar flowing through, appreciated such preventive measures but wanted more effort to rehabilitate those living around water bodies. 
 
 Kalina corporator Tulip Miranda, whose ward has both the Mithi and Vakola running through, felt such preventive action would encourage encroachers. “Today all the rivers are surrounded with illegal encroachments. In some cases, it is so bad that the encroachers have filled in the rivers and are staying on it. Making arrangements to evacuate such people would only encouraged them further.”
 
