KOLKATA: This year’s top 10 WBJEE candidates came from 10 different schools, seven from Kolkata.

 
 On the merit list,   was joined by Hariyana Vidya Mandir, DPS Ruby Park, St Thomas’ Boys’ School, Apeejay School, Sri Sri Academy, Adamas International School (Kolkata),   (Durgapur) and two others in Ranchi and Visakhapatnam.
 
 The spread of schools on the toppers’ list augurs well for Kolkata, says   principal  . “Till now, most teachers preferred to join established schools only. Now, even the new ones are attracting a good faculty,” he said reasoning how so many schools found themselves in the merit list. “The facilities that are required for cracking the   are available mainly in the cities. Most schools now prefer to opt for   or CBSE. Hence, several schools from cities are gaining momentum in the entrance exams. The curriculum of ISC and CBSE are mostly targeted for competitive exam. That’s why they succeed,” he added.
 
 The   principal Seema Sapru provides another interesting insight. “My recent interactions with students have made me realise that they no longer aspire to take up engineering or medicine only. It is also an apt tribute to new age parenting that they are increasingly encouraging their children to opt for new careers instead of the archetypal exams which parents earlier aspired for their children,” she says. “Now the students who are opting out of the engineering and medical entrance tests are also very bright and talented. For instance, if a school has 10 students who can figure in the JEE merit list based on their academic excellence, only a few will appear for the exam. A few years ago, all 10 would have appeared for JEE. And hence, the dip in numbers.”
 
 A senior teacher provided another reason. “Parents, I have noticed, are prioritising several factors now. For example, the commute time to school. They would want their children to travel less and focus on studies more. They are ready to admit their kids in a school near home and give them additional tutorial help in studies. The idea is to allow them more free time to study,” she said.
 
