Give up something you love this   season’ — this is something most Christians grow up listening to and practicing. But this Lent, some Christians have decided to tweak that norm just a wee bit and it’s making a world of a difference. Here’s how: “Instead of giving up something for yourself, why not give something to someone who needs it?,” asks  . It’s precisely this thought that led the Hyderabadi to kickstart the campaign   in the run up to   this year.
The campaign, which she started on Ash Wednesday, which marked the beginning of Lent, involves doing one kind act that makes a difference to someone, clicking a picture and tweeting it with the hashtag, to create a “chain of kindness”. “I started it because February 14 had such a beautiful coincidence as it was the start of Lent season and Valentine’s Day, both of which speak about selfless love. so I just did one act of kindness, shared it on my personal profiles and tagged people inviting them do something similar,” says Sunitha who started this chain on both Twitter and Facebook. She managed to rope in at least 50 of her friends, to join the campaign, and they in turn, invited their friends. And it’s caught on like wildfire!
 
 
 So, what was the very first act that started it all? Sunitha recounts stepping out on the hot Valentine’s afternoon when she saw a sight she would have otherwise missed. “I had gone for a meeting at Secunderabad and saw a young man on the footpath, lying all alone, in the scorching heat. I knew it right then that however awkward it may feel at first, I had to make that move and do my first act of kindness. So I picked up a rose and some chocolates and gave it to him,” recounts Sunitha.
 What ensued, she says changed her perspective on love. “His name was Ajay, and he was thrilled to know that a day like Valentine’s was celebrated. He was even more thrilled that I walked up to him to share the love,” says Sunitha, adding, “He looked at me and said, ‘Duniya mein abhi bhi pyaar baaki hai...’ at that moment, I knew it that I had to do this everyday and spread the message of love.” 
 
 
 As it turns out, every little act of kindness didn’t just change someone’s day for the better, but also changed perspectives on a lot of things including, what ‘charity’ or ‘kindness’ means. One campaigner, an engineering professional who requested anonymity, says, “It’s easy to throw money for charity and assume you have done your bit for the society. But ever since this challenge began we realised it’s about the effort you make, the time you spend with them that the poor or needy 
 actually care about. Not all need money or food or blankets. some just need a human touch, someone to talk to, the feeling that someone acknowledged their existence.” 
 The best part, according to those who took part, is that their vow to do one kind act each day has opened their eyes to things they’d not give a second thought to otherwise. It’s left them feeling so much more human, they confess.  , who posted pictures of a very happy nine-year-old clutching some goodies, says, “After the campaign began, it occurred to me that kindness begins from people around us and is not necessarily about giving things to those we consider less fortunate. The one who caught my attention happened to be 9-year-old Prashanth, who delivers milk to my house on days whenever his mother’s workload is a lot. So this time, I invited the little one in and shared some cookies and milk with him. The smile on his face made my day worth it. Sometimes a kind act can make someone’s whole day better.”
 There are dozens of stories like this one. And the take back for every do-gooder seems to be the same — it’s our endemic lack of empathy that makes the world seem so cold. And all it takes to change that is one little act that makes a difference to one person around you. So while some did it over Osmania biscuits and irani chai coupled with a conversation with someone who has no one to talk to, others found that a warm meal of fried rice or samosa, or a special gift of chocolate for someone who doesn’t get it often does more than just fill a hungry belly.
 
 
 Sunitha admits that initially it was a challenge to walk up to a person you don’t know and do something you have never done. Some people living on the streets may also be reluctant to talk or share, as they just expect alms and no personal interaction, she realised. For others, time was a challenge. “I realised, it’s not the money or the effort, it’s time that was the factor. I don’t get time until 9:30pm. But making the effort for someone whom I don’t expect anything back from is what make the challenge soul enriching,” says an engineering professional.
 But over the past 34 days these Hyderabadis have won more than just hearts of those they helped. On March 12, Sunitha spotted a middle-aged man at the Hakimpet Bus Depot, who expressed his desire to be rehabilitated. She tweeted to various organisations, and soon help arrived. Now, the man who a destitute has a place he call home. All this thanks to one random act of kindness.
 
