NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday termed as "absolutely illegal" any attack by   panchayats or associations against an adult man and woman opting for inter-caste marriage.

 
 The top court added if the government does not enact a law to protect couples opting for inter-caste marriage, the court will evolve a principle and lay down guidelines.
 
 "Adults can get into marriages of their choice and no panchayat, khap, individual, society can question them," the   said.
 
 A CJI Dipak Misra-led bench said that no khap or panchayat can summon such couples and encourage institutionalised atrocities against them.
 
 Amicus Raju Ramachandran said the   had recommended enacting a law to protect couples opting for inter-caste marriages, but the government is "lethargically" taking views of the state governments.
 
 The bench told the Centre that it will not give its views on the suggestion given by amicus curiae, assisting the court in the matter, and the court would contemplate passing an order based on the amicus' suggestion.
 
 "Whenever there is any kind of collective attack on a boy or girl who are adult, it is absolutely illegal," the bench said and listed the matter for February 5 for further hearing.
 
 The apex court had earlier sought suggestions from an NGO 'Shakti Vahini', amicus curiae and 'Khap Panchayats' on the issue.
 
 Khaps are caste or community organisations in villages which at times act as quasi-judicial bodies and pronounce harsh punishments based on regressive and age-old customs and traditions.
 
 The NGO had moved the top court in 2010 seeking directions to the central and state governments to prevent and control honour crimes by taking a number of measures.
 
 Earlier, the apex court had invited 'Khap Panchayats' to hear their views before issuing any order to stop them from harassing and killing couples and women in the name of honour.
 
 The Centre had pleaded with the apex court to put in place a mechanism to monitor crimes against women by Khap Panchayats, as the police was not able to protect women facing ordeal at their hands.
 
 The top court had also said that as a pilot project, it would examine the situation in three districts of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh where Khap Panchayats were active.
 
 It had summoned the superintendents of police of Rohtak and Jind districts of Haryana and that of Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh to apprise the court of the situation there. 
 
 (With inputs from PTI)
 
