Former President Pranab Mukherjee’s acceptance of an invitation to speak at   headquarters on June 7 at Nagpur has created a buzz in the media, especially social media. Some of the free-thinkers and self-proclaimed secularists are agitated by it.

 
 There is a concerted attempt to dissuade him from setting his foot in the RSS headquarters. They persuasively pressurised him against addressing the Sangh Siksha Varg. He was advised to toe a typical Congressman’s line.
 
 Pranab Da, as he is popularly referred to, in the past has seldom found himself at the receiving end of unsolicited advice. Being a veritable warehouse of practical solutions in an impractical political coalition, he was the prime trouble shooter for the Congress-led UPA government, which had a knack of crawling from one political crisis to another during 2004-2014.
 
 Those who have the audacity to advice whether he should speak at RSS HQ and what he should speak, are seriously undermining the sharp faculties of one of the most astute, learned and wily politicians whose grey cells have gained synergy through trials and tribulations of a rapidly changing   landscape in the country.
 
 The ‘self-appointed’ Twitter-happy advisers, who rightly and repeatedly lay stress on heterogeneity of India’s cultural diversity and inter-linked freedom of speech and expression, want the ex-President to maintain homogeneity of a Congressman’s characteristic hatred for RSS.
 
 By repeatedly attempting to dissuade Pranab Da from having any kind of association with RSS, these self-appointed advisers are seriously violating the former President’s fundamental rights — one, to make choices, an important and intrinsic part of right to privacy and right to life; and second, freedom of speech and expression.
 
 Some of these ‘advisers’, belonging to that particular section of intelligentsia, think their views alone are correct and plausible. They want others to either praise or maximise circulation of their views through blogs, retweets and likes. This narcissist approach often makes them seethe with anger and quickly hit final limit of flimsy tolerance level when anyone disagrees or, worse, criticises their views.
 
 They waste no time to brand their critics as those who are attempting to tear down the country’s basic fabric. If the critic is popular in social media, then the self-proclaimed ‘secularists’ and ‘pluralists’ unleash a full-fledged campaign to damn him/her. For them right to free speech is a one-way traffic, as with the rabid right wingers who go to any extent to silence a voice of opposition.
 
 Coming back to Pranab Da’s decision to address a gathering at RSS headquarters, isn’t it purely a matter of personal choice? No one, not even the highest authority in the government, can take that away from him. What he speaks there, would surely be amenable to analysis followed by criticism or praise.
 
 The ‘advisers’ could have waited till June 7 before opening their mouths on the former President’s choice of venue for delivering a lecture. But, we do recognise that the ‘advisers’ too have the right to free speech and expression to be critical of anything under the sun.
 
 These educated and well informed ‘advisers’, sensitive towards health of citizens’ fundamental rights, must read the August 24, 2017 judgment in   case (Aadhaar-privacy) by a nine-judge bench of the  , which bestowed cardinal importance to citizen’s right to make choices.
 
 The SC had said: “Privacy enables each individual to take crucial decisions which find expression in human personality. It enables individuals to preserve beliefs, thoughts, expressions, ideas, ideologies, preferences and choices against societal demand for homogeneity. Privacy is an intrinsic recognition of heterogeneity, of the right of the individual to be different and to stand against the tide of conformity in creating a zone of solitude.”
 
 Being in the thick of coalition politics for nearly a quarter century, Pranab Da had emerged as an intelligent and tactical politician before taking retirement from active politics to become the first citizen of the country. Leisurely work schedule of a President must have given him enough time to reflect back, critically analyse and learn from steps and decisions he took in his active politician days.
 
 The solitude of life, as a retired President, can make an active mind either ill or wiser. But a voracious reader in Pranab Da, would have sharpened his political mind and taken it to the philosophical level.
 
 In Puttaswamy case, the SC had turned philosophical when it said: “Privacy represents the core of the human personality and recognises the ability of each individual to make choices and to take decisions governing matters intimate and personal.”
 
 “Yet, it is necessary to acknowledge that individuals live in communities and work in communities. Their personalities affect and, in turn are shaped by their social environment. The individual is not a hermit. The lives of individuals are as much a social phenomenon. In their interactions with others, individuals are constantly engaged in behavioural patterns and in relationships impacting on the rest of society.
 
 Equally, the life of the individual is being consistently shaped by cultural and social values imbibed from living in the community. This state of flux which represents a constant evolution of individual personhood in the relationship with the rest of society provides the rationale for reserving to the individual a zone of repose.”
 
 What the SC said in the concluding part of the judgement would make the ‘advisers’ wiser — “Personal choices governing a way of life are intrinsic to privacy. Privacy protects heterogeneity and recognises the plurality and diversity of our culture.” Let the ex-President be free to make his choice and exercise right to free speech. What he speaks at RSS can always be subjected to critical analysis.
 
 
