Festivals are almost like homecoming; they take you back to your roots, tradition and memories. And Mumbai is a city that opens its arms to people from all over the country.Today, on Assamese, Bengali, Odiya and Malayali New Year, BT speaks to four young women from these communities, who live far away from home, yet have kept their culture and tradition alive. Read on…

  
 
 
  Tanvi Nair might have lived in Mumbai for a very long time, but her heart lies in her homeland, Kerala. It is this constant pining to go back to where she belongs, that makes her celebrate   and other festivals with fervour. “My family has taught me how important such festivals are, to remain connected to our roots. It’s not the distance, but the feeling of oneness that matters. The day begins by looking at the Vishukani, where auspicious things — a vessel containing fruits, rice, a mirror, gold and cash — are arranged.” 
 
  “It’s symbolic of prosperity and happiness. This is followed by a grand sadya (traditional feast) with near and dear ones in the afternoon. Another popular tradition is Vishu Kaineettam — elders giving money as a token of love and blessing to the younger ones. The festival serves as an opportunity for family members staying across the city to come together and recreate a mini version of what it would be like in Kerala. Our elders have invested their time and effort in passing down to us the significance of being connected to our homeland, and it applies to life as a whole. It is our responsibility to be more aware of our roots and pass on the same learnings to future generations,” explains Tanvi Nair, the young dancer and PR professional.
 
  
 
 
  Sutapa Singha from Kolkata shifted base to Mumbai a couple of years ago, after marriage. “There is something about Mumbai... every festival here is celebrated with gusto,” says the writer by profession. Sutapa feels that   is all about bonding with her loved ones. “It’s mostly about families. And new clothes, of course. I spend the day with my husband and try to meet up with other Bengali friends living in the city. We sing together and enjoy khaati Bangali adda over cups of tea. And, there’s always a couple of new outfits in our wardrobe.” Ask her how she stays connected to her roots and Sutapa explains, “Food is a big connector. One or the other Bong friends is sure to make some pithe puli on this day. And if a Bong has her favourite foods in front of her, it doesn’t matter if she is in Kolkata or Mumbai. Of course, I miss my parents and my sister. And my mom’s special paatishapta with chocolate filling. But, that’s alright because I make up for it during the Puja holidays.”
 
  
 
 
  For actress Plabita Borthakur, Bihu is all about donning the traditional attire. Back home in Duliajan (in the Dibrugarh district of Assam), Plabita would go berserk dancing to Bihu tunes with troops that would drop by for a quick performance. “I love wearing mekhela sador (traditional Assamese attire), I wear it sometimes anyway. I make sure I wear one on   and listen to a couple of Bihu songs to get the feel of the festival. And I definitely cheat on my diet on this day. I used to love applying jetuka (mehendi) and dancing with the different husori (is a group of people dressed in traditional attire, touring people’s homes — singing, dancing and wishing them well for the year ahead) teams that would come over.”
 
  
 
 
  Just like any other ambitious person, Debdutta Mohanty moved out of her Rourkela home 10 years ago. Although a decade has passed by, but for her,  , even to this day, is about making the cooling drink this festival is named after. “It’s been a long time I have been away from Odisha. Back home, we used to visit Shiv and Hanuman temples. In Mumbai, we go to the ISKCON temple and enjoy traditional food. The festival has derived its name from a cooling drink call pana, made out of bela (wood apple), grated coconut, chhenna (grated paneer) and jaggery. Other than that, we prepare rice, khichdi, dalma (lentils mixed with different vegetables) and mixed vegetable (called ghanta in Odiya),” says Debdutta, a freelance journalist, matter-of-factly.
 
