PANAJI: There will not be cheer for this move if you are among those who booze and drive and have a penchant for speed. The state government has cleared the traffic police proposal to procure 100 alcometers and fours laser speed radar guns to crackdown on drunken   and overspeeding.

 Every 30 hours, a person is killed in a road accident due to rash and negligent driving either by the person killed in the road accident or a mistake of the opposite vehicle. This year till date, around 700 persons have been challaned for drunken driving.
 
 During the last couple of months, the government has focused on reducing drunken driving on the roads. Chief minister   has even said that bar owners should keep watch on his customers so that they do not drive the vehicle after drinking. 
 
 At present, Goa traffic cell has around 23 alcometers which are in working condition. The new alcometers which would be procured soon will be distributed among the 14 traffic police cells and police stations in the state.
 
 Last year, around 4,000 cases of drunken driving were booked across the state.
 
 Speaking to TOI, SP (traffic) Dinraj Govekar said the government has given permission to procure   meters. DySP D G P Angle told TOI the rise is drunken driving cases this year is a result of the efforts of the cell to crackdown against drunken driving.
 
 Angle said this year they have got additional staff and the cell has pushed for strict enforcement to curb drunken driving. “We have also had special drive against drunken driving,” he said.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that there were some alcometers that were not in working condition and were hampering enforcement. Angle said the department has to send the electronic devices to Bengaluru for calibration every six months, only after that we know whether it has stopped working properly.
 
 Angle said the four laser speed guns can be put to use immediately as they start working once they are mounted on a tripod. He also said during the last four years, they have not challaned anyone for overspeeding as both the interceptors were out of service. The state government has procured two interceptors to check overspeeding.
 
 
