CHENNAI: There are many infrastructure projects in Chennai which lie on paper or remain unfinished due to lack of  . However, here is one project where the Greater Chennai   (GCC) had deposited Rs 2.9 crore to the Southern Railways three years ago, written three reminders as late as January this year, and yet, there is little progress.

 What’s more, red-tape in executing the project is putting school-going children in Alandur at the risk of being crushed by speeding trains. The project pertains to the construction of a bridge at level-crossing 15 near the AJS Nidhi school in Alandur. And the 10-metre crossover after school, is like a walk across the valley of death for the students. This span connects Alandur with the densely populated Adambakkam.
 
  say they are forced to dangerously cross the tracks as the other way is a 2-km round-about. “Our principal has asked us not to cross the track,” one kid said. Residents added that the other way out is to take a sub-way, where the road traffic is heavy.
 
 After representations from the public, there were plans to construct a subway to help solve the issue. Later due to disagreements over feasibility, it was decided to construct a   (RoB). However, about a year ago, that proposal too was dropped due to non-feasibility.
 
 GCC has written to the Chennai divisional railway manager (DRM) that an alternate proposal of a steel foot-over-bridge, as requested by the welfare associations and public, can be considered. In the third reminder sent on January 30, they have also asked Railways to work out the General Arrangement Drawing (GAD) and estimate cost at the earliest. “The expenditure can be adjusted against the payment made and the remaining amount can be refunded,” the letter stated.
 
 Officials in Chennai division say that work is in progress. “Just last week, the GAD was approved and there is some movement on the work due to the pressure given by local resident welfare association,” said an official.
 
 Augustine David, the federation of Adambakkam Welfare association said that they had persistently followed up with the GCC and railway officials to get the work started. The federation had also conducted a token protest in 2017 to highlight the delays. 
 
 
