CHENNAI: The integrated   track may be taking shape on paper but its effectiveness on the ground is being doubted. A lack of a proper design of the shared cycle track and absence of public involvement in the Rs 36 lakh Non-Motorized Transport initiative, expected to roll out next month under the   project, may not help to promote cyclin, say experts.

 Though the work is in progress and the corporation plans to add more signage, the green thermo plastic paint along   and near Island Grounds is how the cycling track marking will look. But in a city where an exclusive elevated cycle track has failed to take off and vehicles hog all the space, including pavements, will such markers make space for pedal pushers? Transport experts say disjointed markings for a cycling track may not work and a continuous green marking, would have at least have ensured visibility. 
 
  
  
 
 "For road transport projects, there should be a demo involving citizens on a few roads. After which people should be made aware of the project and then it should be enforced. Public cooperation is a must while implementing such projects," said N S Srinivasan of Transport Advisory Forum. Instead of taking haphazard steps towards building a cycle track on roads with chaotic traffic, it is essential to have proper planning, implementation, education of residents, execution, and enforcement, he added. "We are yet to learn to give priority to pedestrians, cyclists, buses and individual vehicles, in that order," he added.
 
 In cities abroad, such as Bonn, at traffic signals, cycles stand in the space between the stop line and the pedestrian crossing, so that they can move first when the signal turns green. "Such coordination is needed among the commuters. For a cycle track to be successful, it is essential for the government, urban planners, traffic police, and public to work together," Srinivasan added.
 
 Advait Jani of Institute for Transportation and Development Policy said, "As far as the design is concerned, there should be a buffer space and level difference between the cycle track and carriageway. Else, motorised vehicles will encroach on the track. This situation is common to all Indian cities where cycling lanes have been marked by paint. The main reason why NMT infrastructure is encroached by vehicles is because of the lack of respect towards pedestrians and cyclists. This can only be resolved by sustained awareness campaigns by the corporation and strong enforcement by traffic police."
 
 A senior official from the   said the agency plans to work with cycling clubs and public. "The work has just started. There will be changes and we plan to promote the project among the public so people can utilise it well," the official said.
 
 
