Rajkot: Shri Rajput Karni Sena on Tuesday sent out a stern warning to movie buffs in Gujarat stating that they will not allow anyone to watch Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Padmaavat’ in cinema halls and multiplexes.

 “If you are so keen to watch the movie, watch it on the internet after 10 days of release. But we won’t allow you to watch it in cinema halls,” Lokendra Kalvi, president of Karni Sena, said in the city. 
 
 Addressing media persons, Kalvi said their outfit has announced a ‘janta curfew’ on January 25 when Padmaavat will be released, adding, “Bhansali will be responsible for whatever happens before Republic Day.”
 
 Even as Bhansali has clarified that there was no love-making scene between Alauddhin Khilji and Padmaavati even in a dream sequence, Kalvi maintained there was such a scene which has not been deleted.
 
 He also claimed that he never accepted Bhansali’s invitation to watch the movie before its release and said that such information was spread to misguide people. Karni Sena has made representations to chief ministers of 17 states, as well as the Prime Minister and BJP national president Amit Shah. 
 
 The widespread vandalism by Rajputs seem to have united other communities who have declared support to the protesters. On Tuesday, Khodaldham Temple Trust, the most influential Leuva Patidar body along with Muslims, Bohras and even Sikhs joined the fight to ban the movie’s release. All community leaders held a joint press conference and demanded to stop the movie’s release. Khodaldham trust — the apex religious body of Leuva Patidars — also joined the protest. Its president Paresh Gajera was present at the press conference. Kashmira Nathvani, a BJP leader in Rajkot and leader of Raghuvanshi community, also joined hands.
 
 They organized a joint press conference to demand that the movie Padmaavat must not be released in Gujarat. 
 
 President of Padmaavat Sangharsh Samiti, Narendrasinh Jadhav, said, “This not an issue concerning the Rajput community alone. Rather, it is the issue of India’s history and culture. Today, all community leaders have joined hands with us and gave the message that they won’t allow anybody to manipulate history. Bhansali has manipulated the facts only for profiteering.”
 
 Gajera said, “We support the Rajputs and Patidars too demand a ban on the movie’s release. This was a platform to unite all communities and it is tradition in Rajkot that one community support others.”
 
 Sikh leader Jaljitsinh Dhhilon said, “If whatever Rajputs are saying is true and their feelings are hurt, we are with them.”
 
 Dawoodi Bohra leader Yusuf Makda said, “Today, they have made a film which hurts Rajput’s feelings. Tomorrow, it can be happen with us also. This is the reason we are opposing its release. There are many subjects to make movies but why manipulate history.”
 
 
