CHENNAI: Commuters heading out of Alandur metro transit hub will soon be able to walk across a foot overbridge and hop on to a local or outstation bus waiting a few metres away.   ( ) is planning to build an intermodal urban square under the cloverleaf loops of   with several facilities, including bus stops and a parking lot. As a first step towards setting up a multi-modal urban transport facility, metro rail has invited tenders from consultants who can provide detailed design and construct the square. 

 Officials said the urban square, planned at a cost of 14 crore near Alandur metro, will be similar to - if not as big as - the   planned above   underground station. 
 
 Among many facilities expected to come up in the 54,400sqm space under the Kathipara interchange, the square will have a bus terminal, where MTC and outstation buses can halt to pick and drop off passengers. There will be amenities for passengers like waiting area, ATMs, parking lot and footpath. The square is likely to be linked to the metro station with footpath and a foot overbridge.
 
 According to the tender invite, the contractor is expected to design and construct the facility within a year while also managing the quality and safety of Kathipara. Commuters can alight from a bus or park vehicle at the Kathipara flyover and walk a few metres into the Alandur metro station to hop on to a metro train. For MTC buses, the square will provide a turn facility where those that end their trip at the Guindy Industrial Estate or those heading towards CMBT can turn, pick or drop off passengers. The square is also expected to provide last mile connectivity, as it will link areas up to a radius of 500 metres around the metro station through local buses. Officials say they will work with several departments, including the highways, Chennai corporation, CMDA, traffic police and the MTC, to set up the square. 
 
 At present, there are MTC bus stops in front of the metro station and commuters risk their lives while crossing the busy GST road. The pedestrian subway is far away from the station and is not well maintained.
 
 
