BATHINDA: Jaito station house officer (SHO)   has been shifted to Police Lines and a departmental inquiry marked against him. The action came in the wake of Punjab DGP Suresh Arora’s visit to Faridkot on Wednesday.

 He directed the district police to take action in the case of shoddy handling of the students’ duel, where   Baljinder Singh Sandhu ended his life. Action against the SHO was taken following a complaint filed against him on January 12, in which he was accused of assaulting three students at the Jaito bus stand.
 
 
 After this, students, under the banner of Inquilabi Vidyarthi Manch, staged a protest at Punjabi University Regional Centre on January 29.
 
 
 The DSP, who came to mediate between two groups of warring students, killed himself with his service revolver. Two students, Gurbir Kaur of Longowal in   and Sumanpreet Kaur of Hamidi village in  , were admitted to the Faridkot medical college with injuries. They alleged that they were assaulted by the police party led by   Gurmeet Singh.
 
 
 Sumanpreet Kaur, a student of Class XII at SD Collegiate School, Barnala, said, “We are members of the Inquilabi Vidyarathi Manch and had gone to Jaito on January 29 to take part in the protest against the assault on three students by SHO Gurmeet Singh on January 12. After the DSP killed himself, a few persons close to SHO Gurmeet Singh picked me and Gurbir Kaur, who is pursuing BA II at Guru Gobind Singh College, Sanghera near Barnala. They beat us up and handed us over to SHO Gurmeet Singh, who also thrashed us and took us to the police station, where women constables thrashed us. Police asked us why we came from Banala and Sangrur area to Jaito. We were released on January 30 evening .”
 
 
 Faidkot SSP Nanak Singh said police is looking into the case. “The SHO has already been shifted to Police Lines and if charges of students being beaten up are proved, strict action will be taken against him,” he said. Gurmeet was not available for comments.
 
 
 Inquilabi Vidyarathi Manch activists had assembled at Punjabi University’s regional centre at Jaito on January 29 to protest against an incident of January 12 wherein the Jaito SHO had allegedly picked up two boys and a girl student from the bus stand and thrashed them alleging that they were creating nuisance.
 
 
 The students wanted action against the SHO and when their pleas before the DSP to make SHO Gurmeet Singh tender an apology for his behaviour failed, they gave call for protest on January 28. During the protest when Gurjinder of Inquilabi Vidyarathi Manch was addressing protesters, opposite group of students started objecting to it resulting in an ugly situation on campus. In the commotion, someone heard DSP Baljinder Sandhu saying, “Should I shoot me?”. The SHO accused protesters of instigating the DSP to fire at him. Sumanpreet and Gurbir said they had to face police high-handedness after the DSP’s death.
 
