NAGPUR: Four years after he taught the basics of basketball to the city kids, Scott Flemming kept his promise and returned to the heart of India.

 
 In his second visit to Nagpur, the experienced American coach conducted a series of training sessions for the trainers and also introduced National Basketball Association ( ) to the school students of the city.
 
 The former national coach - who led the Indian men’s team to a historic win over China in 2014 - is also keeping a track on the performance of Nagpur players, whom he taught in the same year. During the senior national basketball championship in Chennai and in the state meet at Mumbai, Scott had recently seen the performance of city’s best two forwards Mugdha Amraotkar and  , and was elated to see them making impact on the senior team. Mugdha was the top performer for Maharashtra during the senior nationals, while Shreya impressed with her skills in Mumbai.
 
 “It is great to see some of these young players now making an impact in the senior team,” Flemming told TOI about the initiative of NBA and the American’s love for the city.
 
 The 59-year-old - who was appointed as the Head of Basketball Operations,   - brought the skills challenge to the city where around 903 students from over 50 schools participated. It’s a grass-root initiative conducted as a part of the Reliance Foundation Jr NBA program.
 
 “Nagpur is one of the best basketball cities in India. I really enjoyed my time here in 2014 when I conducted some basketball camps,” he said.
 
 Scott also told about NBA’s future plans for the city. “The NBA wants to build on what is presently being done and assist with the continued growth of basketball in Nagpur.”
 
 “Our RF Jr NBA Coaches Academies are designed to prepare school teachers to instruct basic basketball skills to their students. The strength of this program is introducing basketball to their students at an early age,” Scott said while giving information on the ‘Train the Trainers’ initiative that NBA started in the country and Scott himself conducted in the city.
 
 “It is important that our young boys and girls develop love for the game as early as 8 or 9 years old. Our NBA programs will give them this opportunity,” he added.
 
 Scott said popularity of the sport is expected to translate into popularity for the league. “Players like   (the first Indian to be drafted by the NBA) and Amjyot Singh (recently drafted by OKC Blue, the Oklahoma City Thunder’s G-League affiliate team) serve as role models to those aspiring to reach the top. However, the on-ground activities and the digital engagement draw a larger fan base among the youth.”
 
