HYDERABAD: Stating that the two Congress MLAs —   and SA   — obstructed the proceedings of the Assembly on March 12 repeatedly and threw earphones five times towards governor ESL Narasimhan when he was addressing the House, senior counsel   on Friday told the Hyderabad High Court that expulsion of the members was essential to protect the dignity of the House.

 “We are connected to the dignity and decorum of the House because we are part of it,” he said, arguing the case of 12 TRS MLAs who urged the court to set aside the single judge order and restore the expulsions of the unruly members.
 
 The Bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice K  , however, intervened and observed that probably the House would have decided to award a lesser punishment, had it heard the two MLAs before expelling them. “If their replies are satisfactory, probably the House would have thought that the idea of extreme punishment was unwarranted,” the Bench said. “Can you condemn a person without a trial?” the Bench sought to know. Vaidyanathan replied saying that the MLAs can seek a fresh mandate from the people who may re-elect them if they are not already feeling disgusted about the kind of behaviour their legislators had displayed in the House.
 
 To a question whether Sampath too had thrown earphones, Vaidyanathan replied that Komatireddy threw it thrice while Sampath did the same twice. “They did not dispute it. They wanted to show that these earphones did not hit  , legislative council chairman,” the senior counsel said, adding that there was no need to prove an incident that happened in front of everyone.
 
 Counsel for the expelled members Ravi Shankar Jandhyala told the court that some of the 12 TRS legislators who are now seeking action against his clients are actually MLAs who got elected from other parties but later switched loyalties and joined TRS without relinquishing their legislator posts. The Bench, however, said that was a subject matter of a different litigation, currently pending elsewhere.
 
 “You concentrate on the subject on hand and tell us how they are not entitled to question the decision of the single judge,” the Bench asked Jandhyala, who replied that the Assembly secretary, Speaker and the state were made parties before the single judge and any appeal over his decision should be filed by these three only and not others. Though the counsel for the TRS MLAs sought a stay on the single judge order, the Bench said it will not give any interim order without hearing all the parties and posted the case to Monday.
 
