Even as the two-way traffic through   along   resumed on Thursday noon, the repaired road continues to be a headache for motorists due to the steep variations in its level. The road had partially caved in on April 19, after concrete pillars of an adjacent under-construction building collapsed.

 
 
  
 
 While the road around   pillars remained intact, rest of the road partially caved in, following the collapse of the concrete structure.Vehicles passing through the route are swaying, slowing down traffic as the road is significantly uneven. Pedestrians are having a tough time as there is no footpath on the side being repaired and many are resorting to jaywalking.
 
 However, motorists said that they are involuntarily becoming careful due to uneven roads. “It is a tough task to steer through congested roads,especially when it is uneven. Also, earthmovers are right nexttotheculvert making it difficult to drive through,” said  , a taxi driver.
 
 However, a PWD official said that the Kaloor stretch of Banerjee Road was perfectly safe to travel. “We will soon relay the tiles paved on the road. Tiles would be removed and landfilling would be done to level the road. We are awaiting KWA’s nod to start works as they have some pending work,” said the official.
 
  officials said on Saturdaythatwater pipeline atKaloor hadbeen repaired andwater supply to areasin and aroundKaloor was restored.A major water leak had happened after the pipeline along the culvert near   hotel was damaged just before the concrete pillars collapsed.
 
 But,officials maintainedthat though they have fixed the damage, there is some more work that needs to be done. The construction activity has stalled the work. “We have some work right in front of the building which lies next to the collapsed structure. However, earthmovers are continuously working there to avoid further soil erosion. We will complete it soon as more areas are still facing water shortage,” said the official.
 
 The textile firm has started sheet piling works and a wall-like structure has been erected 5m away from the road. The area in between is now getting filled with sand and crushed rock.
 
 Meanwhile, residents and shopkeepers in the area have started adjusting to the change in routine. “As the water supply was blocked, we had to fill our tank using water supplied in trucks by a private party. Since, works are going on, there are lesser pedestrians in the area and there is a dip in the number of customers,” said Biju, a shopkeeper who runs a tea stall close to the spot.
 
 He added that his building seemed to be safe. “Other than the building next to where the piling was going on, there seems to be no visible damage to any other building. We are all scared,” he added.
 
