HYDERABAD: In a major development, police have secured scientific evidence that the infant, whose severed head was found on the terrace of a house at Chilka Nagar in Uppal day after the lunar eclpise, may have been killed at the house of cab driver Rajashekar. However, they are yet to identify the killer and ascertain the identity of the five-month-old.

 The killing of the infant took place on the lunar eclipse day, the night of blood and blue moon, on January 31, triggering a suspicion that it might be a case of human sacrifice.
 
 Telangana Forensic Science Laboratory on Wednesday submitted a report to the  , stating the DNA fingerprinting analysis found that the DNA extracted from the severed head of the baby matched with that of the blood stain found in the room of house owner-cum-cab driver Rajashekar. In simple words, the FSL report concludes the child was killed at the house.
 
 The probe takes a new turn as the suspect has so far been feigning ignorance about the child and had been telling cops that unidentified persons might have placed the severed head on the terrace.
  
  
 “The blood stain was collected from the crevices of the floor by the CLUES team. A sample from the severed head and small blood stain left over on the floor were sent to FSL. The two samples matched. This shows that the infant may have been killed in the room of the owner, who is a cab driver,” a  , who is part of the investigation team, told TOI.
 
 The severed head was discovered on February 1 when Balalakshmi,  , went to the terrace to dry clothes. Blood samples collected from a beggar couple, who claimed that the infant was their daughter, didn’t match with the DNA of the severed head .
 
 The official said, “We also found blood being wiped out signs in the room of Rajashekar. On the terrace, we found certain material like bamboo, vermilion (kumkum) and thread. Usually, those who perform kshudra puja (black magic) will tell the person not to reveal about the ritual. They brainwash saying that if he reveals, the human sacrifice will go waste. As per kshudra puja, the severed head has to be kept for a day.”
 
 Though police have evidence that the infant was killed at the  , several questions remain unanswered in the incident, including the identity of the victim.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police,   told TOI, “We are still investigating the case, and we are hopeful of cracking it soon. We have no confirmation of human sacrifice. The killer and the victim are yet to be identified. So far, we haven’t found other parts of the body.”
 
