Heritage monuments of the state have weathered natural calamities and time to stand tall and testify the architectural dexterity of the ancient Tamils. But, a move by the Centre to permit infrastructure projects within the ‘prohibited’ area around monuments, jeopardising their safety, has drawn flak from conservationists.

 On January 2 this year, the Lok Sabha passed the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment) Bill, 2017 to allow the Centre to facilitate public works, projects essential to the public or any construction within the prohibited 100m radius of centrally notified archaeological sites. The   Bill awaits the Rajya Sabha’s nod. It will alter the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act,  , which was amended in 2010 to prohibit construction within the prohibited area of a centrally protected monument and site. 
 
 Archaeological experts say drilling and use of heavy machinery around monuments threaten to cause irreparable damage to their aesthetics. Alterations were made to the alignment of the Delhi Metro to preserve the aesthetics of historical monuments in the national capital. Chennai, however, has had a bitter experience with the ongoing metro rail project that caused damage to some heritage structures including the Dr Ambedkar Government Law College in the Madras high court complex and Victoria Public Hall.
 
 Sharmila Ganesan, co-convenor of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), TN chapter says the amendment is not in the right direction as the country has important monuments when compared to the rest of the world. "Other countries have heritage structures that are hardly 100 to 150 years old and take measures to protect them. India has monuments that could be traced back to more than 1,000 years, but we adopt a casual attitude towards their protection," she said. 
 
 In an attempt to preserve and protect the 3,600 odd monuments and sites maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) across the country, the Centre through the 2010 amendment had banned all types of construction within 100m of the notified sites. Tamil Nadu, which houses 410 of these sites, also boasts of two world heritage sites at Mamallapuram and Thanjavur.
 
 Haji Syed Jamal Hasan, former ASI director (exploration and excavation), says constructions could be allowed around the monuments categorised as grade ‘C’, but not in the vicinity of world heritage sites and ticketed monuments. "Of the 3,600 ASI monuments, around 2,000 including megalithic sites, cemeteries and minor inscriptions are grade ‘C’ or less important historical monuments and sites. There should be no constructions within the 100m of the rest of the monuments because it would have an adverse impact on their structures," he said.
 
 Archaeologists say the dilution of the act would help vested interests. "It would certainly benefit realtors. A (housing) layout could be carved out by the housing board in the prohibited area under the garb of public purpose. The move would liquidate the act, eroding the powers vested in the act in 2010," said P D Balaji, head of department of ancient history and archaeology, University of Madras. 
 
 Some question the disparity over relaxing the norms for Central government projects, while ignoring the grievances of common man residing around the ASI sites, who is forced to run from pillar to post to get approvals for alterations to his building.
 
 C Santhalingam, archaeologist and secretary of Madurai-based Pandya Nadu Centre for Historical Research, says, that the act does not give any relief to the common man. "For instance, Nayak Mahal in Srivilliputhar at Virudhunagar district was declared an ASI site 10 years ago. Now people residing near the structure cannot even whitewash their houses without getting approval from the ASI. I would have welcomed the amendment had it addressed the issues of such people," he said. 
 
 Union culture ministry officials were not available for comments when TOI tried to contact them.
 
 
