MUMBAI/ KOCHI/THRISSUR:   returned to Mumbai with his family after a wedding and get-together with his kin in Bengaluru barely two weeks ago. On Saturday noon, his wife called his relatives in Kothamangalam with a message that the helicopter taken by Antony and his colleagues was reported missing.

 They scanned news channels and found that Antony was among the seven who perished in the helicopter crash in Mumbai. The ONGC employee, who has been living in Mumbai for 12 years, is survived by his wife Rani and daughters Reshmitha and Rimitha. A friend said that the family was informed about the crash around 12 noon. The bodies were yet to be identified.
 
 “My brother and his family arrived at our ancestral home on December 28 and we travelled together to Bengaluru. Later, they left for Mumbai, promising to celebrate Easter in Ernakulam this April. He called me two days ago and we had a long chat on family matters,” said his brother Paul Antony.
 
 Jose, the fourth son of PV Antony and Pennamma, completed his engineering from Kothamangalam and joined ONGC as junior engineer in Assam and later moved to Andhra Pradesh. “He worked in an oil rig before being promoted as deputy general manager two years ago,” Paul said.
 
 Another victim P N Sreenivasan, who settled in Bandra, was due to retire next year. Sreenivasan, who owns an apartment in Thrissur Sobha City, is the son of Narayanan Ezhuthachan. He is survived by wife  , son Arjun Kiran and daughter Iswarya .
 
 The entire family, including his father, lives in Bandra said his brother-in-law Rajendran, who works with the revenue department in Thrissur. He came to know about the mishap from TOI and could not control his emotion. The DGM (operations), was in Thrissur to attend the wedding of his niece in October. “He was planning to return in the next couple of days. We received no communication from ONGC and I have seen only media reports. It is not clear whether his body has been found. I don’t know why ONGC was silent,” he said.
 
 Another victim VK  , who hails from Chenathunadu near Chalakudy, settled in Mumbai with his wife Dr Shiny two decades ago. Babu left   after his parents Kuttappan and Narayaniamma died. He acquired his degree in Marine Engineering from Dhanbad. Babu has a daughter Vibisha, a Plus Two student and ason Susant, a ClassIII student.
 
 The ONGC colony at   was abuzz as friends, relatives and ONGC employees assembled to pay their respect. An ONGC employee said the DGMs were in office till 7pm on Friday and the Saturday meet was just routine.
 
 
