MUMBAI: Maharashtra roads have 743 black spots, or accident prone zones, and witnessed more than 12,000 fatalities last year. It is learnt that 52 of these black spots are in Mumbai, with most of them in the suburbs.

 
 Launching the state-wide Road Safety Fortnight on Monday, chief minister Devendra   the government has adopted a three-pronged strategy—Enforcement, Education and Engineering (roads) —to curb accidents. “We have been successful to some extent in the past one year which saw a 10% dip in the number of accidents,” he said. “This is mainly due to road safety campaign being carried out not just during a fortnight, but 365 days of the year. In Mumbai, the echallan system introduced by traffic police also helped a lot in curbing mishaps and disciplining motorists,” he said, adding that there are over 700 black spots across the state.
 
 
 
  
 
 
  secretary Manoj Saunik later told TOI that the exact number of black spots in the state was 743. According to the data provided by the state government, 35,853 accidents (serious offence) were reported in 2017, as against 39,848 the year before—a drop of 10%. The number of fatalities also dipped from 12,883 in 2016 to 12,264 in 2017.
 
 The CM expressed concerns over the increasing vehicular population, specially two-wheelers, in Mumbai and appealed to citizens to wear seatbelts and helmets for safety. In Mumbai, there are nearly 1,000 bikes per km of road.
 
 Fadnavis said there was an urgent need to create awareness among motorists on ‘No Honking’ to reduce sound pollution. He stated that use of technology will help prevent accidents on the   and also on the   super communication highway in future.
 
 Transport minister Diwakar Raote said the Rs 161 crore collected as Road Safety Fund will be utilised for accident prevention measures. “We have created vehicle inspection facilities /brake test tracks at 35 RTOs and will introduce the same in 15 other RTOs soon to ensure that only road worthy vehicles are plying across state,” he said.
 
 Joint police commissioner (traffic)   said there would be more speed cameras, CCTVs for e-challans and breath analysers to reduce mishaps on Mumbai roads. “We also plan integrated traffic management system with signals being controlled by sensors and based on density of traffic to avoid congestion,” he added.
 
