KOLKATA: In yet another disappointing show the   returned with two medals — a silver and bronze in compound team events — in the second stage of the   in Antalya, Turkey, on Saturday.

 
 This is one better than the single bronze medal that the squad won in WC Stage I in Shanghai.
 
 The recurve archers continued their dismal performance failing to win a single medal. Their only medal hope ended up in smoke as the recurve women’s team of Deepika Kumari, Promila Daimary and Ankita Bhagat went down to Chinese Taipei’s Lei Chien-Ying, Peng Chia-Mao and Tan Ya Ting 2-6 in a bronze medal playoff match on Saturday. The trio previously lost to Korea 2-6 in the semifinals.
 
 In women’s recurve individual categories, Olympians Deepika and L Bombayla Devi were ousted in the quarterfinals. While the former, who defeated teammate Promila Daimary 7-3 in the fourth round, was thrashed by Japan’s Gyeong Lee Eun 1-7, the Manipur archer lost to Lei Chien-Ying of Chinese Taipei 4-6.
 
  was the best Indian men’s recurve archer as he lost to Mete Gazoz of Turkey 4-6 in the third round.
 
 The strong recurve mixed team of Deepika and Atanu were eliminated in the quarterfinals going down to Japan’s Tomomi Sugimoto and Takaharu Furukawa via tie-breaker 4-5. The women’s compound team of Divya Dhayal, Muskan Kirar and   fetched India’s first medal after going past Italy (227, 27-227, 26) South Africa (234-230) and Turkey (233-224) to set up a summit clash with Chinese Taipei where they lost 228-231.
 
 The compound mixed team of Abhishek Verma and Jyothi Surekha, who won a bronze in Shanghai, repeated the feat when they got the better of their Belgium rivals 158-155 in the bronze medal play-off match on Friday. Verma, however, narrowly missed a semifinal berth going down to Iran’s Nima Mahboubi 146-147 in the quarters of the individual event. The Indian challenge in women’s individual category came to end when Jyothi Surekha lost to Chen Yi-Hsuan on the basis of nearer to bulls eye score after the duo was tied 144 after five ends.
 
 But the men’s trio of Abhishek, Rajat Chauhan and Sangampreet Singh Bisla could not make the medal rounds after they lost 234-238 to Korea in the quarters.
 
 In the men’s recurve team event, the men’s trio of Das, Sukhchain Singh and Jagdish Choudhary was ousted in the first round itself as they fell to their Belarus opponents 4-5.
 
