RAIPUR: In yet more child molestation horror from  's hinterland, a headmaster was arrested in   district on Tuesday for sexually exploiting schoolgirls. Five women teachers have been suspended for allegedly defending him and forcing the girls to keep mum. 

 It's only due to the girl's courage that headmaster Ajesh   and the others face justice. Rebuffed at every step - even called liars out to sully the headmaster's name - they persisted and finally approached Collector  .
 
 The collector immediately ordered an inquiry and took down the statements of 23 schoolgirls who were molested. The school management committee had earlier dismissed their complaint for fear that the girls would get a "bad name" if word got out.
 
 All the girls are from Class VI-VIII. They have told the collector and police that headmaster Shukla would deliberately embarrass them by saying obscene things and fondle them while teaching. This turned into a daily torment for the children for 2-3 months, they say.
 
 Some of them mustered courage and approached women teachers of the school, but their response was equally shocking. Instead of supporting the children and raising the alarm, the teachers - Shitla Bandhe, Veena Ramteke, Baby Sontapar, Durga Hirwani and   - allegedly asked the girls to keep quiet and never inform anyone else, the complaint says.
 
 Meanwhile, Shukla allegedly continued to molest the children. The girls then took the matter to school management committee, which comprises parents, teachers, the sarpanch and other representatives. At a meeting on April 4, the committee members feared that the matter "may get worse" and "ruin the girls' and families' reputation", so they closed the issue, saying that the girls were lying.
 
 The committee concluded that the complaint was false and made with an intention to malign Shukla's image.
 
 When the girls said that Shukla would grope them in the guise of explaining 'magnetism', some members of the committee allegedly supported him, asking the girls how else was he supposed to explain the term.
 
 The girls refused to give up. They approached the collector, Bheem Singh, who was horrified and immediately ordered a probe by the subdivisional magistrate.
 
 Singh told TOI: "It was serious matter, involving a large number of minor girls. The SDM was asked to inquire into the complaint and record the statement of girls. The allegations were found to be true. At least 10-15 girls narrated their ordeal and said how Shukla would touch them inappropriately and slip his hand inside their shirts. Immediately, an FIR was lodged under POCSO Act."
 
 The five women teachers who told the girls to keep mum were suspended, Singh added. Members of the school management committee are also under the scanner and if anyone, including the sarpanch, is found to have suppressed the complaint, they too will be booked under POCSO, said an official.
 
 Shukla had allegedly forced one of the schoolgirls to work as a domestic help at his home and was molesting her too, said an official. TNN
 
 
