CHANDIGARH: The power and creative spirit of   artists not only reaches out to society at large but assumes catalytic roles in ushering a civilised and progressive nation. A glimpse into the self-conscious persona of an urbane lady clicking her selfie or an emancipated lady of the metropolises recoiling in horror at restrictions still in place on her close relatives dwelling in rural areas manifests in the aesthetic spirit taking flight.

 At the ongoing All India Women Artists' Contemporary Exhibition, a thoughtful medley of 120 art works are on display at the Galleries of Fine Arts Museum,  , Art Curator Dr  , took note of the evolving trajectory of women's contemporary art by stating: “Critical engagements with identity, sexuality, politics of the sub-continent emerged as new themes moving ahead from the socio-religious themes which were dominant earlier...now it is up to emerging younger artists to take on the onus of creating new languages of artistic expression.”
 
 The creative gesture serves, according to Prof  , the “critical function of self-reflection — to ask ourselves — where are we going? or where is this world going?" A work of etching (64cm x 50cm) depicts a woman taking a selfie and stared at by a salivating dog. This is Chandigarh-based artist  's take on an emergent cultural trend that can mutate to a 'portable manic mirror'. But for Satwinder, the selfie-taking woman reflects an aura of self-confidence and knowledge and she revels in modernity's empowerment. "Apart from reflecting the selfie-clicking woman's acute self-consciousness, I depicted a dog, symbolic of society's greed, lust and desire for the woman's body,” Kaur, a MA in Fine Arts from Shantiniketan, told TOI.
 
 Penciling the contemporary richness of art works at the exhibition, Dr  , chairperson, department of art history and visual arts, PU, stated that women artists “dwell more extensively on new trends rather than an excavation of the past and are futuristic”. But what if dominant tracts of “modern'' society still prefer to flow with retrograde practises? Artist Bharti   explores the vexed 'Saas Bahu' relationship in her brooding work (acrylic on canvas, 30 x 36 cm) that has a devilish figure looming behind the older woman, who also controls the lock that excludes the young bride.
 
 “I live in a modern city like Chandigarh and could never imagine that women face such restrictions in rural areas. My eyes opened when I witnessed the plight of very close relatives, whom I do not want to name. Women in rural areas are still conditioned to think themselves as inferior beings. When I saw the film, ‘Toilet’, it was an eye-opener on the plight of women. My painting similarly strives to open our eyes to a suppressed and extant reality," Sharma, a Chandigarh resident, textile designer and MA in Fine Arts, told TOI.
 
 
