JALANDHAR: The even as opposition   has put its motion, which criticized Khalistani terrorism and supported " ", on hold in the Canadian parliament, incumbent Liberal Party has attacked it for singling out Sikhs. The ruling party also said it would continue to call for justice for the victims of anti-Sikh violence of November 1984. The issue of Canadian PM   's controversy-ridden weeklong India visit continues to simmer in the politics of the maple country. 

 Liberals have also reiterated that that they stand behind a united India, and condemn all forms of terrorism and extremism - in any community, in any part of the world. 
 
 The motion was initially scheduled to come up for debate on March 1 but in morning, Conservative Party said it was being delayed. While Conservatives, apparently, planned to put Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's government in a tight spot on the issue but the reaction from the Sikh community to the motion triggered a rethink, said sources. Sikhs of Canada lobbied against the motion with the Conservative MPs and Sikh leaders of the party a night before it was scheduled to be tabled.
 
 Conservative MP  , who had earlier posted text of the motion, later posted on his official Facebook page stating, "Unfortunately the motion scheduled for today, which I informed you of yesterday evening, has been changed to a different topic. The motion below will be debated when Parliament resumes in 2 weeks. I will be sure to keep you updated on this matter..."
 
 However, Liberals lost no time in attacking Conservatives on the motion. In a strong worded statement issued on Friday, the Liberal Party accused the Conservatives of tabling tjhe motion with intent to drive a wedge between Sikhs and other Canadians of Indian-origin and condemned the "divisive political tactics".
 
 "While the text of the motion as originally written reflects long-standing positions of the government, we condemn the decision by the Conservatives to single out the Sikh community," said the Liberal Party.
 
 While referring to instances like banning the niqab in citizenship ceremonies, introducing the barbaric cultural practices hotline, or opposing RCMP officers wearing turbans, during the previous Conservative regime, Liberals said the motion was in the same league.
 
 "  community and Indo-Canadians have made immeasurable contributions to our national fabric. They should not be disrespected - or have their tragedies exploited - for the political gains of Andrew Scheer and the Conservative Party," it added.
 
 
