In the latest episode of  , Naira puts the baby to sleep and Kartik also helps her. They both look at each other and smile. They wonder how could a parent leave such an adorable child and say that they will miss her once she is gone. 

 Suwarna goes and talks to Aryan (Shubham), who seems very upset. Shubham tells her about Suhana and asks her to get them both married, accepting her the way she was. Suwarna is shocked. He tells her to treat him just as equal as Kartik and help him.
 
 The police still haven't found the baby's parents. Naira and Kartik get sad and play with the baby. Kartik thinks about what he said to Dadi about not having kids and wishes to take back his words. He says that he loves babies and having a family is an important thing. They take a picture with the baby. Suddenly, Suwarna comes to the room and informs them about the baby's parents. The inspector calls Kartik and Naira to meet them.
 
 The inspector brings the baby's parents to the house and makes them meet with the family. They inform them that the baby was stolen from the train and thank everybody for taking such good care of the baby. Naira and Kartik are sad to see the baby go away.
 
 Shubham misses Suhana and thinks of meeting her during the Holi celebrations. Suwarna wishes to fulfill her son's wishes and make up for all her past mistakes. 
 
 The next morning, everybody is getting ready for Holi. Naira and Kartik compete with each other as to who gets to apply colour first. They challenge each other and go downstairs to be with family. Dadi applies tika on everybody. At the Singhania household, the family gets ready to visit the Singhanias. It is the first Holi for Naksh and Kirti but Naksh doesn't want to spoil the mood. He applies colour on Kirti and they hug each other.
 
 Suwarna thinks about Shubham and wishes to talk to Naira regarding the same but holds on until the festivities end. Naira and Kartik go and apply colour on Dadi but she stops them. Suwarna talks to Shubham and says that she will fulfill his wish. He smiles. Kartik and Naira have some fun and put all the colours on the aarti plate.
 
