MUMBAI: A positive aspect of crime trends in   is that its prisons have a low rate of recidivism (the tendency of a convicted criminal to reoffend). 

 Indian prisons in general have a much lower recidivism rate than the West, but even so, as per the Prison Statistics of India (2015) report by the  , the ratio of habitual offenders to fresh convicts is just 0.3% in the state. Nevertheless, experts say, it is necessary to equip convicts with skills while they are in jail so that they can better reintegrate into society upon release. 
 
 
  
 DIG (prisons) Swati Sathe said state jails offer skill development: There is a foundry at   prison and a leather shoe making workshop at   prison. Certificates are handed out so that convicts can get a job upon release. Former ADG (prisons)   said, “We observed that most convicts hailed from rural areas and eventually intended to go back to agriculture. Based on their behaviour and the number of years served, they were selected to be sent to open prisons where they could farm under the supervision of agricultural officers. 
 
 We found that convicts were highly motivated to move to open prisons as they got a remission in their sentences and had an opportunity to work under the open sky. During my stint, we had increased the numbers of convicts to be sent to open prisons.” The Probation of Offenders Act provides for offenders to be released in the community for 1-3 years, except in cases where the maximum punishment is a life term or death. “Probation officers need to visit the offender’s home, meet his neighbours and employer and assess whether he is fit for probation,” said  , professor, Centre for Criminology and Justice, Tiss. “If this law is utilized, a large number of convicts would be out of prison and that's the best way to reform. Jail should be the last resort.” 
 
 Prisons are also a measure of social exclusion in a country. For example, a disproportionately high number of inmates in US prisons is black or a member of any other disadvantaged minority, which reflects America’s enduring racial bias. “The more socially excluded you are, higher your chances of being pushed into crime or destitution. If one looks at the caste background of Indian prison inmates—and that holds true of Maharashtra— most would belong to backward classes, schedules castes or tribes and the minorities,” Raghavan said.
