Chandigarh: An Aam Aadmi Party leader from Dera Baba Nanak has been appointed the new head of Punjab Labourfed, an undertaking of the state government, even as many Congress leaders are eagerly waiting for appointment as chairmen of boards and corporations.

 Gurpartap Singh Khushalpur had contested on an AAP ticket in the last assembly elections and has been active in the area since then. When contacted, Khushalpur said he continued to be a member of the AAP and his name had been endorsed by the board due to his past performance as a member of the organisation. “It is a non-political entity that aims to work for society without any differentiation. I have been a member of a corporation of the cooperative department under the Government of India as well and chairman of Labourfed in the past,” he said.
 
 An AAP spokesperson said Khushalpur continues to be a leader of the party and the party leadership had not taken any note of his appointment. Labourfed, or the Punjab state cooperative labour and construction federation aims to coordinate and facilitate working of cooperative labour and construction societies unions in the state. Its purpose is to help labour construction societies in securing work from the government and or other public and private institutions or from normal trade channel.
 
 Khushalpur had contested the assembly election from Dera Baba Nanak and got over 17,000 votes. He had also campaigned for the party during the Gurdaspur Lok Sabha bypoll.
 
 Senior Congress MLAs are not just waiting for the proposed cabinet expansion, several are anticipating they will be picked for appointment as chairmen of 42 boards or corporations in the state.
 
 So far, less than half-a-dozen Congress leaders have been appointed, including party’s senior vice-president Lal Singh, who was picked as chairman, Mandi Board, soon after the Congress government took over in March 2017 and its local face in Patiala KK Sharma was named chairman of Pepsu Road Transport Corporation (PRTC).
 
 
