NEW DELHI: This Valentine Day, traders of Delhi will protest against the local authorities under the banner 'My Valentine, My Shop' and take out a rally from Chandni Chowk the next day. 

  Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) general secretary Praveen Khandelwal said on Friday that on February 14, all traders' associations would protest outside the offices of  , three municipal corporations, New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC), the Supreme Court- empowered monitoring committee and the Delhi government and give roses to the bureaucrats as a sign of protest against the sealing drive. 
 
 Traders at different markets will start protesting from Saturday, which will culminate into the February 15 rally. However, no market will be shut during these protests.
 
 "The traders of Delhi are disturbed by the ongoing drive and everyone is losing patience as there is no response from the government's end," said Khandelwal. He added that CAIT had demanded immediate intervention from the Centre to halt the sealing drive. "We have demanded a central ordinance as the Supreme Court-appointed committee has been flouting all provisions of MCD Act." The apex court, he added, has never ordered denial of democratic rights or violation of MCD Act. 
 
 The sealing drive was initiated in December and the local authorities have sealed over 1,500 shops across the city. The major markets include those at Defence Colony, Hauz Khas E-block, Sundar Nagar, Lala Lajpat Rai, Chhatarpur, Karol Bagh, Old Rajender Nagar and New Rajender Nagar. 
 
 North Delhi Municipal Corporation sealed two properties in Narela on Friday while the south corporation could not carry out the drive due to non-availability of police personnel. 
 
 NDMC sealed basements of 10 establishments at Connaught Place for misuse of space and unauthorised construction. These include shops and service centres in B,C,E and F blocks. 
 
  East corporation sealed four outlets in Mandavali and Shahadra for non-payment of conversion charges. 
 
 
