THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government’s much publicized LIFE Mission project has run into a major controversy after the statelevel empowered committee took a decision to award the tender for its pilot project at   to an agency by violating the procedures of an open tender process specified by the central vigilance commission and the finance department. The move flouts a recent high court order as well.

 The pilot project to be launched in all 14 districts initially would at least run to more than Rs 75 crore. The mission aims at providing houses for homeless and landless.
 
  
  
 
 A file noting by chief secretary   accessed by TOI shows that he recommended that the bid for constructing 48 apartments at Perinthalmanna at a cost of Rs 5.33 crore should be awarded to the Vadakara-based Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society Ltd (ULCCS), though it was the only tender received in the open tender process.
 
 The state-level empowered committee had on March 23 decided to go for an open tender process to invite bids for construction of six apartment complexes at Chemmanad (Kasaragod), Punalur (Kollam),   (Kozhikode), Perinthalmanna (Malappuram),   (Palakkad) and   (Wayanad). Barring ULCCS, none of the others could meet the prequalification criteria to participate in the bidding process.
 
 But the chief secretary wrote that in view of the urgency to kick off the project and considering that the bidder in Perinthalmanna was ULCCS, an accredited agency for construction projects under the government, the statelevel empowered committee has decided to ratify the opening of the price bid by ULCCS. However, the views of other secretaries were not reflected in the minutes. The decision was taken disregarding the guidelines of the CVC and the finance department. The CVC guidelines says: “If a single bid is received in first invitation, authority inviting the bid shall not open the bid. The authority may either opt to re-tender the work or extend the last date for acceptance by 15 working days to elicit the response of other prospective bidders.”
 
 Interestingly, the chief secretary’s note makes a strange point in favour of ULCCS, saying that the rate it quoted was 3% less when compared to an initial estimate prepared by ULCCS itself for the housing project. But, a related file noting by LSGD secretary B Ashok says that the ULCCS has reduced the rate by excluding the cost for land preparation including piling, reducing the plinth area of the apartments and by excluding common amenities like compound wall, fire safety equipment and sewage treatment system.
 
 The chief secretary’s note also says that considering the urgency of work, work order at the 13 sites can be given to other accredited government agencies, if others are ready to take up the work at a rate quoted by the ULCCS for Perinthalmanna, and that they should also include land development cost, site development cost, sewage treatment plant etc.
 
 However, the LSGD secretary refuted the strange conditionality, citing a high court order that says that even among the accredited agencies, the government works should not be awarded without going for a tender.
 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan gave clearance to the chief secretary’s note, while LSGD minister K T Jaleel wrote on the file that the matter be placed before the cabinet for endorsement. It has been learnt that the cabinet put the matter on hold but Ashok was transferred as parliamentary affairs secretary. Antony and Ashok refused to comment on the matter.
 
 
