GREATER NOIDA: A 27-year-old man died of electrocution while three of his neighbours sustained injuries as their   were hit by a surge of high-voltage current in Greater Noida’s Kadalpur village around midnight on Tuesday. 

 Power officials said the accident occurred due to the failure of the converter of a 10 KVA transformer in the area that had led to the conversion of a low-tension line into 11,000 volts.
 
 The deceased has been identified as  , a bike mechanic. The other victims — Mushtaq, Kamlesh, and Raju — are being treated in a private hospital.
 
 “Gulzar, his wife and three children were sleeping in the house when suddenly around 12.30 am high-voltage current scorched the wiring of the house and electrified gadgets and fans. My brother woke up and tried to switch off the   to disconnect the electric supply. As soon as he touched the switch, he was electrocuted and died on the spot,” said Waseem, his brother.
 
 While Gulzar’s wife Shabana, and three children — Sania (7), Gausia (5), and Hibza (4) — escaped without injuries, the electricity surge also affected several neighbouring homes in which Mushtaq, Kamlesh and Raju were injured. As a large number of people gathered at the spot and protested against negligence by the power department, electricity supply was disconnected.
 
 Senior power department officials rushed to the spot early on Wednesday morning. “The failure of the converter of a 10 KVA transformer in the area had led to the conversion of low-tension power line into 11,000 volt high-tension line between 12 am and 2 am,” said AK Singh, superintending engineer in charge of  , Dadri and Jewar.
 
 However, no FIR has been registered in the matter yet. “Gulzar’s family has decided against conducting a post-mortem. They have also not filed any police complaint,” said Rajveer Singh Chauhan, SHO, Rabupura police station.
 
 Gulzar’s family has been given Rs 5 lakh as compensation, while the injured were given Rs 10,000 each by the power department.
 
 “I have asked power department officials to check all transformers, low-lying cables, panels and switches in the area and other rural parts of the district. These incidents should not happen at any cost,” said Jewar MLA Dhirendra Singh, who also visited the area later in the day.
 
 Waseem, however, claimed such incidents “are frequent in the village”.
 
 
