A bunch of   went bird-watching on Sunday morning. However, this was different from their earlier trails. The group took off to Goregoan East in search of   — a rare songbird. The orange-and-black bird is mostly spotted in dense vegetation. Says avid birder Rishul Bangar who organised the trail, “Very few birds can sing as sweetly as the shama. When it does, it literally seems to call out to you. In trying to spot it, we caught a glimpse of several uncommon birds like the   with its ribbon-like tail, pretty purple sunbirds and small black drongos with dolphin-like tails.”

 
 
 
  
  
 
 The group comprising 15 people met at 7 am sharp at the   gate. “Birding activity is high between 8am-9.30 am. If you go any earlier, spotting birds isn’t easy with the fog around,” explains Rishul. 
 They started from the gate and it was a good 3.5 km walk inside. First to be seen was the black-hooded oriole. The white-rumped shama is 
 usually spotted near the leopard trail. The group spotted it right there within the dense shrubs. It was sitting alone as the shama is a solitary bird. It is also a territorial bird and seen here during the late winter. Like other bird walks, one must have a notebook at hand to document the ‘sightings’. The group also caught sight of a herd of spotted deer as they neared the Salim Ali Point. The deer were passing by and stopped briskly to glance at the birdwatchers, much to their delight. 
 Sunny Patil, naturalist for the last 12 years, led the group towards a leafy path to spot drongos. “These are a clever species and can mimic other sounds well, even those of a car and truck. When they feed on insects, they make the sounds of an eagle to keep off other birds,” he informs. Another uncommon bird is the brownish-grey woodshrike.
 Wait, there’s also a chameleon among birds. “These are leafbirds, green in colour,” says Sunny. “They are so well camouflaged that it’s difficult to spot them in the greenery when they are feeding on nectar.” Nature plays host to the two-legged creatures, too. “This is the time for red-hued wild flowers to bloom — like the bright palash, also called the flame of the forest. “Leaf birds, sunbirds and bulbuls come to feed on its nectar which makes it easier to spot them,” he informs.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Heard about the ghost trees in Filmcity? It’s not what you’re thinking. It refers to a bright, white tree found in the green zone of the film studio area. “On a full moon night, the tree resembles a ghost from a distance. And that's how it got its name,” explains Siddharth Sudhakar, a wildlife researcher. One needs special permission access the trail that leads to these trees. The group heads to it after a 10-minute walk from the main gate. True to its name, the ghost tree is pale white and stands out among other green and brown trees. He points to starlings and parakeets who have perched themselves on this tree. Even in the day time, it certainly makes for a striking sight! 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Contrary to its concrete jungle image, the island city is thriving with numerous bird trails that Mumbaikars embark on to unwind over the weekend. Informs nature photographer Saurabh Sawant, who organises regular weekend birding trails, “Sanjay Gandhi National Park is a birder's paradise, with close to 250 species recorded here. Places
 like Navi Mumbai, Thane, Belapur and Virar are also getting popular for its bird watching trails. Around winter, you can see almost 80 species at one go — birds like orange-red thrush, shama, sunbird, crested-serpent eagle, black eagle, shikra,  , yellow-throated sparrows and more.” 
 If you go trekking to  , you are likely to spot the Shaheen Falcons, a subspecies of the peregrine falcon.
 The Bhandup pumping station is another hot-pot on the birdwatcher’s map. “One can look for wading birds here like the flamingos, herons and cormorants. Aside of its wetlands, you have greenery that plays host to uncommon species like the Baya Weavers and the Pied Cuckoo,” informs Siddharth.
 If you are new to the hobby, there is no need to feel lost among the many names. Anyone can embark on a trail. “Everyone should try a bird-watching trail once. Not many are aware of the green presence in Mumbai, a trail like that makes you realise that and gets you hooked to it. The guides that come on the trails are usually a storehouse of information,” he adds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The white-rumped shama is a small orange-black bird with a melodious voice. It is extremely territorial and can be seen only in forested areas.
 
 
