VADODARA: The cycle sharing project taken up as part of the   initiative by the   ( ) has been put on a backburner. 

 Despite repeated attempts to invite expression of interest, there are little takers to execute the project, which was first proposed by the civic body in 2016. Funds were allocations for the same in the 2016-17 budget. This was also included in the area-based development (ADB) project in the Smart City proposal.
 
 Since then, officials said, the civic body made seven attempts to identify a vendor to take up the service but has failed to do so. In the first attempt, a lot of enthusiasm was seen and a leading bicycle manufacturer was also keen. After the technical bids were opened, seven vendors including the bicycle manufacturer made presentations to the VMC.
 
 However, the enthusiasm did not translate into financial bids by the vendors. Nobody came up to make financial bids despite the tender conditions being tweaked. The bone of contention remains that the civic body is not willing to spend any amount on the project.
 
 An official said that the vendors may not be finding the project viable. “Vadodara is a small city with no parking problems. Also, there are no mass transit systems like in cities where the cycle sharing projects feed these systems,” said the official. Since the last several month no fresh attempt inviting vendors has been made.
 
 Bicycle sharing or renting projects have been launched earlier in bigger cities like Delhi and Ahmedabad. These largely cater to those travelling by public transportation facilities like the metro in Delhi or BRTS in Ahmedabad.
 
 VMC was eyeing to come up with the project in the M   campus and the area around it initially. This included areas like Fatehgunj, Sayajigunj, Kamatibaug Road and Pratapgunj. The bicycles were to be GPS enabled to ensure that they are not taken away by the users. The university is now looking to have its own project for the campus on the same lines.
 
 Sources added that another major reason for the project not taking off could be the fact that the civic body is cash-strapped and is looking to spend only on projects that are a priority for the city. Cycle sharing, clearly, is something that it does not want to spend on and is looking for a public-private partnership arrangement where it need not spend money.
 
 
