Chennai: It is not just art collectors or the hospitality industry that are customers for paintings or designs of independent artists. Now, in a bid to boost customer and employee engagement, startups and small businesses are reaching out to artists to purchase or subscribe to their paintings. They not only purchase works of independent artists but also replace them frequently. Portals such as the Floating Canvas Company, which serve as platforms for independent artists to monetise their work, are seeing increasing participation from small customer-facing businesses to not only purchase their paintings but also offer art on subscription service. The company offers access to works of several artists at a fraction of the actual cost of the painting.  According to research by Exeter University’s School of Psychology found that employees who have control over the design and layout of their workspace are not only happier and healthier, they are also up to 32% more productive. In their attempt to appeal to the millennial customer and create better brand recall, companies help artists by sourcing paintings of local designers and visual artists. Individuals and startups see that the subscription model offers a lower cost of purchasing art. “When you change paintings from time to time, the look and feel of the company is better, employees and clients have better engagement and brand recall,” said Keshav Marda, director, Vibrant Holiday Destinations. “Entrepreneurs don’t invest in art because of the high price. With this model, they can just pay a small price every month to not only have artwork from independent artists, but also have a new office look every six months. Artists also get a regular source of income,” said Aagam Mehta, co-founder, Floating Canvas Company. The company has over 50 enterprises signed up for subscriptions with an average monthly price of Rs 5000 to Rs 6,000. Artists find the interest among small businesses an additional revenue channel. Some have seen close to 25-30% increase in their revenue. “We not only have the avenue to get our paintings sold, but there is a source of regular income too, “said Sajid Wajid Shaikh, a multidisciplinary artist. However, even as there is an increased interest among small businesses, some websites feel that high prices drive away small players. “Small businesses do not want to spend beyond Rs 20,000 on art/painting given their tight purse strings,” said Vishal Singhal, founder, Artzolo, which sees only a 25% conversion rate because of the high priced art.