PUNE: A gang sprayed itching powder on a businessman, diverted his attention and stole a bag containing cash Rs1.10 lakh outside a medical store adjacent to   on Mundhwa-Kharadi bypass at 10.42am on Tuesday.

 Manjri resident   (30) is the sixth victim of the itching powder spray gang. He runs a housekeeping business. An FIR has been filed under sections 379 (theft) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.
  
  
 
 Sarkale went to the bank around 10.30am and withdrew Rs1.10 lakh by cheque to pay salary to his employees. He kept the cash in a black bag and walked out of the bank.
 
 Sarkale stated in his complaint, “I started scratching my neck when a man came from the rear and advised me to spray water for relief. I rushed to Gopal medical store and purchased a bottle of water. I kept the bag outside the store, walked a little ahead to an open place and started spraying water on my neck. In the meantime, the man picked up the bag and sped away on a black motorbike.”
 
 Chandannagar police’s sub-inspector   said, “Investigations revealed that one of the suspects sprayed itching powder on the businessman’s neck and shoulder. Seeing him walking towards his vehicle, the suspect ran after him and diverted his attention, saying dirt had fallen on his clothes. The suspect then asked him to remove the shirt and use water to clean it.”
 
 He said, “The businessman rushed to the medical store and purchased the water bottle after keeping the bag aside. The suspect took advantage of the situation, picked up the bag and sped away towards Hadapsar.”
 
 Bhosale said, “Sarkale did not chase the suspects, nor did he raise an alarm. He called his brother and conducted searches at various places up to Mundhwa bridge, but in vain.”
 
 Another officer at the police station said, “A CCTV camera installed at the bank has captured images of the two men involved in the crime. But we suspect the involvement of a few more people. The bag was stolen because of the businessman’s negligence.”
 
 
