BENGALURU: It’s been 18 months since the city got its first   (CNG) station, yet only around 350   are currently plying on the  . Bengaluru is home to 73 lakh vehicles.

 According to officials from  , which runs the station near Laggere, a majority of these vehicles are registered outside the state where CNG is popular; only 45 are registered in Karnataka.
 
 Industry sources say entry of electric vehicles, shortage of filling stations and lack of awareness have resulted in the low popularity of  . Three CNG filling stations meant exclusively for BMTC buses have been commissioned in the corporation’s Sumanahalli, Hennur and Peenya depots but they lie unused. In 2014, the government had announced 271 CNG buses would be inducted into the BMTC fleet but now the corporation is keen on electric buses, which are cheaper and more environment friendly.
 
 However, none of this has deterred GAIL Gas from going ahead with its expansion plans. It is planning to set up 60 CNG filling outlets across the city in the next three to four years. GAIL’s second CNG filling station for the public was opened on Sunday at a BPCL fuel outlet in Sunkadakatte. The company has entered into collaborations to set up stations at retail outlets of IOCL, BPCL and HPCL.
 
 “We are planning to build four more CNG stations in the next few weeks in Peenya, Bommasandra, Jigani and Bande Kodigehalli (on the alternative road to the airport via Hennur),” said Partha Jana, general manager (projects), GAIL. Even places like Agara, Kengeri, Tatanagar, Mahadevapura and Goravigere will get the facility in three to six months.
 
 
  
 
 Officials said existing vehicles can be retrofitted with CNG at authorized centres. At present, Bengaluru has four CNG retro-fitment centres at K H B Road in R T Nagar, Muneshwara Block in Laggere, RMV 2nd Stage and Inner Ring Road, Koramangala. CNG conversion cost of four-wheelers is around Rs 28,000, two- wheelers is Rs 24,000 and autorickshaws is Rs 25,000.
 
 GAIL Gas officials said CNG is cheaper than diesel and petrol, and CNG vehicles cost lesser than electric vehicles. “Electric vehicles are limited to short-range travel and can’t be used round the clock compared to those running on CNG. The fuel is available in all major cities but electric vehicle charging infrastructure is minimal in big cities and non-existent in smaller ones,” said a senior GAIL Gas official listing the advantages of CNG vehicles. “Refiling time for CNG vehicles is also lesser than that of electric vehicles,” he added. GAIL Gas expects more than 2 lakh CNG vehicles, excluding two-wheelers, to hit the road in another four years.
 
 Environmentalist A N Yellappa Reddy said: “It’s unfortunate that CNG is yet to gain popularity despite rise in pollution levels. The government should make CNG mandatory for autos and commercial vehicles in the first phase and gradually extend the move to other vehicles”. He said the government should also offer subsidy to those wanting to opt for retrofitting.
 
 
 
 
 
