Vadodara: A royal property located on the scenic banks of river Narmada, and which once hosted the likes of Viceroy of India during the British Era and author Ian Fleming, will now be turned into country’s first resource centre for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) community.

 Rajpipla’s gay prince Manvendra Singh Gohil is developing the centre at a property named - Hanumanteshwar 1927. This property was originally built by his ancestors on the 15-acre land, around 15 km away from Rajpipla town in Narmada district. 
 
 “My great grandfather Maharaja Vijaysinhji – the last ruler of Rajpipla had constructed this royal property. It has hosted many dignitaries including Viceroy of India, members of the royal family and Hollywood celebrities. I am developing it into a resource centre for the sexual minorities - LGBTQ community,” said Manvendra, who calls it an LGBTQA centre (with ‘A’ standing for ‘Ally’ who support the community in their rights).
 
 “The centre will impart skills in the fields of computer, English language and others to LGBTQ community members so that they get employment opportunities and become financially independent,” said Gohil, adding that the huge parcel of land around the property will be used by community members to grow agriculture products to make the centre self-sustainable. 
 
 Gohil is presently raising funds to fully develop the centre which can ultimately accommodate around 25 persons from the community. 
 
 “The centre as I have visualised will have rooms to carry out multipurpose activities, music rooms, vocational training rooms, rooms where yoga, meditation and educational skills can be imparted apart from a library,” he said, adding that while he has already made the entire premises solar powered, the Lakshya Trust which is developing the centre will require around Rs 65 lakh to fully develop the centre. 
 
 He, however, added that just one centre in Narmada will not be enough for the entire community. “Scientific surveys have suggested that 5 to 10 percent of any population is either gay or lesbian. In India, given the size of our population, this figure reaches into billions. In times to come, we will need more such centres,” said Gohil, adding that such centres do exist in United States, Australia and some European countries. 
 
 Lord Willingdon, who had served as 22nd Viceroy and Governor General of India, had also stayed at the property when he came at Rajpipla to inaugurate railway bridge on river at Karjan. 
 
 Through the centre, Gohil wants to make the vulnerable community financially independent as the centre will also impart skills to members of the community apart from providing roof to the socially disowned. 
 
 After Gohil went public saying that he was a homosexual, his family had put up an advertisement disowning him in 2006. “But we need to make efforts to make members from the community financially independent so that they are in better position to decide what they need,” he said.
 
 
