MUMBAI: The state government may frame a policy for its employees undergoing sex change and transgenders. The state home department recently received a report from DGP   that put the onus on the government to decide the case of woman constable Lalita  , who wants to undergo a sex change surgery. The home department sought an opinion from the state law department. Although it is still awaited, a senior official said the state may come out with a policy for such people.

 Lalita Salve (29) from Beed joined as a police constable in 2010. She sought permission last September to go on one-month leave to undergo a sex-change operation. Her leave request was rejected in November 2017, leading her to approach the Bombay high court.
 
 The police department denied her permission on the grounds that she would fall two centimetres short of the height requirement for a male constable. Following media reports, the chief minister asked the DGP to review the case.   submitted a report to the home department, stating the police had rejected her request for reinduction after her sex change. Mathur put the ball in the state’s court, suggesting it should take the call on the matter.
 
 A senior home department official called the case “rarest of rare”. “Salve’s case should be treated as a special case as the major issue is whether she should be allowed to continue as a male constable or to get re-recruited as per criteria for male candidates,” he said.
 
 The home department has sought the opinion of the law and judiciary department about the repercussions.
 
 Alaw department official said the case may not be the last of its kind. “The state should have a policy in case another such case comes up, even in other departments. Also, the government must have a stand should the Maharashtra Administrative Tribunal (MAT) ask it about that,” he said.
 
 In the last week of November 2017, the high court asked Salve to approach the MAT. In October, Salve got her name notarised to Lalit. In her court plea, she said doctors who examined her found that she suffers from “gender dysphoria with the presence of 'y' chromosomes found in males”.
 
 The first case of recruiting a transgender person in the police took place in Chennai last year. In April 2017, K Prithika Yashini (26) completed her training as a sub-inspector at the Tamil Nadu Police Academy.
 
