TRICHY: All the 41 university constituent arts and science colleges in the state will be converted into government arts and science colleges, announced chief minister   in the state assembly on Friday. 

 
 The state government will be spending an additional Rs152.20 crore towards these colleges, thereby relieving the state-run universities from the burden of running these colleges. The decision was taken after consistent demand from the state-run arts and science universities who were unable to run the colleges due to the huge financial burden.
 
 A few months ago, the state government had categorically stated that it will not start any more constituent colleges. Converting the existing constituent colleges into government colleges is a positive policy decision say experts, as the government has shifted from its earlier stand to move out of public funding education. 
 
 In 2002, state government had decided to convert all government arts colleges into constituent colleges. The idea was to shun its funding for government arts colleges, that it directly runs, but the decision was rolled back after stiff resistant from   teachers. Later the concept of constituent colleges was encouraged which kept on adding financial burden on the state-run universities.
 
 Bharathidasan and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University are to be the two universities that will hugely benefit out of this move, as they run 10 constituent colleges each among the total 41 in Tamil Nadu.
 
 “Spending seven crores every year towards these colleges was a huge burden for   ( ), said its vice-chancellor P Manisankar while welcoming the move. “The demand was put forward by all state universities considering the financial burden. The move would benefits ad hoc teachers in these colleges who will be considered for regularisation. Besides, the college fees too will be slashed as students need not pay tuition fee in government colleges,” he added.
 
 Stating that it was indeed a big decision on part of the government, higher education secretary Sunil Paliwal told TOI that the colleges would function as government colleges from this academic year and the discussions on its modalities were underway.
 
 Former president of association of university teachers (AUT)   said that this was a reforming policy decision and added that the move enforces confidence that the government was not wriggling out of its responsibilities in public funded institutions. 
 
 
