MUMBAI: The BMC on Thursday demolished a 400ftx25ft   inside the elite   ( ) at Worli. TOI had in its Thursday edition reported that the civic body had sent two notices to the club for building violations and breach of lease conditions.

 Satish Powar, designated municipal officer in the BMC’s G-south ward office, said a notice had been issued to NSCI in October 2017 listing various illegal constructions carried out by the club management. “A pucca construction of 400ftx25ft in the compulsory open space outside the Palace Hall (the banquet hall on the premises) was completely razed on Thursday,’’ he told TOI.
 
 Three months ago, a civic inspection team had found several irregularities: a portion on the ground floor of the new indoor stadium building was found occupied without permission, acrylic sheds had been constructed touching the front portion of the sports hall at the stadium’s Entrance C, a 20ft wall had been built in the front open space of the banquet hall, and there were illegal monsoon sheds near the swimming pool area.
 
  
  
 
 The BMC will now be looking into charges of misuse of space marked for sports activities, it is learnt. A 30,000 sq ft area reserved as a “sports Hall” in the civic plan has been used for the banquet hall called the Palace Hall. “Luxury Banquets, Redefined. Two inter connected pillar-less halls spanning 30,000 sq ft with capacity for a floating crowd of 1,500 people. Separate vegetarian and non-vegetarian kitchens,’’ said an advertisement put out by the club recently.
 
 NSCI president Jayantilal Shah said the club had applied to the BMC to allow change of user so that the space earmarked for the sports hall and the seminar area could be used as a banquet hall.
 
 Advocate and BJP city secretary Vivekanand Gupta said he had raised a red flag about misuse of space in the club two years ago. “Liquor is openly served in the space reserved for seminar halls in the civic building plan. Several senior municipal officials have been given honorary memberships. They are aware of these illegalities,” he alleged.
 
 “I also have reasons to believe that there are FSI and CRZ violations by the club. I request you to appoint an expert committee to look into the violations,” Gupta wrote to the civic chief in 2015.
 
 Some club members who did not wish to be named said the 5,000-seater sports stadium is the only portion which has an occupation certificate. “But most of the time, it is used for concerts, corporate events and religious shows and not for sporting activities,” they said. The BMC is also looking into this, sources said.
 
