KOLKATA: At least 17 people died as the state’s villages went to vote for the panchayat poll on Monday, making it the bloodiest day of a long season and keeping the 2018 rural vote true to Bengal’s tradition of blood-soaked election narratives. The first lives lost were that of a couple burnt in their sleep in South 24-Parganas’ Kakdwip, hours before the start of polling, and the death meter ticked with metronomic regularity almost every waking hour after that.

  
  
 Miscreants intimidated voters in queue, snatched ballot boxes and singed ballot papers, opened fire at political rivals, hurled bombs at cops and forced poll officials to leave booths at places, raising serious questions over the wisdom of the State Election Commission’s decision to hold the poll on a single day after the 2013 rural election saw a vote spread over five days.
 
 Monday’s toll was easily the highest 24-hour count in Bengal’s recent electoral history though state government officials argued that the figure was less than that seen during the 2013 panchayat poll, when 25 people died on the five days when polling took place.
 
 The SEC took cognisance of just six poll-related deaths and took recourse to the measuring tape to conclude six others were “non-poll deaths” as they occurred more than 200 metres away from polling booths.
 
 The union ministry of home affairs sought a report from the state government on the violence as opposition parties hit the street to protest against the SEC. The CPM staged a demonstration in front of the SEC office and the BJP knocked on Raj Bhavan’s doors to complain against the poll panel. The SEC said it was examining all the complaints and would take a call on re-poll based on a home department report.
 
 Many of the deaths have occurred in districts like Murshidabad, South 24-Parganas, Coochbehar, Nadia and Hooghly, which have also seen a disproportionately high number of Trinamool “walkover” winners. The opposition interpreted the bloodbath in these areas as a focused Trinamool bid to gain control over as many panchayat seats as possible ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 Unconfirmed reports said a Trinamool Congress supporter was killed in Nadia’s Tehatta. Krishnapada Sarkar’s family members claimed he was targeted by opposition supporters.
 
 The deaths were also divided across parties, with the Trinamool claiming at least five of the dead as their own, indicating a tacit understanding among and counter-resistance by supporters of all opposition parties, including the BJP and the CPM. Senior Trinamool Congress minister Partha Chatterjee accused the opposition parties and Independents of ganging up against the ruling party.
 
 The five Trinamool men who died came from Nadia’s Shantipur and Nakashipara, South 24-Parganas’ Bhangar and North Dinajpur’s Raiganj. People standing in queue at a Shantipur booth lynched Trinamool worker Sanjit Pramanik as he tried to take control of the booth. The angry mob then chased away miscreants, who rode in on 12 motorbikes, and then set the bikes on fire. CPM supporters chased Trinamool worker Bhola Dafadar at Bilkumari in Nadia’s Nakashipara, took him to a neighbouring house’s roof and killed him. Another Trinamool worker, Arif Ali Gaji, was killed inside a Kultali polling booth; the Trinamool accused the SUCI, which denied the charge. Another Trinamool worker died in South Dinajpur’s Tapan.
 
 The challenge to the Trinamool came from varied sources, ranging from the Naxal-backed Save   “Independents” in Bhangar to opposition-backed Independents in East Midnapore’s Nadigram and West Midnapore’s forest hamlets. West Burdwan’s Kanksa saw Trinamool “outsiders” being beaten back and West Midnapore’s Keshpur saw cops themselves being forced to retreat amid heavy brick-batting.
 
 But it was the opposition that bore the brunt of the violence. CPM couple Debu and Usha Das were burnt to death in their sleep in Kakdwip, fuelling tension in the area. Independent supporter Sahin Shiekh was killed and seven others had bullet wounds in Murshidand’s Naoda, Congress district leader Abu Taher’s turf. BJP activist Tapan Mandal was killed in Murshidabad’s Beldanga. CPM supporters Apu Manna and Jaggeswar Das fell to bullets fired by motorbike-borne Trinamool miscreants at Khodambari in East Mindapore’s Nandigram. BJP activist Tapan Mandal was killed in Murshidabad and, in North 24-Parganas’ Amdanga, CPM activist Toibur Gazi was killed in a clash with Trinamool men. Trinamool minister Rabindranath Ghosh went to a Coochbehar booth and slapped a BJP polling agent, who ran out of the booth to seek his protection after being driven out by Trinamool men.
 
 Trinamool supporters damaged ballot boxes and papers in Jyangra, on Kolkata’s northern fringes, in Jalpaiguri’s Rajganj as well as in Murshidabad’s Beldanga and Rejinagar and Birbhum’s Mohammadbazar. Ballot boxes were taken away from polling booths in Hooghly’s Pursura and Tarakeshwar. And, in East Burdwan’s Memari, once a CPM bastion where the party could not even field candidates for the zilla parishad this time, Trinamool men snatched ballot boxes from Kabirpur Primary School. Similar reports came in from Chandrakona and Egra’s Jhumki.
 
 
