PIMPRI  : The civic body is planning to ply buses on the   Bus Rapid Transit System corridor from May after completing the road construction by April-end.

 Vijay  , the spokesperson of Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said, “The total cost of this project is Rs219 crore. The BRTS corridor will be 24m wide in the   area and 30m wide at Jadhavwadi of Chikhli.”
 
 He said the major component of this project was the city’s longest flyover — 1.6-km-long Empire Estate. Its project cost is Rs98 crore.
 
 Bhojane said the flyover construction was almost complete. “The work of whitewashing and installing the expansion joints on the flyover has to be completed. We expect to complete the entire work by the end of April and open it for the vehicular traffic after informing the mayor and civic office-bearers,” he said.
 
 “Two industrial units in Chinchwad have to be shifted for this BRTS corridor. They have demanded alternative industrial plot. Around 50m stretch has not been constructed because of this obstruction. We are ready to provide compensation to the   (MIDC),” said Bhojane.
 
 On if the delay in shifting the two industries would be a hindrance to opening the BRTS corridor, he said, “The work of Empire Estate flyover is in progress and the industries are on only two small portions of the corridor. So, people are using a major part of it. There are adjacent roads to bypass the two industries and people will be able to use the entire stretch after we complete the work by the end of April,” said Bhojane.
 
 “The dedicated BRTS bus corridor passes through the centre. There are a total of 17 bus stations on this corridor. The construction work of eight bus stations is complete. The construction of another five bus stations is in progress. Two stations will be constructed on Empire Estate flyover. There are three bus stops on the 24-metre-wide stretch in Kudalwadi. They will be made of stainless steel,” he said.
 
 Bhojane said, “We need to create dedicated BRTS corridor on the 1.5km stretch from MM School to the beginning of the Empire Estate flyover. The installation of sliding doors and signage has to be completed at the bus stops.”
 
 
