MUMBAI: A complaint by an accused wanting to turn approver alleging threats received from the Bhujbals has been cited as one of the grounds by the special Prevention of   Act (PMLA) court that rejected the bail plea of former deputy chief minister   and his nephew   in a Rs 850 crore money laundering case.

 Referring to the complaint made by the co-accused,  , that was submitted by the   to oppose the bail plea, the special judge said, “The act of the applicants (the Bhujbals) and the co-accused shows that there are allegations of threats to the co-accused who had moved an application to become approver and therefore tampering with the witnesses due to the conduct of the applicants cannot be ruled out.”
 
 On December 18, 2017, the court had rejected the bail pleas. A detailed order copy was made available recently.
 
 Seeking bail, the defence had cited a Supreme Court judgement in which it has observed that unless exceptional circumstances are brought to the court which may defeat proper investigation and a fair trial, the court will not decline bail to a person who is not accused of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life. The PMLA court held that considering the background of the threat complaint, this rider is not applicable in the case.
 
 In the plea submitted in July last year, Bhujbal, 70, said he had been languishing in custody since his arrest on March 14, 2016. He was taken into custody after the Enforcement Directorate alleged that the Bhujbal-led Public Works Department in 2005 gave development rights of an Andheri RTO plot and an adjoining slum to developer K S Chamankar without inviting tenders, on the condition that he would construct the Maharashtra Sadan in New Delhi, the RTO building and a guesthouse at Malabar Hill. Chamankar sold the land rights to a construction company and generated over Rs 850 crore. The Bhujbals received kickbacks from the deal and they created bogus entities to channelize the money, the ED said.
 
  
  
 The court held that on perusal of the statements and the other supporting material, it is revealed that there is sufficient prima facie material which demonstrates that the accused have laundered the money, which was public money. “The accused were holding high office and despite that (were) involved in money laundering which paralyzed the economy of the country. Considering the role of the applicants in generating the crime proceeds and further act of laundering it appears to be a serious act,” the court held.
 
 The court pointed out that Chhagan Bhujbal, while enjoying a high position, secured the contract of Maharashtra Sadan after which he and Sameer received kickbacks in the project. “They did not stop there, but they systematically laundered the amount i.e. crime proceeds. The approach of the applicants at this stage cannot be ignored,” the court observed.
 
 The court, however, said the accused have been in custody for 20-21 months and care would be taken to expedite the trial so that the rights of accused for expeditious and fair trial would be secured.
 
 While praying for Bhujbal’s remand in March 2016, the ED had submitted that Amit Balraj, a former employee of The Mumbai Education Trust (MET), founded by Chhagan, had alleged that he had witnessed large bags stashed with Rs 1 crore worth of currency in Rs 1,000 denomination notes on the ninth floor of the office. The ED had claimed Balraj had disclosed that the money from the leather bags brought to the top floor was counted by currency counting machines. The plea to turn approver in the case was moved last year and opposed by the Bhujbals.
 
 
