CHANDIGARH:  , SAD leader and a close aide of Punjab former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal, had hit the headlines recently after he was listed as a wilful defaulter of the Punjab State Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank Limited ( ). He owed the bank Rs 1.05 crore.

 However, the bank’s list of 26 powerful wilful defaulters does not include just SAD leaders. The list was handed over to Sukhjinder Singh   after he took over as Punjab cooperative department minister in the recent cabinet expansion. It has 12 defaulters affiliated with SAD, five with the  , two with the BJP, one with the AAP and ex-district president of the People’s Party of Punjab (PPP). There are also three farmers’ union leaders and a retired IAS officer and his family members. Together, they owed the bank more than Rs 12 crore.
 
 The defaulters also include former SAD Ludhiana MP   and his family who has been shown as having an outstanding loan of Rs 80 lakh towards PADB’s Jagraon branch. Aliwal had joined the Congress in December 2016 in the run-up to the state assembly elections.
 
 Also, retired Punjab IAS officer Sarup Singh Dhillon and his son owe Rs 12 lakh to the bank’s Bassi Pathana branch. Dhillon had remained director of the rural development and panchayats department in the previous Congress government regime in 2004.
 
 After Randhawa threatened to act against wilful defaulters, Kolianwali and his family submitted three cheques (two post-dated) amounting to Rs 95.70 lakh on May 14. Also, Congress leader Raman Bhalla and his family had submitted five cheques (four post-dated) amounting to Rs 20 lakh on May 22. Bhalla had unsuccessfully contested 2012 assembly elections from Pathankot seat on Congress ticket and lost to BJP’s  .
 
 According to the minister, after he took over the department, around Rs 6.5 crore had been recovered from big defaulters till Wednesday. Randhawa had, in the first phase, directed his department to send notices to 20 big defaulters.
 
 A senior PADB official told TOI, “After issuing fresh notices, most of the willful defaulters have started repaying some amount out of their loans and some are even paying the postdated cheques.”
 
 
