PATNA: The state government will soon form a Bihar   to suggest appropriate measures for curbing road accidents in the state, which has around 110 ‘black or accident-prone spots’.

 State transport department secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said CM   had recently asked all district magistrates (DMs) and superintendents of police (SPs) to identify accident-prone zones under their respective jurisdictions. “State transport minister will be the chairman of the proposed council, which will seek suggestions from officials of all departments concerned as well as the common people on how to curb road accidents,” Agarwal said.
 
 He added the black spots have been identified on national highways, state highways and rural. “Some blind curves have also been identified,” Agarwal said, adding ten black spots have been identified in   alone, including R-Block, Income Tax roundabout and Gandhi Maidan crossing.
 
 “Bihar has been ranked 13th in the country in terms of occurrence of most road accidents. On an average, the state registers 5,200 accidents every year. The number, however, is less when compared to states like Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra, which record 20,000 and 15,000 accidents per year, respectively,” Agarwal said.
 
 He said some of the major reasons for accidents in towns are traffic indiscipline, lack of vigilance on major crossings and ill-maintained open turns. “Installation of signboards 500 meters away from the junction points, zebra crossings for pedestrians and proper vigilance at major crossings are some of the measures the transport department has planned to curb road accidents. Of the 110 black spots, rectification work has already been initiated at 57 spots. The rest of the black spots will be covered within the next three months,” Agarwal said.
 
 Black spots are the locations which have higher chances of road accidents. According to experts, black or dark spots can also be improved through accident investigation and prevention techniques, which involve certain analysis of accident data and understanding the cause of accidents, followed by implementation of appropriate measures and engineering solutions.
 
 The transport secretary said simple and low-cost engineering techniques could reduce the number of accidents. 
 
 
