AMRITSAR: In a major security breach, a number of pilgrims from Pakistan, part of the Pakistani jatha, have left for Delhi and Haridwar without visa extension. Their Visa is only for Amritsar. 

 A few locals are actively engaged in providing Indian SIM cards and taxis for their travels. A group of 45 persons from Pakistan is here on a 20-day visa for Amritsar. Intelligence sources said a few Pakistani pilgrims were ‘missing’ from Amritsar. “Since they look like Indians, it is very hard to single them out in the crowd unless everyone is kept under watch,” said intelligence officials, adding that many of them travel to other cities in taxis, buses and unreserved bogies of trains.
 
 “There are many Pakistani nationals who visit India on a regular basis. Many visit other cities without having a valid visa, which is a serious security breach and a matter of concern for security agencies,” said rights activist PC  .
 
 Sharma has also sent a complaint about travel irregularities by Pakistani nationals to the Prime Minister, seeking an inquiry.
 
 Alleging corruption in extending invitations for pilgrimages, he said he demanded an inquiry into sponsors of Pakistani and Indian pilgrims visiting respective countries. “The invitation doesn’t come free, but pilgrims have to shell out money to secure their place in the jatha,” Sharma alleged, adding that an inquiry should be conducted into Indian groups taking jathas to Pakistan.
 
 “We keep receiving complaints of many groups having a ‘fee’ to include the names of persons who aspire to undertake the pilgrimage and apply visas for them,” he said.
 
 A resident of Amritsar, who had travelled to Pakistan in a jatha, said, “I wanted to go on pilgrimage to Pakistan. I contacted one of the groups, which leads jathas to Pakistan but to my utter astonishment I was asked to pay Rs 11,000. Since I had no other choice, I paid and my name was included in the jatha.”
 
 Sharma also raised the issue of procuring Indian mobile SIM cards by Pakistani nationals. “How Pakistani visitors get mobile SIM cards is a matter of grave concern,” he said.
 
 Sources said a few persons were involved in providing Indian SIM cards to Pakistani visitors on payment of Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,500 per SIM card.
 
 In February, Vicky, a resident of   in Balochistan, who arrived here on a pilgrimage, sent the security apparatus into a tizzy after he went missing, only to be found by police next day with a woman from  . Last year, Devsi Babu, a Pakistani national on pilgrimage went missing. His whereabouts are not known still. 
 
 Amritsar additional deputy commissioner police   said, “We will verify the matter and take action accordingly.”
 
 
