NEW DELHI: Describing his visit to Nepal as a reaffirmation of his government's "neighbourhood first" policy, Prime Minister   on Thursday said the engagement reflects the high priority he attaches to the age-old and friendly ties with the Himalayan nation. 

  Modi said as Nepal entered a new era, India would stay a steadfast partner. His visit will begin with a trip to the   temple in "province number 2" where he is to address a public rally that is expected to convey a unifying message in the context of the country's internal schism between Madhesis and hill people. 
 
  The location of the meeting in an area with a concentrated Madhesi population - seen as culturally close to India in terms of castes and traditions - is viewed as a reassuring message to the community that India is sensitive to their interests. The PM can be expected to speak of civilisational bonds between Nepal and India and pledge to deepen economic cooperation following Nepal PM K P Sharma Oli's recent visit to India. 
 
  Modi is on his third visit to Nepal. MEA spokesperson said PM after offering prayers at the Janaki temple - he will visit three temples during his visit - will address a public meeting at Baradigha. Modi is beginning his visit from the Madhesi Terai area. 
 
 In his statement, Modi said, "These high-level and regular interactions reflect my government's commitment to the 'neighbourhood first' policy, in consonance with the motto of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas'." 
 
  "Prime Minister Oli and I will have the opportunity to take forward our recent wide-ranging discussions in New Delhi on issues of mutual interest, and to advance our cooperative partnership," he said. "As Nepal enters a new era of consolidating gains of democracy... India will continue to remain a steadfast partner to implement its vision of ' samriddha Nepal, sukhi Nepali' (prosperous Nepal, happy Nepal)." 
 
  Connectivity and speedy implementation of existing projects will be the dominating themes of the visit, which won't see a rash of new pacts. In Kathmandu, he will have a dinner with Oli and two PMs will jointly inaugurate the 900 MW Arun III project. Other highlights will include Janakpur on the Ramayana tourism circuit, and next steps on the Raxaul-Kathmandu rail link. 
 
  On May 12 he will go to   and offer prayers at Shiva temple and return to Kathmandu and offer prayers at   temple. 
 
 
