BHOPAL: Owners of houses or buildings edging Sahpura Lake are living in mortal fear of losing their properties ever since geo-mapping report tagged structures illegal.

 Many in Windsor, Eden Garden, Amrapali, Silver Cress and Love Huts received notices from the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) six months ago. They fear any strong action now can have them up the creek. 
 
 Anurag Singh, a landowner at Windsor, who has given his land on rent, said, “I received notice six months ago. At that time we were asked to produce legal and property permission documents to building permission department of the BMC. However, after that they did not do any follow-up. We had thought everything was sorted out. ” 
 
 KL Gyanchandani, a resident of Love Huts, said, “If our property was not legal why BMC did provide us building permission. I have all documents with me, including the permission document provided by the civic body. If the building was not illegal 20 years ago how can the BMC all of the sudden announce it illegal.”
 
 He said, “We have been living here from past 20 years. The issue of property in green belt was raised, but every time it was said building which were given permission would not be affected. But neither the BMC stopped providing permissions nor protected us later.”
 
 SN  , resident of Love Huts Colony, said, “In 1998, the BMC had permitted only four colonies, and Love Huts was one of them and I was among first few to construct house here. During construction it was within 33 metre, but the BMC allowed. Later when the   (NGT) intervened, a court case was filed. During the hearing, the court said once buildings are permitted, they can’t be stopped so construction should be allowed and no new permission should be granted.”
 
 He said, “The court ordered an investigation. In the investigation, it was found earlier the land was empty, but after BMC had raised the land by 2 feet, colonies at Chunnabhatti road came under green belt as the water started entering this area.”
 
 “Even after knowing that it was due to the BMC blunder, they are harassing us by issuing notice and warnings of pulling down our buildings,” Gupta said. 
 
 
