VISAKHAPATNAM: A four-member team from the office of the Principal Accountant General ( ),  , will conduct the statutory audit of the accounts of   ( ), starting from Monday, for the next 45 working days. 

 This comprises of accounts audit for the 2015-16 and 2016-17 financial years, as well as compliance audit for 2014-15, 2015-16 and 2016-17. The recent   meeting approved the 2016-17 accounts of the urban body to pave way for this audit. 
 
 The auditing team will examine Vuda’s internal auditing process, tendering process, assets and liabilities, receipts and payments, and other processes.
 
 A Vuda official informed that the compliance audit assesses the overall objectives of Vuda and its compliance practices and protocol with regards to execution of its projects and initiatives. “Before the commencement of the auditing process, Vuda Board’s approval for the annual accounts is mandatory. Vuda Board had already approved the 2016-17 accounts. It will take a few more months to complete the accounting process of 2017-18 accounts,” said the official.
 
 The official further added that annual account audit for the years 2015-16 and 2016-17 will be the top priority of the auditing team. “If the compliance auditing takes centre stage, the auditing process may take more than 45 working days. Compliance audit deals with the degree to which Vuda follows the already established policies, regulations, laws, departmental rules, procedures etc. Compliance auditing may also cover a wide range of subject mattersm,” he explained.
 
 “Vuda had hired a chartered accountancy firm to look after the internal auditing process after the Principal Accountant General remarked about absence of an internal auditing team at Vuda in the past,” added the official.
 
 Vuda has been facing an acute shortage of accounts officers. Out of the sanctioned strength of four accounts officers, two have already retired. It has been learnt that another accounts officer will be on leave during the auditing process. Vuda, with its skeleton strength accounting team, now has to face the daunting task of providing all the information and assistance to the PAG team for the next 45 days.
 
 Expanding its horizons, Vuda is set on several new housing and infrastructural projects in the last few years in north coastal Andhra Pradesh. The annual budget of Vuda has also now reached the Rs 960-crore mark.
 
 
