In pursuit of   and the fast buck the contraband’s   offers, generations have perished in  , inhabited predominantly by woodcutter tribesmen in Tiruvannamalai. Incidents like the alleged encounter in the Seshachalam Reserve Forest of 20 men from Tamil Nadu in April 2015 are no deterrent. 

 The men in the villages in Jawadhu Hills took to cutting sandalwood trees in their own forests in the 1980s. Once the vestiges of sandalwood disappeared, they shifted their focus to Seshachalam Reserve Forest in the Eastern Ghats in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh to cut and smuggle red sanders. Agents and international smugglers lured them promising the sky. Unmindful of the risks involved, several thousand men went in search of riches. Those who were fortunate enough to evade the watchful eyes of security agencies indeed came back rich. This attracted more youngsters to smuggling.
 
 
  
  
 
 It is their physical endurance and familiarity with the terrain that make them the most sought-after workforce for the mafias. Lack of development, poor employment opportunity, low literacy rate and poor health indicators and poverty have make the mafia’s job easy. As years passed by, felling and smuggling red sanders has become a part of the lives of people from Jawadhu Hills.
 
 It is worrying that many youngsters fall prey to the mafia, said a government school teacher, adding that one of his students took to smuggling red sanders to buy a motorbike. In 2012, six schoolboys from the hills, aged between 15 and 18 years, were caught in AP forests. They were arrested along with two others from the region. The AP police handed them over to their parents with a warning that they could not assure safe return of the boys if they stepped into the forests again.
 
 Last April , the task force caught a 16-year-old school student with four adults from Jawadhu Hills in   reserve forest. "The arrest of the teenager is a tip of the iceberg," said an official in the task force, adding that scores of teenagers were involved in the smuggling of the contraband. "The youngsters are aware about the dangers of going into AP forests. But are ready to take the risk to lead a lavish life," said a school’s correspondent in the hills.
 
 Around 300 to 400 men from Jawadhu Hills are always involved in felling and transporting red sanders logs in AP forests. The number of men from the villages in Jawadhu languishing in AP jails is proof of this. As per data from Red Sander Anti-Smuggling Task Force, AP, of the 10,558 men who have been arrested and remanded for red sanders smuggling so far, 5,016 are from Tiruvannamalai and Vellore. "90% are from Jawadhu Hills," said an official attached to the task force. "We do not have a choice as there are no jobs for us. Many educated youth have also taken to smuggling of red sanders as they could not find jobs," said a postgraduate, adding that there were more than 200 unemployed degree holders.
 
 With the promise of paying `20,000 to `30,000 in two weeks, agents lure the youth. "Once they accomplish their task of loading the hardwood at designated points, they get `500 to `700 per kg of wood. If a group gets one tonne, the members earn `5 lakh – `7 lakh," said a smuggler. Getting caught, injured or killed is part of the game. "The family is paid money, if a person is killed. The agents also provide financial aid to bail out those who are arrested," he added.
 
 Police and forest officials in TN and AP allegedly collude with the smugglers and help them with tip-offs about movement of the task force. This has also led to the suspension of officials in AP. The arrest of former DSP Thangavel of prohibition enforcement wing, Vellore, in 2015 in connection with a murder and red sanders smuggling explains the nexus between smugglers and police officials.
 
 Not all in Jawadhu Hills are smugglers. Several hundred families migrate to Karnataka, Kerala and cities in Tamil Nadu in search of employment. They work as labourers in coffee and pepper plantations, at construction sites in metros and as daily wage earners in garments units in Tirupur and Coimbatore for about six months and return to take up farming for the rest of the year.
 
 Citing the National Family Health Survey 2015-2016, former Unicef child protection specialist officer, R Vidyasagar, said 18.7% of children below five are malnourished, 59% of the women are anaemic in Tiruvannamalai. It shows poverty and lack of livelihood as being the cause for the problems. "The scenario is worse in Jawadhu Hills," he said.
 
 
