THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A stringent clause in the IPS (cadre) rules could put an end to state police chief Loknath Behera holding the additional charge of director of vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB).

 Behera, who completed 11 months in the role, will soon be replaced as IPS (cadre) rules 1954 allows a single officer to hold two cadre posts only for a maximum period of 12 months.
 
 The state already has eight officers in the rank of DGP, including two cadre and two excadre posts, and four elevated to the rank by the state.
 
 While senior-most DGP,   is under suspension, the next in line is Behera. Another officer in the rank of DGP,   will retire from service in two months, while DGP N C   has expressed inconvenience to relocate after his central deputation. Thus the government is left with four choices – Rishi Raj Singh, A Hemachandran, N   and B S Mohammed Yasin.
 
 “It is not at all a good cadre management practice to appoint one officer in two key cadre posts when you have eight officers of the same rank,” former DGP and former chief of  , Rajan   said.
 
 It is learnt that the state has not taken prior sanction of the Centre in appointing Behera as VACB chief as well. Also, as per rule 10 of the cadre rules, cadre posts should not be kept vacant or held in abeyance for periods exceeding six months without the approval of the Centre. It is reliably learnt that the state has written to the Centre seeking that the post of vigilance director as the cadre post of DGP be removed, to make it a post that could be held by an officer of the rank of additional director general of police.
 
 Sources said that this move, despite the state having eight DGPs, would be suicidal. “The post of vigilance director was made a cadre post in 1998. In 2016, when the Centre held a cadre review, the state had asked for two more cadre posts of DGPs though it was not sanctioned. At this juncture, asking the Centre to de-cadre an existing post for political reasons would be a major blunder,” a top official said.
 
 It is learnt that the government was not keen to appoint any of the four officers of DGP rank as vigilance director, as it felt that none of them would be ‘loyal’ to the government.
 
