KOLKATA: Kolkata Knight Riders can consider themselves lucky. They are the only team among the four that qualified for the   playoffs which will be playing the Eliminator at their home ground on Wednesday. If they clear that hurdle,   will be back to player the Qualifier 2 at the   on Friday where they will be up against the losers of Qualifer 1.

 
 However, in spite of playing at ‘home’, KKR will not get home advantage — as far as the pitch is concerned — when they take on   on Wednesday.
 
 That is because the Eliminator will not be treated as KKR’s home match as the venue being a ‘designated’ one, the task of preparing the pitch will be handled by a ‘neutral’ BCCI curator. Although BCCI East Zone curator Ashish Bhowmick has been helping out on pitch preparation here from the start of IPL, it was CAB curator Sujan Mukherjee who had more say in the preparation work.
 
 But now Bhowmick will have his say as a ‘neutral’ curator. He has already identified pitch No. 7 on the Eden square as the surface for Wednesday’s game. The strip wears a different look with a fair bit of grass on it. Although a majority of KKR’s regular players skipped an optional practice session on Monday, the support staff — coach Jacques Kallis, assistant coach Simon Katich and bowling coach Heath Streak —had a good look at the pitch which was being watered then.
 
 The Eden tracks on which KKR played their seven home matches this season, had slowed down considerably towards the end of the group league stage. Searing over the past one month appeared to have dried out the pitch. As a result, the ball was not coming on to the bat, making life difficult for stroke-players.
 
 In the last league match here between the same rivals saw a low-scoring game with only six runs being scored on an average in the 32 of the 37 overs that the match lasted. It was certainly not good advertisement for T20 cricket. While RR were bowled out for 142 runs, KKR scored 145 for the loss of four wickets.
 
 True, Mumbai Indians did pile up 210 runs in the previous match, but it was possible mainly due to the individual brilliance of Ishan Kishan who used his feet well against spinners to make a 21-ball 62. KKR folded up for a mere 108 runs while chasing that target.
 
 “The pitch had played a role in it,” a member of the ground staff stated on Monday. Efforts are on to make the ball come on to the bat and proper watering of the pitch is necessary for that.
 
 Pitch No.5 has been designated to hold the Qualifier 2 on Friday and preparation work is already under way. However, with little time in-between the two matches, it remains to be seen whether fours and sixes will rain at the Eden Gardens.
 
