BHUBANESWAR: Experts and retired police officers have joined political parties in questioning the discrepancies in the reports of two forensic tests conducted on the   rape survivor who committed suicide last Monday. The initial report of the   ( ) here had found semen samples in the first test but the final report did not.

 They said, if a preliminary report had found semen samples of two persons on the garments of the victim, there could be no situation in which the traces would not show up in subsequent tests.
 
 After examining the undergarment of the girl, who was allegedly raped by four uniform-clad men in Kunduli village of   district on October 10, the SFSL had prepared a first report on October 18. It categorically mentioned the presence of different semen samples in her knickers.
 
 "When serologists, in the inter-divisional report or preliminary report, confirmed the presence of semen samples of two persons in the undergarment worn by the girl on the day of the alleged rape, how can that information go missing from the final report? It is obvious that there has been a deliberate attempt to hide facts. Accountability must be fixed for this slip," said retired deputy director of SFSL, Bimalendu Ray.
 
 The SFSL clarified that the inter-divisional report was not the final one submitted to the court of the investigating agency. "After careful and meticulous exhibition of the exhibits by a group of trained scientists through various methods and techniques including latest DNA profiling test, a final report was issued on October 23," said the SFSL director through an official release. But the lack of mention of any semen samples has surprised many.
 
 "The detection of semen samples of two different persons on the undergarment of the victim is a very important piece of evidence. The presence of the samples was first detected by application of ultraviolet lights and later grouping of the samples was done. How can they rule out such an important evidence in the final report? The whole matter is suspicious. There are too many loose threads," said retired DGP S N Tiwari.
 
 Retired police officers said this was a planned conspiracy to save the culprits. "Anything is possible in this country. Evidence can be created and destroyed. Each and every part of the government tried its best not to let the truth to be revealed," said former DGP Anadi Sahu.
 
 
