MUMBAI: To prevent   like last year, Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has mandated that supervisors open the   in the  , that too in front of two students. The board will send sealed packets of 25 and 10 question papers each to exam centres, so that there’s no need to open them even for making small bundles for distribution to each hall.

 Last year, five HSC question papers–Marathi, Secretarial Practice, Political Science, Physics and Mathematics and Statistics—were leaked through WhatsApp almost half an hour before the exams. TOI received copies of the papers too. There were similar instance in the previous two years as well.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Board officials have instructed exam authorities, except for the chief conductor of exams, not to use mobile phone at the exam centre. 
 
 Board officials, who have just finished chalking out the 583 centres for the HSC exams which begin on February 21, said they are now in the process of completing the seating arrangements. “We will have 25 students in each hall, so that a packet is opened in each classroom. In case that isn’t possible, there would be the option of using packets of 10 papers. The seal must be opened in front of two students as witness,” said  , in-charge secretary of Mumbai division.
 
 Until last year, question papers would be sent in sealed packs of 50 or 100 papers. The seal would be opened at the exam centre and bundles made depending on the number of students in each hall.
 
 “In the past few days, we have held two sessions each in south, central and western Mumbai, Thane and   to apprise exam conducting authorities of how technology is being used for malpractices. Apart from the authorities not using mobile phones, we have also instructed them to keep a strict check on any student who could be carrying mobile phone to the exam,” said Borse. “Students must try not to carry mobile phones because there could be a problem in keeping them outside the exam hall,” he added. 
 
 Students have to reach the exam centres before 11 am or 3 pm depending on the session. “We expect students to reach in time. In case there are some unavoidable circumstances when a student can’t make it in time, we will take a decision based on every case,” said RB Giri, in-charge chairperson of the Mumbai division.
 
 
