SHIMLA: Keeping in mind that chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is going to present budget on March 9, the   (CII),  , has advocated a comprehensive and composite plan to address the socio-economic issues with active participation of all stakeholders. The CII demanded that the state government should request Centre for extending rail connectivity, which will not only give boost to industry, but will also help in growth of tourism, which is yet another high employment generating sector in the state.

 “The state government should focus on strengthening ease-of-doing-business instruments, investment in infrastructure and harnessing of competitive advantages. This will go a long way in growth and sustenance of industry in the state beyond 2020, which marks the sunset of the incentive package that propelled industrialization in the state,” said Rajesh Saboo, chairman, CII,   State Council.
 
 He said Himachal Pradesh ranked 17th on the ease-of-doing-business parameters as per the latest rankings issued by the Department of Industrial Policy & Promotion (DIPP) with ineffective single window clearance making a huge dent. He said being a land-locked state, infrastructure was another big area of concern and the state government should invest as well as promote investments in this critical sector. Major roads traversing through the industrial corridors of the state should be converted to four-lane highways, he added. 
 
 The CII, Himachal Pradesh State Council, vice-chairman I M J S Sidhu said power, which used to be the unique selling point of the government and attracted industry to the state, was no more available on competitive rates. He said the state government should announce a more competitive power tariff with no further escalation for at least for the next five years. “This will not only help industry grow and flourish but will also help sustain the existing industry,” he added.
 
 The CII also called for a renewed and refreshed version of the state tourism policy with special focus on health and wellness, adventure and rural and orchard tourism.
 
 
