AHMEDABAD: A curious case of two missing votes in a   landed at the  . In this election, counting took place thrice and the results were different on each occasion.

 The case pertains to Sanjeli village in the tribal district of Dahod. During the gram panchayat elections in December 2016, a dispute arose on the day of the results, in Ward No. 8, where   and   were contesting the election. In all, 509 votes were cast.
 
 When counting took place, Mirza was declared the winner with 252 votes and Shaikh got 244 votes. Thirteen votes were declared invalid. Shaikh demanded a recount.
 
 Recounting resulted in a tie, with both Shaikh and Mirza getting 246 votes each and 17 votes were held invalid. There was a revelation this time around. Two votes were found to be missing. Another round of counting was bound to take place because of the revelation.
 
 In the third round of counting, Shaikh was declared the winner with 246 votes, and Mirza was found to have received 244 votes. There were 13 votes declared invalid and four voters chose the NOTA option. Two votes were still missing. Now, total number of votes came down to 507 from 509.
 
 Mirza, who was defeated after the third round of counting, alleged bias on part of the returning officer. He approached a civil court at Jhalod and challenged the election result. 
 
 He demanded another recount, under the supervision of the court. He also claimed that one vote, which was cast in his favour, was transferred to his rival. Before the court, the returning officer denied all charges and explained the position to the court.
 
 According to the returning officer, Shaikh got 246 votes against Mirza’s 244. While four votes went to NOTA, 13 votes were invalid. There is no case of missing votes but two would-be voters did not cast their votes after obtaining the ballot papers.
 
  Thus, election officials had issued two ballot papers which were not deposited in the box. Thus, only 507 ballot papers were found in the ballot boxes and there was no irregularity in the poll.
 
 After hearing the case, the civil court ordered a recount because the judge was of the opinion that the curious case of two missing votes was a serious issue.
 
 When the HC heard the case, it quashed the order for the recount on the grounds that the position was clear after the third recount, and directed the lower court to decide the case by May 31.
 
 
