NAVI MUMBAI: A 32-year-old  , who has over 10   against him, was recently arrested for   of three women in Navi Mumbai last month while driving around in the vehicle with an accomplice.  , who nabbed Akram Khan from his home town in Uttar Pradesh, said the cab aggregator had failed to carry out the mandatory police verification, else it would have known that he had been booked for 10 chain snatching cases in Mumbai earlier.

 Sub inspector Nitin Shinde, who is investigating the case, said, "Khan arrived in Mumbai in December and lived in a slum at Ghatkopar. When he saw an advertisement issued by Thane resident Soumil Gupte for driver’s job, he applied using a notary agreement of a fake address. After getting the job, he left the slum and would sleep in the car at night. Later, Khan and his accomplice, who is yet to be identified, robbed three women pedestrians, while he was driving the car.”
 
 After one of the women lodged a complaint on January 18, police obtained the CCTV footage of the crime spot. As the car’s registration number was caught on camera, police zeroed in on the vehicle’s owner, who said Khan had gone to UP to visit his wife.
 
 Shinde said, “The photocopy of Khan's driving licence that was with his employer had his UP address. Tracking his mobile phone location, we went to his home town and nabbed him with the help of UP Police on February 1. We recovered three gold mangalsutras collectively weighing 30 grams and have booked him under IPC Section 392 (robbery).” The Mumbai police will seek his transit remand for investigation.
 
 Shinde added, "Uber management seems to have failed to conduct police verification of the driver as he had submitted a fake address proof. Last week, I visited the Uber office in Thane and sought documents of the driver, but the staff said it would have to be obtained from Uber's head office in Kurla. I will now write to the Uber for the documents. Khan had been earlier booked for 10 chain snatching cases at Andheri, Powai and Vakola police stations. Khan and his accomplice would steal bikes and use them for snatching gold ornaments of pedestrians. Later, they would dispose of the bikes and return to UP with the booty.” 
 
 An Uber spokesperson said, “Within a few days of the driver partner getting access to the Uber app, we noticed inconsistencies in the information provided by him. As a result of this, Uber proactively removed the partner’s access to the app on January 19. Ability of driver-partners to forge their personal documents and police verification certificates presents a huge challenge for not just Uber and the cab aggregator industry but country at large."
 
 
