AGARTALA: It took a relentless two-and-a-half-year campaign to dislodge a party that had held sway for 25 years. With its focus on outgoing chief minister Manik Sarkar’s failure to implement the   and growing unemployment, political violence and corruption,   seemed to lay siege to CPI. 

 
 In the first direct fight between BJP and the Left, the saffron party wasn’t expected to pull ahead — until a few weeks ago. BJP, which did not have a representative even at the councillor level, won 35 of the 50 seats it contested for the 60-member assembly. Its ally, Indigenous People’s Front of   (IPFT), won eight of nine seats. 
 
 Election to one constituency was countermanded because of the death of the CPM candidate. The Left front managed to win just 16 seats, while its traditional rival,   didn’t win even one. With this, the Grand Old Party seems to have been pushed into near irrelevance in most of the north-east. The Left front’s defeat could mean a huge setback to its units in Kerala, where it is in government, and Bengal, which it ruled for 34 years till 2011. It also puts Left ideology in danger of becoming obscure in the country. 
 
  
  
 
 Compared to Assam and Manipur, which BJP has won over the last two years, Tripura offered a better show. Its vote share soared from 1.5% in 2013 to 43% this time. It holds a majority on its own. The Left front’s vote share, meanwhile, fell to 42.7% from 53.8% in 2013. BJP in-charge of north-east Ram Madhav described the victory as “revolutionary”. 
 
 He said, “This is not just a mandate for us. This is the desire of 37 lakh people for freedom. We will create a new Tripura where there will be no place for violence and hatred.” Apart from development and corruption, the BJP campaign focused on issues related to tribals, who constitute about one-third of the electorate, and offered them more autonomy. 
 
 In victory too, Prime Minister   continued his blistering criticism of Sarkar and the Left front, with a tweet that said, “While we are naturally delighted about the historic victory in Tripura, we will always have in our thoughts and prayers the BJP Karyakartas who lost their lives due to mindless Communist violence. 
 
 It is due to their courage that the party has reached where it has today.” He said the BJP was fully committed to the overall transformation of the north-east. “This region is blessed with immense potential to become apowerhouse of development. The central government has already undertaken numerous efforts for better growth and opportunities in the north-east,” he said. 
 
 Sarkar didn’t spend much time with the media and seemed to have accepted defeat. Sarkar, regarded as one of India’s ‘cleanest’ politicians because of his Spartan lifestyle, said, “People have voted us out of power after 25 years. We thank all those who voted for us.” He is leading from Dhanpur, his home constituency, by 5,000 votes. The CPM politburo, on the other hand, was scathing in its response. 
 
 It accused BJP of using money power to win the polls. CPM protested against the Election Commission’s decision to stop counting there and wants the winner to be declared. IPFT leader NC Debbarma added, “People have given the BJP-IPFT alliance their mandate and we have to abide by it responsibly.”
 
