NEW DELHI: A day after the   recommended to the   disqualification of 20   MLAs in the office-of-profit case linked to their appointment as  , deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said the MLAs have sought time from the President. They will convey to him how the EC had not given them a hearing and hence the decision was “biased” and not in keeping with the principles of natural justice. 

 He said they will appeal to the President to send the matter back to EC and allow the MLAs a hearing so that they can produce the evidence to show that they did not enjoy any office of profit. “The EC should give its opinion only after that,” said Sisodia. Articulating the position of his government and also the party line, he said the MLAs will spare no efforts to seek justice and will fight it out in court. “If we still don’t get justice, then we will go to the public,” he said. 
 
 Sisodia alleged that the EC’s decision was “the Centre’s attempt to stall governance in Delhi” by keeping the Capital in election mode. Chief minister Arvind Kerjiwal has so far not spoken in public on the matter and had only put out a tweet on Friday, choosing to be philosophical.
 
 At a meeting with   at his residence on Friday, the 20 AAP MLAs facing disqualification shared their concerns and firmed up their strategy. It is learnt that law minister Kailash Gahlot, among the 20 MLAs, explained the legal position. “The MLAs are wondering why they were denied a hearing by EC when its last order came on June 23, 2017, which said they were to be notified about the date of hearing,” sources said. The matter of parliamentary secretaries challenging the EC recommendations is listed in the high court for Monday. 
 
 “I am shocked as to how can the EC give this kind of decision without giving the MLAs a hearing,” Sisodia said later in the day, addressing a press conference. “In fact, the hearing on the main issue has not even started. The MLAs have not presented any evidence and neither has the EC asked them to present witnesses to prove their point. If a decision is happening without all this, then this is unconstitutional and undemocratic.” 
 
 Rejecting the allegation on office of profit, he said: “Let me tell you that none of these MLAs has got a rupee. They got neither office nor a vehicle. They use to spend their own money on travel and go to the field to get feedback and resolve problems of people related to various departments on the ground.”
 
 
  
 
 Meanwhile, Kumar Vishwas, a dissenter in the party, said he was “personally hurt” to see that the “very able 20 MLA have to face this crisis”. He said he has seen how hard they had all worked together to ensure that they won the elections. Vishwas claimed his opinions on cabinet formation and appointment of parliamentary secretaries had been disregarded. “I was told very clearly by the CM that taking a decision on these matters was the prerogative of the CM and I should not give my views,” he said. He reiterated that there is bound to be trouble if a “neta” becomes bigger than the party. 
 
 
