Ghaziabad: The launch of the   elevated road, which is expected to reduce travel time between Delhi and Rajnagar Extension by almost four times, has been put off further in the absence of a no-objection certificate from the Union ministry of environment , forests and climate change.

 Officials in the Ghaziabad Development Authority said work on the  , connecting Rajnagar Extension with UP Gate, was almost complete and they had hoped to get it inaugurated by chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath in January-end. Started in November 2014, the Rs 1,248-crore project was supposed to be completed by April 2017 but missed four deadlines. 
 
 Last month, GDA vice-chairperson Ritu Maheswari had said: “Work on the elevated road is almost complete and we hope to commission it by January-end. Moreover, we are trying to invite the chief minister for the inauguration.”
 
 GDA secretary   said on Thursday they had been repeatedly reminding the Centre about the NoC, but to no avail. “There are many cases pending with the committee and our turn is yet to come. The elevated road cannot be made functional without the NOC. As of now, our entire focus is on getting the clearance. We don’t know how much more time it will take,” he said.
 
 The elevated road has hit a stumbling block because a portion of the land on which it has been built is designated as Hindon bird sanctuary’s area. In July 2015, environmental activist   had sought the National Green Tribunal’s intervention, saying the GDA could not build the elevated road as a piece of the land came under the bird sanctuary.
 
 On January 4 this year, the tribunal had directed the Centre to decide within a month on the environmental clearance for the 9.3km long road. The tribunal had also asked the petitioner to provide details of the portion of the bird sanctuary land on which the road had been built. The GDA had earlier argued that since the elevated road was an extension of the highway, it need not take the clearance.
 
 The case will come for hearing next on February 20. “We have recently submitted our original application mentioning the constructions on various portions of the sanctuary land. The court will look into this aspect,” said Raghav, the petitioner.
 
 Since the original deadline in April last year, the time limit for the Hindon elevated road has been extended three times — October 31 and December 31, 2017, and January 2018.
 
 
