NAGPUR: Though she has no formal training in fine arts, 71 years old Prabha Bhaiyya’s first-ever exhibition at   displays 100 paintings bulk of which has been done by her over a span of three years.

 Inspired by the works of legends like Raja Ravi Varma, folk and tribal art and drawing from images of nature imprinted on her mind,   has used acrylic oil and water colours to bring them alive on canvas. “I used to paint intermittently,” she says, pointing to a painting she made 40 years back. She honed her skills at an eight-day workshop of tribal and folk art organized by South Central Zone Cultural Centre (SCZCC). “Lack of formal training restricted my work so I attended that workshop to learn the techniques,” she says.
 
 The effort is obvious in the Gond, Tanjore and   paintings which she has attempted and are on display here. Titled ‘Vanprastha se Rangprasth’, the exhibition shows painstaking efforts of Bhaiyya to master the craft. “I took to painting as a form of expression which also helped me pass my time. But once I started I could not stop myself and today I am addicted to it. I can’t sleep unless I have painted,” she says.
 
 Unlike many other artists who exhibit their art at the gallery only to showcase it and with little hope of seeing sales, Bhaiyya’s 25 paintings have already been picked up though the exhibition will go on till February 20. “Maybe people are buying because they hold me in high regard,” says Bhaiyya, who won a gold medal in state-level swimming competition two years back and is also a master of martial art skills. 
 
 Though she terms her paintings as a work of passion, Bhaiyya says she has priced them reasonably. “I have tried to cover the cost of material used and the creativity and effort that has gone into it.” Happy with the response, she says the exhibition has helped her show her art properly. “I used to call people home to see my work. My paintings used to remain stacked up due to lack of space.”
 
 But her dreams are far from fulfilled. “I believe in dreaming big and will hold my next exhibition at   in Mumbai,” she says.
 
 
