KOLKATA: Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation on Monday will identify the land to relocate the 40-odd shanty dwellers. The shanties are located on the New Garia-Airport Metro alignment, near  , below the flyover which connects Sector V to New Town.

 The civic body has been entrusted by the North 24-Parganas district magistrate with freeing the encroached land.
 
 
 Corporation mayor Sabyasachi   told TOI on Saturday, “On Monday, our officials will identify vested land in  , a stretch where these shanty dwellers can be relocated. We expect to be able to build their makeshift homes in three to four days. Eviction will start soon after.”
 
 Dutta added, “This bit of the work is simple. The shanty dwellers have told us they are willing to evacuate and resettle elsewhere.”
 
 Earlier, there were talks about settling the shanty dwellers under the New Town box bridge, where shopowners housed in three buildings (now being demolished) will be shifted.
 
 As the razing work of the buildings on the New Garia-Airport Metro route entered its
 
 third day on Saturday, civic officials were at ease that the complex job of removing encroaching highrises from project’s alignment was successful. So were those from   ( ), the implementing agency of the 34km corridor running via EM Bypass and VIP Road till the airport. RNVL executive director Rajesh Prasad said, “Not only the state government and the corporation, we are also thankful to the media for their role in highlighting the issues and making this possible.”
 
 The project was announced by chief minister   when she was the railway minister. But encroachment and land issues led to increased costs and time overruns, delaying the project by at least seven years.
 
 On Saturday, the second floor of the five-storey Oyo Hotels was razed with the help of pneumatic drill. Workers of ACC Excavation & Demolition, which has been engaged by the corporation to demolish the structure, said they hoped to dismantle to the first floor by Sunday. “The whole building should be demolished in another three or four days,” said a worker.
 
 Another four structures also came under the hammer. The biggest of them is Mohishgote Primary School. While most of the razing work of the smaller buildings is complete, the school’s façade needs to be pulled down. RVNL will put up barricades in the area in the next two days so that piling for the Metro construction can begin.
 
