JAIPUR: The state disaster relief force ( ) became equipped and self-sufficient in dealing with floods during the monsoon season.

 Learning from the past experience, the SDRF have now procured gadgets and instruments meant to be used in expediting flood relief and evacuate inundated areas during the floods.
 
 State home minister   on Monday flagged off the trucks carrying instruments meant to be used for relief for the divisional headquarters in the state. 
 
 During floods the state was earlier dependent on the Indian Army, National Disaster Relief Force and other agencies to expedite the relief work. The chief minister Vasundhara Raje had given a nod to purchase these equipment.
 
 Prior to the flagging the cadets of SDRF gave excellent demonstration on how in case of any calamity varying from flood to others they can respond with the help of ropes and other gadgets. 
 
 “We were earlier dependent on states like Tamilnadu or NDRF teams to help us in the flood relief. Now we have all the important equipments and thus can respond well to such crisis,” said Kataria while talking to the newsmen at the SDRF headquarters. 
 
 16 trucks carrying the equipments left for the divisional headquarters in the state. 
 
 “Usually we have a team of NDRF at   and in case of emergency we seek help from other states. Now we are self-sufficient as in such scenarios not only we can help ourselves but we can also visit neighbouring states for their assistance too,” said Kataria. 
 
 When contacted, BL  , additional director general( ), SDRF, said, “We have also completed the training of our men prior to the monsoon. Now, we have 16 trucks, 48 boats, 9 fibre boats, cutting machines, ample life jackets, various kinds of ropes, emergency helmets and other important equipments.” 
 
 Soni added that since every divisional headqurter now have sufficient equipments they can now respond fast to help the affected districts in case of emergency. 
 
 During monsoon last year the SDRF teams along with the NDRF had worked in the districts including Jalore, Sirohi and Rajsamand. 
 
 
