Allah ka ehsaan hai mera bacha bach gaya,” says a weary Raheem* (name changed), his eyes welling up with tears. Raheem and his wife have been fighting a lone battle, in the face of stigma and fear since November 2017, to get their eight-year-old son, Junaid*, justice . The class III student of Loyola School, Chandrayangutta, was sexually assaulted in school, repeatedly, and threatened to stay mum. Reinforcing the fact that child 
sexual abuse knows no gender — neither for the victim, nor for the perpetrator — little Junaid’s abuser turns out to be a 35-year-old woman, who was the sanitation worker or ‘ayyah’ at the school. 
 “Usko vo log pareshan karte, fir ek din upar se dhakka dedete, kisi ko kya pata chalta, bolte hadsa hai...” asks Raheem, shuddering. (They would have tortured my boy, and then pushed him off a building and said it was an accident... who’d come to know?”). When the incident came to light, the parents filed a case, at the   under the Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, section 3 and 4, and Section 506 of IPC for criminal intimidation. “The accused would enter the boys’ toilet on the pretext of fetching water, since there is no running water in the toilets. She assaulted the victim over four days, and when he said he would complain, she threatened him and burnt him with cigarettes,” says ACP Falaknuma, Syed Fayaz. 
 The boy, who suffered four-five such burns, did not reveal the ordeal to his mother, until the wounds became apparent to her, much later. “He was scared... just six months ago our close friend’s son was found murdered after being sexually abused. My son had seen the Youtube videos and Whatsapp messages talking of the murder of the other boy, and realised that he too was being abused the same way,” recounts Raheem, adding, “Usko khauff tha, kahi usko bhi maar na de...”
 “Based on the complaint we arrested the accused, though later, she was granted bail by the court. the case is under trial at the Nampally court,” says  .
 The school meanwhile rubbishes the entire episode as baseless and condemns the allegations by the parents. “It’s all cooked up stories. The ayah was a breastfeeding mother and did not do anything of this sort. The parents of the child are saying this in order to create problem for the school,” maintained the school’s principal TV Thomas, adding, “Ayyahs attend only to kindergarten kids. An 8-year-old boy will never need assistance in toilet! so it’s hard for us to believe such a thing even happened!” 
 
 
 
 This horrific case comes close on the heels of the sexual assault and murder of a 10-year-old boy, which rocked Old City just six months ago. The accused in that case was a 
 17-year-old who not only confessed to abusing 15 minor boys, but also said that he was a victim of assault himself. Evidently, young boys are as vulnerable as girls, but not enough is being done for their safety, say 
 experts. In fact, Child Rights Activist   goes as far as to say that child sexual abuse is more common among boys, but are reported far lesser.
 “Children are children. There is no question of gender here, because all are equally vulnerable. But medically, it may be hard to prove that a boy has undergone abuse, as the abuse may not always be penetrative. On the whole, for the society it’s easier to believe a girl was abused. when it comes to a boy, it’s far more difficult to accept, and if the abuser was a woman, then it will be much harder to believe,” he adds. As children, having to recount the details of the incident can also backfire in the court of law. “In the case of Junaid*, he was tired when asked to repeat the incident again and again in court. Children often find it hard to stand ground and reiterate the details of the assault, thus helping the predator go free many a times,” says K Devaki, Shaheen Women’s Resource and Welfare Association.
 
 
 
 Psychologist C Veerender says the onus is on parents to educate their boys, and girls, and look out for them. “Parents must not wait for the child to behave strangely. A culture of sharing must be inculcated from the start so that as and when they talk, even if its something so traumatising, they would spill it out,” he says. concepts like good touch and bad touch; teaching kids about private space, etc is mandatory, say experts. “Sexual abuse must be dealt with subtly yet tactfully in order to not make it a topic of giggling amongst students. Case studies, stories must be used so that an abused child can understand how to articulate it at the earliest,” adds  , vice-chairperson of the CBSE Schools’ Association.
 
 
