Invited to a   and already wincing at the thought. While social gatherings can be fun, they also place stress upon individuals to mingle, talk and network, too. And this is easier said than done. While a lot of folks out there find parties boring and cumbersome, others are not sure to go about introducing themselves and speaking to a bunch of people they may not know. Here are   icebreakers that can get you out of this rut…
1) Start with non-verbal language. A nod or a smile towards someone can out them at ease and ignite a conversation. Also, chew gum. It helps you get over any nerves that you have while in a room full of people.
 
 2) Go from easy to tough. First approach those in the party that seem least intimidating. Then work your way towards the people that make you feel more apprehensive.
 
 3) Make the introduction simple. State your name and extend your hand in a friendly shake.
 
 4) Use situational talk. Chat about things you see like what someone is wearing or their new phone, a movie that has just released or even a topic that people have been talking about in the news. It sparks a lively conversation. 
 
 5) Ask people to explain their jobs. This usually draws them into a conversation. 
 
 6) A huge   is to hand out a  . Say things like, ‘Hey I noticed your watch, it’s smart’ or ‘What a lovely ring’ or even ‘Nice shirt’. This will also be a straight-out indication if the person wants to talk ahead or not. If he or she mumbles a thank you and walks away, don’t waste your time any more. If he or she chats on, then take it ahead.
 
 7)   is another go-to topic and instantly thaws a frigid room. People love to talk about ‘that snowy experience’ or how they raced through the itinerary in two cities. 
 
 8) Be a good listener, too. It shows people that you respect what they have to say. 
 
 9) Avoid conversation killers. Red flags include asking people about their relationships, their exes as well as their political leanings. 
 
 10) Lastly, be light-minded and calm. Remember that feeling   will show up on your face. And perhaps there are so many at that gathering that are also uncomfortable in social situations, so there is nothing to feel bad about. Smile and relax.
 
 
