GANDHINAGAR: Eyebrows were raised over the   changing the   venue from  .

 Soon after   and his new cabinet were sworn in on December 26, Navsari was announced as the venue of the 2018 Republic Day celebrations. All the concerned departments and the local administration were directed to prepare for the two-day event, as the governor and the CM attend the state-level celebrations. 
 
 For several years, as CM, Narendra Modi had started holding celebrations of Independence Day and Republic Day outside the state capital of Gandhinagar, to mobilize the local administration for faster development works and greater political impact. After the state government decided to change the venue to Mehsana, it has become a talking point in political circles and the bureaucracy.
 
 A senior officer privy to the development, said, “Earlier, instructions were given for celebrations at Navsari, and only recently were we instructed to change the venue to Mehsana. There may be a political reason, but we are unaware of it.”
 
 A senior BJP leader, on being assured anonymity, said, “The CM has not held a major public function in Mehsana since taking over in August 2016 due to the Patidar agitation. However, the party managed to win five of the seven seats in the district, just as in 2012, despite the upheaveal. The CM may also want to establish direct control over Mehsana district, as most of the political work in the district is handled by deputy CM Nitin Patel. The CM wants to expand his own political base in North Gujarat and this public engagement can be a good opportunity.”According to the set practice, only the CM and the governor attend the state-level function, while other ministers attend celebrations at various different districts. Deputy CM Nitin Patel will now have to go to some other district. 
 
 Nitin Patel avoided making any specific comments on the choice of Mehsana as the venue instead of Navsari. “The government takes such decisions after proper consideration. There is no other issue,” Nitin Patel said.
 
 BJP won 12 of the 25 seats in North Gujarat (excluding Gandhinagar district) in the 2017 assembly elections. It had won 13 of 25 in 2012.
 
 
 
 While the BJP government has decided to celebrate Republic Day in Mehsana, it lost the municipality to the Congress as the Congress councillors who had earlier supported the BJP, withdrew support. The BJP is now struggling to regain power in the municipality.
 
 
