JAISALMER: Work hard silently and let success make the noise. If you have the passion to achieve your goal, then no one can stop you, said   from Barmer, who has been selected in  .

 Dhatarwal was given a warm welcome when he reached Veer Tejaji Hostel at Balotara in Barmer district on Monday. He addressed the students and gave them tips to achieve success. He was welcomed by various voluntary organisations.
 
 A resident of Baytu near Pakistan border in Barmer district, Dhatarwal scored 12th rank at all India level in ISRO exam.
 
 During school days, Dhatarwal would walk four kilometres bare feet from his village to school. Our house had no light so he would study in the light of chimney, said his father Bholaram. In Barmer and Jaisalmer, the temperature during summers goes up to 50 degrees and it is very difficult to walk on sand. Our financial condition was very weak due to which my elder son Kishan Kumar could not study and started working in a factory from young age. However, Dhatarwal was determined to study even under such tough circumstances.
 
 He wanted to become a scientist since childhood. 
 
 ISRO Central recruitment board, 2017, had organised an exam for 35 posts and Dhatarwal achieved 12th rank at all India level.
 
 Who says you cannot make hole in the sky, just throw a stone, Dhatarwal said, who has followed this principle in life.
 
 His farmer father studied till Class VIII, and his mother Ramu Devi is a homemaker, who is illiterate. Till Class VIII, Dhatarwal went to government middle school 4km away from his village. Later, he joined Navodaya School at Pachpadra. He got top rank in Class XII and won gold medal.
 
 His elder brother quit his studies and started working in a factory to support the family and continue Dhatarwal’s studies.
 
 Even today, there is no electricity in his village.
 
 The first place in ISRO exam was bagged by Sunder Sharma and second position by Kanwaljot Singh Sandhu.
 
 Dhatarwal gave the credit of his success to his parents and elder brother. Apart from them, teacher Chimnaram Jani guided him which helped him choose this route. Moreover, Dr Abdul Kalam has been his idol and he is eager to follow his principles.
 
 
