In Delhi recently,   tells us though he loves coming to the city to meet his family, he likes Mumbai better now. “I keep coming here for small breaks. It is always amazing to be in Delhi, but I love Mumbai now. I didn’t like Mumbai when I initially moved there, but after staying and working there, I don’t want to come to Delhi. Mumbai is different,” he says. 

  The actor did his schooling from Modern School, Barakhamba Road, and then went to Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur (SGTB)   in North Campus, where he studied only for a year, before moving to Mumbai to try his luck in acting. Though he could not experience the DU college life for three years, Arjit says he had already had his share of college fun in school. “I had most fun in school. Things that people do in college, I think I did them all in school. I finished school in 2010, and it seems like it was just yesterday. We had a strict principal, but I managed to bunk classes and school pretty often. We used to bunk school and go watch movies, usually the 9.30am show.”
 
  Sharing his favourite hangout spots, he says, “Though Connaught Place was the closest from our school, it was risky to go there after bunking school. We used to be in our school uniform, and people from the cinema hall would call up the school and inform them that there were students who had bunked school. So , would go to Satyam, in Nehru Place, and to Naraina to watch movies. Luckily I was never caught bunking school, but I was once caught once bunking classes.”
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  Arjit says, “I studied the most when I took my first Board exams, as they were a big deal. I thought it was equivalent to clearing an IAS exam. I used to study a lot, but my concentration was zero. I failed in my pre-Board exams, but managed to score more than 70% in Class X, so my family was very happy.” 
 
  Talking about his DU experience, Arjit says, “I hardly attended any classes in college. I would mostly be at Khan Market or at this café near Jesus and Mary College, since many of my friends studied there. I always wanted to go to North Campus, since my sister was studying in  , and I had heard that DU mein bahut masti hoti hai, bahut maza hota hai.”
 
  
  
 
  Like most Delhiites, Arjit believed that Delhi has the best Punjabi food, until he spent some days in Patiala. The actor shot in Patiala for his show ' ', and got to experience the food there. “I am a Punjabi from Delhi, but there was so much about Punjab and the language that I didn’t know. Shooting in the interiors of Patiala was a very different experience. I think even the audience would love how the show presents the culture of the place. I don’t think we have many shows that are shot or based in Punjab. We have stories about Punjabi families staying in Delhi and Mumbai, and a lot of shows about Gujaratis and Marathis. No wonder that people have a certain notion about Punjabis. We don’t just eat butter chicken all the time, as most people believe, we love sushi too!”
 
  
  
 
  After being a part of the popular show ' ', Arjit went to Indonesia to work for a show there. He is now back on the small screen with his new show, and says that his fans are still surprised that he decided to leave 'Kumkum Bhagya'. “I was emotionally attached to that show as I was working with the cast for three years. I was just 21, and everyone used to treat me like a kid and I learnt everything there. But after a point of time, I wanted to do something new. I had to move on to experience something else in terms of the character I was portraying. I personally did not feel that there was anything left for me to do in the show. When I quit 'Kumkum Bhagya', I was offered quite a few shows, but I didn’t want to do anything just for the sake of it. Most TV shows are women-oriented, but that is changing now, so I was looking forward to doing something different.”
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
