NAGPUR: Dr   is an avid nature lover who says he won’t accept status quo or ‘chalta-hai’ attitude when it comes to dealing with endangered species. Taking objection to the shoot-at-sight orders against a tigress, the young doctor has approached the high court to save the big cat which is being termed a ‘man-eater’. Dr Banait says it’s premature to label any cat a man-eater because chance encounters are not the animal’s fault.

 Excerpts from an interview...
 
 Q. This is the second time you are challenging the orders to shoot a wildcat.
 
 A. If the forest department is not following proper guidelines given by the authorities, it has to be brought to the notice of the judiciary. For the shoot orders given against T27C1 (Kismat), the National Tiger Conservation Authority’s (NTCA) guidelines and the standard operating procedures were not followed. And, even in this second case, the   guidelines and the SOPs are not being followed to correctly identify the tigress and then shoot it.
 
 Q. If villagers are connecting human deaths to the tiger, why is there an objection to calling it a man-eater?
 
 A. The NTCA clearly says that a differentiation should be made between ‘human kill’ due to chance encounters and ‘habituated man-eaters’. As most of our forests outside protected areas are surrounded with villages, the probability of chance encounters is very high. Further, tigers often use agriculture/sugar cane fields and similar cover while feeding on livestock or blue bull. This may also cause lethal encounters with human beings which are only chance encounters and not caused by a ‘man-eater’. Such animals should not be declared as ‘man-eaters’. 
 
 Q. Families of victims may see this kind of court intervention as protecting an animal that killed their precious ones.
 
 A. I am for eliminating the habitual man-eater but totally against any action against tigers of ‘chance encounters’ for which humans are to be blamed. My heart cries for the death of any individual. At this moment, it’s not clear if it is a tiger, tigress or leopard that is responsible for the deaths. There are two tigers and one leopard in the same area. Please don’t convict the tiger before the court’s verdict. Even murderers get a chance of trial in the court, the voiceless animal should also get a chance and I am being a voice for it, to fight the case in the court and that is the reason of my slogan ‘Speak Up Now’. 
 
 Q. 10 villagers have been killed by tigers in   division of Yavatmal. Do you think these deaths could have been avoided?
 
 A. These deaths maybe chance encounters as the victims may have stepped into the tiger’s territory. How can the tiger be blamed for this? These deaths could have been very well avoided had there been strict restrictions on the villagers to not enter the forest area. Most importantly, radio collaring and proper monitoring of the tigers is necessary for preventing any man-animal conflict.
 
 Q. But who will be held responsible in case of a further tiger attack?
 
 A. The forest department... for allowing the illegal entry of villagers in the forest and not keeping strict vigilance. After eliminating this tigress if there is still another chance encounter who is to be blamed then? After issuing so many shoot at sight orders, encounters are still taking place. Is the forest department going to eliminate all the tigers in the wild?
 
 Q. With shrinking forests and habitat destruction, conflict is bound to flare up. Any solutions?
 
 A. I am fighting for this solution in the court also with my PIL that all tigers should have a radio collar. This is the best solution to solve all the man-animal conflicts in the future. There should be solar fencing done on the periphery of the jungles in the farm lands and elsewhere rather than electrifying the fences with stolen electricity from high tension electrical poles. Problematic animals should be relocated and the   forest department should have a proper team of trained experts, veterinarians, tranquilisers, trackers, elephants etc. Forest department should not depend on private individuals and NGOs to carry out their work. They should have a well-equipped team and infrastructure.
 
 
