JABALPUR: A minor girl, student of class VII girl hanged herself to death after her parents were beaten by a 17- year-old youth and his father who too live in the neighbourhood. It was alleged that the accused boy was harassing the girl for past sometime.

 The deceased identified as  , a resident of Burn Company Quarters, was forcefully given a mobile phone by the accused youth on Saturday while she was returning from coaching class at around 7 pm. On reaching home, the girl informed her mother about it. Her mother asked her not to worry stating that once her father returns home, they will go to the boy’s house and talk to his parents.
 
 The girl later went to a nearby temple and on return saw the youth standing outside her house. Her father Rajeev Suhane had also reached home at the same time and her mother Anju briefed him about the incident. Both Rajeev and Anju tried to talking to the accused and convince him to not to harass the girl.
 
 Soon, the youth’s father   also reached there and the accused youth along with his father started misbehaving with the girl’s parents. They thrashed Rajeev and Anju. Seeing this girl went inside her house and hanged herself, using her dupatta. 
 
 Rajeev and Anju called the neighbours for help and they broke open the door to find the girl hanging. She was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared her brought dead. 
 
 “We lost our daughter due to the harassment of the neighbourhood boy. The youth is not a minor, but an adult and an alcoholic. The youth and his family members pelted stones on us, while we were taking our daughter Khushi to the hospital,”   told TOI. 
 
 Assistant sub-inspector of police, Alp Naryan Mishra, who is investigating the case said, “A case of abetment to suicide has been registered against the father-son duo. The age of the accused youth is being verified. He has informed that he was born in September 2000. If his age is correct as per his statement then we will produce him before juvenile justice board.” 
 
 This is the second such incident reported from   in a fortnight. Earlier, unable to bear the ignominy after a video of her father being forced to publicly kneel down went viral and reached her college mates, the girl tried to commit suicide. Six people were later booked in the case. 
 
 
