GANDHINAGAR: The   government has decided to conduct a   of all school  , auto-rickshaws and schoolbuses. The audit that will be conducted by the state transport department which will also fix the responsibility on schools for ensuring that records of the vehicles and   are available when needed. In the absence of these documents, it becomes difficult to reach parents of children during emergencies.

 The goverrnment decided to conduct a safety audit after recent incidents in which schools vans were burnt in Surat, Vadodara, Ahmedabad and other places. Further, safety of children travelling in unauthorized vehicles is also a major concern. Some of these vehicles had caused fatal accidents — one such tragedy took place in Ahmedabad a few months back. 
 
 The state transport department will take action against the schools if they do not maintain vehicles’ records and check unauthorized vans and  .
 
 Vipul Mitra, additional chief secretary ( ), transport department, said that after the safety audit, the government will take action against the owners of the vehicles who are found not maintaining safety standards. The validity of CNG and PNG kits fire safety kits will also be checked. “Vans and vehicles carrying more children than the prescribed limit will be punished,” Mittra said.
 
 He further said that a formal order in this regard will be issued to all district RTO officers. 
 
 “They will launch a drive in the area falling under their jurisdiction to conduct safety audit of all school vehicles,” Mittra said. “It has also been noted that many schools don’t provide transport facilities or keep records of the private school vans, autos and buses carrying children to the schools.” 
 
 “In co-ordination with the state education department, all the District Education Officers (DEO) will be instructed to ask schools to provide transport facilities where the number of children was more than 500 students or authorise vehicles that can carry schoolchildren to,” Mittra said. 
 
 He further said tht as an alternative, the schools will be asked to authorise vehicles that can carry children to their schools and maintain records of drivers and children coming particular vehicles. 
 
 “Schools will also have to learn road safety lessons,” Mittra said. 
 
 “They will have to maintain records of all children using the private vehicles. The transport department will ask the education department to direct all DEOs to take action against the schools not maintaining safety standards,” he said.
 
 Further, non-authorised vehicles carrying children will be punished. “The state road safety council will formally issue long-term guidelines for this,” Mittra said.
 
 
