NEW DELHI: The need to build strong narratives to counter “divisive” political and social forces so that saffron mobilisation ahead of next year’s Lok Sabha polls does not lose momentum figured in a discussion between   leaders and   functionaries here on Monday. 

 
 The meeting, described as scheduled and routine, saw a discussion on issues relating to the need to unify society, as the Sangh Parivar sees it, against caste-based challenges and issues such as criticism that the government had failed to protect Dalits and harboured a monochromatic vision. With the debate set to intensify as the next round of state polls nears, the meeting discussed concerns aired by Sangh organisations whether the narratives the Parivar believed in were being adequately promoted. 
 
 Senior RSS functionaries made several suggestions during the meeting of the Sangh, its affiliates and BJP. RSS joint general secretary Krishna Gopal chaired the meet in which BJP chief   and five cabinet ministers were present to deliberate upon polices of the   government, including formulation of the much-awaited new education policy. 
 
 “Senior functionaries of RSS said there was a challenge in view of growing debates like tolerance versus intolerance, nationalism and extremism, and casteism which needed to be countered strongly,” a source said. He said there was a concern about BJP’s adversaries consistently trying to paint a “false” image of BJP-RSS.
 
 Another round of deliberations is scheduled on Tuesday which will see economic issues being discussed and this might include issues raised by Sangh outfits like Swadeshi Jagran Manch and Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh which have opposed decisions such as privatisation of  . 
 
 The debate over employment may also figure. The meeting was held over several rounds between ministers and representatives from RSS’s Sewa Samooh (social work wing), Shiksha Samooh (education wing), Samajik Samooh and Vichar Samooh (ideological issues wing). Apart from Shah, Vinay Sahasrabuddhe, Ram Madhav and Ram Lal were present along with ministers Thaawarchand Gehlot, Rajyavardhan Rathore, J P Nadda, Maneka Gandhi, Mahesh Sharma and Prakash Javadekar.
 
