PANAJI: The directorate of mines and geology has renewed 270 permits for sand extraction in five clusters across the state. The department, which granted 458 permits in 2017, has extended till the end of January the last date for such renewals. The government will allow the extraction of around 600 cubic metres of sand. 

 Deputy director of mines   said that the five clusters are in the Chapora, Mandovi, and Tiracol rivers in   and   and   in South Goa. She said the renewal of such leases generates revenue of around Rs 1 crore after pending dues are collected. 
 
  told TOI that the department reserves the right to limit, modify, or alter the extraction limit fixed individually or collectively within the clusters mentioned. “Since the mineral belongs to the state of Goa and is an important material for construction activity, the state reserves its first right over sand extracted by the permit holder which may be required for development activities in the state,” she said. “This permit may be revoked, suspended, or kept in abeyance by the department for any reason whatsoever and the extractors shall have no right whatsoever to agitate or call in question the act of the department.”
 
 The mines department said that the extractor shall prioritise for employment the labour force from the villages on either side of the rivers. Only if sufficient labourers aren’t available would the extractor be allowed to employ some from elsewhere in the district. Only as a last resort would extractors be allowed to employ labourers from outside Goa. “A permit holder may not use any mechanical device for extraction of sand in the cluster,” she said.
 
 The conditions for the permit also state that extraction shall be liable to be stopped as and when required by the competent officer without notice, and that the holder shall not have any right for compensation. The government also reserved the right to restrict extraction activities from June 1 to September 30. 
 
 The mines department also warned that any illegal extraction would entitle the department to take all necessary action, including suspension or cancellation of permit.
 
 
