Tuticorin: The second drinking water supply scheme for Kovilpatti municipality, which will benefit 99,700 people was inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Friday evening. 

 Speaking on the occasion, Palanisami said that the scheme completed at a cost of Rs 82.81 crore is a dream come true for the people of the town who have been waiting for it for four decades. The chief minister also said that purified drinking water would be supplied to the three assembly segments in neighbouring Virudhunagar district in about a month and a similar project benefiting as many assembly segments in Kovilpatti region would be dedicated to the public in six months.
 
 Stressing on the importance of water, he said that every drop is precious and that people should take a pledge to preserve and treat it as precious as gold. “Water is the key source for prosperity,” he said. 
 
 He also highlighted the efforts taken under his pet project Kudimarathu (desilting tanks) and efforts to build check dams across rivers and streams to prevent rainwater from flowing into the seas.
 
 “The government has earmarked Rs 1,000 for construction of check dams so that water during the rainy season will recharge the underground water table. Not a drop of water should be wasted. The government is planning and working in this aspect,” he said.
 
 In a veiled dig at actor Rajinikanth without naming him, Palaniswami said, “People who are in their last leg are talking about interlinking of rivers,” and recalled the legal battles fought by late chief minister Jayalalithaa over the state’s rights for water.
 
 “New political leaders are mushrooming and so are new political parties,” Palaniswami said and questioned what they have done till date.
 
 The chief minister also made optimum use of his more than 30-minute speech to highlight the achievements of the state government under his leadership. 
 
 On allegations against the government by opposition parties, he said the state government is straight forward and showing growth on all fronts. 
 
 He said agricultural production has gone up, percentage of youth stepping into higher education institutions nearly doubled to 40.94 per cent. 
 
 The chief minister also recalled how the AIADMK government had won national awards in transportation, electricity, agriculture, education and healthcare sectors.
 
 Earlier, along with water scheme, Palaniswami also inaugurated projects and buildings that were completed at a cost of Rs 127.24 crore. 
 
 The projects included 129 buildings that were constructed at Rs 45.42 crore, foundation stone for 144 schemes and buildings to be completed at Rs 47.79 crore and assistance to beneficiaries under various government schemes.
 
 Information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju and other leaders presented a sword to the chief minister. District collector N Venkatesh also spoke.
 
 
