COIMBATORE: D Muruganandam, 35, and  , 29, still vividly remember the events leading to their marriage in 2013. Both eloped from their homes in   and came to Coimbatore to save themselves from their families who were against their marriage.

 Muruganandam and   were in love for three years then. “Sameena used to come to her aunt’s house which was next to my house. That’s how and when I met her,” said Muruganandam. When they reached Coimbatore, Thandhai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) became their safe refuge. Members of the   performed their marriage.
 
 “Today we are happy together. Even if we have small quarrels at home, they last for 10 minutes,” said Sameena. The couple now provides refuge to those who had to leave their homes for wanting to marry outside their caste or religion. “Today our only relatives are members of TPDK,” says Muruganandam.
 
 Muruganandam and Sameena were among the inter-caste or inter-religious couples assembled on Tuesday evening to celebrate Valentine’s Day at Periyar Padippagam, Gandhipuram. Amid opposition for Valentine’s Day celebrations from Hindu outfits, TPDK has been organizing Valentine’s Day celebration for the past 10 years. 
 
 Amid the crowd, there were also couples whose families accepted their marriages. S Manikandan, 29, and B  , 24, said their families had no problems about the inter-caste marriage. “Our parents just verified about each other’s background and gave their nod for our marriage,” they said.
 
 Speaking about the event, K Ramakrishnan, district general secretary of TPDK said the organization has been conducting the event for the past 10 years. “We bring the couples who have married outside their caste or religion to show the world that such couples are happy and wealthy, as against the common perception that those who do love marriages are doomed to fail in life,” he said.
 
 Ramakrishnan said the organization has performed 4,000 such marriages in the past 15 years. “In the past year alone, we had performed 400 such marriages,” he said and pointed to a young couple who had come to the Padippagam to get married.
 
 “When a couple comes to us, we check their birth certificate to confirm their age, their community certificates to confirm that it is an inter-caste marriage and their address proof. Only then we give them a marriage certificate, with which they can get registered at a registrar office,” said Ramakrishnan.
 
 
