Mumbai:   has launched a major campaign to maintain the momentum on debit-card spends in smaller cities. The objective is to get cardholders to use their debit cards to spend at stores rather than at the  .

 According to Porush Singh, Mastercard’s division president for South Asia, the stage is set for a shift in spend from cash to debit cards. The government recently announced a waiver in   (MDR, or the charges banks deduct from card payments) on small transactions. Additionally, the number of   (PoS, or card swipe machines) have doubled to close to 30 lakh. The number of active users has gone up sharply too. Also, more merchants are now keen to accept card payments as they get more tax compliant following the introduction of   ( ).
 
 Singh did not give the budget for the campaign but said that it was big and the card company has signed on actor Irrfan Khan to create a personal connection with consumers in metros, tier-2 and tier-3 cities. Unlike in the past when cards were positioned as aspirational products, the new ‘Khul Gayi Life’ campaign is around convenience and everyday use. The card company is also launching a ‘use it and win it’ joint promotion with the   (CAIT).
 
 According to   data, the share of   usage in PoS terminals alone has doubled to close to 30% compared to below 15% prior to demonetisation (remaining at ATMs). “We are seeing more growth in tier-2 and tier-3 cities and in debit. That is the reason why we have done this campaign, which is more about daily use. That is why we have a recognisable face in these cities,” said Singh.
 
 While debit card transactions in December did see a marginal drop compared to the post-demonetisation peak in December 2016, Singh says that these cards would continue to see growth from here. “It is only now that the government has announced the waiver of MDR. Also, people forget that it has taken 40 years to achieve 14 lakh PoS terminals, while the next 14 lakh came in less than a year.”
 
 According to Singh, the shift to debit card will improve the creditworthiness of non-salaried individuals. “When people start using debit cards, there will be a good opportunity for banks to do much informed credit underwriting.” With close to 80 crore debit cards, the number of cardholders is unlikely to rise substantially, but what will improve is the usage. “We expect to see less of a growth in number of debit cards but more of usage with an increase in the number of merchants willing to accept cards as they file their returns and get more compliant,” said Singh.
 
 
