MUMBAI: A day after the TOI report on schools being charged an exorbitant Rs 80,000 to host sporting events at  , the municipal corporation clarified that it was unaware that the trust maintaining the public ground was demanding such high rates. 

 The   had issued a termination notice to Malabar Hill Citizens' Forum last year over various alleged illegalities like construction of private structures , which then moved the Bombay high court. 
 
 "The Malabar Hill Citizens' Forum is charging as per their own will and the BMC is not responsible for the same," BMC wrote to TOI. "The charges recovered for sporting activities on any civic ground is very nominal. The Malabar Hill Citizens' Forum is charging an exorbitant amount." Civic officials said the BMC used to charge schools Rs 11,000 to host their annual sports day on any public ground. On January 19, the charges were revised to Rs 178/day for civic grounds measuring up to 5,000 sq m, and Rs 355/day for grounds measuring more than 5,000 sq m. "The BMC has initiated procedure of taking over Priyadarshani Park and accordingly a termination of agreement notice has been issued to the forum," said the letter. The 65,000 sqm   has been set up on reclaimed land. 
 
 The trust, which has approached the HC, said the money recovered from schools for the public space was used only for development works and maintenance of the park. B A  , president of the Malabar Hill Citizens' Forum, said, "Our's is a community park and is open for all for free. We do charge Rs 30,000 for sporting events for providing two mandaps, 100 chairs, electricity, sound systems and other civic amenities. All charges are accounted for and used for the maintenance and development work of the park. We deny all the allegations. The matter is in court, let it decide."
 
 Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh had raised the issue at the civic standing committee meeting on Wednesday. He said that he had received complaints from schools in his ward at   that they had paid Rs 80,000 to the trust to host their sports day at Priyadarshani Park.
 
