Nagpur: The Bhandara forest officials, with the support of locals NGOs, are making determined efforts to reunite two 25 days-old leopard cubs separate from the mother. 

 On April 4 afternoon, the two cubs were rescued from the sugar cane farm of Ramkrishna Hathzade in Navegaon, 75 kms from Nagpur. The farm is on the fringes of Koka Wildlife Sanctuary.
 
 The two cubs, a male and a female, are virtually fighting a battle for survival in the wild or lifelong captivity due to sheer carelessness on part of Hathzade.
 
 According to forest officials, the cubs and leopardess were first seen on March 22, when Hathzade partially burned bagasse residue left in the farm after cutting sugar cane. Incidentally, Bhandara honorary wildlife warden Rajkamal Job who was present there stopped Hathzade.
 
 Shockingly, after a break Hathzade continued cleaning operation of farm by burning the residue. According to Shahid Parvez Khan of Save Ecosystem And Tiger (SEAT), Bhandara, the cubs were with mother till April 4, when huge fire erupted in the farm.
 
 Bhandara deputy conservator (DyCF) Vivek Hoshing says, “Fortunately, our men rescued the cubs and saved them from getting charred. Now all out efforts are being made to reunite them with the leopardess.”
 
 A six-member team has been constituted to take all out efforts to reunite the cubs. “We are taking instructions from Dr Ajay Deshmukh, who is wildlife vet in Western Maharashtra, and has reunited leopard cubs in 50 such operations,” said Hoshing.
 
 However, it’s been 7 days that the leopardess has not taken the cubs despite visiting the spot. Dr Deshmukh says, “It is a positive sign that the mother is at least coming near the cubs. There may be some varied reasons, may be presence of a male, why she did not take away the cubs.”
 
 “In Junnar, in 50-odd operations we carried out, the mother takes away cubs even after 8-10 days. We should not hurry and wait for even 15-20 days,” Dr Deshmukh said.
 
 According to Khan, the cubs are being fed goat milk, lactogen and ORS. Their health is also being monitored daily by veterinarians. “Camera trap pictures show the mother is visiting the place and a day before she was close to the cubs kept in plastic crates. Unfortunately, she did not take away the cubs,” he said.
 
 As a matter of precaution, the forest department has replaced normal camera traps with infrared cameras (IR), which will not flash and distract the leopardess.
 
 Khan said a machan has been built near the spot from where monitoring is being done by volunteers. A natural environment is being given to the cubs.
 
 In the last two years, six sloth bears that had delivered cubs in dilapidated village homes were safely reunited in the wild in Bhandara.
 
 
