PATIALA: Tightening the noose around illegal constructions in the city, the   (PMC) has sealed around 30 illegal buildings in the city. To pursue the task and keep a tab on defaulters, PMC has formed special teams. The corporation is also carrying a survey to identify unauthorised buildings, especially commercial units, which are violating the norms and PMC guidelines.

 PMC officials said that a large number of complaints of illegal constructions in the city were being received. “In a period of one month, the corporation has seized 30 buildings that were violating the building by-laws,” they said.
 
 
 “Besides this, a blatant violation complaint against the city builders was pending. These builders were neither taking any clearance of their building plans nor they were paying the building fee to the PMC,” the officials added One of the senior officials in the PMC said that mushrooming of unauthorised buildings within the MC’s jurisdiction was a serious issue and it had to be dealt with an iron hand. “Around 70% of the complaints being received by the PMC were of violations of building norms and illegally constructed buildings,” the officials said.
 
 A senior MC official said illegal structures in the city were increasing by the day. “We decided to curb them and so the decision to seal all those buildings was taken on priority”, the PMC official added.
 
 Meanwhile, going strictly over illegal constructions in the city, the MC has already constituted an independent five-member flying squad of its engineering department to carry out a survey to identify unauthorised buildings. However, no official of the building department has been included in the squad. “Several complaints against the officials of PMC being involved hand-inglove with illegal builders were also landing the office of the corporation,” the officials said.
 
 “Now the building inspectors have been directed to submit a list of unauthorised constructions under their areas so that a strict action can be taken against them,” they added.
 
 The officials of the building department have been directed to keep a tab on new commercial buildings, besides ensuring that building by-laws are being followed.
 
 To streamline the working of the building department, the certificates of change of land use and new commercial building plans will be issued in a transparent manner, and the building inspector will be held responsible for any violation.
 
 “This tab on the illegal construction will not only prove beneficial for the city residents but also be economically beneficial for the PMC as it will raise its revenue,”  , who is a municipal town planner.
 
