KOLKATA: The ruling   is all set to turn a legal disadvantage to its political advantage. With the Supreme Court directing the state government against issuing gazette notification on the candidates winning unopposed till it takes up the matter for hearing on July 3, Trinamool leaders are trying to use this 43-day window from now to woo independents and rival winners to its fold before boards at all three tiers of the panchayat system - zilla parishad, panchayat samity and gram panchayat - are formed. 

 
 The SC order won't come in the way of the delivery system in the meantime, because the tenure of old boards is going to end in August. The window of more than one month is proving too long for the opposition parties, particularly the  , whose winning members will have to "withstand the pressure" for all these days. The challenge for the opposition parties during this time is to hold their flock together.
 
 Trinamool's immediate target is to get into its fold most of the 1,830 independents all over the state, particularly in West Midnapore (159), Purulia (100) and Jhargram (63), where the ruling party's performance has been below expectation. Trinamool organisers have also reached out to Birbhum on Monday to explore the scope of poaching some of the 63 BJP gram panchayat members in Mayureswar and Mohammadbazar blocks that went to elections on May 14, and also drive a wedge between the four BJP panchayat samiti members.
 
 Taking the cue from chief minister Mamata Banerjee who told the day after the results that a lot of the elected independents and BJP representatives are keeping in touch with her party, Trinamool's Midnapore unit president   said: "Many independents in our district belong to our party. They decided to contest on a free symbol after being denied a TMC ticket. We will take them back to our fold during formation of the boards."
 
 The party may face challenge in this mission in Purulia or Malda where the number of opposition winners is much more than that of the independents. In Purulia, BJP has won 645 gram panchayat and 142 panchayat samiti seats;   has won 153 GP seats and   150 seats. BJP is under pressure in Birbhum where opposition strength is less. "Our representatives are under tremendous pressure. Our main challenge is to protect them. Chances of poaching are less in our district, because our members had to struggle hard since the day of nomination to the result day against threats and violence by Trinamool," said BJP Birbhum general secretary Kalosona Mandal.
 
 The sabhadhipati of the Trinamool-run Birbhum zilla parishad, Bikash Roy Chowdhury, said: "Let us wait for the SC hearing on July 3. Some of us, including myself, have also got winner's certificates."
 
