CHENNAI: While many Opposition leaders have expressed shock over the Supreme Court order in the Cauvery dispute and accused the   government of not presenting its case properly, some say off the record that it would be beneficial for the state if the order is implemented in letter and in spirit. 

 Almost all party leaders TOI spoke to appreciated the fact that the judgment has mandated the Centre to follow the order and monitor the release of water every month. But the leaders are not sure if the Centre will ask Karnataka to release water every month as the state is facing an assembly election in a few months and the stakes are high for the  . 
 
 The DMK and its working president   slammed the   government for giving up the state’s rights and wanted an all-party meeting to be convened to discuss the fallout. But party leaders in delta districts want the Centre and Karnataka to release water as per the order as it will be sufficient for the farmers. Karnataka had not been releasing the required water so far. 
 
 The Supreme Court asking both the riparian states not to enjoy ownership of the river has also enthused the party leaders, though they have not commented on it officially. 
 
 “We will be happy if Karnataka obeys the SC order and releases water to Tamil Nadu periodically. On its part, the state government must spruce up the channels and canals from the Mettur dam and construct check dams in the Cauvery within the state,” said a senior DMK leader in the delta region. There are many positive aspects in the court order which will benefit our state, said the leader. 
 
  minister Anbumani Ramadoss said the solace in the order is the deadline given to the Centre to set up the  . “Last year, both the Centre and Karnataka did not obey the Supreme Court order on release of water and setting up of the board. Though the court’s tough stance gives us some hope, being an election year, it is doubtful if Karnataka or the Centre will ensure proper release of water to Tamil Nadu,” said Ramadoss. 
 
 CPI state secretary R Mutharasan said lowering of water allocation will definitely affect farmers. However, if the assured quantum is released as per the order, it will be of great benefit to the farmers.
 
 
