KOCHI: A day after former coach   had accused Sandesh Jhingan of being alcoholic,  ' present coach   has come in support of the team's captain. James said he had a discussion with Jhingan about the accusations made by Meulensteen and suggested he would buy nothing of that especially based on Jhingan's performance in the match against FC Goa which Blasters went on to lose 1-2 on Sunday. 

 
 "I haven't read all things. I did speak to Sandesh (about the news). I thought he (Jhingan) played well. I wasn't expecting anything more from him (in this game). In fact, he's improved. That's what we wanted from the captain in terms of performance. See, If I wouldn't have known about the news before the game, I wouldn't have known after it."
 
 Asked about how much of a disciplinarian he is as a coach regarding matters such as drinking and partying, James suggested he is not the sort of person who would advocate his players to completely stay from alcohol but would rather be someone who trusts his players to look after themselves well. 
 
 "I cant talk about the previous regime because I wasn't here. I am going to set up an environment different to that. With regards to drinking, I trust the players to look after themselves because if they don't, they are not going to play.
 
 'We have a very good communication level at the club. At the end of the day, if there is a problem with it, we will find out. With the way we train, we will find out. It is a trust policy."
 
 James's backing of Jhingan comes after Meulensteen in an interview to a football website had accused the defender of being 'unprofessional'. The Dutchman said Jhingan had been up partying and drinking until 4 AM in the morning after Blasters lost their match against FC Goa 2-5 earlier in the season.
 
 About the match, James said he was disappointed not to have been awarded a penalty. "I thought we played well. I'm angry about the result. We should have got a penalty when the scores were level and we might have gone on to win," said James after his team lost a match for the fourth time this season.
 
