JAIPUR: At least six persons, including a circle officer (CO), sustained injuries after villagers demanding removal of a   on   state highway clashed with cops on Sunday.

 Police also fired tear gas and resorted to mild lathi charge to disperse protestors. One of the protesters was referred to Jaipur for treatment. A total of 16 people, including former MLA Amra Ram, were arrested under Section 151 of the CrPc.
 
 Jaipur rural SP   said that the situation was quickly brought under control and additional forces were sent to the area. “Protesters were dispersed when they tried to damage the toll. The situation is now under control,” Singh told TOI.
 
 Sources said that people from nearby villagers had been protesting against the toll booth for the past 23 days, claiming five villages are affected by the toll on Chomu-Chandwaji road.
 
 “We offered a middle ground, but villagers remained adamant on removing the toll. We went to talk to them in the morning when all of a sudden some miscreants, lurking in the crowd, began hurling stones at us. My leg was injured while a CO and a lady sub-inspector also sustained injuries,” said SDM Priyavarat Singh.
 
 Samod police station house officer (SHO)   said that the protesters were arrested after they pelted stones at officials. “We fired five rounds of tear gas shells and arrested 16 persons,” Singh said.
 
 Additional forces from nearby police stations were also rushed to the spot. “The incident occurred at 12 pm when the protesters began marching towards the toll plaza. The crowd swelled and they also damaged some vehicles,” an official said.
 
 The protest was called by villagers of Cheethwadi, Jatwali, Kushalpura, Fatehpura and   tehsils and supported by former MLA Amra Ram. Villagers claimed that they have to pay the toll multiple times and called for shifting it.
 
 Prakash, a resident of Jatwali, told TOI that the matter had been raging for many days now, but the situation got tense on Sunday. “Some people pelted stones and a cop was injured. The situation turned violent,” he said.
 
 
