HYDERABAD: Many Indians workers are dying in  . Suicides, heart attacks, illness, accident at work site or traffic accidents are the causes of deaths. 

 29 people died in December 2017 itself, according to figures available with the Indian Embassy in Kuwait. The   helps in transporting the bodies to India. Or if the victim's families chose, the bodies are buried locally. 
 
 An analysis of the deaths showed that 14 people died due to heart attacks, two committed suicide, seven because of sickness, one at a work-site accident, one was a natural death, one died in a traffic accident, one died falling from a height and two died in road accidents. 
 
 A 24-year-old worker Manikanta Sabbithi of Hyderabad committed suicide on December 6, 2017 and the body was transported to India. Another, 39-year-old worker from the city, Srinivas Rao Kokka died of a heart attack on December 11. A woman worker, Damayanthi Gorrela from the city who was 41 years old, suffered a heart attack and died. A 24-year-old worker Kishore Nagendra, also of the city committed suicide on November 23. All the bodies were transported to India. 
 
 Of the 29 who died due to various reasons, eight were buried locally itself in Kuwait. The bodies of others were transported to India to Hyderabad, Lucknow, Jammu and Kashmir, Ahmedabad, Tiruchirapalli, Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kolkata and Kozhikode. 
 
 There were more deaths in November 2017. A total of 51 people died due to various reasons and in most of the cases the bodies were transported to India. Among those who died were Ratnaraju Penumala, a 43-year-old worker from Hyderabad, who died due to a heart attack. A 23-year-old worker, Vijaya Babu Podapati committed suicide, Rakhibuddin Mohammed, 49, died of a heart attack and Raji Reddy Gooda, 42, also died following a heart attack. 
 
 The number of deaths in October was also huge. In all 46 Indians died due to various reasons – heart attack being the cause in many deaths. Among them were two from Hyderabad. While 30-year-old Devaraju Donthuraveni died in a traffic accident, a 40-year-old worker Rajaiah Okkapedda died due to a heart attack. 
 
 A look at the statistics shows that there are more than 30 deaths in a month on an average and this is how it has been for the last few years. Statistics for the month of July 2014 show that 51 people died during the month, including four from Hyderabad. 
 
 
