NEW DELHI:   Anil Baijal has written a letter to chief minister  , stating that the alleged assault on the   has had a “demoralising effect on the entire bureaucracy” and that it “has sent shockwaves through all sections of government employees in not only Delhi, but also the entire country”.

 Baijal wrote that the “unfortunate incident of alleged misbehaviour and physical assault on the chief secretary, who is head of the bureaucracy, at the residence of the CM by elected MLAs was unprecedented”.
 
 There was complete silence from AAP over the letter in which LG also urged CM to reach out directly to officials “as greater responsibility lies on him as the alleged assault on CS was reported to have happened at his residence in his presence”. 
 
 Baijal noted that all sections of bureaucracy looked up to the chief minister to provide leadership; however, if their faith in his ability to provide them with a safe and dignified work environment was not restored, it could spell havoc for governance and rule of law. 
 
 LG began his letter by requesting CM to recall “that in the meeting held on February 24 at Raj Niwas, he (LG) had strongly condemned the recent incidents of violence and termed them as most unfortunate”. He had also noted that there was no place for violence in a democratic and civilized society.
 
 The strong words of caution come with an advice that “mutual trust and respect have to be the foundation of a government-employee relationship”. LG claimed that “as things stand, Delhi government employees are feeling insecure”.
 
 Baijal pointed out that during their meeting on February 24, he had asked CM to “take steps to bridge the trust deficit with government employees”. He expressed “regret” that on the same day the elected representatives met him, reports emerged about another MLA allegedly threatening officers in the CM’s presence. 
 
 LG said he would “make all efforts to restore a sense of security among employees”. He noted that in his long career in government, he didn’t recall there being so much rift between an elected government and the bureaucracy, despite Delhi having seen governments of different hues.
 
 On Monday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had written to Baijal over the standoff. 
 
 After the meeting with CM and his cabinet on February 24, LG said that he met the service associations. “From these meetings, the impression he received was that today, government employees in Delhi feel physically insecure, sadly in the very presence of those who have been elected to uphold democracy and rule of law,” LG observed. “In the past also, many officers had complained of ill-treatment by the elected government. He observed that there was a need to introspect how this deplorable state of affairs has developed,” he said. 
 
 LG said as far as he knew, there had “not been any strike by any section of bureaucracy”, adding that “all government offices are open and functioning”.
 
 
