NEW DELHI: Naresh Dhankar’s murderous rampage on Tuesday shocked the residents of the National Capital Territory. But serial killings are not new in the region. People readily recall the Nithari killings, but there were others, equally gruesome and equally inexplicable.

 Among the NCR’s serial killers is  , who was apprehended three years ago in Faridabad. The rickshaw puller had killed at least eight by the time of his arrest. He lived in south-east Delhi from 2009 to 2012, but later shifted to   in Faridabad where he stayed with his sister.
 
 Late at night, Rinku would strangle his passenger, using a new gamchha each time. While five of the murders were reported in Faridabad, three took place in Delhi, including a man in Mansarovar Park in 2011 and in Nand Nagri in 2012. “One of Rinku’s victims whom he had left for dead survived and led the cops to him,” a police officer recalled.
 
 Another cold-blooded killer was  , who was arrested in 2007. Every now and then Jha would   a person, behead the body and dump it near Tihar Jail in west Delhi. The bodies were accompanied by a note boasting that the police would get such gifts every fortnight.
 
 Jha’s father worked with the Bihar government and his mother was a school teacher there. He was first arrested in 1998 for killing his friend who had lied to him. After remaining in jail for three years, Jha came out in 2002 — more deadly and dangerous.
 
 Jha was sentenced to death in three of the Tihar Jail cases. However, the court commuted the capital punishment to life sentence in 2016. Lodged in Jail No 9 at Tihar as a high-risk convict, Jha today mostly keeps to himself, refusing to participate in jail activities. He has, however, been on his best behaviour. He has no visitors ever since his wife, Mamta, stopped going to meet him a few years ago. 
 
 The notorious Devender Sharma is the NCR’s doctor of doom. After completing his Bachelor’s degree in Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery, Sharma practised medicine in his hometown of Aligarh in UP before setting out on his macabre career. Sharma would pose as a tourist and hire long-distance cabs. On the way, he would kill the taxi drivers, steal their vehicles and sell them.
 
 Sharma bumped off 30 drivers from Delhi, Gurgaon and UP between 2002 and 2004, three of them from the capital. He was arrested in 2005, and was sentenced to death in 2008. Lodged in Bhondsi Jail near Gurgaon, Sharma is awaiting his turn at the gallows.
 
 
