THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A cold response to the amnesty scheme for   registration vehicles to pay their taxes in   (announced in the budget) has prompted the motor vehicles department ( ) to think 'legally'. The department will start issuing show-cause notices to owners of vehicles registered in Puducherry, but, plying in the state, from Thursday. 

 "The notices will be issued from tomorrow. If they do not remit the   within 15 days of receiving the notice, steps will be initiated to seize the vehicle. Defaulters will be referred to the crime branch for further action," said transport commissioner K Padmakumar.
 
 MVD has estimated that there are over 2,300 luxury cars and sports utility vehicles that have been registered in Puducherry using bogus addresses to evade motor vehicle tax. Estimating that if vehicles remit tax in the state, it would fetch approximately Rs 100 crore to the state exchequer. Anticipating this, finance minister TM   had announced an amnesty scheme for such vehicles on February 2.
 
 "Many vehicle owners got involved in these transactions without being fully aware of the legal consequences. If they remit the amount which was payable had the vehicle been registered in Kerala, the government would re-examine the legal proceedings against them. Presently, these vehicle owners are abstaining from tax payment, fearing criminal proceedings. It is expected that vehicle owners - who have registered their vehicles in Puducherry and which are permanently used in Kerala - will avail this opportunity by paying tax and thus end legal proceedings," the budget had said. Though the scheme is operational till April 30, the department found that not many have come forward to avail this option.
 
 Sources said that only 300-odd vehicle owners remitted tax initially, through which only Rs 13.6 crore was realized. "The initial vigour when the scheme was announced has come down, and now it appears that some coercive measures will have to be initiated," said a senior MVD officer.
 
 While vehicle tax is charged on a slab system where all vehicles that cost over Rs 20 lakh will have to remit 20% of the total purchase value including GST, it is a meagre Rs 1 lakh in Puducherry. 
 
 
