PUNE: Utter disorder prevailed on Tuesday at Cross Road junction and 200 meters further down at Golibar Maidan Chowk in   area affecting six junctions.

  The traffic branch of the Pune police disallowed a left turn, blocked a section of Parvati Villa Road opposite Principal Controller of Defence Accounts office, prevented a right turn at the T-junction and barricaded the   for underground pipeline work from Parvati water works to   water works.
 
  
  
 The new traffic diversions came into effect after   ( ) failed to expedite the work of laying the pipeline between Solapur Bazaar police chowkey and Goilbar Maidan Chowk.
 
 Wanowrie traffic division’s senior inspector J M Pathan said, “The traffic diversions are temporary. We have deployed 13 policemen, including three officers, to ensure no disruptions.”
 
 Traffic police had granted permission to the PMC for the pipeline work on December 1, 2017 and set March 31, 2018 as the deadline. Interference from politicians halted the project, citizens said. 
 
 PMC officials said the pending work of laying the underground pipeline will be completed in a fortnight. Ramesh Waghmare, executive engineer of Cantonment water works, said, “We are digging to lay the pipeline. If the layers have soil, work will take 15 days but if there is hard rock, it will take a month.” 
 
 PCB’s chief executive officer D N Yadav said, “We have given a no-objection certificate to PMC for the pipeline passing via B-2 defence land but it is under the state public works department. There is no deadline but it is expected to be completed quickly. The PMC-appointed contractor often stops work and the public is put through severe inconvenience.”
 
  elected member Vinod Mathurawala said,“PMC discontinued work for a few days when politicians said school and college students had to take longer routes and it was causing them hardships. The civic body has resumed work after the exams. The pipeline will be completed in a fortnight. Citizens must respect traffic norms and follow diversions to minimise congestion.”
 
 Activist Shashidhar Puram said the new diversion has created congestion on Solapur and Napier roads. “The right turn to Kondhwa from Golibar Maidan is not allowed and vehicles coming from Swargate have to take a left turn and a longer route to go to Kondhwa. The diversion will increase fuel consumption and maintenance costs.” 
 
 Businessman   said the new plan should be tried for two to three days before implementation. “ The road where the pipeline project has been executed was dug up several times in six months. The work was stopped because of interference in executing it. PMC should get leading contractors using latest machinery for expediting the project.”
 
 Home maker Bharati Athwani said they had to take a longer route to Command Hospital from the T-junction on Kondhwa Road.
 
