BENGALURU : The   has drawn flak for defanging the  , but the anti-corruption watchdog has been on a downward spiral for a long time.

 Observers say people have become sceptical of the institution — a feeling that reflected in the drastic fall in footfall at its headquarters in the central business district. Perhaps, it is this decrease which turned security personnel complacent — one reason why a complainant armed with a knife could brazenly walk into Lokayukta P Viswanath Shetty’s chamber on Wednesday and stab him repeatedly. The walk-through metal detector at the entrance had fallen into disrepair several months ago.
 
 
 “The spirit of the institution no longer exists,” says J S D Pani, an RTI activist, a regular at the Lokayukta office when Justice N Santhosh Hegde was at the helm between 2006 and 2011. “While no one is to be blamed, it is a fact that very few people visit the office these days. It is probably why authorities have gone easy on security measures.”
 
 Official records show the Lokayukta would receive 166 complaints a day on an average in 2011. That number fell to almost nil in 2015 when   was arrested on corruption charges and the post fell vacant for several moths. The office is staffed with 10 additional registrars (enquiry) (ARE), and 10 deputy registrars (enquiry) (DRE), who hear cases. But sources say the court halls were near-empty through the day.
 
 However, people began visiting the office with complaints after Justice Shetty took charge last year. Lokayukta registrar H M Nanjundaswamy said the number of complaints registered stood at about 20 a day until last week.
 
 “People visit the Lokayukta office for two reasons: to file complaints and attend hearings of pending cases,” said Nanjundaswamy. “It is true the footfall had hit rock-bottom when the institute was headless. Just when the numbers began increasing, this unfortunate incident (stabbing) took place.”
 
 The Lokayukta receives an annual outlay of Rs 55 crore, but officials say this is for administration and salary expenses. Officials are particularly annoyed over government officials’ claim that the agency could have got the metal detector fixed.
 
 “The Lokayukta office wrote to the police commissioner in January 2015, demanding that the security system be upgraded,” said Nanjundaswamy. “Over 20 reminders were sent since then, but to no avail. They could have at least repaired the walk-through metal detector.”
 
 While the office requires at least 20 security personnel, it has nine constables at present. “We have to blame the government for this,” said Justice Hegde. “The current regime had tried to scrap the Lokayukta’s grievance-redressal authority in 2014 and had that happened, people would have stopped visiting the office. When that move failed, the government created the   ( ) without asking anybody, defanging the Lokayukta.”
 
 Hegde went on to say, “While Justice Bhaskar Rao’s case almost destroyed the reputation of the institution, it became useless in the eyes of the public after it lost its investigation wing to the ACB.”
 
 
