Are you uncomfortable at the thought of a difficult conversation? Do you keep putting off   expecting it to blow-up in your face? You may choose to run but that just delays the process, and in the end, what would have been a difficult conversation becomes an ugly confrontation, says  , author of
 . “It’s far better to have skills to be able to have   than waiting for things to blow up in your face,” she says.

 
 
 The landscape of emotions has always been complex, and in a world full of quick reactions (read instant rage), it’s a swamp that only pulls people under faster than they can imagine. Hence, it’s essential more than ever to discover a new vocabulary for having tough, tricky and difficult conversations. Psychologist Sonali Gupta believes “they are an inevitable part of life”. Says Gupta, “I think people put it off because they feel anxious – and it’s quite normal to feel so. But it’s still best to have that conversation.” Her suggestion? Speak when the anxiety level is not at its peak – when the person you need to talk to is feeling “relatively calmer and is not in midst of overwhelming emotions”. If you detect an overwhelming emotion, keep the conversation for another time.
 
 
 
 A recent survey conducted by Fractl asked nearly 1,100 people about difficult conversations at work – the ones that really make people squirm. Negotiating a raise was the most distressing: 58 per cent of respondents felt uncomfortable having this discussion. Women reported more discomfort around negotiating a raise than men did (more than 66% of female respondents felt very or somewhat uncomfortable). Just over half of men shared that sentiment (see below). 
 
 The first step towards having a difficult conversation is to treat it as normal conversation. How does one do it? It’s wise not to be hyper about this talk. Then, focus on keeping it simple, and take a constructive, solution-oriented approach.
 
 
 
 Sheila Heen, lecturer on Law at Harvard Law School and co-author of the bestseller, 
 emphasises on a tactic called: Third Person or “starting from third person story”. Here’s an example: If you’re going to talk to your teammate, you are the first person, your teammate’s point of view is the second person’s view, and the third person, is when you think like an impartial observer or a mediator. Tricky isn’t it, to achieve this middle path that both sides can agree on? Heen writes in 
 , “The key is learning to accept that there’s a gap between your story and the other person’s story, and try to bridge it. The more honest you can be about the gap, the faster and smoother the negotiation can become. Or vice-versa.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 If you are calm and centred, the job gets easier. An essential part of a successful outcome is never to feel pressurised to break the deadlock! If you come to a point where you have nothing to say, then just listen. Accept that you may not reach an agreement right now and be okay with that. As difficult as the immediate prospect of a tough conversation may sound or feel like, French-Canadian academic and professor of human resources, Jean-François Manzoni, believes facing and handling it ultimately results in having a better outcome, which involves less pain for you as well as the person you are talking to.
 
 
 
 1. Pay packets: 33%
 2. Inappropriate behaviour in the workplace: 31% 
 3. Feedback on poor performance: 30%
 4. Promotions: 23%
 5. Sex: 19%
 6. Relationship break-ups: 17%
 7. Family relationships: 16%
 8. Money: 16% 
 9. Health: 15%
 10. Letting someone go from a job: 10% 
 — Survey conducted by Fractl
 
 
 
 A CPP Inc. study of workplace conflict reveals that employees in the US spend roughly 2.8 hours per week dealing with conflict. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
