NEW DELHI: The Centre told the   on Wednesday that those who voluntarily enrolled for   during 2009-16, when there was no law mandating it, cannot now claim that their fundamental right to privacy has been violated because of the unique identification biometrics. A five-judge Constitution bench led by CJI Dipak Misra asked attorney general   to address the concern of petitioners about unauthorised collection of biometric data between 2009 and 2016, prior to enactment of the Aadhaar Act, and whether these should be deleted. 

 
 Venugopal said: “Collection of biometrics for Aadhaar during 2009-16 did not infringe fundamental rights of any citizen. Aadhaar during that period was voluntary. Once persons volunteered for Aadhaar, they cannot now turn around and say their fundamental rights have been violated.” Justice Chandrachud said: “Even if citizens volunteered for Aadhaar during 2009-16, it was because there was no informed choice. Even if they enrolled voluntarily and gave personal data, they did not seek to surrender their personal details for sharing and aggregation. There was no safeguards, which was not told to them. Nobody’s personal data can be compromised by anyone, more so by the State, even if the details were given voluntarily.” 
 
 The AG said 2009-16 period was a ‘blank period’ for the petitioners’ purpose. But Justice Chandrachud said: “Many enrolled voluntarily for Aadhaar without seeking benefit under any of the social welfare schemes involving subsidy or charge to the Consolidated Fund of India. Be it data-sharing or dataleakage of those who enrolled prior to enactment of Aadhaar law, we have to find out whether it compromised fundamental rights of the citizens.” The AG gave a historical perspective to the Aadhaar and said when British left India, 66% of the 330 million population lived in poverty. 
 
 “Today we are 1.3 billion. The level of poverty has been reduced to to 30% of poverty. But, in absolute terms, it still accounts for about 350 million people in India.” He said there were many good programmes like NREGA and PDS but its implementation was replete with pilferage and corruption. “Aadhaar was devised after a lot of research and is a perfect enabler. It will identify the targeted population and reach the subsidy to the needy without the middlemen eating the most of it,” he said, adding between July 2006 and July 2010, a total of 37 lakh fake ration cards were found in Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Odisha. Additionally, 29.25 lakh ineligible ration cards in Maharashtra and MP have been scrapped, he said. 
 
 Venugopal quoted late former Prime Minister   who had famously said that out of Rs 100 allocated to an anti-poverty project, only Rs 15 reached the people, which was later confirmed by subsequent reports of the Planning Commission. Aadhaar was devised as several studies by the government as well as World bank and Planning Commission revealed that food grains did not reach the intended beneficiaries and that there was large-scale leakage due to failure to establish identity, he said.
 
