TUTICORIN: Sleuths from the Narcotic Intelligence Bureau (NIB) of Crime Investigation Division (CID) seized 102 kilograms and arrested two persons who were smuggling it to  . According to the NIB, preliminary investigation revealed that the seized drug is worth Rs 10.2 lakh.

 Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) of NIB-CID M Muralidharan told TOI that they intercepted the car bearing an   registration number (AP-37-CK-8844) based on specific information that the occupants were smuggling the drug from Andhra Pradesh to Kerala.
 
 The team led by the DSP and inspector B Malarkodi intercepted the vehicle near Meelavittan on the   to   highway. They found the drug concealed in four bags. Two of the bags with 25 kg each were found in the car’s trunk. They also found two more bags in a separate enclosure beneath the rear seats of the vehicle.
 
 The third and fourth had drugs for 25 kg and 27 kg respectively. The persons transporting it were identified as P  , 39, of Rajathottam in Theni and K Loganathan, 37, from M.Chettipatti in Salem. “It is learnt that this is the first time they were getting caught,” said the DSP.
 
 Inquiries with the duo revealed that they were transporting it from a place about 20 kms from Visakhapatnam to Thiruvananthapuram. The duo was booked under Sections 8(c) read with 20(b)(ii)(C) and 25 of The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. After inquiries they were produced before Judicial Magistrate-III in Tuticorin on Sunday and remanded to judicial custody.
 
 NIB sources said that they are trying to spot the owner of the vehicle and ban the network starting with the producer, seller, buyer and supplier and that it could be a time consuming process. It may be recalled that in December the NIB-CID sleuths in Tuticorin nabbed 110 kilograms ganja that was smuggled from Andhra Pradesh to Kerala through Tuticorin.
 
 While Virudhunagar used to be the usual route for smuggling ganja from Andhra Pradesh to Kerala, Tuticorin seems to be the new route, as vehicle checking has been intensified in their earlier route (Virudhunagar). “The accused said this during their confession,” Muralidharan said.
 
