GURUGRAM: District administration officials and police reached the Iffco Chowk   on Tuesday night and demolished the fuel station that has been for long holding up the right-turn underpass for traffic coming from Huda City Centre.

 Sukhjit Mann, the owner of the fuel station, said she had no inkling about the drive that took place on Tuesday night. “The   was carried out following the district administration’s order. I had no idea about the drive. We had already started the shifting process and were to complete it within a few days,” Mann said. 
 
 “What they have done tonight is not right. I was informed by my manager that the officials had reached the pump with two JCB machines and cops. By the time I reached there they had already demolished 40% of the fuel station. All my records and computers have been destroyed,” said Mann, fuming in anger. 
 
 Earlier in the day, Mann had informed TOI that she had received the no-objection certificate (NOC) and forest clearance from the authorities for the Golf Course road site in Sector 42, where the fuel station was being shifted. 
 
 “We had applied for the NOC from the district administration three days ago and on Tuesday we got the approval. The forest department too has given us the clearance for setting up the petrol pump at the Sector 42 site. New tanks to store the fuel have already been placed at the Golf Course road site. I’m hopeful that business would begin from the new site within 15 days,” Mann had earlier said. 
 
 On the objection raised by the owner Ameya One mall over the construction of the fuel station on Golf Course Road, Mann said, “Following the court’s order, we have planned the construction in such a way that it would not restrict the mall’s view.
 
 Meanwhile, Gawar Construction, the company which has the   underpass project said, “Our company has borne Rs 50lakh - Rs60 lakh losses in the past three months because of the halt in the project. Our workers have been sitting idle and our machines have been rusting in the open.” 
 
 However, NHAI officials confirmed that the project will be completed by May end. 
 
 
