GAYA: Derecognition threat looms large over 59 private schools for their failure to declare 25% of Class I seats under the Right to Education (RTE) Act.

 The Act stipulates that 25% Class I seats should be filled with children from poor sections of society having an annual income of less than Rs 3 lakh. Such students are to be given free education by the schools. The state government gives a grant of Rs 5,328 per child to the schools for the purpose.
 
 At least 59 of the 281 registered private schools in the district, including those affiliated to central boards of education, have not declared any seat under the RTE Act so far. The list of schools facing derecognition includes Gyan Bharati Senior Secondary School-Tekari,   town, Jai Hind Public School-Gaya, Banat Model School-Sherghati and Kirk View School-Gaya town. 
 
 According to   DM Abhishek Singh, show-cause notices have been served to the schools. “Derecognition means the schools cease to be a legal entity and will have to be closed down. There is also a provision of an initial fine of Rs 1 lakh against such schools. In case, the schools operate even after being derecognized, penalty is imposed on a daily basis. General parents too will be advised not to get their wards admitted to the schools facing imminent closure,” said the DM.
 
 The DM also said he would be writing to the affiliating bodies to disaffiliate those schools that do not conform to the RTE Act. 
 
 Non-compliance by 59 registered schools notwithstanding, the situation has improved substantially in academic session 2018-19 as compared to academic session 2017-18. As per figures made available by district programme officer Asghar Khan, as against 774 admissions in 2017-18, 1,368 children have already been admitted to Class I in the registered private schools in the session 2018-19. 
 
 The number of seats under the RTE Act in these schools is 2,757. A selection list of 2,432 students applying online was released. Of these, 1,064 students did not enrol themselves. 
 
 “The cause of non-enrolment of the selected students will be examined and the seats allotted to waitlisted applicants,” the DM said and added the selections were made through the draw of lots in order to ensure transparency.
 
 
