An Indian company is proposing to host a novel   – called   – in   for recently-retired cricketers across the globe. According to its plan, shared with a few stakeholders, the games will be played in T10 format but like a Test match with two innings.

 
 The organisers,  , are looking to host the series across the world involving some very big names of world cricket. According to a note, they are hoping to hold matches between Asia XI and World XI with players such as  ,  ,  ,  , Mahela Jayawardene, Kumar Sangakkara among others in Asia XI.
 
 
 The proposed World XI is expected to have Brett Lee, Ricky Ponting, Matthew Hayden, Chris Gayle and Brendon McCullum among others. Each season will have four tournaments in different countries spread across the year.
 
 The plan, apparently, is to a have series of games in the UK in June-July, North America in September-October, the UAE in December and in the following March-April in Australia.
 
 As per the rules, the organisers have to approach the home board of the area where they plan to conduct the matches. In the absence of permission, the matches will be deemed unauthorised.
 
 The organisers did not respond to a mail from this paper but as per the note, 911 Marketing and Events Pvt Ltd is an experiential marketing firm based out of India. The organisers have claimed to be partners of a few corporates and media houses, and were apparently involved in the World Kabaddi League. They also claimed to have managed ground entertainment, venue branding & press conferences for Kings 11 Punjab, Rajasthan Royals and Deccan Chargers in the IPL, Indian Badminton League and Hockey India League.
 
 It is not known if the Delhi-based organisers have got permission to host the matches but Ganguly told this paper that he has not signed up. Messages to other Indian players remained unanswered.
 
 USA games derecognised
 
 Meanwhile, the ICC has said that the two bilateral series being planned by the expelled United States of America Cricket Association (USACA) with a certain organisation called Cricket India will not be recognised.
 
 The USACA, expelled by the ICC in June 2017 amid significant concerns over its governance, finance and cricketing activities, had announced plans to host the Indian women’s and men’s team for a bilateral T20I series each in April and May.
 
 “In accordance with the ICC’s regulations on sanctioning events, no person affiliated to a National Cricket Federation is permitted to participate in any disapproved cricket. This prohibition applies to players, match officials, coaching or management staff affiliated to a National Cricket Federation or any team affiliated to a National Cricket Federation,” the ICC said in a statement. 
 
 (With agency inputs)
 
 
