CHENNAI: By the end of this week,   in  , Kerala and   will be able to avoid the long and frustrating wait at crowded ticket counters and book tickets through a   without breaking a sweat. 

 The facility, to be introduced by   in a week, is significant as unreserved passengers form 93% of all passengers in the zone. Lakhs of migrant workers come from eastern states to Tamil Nadu and Kerala every year by travelling in unreserved coaches. The general compartments are also used by thousands of office-goers in the central and southern districts, which don't have a suburban railway network. 
 
 "Passengers can book tickets through the app while they are travelling to the station and avoid the queue," the official said. There is no need to get a print-out of the ticket at Automatic Ticket Vending Machines (ATVM), he said, adding the payment can be made through the R-wallet which can be recharged online as well. 
 
 
 
 
 
 This initiative to make ticket booking easier for its customers is of prime importance to SouthernRailwaybecausethere has been a drop of 7 million passengers in the unreserved, non-suburban segment in 2017-18. A number of accidents last year triggered a chain of events, with the Railway Board directing officials to give priority to safety and track maintenance works, which began totake a big tollon punctuality. Peak hour salaried employees, who have biometric attendance in offices, began to shift to buses from trains.
 
 
 “The mid- to long-distance passengers have been shifting from railways to road transport due to the rapid development of state and national highways. Private and government bus services are available at good frequency,” the official said. An attractive, seamless ticketing option is a way of attracting passengers backtothe railways. The drop in passengers on the non-suburban, unreservedsegment has already been tempereddueto thebus fare hike in January with many reverting totrains as they were cheaper, theofficial said.
 
 
 A mobile app is already available on the Android and Apple platforms to book tickets on the suburban railway network in Chennai as well as platformtickets. Around 3% of the1.1million suburban rail passengers book m-tickets. Southern Railway’s initial targetfor m-ticket penetration in the non-suburban section is10%, saidofficials.
 
 
 Railway staff are currently monitoring geofencing work at all stations in the state. Geo-fencing helps to bar passengers from booking tickets inside the ticketing area, roughly 50 metres from the station. “This is to prevent ticketless travellers from buying a ticket when they see a ticketchecker,” theofficial said.
 
 
