CHANDIGARH: Accusing   forest department principal secretary   of making a “false statement” before the   and Haryana high court,   awardee and whistle-blower Indian Forest Services (IFS) officer Sanjiv   has sought directions for criminal proceedings for perjury against Roy.

 Chaturvedi, posted in Uttrakhand at present, has sought compensation on account of harassment meted out to him, saying that Haryana government had targeted him by concealing documents and making false statements before the cout. The senior IFS officer has made these submissions before the HC in response to a reply filed by Roy, in the wake of a petition filed by the state for quashing the President's orders and the central government panel's recommendations for a CBI probe into scams exposed by Chaturvedi.
 
 Roy, in his reply submitted to HC on February 28, has claimed that Haryana had not passed any final order against which Chaturvedi was entitled to file the memorial to President of India under the all-India service rules. Roy has also claimed that memorial sent to President had to be referred to the state government as per the rules, but no such reference was made to or received by the state.
 
 It has also been claimed that in this case the federal rights of state has been infringed by the Union ministry of environment and forests by conducting ex-parte proceeding in preparing inquiry report. Lastly, Roy has claimed that Sanjiv Chaturvedi had to approach the central government through state government, but he did not follow the proper channel.
 
 Giving a point-wise reply to Roy’s claims, Chaturvedi has submitted to the HC that state government was informed about the memorial by the Centre through a communication sent on January 11, 2011, which was even responded by the state on January 18, 2011. He said as many as five communications were sent by the Centre to the state regarding holding of inquiry into the issues raised by him in his memorial.
 
 Further, terming the submissions madeby Roy as blatant lies and fit case of launching proceedings for perjury, Chaturvedi has informed the HC that he has already produced the relevant record to the HC convincing that his memorial against state’s action was forwarded to the Centre through proper channel. Accepting his averments, the HC in its orders passed on November 27, 2017 had also allowed his contentions.
 
 Chaturvedi has further stated that a false and contradictory reply filed by Roy reflects that state government has no respect left for sanctity of court and all these “shenanigans” were aimed at saving some politicians and bureaucrats from an independent CBI investigation.
 
 Union ministry report
 
 A Union ministry of environment an forests (MoEF) report, prepared by a two-member panel comprising inspector general of forest A K   and Shally Ranjan, had indicted the offices of then CM Bhupinder Hooda and other senior officers/bureaucrats for fabricating false charges against Chaturvedi and had recommended a CBI inquiry. Subsequently, the President had revoked the charge-sheet against Chaturvedi on January 19, 2011. In 2014, state had approached the HC for quashing panel’s report.
 
 
