2017 was a chequered year for   Jeremiah, who was part of three noteworthy films Taramani (in which she was the protagonist), Thupparivalan and Aval. Despite being a noticeable presence in many of her films, over the past 10 years, many felt that it was with Taramani that the actress came into her own. In a freewheeling chat with us, the actress talks about how the industry needs to keep up with the audience and really open up to heroine-centric films, how she picks up a script, her role in Vetri Maaran’s   and more. Excerpts:

 
 I think it’s an interesting point in my career. Taramani was definitely a game-changer for me. And in many ways, films like Taramani and Aruvi are game-changers for the industry itself. Because, you have strong roles written for women — audiences are loving it. When people draw a line between commercial cinema and offbeat cinema, heroine-centric films are put in the offbeat category. But these two films were commercially acclaimed as well. This blurs the line, and means that you can make a commercially viable film with either a female protagonist, or you can have women in strong, non-traditional roles. The girl doesn’t have to be docile and demure, and can be a reflection of women as they are today.
 
 
 The industry has not changed its outlook — and that is the problem. I think it is about time the industry changed and kept up with the audience. Yes, the audience want to be entertained, but they don’t want to be entertained the same old way. People walk out of a film saying, ‘What was the girl doing in the movie? She had nothing to do and just coming for the songs, and dancing’. Now, audiences want women in films to be doing something apart from looking pretty.
 
 
 It is the changes in society, women becoming stronger with society. Fifty years ago, how many women were going to work? Now, how many are? Financial independence is a key factor. When a woman becomes financially independent, the way she thinks changes. Take a simple thing like fitness. When a woman goes to a gym, she becomes confident of her body; the way she talks, behaves, thinks — everything changes. I know this because I have realised these happening to me in my life. Women are no longer sitting at home and holding it together there. I know so many women with two kids who cook for them, send them to school, go to work and earn a living, then come back and become wives and mothers again. They find time to go to a parlour to look good also. That’s your woman of today. She is not content playing just one role; she wears many hats and she wears them all brilliantly.
 
 
 Everybody keeps asking me this, and my answer is this. I do not work in an IT firm. I don’t have a son. Her core characters maybe similar to mine, in the sense that she’s strong, honest, emotionally driven, and will do anything for the people she cares about. But apart from that she’s totally not me. For example, in the scene in the pub, she throws her slipper at the guys who tease her, but I’d never do that. I’d have just walked way from the scene. In that sense, not everything in the script is the way I’d do it in my real life. I’m an intuitive actress, and over time, I’ve realised that good acting is more about your commitment and the dignity you bring to the role rather than changing your hair or changing your look. All those are external factors, but internally, you need to know why you are doing what you are doing. I feel this is why some roles are better remembered, because people find it easier to do those roles and do a better job. In that way, I think this is a role that I connected to.
 
 
 Most definitely. Even now, after Taramani... I’ve been receiving a lot of scripts, and one director had written the character as someone who smokes and drinks. I asked, ‘Why’s that?’ and he could only talk about me doing these in Taramani. That makes no sense. In Taramani, those scenes were for a reason — to question why it is OK for men and not for women to smoke and drink. But that shouldn’t mean that Andrea should smoke and drink in every film she does. That’s irresponsible. Secondly, what’s happening after Taramani is that in spite of so many people appreciating me, the awards and all that, it’s taken me almost eight months (Taramani released in August 2017) to get to the point where I’m on the verge of signing my next film. 
 
 
 Because, the scripts that have been coming my way are fantastic, but they are not getting locked. They are strong female-oriented scripts, but producers are not there to back them up.
 
 
 The mindset of producers is that only hero-driven films make money. There’s a ratio of win and lose in everything, but they have decided that only hero-based script will work with the masses — despite the fact that a Taramani and an Aruvi worked. Yes, you have your superstars, and the opening of their films is massive, but there are also a lot of other actors who are not mega stars. People think it is risky to invest more than `5 crore on a heroine-led film. One of the biggest blockbusters of last year was Wonder Woman… with an unknown actress. Why is that attitude not trickling down to this part of the world? That’s my problem with the industry. Nobody is asking them to invest `100 crore in a women-centric film, but there are so many good stories waiting to be told in the medium-budget segment. But, for the industry, it immediately becomes risky because the protagonist is a woman! How unfair is that? At the same time, they have also decided now that Andrea has done a film like Taramani, she will now not do a film with   or Ajith. Has anybody come and asked me if I’m uncomfortable doing such films? No. If I get a good role — not some role where I come and do two songs and walk away — it doesn’t matter if it is a ‘hero movie’ or not. I only look at what I am doing in the movie.
 
 
 To be very honest, I had to say ‘No’ to the movie first because I was supposed to start work on Vada Chennai. But when that film got pushed, I thought   would be an interesting director to work with. I liked the idea of a femme fatale. The way he designed the look of the character, and the fact that I had to learn to ride a bike, made it unusual and interesting for me. Come on, in how many movies do we get to see a girl riding a Harley Davidson? 
 
 
 It depends on a number of factors. Say I have four scripts before me right now. I’d really want to do two of those, but the producers might not have come on board for those yet. On the other hand, if the other two are OK-ish scripts, which are ready to start immediately, and they also offer me good money, then, I might decide to act in them. If the first two scripts had producers ready, I’d definitely choose them. So, it depends on what I need at that point of time. And I still have to be convinced by what I’m doing. Now, I’m trying to see this as a job and tell myself that I do not always have to love every script that I select. So, if it’s a good team to be part of, you sign up for it and hope for the best. Sometimes, you fall in love with a script and it might go haywire. Like Taramani, for instance, which took four years. It takes a lot out of an actor. Four years is a very, very long time in the life of an actor.
 
 
 I went through a lot of s**t. I thought about quitting because I lost my faith in the industry itself. Whenever any good script would come my way, they would ask when Taramani was going to release. For an actor, an unreleased film is like poison. It is very hard to be just sitting and waiting. I’m glad that phase is over.
 
 
 That’s not something that I can answer; it is Kamal sir’s film. But I recently watched a cut of it and I have to say it is very action-packed and fast-paced. He is getting it ready, but I do not know by when it’s going to release. However, it will hit screens this year for sure. This also goes to show there is something intrinsically wrong with the industry. Small films getting stalled is one thing, but a big film — with a successful first part and a big star like Kamal sir — finding it difficult to get released makes you wonder. There are some issues in the industry that need to be fixed so that everybody can thrive. An unreleased film is a loss for everybody involved. I’ve stuck with the Tamil film industry only because I genuinely believe they create good content if and when they want to. In Bollywood and Telugu cinema, the packaging is great, but when it comes to great content, we have to look up to mainly Tamil and   cinema. Unfortunately, I don’t speak Malayalam.
 
 
 It’s not like I have not chosen. It’s very difficult to work in a medium where you cannot speak the language fluently. I really respect the fact that Malayalam directors opt to work with actors who know the language. I’ll never hold that against them because that is how everybody should function. You have one less thing to think about. It really makes a huge difference.
 
 
 That’s because   is a different kind of filmmaker. This film, too, has been on the cards for quite a few years now. The cast has undergone a lot of changes. Thankfully, I was not changed; I’ve been part of it from the first time it was supposed to be made. Even the story has evolved — it has become a lot bigger. 
 
 
 I had to familiarise myself with the north Madras slang. It’s definitely not easy. I had to darken my skin. I spent some time in the slum, learning how to clean fish. I had to carry pots of water on my hip and I even had a big bruise doing that. I’m not used to all that. It’s a completely different life — like a parallel universe. It has been an eye-opener for me.
 
 
