NAGPUR: Mosques around the city are seeing a surge in the number of youths who are attending the   offered between 8 to 9pm. Though the purpose of attendance during this period is essentially religious, yet some also say that scientifically and for fitness purposes standing for the Tarawih prayers is good for the body.

 The prayers are performed daily only during the holy month of Ramzan as the complete recitation of Quran is obligatory during this period. “The rising awareness about our religion among the youth has increased their attendance at Tarawih,” says 24 year old MBA student  .
 
  “Now there is a Pro Islam app through which Quran can be read on mobile. Videos of Islamic scholars explaining the meaning is also making it more comprehensible now,” says Aman.
 
 But for Arshad Opai, the reasons are more scientific. “Right from keeping a roza to tarawih prayers it’s all about fitness too. Research says that being on an empty stomach for 12 to 14 hours protects us from diseases like cancer. Then the entire body movements of standing and bending down while praying improves the blood circulation and exercises the entire body from limbs to lower back so it is like a fitness regimen. During the entire duration of 1 ½ hours our mobile phones are switched off so we keep away from it too,” he says.
 
 It is the cleric who recites the Quran while the congregation stands and listens and bows down at the prescribed intervals. “For all good acts and prayers performed during Ramzan the returns are seventy times more. So the more we pray the greater will be the reward,” says Mohd. Musrif, a 26 year old civil engineer. “But the main reason why so many youths are suddenly taking this much interest is because now they are beginning to understand the meaning of all these rituals through YouTube and apps. They are motivated to follow the rituals as they understand the purpose behind it,” he says.
 
 Agreeing that social media tools have played a very significant role, 23 year old Faizan Ali, mechanical engineer says, “Getting the right perspective is a big reason for the ever rising number of youths at the Tarawih prayers.” 
 
 Ali, who started attending at the age of 18 feels he too began late. “Since last two years this platform is getting bigger and as significant as the Friday namaz.” 
 
 As a member of the   Ali says that his organization is asking the clerics to enlighten the youth. 
 
 “Today it has become customary that after the one hour reading of Quran, every maulana devotes fifteen minutes to explain what was read on that day. This helps the youth to connect with what they have heard and lot of good information is circulated which enhances their sense of responsibility,” he adds.
 
 
