NEW DELHI:   district court today directed that chargesheet copies be provided to all the accused in the   of an eight-year-old girl in the district in   in January.
 
 
 The court set the next hearing date as April 28. All the accused were brought to court today.
 
 "Everything will be clear after the narco test," one of the accused said outside the court premises to ANI. 
 
 The accused's lawyer said they were "ready" for the narco tests.
 
 "Court directed that chargesheet copies should be provided to all accused, we are ready for narco tests. Next date of hearing is April 28," said Ankur Sharma, counsel for the accused, to ANI.
 
 The eight-year-old girl was allegedly kept captive in a small village temple in Kathua district for a week in January this year. During that week she was allegedly kept sedated and sexually assaulted several times before being bludgeoned to death.
 
 The Jammu and Kashmir government has appointed two special public prosecutors, both Sikhs, for the trial in the sensitive case, a move being seen as made to ensure "neutrality" in view of Hindu-Muslim polarisation over the case.
 
 The   also initiated an examination of the case - of its own record.
 
 The trial is expected to go smoothly after the Jammu Bar Association as well as the Kathua Bar received a rap on the knuckles from the Supreme Court on April 13. The apex court took strong note of some lawyers obstructing the judicial process in the case saying such impediments "affect the dispensation of justice and would amount to obstruction of access to justice".
 
 According to the charge sheets filed by the crime branch, the abduction, rape and killing of the eight-year-old girl who belongs to a minority nomadic community, was part of a carefully planned strategy to remove the community from the area. It lists Sanji Ram, the caretaker of 'Devisthan', a small temple in a village in Kathua, as the main conspirator behind the crime.
 
 Sanji Ram was allegedly joined by special police officers Deepak Khajuria and Surender Verma, friend Parvesh Kumar alias Mannu, Ram's nephew, a juvenile, and his son Vishal Jangotra alias "Shamma". The charge sheet also names investigating officers head constable Tilak Raj and Sub-Inspector Anand Dutta, who allegedly took Rs 4 lakh from Ram and destroyed crucial evidence.
 
 All eight are under arrest.
 
 The crime branch will also be handing over the notices issued to the Jammu Bar Council as well as Kathua Bar Council for appearing before the Supreme Court on April 19.
 
 The Bar Association of Kathua has already retracted from its earlier statement of providing legal assistance free of cost to the accused and said "after going through the charge sheet presented by the crime branch (against the accused in the court of Chief Judicial Magistrate on April 9) it is revealed that the allegations against the accused persons are very grave and as such this case is to be dealt with in a professional way.
 
 "As such, we have withdrawn our offer to contest the case free of cost. Accused are free to engage any individual advocate and exercise their respective rights of defence in the court. It is for any individual advocate to accept the brief and the bar association will not come in the way of defence nor the bar association will hamper the prosecution," President of BAK Kirty Bhushan Mahajan had said in a seven page statement yesterday.
 
 Members of the same association had blocked the way of crime branch personnel from submitting the charge sheet before the chief judicial magistrate for six hours forcing the police to present it at the house of the magistrate.
 
 Police have already registered a case against the lawyers for obstructing public servants from performing their duty.
 
 
 
 
