MUMBAI: During his presentation to the search committee appointed to pick Mumbai University’s vice-chancellor,  , who went on to win over the selectors, meant business from the word go. While the other candidates spent most of their time speaking about themselves,  , after a brief introduction, dived straight into the nittygritties of his roadmap to reverse the decline in the oncegreat university’s fortunes (see graphic).

 
  
 
 The state governor’s brief to the search committee, headed by noted scientist K Kasturirangan, was clear: The new V-C should restore the university’s credibility and boost its image, and should have a clear action plan for the time-bound declaration of results—the lack of which has dogged the institution in recent years.
 
 A high ranking bureaucrat told   on Sunday that the search panel asked all shortlisted candidates to present a vision document, along with short- and long-term action plans, strategies for resource mobilisation and measures for improving the university’s national ranking. “We had received 102 applications in all, of which 34 were shortlisted. We interacted with the candidates over two days to pare down the list to five, who were recommended to the governor,” he said.
 
 “Despite instructions, barring a few, most of the applicants spent most of their allocated 30 minutes on self-glorification. Barring the five candidates, all nominees spoke about their biodata for over 25 minutes and on their vision document for less than five minute. Even more shocking was that one of the candidates produced a letter of recommendation from a leading jurist,” the bureaucrat said.
 
 Only three nominees – Pednekar, former Nagpur University vice-chancellor V K Sapkal and Garware Institute’s director Anil Karnik — were common to the final list of all members of the search committee (comprising, besides Kasturirangan, Cidco managing director Bhushan Gagrani and NIT Uttarakhand director S L Soni). The names of Nagpur University’s pro-vice-chancellor   and Jabalpur’s P N Kondekar were added to this common list on the basis of internal marking.
 
 After one-on-one interactions with the nominees, the committee members discussed among themselves nominees’ vision documents. The panel also took note of their academic and administrative experience. Though all were found to be good, the panel felt that Pednekar’s vision document was the best, particularly in view of Mumbai University’s crisis. “The panel presented the findings to the governor for him to take the final decision,” the bureaucrat said.
 
