CHENNAI: Tired of slow-moving traffic in the city’s north, especially near the port?   and   could sort that out with an idea to slash container truck traffic in the area by 15%.

 The plan, officials said, is to permit container trucks from Bengaluru, Hosur, Salem, Tirupur and Coimbatore till Jolarpet station and to allow cargo unloading there. Shuttle freight trains will transport the containers from that point to the port.
 
 The concept offers a crucial time benefit (truckers now wait around 15 hours outside the port gates), could reduce vehicular emission and improve road safety in the area, Chennai Port Trust (ChPT) chairman   said.   (Concor) has created a similar facility at its Tondiarpet yard, he said.
 
 Port trust officials on Monday presented the proposal to Southern Railway general manager R K Kulshrestha. Southern Railway and ChPT have appointed a firm to prepare a detailed report and are likely to implement the project by the end of the year.
 
 Around 1,700 trucks enter ChPT every day. By conservative estimates, Raveendran said, if with two freight shuttle services daily, the facility will ensure that 300 less trucks enter the city daily.
 
 Coffee, textiles and machinery are among the main exports from the port; major imports include auto products and chemicals.
 
 ChPT has 10 gates, but only Gate No. 1 allows trucks 24-hour entry, holding up scores of trucks outside the port gates. “The port has a capacity of 100 million tonnes/annum (MMTPA), but handles only 50 MMTPA,” Raveendran said. “Congestion restricts its capacity to evacuate cargo. The train option will help with that.”
 
 A freight train will take five to six hours from Jolarpet to the port. A trucker could make two additional trips to and from Jolarpet, if say he is bringing goods from Hosur, Raveendran said.
 
 Raveendran, an Indian Railway Traffic Service cadre officer who has worked with Southern Railway, proposed the idea because Jolarpet station has a yard that could be used to build a multimodal logistics park. 
 
 Sources said the railways, which stands to gain from an rise in cargo potential, offered ChPT and Concor attractive concessions for the freight train facilities.
 
 
