She has had a dream run last year. From playing a single mother who doesn’t change herself to fit the society’s definition of a ‘woman’ in   and the badass girlfriend of the antagonist in   to the loving wife who is forced to face the evil in  , she has done roles that showcase her versatility as an actress. On the music front, she has been busy with playback singing, and doing covers, singles and live performances. Despite the busy schedule,   tells us she makes it a point to spend time with friends and family during the festive season. This time around, she rang in the New Year in the capital of UK. But before heading there, she took time out for a photoshoot for Chennai Times. Dressed in lovely black, with the wind kissing her tresses, she posed for our shutterbug. The mood of the shoot truly reflected her resolve for the New Year — to be a spirited soul and live every moment. Excerpts from the chat: 

 
 
 I usually spend New Year with my friends. This time, I’m in London, my most favourite city in the world.
 
 
 
 (Laughs) I don’t make New Year resolutions. I think resolutions can be made at any time of the year. I believe more in lifestyle changes than in New Year resolutions. 
 
 
 
 Impatience is a vice of mine, and I’ve been trying to work on it lately. So yes, that would be the thing I’d like to change about myself. 
 
 
 
 I knew Taramani would be a path-breaking film, and we all had a lot of faith in Aval because of the genre, but truth be told, the commercial success of both those films did surpass my modest expectations. 
 
 
 
 I started work on the film in December 2013, and it released almost four years later. It was a really difficult time, simply because an unreleased film is like poison for an actor. I suppose this was life teaching me the art of patience. It was an emotionally draining film, but I have to thank Ram sir (director) for writing a flawed yet beautiful character, and I think that’s why women connected with it so much. 
 
 
 
 Quite frankly, I didn’t think the scenes were excessively graphic. Indian films have shown women in itsy bitsy clothes, doing suggestive dance moves, and yet it’s a big deal when a film showcases real intimacy between a happily married couple. 
 
 From a bold, no-nonsense single mom and a wife trying to save her husband from the devil to the ‘devil’s’ girlfriend, you’ve played diverse roles last year. Was it a conscious decision to not do clichéd roles?
 I can only choose from the scripts that come to me. Maybe if I’d gotten more commercial film offers, my career would’ve had a completely different graph. But directors have always viewed me as a separate entity in the industry, and while I have lost out on a lot of big commercial films because of that stereotype, I’ve also attracted a lot of good scripts with solid author-backed roles. 
 
 
 
 For me, my film work goes beyond making money and getting famous. Films are a legacy we leave behind… good or bad, they won’t ever go away. So, I want to be part of films that I can be proud of. I would love to do a period film, and at the other end of the spectrum, a simple love story is also on my wishlist. 
 
 
 
 Till date, when someone asks me what I’m currently working on, their next question is — who’s the hero? It’s sad, but for some reason, the south film industry values an actress based on her co-stars. It’s been an incredible struggle to make a mark doing work where I’m not just a prop in a hero-centric film. Not that there is anything wrong with that, but hey, we girls would also like to showcase our own talent once in a while! 
 
 
 
 Both these films are going to be huge, for different reasons. For the past five years, everywhere I go, people have always asked when Vishwaroopam 2 is releasing. For a film to sustain audience interest over so many years is nothing short of miraculous; I guess that’s the magic of Kamal sir. As for Vada Chennai, that’s the magic of Vetri Maaran and my role is like nothing I’ve ever done so far in my career.
 
 
 
 It’s interesting you should say that, because it’s true, while I had to learn horse-riding for Vishwaroopam 2, and riding a Harley Davidson for Thupparivalan, I had to unlearn so much for Vada Chennai. I had to completely strip myself of all my social conditioning, and to be honest, that was far more challenging.
 
 
 
 Dubbing is such an important part; you can change the tone of the performance completely with the voice. And that’s why I’m so particular that I dub for myself, because I don’t want to share the character with anyone else unless it’s absolutely unavoidable because of a particular slang or accent. 
 
 
 
 I’ve been working on my music for a very long time, but I’m yet to figure out a suitable release strategy, which is why most of it remains unreleased. 
 
 
 
 It would have to be a very special film! 
 
 
 
 There was a time when I would’ve chosen singing, but now, I’ve reached a stage where they are both equally important to me. 
 
 
 
 Let’s take a moment to think about the kind of roles most Indian female actors play in films. Strong author-backed roles for women are the exception, not the norm in Indian cinema. So, until that changes, not much else will. 
 
