CHANDIGARH: With the Union government setting a target for reduction of pollution, the UT administration has decided to prepare a comprehensive action plan. It will also be getting an Rs 5-crore device to monitor pollution.

 Chandigarh is in the list of 100 cities identified on the basis of level of pollutants such as NO2, PM2.5 and PM10 by the Central government for reduction of pollution level. The government aims at cutting pollution level by 35 % in next three years and 50% by next five years.
 
  
  
 
 Before starting working on framing an action plan, there is need to conduct source apportionment study, said UT environment director  , who last week held a meeting with officials in Delhi. For conducting the study in four different cities, IIT Kanpur has procured Switzerlandmade monitoring devices at a cost of Rs 5 crore each. One such device will be installed in Chandigarh. “The monitoring device will help us in source proportion, and an action plan will be prepared for countering the problem,” said Kumar. Chandigarh will not have to pay for the monitoring device, except for logistics.
 
 Residents have a reason to worry as the quality of air has deteriorated with the quantity of particulate matter being beyond permissible limits. At present, the local administration does not have an action plan. It also does not have any data to quantify proportion of various elements to the overall level of pollution.
 
 Crop harvesting seasons, effects of pollens due to greenery, temperature effect, industrial surroundings and vehicular density are cited to be the main reasons behind high pollution.
 
 Monitoring data from 5 locations
 
  (CPCC) measures the level of pollution by installing air quality monitoring devices at five locations — Punjab Engineering College,  , Sector 39, Industrial Area, Kaimbwala village and Sector 17.
 
 
 
 Residents have a reason to worry as the quality of air has deteriorated with the quantity of particulate matter being beyond permissible limits. At present, the local administration does not have an action plan. It also does not have any data to quantify proportion of various elements to the overall level of pollution.
 
 Environment department installed a device at Government College of Commerce and Business, Sector 50, for real time monitoring. Air quality index (AQI), which has six categories––good, satisfactory, moderately polluted, poor, very poor, and severe, was above permissible limit in 2017. Against prescribed limit of 40 microgram per cubic metre (µg/m3), annual average of particulate matter was on the higher side at five locations. Annual average of PM2.5 was recorded at 68 µg/m3 in Industrial Area, 57 µg/m3 in  , 65 µg/m3 in IMTECH and 61 µg/ m3 in Kaimbwala.
 
