VIZIANAGARAM/VISAKHAPATNAM: A   was seriously   in a firing incident near the LIC office in the town on Saturday. Nammi Appala Raju was fired at by Botsa Mohan, another realtor and one of his rivals, after an argument. After initial treatment at a local hospital, Raju has been shifted to a private hopsital in Vizag city. His condition is critical.

 Though the incident happened late on Saturday night, it came to light only on Sunday. Mohan, according to police sources, fired six rounds at Raju after a heated argument and fled the scene as Raju collapsed in a pool of blood.
 
 While this is the second such incident in the district in eight months — a cloth merchant was gunned down by his rival at   in July last year — this is the first time such a thing has happened in Vizianagaram town. There have been clashes between rival groups before, but this is perhaps the first time a firearm has been used to attack a rival.
 
 According to the police, Raju, who’s into real estate business, met Mohan, who hails from   district, at the former’s office near the LIC building, under One Town police station in Vizianagaram town on Saturday night. The argument soon took a turn for the worse, when Mohan, in a fit of rage, took out his   and fired six rounds at Raju. A severely bleeding Raju was immediately taken to a local hospital by his office staff, from where the doctors referred him to a hospital in Vizag city for better treatment. Raju’s condition is critical and the doctors are trying their best to save his life. 
 
 On receiving information, Vizianagaram police rushed to the spot and started inquiry. After sealing the crime scene, they took the versions of eyewitnesses and other people who were present at the place during the firing incident. Vizianagaram DSP Ramana said as per preliminary inquiry and eyewitness accounts, the firing apparently happened because of old rivalry and financial disputes between the two.
 
 Both Mohan and Raju entered real estate business together but differences cropped up after some time. Both were known to quarrel frequently over financial matters. Police are yet to find out the truth behind the murder bid. 
 
 
