CHANDIGARH: The UT administration and the municipal corporation spent Rs 1.53 crore to build an air-conditioned fish and meat market in Sector 41 against the advice of  , said the comptroller and auditor general ( ) report tabled in   recently. 

 The market is lying vacant for past eight years owing to lack of response from vendors.
 
 The administration initiated the project at Rs 98.75 lakh. However, the construction was completed at Rs 1.53 crore. Later, the wholesale and retail booths along with a chilled room in the market were handed over to the corporation in two phases in May 2007 and December 2009.
 
 Scrutiny of records revealed that the studies and consultation undertaken by the administration and the MC to establish the feasibility of the market had termed the project unviable. The administration had also sought opinion from the Union ministry, which had said the project would not be "economically viable" as the cost of fish would be more than that in other outlets in the city. Not only that, fish dealers in Chandigarh had also said they would not be able to take up shops in such a market.
 
 
 
 
 Subsequently, the concept of the project was broadened and a meat market was also included. However, no reference was made to the corporation for its viability after inclusion of meat markets. The market has been lying vacant since its construction due to lack of response from vendors during auctions. The corporation made multiple attempts to rent out the spaces in the market.
 
 According to official records, auctions to rent out the spaces in the market were conducted on five occasions between April 2010 and July 2015, but were not successful. After failed attempts, the corporation is now planning to convert the fish and meat market into a general trade market.
 
 The CAG report observed: “The failure of administration to properly assess the viability of the market before undertaking its construction resulted in the market, constructed at a cost of Rs 1.53 crore, remaining vacant for past eight years.” The matter has been referred to the ministry of home affairs.
 
 The report also highlighted incorrect application of CPWD rate for departmental charges resulted in excess payment of Rs 61.46 lakh. As per Section 12.1 of CPWD Works Manual, no departmental charges are levied for the government works and those of autonomous bodies fully funded by the Central government. Dr Ambedkar Institute of Hotel Management Catering and Nutrition (Institute), which is an autonomous body, accorded administrative approval for construction of an additional block at Rs 9.91 crore. Scrutiny of the records revealed that the executing agency, that is, UT engineering department had charged departmental charges at 14.30% as against the 7 % stipulated in the CPWD Works Manual. This resulted in excess payment of departmental charges amounting to Rs 61.46 lakh.
 
 
 
