KOLKATA: The city’s premier heritage clubs are evaluating the feasibility of running multiple bars on their premises following the hefty sum they have had to pay this year with the 10-fold hike in excise licence fee.

 Bengal Club, one of the oldest and most prestigious clubs, has decided to shut down six of its 10 bars. “We have already informed the excise department of our decision to close down six bars. Had we continued with 10 bars, our fee payment would have gone up from Rs 3.2 lakh last year to Rs 23 lakh. With only four bars now being ret-ained, the fee will be Rs 13 lakh,” a Bengal Club official told TOI.
 
 
  
 
 This isn’t the only club toying with the idea of closing down a bar or two. Sources in the club circuit said Tollygunge Club, which has 14 bars, is also taking a hard look at the revenue earned from each bar so that a decision can be taken by the management about the “worst performers”.
 
 “At  , we were planning to actually increase the number of bars. That is now out of the question. We are now grappling with the double whammy of inc-rease in alcohol prices as well as the higher licence fees,” said a club official.
 
 With the March 31 deadline for payment of licence fee looming large, clubs have started paying the fees for this year but intend to take a look at the revenue-expenditure data before taking a call on the renewal next year. The optimists among them are hoping that the government will scale down the ‘unreasonable’ 10-fold hike before they are forced to take the shutdown decision.
 
 Some 15 city clubs have written to the excise commissioner, seeking a partial rollback. The prominent among them are Calcutta Club, Calcutta Cricket & Football Club, Royal Calcutta Golf Club, Calcutta Rowing Club, Lake Club, Calcutta International Club, Dalhousie Institute, Outram Club, Saturday Club and Calcutta Swimming Club.
 
 Calcutta Rowing Club general secretary Chandan Roychowdhury argued it is unfair to treat heritage clubs on par with restaurants and new-age corporate clubs. “The old clubs are not profitable organisations. Most are affiliated as sports clubs and act as registered societies,” he said, adding that clubs that have multiple bars will have no option but to look at rationalization unless the fee hike is moderate.
 
 Joyjeet Biswas, president of Dalhousie Institute, too, reasoned that social clubs that had contributed to the cultural ethos of the city over several decades should be set apart from commercial clubs and restaurants. Dalhousie Institute is yet to pay the revised licence fee for its three bars.
 
 
