JAIPUR: Poor quality of research work, shortage of faculty, fund lapse, no major international project and incompetent administration pulled Rajasthan   off the list of top 100 universities in India. National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF) rankings announced recently by HRD ministry ranked varsities on 29 parameters. Last year, RU had attained 79th position in NIRF rankings. Some of the reasons for poor grades this year are RU’s withdrawal from two major international collaboration experiments including the Brookhaven National Laboratory, besides Bar Council of India’s critical report on law colleges and shortage of faculty.

 “The international projects are time-bound which require university’s consistent and continuous support like release of grants and approving the different stages of projects. Other than, Brookhaven National Laboratory, the physics department withdrew from the FAIR (https://fair-center.eu/) project which was a major international project of the  . The withdrawal has highlighted the university administration’s poor coordination with faculty and academic departments,” said a university professor.
 
 Quality of research work was also a criteria in ranking the varsities. The scores were so poor that that RU, once known for its research work in the country, stood way behind several universities which came up in the last two decades. Another area which substantiates the decline in research work is a sharp drop in the number of our high-citation publications from the university.
 
 Release or utilization of grants was also a criterion of ranking the university. Being adjudged the University with Potential for Excellence (UPE) in 2013, RU was to receive the amount for several projects in two phases. However, the varsity failed to use Rs 25 crore it had received in the first phase for construction of a library, buying equipment for   (CCT) and INFONET along with funds for seminars and conferences. Half of the funds lapsed due to non-utilization on March 31, 2017.
 
 Governor Kalyan Singh slammed the varsities, including RU, for not utilizing the funds and directed them to submit a detailed report on why they had allowed the funds to lapse.
 
 Considering the failure to convince V-Cs for healthy academic practices and promotion of research, we decided against applying for extension, said an RU professor.
 
 Self-finance courses like five-year integrated law college and Centre for Converging Technology (CCT) running without permanent faculty also put RU behind in the ranking.
 
 
