HYDERABAD: Telugu Desam Party ( ) chief and Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu   will address a mega public meeting at   next month. 

 The party chief has decided to dedicate at least one or two days in a week to review the party activities in Telangana mainly to strengthen the party and restore the past glory to the party in Telangana. Naidu assured the party leaders during his two day meetings with Telangana TDP leaders held on February 28 and March 1. TDP in Telangana lost its sheen for quite some time, especially after many party leaders and MLAs left the party and joined either   or Congress. Naidu also didn't tour Telangana for the past two years especially after the 'cash for vote' scam.
 
 In the recent past, TDP has taken up programmes such as Palle Palle Ku Telugu Desam and even taken up agitational programmes on various issues. But they could not stop migration of cadre from TDP to other political parties. 
 
 Now, with the Lok Sabha elections due either by the end of this year or in the first quarter of 2019, the Telangana TDP boss has decided to strengthen the party and revive its glory. 
 
 Chandrababu Naidu, who is camping in Hyderabad for the past two days, held meeting with the party politburo and central committee on Thursday. He directed the party leaders to strengthen the party from the grass root level. Naidu on Wednesday addressed the party general body and dismissed reports that his party will be merged either with the TRS or any other party in Telangana. He made these remarks in the wake of TDP leader   making such a suggestion. Interestingly, Narsimhulu did not come to the party leaders meet.
 
 "Our party president has directed us to continue the party programme palle palleku TDP to reach out to people in all the villages till March 29. He also asked us to fill up party district presidents in Sanga Reddy, Nizamabad, Karimnagar, Sircilla and Peddapally districts, which are lying vacant for the past few months," Telangana TDP president L   told TOI. Since the party still has cadre in almost all the Assembly constituencies in Telangana, both local and state party leaders will frequently interact with them, Ramana said. 
 
 
