DEHRADUN/MEERUT:   girl   scored all but three marks in her CBSE class XII exams whose results were announced on Saturday. A student of Meerut Public Girls’ School in Shastri Nagar, Ananya scored a 100 each in Geography, Political Science, History and Music, but lost three marks in English (97). She along with Tanuja Kapri of Haridwar who also scored 497 out of 500, secured third slot in the country with 99.4% marks each.
 
  Daughter of a government official, Tanuja Kapri, who is also Uttarakhand’s state topper, said she was hoping to get good marks but did not expect such a performance. “The way my pre-boards had gone, I was hoping to get good marks, but I had never imagined that I will be the state topper,” she said. Tanuja said she wants to study law from National Law University, Bengaluru. “I have appeared for   exams and waiting for results. I hope to clear the exams so I could study at NLU which is my dream,” she said.
  
  A student of Humanities, Tanuja also scored full marks in four out of five subjects (English, Hindi, Geography and Painting) and but fell short by three marks in Economics as she scored 97 in in the subject. A little sad by her performance in Economics which happens to be her favourite subject as well, Tanuja said, “I was expecting a much better performance in Economic as the paper was quite easy as well, but that did not happen.”
  
  In Meerut, Ananya, who had scored a 10 CGPA in Class X, never took any tuition classes. She is not on social media and does not have a cellphone. “Social media and cellphone distract me from studying and hence I was not active there. I plan to pursue Political Science Honours from Delhi University and then take Civil Services exam,” she said.
  
  Ananya’s father   is posted as a police inspector in Aligarh while her mother Parvesh Singh is a homemaker. “It is her hard work and dedication, which made her score such high marks. Nobody in the family has ever topped in school, let alone the district,” her mother said.
  
  Telling about her schedule, she said, “I believe in studying when I really want to. I do not believe in the concept of opening books but still not focusing there. Also, I stress on revision of subjects at least thrice before exams.”
