In the recently concluded  , actor-director Shital Shah’s debut Gujarati film   - Aavi Ramat Ni Rutu won eight awards including Second Best Director (Shital Shah), Best Editor (Shaina Shah) and Best Actress. “It is a really exciting moment for all of us. Winning the award means that all the hard work that we put was worth it,”   shares.
While winning eight awards in itself is an achievement, what makes it even more special is the fact that three women from the same family have broken stereotypes and paved a way for many other female filmmakers to tread on the less travelled path. “There are not many female filmmakers and technicians in film industries world over, leave alone the   industry. And this award is a recognition of the fact that if you want, you can do it irrespective of your gender,” says an excited Shital Shah. She adds, “This is a very special moment for all of us because we have done it together. When we headed out to make the film, there were so many challenges that we didn't know if this film will ever happen. But we believed in ourselves and the hard work has paid off.”
 Talking about the challenges of being a female filmmaker, Shital adds, “Just three weeks before going on floor, our producers backed out because they didn’t believe a woman could make a film. And this perception exists everywhere. It’s our fight and we have to fight it till the end. We are never encouraged to take risks and do what we believe in, that's the conditioning we all grow up with. We took a calculated risk and with the support of our family, we pulled it off. The results are in front of us.”
 Ask her if the government is doing enough to support the industry, and she quips, “The government does what it can to support us, it’s the industry that has to stand on its own. It is not fair to blame the government for not doing enough. It is our responsibility as filmmakers and as part of the industry to make good films and do our best to make them work. We have a ready Gujarati audience all over the world, we just need to tap them. And while theatrical releases are not enough, we also need to explore other mediums which will broaden our audience base.”
 
 
