Mumbai: Former chief executive of Deutsche Bank’s Asia-Pacific operations,  , is back in India as an entrepreneur and has received a non-banking finance company ( ) licence from the regulator. 

 Chadha has formed a team of bankers to build a loans business that will focus on  ,  ,   and  .
 
 While   received its approval from the   recently, the housing finance company (HFC) is awaiting a nod from the  . The core team includes Shankar Dey, executive director, APAC Financial Services and chairman of APAC Housing Finance. Dey had set up and managed the Indian operations of three international banks as CEO and also served as CFO of  . 
 
 The HFC arm will be headed by Harpreet Singh, who had set up a housing finance business for three banks in India. For the position of chief digital officer, Chadha has taken on board Sanjay Sharma — who has been heading technology — from  , and Shalaka Gadekar, who headed the HR function in several banks earlier, as the chief people officer.
 
 Chadha said, “Although I am the promoter, the entire co-founding senior management team will have significant skin in the game as they will all be investing in APAC from their savings, with a 5+ year time horizon. We are collectively excited about the journey ahead in what is likely to be India’s best decade. We see a significant opportunity in affordable housing for the self-employed, structured finance for corporates and MSMEs (micro, small & medium enterprises) across the board. Each of these segments are currently under-served by banks.”
 
 According to him, APAC’s focus will be on solving real customer problems — be it adequate or timely or flexible availability of credit. “These are also segments with strategic government priority and regulatory tailwind. Our strategy is to focus on cash flow analysis, but do collateralised loans in product or client segments where the yields are close to that of unsecured loans,” he added.
 
 APAC is looking at a capital base of Rs 250-500 crore in the first year and is getting excellent incomings from institutional investors. It is turning out to be a problem of plenty as the investors are keen on putting in larger amounts than what APAC may wish to raise upfront. “We might therefore raise funds from a smaller group of family office investors. We will firm up the external capital strategy in the coming quarter as currently APAC is well funded by the founding team,” said Chadha. 
 
 “Our plan is to have a home loan book of Rs 7,500-10,000 crore in five to seven years and overall AUM ( ) of over Rs 25,000 crore across the APAC group, including the NBFC. We have just received the regulatory licence for the NBFC — APAC Financial Services — in a relatively short time, reflective of growing ease of doing business in India. We are set to launch our businesses in the coming quarter.”
 
 APAC will use innovation for fulfilment of customer needs to stand out from other lenders. “Partnerships with incumbents to build scale and strong risk management will be key priorities for APAC. While we will partner with fintech and will be heavily digital-led, we are not going to be a pure algorithm-based fintech lender,” said Chadha.
 
 
