Despite being tested for the first time in the ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup 2018, the Indian-middle order did well to help their team put up a fighting total of 265 in their quarter-final match against Bangladesh at the Queenstown Events Centre, Queenstown on Friday. 

 
 Vice-captain   again was in the thick of runs scoring his third consecutive fifty plus score with a well-compiled 86 off 94 deliveries. Skipper Prithvi Shaw scored 40 at the top while allrounder   chipped in with 50 off 49 deliveries late in the innings.
 
 For Bangladesh, off-spinner Nayeem Hasan was the pick of the bowlers claiming two wickets in his ten overs for just 36 runs, while Qazi Onik claimed three for 48 in his 10. However, keeping in mind that this was the same track in which Australia defended a total 127 in the previous quarter-final, India would be the happier bunch heading in to the break. The track’s two -paced nature was very evident right from the start and after losing fellow opener Manjot Kalra for nine in the fourth over of the match, Shaw and Gill combined for an 86-run stand for the second wicket. 
 
 Shaw was cautious at first, while Gill took on the role of the aggressor and despite Bangladesh bowlers maintaining a disciplined line, India managed 71 in the first 10 overs. But when it looked Shaw would up the ante medium-pacer Qazi Onik produced a peach of a delivery to get rid of the Indian skipper. Qazi rolled his fingers over and the length ball zipped awat after pitching and despite Shaw getting an edge the ball crashed in to the off stump. Harvik Desai, the wicket-keeper batsman then steady the ship for India with a 48-ball 34. He, along with Gill out on 74 runs for the fourth wicket in 98 deliveries as Bangladesh spinners curtailed the run flow in the middle-overs. 
 
 Bangladesh skipper Saif Hassan bowled eight tidy overs for giving away 41 runs while fellow off-break bowler Afif Hossain bowled eight overs for 46 runs. Gill consolidated in the middle and rotated the strike -well. He was strong square of the wicket and played the full-length deliveries through the V. However, Bangladrsh pulled things back. From a healthy 176 for 2, India slumped to 239 for 7. Desai was castled by Nayeem while Gill departed soon after nicking one to wicketkeeper Mahidul Islam. 
 
 Abhishek then stepped up to the plate. He first stepped settled in with Riyan Parag (15) and then accelerated when wickets started falling around him. He fell to Hasan Mahmud and three balls later India were all out for 265. 
 
 
 
 
 
