ASANSOL/KOLKATA: A fragile and tentative peace returned to West Burdwan on Friday when, for the first time since last Sunday’s Ram Navami processions, there was no violence on the ground. One more body was recovered from the riot-torn areas of   but cops said this death had no connection with the post-Ram Navami violence that claimed three lives in West Burdwan and five in Bengal between Sunday and Thursday.

  BJP scaled up its pressure on the Trinamool government, with party president Amit Shah calling the violence “sad and unfortunate”. It also constituted a four-member panel, led by party national spokesperson  , which will visit Asansol and submit a report to the national leadership.
 
 The decision came a day after police prevented Union minister and Asansol North MP   from visiting the trouble-torn areas of Chandmari on the pretext that Section 144 had been clamped on Asansol. The administration is likely to stick to this stand if the BJP national delegation visits Asansol before restrictions are relaxed.
 
 There was no violence on the ground on Friday but the discovery of the unidentified body from one of Asansol’s riot-torn neighbourhoods — and the prompt police denial of any link with the clashes — underlined how fragile this peace was. “A body has been recovered. The death has no connection with the earlier violence,” Asansol police commissioner Laxmi Narayan Meena said.
 
 Cops drew up deployment plans for Saturday’s Hanuman Jayanti celebrations, which would be coming six days after similar “celebrations” for Ram Navami sparked off the clashes. Most residents locked themselves inside their home on Friday as police patrolled the desolate market area, three kilometres off National Highway 2.
 
 Some traders opened a few shops in the vegetable market for some time on Friday but few people ventured into neighbourhood populated by the other community. “Barbers, mostly Hindus, are scared to go to the Muslim localities while Muslims are afraid of going to the market, where traders are mainly Hindus,” said   imam Md Indadullah Rashidi, who lost his 17-year-old son, Sibtullah, in the violence. About a hundred Higher Secondary examinees from the affected areas could not reach their exam centres on Thursday.
 
 Asansol cops arrested around 70 people on Friday as part of the ongoing raids to weed out those responsible for instigating the bouts of violence that had pitted neighbours and friends against each other for the past five days. Police also gathered video clips of arson and loot from members of both communities to identify those who masterminded the clashes.
 
 
