VADODARA/ANAND: The fifth Charotar crocodile count to ascertain the number of reptiles which have made the wetlands of lush green   and Kheda districts of Central   their abode began on Saturday. 

 It is for the fifth consecutive year that the Voluntary Nature Conservancy ( , formerly known as Vidyanagar Nature Club) is organizing the two-day crocodile count in the rural heartland of Central Gujarat.
 
 “The last count had revealed the presence of 200 crocodiles spread in 26 villages of both the districts,” said Dhaval Patel, managing trustee of VNC, adding that the last count had revealed that the crocodiles were spread over an area of 1,300 sq km of the twin districts.
 
 “This time, we have selected nearly 100 volunteers from different states of India and 11 districts of Gujarat,” said Patel, adding that globally such citizen science approach is employed for crocodile population survey only at two places—the annual exercise done by VNC in Charotar and at   in South America. 
 
 Those who have volunteered for the count this year not only include wildlife enthusiasts and those associated with forestry, but also the students of a variety of streams including those enrolled in commerce, engineering, architecture and arts studies. 
 
 “This will also provide an opportunity to citizens from 10 different states of the country to learn about co-existence with the reptiles. Usually, there are talks about man-animal conflict but not about their peaceful co-existence,” said Patel. 
 
 “The villages in Charotar are a fine example of this co-existence. Earlier, it was believed that they protected crocodiles because of religious belief. But in the past four counts, we came to know that they protected crocodiles out of love for the reptiles,” Patel explained. 
 
 The concluding session of the two-day count will be hosted at   (CHARUSAT) having its campus at Changa which too is home to a water body which has a crocodile population. 
 
 A 42-page booklet authored by Dr Raju Vyas, vice-chair, IUCN-SSC crocodile specialist group, South Asia and Iran, on ‘Muggers of Vadodara’ will also be released at the concluding session of the count by well-known environmentalist Bittu Sahgal who will deliver a talk on the conservation with the help of citizens. 
 
 
