Ludhiana: On first day of the three-week long campaign against measels-rublella, health department set up 221 camps at various schools where a total of 29,784 children were vaccinated. 

 With an aim to eliminate   and control congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) in the country, a district-level vaccination campaign against measles-rubella kicked off on Tuesday from International Public School in Sandhu Nagar. The deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal along with civil surgeon Dr Parvinder Pal Singh Sidhu started the three-week long campaign in the district. Under this campaign children aged between 9 months to 15 years will be vaccinated by health teams.
 
 An estimated 12.55 lakh children will be vaccinated in Ludhiana and the vaccination will be carried out in schools during the first two-weeks and later in the community through outreach sessions. 
 
 Giving a call to the people, the deputy commissioner (DC) asked them to participate positively in the campaign and motivated health officials to ensure not even a single child between the aforementioned age group be left. During inaugural session, the DC talked to the school children and shared light moments with them. 
 
 Meanwhile, civil surgeon in Ludhiana, Dr Parvinder Pal Singh Sidhu said three phases of measels-rubella vaccination campaign have been already completed in 13 states covering around seven to eight crore children with this vaccine safely while Punjab is being covered in Phase 4.
 
 Sidhu further said all vaccinators are highly skilled health workers who administer vaccinations in large numbers regularly following the best injection and waste disposal practices.
 
 Talking about the roadmap to ensure coverage across the district, District Immunization Officer (DIO) Dr Jasbir Singh said 488 vaccination teams and 163 supervisors have been deployed to cover about 2,989 schools conducting nearly 4,656 vaccination sessions in the district.
 
 He said both the diseases can be prevented by immunizing children with two doses of this vaccination, which is safe and effective. He said the aim of MR campaign is to accelerate population immunity by reaching 100 percent target children with the vaccine that will reduce cases and deaths from measles and disabilities from Congenital Rubella Syndrome. He said the target is to make state as well as country measles and rubella free by 2020.
 
 On the occasion, assistant civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh, senior medical officer of world health organization Dr Gagan Sharma and others were present.
 
 DC GETS HIS DAUGHTER VACCINATED
 
 Ludhiana: Dimssing the rumours surfacing on social media against the measels-rubella vaccination, The deputy commissioner (DC) Pradeep Kumar Agrawal on Tuesday got his daughter Diya Agrawal vaccinated on the first day of the campaign against measles-rubella.
 
 DC called the health department and asked them to vaccinate his daughter. The DC said the campaign is aimed to eradicate the virus of this fatal disease, which could be very dangerous for children and exhorted the people to give their full support to make the campaign a huge success.
 
 
