BHOPAL: In a shocking pointer of how rampant corruption is among officials in Madhya Pradesh,   data reveals that at least one official was caught taking bribe every second day in 2017, and at least one was punished by court every third day.

 
 This, despite the fact that the state government repeatedly proclaims its policy of ‘zero tolerance for corruption’. Chief minister   recently instructed officials of the department of public relations to keep a close eye on news reports related to corruption and immediately seek a report from the department concerned.
 
 This is the fifth consecutive year when the average is close to one official caught a day taking bribe in Madhya Pradesh. Close to 400 officials have been jailed or fined by courts for taking bribe during the same period. According to Lokayukta figures, 254 officials were caught taking bribe in 2017 and 112 were sentenced to jail. In the past three years, 976 officials have been caught taking bribes by special police establishment and 395 jailed for one to four years. In 2014, 390 people were caught taking bribes up from 359 the previous year. Retired DG, special police establishment, lokayukta, Arun  , however feels that these figures — shocking as they are — do not reflect the actual level of corruption in state, since these are mostly related to traps of class-III employees. Ideally, lokayukta should focus on disproportionate assets cases and offences under section 13D of Lokayukta Act, which is about misuse of power causing loss of revenue.
 
 “It is very unfortunate that in the fight against corruption, the role of normal police has remained zero. It is only the special police establishment, lokayukta, which is working. Madhya Pradesh lokayukta organization is very powerful and SPE is not meant for these petty cases. But since regular police do not entertain these cases, SPE has to take up traps, where only lower-level staffers are caught,” Gurtoo said, adding that there is no coordination between police, EOW and lokayukta. A white paper should be issued on it and police should also investigate cases of corruption at lower levels, he said.
 
