Chennai: The truck sales may be booming but that hasn’t made any dent on the discounts ruling the market.  Truck marketers say that the discount levels continue to rule high even as the market shifts towards higher tonnage and pricier vehicles. Dealer sources say the decision by some truck makers to increase prices may be an attempt to protect margins because they have not managed to neutralise the discounts though truck makers insist that the price hikes are triggered by rise in input costs like steel. “FY18 saw increasing discount trend across the CV industry. In HCV segment particularly, we saw discounts going up by around 10-12% from previous levels during the last year. In recent months, we are seeing some levels of reduction in discounts by larger players and this is a step in the right direction,” said Vinod Sahay, CEO, Mahindra Trucks & Bus Division.  Truck marketers say the discounting is due to a mismatch between installed capacity and demand. Although demand is now in strong double digits across segments, the industry capacity is still higher which is why the discounts continue, said Vinod Aggarwal, MD & CEO, Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles. Also the discounts, he explained, are mostly driven by the negotiation muscle of bigger customers. And so there's great variety in the range and nature of benefits on offer. Many companies, for example, offer lower financing options and others offer low or free annual maintenance contracts all of which are built into the discounts. A big fleet operator gets credit at 8% while smaller players fork out 13-14%. A report by Ind-Ratings shows higher delinquency levels at the bottom of the food chain — used vehicle financing. The report on early delinquency index for CV loans measured by weighted average 30+ days past due (dpd), rose to 7.89% in February 2018 from 6.87% in February 2017. “This was mainly due to demonetisation, GST implementation, migration to BS-IV standard of vehicles and tightening norms of overloading of vehicles which have affected used CV loan borrowers owing to their weaker credit profile,” said the report. “Ind-Ra believes the rising fuel prices with no commensurate rise in freight rates will shrink the operating margins of CV loan operators by 7%-10%, worsening the situation for used CV loan borrowers,'” it added. The prevalent discounts have prompted some analysts to wonder if the recent price markups by truck makers was also an attempt to improve margins. Already the general migration towards higher tonnage vehicles has improved margins for players like Ashok Leyland. However, truck marketers maintain the price hikes are the result of rising cost of inputs like steel and there may be more reviews in the next 6 months. Truck companies are also taking measures to reduce discounting offering additional services and warranty cover as added benefit. “On a weighted average basis we have reduced discount on our HCVs by more than 10% in F18 from its previous levels. We are able to achieve this by increasing our level of Guaranteed Experience promise to include spare parts and service availability. Also recently we introduced warranty of 6 years / 6 lakh KMs and also highest oil drain interval period backed by lowest lube prices,” said Sahay.