Hyderabad: In a boost to defence and aerospace manufacturing in Hyderabad, city-based IT player   Ltd on Wednesday announced that it has inked a pact with Israel-based BlueBird Aero Systems to set up a joint venture to offer UAV systems for defence, paramilitary, security, and police forces in India. The agreement was inked at DefExpo 2018 in Chennai.

 The JV, that has been christened as Cyient Solutions & Systems Pvt Ltd, will have Cyient holding 51% stake and the rest will be with BlueBird, a player in design, development, and production of micro, mini, and small tactical Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS).
 
 According to the release, the JV firm will indigenise, manufacture, assemble, integrate and test advanced UAV systems at its production facilities in Hyderabad by leveraging BlueBird’s technology and manufacturing knowhow. The company will also provide aftermarket services, including spares, repairs, maintenance, and support to end users across India, it added.
 
 According to Cyient, the JV will be setting up a dedicated manufacturing facility over the next six to nine months in Hyderabad to carry out its operations. However, the company did not share investment details.
 
 Commenting on the announcement, Krishna Bodanapu, chief executive officer and managing director, Cyient Ltd, said, “I am very excited about the JV with BlueBird Aero Systems that combines our design and manufacturing expertise to bring the best of UAV technology solutions to the Indian defence industry. The joint venture also underlines the commitment of both partners to the government’s ‘Make in India’ initiative.”
 
 Ronen Nadir, founder and CEO, BlueBird Aero Systems said, “BlueBird is pleased to transfer to Cyient Solutions & Systems its latest, innovative technology and knowhow to further enhance what we see as a long-term partnership with Cyient for the benefit of the Indian UAV market.”
 
 The JV company’s portfolio will include the SpyLite, ThunderB, and MicroB systems that offer UAS technology designed to fulfill covert, real-time intelligence, and tactical mapping-on-demand missions across open areas or crowded urban environments.
 
 According to industry estimates, the Indian UAV market is expected to hit $885.7 million by 2021.
 
 
