INDORE: Conventional ways of self-defence adopted by girls to ward off approaching threats are not enough in current era, principals of 280 colleges were told on Wednesday.

 The principals, who had gathered to take part in an orientation programme on – DAVV’s Smart Girl initiative, found it through practical examples as trainers showed them how to help girls studying in their institutes to gain confidence and develop situational awareness.
 
 
  
  Jain Sangathana, which had formed Smart Girl module for girls, had teamed up with DAVV to train teachers for the initiative. Girls are either unaware or carry impractical solutions for self defence, said organisation’s president Prafulla Parakh.
 
 DAVV has rolled out this two day module for all the institutes affiliated with the university and initially aims to enlighten one lakh girls. It consists of five modules related to decision making, self-respect, self-protection, awareness and conversations with others. 
 
 All the sessions are made interactive and includes- one minute videos, plays and games. Although each trainer has to train 100 girls, they will have to take one session additionally with the parents so that they also support their daughters and do not compare them with anyone.
 
 “We have already trained our students. Most of them are married as it’s a BEd college and they really liked the modules,” said principal,  , Dr  .
 
 While some of the colleges have already completed the module, there are some colleges where the module is still ongoing.
 
 St Paul Institute of Professional Studies (SPIPS) principal Dr Sr Alice Thomas who had sent seven of her teachers to attend the module said, “Our institute has 700 girls. We’ve already trained some of them. The students found the session interactive and influential.”
 
 The master trainers training programme is going on in four districts- Khandwa, Burhanpur, Jhabua and Khargone. They also plan to conduct workshops in Dhar and Barwani district later this month. DAVV vice chancellor Dr NK Dhakad encouraged the principals to send their faculty members for the training sessions and announced that two more workshops will take place in Indore on the March 26 and 27 and March 30 - 31.
 
 
