RODE (MOGA): More than 33 years after the then Sikh seminary Damdami Taksal head, Jarnail Singh  , was killed during Operation Bluestar, a   dedicated to him has come up at his native village Rode in Moga. The village, having a population of nearly 6,000, already has 10 gurdwaras, but residents are anxiously waiting for the opening of the new place of worship built in the memory of Bhinderanwale. 

 Although the gurdwara is being constructed in the memory of Bhinderanwale, Damdami Taksal has not named it after him. The worship place will be called Gurdwara Sant Khalsa and will be thrown open to public on February 22.
 
 According to Bhinderanwale’s family members, the gurdwara will have a photo of him (Bhinderanwale) in the basement. They claim the gurdwara will be a peaceful place, built to propagate religion and fight against repression. Nobody in Rode wants to talk about Khalistan — a separate homeland for Sikhs. The villagers claim that Bhinderanwale was a secular person and respected Hindus equally. They feel the gurdwara will not be a place for hard-line approach. 
 
 Interestingly, the gurdwara has come up at the birthplace of Bhinderanwale, even though his family members, including six brothers, have shifted to  , nearly 3km from Rode. The idea to build a gurdwara at Bhinderanwale’s birthplace was first conceived by Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Dhumma and it has taken over a decade to build it with financial assistance from Sikh ‘sangat’ (community) in India and abroad. 
 
 “The place is dedicated to Bhinderanwale, which will propagate Sikh religion and give a message for all to live peacefully. The Sikh sangat wanted a memory of Sant Ji and we have built it, keeping the sentiments of masses in mind,” said Dhumma. 
 
 “The place will be a befitting tribute to Jarnail Singh. We wanted a memorial and a gurdwara is the best memorial. People here will remember ‘Waheguru’ and recall Bhinderanwale,” said Bhinderanwale’s elder brother Honorary Captain  , who had identified his body on June 7, 1984.
 
 Harcharan, then a Subedar Major in 61 Engineers Regiment, had gone to see the body after hearing the news of Bhinderanwale’s killing on radio. His other brother Harjit said, “I remember everything associated with Jarnail Singh and the gurdwara in his memory will make the Sikhs feel proud.”
 
 Rode residents Mohinder Singh and Gurmukh Singh said their village was known because of Bhinderanwale. “A religious place in his memory will make people from India and abroad visit our village and give it more prominence,” they said.
 
 Another villager, however, sounded a cautionary note, saying propagation of religion was fine “but the gurdwara must not turn into a place to deliver fiery speeches as Punjab has suffered a lot”.
 
 A group of students of the government polytechnic institute at the adjoining   village said they had heard a lot about Bhinderanwale even though he was killed before they were born and that they wanted to see the place built in his memory.
 
 
