 hosted a rather unique celebration of love this   through sessions of speed dating and a   dance workshop at the amphitheatre in the entertainment zone. Organised by a  , the event saw youngsters, including Gurgaon-based working professionals, register themselves for speed dating sessions, where five guys and five girls would interact with each other one-on-one for three minutes each. At the end of the three minutes, each guy would move to his left and talk to a different girl, trying to strike up a conversation.

  
    also enjoyed salsa dancing with their partners 
 
  
  
 
  While most of the participants had fun during the speed dating session, not all of them were overwhelmed with the results. Deeksha, a student, told us, "It was nice. I met a lot of new people but sadly, none of them was my type." However, as some participants said, it was less about finding the 'one' and more about trying something new on Valentine's Day.
 
  
  Delhi-based dancers Shilpi and Sumit conducted a salsa lesson for Gurugrammers
 
  
  
 
 Ranjana, one of the participants in the speed dating session, said, "It was a very new way to meet new people, something you don't get to do these days. Even though there are so many platforms where you can meet new people, most are online and this one was different as it is face-to-face and yet doesn't require your time. I had fun."
 
  
  The participants in the speed dating session said that it was a very new way to meet new people, and a break from online platforms
 
 The speed dating was followed by a salsa lesson for couples conducted by Delhi-based dancers Shilpi and Sumit. The dancers said, "Salsa is a dance of love and there is no better dance form to bring couples together and make them feel in love on Valentine's Day. Couples were taught a few basic steps of the popular dance form, following which they were encouraged to show their moves in the amphitheatre. Gurgaon's Radhika and Karan, who took part in the salsa session, said, "This was a fun new experience, a nice way to celebrate this day, different from just going out."
 
  
  The participants in the speed dating session said that it was a very new way to meet new people, and a break from online platforms
 
 
 
  
 
 
