TRICHY: A dawn-to-dusk general shutdown was observed in Thirumanur town and adjoining villages in Ariyalur district on Saturday to condemn the expansion of a river   on Kollidam riverbed, a distributary of Cauvery. The protesters, who alleged that groundwater table near Kollidam river banks was depleted already claimed that continued operation of the quarry will disrupt comprehensive drinking water scheme supplying potable water to eight districts including  .

 The villagers said that the state government was operating a river sand quarry on Kollidam river bank near Thirumanur for more than a decade. Recently, the government, through district administration proposed to quarry river sand from a new site near the northern part of the existing quarry and works were said to have commenced few days back. Alleging that river sand quarrying has depleted the groundwater table in a drastic manner, farmers approached the Madras high court seeking a stay.
 
 Even as farmers are awaiting a positive reply from the high court, they along with traders, villagers of Thirumanur and adjacent agrarian hamlets observed the shutdown on Saturday. “As many as eight districts including Trichy, Thanjavur, and Ariyalur depend on comprehensive drinking water scheme for which water was sourced from Kollidam bed. Permitting the operation of sand quarry further would affect the water supply to eight districts as the capacity to recharge groundwater will decline due to quarrying,” state secretary, Consortium of Indian Farmers Association, Varanavasi K Rajendran, told TOI.
 
 Besides the threat to comprehensive drinking water scheme, farmers opined that groundwater table in hamlets near Kollidam banks have slipped by 100 feet in the past decade. “As much as 24,000 acres of cultivable lands near Thirumanur rely only on groundwater sourced through expensive borewells as canal-based irrigation was a failure for more than seven years now. With continued quarrying, we are afraid of losing our only source of irrigation,” Rajendran added.
 
 Traders participating in the   in support of Thirumanur farmers downed their shutters on Saturday.
 
 
