KOCHI: Even while newer technologies like electric and LPG-based crematoriums are available here, people prefer firewood-based crematoriums. Only two of the eight crematoriums at Ravipuram and Pachalam respectively, which are run by Kochi corporation, have functioning LPG furnaces.

 As per the data with the corporation, the number of death registered annually with the local body is around 9,000 for the past couple of years. Of these only less than 500 bodies are being cremated in various crematoriums owned by the local body.
 
 
  
 “In Ravipuram, an average of 20-25 bodies would be cremated. Most people prefer firewood. Only one body would be cremated on LPG   per month,” said K C Chandran, custodian of Ravipuram crematorium.
 
 “People here want to collect bones for performing rites. When LPG crematorium is used, it would be difficult for collecting the bones,” he said.
 
 In the two decades preceding 2010, the crematorium had been functioning on electricity. Following complaints that the bodies are not properly burnt, the crematorium’s functioning has become a difficult job. Moreover, KSEB snapped power supply to the crematorium. Later, LPG method was introduced with the support of   in 2012. “There is acute shortage of firewood and we will soon have to switchover to LPG completely,” he said.
 While residents are hesitant to cremate bodies on LPG crematorium, those from north India prefer gas crematorium.
 
 In Pachalam, there are two LPG crematorium and one runs on firewood. “Residents prefer firewood. Meanwhile, north Indians opt for LPG. In Kochi, people require bones of the deceased to perform the rites. But, north Indians require just the ashes,” said V M Chandrasekharan, contractor of Pachalam crematorium. “If more people prefer gas, it will help decrease pollution,” he said.
 
 In Palluruthy, there were two LPG and firewood furnaces when it was renovated in 2005. “Within two or three years, the LPG furnaces developed technical snags. Even when there were LPG, people choose firewood,” said  , contractor of the crematorium. There had been little efforts on the part of authorities to get the LPG system repaired.
 
 Satheesh Kumar, secretary of BDJS Ernakulam constituency committee, said the ope rators or contractors also prefer firewood. “For running LPG system, there should be electricity also. The blowers, which suck air from outside and extinguish smoke from the furnace chamber would be running on electricity. So, they will have to pay for electricity besides buying LPG cylinders,” Kumar said.
 
 “Even the crematoriums with LPG facility, the contractors would damage the machines to go back to firewood method,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Ernakulam   had submitted a proposal to the the corporation for constructing a 10-storey crematorium. “It is high time we move on to LPG system completely,” said P Ramachanran, general secretary, Ernakulam Karayogam. “We had submitted a proposal to the corporation for constructing a 10-storey crematorium if the local body lease out Ravipuram crematorium to us for 50 years. We would offer facilities for all human beings without considering caste, creed and religion. But, the local body hasn’t responded to our call so far,” he said.
 
 As per the Karayogam’s plan, the basement would be earmarked for parking, while the office can function from the first floor. In the second and third floor, there would be conference halls. Fourth floor would house the ash chambers. The topmost floors can be earmarked for crematoriums. 
 
 “So, we will be able to comply with the pollution control board (PCB) norm that the chimney or smoke pipe should have a height of more than 100m,” Ramachandran said.
 
 
