When the schedule for the IPL is announced most teams look up where their first game is likely to be played and then when the game is in their favourite or lucky venue. The smart captains and coaches see where their last couple of games are and against whom. That is where they know the qualifying for play-offs could well be decided and if it's at their home ground then it's that much better for then they can pick their side accordingly as well as have a pitch that suits their strength. They will also get an idea of how many runs they need if it boils down to the net run-rate to qualify.

 
 The Delhi and Chennai teams captains and coaches would have rubbed their hands in glee after this year's schedule came out for they are scheduled to play the last game of the league before the play-offs start and that gives them a terrific idea of the tactics and approach needed to get through or get in the top two.
 
 Delhi of course are out of it once again mainly due to poor selection of the playing eleven. The problem of having a coach who hasn't seen the domestic players was evident when young   was picked to play after the team was out of the running for the play-offs. The young man showed how he would have fitted right in and though one performance does not mean much, it's just the attitude and approach that was so refreshing to see and which Delhi could have done with especially when some of their fancied overseas players have been more of a no show than the big show that they were expected to be.
 
  
  
 The Bangalore team is blessed with the likes of   who go out of their way to try lift their team and they will be hoping for another super performance from him to get them into the play-offs. The Rajasthan team also had two super triers -   and Ben Stokes and though the latter was unable to make the impact he did last season, it wasn't for lack of trying. Just to see him diving all over the place showed the kind of commitment he had. Young Joffra archer is only going to get better the more he plays and if he focuses a bit more on his batting he could be the kind of all-rounder every skipper dreams of.
 
 Sunrisers may have lost narrowly to the Royal Challengers but their spirited chase of a huge target was enthralling stiff. The skipper Williamson gets better with every match and his innings in Bangalore had power besides the classic shots that are the hallmark of his batting. They will want to finish their home matches with a win that will take them to the top of the table. 
 
 For Dinesh Karthik and his Knight Riders they will be keen to keep the momentum going. Kuldeep Yadav getting his confidence back is a big plus for them as they could well be playing for a place in the finals at their fortress, the Eden Gardens.
 
