Kolkata: The corporate war for the control of Braj Binani Group cement outfit Binani Cement took a new turn on Wednesday. Aditya Birla Group cement giant UltraTech has said that it has received an approval from the Competition Commission of India (CCI) for a possible takeover of Binani group firm. However, Dalmia Cement group CEO Mahendra Singhi said a CCI approval does not carry any marking criteria in the insolvency resolution under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC), 2016. 

 Initially, Dalmia Cement (Bharat) was the highest bidder (H1) followed by Ultratech for Binani Cement. After Dalmia Bharat offered Rs 6,350 crore and was declared the top bidder on February 27, UltraTech raised its offer substantially. Eventually, on March 19, UltraTech concluded a deal with Binani Industries for sale of 98.43% stake in the cement-maker for Rs 7,266 crore.
 
 Even without rejecting UltraTech’s revised bid, Binani Cement’s committee of creditors (CoC) approved a resolution plan with Dalmia Bharat as the highest bidder. Amid opposition from the Braj Binani Group and UltraTech, the plan was filed earlier this month with the NCLT for its approval.
 
 The Dalmia Cement Group CEO said, “The evaluation criteria for the bids was fair and made known to all the bidders before the bids. We state emphatically that the likelihood of obtaining the CCI approval by a bidder was not at all a criterion in bid evaluation. In fact, CCI approval was contemplated to be a post-NCLT approval step and hence, had been made a carved-out condition precedent to the resolution plans of all the resolution applicants.”
 
 According to him, the only criterion involving regulatory orders was whether any adverse regulatory order, including an adverse CCI order imposing penalties, had been passed against the bidder over the last five years. No evidence has been cited to show that the CoC and its advisers did not make a correct assessment of bids.
 
 “The reasons cited by the unsuccessful bidder for its failed bid, in stock exchange filings and press interviews, are misleading. Dalmia Bharat made the highest financial bid and had also obtained the highest score in the evaluation,” Singhi added.
 
 
