Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com

 The  , along with  , organized an educational moon gazing activity during the lunar eclipse this Thursday. The foundation had set up eight telescopes in the school garden area for kids and their parents. The school registered a turnout of more than 500 guests. They had also organised a chand ki dawat, for the guests to have snacks during the eclipse, to break the myth of no food during an eclipse.
 
 
  
  Students of DAV Public School take part in the activity (BCCL/ Lokesh Kashyap)
 
 "We are an educational foundation and we are always delighted to organize such events. These activities give students first-hand experience of an amazing space wonder. This eclipse is unique and now the kids can have a real view of it," said Sakshi Sharma from Space India.
 
 The school also took an active part in the activity. Charu Maini, Principal, DAV Public School, said, "We got this opportunity and we took it. The response was outstanding. I kept receiving calls from nearby localities and schools asking to attend but we had a protocol of only letting people with kids get in after producing an ID card due to security reasons. I am sure the kids have enjoyed it." The activity was attended by students from Amity School, DPS Shushant Lok, NC Jindal School and Lotus Valley, among others.
 
 
 
  
  The school had also set up photo booths for the kids 
 
 The students were also given prior information on the eclipse and were shown presentations and short films by   so that they could make the most of it. "I have been studying about the eclipse for over a week now. We were shown presentations and films. We were all very excited," said Shreya, a class VIII student.
 
 Parents were also welcomed by the organizers and they also participated in the activity. "With the high rises in Gurgaon, it's hard to even see the moon and today we can see it so beautifully. I am happy my kids can experience this. In terms of education, it greatly helps that we can see such an eclipse for real and not just read about it in books," said  , one of the parents.
 
 
  
  Students also dressed up as astronauts
 
 Pooja Yadav, another member of the organising team, informed that it took 15-20 days to organise the event. Workshops were organised for children to understand the whole phenomenon better and even teachers were given study material by the foundation.
 
 A similar activity took place at The Ardee School, Sector 52, Gurgaon. The school organised a presentation and workshop for the students and had telescopes set up for the kids to see the eclipse. The school organised an educative session, prior to the eclipse to address any queries from the students.
 
  
  Students relished the chand ki dawat, organised to bust the myth that one shouldn’t eat during the eclipse
 
  
  One of the students at the event
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
