MUMBAI: An 18-year-old college student died after he fell off a running train from a 30ft bridge ahead of   station and landed on the tracks below on Monday evening. Another train ran over him, amputating his legs. 

 The police said   lost balance when he came to the coach exit to spit and fell. Gurav, who had recently cleared his class XII exams, lived in Khar (E) with his parents. On Monday, he and his friend Kunal   decided to go to south Mumbai for an outing. Their college is closed for summer vacation.
 
 “Parwadi told us   went to the exit of the general compartment around 4.15 pm to spit. The train was in speed and there was a sudden jerk as it changed tracks. Gurav had not anticipated the jerk and lost his balance. He landed on the tracks nearly 25-30ft below,” said inspector Satish Pawar, Wadala GRP.
 
 The police said the duo boarded a CSMT-bound Harbour local from Khar station. Around 4.15pm, the train was between King’s Circle and Wadala stations. Harbour locals plying on this line have to descend a bridge before reaching Wadala station. 
 
 Residents of the adjacent slum colonies raised an alarm as they saw Gurav fall. Seconds later, a Vashi-CSMT bound local, running on the tracks below the bridge, knocked down Gurav. The train was detained for five to seven minutes as passengers got down on the tracks to check on the teenager.
 
 One of Gurav’s legs was amputated below the knee and he lost the other foot, besides sustaining head injuries. “The accident took place half a kilometre before Wadala station. Parwadi got off the train at Wadala and informed the police. We rushed Gurav to   hospital, but he was declared dead before admission. His family was immediately,” said an official.
 
 A case of accidental death was recorded. Gurav’s body will be handed over to his family after a post-mortem, said an official.
 
 Since January, more than 1,000 commuters have been killed on the tracks and another 1,100 have suffered injuries in accidents in the city.
 
 
