Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of injured victims of pesticides inhalation, the Nagpur bench of   on Wednesday, directed the Maharashtra government to include them while framing the compensation policy for the deceased’s families. The government was further told to reimburse the injured farmers and farm labourers. 
 
 The directives came while hearing a civil application by social worker Jammu Anand through counsel Arvind Waghmare demanding enhanced compensation for the victims who were injured. It was filed in the PIL by him citing several media reports, including that of TOI, contending that over 700 other farmers were admitted in the hospitals in entire Vidarbha with respiratory problems and about 25-30 lost their eyesight, due to failure in implementing Insecticides Act, 1968. 
  
 Anand contended that the government had just offered Rs5,000 to the injured victims, which was highly insufficient. He demanded to hike that amount to at least Rs25,000 and Rs4 lakh to those who lost their eyesight and become permanently disabled. He also prayed for granting reimbursement to those victims towards their medical expenses in government and private hospitals. 
  
 While disposing of the PIL by petitioner, the HC had directed government to double compensation to Rs4 lakh each to the families of deceased farmers and farm-labourers. It was further told to complete a departmental inquiry against the concerned officials responsible for the deaths of over 52 persons, within six weeks. They could file criminal offences if serious cases of negligence by the authorities was found during the probe. 
  
 The HC asked   (DLSA) to conduct awareness programmes for farmers for safely using insecticides before the onset of monsoon. The victims and their families were granted liberty to draw their estimate of losses and move to the court against state’s chief secretary, principal secretary (agriculture), agriculture commissioner and   collector, seeking a higher amount. 
  
 After the PIL was filed seeking setting up of a SIT to probe the pesticide deaths, the panel headed by divisional commissioner ( )   submitted its report on January 27. But it hadn’t fixed the responsibility of any of the official. On this, the petitioner had sought a judicial inquiry into the matter. 
  
  
