PUNE: The Warje police on Saturday arrested one of the three suspects who had robbed a tour and travel company operator of his car, cash and cellphone, totally worth Rs 5.11 lakh, late on Thursday night. 

 The tour and travel company owner Devendra Murkute (42), a resident of Vadgaonsheri, had lodged a complaint with the police after the robbery incident. The police had registered the case after verifying the sequence of events. Murkute had also told the police that one of the robbers was brandishing a gun.
 
 The suspects had forcibly taken away Murkute’s car after dumping him at a place along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass at Narhe. 
 
 A team headed by senior inspector Bajirao Mole and sub-inspector Sachin Nikam of Warje police station nabbed Krishna Kamble (20) of Dattawadi on Sinhagad Road for his alleged involvement in the robbery. Police are hunting for Kamble’s two accomplices.
 
 Nikam said Murkute has been running his business for the last few years and supplies cars on hire. According to Murkute’s complaint, one of the suspects called him on his cellphone and booked the car. The person who called Murkute told him that they needed a cab to travel from Warje to Bibvewadi. 
 
 Nikam told TOI, “It was a local booking for the entire day. The caller had promised to pay his charges. As decided, Murkute picked them up from Warje and was supposed to drop them at Bibvewadi after taking them to two to three places in the city.”
 
 “However, around 6.30pm, the suspects took the car to Warje and one of them pulled out a revolver and threatened Murkute. The suspects, then, forced him to drive the car towards Narhe on the bypass. On the way, they snatched Rs 8,000 and his cellphone. The suspects pushed Murkute out of his car at Narhe and sped away,” Nikam said.
 
 “We are yet to locate the car, but it is suspected that they drove towards Satara. Kamble is being interrogated in the case,” he said.
 
 Police said Kamble and his accomplices, including the prime suspect, have criminal antecedents. They suspect they booked the car in osrder to rob it and that it was a preplanned robbery. 
 
 Earlier on April 21, the   police had traced within four hours a car after a Mumbai resident was robbed of it by a person at Wakad chowk. The car, worth Rs 6.50 lakh, was fitted with Global Positioning System, which helped in getting it back immediately.
 
 Pradip Alhat (35), a resident of Gawarewadi in Hinjewadi, was arrested by the police for robbing the car. The owner of the car,   (23), had come to Pune from Mumbai for some work.
 
 
