MUMBAI:   on Monday directed that a report by a two-member committee appointed to check allegations of   damage by   of Nahar Amrit Shakti township in   be placed before it. A division bench of Justices Abhay Oka and Riyaz Chagla was hearing a public interest litigation filed by local resident, Prakash Agrawal, who alleged there was no environmental clearance for the project and a hillock was damaged by the builders. The court has scheduled the matter for directions on April 4.

 “Between 2004-17, the developers constructed an area of over 5 lakh sq metres without required prior environmental clearance and social impact assessment in violation of principles of sustainable development,” said the PIL. “Large structures have been constructed without necessary  . The developer has not provided requisite recreational garden spaces and other amenities. Construction of the 90ft and 60ft roads is not completed,” the petitioner said. The PIL also alleged ecological damage, saying trees had been cut without undertaking replantation. The petition claimed a hillock in the area had been cut, reducing its size from 75,000 sq metres to 30,000 sq metres. 
 
 The PIL urged the court to stay further development and initiate an enquiry into how the project went ahead without permission.
 
 Senior advocate Milind Sathe, counsel for Nahar Builders, refuted the allegations and said all permission was in place. The advocate said the petitioner could not have filed the PIL as he lived in the same area and was an interested party. The advocate claimed Agrawal had initiated multiple proceedings, including the HC, consumer forum and National Green Tribunal.
 
 The bench said the issues would have to be looked into and allowed Agrawal to delete prayers in the PIL that sought directives against private parties. Last year, the HC had set up a two-member committee comprising the secretary of the Maharashtra State Legal Aid Services Authority and a court receiver to verify if undertakings given by the developer that they would maintain the ecology of the area by planting trees and preserving the topography of the area. The HC directed that the report be submitted before the bench.
 
 
