NEW DELHI: The exit of   from the   ministry is seen as fallout of his “soft” approach towards the J&K CM and the inclusion of Kathua MLA Rajiv Jasrotia is intended to reassure BJP’s base in Jammu even as the reshuffle signals that the coalition with   will continue.

 
 Singh’s replacement is indicative of BJP’s view that he did not articulate the party stand adequately and comes after PDP spared no effort to put its partner in the dock over the Kathua rape-and-murder case. While   came under fire for its leaders supporting the call for a CBI probe into the crime — raised by those claiming the Hindu accused were framed — it believed PDP also played to the political gallery in the Valley.
 
 The wholesale reshuffle of BJP ministers, including Singh who was deputy CM, also indicates that the coalition, despite its sharp angularities, will remain in place. “The government will continue. On the whole, we think there is no reason to end the coalition,” a BJP source said. The decision could be rooted in the calculation that J&K adds to the tally of governments with a BJP presence and larger political interests are served with a political buffer in the terror-hit state.
 
 Continuance of the coalition is likely to be read as a setback to hardline and separatist elements in the Valley that see the PDP-BJP alliance as an accommodation of Hindutva. 
 
 The appointment of Jasrotia as a minister is seen as a message to Mufti and a bid to repair BJP’s standing among Hindus in the Jammu region. Jasrotia was on the forefront of the attack on the Mufti government and was part of the rally in which two ministers had participated but had to resign after PDP objections and wider public outrage. 
 
 The ministers, Lal Singh and Chandra Prakash, had to quit early this month. BJP sources maintained that the recent experience was not comfortable as the CM had taken several decisions without seeking their views and the stonewalling of a CBI probe was one of them. BJP objected to what it felt was a “heavy handed” approach to the Kathua probe and the CM’s order stalling the anti-encroachment drive in tribal areas in Jammu region. 
 
 Nirmal Singh, meanwhile, denied he was soft on CM. “We used to take a stand in cabinet meetings, which can’t be brought in public domain. Besides, as deputy CM, I had to maintain dignity of the post and couldn’t squabble even in case of differences,” Singh said 
 
 Terming the reshuffle a “normal exercise”, BJP general secretary and in-charge of J&K Ram Madhav said it had nothing to do with the Kathua crime. However, he dodged questions over the inclusion of the Kathua MLA. “This has nothing to do with it (Kathua case). Our government has completed three years and an opportunity has been given to new faces,” Madhav said.
 
 
