KANYAKUMARI: The taluk government hospital in   achieved a rare feat recently by successfully performing a total hip replacement surgery on a 43-year-old woman who was suffering from bilateral avascular necrosis (rotting of the hips). The hospital, which does not possess necessary equipment for the surgery, rented the same and completed it for just Rs 30,000. The woman is fast recovering and will be discharged before Monday.

 Orthopaedic surgeon Siddharth Raveendran, 31, who performed the surgery told TOI that the patient Y Pushpalatha from   near   could not go to work as she was suffering from asthma for more than five years. As she did not respond to medication in various government and private hospitals she was taking steroids for the past two years.
 
 “Heavy intake of steroids resulted in bilateral avascular necrosis. While both hips were affected, the condition of the left hip worsened to grade three (serious), compared to the right where it was grade one (a little better). She could not attend to herself when she came here six weeks ago,” he said.
 
 Elaborating on the condition, the doctor said that it is due to stop in blood supply to femur, resulting in rotting of the hip. “This could even result in fractures or other serious arthritic problems,” he added. Surgery was inevitable but the woman facing difficulty in meeting everyday needs and could not mobilise more than Rs 2 lakh needed to undergo surgery.
 
 Doctors in   confirmed that she was covered under the chief minster’s comprehensive health insurance scheme. But the GH did not have equipment to perform the surgery. “It would cost Rs 12 lakh to buy imported equipment and not less than Rs 5 lakh for an Indian make. So we got permission and hired equipment at just Rs 500. Implants cost Rs 25,000 and other consumables cost less than Rs 4,000,” the doctor said. On April 4, Raveendran who has performed replacements in private hospitals before joining government service three months ago, anaesthetist N Shivakumar and their team performed the surgery for Pushpalatha. She was on her feet the day after the surgery and started walking the second day. 
 
 
