SHIMLA:   Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mukesh Agnihotri on Monday claimed that   (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal and family was monopolizing Volvo bus service in Himachal Pradesh. Attacking chief minister   government on the issue, Agnihotri questioned if the cartelization was taking place due to the consent of government.

 While starting the debate on budget in the state assembly, Agnihotri said around 250 Volvo buses were operating from Manali, Dharamshala and Shimla and monopolization would result in losses to the state government-owned HRTC that has a big stake in Volvo bus operation.
 
 Replying to the allegation, transport minister   said Volvo buses of local people were being bought by outside companies. He added that all Volvo buses operating from Kullu, Mandi and Dharamshala were registered outside the state.
 
 Thakur said during the previous Congress regime, residents of Himachal Pradesh were not allowed to buy vehicles and permission was granted to buy only two Volvo buses in Mandi that too on court directions.
 
 The transport minister said that during the previous regime, bus operators in the state were being harassed as could be seen in the number of buses challaned. He added that if any mafia was trying to monopolize the Volvo service then it would not be tolerated by the government.
 
 Companies owned by the Badals dominate road transport business in Punjab and now it is being reported that their companies had also started buying smaller luxury bus firms of Himachal Pradesh, especially in Manali and Dharamshala.
 
 While speaking to TOI, Agnihotri said that Himachal Pradesh was a travel destination having limited air connectivity and road transportation was the major source of transportation and Volvo and luxury bus service was in great demand among the tourists and locals to travel outside the state. He added that monopolization the luxury bus service would end livelihood of hundreds of people, besides it would cause losses to state exchequer too.
 
 While starting the debate on budget, Agnihotri asked whether the state government would bring Rs 50,000 crore from Centre under bailout package. He said that if this was not done by July-August then nothing would come from Centre as “Delhi government” was already in last year of its term.
 
 He said in the budget the CM claimed to have launched many schemes but they were actually old schemes of Congress regime and only their names were changed. “The government has just given lollipops in the name of small schemes,” he said.
 
