PATNA: Technical experts in   have welcomed the allocation of Rs1 crore for preliminary engineering-cum-traffic survey for the third line on the 335km-long Mughalsarai-Patna-Kiul mainline under Danapur division of the   (ECR).

 Experts also lauded the   efforts for approving a reconnaissance engineering-cum-traffic survey for about 45km-long new line between Jehanabad and Arwal in the current fiscal. The track doubling proposal between   and Kiul would give a boost to traffic movement on the route, they said.
 
 Sources said the merged Union budget for 2016-2017 fiscal had also allocated Rs1.5 crore to assess the feasibility and submit a survey report to railway ministry for building a third line between Mughalsarai and Kiul on the mainline section of Danapur division, but no progress was made on this front. Consequently, scepticism prevails over completion of the survey work for the third line this time too.
 
 The Mughalsarai-Jhajha mainline route has reached about 160% saturation point, leading to unnecessary detention of passenger trains at outer signals and roadside stations. Both Down and Up lines have been existing in the division since pre-independence era. “It is ironical that passenger and goods trains are running on the same tracks, throwing safety rules to the wind. Thus, a third line between Mughalsarai and Kiul is badly needed to decongest traffic on this line,” an ECR official said.
 
 According to sources, railway ministry had allocated Rs61 lakh in 2016 as well to carry out a survey between Buxar and Mokama for a third line. Though a corresponding survey report was submitted to the Railway Board in time, it failed to make much progress except sanctioning survey work.
 
 According to sources, the initial report had mentioned a few hiccups likely to arise between Gulzarbagh and   stations due to congestion near the tracks. The report had, however, suggested a third line near the congested area by adopting elevated track technology, sources said. 
 
 Danapur division has, of late, witnessed an astronomical increase in the number of passenger trains. As many as 280 passenger trains and 40 goods trains pass through this division every day.
 
 
