NEW DELHI:   in   seeking government aid will now have to sign an affidavit that they will accept any cow rescued from   or smuggling by the authorities and be open to surprise inspections and videography of their premises by the government.
 
  The affidavit on a Rs 100 stamp paper will have to be submitted to the newly formed   that is in charge of the wellbeing of bovines in the state, a senior state government official said.
  
  The move comes at a time when most cow shelters in the state are overflowing with cattle due to strict implementation of the ban on slaughter and smuggling of bovines, and there have been deaths reported from some of them, including one in CM Yogi Adityanath’s Gorakhpur.
  
  According to the state official, the in-charge of any registered cow shelter accepting aid from the state will also have to swear on the affidavit that he will take proper medical care of the bovines and ensure “scientific disposal” of dead animals. “It is clear to me that the authorities can do a surprise inspection and photography/videography of my premises and I will not pose any obstacle in the same,” says a specimen of the affidavit that ET has reviewed.
  
  The shelter in-charge will have to specify the number of bovines he has, if they have been housed in proper shelters, and the area that is available to them for grazing. A five-member committee in each district, headed by the district magistrate and district senior superintendent of police (SSP), will vet the affidavit, check the ground reality in the shelter and inform UP Gau Sewa Aayog, said the official cited earlier.
  
  As per the guidelines, cow shelters will have to submit to the government their expenditure and income accounts certified by a chartered accountant for the last three years and aid they have received from the Centre, state and from donations by private persons.
  
  While specifying the total count of cows held by them, tabulated as per their age, a cow shelter will also have to tell the government the number of cows with them which were rescued by either the police or the administration from being illegally slaughtered or smuggled. Any income made by the gaushala from sale of cow byproducts will also have to be mentioned to the government.
  
