THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister   will inaugurate the hi-tech school project, aimed to make 45,000 classrooms in 4,775 government and aided schools in the state hi-tech, at a function to be held at   in the state capital at 12 noon on Monday. 

 The project is being formally launched after a successful piloting in 139 schools in Alappuzha, Puthukkad, Kozhikode North and Thaliparamba assembly constituencies. These schools will be connected via video conferencing at the event.
 
 Under the project, the schools have been assigned with the responsibility of ensuring clean dust-free classrooms (with tiled flooring, secure ceiling and painted walls) along with electrification and shelves, as a pre-requisite for getting the information and communication technology ( ) equipment. KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education) would be providing laptops, multimedia projectors, mounting kit, sound system and broadband internet for 45,000 classrooms, in addition to multifunction printers, digital cameras, HD webcams for each school lab along with surveillance systems.
 
 Vijayan will also inaugurate the ' ', which will feature over 1 lakh students. The 'Hi-School Kuttikootam programme, a part of the Public Education Rejuvenation Mission of the state government through which students were given intensive training in five areas (animation, cyber safety, Malayalam computing, hardware and electronics), has been structurally upgraded in student police cadets model, to form 'Little Kites IT Clubs', and is all set to become the largest student IT network in the country.
 
 The 'Samagra' e-resource portal, 'Sampoorna' school management system and SchoolWiki have also been equipped for hi-tech school project. In addition to these, KITE has also provided broadband internet connectivity to all schools and is undertaking the hardware clinics and e-waste disposal programmes. 
 
 KITE was the first special purpose vehicle to receive the funding from Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board.
 
 "We have completed all arrangements for making 22,618 classrooms hi-tech within one month as the first phase and the ICT hardware distribution for these schools will start from January 22 in all districts," said K  , the vice-chairman and executive director of KITE. The 2nd and 3rd phases of ICT hardware deployment would be undertaken in March and May, to ensure completion of the process before the next academic year.
 
 
