CHENNAI: The proprietor of a   for the  , which came under the scanner for ferrying two senior citizens and a   in a van with  , admitted it was a mistake on the part of the home’s staff. 

 Under fire over the incident, Father Thomas, founder of St Joseph’s hospice, met the media on Tuesday to present his version of what had happened. He said, on February 20, a staff driver had gone to the hospice’s reception centre in Tambaram to pick up two elderly people and transport them to its bigger facility at   in   district. “We have an ambulance and a van for our Tambaram unit. That day, our ambulance was at the workshop,” said Thomas. When the driver arrived at the unit after buying vegetables, a staff there informed that one of the inmates had died. “Instead of doing two trips, he decided to do one – with the vegetables, two elderly and the corpse – without informing us,” he said. “It was a mistake, an error of judgement.” 
 
 Thomas, a pastor, runs five palliative-care facilities in the state. Following the February 20 incident, a team headed by the revenue district officer, conducted an inspection at the hospice, which sits on a sprawling 16-acre campus in Paleswaram village. Inspections revealed that the hospice’s licence had expired in September. On Monday, 86 of the 285 inmates in the home were moved out.
 
 Thomas said he had applied for licence renewal in September, two weeks before it was due for expiry. “As part of the renewal we submitted fire-safety and building stability certificate. The sanitary certificate was being delayed by officials for reasons which we don’t know,” said the pastor, waving a sheaf of letters he wrote to the health department, pushing for sanitary inspections of his facility. He maintained that the details of all the inmates in the facility were well documented. “We only take destitute after we receive a police memo or a discharge summary from hospitals,” he said.
 
 The home also came under scrutiny for storing the dead in concrete vaults. Father Thomas called it a “scientific process” that is followed in Kerala. “We’ve buried around 1,600 people this way since 2011,” he said, furnishing a 2014 correspondence he received from Kancheepuram collector along with the superintendent of police. “Most of the people in our hospice are terminally ill. Sometimes we see up to three deaths a day,” he said, adding that the village administrative officer is intimated every time an inmate dies. 
 
 Officials said the probe into allegations of abuse at the hospice is still underway and the remaining inmates will be shifted out this week. 
 
 
