CHENNAI: Even though chances of winning the   are fast disappearing for both   and  , there will be plenty at stake for both the teams when they square off in the Madrid Derby at the Bernabeu on Sunday.

 
 The erratic domestic form which had affected Real Madrid early on is now a thing of the past and Zinedine Zidane’s men are fighting for the second spot. Real are currently third with 63 points, only four behind their crosstown rivals.
 
 On top of that,   has been unstoppable in 2018 — his most spectacular contribution coming in Real’s Champions League first-leg win against Juventus, when the Portuguese scored from a back-volley.
 
 When the two teams take the field on Sunday at Metropolitano, a lot will be riding on Ghanaian  , who will share the responsibility of stopping Ronaldo. But the Atletico midfielder insists Real are not just about Ronaldo. “We know how dangerous Ronaldo can be but it’s not just about stopping him alone. We are going to play the whole team. With a bit of experience, I can say that it is more difficult to stop midfielders like Toni Kroos and Luka Modric. They play deep and you don’t even realise when they will convert defence into attack. So we have to be on high alert. But we also have good players that Real should be worried of,” Partey told TOI during an exclusive chat facilitated by La Liga and Sony from Madrid on Saturday.
 
 Partey said it will be crucial that Atletico play an error-free game if they want to come back with three points. “We know how Real play. In recent games, they have shown tremendous form. So it’s not going to be an easy game at all. I feel it’s a more important game for us because if we win, it will keep us in the title race. So we won’t be satisfied with anything else but a win. We have to do our homework well and play a complete game. We know Real can punish us if we make the slightest of mistakes, so the key will be to make less errors,” Partey said.
 
 The midfielder’s rise through the Atletico ranks has been meteoric. Till last season, the Ghanaian wasn’t a regular and only got five starts. But he has been one of the major contributors for Atletico this time. Being a holding midfielder, he showed tremendous technical skills and has impressed with off-the-ball movement and game reading skills. Such has been his influence that the Ghanaian has established himself as a pivotal figure in Diego Simeone’s side, making 27 appearances, including European competitions.
 
 Paired with the veteran Gabi, the 24-year-old has been fearless in his tackles. At times, he also showed an aggressive approach and went to score three goals this season. “From the wings to midfield, I used to play everywhere last season. So I found it hard to settle in a particular role. But that has changed. The coach played me in the middle where I prefer to play. With hard work and support from the team, I have improved my game. Now, there is a sense that I belong to the team and I feel important,” Thomas said.
 
 
