CHENNAI: There is no end in sight to the strike called by the Tamil   Producers Council (TFPC), which has held back   of at least 25 films in the last five weeks. The protest may be put on the backburner for the time-being as the film   is set to lend its voice this Sunday for the formation of   and closure of   copper plant.

 Tamil New Year (April 14), which saw big-banner releases like ‘Pa Paandi’ and ‘Theri’ over the last two years, has no releases announced this year. The strike began as a protest against ‘exorbitant’   (VPF) charged by   (DSPs), but has since moved on to focus on other concerns such as online booking charge and ticket pricing.
 
 When the protest began on March 1, the Vishal-led TFPC accused DSPs such as Qube of reneging on their promise of transferring ownership of its digital projectors to the 1,100   in Tamil Nadu. Qube co-founder Senthil Kumar says that the claim is unfounded. “The contract agreements signed with theatre owners here is vastly different from what we signed with theatres abroad. There is no clause which necessitates transfer of ownership,” says Senthil.
 
 During a recent press interaction, Vishal asked that DSPs should stop collecting VPFs by the end of 2018 as is the practice worldwide. To this, Senthil says that Qube signed agreements on a ‘recoupment’ basis with theatres abroad, whereas the agreements signed with TN theatres is on a ‘service’ basis. “Abroad, theatres pay $100 per show as VPF, while we charge lesser than Rs 325 per show in TN,” says Senthil. The Tamil film industry has not called DSPs for talks over the last two weeks even as the strike continues to affect the livelihood of about 5 lakh artists and technicians.
 
 Senthil says that there is no rationale in producers complaining about VPF as it constitutes only 2% of the production cost of a film. To illustrate his point, Senthil says that producer of the hit film ‘Aruvi’, which drew several crores in profit, paid a VPF of only Rs 30 lakh. “VPF is four times less than the cost of analogue film printing,” added Senthil.
 
 
