His days begin with music, whether he is at home composing or at the studio. As he puts it, there is a saadhakam going on in the mind, as the moments casually pass by. 

 “Even as we speak, raag Jhinjhoti and its varied notations are playing in my mind,” says Pandit  , who completes 30 years as a musician this year.
  He was no more than 22 when he left for Pune in search of a guru after studying Carnatic music in Government Music College in Chittoor. Today, he has numerous State Film and TV Awards, Sangeet Natak Akademi award and even a National Award to his credit, but the 59-year-old says his biggest achievement is something he earned decades ago when he was a newbie in the field. 
 
  “Being interested in Hindustani music, I had gone to Pune to find a guru. After listening to a concert by   in one of the evenings, I found his number, called him straightaway and took an appointment to meet him,” says the singer, who hails from a family of musicians in Kannur. “Generally, people are so respectful to him that nobody makes such straight demands. I, being this naïve and fresh-off-the-boat outsider, had the audacity to walk into his home around 10 am the next day. His two Doberman dogs welcomed me and I got to meet Guruji in some time,” he recalls. 
 
  When he expressed the intention of his visit, Jasraj asked him to sing and he did — a few classical numbers and the Hindustani tracks he knew at that time. “He listened to me and said, ‘Continue singing Carnatic music. In three years, you can earn a name for yourself. I can recommend you to my good friend Balamurali Krishna and ask him to guide you. Don’t waste your time here.”
 
  The response disheartened a young Ramesh, who said, “It’s your music that I wanted to learn,” and was all teary-eyed. But as he was about to leave, Jasraj called him back. ‘Can you stay back in Mumbai? I am very busy and you will have to surrender some solid time for this’, he said. I got permission to stay at his home and study. That’s the biggest achievement in my life, so far — earning his discipleship,” Ramesh recalls. 
 
  The singer says that he is still learning from Jasraj and he feels like a family member now, more than a guru. “I am also soon sending my daughter Madhushree to study under guruji in Mumbai,” he says. 
 
 But how easy has it been for a Hindustani musician to gain acceptance in Kerala, where there are more Carnatic loyalists, presumably? Ramesh explains, “I remember that my very first concert here, years ago, had a packed house. From my observation, be it Carnatic or Hindustani, the genres have their own set of loyalists and wherever you go, they ensure their attendance. So, gaining acceptance isn’t a thing of worry for the classical musicians here.”
  Recently, he won the National Award in the non-feature film category. And his song Poi Maranja Kaalam for the film Viswasapoorvam Manoor also won K J Yesudas an award. Ramesh says laurels often surprise him, arriving when he least expects them. “Often, the works for which you tend to expect some recognition would go unnoticed and those you hardly think about win awards. It’s a funny plight.” 
 
  How much has film music given him satisfaction? “A lot. I decide how to implement my music in films and I mix it with all kinds of musical flavours I love. Being an ardent fan of western classical music, I use it in many of my songs. For instance, in my song Mukilin Makale from the film Makalkku, you can notice it in the chord progressions.”
  Composing for films has its own challenges too. “While working on Veeraputhran, I wasn’t able to compose music for the song Kannodu Kannoram, despite trying hard. It just eluded me. With great difficulty, I finally managed to tune it after two months! The song though won Shreya Ghoshal a State Award, and Jayaraj once told me that he has never heard such a treatment of raag Abheri,” he recalls.
 
  Ask him about the toughest phase in his musical journey and he says, “Maybe, my time in Mumbai can be called an era of struggle with me cycling 20 to 25 km to learn rare ragas and taalas from about four different gurus in addition to Pandit Jasraj. But, the thing with music is that the process of studying is so joyful that these struggles are irrelevant,” he says. 
  On the journey ahead, he says, “I’m not much of a planner. But I will soon be heading an international music institute based out of Mumbai and I want to teach the compositions of Swathi Tirunal to the students there. I also want to give better exposure and opportunities to Hindustani students of Kerala through this platform.”
  He also has a mega programme, Loka Samasta Sukhino Bhavandu, aimed at world peace conducted as a tribute to all gurus, coming up in the UAE on November 2. “About 100 artistes, who have so far collaborated with me, including K J Yesudas, Shankar Mahadevan and Shreya Ghoshal will be part of it. It was an idea that struck me and now I am happy it has grown into something I truly believe in, the power of divine music and meditation. Currently, I am in the process of putting it all together,” 
 he signs off. 
 
