NEW DELHI: Tightening the noose around  , the amended Companies Act has made it mandatory for companies that have not cleared their dues to   to seek approval from lenders in case managerial remuneration exceeds 11% of its net profit.

 The amendments to the Companies Act, recently cleared by  , were notified last week. The amendments have done away with the need for companies to seek government approval. As a result, a company now requires an approval from shareholders for payment of managerial remuneration in excess of 11% of its net profits. At the same time, the government does not want promoters of companies that have defaulted on loan repayment or have dues to holders of non-convertible debentures to keep extracting money through high remuneration. In India, several promoters are among the top earners.
 
 Since the government enacted the new Companies Act in 2013, it has amended several provisions to make it easy to implement and adhere to.
 
 While a host of amendments have been made during the last sessions of Parliament, there are few which relate to the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code that is in the limelight as banks have rushed to act against errant promoters who have repeatedly failed to clear their dues.
 
 The RBI’s first list of 12 large defaulters, which owed Rs 2.6 lakh crore to the banking system, is facing insolvency action with these accounts making up nearly a quarter of the gross nonperforming assets of banks.
 
 Since then more companies have been referred to the NCLT.
 
 Given the large loan restructuring and bankruptcy actions in the economy, the restriction placed on issuing shares at a discount has been removed. The amendment now allows companies to issue shares at a discount to its creditors when its debt is converted into equity in line with any statutory resolution plan such as a resolution plan under the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code or the   restructuring plan.
 
 “The law now allows for issuing shares at below the face value too if it is part of an RBI scheme,” said a source. The Companies Act has also eased rules for valuers, who were barred from any business where they have had direct or indirect access. The law now puts curbs for three years only.
 
