KOLKATA: Kolkatans, grappling with the astronomical fuel prices, woke up to the “happy news” of a 60-paisa dip in   and diesel prices on Wednesday only to realise that the government had actually slashed the rates by a mere 1 paisa, the first deduction in 16 days.

 
 “Is this a joke? How can they make fun of its own people in this cruel manner? After raising the price consistently for the past 16 days, they have slashed it by just 1paisa? What do they expect us to do with such a miniscule deduction?” said Anindya Chatterjee, a resident of Golf Green.
 
  
 
 Jadavpur resident Souvick Basu called it a tool to cheat people. “What will happen with this one paisa? They hiked the prices at the steepest possible rate, but when it came to reducing it, they are behaving as if they are throwing alms at us,” he said. The current price of petrol is Rs 81.05 per litre and that of diesel Rs 71.85 per litre in Kolkata. Till May 13, it was Rs 77.32 a litre for petrol and Rs 68.63 a litre for diesel.
 
 The day started on a hopeful note, albeit false, with the   declaring on its official website that petrol and diesel prices across the four metros had been slashed by 60 paise. News websites and portals picked it up. But within hours, IOCL came up with a rectification that the slash was by only 1 paisa. “There was a technical glitch while posting the selling prices of petrol and diesel on our website today. The reduction was supposed to be by 1 paisa but due to a clerical error, the price prevalent on May 25 was communicated as today’s price,” a spokesperson for the company said.
 
 Petrol pump owners confirmed they were told about the 1-paisa deduction. “By midnight, petrol and diesel prices are revised automatically at all pumps and the rates come into effect from 6am the next morning. We have been charging 1 paisa less, and not 60 paise, as claimed by many. We told customers that our systems were updated only for a 1-paisa deduction,” said Rajiv Kumar, a petrol pump owner at Dalhousie.
 
 Petroleum and natural gas minister   had attributed the rising price to the increase in the cost of crude oil in the international market and the rupee-dollar exchange rate. A drop in domestic fuel prices is expected as crude oil prices internationally eased recently.
 
 
