COIMBATORE: G Rajadurai, 33, who had been working in an automobile showroom in the city, wanted to start his own business around two years ago. Driven by the information he had read in a book about mushroom cultivation, he went in search of it. “I did a one-day course on mushroom cultivation and also travelled to a lot of mushroom farms around the state,” he says.

 Today, he runs his own oyster mushroom farm at Athappa Gounden Pudur near the city. He harvests around 80kg a day on the one-acre farm and sells them for around Rs125 per kilogram. 
 
 Mushrooms have been a favourite in Coimbatore for around 20 years, say cultivators. “Even when mushrooms were unknown in Chennai, Coimbatore people were seeking mushrooms from outlets,” says A R Subramanian, who has been cultivating oyster mushrooms in the city for 20 years. Today from bakeries to roadside ‘kaalan’ outlets, mushrooms have almost become a staple.
 
 Subramanian, a former marketing professional, said in the early 1990s, he found out there was a demand for mushrooms. “I found out that it was a ‘pull product’, something that we don’t need to push to outlets,” he says. He set up an oyster mushroom farm in 1993. He says for 20 years he ran his farm on trial. “In 2004, I started a full-fledged mushroom farm in an acre,” he says. Today he harvests around 100kg of oyster mushrooms on his farm near Ramachettipalayam near the city. He has four cultivation sheds in his farm, each of which can house 1,000 to 1,500 cultivation bags. 
 
 Today, several people from the city are taking to mushroom cultivation. Mushroom farms in the city cater to hotels, outlets, vendors or dealers who retail them.
 
 But the enterprise, which seems very a promising business option, can turn out to be a failure if not properly implemented using scientific and technical methods, say experts. Several people who jumped into the business have abandoned it in a few months for the lack of know-how, experts say. 
 
 “It is popularly said that mushrooms can be cultivated on terraces and kitchens. But such methods are not viable. Without proper environment, the culture can get contaminated by airborne fungi,” says A S Krishnamoorthy, head of the department of plant pathology,   Agricultural University, who also heads the   at the university.
 
 Experts say there are too many people who mislead those interested in starting mushroom cultivation. When Arun Kumar from Tirupur wanted to set up a milky mushroom farm, he approached a person who had promoted himself as a professional.
 
 “But I found him to be misleading. I found there were several such people in this field,” says Arun Kumar. Today, self-taught in techniques, he runs a milky mushroom farm in Tirupur. He has setup the farm in 70 cents in a two-acre land. He says he sells 1kg of mushrooms for around Rs 180 in wholesale. He adds that they have a good market in Kerala.
 
 While Arun Kumar could make it, several people who are misled fail in their mushroom enterprise, experts say. “It is best to approach an established knowledge centre to learn mushroom cultivation methods,” says Krishnamoorthy.
 
 He adds that even farmers who cultivate mushrooms in a professional setup become complacent if they harvest 50kg per day. “But for a making it a sustainable business model, they have to look for increasing their harvest,” he says. He says the best way to start a venture is to start farmer producer corporations. “Though the investment might be a bit high initially, if a group of farmers start a corporation, institutions such as TNAU are ready to incubate their start-up and also arrange bank loans,” he adds.
 
 
