ALAPPUZHA: A former   leader was on Saturday sentenced to death in connection with the 2009 murder of a   ward president. Five others were given imprisonment for life. 

 Awarding the death sentence, the additional district court-III here also slapped a fine of Rs 1 lakh on  , former secretary of the CPM's Cherthala West local committee. The five others, too, were asked to pay the fine, which would be handed over to the slain man's wife.
 
 The court had earlier found Byju to be the main conspirator behind the murder of K S Divakaran of Cherthala. He was also the former chairman of Cherthala municipality's public works.
 
 V Sujith, S Sathish Kumar, P Praveen, M Benny, and N Sethu Kumar were those who got life imprisonment and a fine of Rs 1 lakh each. Sethu Kumar had worked as the driver of a south Indian actress.
 
 They were found guilty of offences under sections 302 (punishment for murder), 120 (B) (punishment for criminal conspiracy), 449 (House-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death) 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 324 voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), and 147 (rioting), among others.
 
 The special public prosecutor said the court had observed that the case was the rarest of the rare and Byju had tried to escape the law using his political clout.
 
 The team, led by Byju reached the home of Divakaran as part of the sale of coir mats on November 29, 2009, and demanded him to buy one. Divakaran refused, saying it was priced high and he was a former employee of a coir factory in Cherthala, the prosecution said. 
 
 The refusal provoked the gang, and an altercation ensued. They left a mat there, and Divakaran's son   took the issue to the grama sabha, but it ended in a clash.
 
 Later, the gang attacked Divakaran's house, and targeted him, his son and wife Reshmi. Divakaran was bludgeoned, and he died in   on December 9, the prosecution said.
 
 During the initial stage of investigation, Byju was not included in the list of accused. Later, the Congress staged an agitation and the police arraigned Byju. Following this development, the CPM expelled him from the party.
 
 
