INDORE: In past three to four years, the   in Indore have evolved from staging plays for free to selling of tickets and now they are ready to make the next big leap towards full  , which can help theatre become an economically viable activity and a fulltime profession for artistes. 

 Few years ago, there was no practice of buying a play ticket as people felt that money could be spent at other things. However, in the past two years, the scenario has completely changed and people are ready to pay for watching Hindi plays produced locally by city-based artistes. 
 
 The ticket system has also placed heavy responsibility on the theatre groups producing plays to deliver quality content to the audience and make them audience centric. 
 
 “Initially, when I started making plays I used to stage free shows in small auditoriums with a limited seating capacity, but gradually I as utilised marketing skills to reach out to wider theatre audience. I also started charging for entry as a regular theatre audience developed in Indore,” Nitesh Upadhyay, a city-based theatre artiste says. 
 
 The plays produced locally costs not more than Rs100 for theatre buffs. But, for the plays by production houses of Mumbai and Delhi staged in Indore they need to shell out Rs 1500 to Rs 2000 per person since they bring in celebrities from the film industry. 
 
 The sale of tickets only contributes to 30 to 40 percent of production cost and the rest has to be taken through donations and corporate funding. There are a few groups, who sponsor plays with the aim to promote the art, but there are very few who feel that theatre gives them the wide reach and publicity. 
 
 “The sad part is that corporates only make donation to theatre groups to gain tax rebate and there are very few such companies, which are genuinely interested in helping theatre industry grow. I am sure that in the coming years if theatre groups in Indore are successful in producing a mass turnout for plays, the corporates who want publicity will also come to them voluntarily for publicity,” Sandeep Dube another theatre artist from the city said.
 
 Artistes, playwrights, critics felicitated (BOX)
 
 Indore: A special event to felicitate people, who have contributed to the growth of theatre in the city, was held on the occasion of World Theatre Day on Tuesday. The event was organised by Sutradhar group at  .
 
 The senior theatre artistes, Anand Mohan Mathur, Tapan Mukherjee and Sriram Jogand budding artistes, play writers, loyal patrons of the art and art critics were felicitated on the occasion. 
 
 A solo play and a documentary on the life of a noted Indian theatre artiste Safdar Hashmi, who was brutally murdered, were also staged on the occasion. The solo play titled Bhulakkad, which lasted for 25 minutes, was performed by Sriram Jog. It was followed by the documentary ‘Natak Jari Hai’. 
 
 
