NEW DELHI: The 11-year-old rape survivor, who was rescued from a   in Sahibabad on Sunday, in her statement before a magistrate under CrPC Section 164 said that on April 21 she had stepped out of her house to go to a shop when another girl, a neighbour, called her over to meet a friend. This is when she met the accused juvenile who took her to Sahibabad.

 Police have invoked Section 4 of POCSO Act in the FIR following her statement. The maulvi at the madrassa, who was detained for questioning on Wednesday, may get arrested. The juvenile will also be questioned.
 
 The survivor said that the 17-year-old accused and the maulvi at the madrassa would lock her in a room after sexually assaulting her. Her cries for help went unheard as classes would be held in the adjacent room. During her captivity, the survivor said that a few other people had also touched her inappropriately. Efforts are on to identify them as well.
 
 Cops found the survivor lying wrapped in a floor mat on the first floor of the madrassa during the rescue operation. The room in which she was locked up was used by the maulvi to rest between classes. The house belongs to the local mosque committee that had appointed the maulvi last year to teach children. Police are probing whether he was involved in kidnapping other children as well.
 
 While scanning through the call records of the juvenile, it was found that he had been in touch with the survivor throughout the day on which she went missing. Crime Branch is also checking the call records to ascertain whether he had called others to sexually assault the survivor.
 
 The juvenile told police during counselling that he was a student of the madrassa and had met the girl when her family used to stay in Sahibabad, before they shifted to Ghazipur. He had decided to lure her after that.
 
 Meanwhile, family members of the survivor staged a protest at Ghazipur police station demanding the arrest of the other accused in the case. “We are conducting an inquiry into the allegations of the parents. The medical reports are awaited and further action will be taken on their basis,” said joint CP (crime) Alok Kumar.
 
 The survivor’s uncle said that a second medical examination was conducted on her after they alleged gang rape and she was sent to a children’s home for counselling on Wednesday. “We have been demanding the arrest of others who visited the madrassa. Our child is in a state of shock and has not been able to narrate her ordeal to us properly,” said a relative.
 
 Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari also met the survivor’s family.
 
 A raid by Crime Branch was on at the madrassa till late on Wednesday.
 
 
