 For  , corporate vice-president and chief information officer (CIO) of  , the future of the auto industry lies in fine-tuning autonomous and electric vehicles and the real challenge is how his company can come up with something which many people can’t replicate.

 
 “There are many challenges. How fast can we move the car from order to production to the customer’s hands and how fast can we make the connected system more user-friendly”, he told TOI during the sidelines of deliberations with Kerala government officials for assessing the potential of Technopark to host Nissan’s ambitious digital hub project.
 
 The priorities of the CIO of one of the global automotive giants, interestingly, doesn’t mention anything about directly improving the physical device. “Of course, car is a physical asset at the end of the day. But, we are trying to digitise the physical world of manufacturing, distribution and supply chain. We work on how to make a car with minimal human interaction and how to help customers use and maintain cars with minimal human intervention”, said Thomas, who is popularly known as Tony Thomas in industry circles.
 
 Describing automotive as the most exciting and happening industry in the world, Thomas said, “Cars will soon become an extension of you. It will direct you to nearest hospital and restaurant and will tell you where your wife is waiting to be picked up. In the near future, e-commerce for car shopping will become common. You will be delivered your pick at your doorstep”. “Your car is now more like an IT data centre on four wheels. It uses more software technology than physical technology. The speed of car manufacturing is faster than you can imagine. In our plant in the US, a car comes out in every 30 seconds,” he said.
 
 Nissan has tested stage-4 types of autonomous vehicles and owns cars that can depart its Silicon Valley office of their own, identify an employee waiting in the nearest railway station and picks him up. “The cars use facial recognition technology. If there is any hurdle like another car parked on the way hindering its journey towards the passenger, it will connect to our call centre which analyses the situation and gives an appropriate direction like take another round and come back in two minutes or so”, said Thomas.
 
 Anthony Thomas, who had his engineering education from College of Engineering, Trivandrum, belongs to Pala in Kottayam. He was the CIO of GE global before joining   15 months ago. Prior to that, he was the CIO of Vodafone India.
 
 On the prospects of IT growth in Kerala, Thomas said it is high time for the state to redefine its growth strategy. “My point of view is that you have to start looking beyond IT outsourcing. You must fight the battle of future, not the 20-year old one. Outsourcing will create a set of jobs. Once the attraction is gone, jobs will go and the companies too. We need to create an eco-system for innovation. Like how   and a few startups created Silicon Valley, we must create an environment that helps to tap the best out of connected brain power,” he said.
 
