Porvorim: The town and country planning (TCP) department’s sub-committee meeting to address the concerns of the Curca-Bambolim-Talaulim panchayat regarding inclusion in the Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA) was inconclusive. TCP minister and chairman of the sub-committee Vijai Sardesai said that since the villagers and TCP authorities could not arrive at an agreement, the villages continued to be part of the GPPDA. While Sardesai termed the entire meeting an “exercise in futility”, St Andre MLA Francisco Silveira, who was present for the meeting, appealed for another meeting to try and arrive at a consensus. “We have by and large agreed to most of what they have asked, but they seem to be confused. The meeting was inconclusive,” Sardesai said while briefing reporters after the meeting. “Whatever is notified, remains notified. If we can’t reach a conclusion, then we cannot change the notification. It remains,” he said. At the moment, Curca, Bambolim and Talaulim villages are part of the GPPDA. Broadly, the TCP sub-committee is of the opinion that these villages, along with the villages of Azossim, Mandur, Gancim and Batim should not have been part of the GPPDA. Sardesai said he was not willing to compromise on the inclusion of Bambolim, Taleigao and Kadamba plateau in the GPPDA. These areas are ideal for vertical development and creation of adequate infrastructure for housing, he said. “The basic principle is that wherever there is plateau, it is meant to be a receiving zone for Transfer of Development Rights (TDR). This is the basic principle,” Sardesai said. “The slope of the Bambolim plateau, which ends into the sea, is quite sensitive and should not be included in the PDA, and I agree. But if you say nothing should come then that is bad planning.” Currently, the Bambolim plateau is dominated by Goa Medical College complex, headquarters of 2 Signal Training Centre and Cujira integrated school complex. “When we spoke about TDR, what did we say? That eco-sensitive zones would be incentivised for conservation in view of development on receiving zones like wherever there is plateau and sufficient infrastructure. This is the principle,” Sardesai said. The TCP minister said that while he can agree to everything that the villagers say, he cannot agree to the idea that the principle of planning must be thrown in the dustbin. The villagers and Silveira continued to appeal to TCP to consider the resolution passed by the Curca-Bambolim-Talaulim panchayat asking for the entire panchayat, including the plateau, to be removed from the notified GPPDA area. “I appeal to the minister to call for another meeting because the people are slightly confused. Talaulim part we want deleted, but that is where we are unable to arrive at a clear cut agreement,” Silveira said.