Chennai: Passengers on the Chennai - Bengaluru - Mysuru Shatabdi Express will be able to access more than 100 movies in various languages during travel from Saturday.

 The mechanical department at the Basin Bridge coach care centre in Chennai has started modifying the regular air-conditioned chair car coaches. 
 
 One such coach, which will be attached to the Chennai - Bengaluru - Mysuru Shatabdi (12007 ), was showcased on Friday. 
 
 Officials said Rs 10 lakh has been allocated for modifying each coach under Project Swarn. Around 15 to 17 coaches of the Bengaluru Shatabdi and Coimbatore Shatabdi will be modified one-by-one by May this year.
 
 The infotainment system is being provided by Magic box, a Delhi-based company, said a senior official. There are no changes in the ticket prices for though.
 
 “To watch the content, a passenger has to connect his phone or laptop to a local Wi-Fi which will be password-protected. The content will be available on magicbox.com. There will be chat and comedy shows apart from films,” the official said. However, the Wi-Fi will not connect the passenger to the internet. “There is more demand for infotainment than internet,” said the official.
 
 Besides infotainment, the coaches are being equipped with LED lights for reading, coach indication board and CCTV cameras at the entrance. The interiors would sport a fresh look due to a vinyl wrapping at the entrance and above the luggage rack. There will be provisions for fragrance dispensers inside the toilets and compartments. Braille signage to denote coach numbers will also be installed for the benefit of visually-impaired passengers.
 
 “It takes five days to modify a coach at the depot,” said a senior official of the mechanical department. “We are waiting for feedback from the passengers and would be willing to make more changes to suit their taste,” the official said. Already, the train has been equipped with an Anubhuti coach where a separate screen has been attached at the back of each seat for infotainment.
 
 
