Chennai: Did the present deputy chief minister, O Panneerselvam, and 10 other MLAs supporting him defy AIADMK’s official   when they voted against vote of confidence moved by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on February 18, 2017?

 Though   and MLAs loyal to him keep saying there never was any whip and hence they could not have defied the whip warranting  , DMK furnished a proof in Madras   on Tuesday, showing that OPS himself had told ECI they voted against the governemnt despite the whip.
 
 DMK has moved the court seeking the disqualification of all the 11 MLAs for having defied the whip.
 
 When the case came up for hearing before Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Adbul Quddhose, DMK’s senior counsel Amarendra Sharan produced copy of an affidavit filed by Paneerselvam with the ECI, and said, “The ruling party, along with the deputy chief minister, committed contempt of court by providing contrary submission before this court by saying that the party whip never passed any orders directing the AIADMK MLAs to vote in favour of the February 18 confidence motion.” Since the inception of this case, counsel for chief minister has been claiming that Paneerselvam and 10 other MLAs never defied the order of the whip, as the party whip had never issued any direction in connection with the February 18 motion.
 
 But the affidavits filed by Paneerselvam and other MLAs with the ECI, during the dispute between two factions of the party, it was submitted that a whip had been issued to vote in favour of the chief minister’s motion of confidence and that the 11 MLAs publicly opposed the candidature of Palaniswamy as chief minister, Sharan added.
 
 This apart, disputing the justification made by the ruling party that disqualification was not contemplated against the 11 MLAs in view of a pending dispute before the ECI, Sharan said: “Such pending dispute before the ECI in connection with the AIADMK will not bar the speaker from initiating disqualification action against the MLAs. The speaker is deliberately not recording his appearance in this case, though he has been represented in other connected cases. When we allege mala fide against the speaker, he alone can deny the allegation, and not by any third party on his behalf.”
 
 He added all the actions and decisions of the speaker could be judicially reviewed. To this, however, the first bench said it might review the actions of the speaker, but it could not don the role of a speaker.
 
 The court then adjourned the plea to February 14 for further hearing.
 
 
