PUNE: A total of 13,206 PMPML bus breakdowns were reported in 12 months from April 2017 to this March, showcasing the poor upkeep of the public transport vehicles and the hassles of commuters.

 On an average, over 1,100 buses stopped midway through the journey every month in the last financial year. The response to an   application filed by  , the secretary of the  , revealed the startling figures.
 
  
  
 
 Amit Ghole, a resident of   told TOI, “Once I was travelling on a bus that developed a snag. I can say from my experience that the PMPML’s system of repairing vehicles is terrible. The wait lasts for two hours or more. By then, many passengers get frustrated and opt for other modes of transport. Why can’t the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) conduct maintenance of buses religiously? One can understand tyre punctures but buses just stopping or catching fire show how sensitive the PMPML is towards lakhs of commuters.”
 
 Former chairman and managing director of PMPML Tukaram Mundhe claimed during his tenure from April last year to early February this year that several steps were taken to control breakdowns. But the figures portrayed a different picture.
 
 Shitole told TOI, “It is not about Mundhe but the overall scenario in the PMPML. If one calculates, just over 1,100 buses broke down every month on an average. Around 36 buses (on an average) came to a grinding halt because of technical issues every day during this period. The figures drill holes in the claims made by the PMPML last year and even now regarding controlling the breakdowns.”
 
 The figures showed a marginal drop in breakdowns from August to November last year, when Mundhe was in office and his stress was on controlling breakdowns. “He took steps, which were implemented seriously. Around the same time, PMPML’s chief engineer Sunil Burse was terminated because he could not execute Mundhe’s plan of putting 900 off-road buses back on the streets. Things seem to have gone back to square one again,” Shitole said.
 
 Of the 2,163 buses available with the PMPML at present, a total of 260 will be scrapped this year. Another 190 buses would be scrapped in the next two years, said a source.
 
