KOCHI: Legal metrology department ( ) has registered 1,590 cases in   in the last financial year for overpricing products, selling them without proper labels and irregularities in weight. The department also collected Rs 41 lakh as fine from  .

 In the 2017-18 financial year, the department verified 41,978 weighing instruments in retail shops. The number of instruments verified in 2016-17 financial year in Ernakulam was 44,282.
 
 Cases were registered after conducting inspections in shops and warehouses. Thermometers, weighing scales and sphygmomanometers, which were not calibrated with the department, were seized in the inspections.
 
 “Inspections are conducted in markets and shops in busy junctions. We also inspect petrol pumps to check the quantity and price of products,” said R Ram Mohan, deputy controller of LMD.
 
 Fine amounting to Rs 7.5 lakh has been collected after noticing shortage of gas in  . Officials had noticed shortage of up to 700g in the gas cylinders.
 
 Autorickshaw and taxi fare meters were also verified by the department. Following complaints, actions were taken against shop owners who imposed excess rates on imported toys and food items in multiplexes.
 
 Action was also taken for absence of details like customer care number on the package of food products, manufacturing date, expiry date, name of the company and contact address.
 
 A fine of Rs 25,000 is imposed on manufacturer and Rs 5,000 on dealer for absence of declaration on the package.
 
 If there are shortage in the quantity of products, a fine of Rs 50,000 will be imposed on manufacturer and Rs10,000 on dealer.
 
 Officials had noticed that shop keepers impose excess rates on mineral water and other products in the pretext of collecting GST. They also received complaints regarding excess rates and shortage in quantity in pesticides and fodder sold through shops.
 
 The department also received complaints regarding excess rates being charged on spare parts of high-end vehicles.
 
