CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the experts from the   (KU),   to decide the controversy related to errors in the answer keys for the selection of 626 posts of post graduate teachers (PGTs) in Sanskrit in Haryana. Some of the candidates have been alleging errors in answer keys of five questions of the written examination.

 “Let these five questions with answer keys be sent to the head of the Sanskrit department in Kurukshetra University, Kurukshetra, who along with two other senior teachers in the department, will opine as to which of the answers in four options or none of them given in each of the question is correct,” ordered a division bench comprising Justice Rajesh Bindal and  .
 
 The bench has also asked the university experts to send the report regarding accuracy of the answer keys, along with supporting material, to the chairman of the Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC).
 
 It further said the report submitted by the head of the Sanskrit department in Kurukshetra University would be accepted by the Commission and further action shall be taken for revising the result, if needed. Directions have also been issued for uploading the answer keys with correct answers suggested by the university panel on the commission’s website.
 
 In June 2015, the HSSC had invited applications for direct recruitment to 6,874 posts of PGTs in Haryana Education Services-II (Group B), including 626 posts of PGTs in Sanskrit. A written examination was held for these posts in the form of multi-choice question papers of 160 marks having two marks for each question. The result of the examination was declared and answer keys were uploaded accordingly.
 
 Not satisfied with the answer keys, the petitioners, including Sanjay Sharma and others from Hisar district, had approached the HC alleging that the answer keys to question numbers 50, 53, 69, 71 and 74 of the written examination was incorrect.
 
 In their petition, the petitioners had sought directions to quash the answer keys and to constitute the committee of subject experts to evaluate the answer keys of the aforesaid five questions before finalizing the result.
 
 Haryana advocate general B R Mahajan, however, submitted that the question paper was prepared by the expert in the subject and objections raised to the answer keys were also examined by him. Though the rules do not provide for its examination by any other expert committee, but still to rule out any possibility of error, five questions, as pointed out by learned counsel for the appellants, can be re-examined by an independent expert,   had argued.
 
 
