PHAGWARA: A protest by traders in Phagwara, triggered by an altercation between a shopkeeper and protesting Dalit activists who were forcing him to shut his shop, ended on Wednesday afternoon - bringing an end to fresh tension which had gripped this caste-sensitive town. 

 Before the protest was lifted, there was a near-complete bandh in the town, as most markets and industries were shut. The protest, supported by BJP, SAD and a section of Congress leaders, started on Tuesday evening, around the time when CM Captain   was holding a meeting with senior Dalit leaders of the Congress and top police officials. The town has been on the boil since April 13, when a clash took place between right-wing Hindu groups and Dalit activists.
 
 The sit-in ended after a delegation of General Samaj Manch (a body of general-caste categories), and local leaders of BJP, SAD and Congress, met Jalandhar zone inspector general of police (IGP) Naunihal Singh. They handed the IGP a memorandum to demand the arrest of   (LIP) leader Jarnail Nangal and Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) president Harbhajan Suman. They said other accused from among Dalits named in FIRs should also be arrested and cops should ensure a fair probe.
 
 Apart from seeking action against those who stripped and thrashed Shiv Sena (Punjab) vice-president Rajesh Palta on April 14 morning, they also handed over a list of 10 leaders/members of RSS, BJP and right wing Hindu groups whose names figure in the FIR, demanding that they be exonerated as they were innocent.
 
 The delegation also sought dismissal of Phagwara additional deputy commissioner (ADC)   and sub-divisional magistrate (SDM)  , accusing them of bias.
 
 Protesters were also holding pictures of four right-wing Hindu leaders -Deepak Bharadwaj (Punjab president of  ), Inderjit Karwal (state vice-president of Shiv Sena Bal Thackeray), Shive Batta ('national president' of Hindu Shiv Sena) and Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha mandal president   - to demand their release. These demands were also made in speeches.
 
 In the morning, senior leaders of BJP, SAD and Congress leaders also joined the protest amid a complete bandh in the town, call for which was given by General Samaj Manch. Industries also remained closed as Laghu Udyog Bharti also supported the bandh. Most speakers at protest trained their guns at Nangal and Ambedkar Sena leader Suman, stating that they should be arrested. Markfed former chairperson Jarnail Singh Wahid and SAD district unit president Sarwan Singh Kular also participated in the dharna. They said that they were not against Dalits, but against troublemakers who "misused" name of Dalits for vested interests.
 
 IGP Naunihal told TOI that he assured the delegation that a fair investigation would be carried out and police would take care that no innocent suffered. "At the same time, no guilty will be spared and police will carry out the probe on the basis of the evidence," he said, adding that they would try to reach a conclusion in 3-4 days on the points made by the delegation.
 
 
