CHENNAI: Six flights were diverted and 10 arrivals and 11 departures delayed at the city airport on Thursday after a   flight, with close to 200 passengers, made an emergency landing following a hydraulic leak, suffered a tyre burst and got stuck on the main runway since landing at 2.25pm. The runways were closed till 6.45pm.

 An   freighter plane, which was scheduled to land at 1.40pm and was put on hold because of the incident, also made an emergency landing on the second runway, at 2.52pm.
 
 SpiceJet's   flight (SG106) with 199 people onboard had taken off around 1.40pm and was at an altitude of 20,000 feet when the Captain detected a hydraulic leak and found pressure dipping, forcing him to declare an emergency and turn back. Air traffic control asked the pilot to check for snags after the pilot of a   aircraft that took off after SpiceJet's B737-8 spotted oil spill and tyre parts on the main runway.
 
 A senior   official said the cockpit crew had by then detected the hydraulic problem. 
 
 
 
 
 The official said, “The plane made a safelanding from the Guindyend of the main runway at 2.25pm. Itwas haltedthere after a tyre on the rightlanding gear burst during touchdown.”
 
 The main runway had to be closed because the markings caused by the landing gear had to be inspected and repaired and also because the stricken flight was on a taxiway near the main runway. “After the incident, we used the second runway for landings and takeoffs, leading to delays because taxiing time is more for departing flights. There is also congestion because it takes longer for planes to move from the second runway into taxiway after landing,” the AAI official said.
 
 A SpiceJet flight from Tuticorin turned to Tirupati, a Jet Airways plane from Delhi and IndiGo flight from Bhubaneswar sent to Bengaluru, and an IndiGo flight from Kochi divertedtoHyderabad were among the diversions.SpiceJetin a statement said: “SpiceJet Chennai-Delhi flight suffered a suspected tyre burst at thetime of takeoff. The crew decided to turn back and landed safely in Chennai. Passengers were deplaned safely and were taken to the terminal building.”
 
 An airport official said theB737suffered a hydraulic fault. “It is suspected the wheels stopped spinning, triggering a burst. One wheel of the same landing gear under the right wing seems to have developedtroublewhen the plane took off causing shreds of tyre to scatter on the runway. The tyres which did notspin burstbecauseof the friction with the runway when ittoucheddown. There was minor damage tothetarmac as the metal wheel dug in,” he said, adding that a detailed probewouldbeheld.
 
 
 
