BEIRUT/WASHINGTON/MOSCOW: Dozens of Syrians choked to death after a suspected   struck the rebel-held suburb of Douma, east of  , and aid groups on Sunday blamed President Bashar al-Assad's government for the assault. The attack after dusk on Saturday sent a stream of patients with burning eyes and breathing problems to clinics, medical and rescue groups said. 

  A joint statement by the medical relief organisation Syrian American Medical Society (SAMS) and the civil defence service, which operates in rebel-held areas, said 49 people had died in the attack. Others put the toll even higher. 
 
  US President Donald Trump said there would be a "big price to pay" for a chemical attack. The Syrian state denied government forces had launched any chemical attack and Russia, President Bashar al-Assad's most powerful ally, called the reports bogus.
 
 "Many dead, including women and children, in mindless CHEMICAL attack in  . Area of atrocity is in lockdown and encircled by Syrian Army, making it completely inaccessible to outside world. President Putin, Russia and Iran are responsible for backing Animal  . Big price to pay," Trump wrote on Twitter.
 
  He also took a jab at former President Obama, who declined to respond militarily to evidence that the Syrian government had gassed its own people. "If President Obama had crossed his stated Red Line In The Sand, the Syrian disaster would have ended long ago! Animal Assad would have been history!" Trump tweeted. 
 
 The Russian foreign ministry warned against any military action on the basis of "invented and fabricated excuses," saying this could lead to severe consequences.
 
 The US launched a cruise missile strike on a Syrian air base last year in response to a sarin gas attack in northwestern Syria blamed on Assad.
 
 One of Trump's top homeland security advisers said on Sunday the US would not rule out launching another missile attack. "I wouldn't take anything off the table," White House homeland security and counterterrorism adviser Thomas Bossert said in an interview on ABC's "This Week."
 
 Activists circulated videos of lifeless men, women and children sprawled out on floors and in stairwells, many with white foam coming from their mouths and nostrils. "Douma city, April 7 ... there is a strong smell here," a voice can be heard saying.
 
  State news media in Syria denied that government forces had used chemical weapons and accused the Islamist rebel group that controls Douma, the Army of Islam, of fabricating the videos to solicit international support as defeat loomed. It was not possible to independently verify the reports because Douma is surrounded by Syrian government forces, which prevent access by journalists, aid workers and investigators. 
 
  Douma is in the eastern   region near Damascus. Assad has won back control of nearly all of eastern Ghouta in a Russian-backed military campaign that began in February, leaving just Douma in rebel hands. Taking Douma would seal Assad's biggest victory since 2016, and underline his unassailable position in the war that has killed hundreds of thousands of people since it mushroomed from protests against his rule in 2011. 
 
  In a joint statement, the Syrian Civil Defense and the Syrian American Medical Society, which supports clinics in opposition areas of Syria, said that more than 500 people had gone to medical centers after the assault "with symptoms indicative of exposure to a chemical agent." Those symptoms included including trouble breathing, foaming at the mouth, burning eyes and the "emission of a chlorine-like odor." 
 
 One person was dead on arrival at a clinic, six others died after they got there, and rescue workers reported finding more than 42 dead in their homes, the statement said. The bodies could not be evacuated because of strong odors and a lack of protective equipment. "The reported symptoms indicate that the victims suffocated from the exposure to toxic chemicals," the statement said.
 
  The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which did not confirm the use of chemical agents, said that 56 people, including women and children, had been killed in the past 24 hours, including 21 who suffocated in the basements of buildings that had collapsed on them. About 500 others were wounded in the bombardment, and 70 had breathing troubles, the group said. agencies 
 
 
