Nagpur: After a lot of hue and cry, MSEDCL finally bit the bullet and agreed to correct the inflated power bills of farmers. It has organized 11 KV feeder level bill correction camps from January 1. However, the farmers of Vidarbha are not showing any interest in them. Against two to three lakh farm pump connections in the region, only 8,300 bills have been submitted for correction so far.

 MSEDCL officials charge that farmers don’t want to get their bills corrected as they have no intention of paying them. “We are giving them the final chance. If they don’t get their bills corrected, then they will have to pay the original amount. We will disconnect farmers who don’t pay up,” an official said.
 
 “We have corrected over 50% of the bills. In Vidarbha, 8,306 bills were submitted till January 24. We corrected 4,671 bills. The original bill amount of Rs12.93 crore was reduced to Rs3.43 crore. This shows that we are sincerely correcting the bills. Still, farmers are not coming forward, which is unfortunate,” he added.
 
 Pratap Hogade of   ( ), who has been demanding bill correction since years, admitted that the response to the camps was poor. 
 
 “The basic reason is there is lack of awareness among people. They think that only those consumers who have applied under   will be entertained. Others don’t feel that their bills will be actually corrected,” Hogade said.
 
 The consumer activist blamed the organizations that are asking farmers not to pay their bills for the poor response. “These leaders are telling farmers that High Court has prohibited the government from collecting bills from them. However, this is only one of the prayers in the petition. The HC has not entertained it,” the MVGS leader said.
 
 MVGS will hold camps in all district next month to create awareness among farmers. “We will appeal to farmers to take advantage of this golden opportunity. Ideally, MSEDCL should take help of a third party and correct bills of individual farmers on its own. The state government had checked attendance of each school with third party help. So, such large scale exercises are possible,” Hogade further said.
 
 A glance at the data provided by MSEDCL shows that farmers of   responded the best to the bill correction camps. Some 2,357 bills were submitted for correction of which 1,946 were corrected. The worst response was in Washim district where only 67 applications were received.
 
 
