International singer   is in the city and while he loves all things Indian, four kids from Mumbai have particularly impressed him. The teens —   (13),   (13),   (14) and   (15) — who recently formed their band, opened for HRVY’s concert last night. They put together an interesting medley of the 19-year-old’s songs, including a fusion cover of his popular number, 'Personal'. For the four kids, who love HRVY’s music, this was an opportunity of a lifetime. They study at different schools, but their love for music brought them together last year in August and that's when they formed their band, ‘The A Team’. 

 
 
 “We are all excited to open the show for HRVY, who is a social media phenomenon,” says Arav Sidhwani (15), son of filmmaker  , and a student of American School of Bombay, who plays the guitar. Aaryan Binjrajka (13), a student of Dhirubhai Ambani International School, who plays the piano, echoes his sentiment, “My friends are all so thrilled; they love his songs.” Along with HRVY’s music, it’s also his modesty that seems to have struck a chord with them. Adds Aaryan, “It’s nice to see somebody as accomplished as him being so warm and friendly. We were chatting about the video games that we play.” 
 HRVY was most curious about Aryaman Meswani’s tabla skills. Aryaman (14), son of Hital and Bijal Meswani and a student of Dhirubhai Ambani International School, says, “HRVY was quite intrigued about how I play the tabla. We had a fun interaction with him.” Though Aryaman’s choice of music is different from the youngsters of today, he likes HRVY’s work. He says, “There is something different about his songs and performing at his concert was a great opportunity for us.” And this happened quite by chance. In January this year, during a performance at the NCPA, they were spotted by   (who handles the marketing in India for the international record label that has brought HRVY to Mumbai), and that’s how they bagged the opportunity to open the concert last night. Meanwhile, the young musicians hope to achieve greater heights as a team. Recounting the time when they first thought about forming their band, Arav says, “After we jammed together the first time, we realised that we gelled really well and that’s when we decided to form our band. We have different tastes in music and I think each one brings something new to the table. We have various components that make our music interesting.” 
 But this is just the beginning, emphasises the fourth member of the band, Aléa Motwane (13), a student of Cathedral and John Connon School. She plays the piano and is a singer. “HRVY is a huge inspiration for us. He is only 19 and the first song that he did was at 15… that is so cool! Right now, we plan to perform at events, but in the future, we hope to make our own music,” says Aléa.
 
 
 
 Interestingly, HRVY (Harvey Leigh Cantwell) started his career by uploading videos of his performances on Facebook. In 2013, he began performing live after which his first single, 'Thank You', was released, which became a huge hit.
 The singer, who has been travelling across the globe, had been looking forward to his India trip. “During my stay here, I want to experience the culture, Indian food and meet Bollywood,” he says. And how does India and its GenNext’s interest in music appeal to him? “The Indian music industry is interesting and exciting; I am looking forward to collaborating with some talented musicians here and learning about the beauty of such a different side of music,” he says.
 
 
 
