MUMBAI: In a significant order, the Bombay high court on Wednesday directed that the Mumbai   Rail Corporation (MMRC) board give a hearing to five high priests, trustees of two Atash Behrams and several Parsi litigants who challenged the Mumbai Metro 3 project route as it runs under the two consecrated fires at the Princess Street junction in south Mumbai. 

 After the HC expressed its desire to stay drilling work and post the matter after the vacation to June, MMRC counsel Girish Godbole requested that his statement be recorded that the drilling work would not touch the Atash Behrams till next date on June 14. 
 
 Counsel Shyam Mehta along with advocate Zerick Dastur representing petitioners including structural engineer Jamshed Sukhadwalla and priest Rooyintan Peer wanted a stay on the ‘up’ tunnel from running under the Atash Behrams, which have three fires each that cannot have their link to the earth centre broken. 
 
 The court directed  , MMRDA and MMRC to file their replies to the petition. Justice S J Kathawalla and Justice Ajay Gadkari comprising the bench also expressed unhappiness at why all the high priests were not consulted by MMRC before the project and why only two had gone for a meeting with the chief minister. 
 
 The bench asked where the high priests and trustees of the two Atash Behrams were and why were they not in court. When informed that one of the Atash Behrams has not accepted service of the petition while one had, Justice Kathawalla and also said that “if the trustees of Atash Behram are not interested in coming to court for such an important matter, they should resign.”
 
 “Has the trustee explained or priest addressed the community,” the HC asked after MMRC counsel said two priests had been explained everything last year and had agreed to the Metro 3 plan. The HC questioned as to why the CM was convening the meeting. 
 
 At the hearing before the vacation bench, Shyam Mehta said, “MMRC said they won’t go under sanctum sanctorum. We said they can’t go under the Atash Behram at all. There are three fires there.” 
 
 Mehta said that in April 2018, high priests wrote to the Prime Minister too against Mumbai Metro 3 project. These are not the priests who went to the CM, he clarified when asked by the court. 
 
 There are five high priests of them one is silent. Four have written that the tunnel can’t go under the temple, which is a heritage site dating to 1830, said Mehta. 
 
 The MMRC board comprising Ashwini Bhide, UPS Madan, Ajoy Mehta, AA Bhat and Rahul Asthana will convene the meeting before the next hearing. 
 
 The petition wants court to prevent any drilling work and has also sought a realignment of the underground route. The petitioners fear that “proposed work in its current form will lead to desecration of the holy consecrated fires”, as well as threaten structural safety of heritage buildings and likely cause holy wells in the Atash Behrams to run dry.
 
 The Metro 3 route, which will link Colaba-Bandra-Seepz, will run under Jagannath Shankar Sheth Road that includes several heritage structures, including two of the most holy Zoroastrian fire temples.
 
 
