MUMBAI:Three accused in the   slum extortion case have been temporarily dismissed from service. 

 The incident occurred on February 2 when slum-dwellers allegedly paid Rs 5,000 as initial bribe money. They then took the enumerators to the Juhu police who lodged an FIR and arrested the supervisor of the slum survey team,  , who had accepted the money.
 
  Currently, a biometric survey is underway at Nehru Nagar slums, which is on airport land, for ex-situ rehabilitation. The survey is being conducted by the deputy collector of the   (SRA) along with a team from a private agency (MahaOnline) that has been appointed to collect documents, map the tenements and take pictures of the tenement along with the families eligible. The survey is now being conducted under police protection and is expected to be completed in two months. So far, 4,500 tenements have been surveyed. 
 
 According to a report submitted to the SRA, the complainant   owns three tenements in the Nehru Nagar slum of which two were marked by the deputy collector's surveyor (KW-009A01130 and KW-009A00985) as eligible for free housing. The third unmarked tenement is located between the two marked tenements, states the report.
 
 Main accused Padmashali, in his statement to his employers MahaOnline, said Jangam had been pressuring him to put a number on the third tenement and even offered a bribe of Rs 35,000. Padmashali said he tried explaining to Jangam that they merely collected documents on behalf of SRA and it was for the deputy collector's surveyor to first paint the number in black indicating the hutment was eligible for free housing.
 
 Padmashali claimed he refused to accept the money, but he was beaten up by Jangam and his associates. They then thrust the money in his shirt pocket and dragged him to the police station alleging he had demanded and accepted money.
 
 An FIR was registered against four employees of MahaOnline. Padmashali was later released on bail.
 
 An official from the Biometric Cell said Padmashali was being coerced for several days before the incident. He, however, had not reported it to his immediate superior or any other team member.
 
 
