 The upcoming biopic Gul Makai, which is based on Malala Yousafzai, the world’s youngest Nobel laureate, chronicles the life of the young Pakistani activist, who was shot in the head and neck by the Taliban for going to school. The film revolves around her early journey and the circumstances that made her an inspiration to the world.     About why the biopic has been titled Gul Makai, director Amjad Khan says, “When Malala was 11 years old, she wrote a blog about life under the Taliban, under the pseudonym Gul Makai.” Khan has promised to donate the movie’s first-day worldwide collection to the Malala Fund, which promotes education of the girl child.      The action sequences in the film have been shot in Bhuj with a 16-camera set-up and a team of 1,200 people. Khan shares, “I have used 16 cameras throughout the film so that I could get the desired shots without interrupting the performance of the actors. Also, I opted for FTII and NSD passouts for minor roles. We also have well-known actors, including the late Om Puri, Atul Kulkarni, Divya Dutta, Arif Zakaria, Mukesh Rishi, Abhimanyu Singh, Pankaj Tripathi and Sharib Hashmi.”      Apart from their talent, director Amjad Khan chose actors based on their resemblance to the real-life characters. Child artiste Reem Shaikh is portraying Malala on screen.    In the film, they have recreated Malala’s home and school as it used to be, including the furniture, computer, crockery, and even her school dress and school bag. Khan explains, “It took two years to complete the research, and another couple of months to write the screenplay and dialogues. The research and writing has been done by Bhaswati Chakrabarty. She is a perfectionist; I don’t think any other person could have done the job so well.” The director has also composed the music of the film. He says, “The title song is written by Bhaswati, while the rest of the tracks have been penned by me.” He even convinced the late Om Puri to sing for the film. Actor-singer Piyush Mishra has also rendered a track, in which Khan has accompanied him.    Gul Makai, produced by Sanjay Singla and Preeti Vijay Jaju, is all set to release in the latter half of the year.