RAIPUR: In a nerve-wrenching incident, 18-year-old   was rescued from house of a policeman in bilaspur city who was kept in confinement inside a room, with a swollen eye, broken small finger and had several injury marks on her body. an fir has been lodged against the couple and the duo was at large.

 posted as assistant sub-inspector at civil lines police station, the alleged accused shailendra singh and his wife shashi during their tenure in bijapur district had three years ago in 2015, convinced the poor family of then 16-year-old girl providing her household job of governess of their children, shelter, food and education alongwith monthly salary and brought her to bilaspur on new posting. it was in 2016 they shifted to bilaspur and hell broke loose for the girl.
 
 the girl complaint that she belonged to gangaloor region in bijapur district in bastar and hadn’t been paid salary for last six months, when she asked for salary and desire to return home, she was beaten up brutally by the couple and was locked in a room.
 
 it was a new housemaid who felt pity on her condition and her injuries that she informed the neighbours who guided her to sakhi centre and women and child department.
 
 a police team with members of sakhi centre and wcd raided the house number 34 at abhilasha parisar at sirgitti region on thursday. the couple the singh couple wasn’t at home and police checked the house in front of children. finding a room locked on first floor, police asked for keys from children who said it wasn’t with them.
 
 later, the children called up their parents and gave the keys to police.
 
 team was shocked to find the girl in miserable condition. she had several injuries on her body and one of her eyes couldn’t open due to the swelling.
 
 in her complaint, she said that the couple used to often beat her, mainly shashi singh who works as a proffesor, used to thrash her with stick in a closed room. while the stick would break, her small finger disfigured due to regular beating, the couple never showed mercy.
 
 she told police that everything was initially fine, but after few weeks, the couple started harassing her mentally and physically. scolding her for petty mistakes, they would start beating her. while they had recruited her for looking after children, she was forced in all sorts of domestic work at home.
 
 all this while she wasn’t allowed to meet or goto her parents place and when parents called up on phone, the couple would hardly allow her talk to them. she insisted she wanted to go home and she would invite more beatings.
 
 the recently recruited new housemaid had been seeing girl’s condition and learning about her condition, she informed the neighbours. it was when the couple went out of station, leaving the girl locked in room, the maid dared to inform police and others and the girl was rescued.
 
 bilaspur sp arif sheikh said that the asi was at large and were booked under sections of 342, 294, 323, 506 (b), 3 (10) of sc/st act. he added that asi and his wife would soon be arrested and he has been suspended.
 
 as far as girl's pending salary is concerned, sp said that would be settled from asi's salary account.
 
