NAGPUR: In a setback to the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI), the Nagpur bench of   rejected its plea for transfer of one of its senior scientists.

 While maintaining the Central Administrative Tribunal’s (CAT) decision of August 1 that quashed principal scientist   Singh’s transfer orders, the HC observed that his transfer was not illegal, but ‘arbitrary’. It added that he was working as a principal scientist with specialization in soil conservation, but was transferred to the waste water technology department in the Chennai zonal centre.
 
 Quoting CAT’s decision, the HC noted that several principal scientists that were experts in wastewater technology were retained in the city and a senior scientist was required there for handling the same department. 
 
 “In view of the undisputed position that there was no policy/guidelines framed by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) for transfer of its employees, the tribunal held that it was necessary to uphold Kumar’s submission that his was arbitrarily effected without finding out the availability of other scientists having a longer stay at Neeri’s Nagpur and other centres,” a division bench comprising justices Vasanti Naik and Arun Upadhye said.
 
 Kumar was working with ‘Environmental Biotechnology and Genomics Division’ since 17 years and his main research work pertains to environmental projects. He has the specialization in soil conservation and is working on several projects in city, some of which are still incomplete. His employer suddenly transferred him on December 19, 2016 to Chennai.
 
 Kumar challenged his transfer before the tribunal on the ground that it’s effected with a view to victimize him. The tribunal considered his factual position that he had no objection for his transfer provided that he’s not required to perform the work with which he is not conversant.
 
 On an appreciation of the material on record, the tribunal rightly found that though the transfer could not be said to be mala fide, the same was arbitrary as he had specialization in soil conservation, but now required to do work of which he had no knowledge. The tribunal found that the nature of work of soil conservation expert was different from that to be performed in the waste water technology.
 
 When case came up for hearing in HC, the judges asked Neeri on whether it would grant the job pertaining to soil conservation to the respondent at Chennai. It however declined clarifying that when some work pertaining to his specialization is required to be done, he would be asked to do so.
 
 “Neeri’s reply would clearly show that though the respondent is ready to work with it even at the Chennai Centre, the petitioners are not ready to grant similar work to him. No doubt transfer is an incident of service and the courts would be loath to interfere with an order unless it’s malafidely effected or is violative of the statutory provisions. Since the order of the tribunal is just and proper, we dismiss the writ petition,” the judges ruled.
 
 
