JAIPUR: The   may have lifted the ban on film ‘Padmavaat’ in Rajasthan and other states, but   here are in a fix.

 Majority of the exhibitors are reluctant to screen the film until the state government takes a final call on the issue.
 
 Already threatened by previous incidents of theatres being vandalized in Kota and other parts of the state, cine exhibitors have not yet made up their mind to release Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s film here.
 
 On Thursday, when TOI spoke to people in cinema trade, none of the leading distributors expressed any keenness in buying the rights of screening the film.
 
 “Who will guarantee the security and safety of cinema halls as well as that of the audience? There is already a fear in the minds of people, especially families. People will refrain from coming to cinema halls as they already fear violence,” said an owner of a cinema hall in the city on condition of anonymity.
 
 Such is the fear of Shree Rajput Karni Sena and their threats of using violence against cinemas which plan to screen the film, majority of cinema hall owners and distributors refrained from coming on record on the issue.
 
 “This state government failed to maintain law and order at Sanvarad when people organized a sit-in for a gangster who died in police firing. How can we expect them to maintain law and order at 300 cinema screens across the state,” asked a film distributor.
 
 According to sources, the film distributor, who was to distribute the film in Rajasthan, has denied the same. “Only a week is left for release. It’s not possible for any distributor to coordinate with 300 cinema screens and nearly 200 cinema hall owners and release the film. We will wait how the state government and the police respond to SC directive. Even if they deploy a large number of police, the damage has already been done to the movie,” said a Kota-based cinema hall owner.
 
 Rajasthan is among the top five film territories in the country and accounts for 7% of the total revenue. “Last month, after the release of Tiger Zinda Hai, some people vandalised Raj Mandir cinema. The police came to the spot only after the damage was done. I don’t think amidst such apprehension of violence, people will go and watch the film,” said a cinema owner of Jaipur.
 
 
