AHMEDABAD: City police in the last week caught seized just 467 spools of ‘Chinese manja’ (nylon kite string) and 310 ‘Chinese tukkals’ (sky lanterns), which have been banned by the state government. These Chinese threads and tukkals have been banned through a notification, but according to officials, neither theforestdepartment nor the police seem keen on implementing the ban. A senior forestofficer, who asked nottobe identified, said, “The ban is only on paper and action was only taken to show that they have taken action. Chinese thread is available in the market.”

 According to the city police, only 39 cases where people were caught with one or two firkis (spools) were registered, while just nine cases were registered for the illegal sale of ‘Chinese tukkals’. According to police, they registered one case for the sale of ‘Chinese manja’ on January 9, followed by four cases on January 10 and from January 11, 31 cases have been registered. However, only Sunday evening will tell how effective the ban on ‘Chinese tukkals’ has been.
 
 Meanwhile, 1962, the “Karuna Abhiyaan” control room number was not operational today. Several citizens say they are unable to lodge requests for bird rescues. People also complained using the Citizen Reporter app of The Times of India. Khusbhu Shah from Thaltej complained: “I called the bird helpline six times, but there was no response.”
 
 
 
 Ahmedabad: There will be no untoward break in the wind pattern and citizens will be able to fully enjoy   on Sunday. A partly cloudy sky will provide a better backdrop than the full glare of the sun. The   (IMD)- Ahmedabad in its forecast on Saturday said that the winds will remain favourable for kite flying on Sunday.
 
 
 According to the IMD, Ahmedabad, northerly to northeasterly winds will be there on Uttarayan. Wind speed will remain between 10 kmph to 15 kmph on Sunday, higher than in the last few days. Kite flying can be tedious without a conducive breeze. This Uttarayan, kite flyers will be able to enjoy themselves.
 
 “The city will witness partly cloudy sky and the minimum temperature is likely to reach 17°C on Sunday,” said the weather forecast. 
 
 
