PUNE: The Shivsrushti project will come up on 50-acre bio-diversity park ( ) land in  , while the Kothrud garbage depot land will be used for constructing   depot.

 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis made the announcement in Mumbai on Tuesday. The much talked about Shivsrushti project will see the light of the day nearly eight years after it was approved by the civic body.
 
 Shivsrushti will be a permanent exhibition depicting the life of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. It will also showcase replicas of forts from his empire. The general body of the   (PMC) had approved the project in 2010.
 
  
 The plot in the prime location of Kothrud, which used to be a garbage depot, had been a bone of contention for long. While political parties demanded the plot for Shivsrushti project, the authorities wanted   rail depot to come up there.
 
 When the garbage depot was closed down, the civic body had promised to set up a public utility project but the land had been lying vacant. The land at survey numbers 92 and 93 in Kothrud will be given for metro terminus.
 
 According to the elected members, the Shivsrushti project will be executed on survey 99 and 100, which is currently under BDP. “A project report will be prepared to highlight the steps needed to make this project a reality in BDP. Details of the financial aspects of the project will be a part of the report,” said Mayor Mukta Tilak.
 
 A group of elected members had been demanding that the project should be set up in Kothrud, while some demanded that it should come up in Bavdhan. 
 
 The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), which had announced an agitation for setting up Shivsrushti at Kothrud, has withdrawn its agitation following the announcement by Fadnavis.
 
 According to the corporators who were present at the meeting, the decision regarding allowing constructions at BDP is likely to be taken in the days to come. Another meeting has been called in a fortnight to discuss the issue.
 
 The development plan (DP) for the merged villages recommends reservation of 1,600 hectares of land for the BDP. The civic body will have to acquire 978 hectares of land from individuals for the BDP.
 
 
