PATNA: Travel firms in the city are facing cancellations of bookings to southern states this summer following the outbreak of the deadly   in Kerala that has claimed several lives. If travel agents are to be believed, many cautious Patnaites have cancelled their air and rail tickets to Kerala, Karnataka and  .

 Gyaneshwar Sinha, an executive of a travel agency, told this newspaper on Thursday the firm has cancelled five flight tickets to Kerala via Bengaluru in last two days. “Initially, we could not figure out why the people were cancelling their tickets to southern states. However, it later became clear that the tickets and bookings for hotel rooms were being cancelled due to the fear of Nipah virus. We have refunded partial amount of ticket cancellations to the customers. Some people are also rescheduling their vacation plans to hill stations in north India, such as Dehradun and Mussoorie,” Sinha added.
 
 Another travel agent,  , said the firm has cancelled seven flight bookings and three train tickets to the southern states, especially to Tamil Nadu and Kerala. “I believe that in coming days, more people will cancel their bookings,” said Prakash.
 
 Snigddha Shrey, who had planned to leave for Kerala with her family on May 31, said she had booked the flight tickets in April. “Now, we will go to Nainital next month. Visiting Kerala was a risky affair due to the outbreak of Nipah virus in the otherwise beautiful state,” she added.
 
 Moni Nandini, a resident of Pataliputra Colony, said, “We have cancelled our holiday trip to Bengaluru and Puducherry as a precautionary measure. Now, I have bought tickets at exorbitant prices for a five-day trip to Srinagar.”
 
 Anshu Kumar, a resident of Phulwarisharif , said, “I had planned to leave for south India on June 8. However, I am in a dilemma now whether to cancel the ticket or wait and watch till the situation improves in Kerala.”
 
 However, IndiGo and Jet Airways sources said was no fall in number of passengers travelling to southern states this summer. 
 
 
