Bhopal: The price of diesel touched an all-time high on Tuesday. It was sold at Rs 68.9 in Bhopal. The cascading effects of the steep rise in the price are likely to be felt within a week.

 Expressing concern over the hike in the diesel rates, transporters said the prices of vegetables will go up immediately, which would be followed by a rise in prices of other commodities. Meanwhile, farmers said that ploughing has become costlier, thereby increasing the cost of farming.
 
 “Diesel should be sold to farmers at subsidised rates,” said Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakka ji, national president of Kisan mazdoor Sangh.
 
 In January this year, diesel was sold at Rs 62.37 per litre, which went up to Rs 64.55 on January 15. After increasing by a few paise on a regular basis, the rate of the fuel in the state capital on March 15 was Rs 66.46. On April 2, it got to an all-time high at Rs 68.09 a litre.
 
 President of Bhopal transport association Ashok Malpani said, “The hike in diesel prices has already created trouble for those operating one to two trucks. They have stopped plying. As the season of transport of food grains started, there is shortage of trucks in the market. The transport charges are going up. I am deeply concerned over the repercussions.”
 
 “I don’t know what lies in the store for us. People will feel the heat soon,” he added.
 
 Dinesh Jain, one of the biggest transporters of Bhopal who operates more than 250 trucks, said: “Rates of diesel directly affect the aam aadmi. Prices of things like vegetables are affected immediately, while of those sold on MRP are affected within a month or two, when the manufacturers review the markets.”
 
 The bus operators have already recommended 40 % hike in fares. In a meeting of bus operators on Tuesday with the principal secretary, Transport, Malay Srivastava, they submitted a memorandum demanding hiking the bus fares. Srivastava said he has forwarded the same to the transport minister.
 
 GFX
 
 Diesel dynamics
 
 Cost of farming goes up as tractors, irrigation pumps and generators operate on diesel
 
 Farmers want increase in MSP 
 
 Transportation of commodities costs more
 
 Vegetables, food grains prices to go up
 
 
