BHOPAL: A 35-year-old journalist investigating illegal sand mining cases in Bhind district of Madhya Pradesh was run over by a truck on Monday morning. Identified as  , the journalist was working with a regional news channel.
 
 
 Police said they have formed an SIT team to investigate the case. 
 
 Sources said they have detained the truck driver and he is being interrogated.
 
  
  
 
 The death has sparked off political slugfest with the Congress leader Jyotiraditya Scindia demanding a CBI probe into the case and chief minister Shivraj Singh jumping in to defend his government and assuring that safety of journalists would be ensured at all costs. The Bhind Press Club has also demanded an impartial probe in the case.
 
  
  
 
 Sources said Sandeep had filed a complaint four months ago citing threat to his life from a police officer after a ‘sting operation’ against him. Sources said Sandeep had filed a story accusing the officer of being hand in glove with the sand mafias. An audio conversation of the officer in question was aired by his channel after which the officer was transferred, said sources.
 
  
  
 
 Sharma’s two-wheeler was hit by the truck from behind killing him on the spot around 9 am, just a few meters away from the Kotwali police station. The truck was found abandoned a few kilometres away. A CCTV footage that surfaced within a few minutes of the crime shows Sharma riding a motorbike which vanishes under a truck that mows him down on a busy stretch in the Bhind town.
 
 “CCTV footage shows the bike overtaking the dumper on the left and then turning to the right. Dumper driver would not have seen the bike till it swerved and came in front,” said a policeman wishing anonymity. 
 
 Sharma is survived by his wife and two children aged 14 and 15 years. Sharma’s death triggered a panic among other journalists in the region. It is alleged that police responded after 15 to 20 minutes despite the spot being a few meters from the police station.
 
  
  
 
 
