CHANDIGARH: The road between   and   leading to   village has been in a very bad shape for the past four years, claimed commuters. Several requests to the administration for repairing the road has gone unheard. The road with its torn asphalt is in immediate need of attention as it has been giving a tough time to the commuters plying on the road. 

 The said road is under pitiable state, and has   all over. Commuters have been complaining that the road poses danger to life and is riskier at nights as the potholes can’t be seen by commuters making it difficult to be avoided. The road needs a major re-carpeting to avert any major accidents. 
 
 Shiv Kumar, a commuter, said “It’s impossible to drive on the road beyond a speed of 20-20 kmph. It’s riskier for two-wheelers as one can easily lose balance. At night the stretch is mostly dark due to which people avoid taking the road.”
 
 The locals claimed that the road was re-carpeted long back, and is now in a bad shape. Another commuter,  , said, “The poor condition of the road also invites anti-social elements at night as the bumpy rides makes it difficult for commuters to drive their vehciles at a fast speed. The commuters often fear using the stretch in the late hours of the day due to suspected presence of miscreants.”
 
 The stretch started disappearing from corners giving way to gravels, which can be seen on the surface.  , a resident, said, “Not only vehicles, the pedestrians too can’t think of walking on the road, as cloud of dust makes it tough for people to even breathe. The road must be re-carpeted, in the interest of the people.”
 
 The locals claimed that driving on the road at night is no less than jeopardising one’s life, as any accident can take place. The locals demanded that the road should be repaired immediately so people can be assured of safe rides. 
 
 Kartik Singh, a resident of Sector 21, said, “I came in this area to meet a friend and was shocked to see such a road in Chandigarh. The authorities must take the matter seriously so that people are not forced to face such problems in future.”
 
 
