Eight people including women and children were killed as a private bus collided with a TNSTC bus near Oddanchatram in Dindigul district on Sunday. Five people died on the spot while three others succumbed to their injuries in hospital. Around 35 people sustained injuries and were undergoing treatment at various hospitals in Dindigul and Oddanchatram. 

 The government bus was heading towards Coimbatore from Dindigul while the private contract bus with just the driver and cleaner was travelling in the opposite direction from Oddanchatram. Police said that the accident was due to the negligence of the private bus driver identified as Pandiarajan, who was chatting with the cleaner while driving the vehicle rashly. The accident occurred while negotiating a slight curve at Moolachatram near Palakkanoothu village under Oddanchatram police limit. 
 
 The private bus hit the right side of the TNSTC bus, in its middle part, inflicting heavy damage on it till the rear-most seat. While the passengers seated in the front part of the bus, laden with around 45 passengers, escaped with injuries, those seated at the back were the ones who lost their lives or suffered grievous injuries. Only the front portion of the private bus suffered damage. The victims includes Joe Daniel, 12, Vasigaran, 2, Sabari Harvick, 6, Vishwanathan, 63 and Sathyamoorthy, 45. The identity of three more people was yet to be ascertained. 
 
 Dindigul district superintendent of police R Sakthivel told TOI that private bus driver Pandiarajan had escaped from the spot while the cleaner was brought to the station. However, the driver would be caught soon, he said.
 
 A police team rushed to the spot and helped the injured persons in getting the treatment. The injured passengers including women and children were shifted to a hospital near the accident spot. The bodies too were shifted to the government hospitals. With the accident choking traffic movement for at least an hour, police swung into action, shifting the mangled remains of the vehicles and restoring traffic. Ministers Dindigul C Sreenivasan, M R Vijayabaskar and C Vijayabaskar who were in Dindigul to attend the MGR centenary function rushed to the hospital and consoled the injured people.
 
 
