GHAZIABAD: A police force that had launched a drive a few years ago to reunite lost children with their families has been accused of keeping an eight-year-old boy found travelling alone in an auto for three days in a police station before informing the child welfare committee.

 Sources said the boy had told the police in   that he lived with his parents in Mandawali in Delhi and his father Ansar drove a cab for a living. The cops had reportedly brought the boy to the police station on Tuesday after he was found travelling alone in an auto-rickshaw. The police have denied keeping the child in the police station. 
 
 Officials of Childline, a non-government organisation for children in distress, said the police should have informed them within 24 hours of finding the boy or at least sent him to a shelter home. Instead, the boy was allegedly kept in the police station till Thursday evening and asked to sleep on the cold floor. The Childline officials said he complained of ache all over his body, possibly caused by lying down on the hard surface. 
 
 Since being allegedly handed over to Childline on Thursday, the boy has been shifted to a shelter home.
 
 “The child is in a state of shock and wants to go back home in Mandawali. He told us he is the youngest of five siblings and that his father is a cab driver. He was found in Indirapuram travelling in an autorickshaw alone,” child welfare committee member Shalini Singh said.
 
 Singh said the cops’ decision to keep the boy in the police station amounted to violation of the Juvenile Justice Act. She pointed out that the   had been credited a few years with launching a drive — Operation Smile — to reunite lost kids with the families.
 
 “This is quite shocking and a serious violation of the juvenile justice act. We have written to the district probation officer, requesting action against the cops,” Singh said.
 
 District probation officer Atul Soni said he had ordered a probe into the matter.
 
 Acharya Tarun Manav, the caretaker of the shelter home where the boy has been kept, said the kid had spent most of his time sitting on a wooden bench in the police station, going out only for toilet breaks. “This caused him knee ache. There should be a fair probe into the matter,” he said.
 
 Sanjay Kumar, a Childline member, said: “It is against the rule to keep a child in the police station at night. Moreover, he/she should be presented before the child welfare committee within 24 hours of being found. These days, there is a provision to present a kid before the committee during the night as well.”
 
 SHO, Índirapuram, Sachin Malik, denied the allegations. “The boy was found on Thursday. We immediately called up Childline and handed him over to them. The allegation that the boy was kept at the police station is baseless,” he said.
 
 The officer said a constable had been sent with the boy locate his house, but he failed to do so. “We had also sent a message on wireless to Delhi Police,” he said.
 
 
