MUMBAI: A 42-year-old father of four was   on Monday morning for allegedly repeatedly   his two older   aged 17 and 13 for two years. 

 A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court on Monday remanded the accused, a  , to police custody till April 13.
 
 The 17-year-old survivor, a Class XI student of a city college, finally confided in her mother about the siblings’ ordeal on Sunday, after their father threatened to cut off money for her education and throw her out of the house if she stopped giving into his demands. The mother confronted the father who, in turn, abused her and the survivor. This prompted them to register an FIR. In her statement to the police on Sunday, the   said she did not remember the exact date when her father began to abuse her two years ago. The girl said she lived at home with her parents, three younger siblings —two sisters aged 13 and 10 and a three-year-old brother. She said her paternal grandparents also lived with them.
 
 The minor told cops that while her ailing mother was confined to the lower section of the house, she would study upstairs, where her father first attacked her. The girl told cops that she did not understand what was happening and when she questioned her father, he abused her and threatened to kill her baby brother if she told anyone of the crime.
 
 She alleged that the abuse continued over the next several months. Then in November or December last year, the girl said that she and her younger sister were watching television in the upper section when their father sexually assaulted her sibling as well. The girl said when her sister began to scream, she tried to stop him but he attacked her and sexually abused her too.
 
 The older survivor told cops that her father would threaten to send her mother and herself to work in hotels and make money by engaging in sexual encounters with other men. 
 
 Police have booked the accused under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and  . He was arrested from his residence at 6am on Monday. Cops sought the man’s custody on the grounds that his medical examination had to be conducted. They also submitted that the minors had been moved to a shelter home. 
 
 Defence advocate R U Jha opposed the prosecution’s plea for his custody and said it was not required for conducting his medical tests.
 
 
