RAIPUR: Brigadier (retd) B K Ponwar, a war veteran and former commandant of the elite Jungle Warfare School, has raised doubts over the effectiveness of Mine Protected Vehicles (MPV) against  , saying: "The safest vehicle in mined   is your own foot." 

 Ponwar knows a thing or two about counter-insurgency as he taught Army commandos to "fight a guerrilla like a guerrilla". There is no MPV that can withstand the IEDs of Bastar as they have 20-80kg explosives, he told TOI. "Enough to sink the Titanic," he said.
 
 It's said that the triple IED that ripped the MPV to shreds on Tuesday had 50kg explosives. "If you want to be safe on Bastar's mined roads, walk - that's safest. Or use motorbikes. MPVs aren't designed for guerrilla warfare," he said.
 
 In fact, MPVs can give a false sense of security to troopers, he cautioned. "It's meant for protection against conventional mines laid on the Western border but this is guerrilla war in Bastar, where you have to fight like a guerrilla," Ponwar said, adding that MPVs can withstand small-arms and machine-gun fire but can't stand RPGs (rockets) or the IEDs that Maoists use.
 
 Ponwar has set up a counter-terrorism and jungle warfare college at   in Bastar on the invitation of the   government to train paramilitary soldiers in guerrilla tactics.
 
 He advises optimum utilization of tools and resources to detect IEDs. "Advanced technology may be needed to accurately detect IEDs in advance, but it's possible with the available resources, too. Deployment of sniffer dogs is a must as they are trained to sniff out bombs laid 20-25 inches underground. Mine-detection equipment immediately beeps on presence of an IED. UAV is a strong weapon that alerts about any suspicious activity," he said.
 
 Security forces should stick to SOPs in insurgency-hit areas, he said. "Road-opening parties are a must before troops move from place A to B. Road clearing should be done in the morning and should cover 10km in five hours. Constant patrolling and good relations with villagers will thwart any strategy of planting IEDs as locals inform security forces about Maoists' visits and laying of bombs," Ponwar said.
 
 The need of the hour is to intensify cordon-and-search operations and introduce new posts in Abujhmad area of Narayanpur - the heart of Maoist network in Chhattisgarh. This is the time to push forward, he said.
 
 The Tactical Counter-Offensive Campaign (TCOC) - when Maoists unleash violence in the summer months to rearm, regain ground and strategise - is in fact an opportunity for forces, he said. "TCOC is only a name. The terrain rather becomes suitable for operations and visibility improves. Rivers are at low level, which is advantageous," he pointed out.
 
 
