Trichy: If the winds of change are blowing in  , nothing would demonstrate it better than the city’s shifting cultural mores ahead of Valentine’s Day. If marketing offers were earlier visible only on the occasion of festivals like Deepavali and Pongal, these have started raining on couples as well as groups in the week running into Valentine’s Day on February 14. 

 Bill boards of shops show a variety of concessional prices and offers for Valentine’s Day which have been received well by the public too. Since the city is shorn of popular leisure spots for people to spend time outdoors, several cafes, bakeries and fashion outlets have come up with attractive offers to celebrate the day. With no irritants by way of resistance or moral policing in their way unlike in some cities, Trichy, despite being rooted to tradition with the presence of centuries-old temples, is being seen as a liberal city by youths.
 
 Days ahead of Valentine’s Day, a handful of outlets in Trichy had made use of the social media platforms to pass on information about discounts and special offers. Many say this is an unprecedented development for the city where people have been often identified as deep-rooted in tradition. This is the first time in recent years that shops have come forward with exclusive offers for youths to celebrate Valentine’s Day.
 
 Among the interesting offers, Superstar Pizza, an eatery functioning in Thillai Nagar, has come out with a liberal offer aimed at groups, who are not necessarily couples. V  , manager of the pizza outlet, says that wheat base for any pizza will be available free of cost as against the Rs 40 per pizza charged on other days. Similarly, customers ordering for more than Rs 600 would get either a chocolate pizza or chocolate pasta on February 14 free. “Not just for lovers and married couples, even people arriving with friends and families in group are entitled to avail the offer on Valentine's Day,” he said.
 
 However, there are also offers that strictly apply only for couples — be they married or unmarried. First Crush, a café selling hot and cold beverages, has come out with an exclusive invite for couples on Valentine’s Day. For Rs 500 per couple, the beverage shop will offer unlimited fresh juice, ice creams and snacks on V-day. “The response and enquiries about the offer thus far were good, particularly among the youngsters. This is the first time we are providing such an offer on Valentine’s Day,” an employee with First Crush said. 
 
 Not just eateries and café, even fashion outlets have come out for the first time to recognise Valentine’s Day as an occasion to celebrate. F3 fashion, situated on Sastri road, has a peculiar offer. A purchase in the male garments section comes with a freebie in the female section too on equal price range. Employees of F3 fashion said that a shirt worth Rs 500 worth comes free with a female gear for the same amount. P P Prakash, a clinical researcher who had purchased dresses for his family at the outlet, claimed that Valentine's Day was close to his heart. “I got married on February 12 and in two days' time got to celebrate Valentine's Day with my wife. So, we always make it a point to club both the days and celebrate by buying new clothes for us,” Prakash said. 
 
 Youngsters hailing from other states, working as professionals and studying in city colleges, said that they felt comfortable here while going out with friends of the opposite gender. Affirming the claims of the youths, Trichy police sources said that they had not felt any requirement to mobilise police force in hot spots where couples will celebrate Valentine’s Day.
 
 
 
 
 
