CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum has awarded its highest ever “deterrent compensation” of Rs 1 lakh to an insurance buyer from   on his complaint against two companies who had denied him medical claim for the treatment of his wife for kidney disease.

  Company, Sector 34, and  , Industrial Area Phase II, Chandigarh, were found guilty of manipulating facts and misinterpreting the terms and conditions of a medical policy to reject the medical claim of Zirakpur’s  . The insurers were directed to repay him the deducted amount of Rs 1.88 lakh along with 12.5% interest from the date of repudiation of claim (February 7, 2017) to the realisation of the payment.
 
 
 Shiv Kumar had bought   insurance policy from the companies for Rs 5 lakh, with a cumulative bonus of Rs 1.35 lakh effective from February 22, 2016, to February 21, 2017. Under this policy renewed in 2006, his wife and two sons were insured. In 2016, his wife was diagnosed with kidney disease, for which she took treatment worth Rs 3.69 lakh from a   hospital. However, the insurers only passed Rs 1.80 lakh to the family and deducted the rest wrongly.
 
 TPA’s reason for the deduction was that the complainant’s wife had come into this condition because of a preexisting disease (hypertension) and was covered after four years. This is despite the fact that she never had hypertension or took any medication for it, except during pregnancy more than eight years ago.
 
 The companies even reduced the sum insured from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 4 lakh without any plausible reason. The complainant requested them to consider his case for reimbursement of the balance claim, but in vain. National Insurance stated in its reply that if a subscriber had hypertension, her expenses towards hypertensive nephropathy (treatment of kidney disease because of high blood pressure) were not payable.
 
 Shiv’s wife, Mamta, has continuously been on dialysis because of kidney failure. Keeping into consideration the harassment to her, the forum observed that it has eroded her faith in the insurance system, as she didn’t get the money despite emergency requirement.
 
