COIMBATORE: The division bench of the Madras high court has put a stay on the order of collector   that regularised a sewage treatment plant (STP) and an RO plant set up on an open reserved site in Flushing Meadows, a gated community constructed by   at   village here.

 Judges M Sathyanarayanan and P   said that the sewage treatment plant has been set up on plot no.4 of the park site and though many directions were issued, it was not demolished and continues to function. “The plant is also not running scientifically and hygienically and it continues to emanate foul smell. Residents in the locality find it extremely difficult and suffer very much and the third respondent (district collector), totally ignoring the said communication by a cryptic order, has issued direction for regularization, based on which, the block development officer of the panchayat has also passed appropriate proceedings,” the bench observed.
 
 The collector had passed an order in January, 2018 to regularise open space reservation land located at Vellanapatti. The order did not carry a date. “TN   had ordered the block development officer ( ), who is the special officer of Vellanapatti panchayat, to allow an illegally constructed sewage treatment plant to function on the OSR site that was earmarked for a park by the directorate of town and country planning,” said CK Perumal, the petitioner.
 
 When TOI contacted him about the irregularity, the collector had retracted the order and said that he would cancel it immediately.
 
 On April 25, the court had passed a stay and asked all the respondents to appear on June 29. The judges stated in the order that, “Prima facie disclose that the sewage treatment plant has been put up by Elysium Properties India Private Limited on a park site and by taking into consideration the settled position of law, once the land is reserved for public purpose, it cannot be used for any other purpose. Hence, there shall be an order of ad-interim stay till May 29, 2018.”
 
 Elysium Properties India Private Limited had constructed the plant. After the residents raised objection and appealed to the national green tribunal, the central pollution control board submitted a letter after inspecting it in March, 2017. In the report, the board stated that the plant was not functioning properly and has not been maintained as per norms. It also questioned the engineering aspects. Later, the panchayat ordered to seal the STP. 
 
 The property developers maintained that they had set up the STP for the benefit of the people and they had got a court order as well. But, the court had directed the local planning authority to take steps within a month in 2016. But, no action was taken. 
 
 Meanwhile, residents petitioned the district collector against the non-functioning STP. After various inspections and reports, the BDO had ordered the sealing of the plant in 2017. But in January, the district collector had ordered to BDO to regularise the site and allow the STP function there.
 
 
