GAYA: Vice-chancellors of Magadh and its off shoot   will discuss the draft memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Thursday.

 The MoU to be signed between the two universities will contain the modalities of bifurcation of assets, liabilities, responsibilities and apportionment of the nearly 500 non-teaching employees working with the university headquarters.
 
 The discussion will be held at the   in the presence of senior officials of the education department.
 
 Pataliputra University, notified on April 9 with retrospective effect beginning March 18, is the second off shoot of MU. Earlier, Veer   (VKSU) was carved out of MU. Almost 20 out of the 64 of the then MU constituent colleges were attached to university with Ara as its headquarters.
 
 Following the bifurcation, the parent university is left with only 19 constituent and one government-funded minority college, as 25 constituent and three government-funded minority colleges are with the Pataliputra University. MU colleges are located in the five districts of Magadh division including Jehanabad and Arwal. Colleges located in Patna and Nalanda districts, except the one’s tagged with Patna University, are now part of Pataliputra University.
 
 According to sources privy to the draft MoU, MU will immediately transfer Rs 2 crore to the Pataliputra University account through   to meet the new university’s running expenses. More money will be subsequently transferred to the new university.
 
 In respect to the apportionments of headquarters employees, it is proposed that those approaching the superannuation age and having serious health issues would be retained by the parent university. The number of such employees is said to be about 100. Of the remaining nearly 400 employees, 73% would be shifted to the new university and the remaining 27% employees would be retained by the parent university
 
 Pataliputra University will be liable to pay salaries and post-retirement entitlement of its employees with effect from April1, while payment prior to the cut off date will be MU’s responsibility. Similarly, MU will conduct exams of students registered in the sessions 2015-18, 2016-19 and 2017-20 of the three- years degree course and PG sessions 2016-18, 2017-19 and other backlog exams.
 
 Changes in the draft MoU may be made subject to vetting by the education department and the Raj Bhavan.
 
 
