KOLKATA: An attempt is finally under way to remove an eyesore that has permeated the very fabric of the city in the past three decades. The mesh of cable wires hanging from lampposts, trees and every vantage point not only spoils the city's skyline, it has even caused fatal accidents like the death of an 18-year-old youth in Park Circus this January.

 Addressing multi-service operators (MSOs) and cable operators on Friday, chief minister   asked them to clean up the act and clear up the city. Speaking at the cable TV summit, she urged all stakeholders, including   (KMC), public works department (PWD) and private utility CESC whose posts are used to string up the cables to chalk out astrategy that would set the house in order.
 
 “The cable TV industry has progressed and prospered in the past three decades. There is alot that you have done. But there is something more that you need to do, especially in removing the mess of cables that has become an eyesore. All stakeholders should evolve a publicprivate partnership ( ) model to either take the cables underground or carry it overhead through a pipeline,” she said.
 
 While constructing ducts will be expensive and time consuming, cable operators said the mess can be cleaned up if multiple users including, MSOs and telecommunication firms that also use overhead optic fibre cable ( ) lines to provide internet connection join hands to lay cables.
 
 The city has around 2,500 cable operators and 17 lakh cable homes, where the cables are connected. A conservative estimate puts the length of cables dangling all over the city at 20,000 km. On main roads, one could find 50-100 cables of which half could be damaged and should have been removed while fresh cables were being laid but have been left there. Any drive to bring order to the system will lead to natural clean-up.
 
  of   welcomed the proposal and said all MSOs would support the government in its drive.
 
 The drive will require setting up of a design and technical team that will create the architecture for laying the cable network afresh across the city.
 
