BENGALURU: Fluffy idlis in sambar dips, crunchy vadas, crackly on the outside, but soft within, crispy dosas in neat folds, with mashed potatoes tucked in their belly and the ever-sizzling chilli bajjis -- while these toothsome items have quintessentially served our taste buds in Namma Bengaluru, especially filling up our snack time, a fuss-free gastronomical delight from a faraway land appears to be fast making the city its home and the citizens its patrons. 

 These tiny blobs of white come in groups of eight or nine, sitting pretty on yellow, green, blue and red plates, ready to be devoured in big gulps. Add to them a dash of spicy red dip (chutney as it is colloquially called), generously peppered with chilli flakes, and the ‘steamy’ affair is complete.
 
 Call it food bonhomie, the   and the momomen are both a growing breed in Bengaluru. Be it on the tony Church Street or the upscale 100ft Road, Indiranagar, far away from their land of origin, the demur dumplings seem to have arrived. Right out of the steamer, they are a rare variety of food that doesn’t leave you dripping with guilt. For once you can overeat and probably still not mind a piece or two more.
 
 While the silver-hued steamers, propped up on stools, silently do their job, casual chats with the momomen serve up some interesting nuggets of information. It’s business time only till the momos last, they say. The sellers get a few hundreds of the neatly designed pieces stuffed with veggies or chicken in bags-full from home and only steam them by the roadside. And it’s only a matter of few hours between setting up and shutting shop, as the dumplings mostly disappear in no time, they aver. Talk about ease of doing business!
 
 While weekdays see a sale of around 40-odd plates a day, on weekends the number soars to 50-60, they add. A mere 50-70 bucks are enough to make for a happy momo meal for any hungry soul. What more, in some places you’d even get cups-full of piping hot vegetable soup as a side with the heavenly delights. Surely, the combo can’t get better.
 
 In a city dotted with fashionable cafes and countless eateries, momos are not just easy on the pocket, but also serve as quick fills that you can grab on the go.
 
 Curiously though, the tiny tuck-ins appear and disappear like phantoms. And by some evil design, they'd go missing especially on days you’d be ravenously craving for just them and nothing else. So, the next time you spot them, it’s almost as if you have discovered something divine, something truly ‘momo’licious. Such is their allure that you cannot but be lured. Every single time.
 
 
