MADURAI: Two alleged rowdies were shot dead by the city police on the outskirts of the city on Thursday evening in what the police claim to have been an act of self-defence. 

 The alleged encounter took place at   in the rural police limit, when a six-member police team in civil attire attempted to arrest a gang hiding in a residential building. 
 
 According to the police, the deceased were identified as M   alias Saguni Karthick, 28, from Kamarajarpuram in Madurai city and I Muthu Irulandi alias Manthiri, 30, from   near Varichur in the district. 
 
 The duo belonged to  's gang which had a long-lasting rivalry with the V K Gurusamy gang. In fact, the rivalry between the two gangs has claimed more than 10 lives so far. 
 
 While14caseswere registered againstKarthick including five for murder, 11 were registered against Muthu Irulandi including four for murder. Barely four months ago, the duo, along with six others, killed one Sadaiyandi from V K Gurusamy gang, the sourcessaid.
 
 The firing took place in a house located on Mandhai Amman temple street which falls under Alanganallur police limits around 4.15pm. According to the police, the team went to the house based on specific information. Whilesome of the gang members escaped, Karthick and Muthu Irulandi attempted toopen fire.
 
 Madurai DSP N Manivannan said that when the police team tried to arrest them, they locked themselves from inside and attemptedtoopen fire at the police. One policemen was injured while trying to break open a window earlier.
 
 Police said that two rounds of fire were opened, one on each of them, by the police team led by Sellur police law and order inspector Manivannan and sub-inspector Murugan. There were at least five people including another history-sheeter, Mayakannan, in the house which belonged to him. On sensing the police, he along withothers managedtoescape.
 
 Commissioner N Manivannan and deputy commissioner of police, Madurai city, P Sasi Mohan, rushed to the spot and conducted inquiries. The bodies were shifted to Government Rajaji Hospital for autopsy and theunlicensed gun was seized.
 
 The incident created tension following which the entire street cordoned off. A woman from the neighbourhood said the police had asked them to lock themselves in their houses but knew of the reason only after a large number of police personnel rushedtothespot.
 
 
 
