CHANDIGARH:   forest department has decided to distribute around 2 lakh   to farmers next year to enhance their income and end their dependence on routine crops.

 Punjab forest and wildlife preservation minister Sadhu Singh   said sandalwood saplings are being prepared at the medicinal plant nursery in Bhatoli village of Dasuya tehsil in   district. According to him, his department also plans to prepare saplings in Mohali and other places. These saplings will be provided to farmers for Rs 10 to Rs 12, said Daramsot, adding that the rate of one kilogram of ‘A’ grade sandalwood in the market is around Rs 8,000.
 
 Saying that the the forest department got good results for the 15,000 saplings planted earlier, Dharamsot said sandalwood saplings will be distributed to farmers after conducting soil test of their land.
 
 On the issue of encroachments, Dharamsot said of the 31,000 acres of forest land under encroachment across the state, legal cases are going on for 21,000 acres while 2,000 acres have been freed of encroachments. 
 
 He said encroachments have been removed in Muktsar, Bathinda, Ferozepur, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Sangrur, Ludhiana, Ropar, Nawanshahar, Amritsar and   districts. He also said six acres of expensive land, with an estimated cost of Rs 50 crore in Pathankot, has been freed.
 
 The forests minister said his department would soon establish a big saw mill in Kandi area to take the employment generation campaign of the government forward. According to him, the project will come up at either Machhiwara or Hoshiarpur and provide employment to 10,000 to 20,000 people. As part of a strategy chalked out to check incidents of wood theft, ministers are personally conducting checks at a few places, he said. 
 
 In 2015-16, Punjab’s forest cover was 1,771 square kilometers, which has now swelled to 1,837 square kilometers, he said, adding that almost 23,000 acres of land has been notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) for 15 years in semi-hilly villages in Mohali. He also said there was a nexus of colonisers and politicians here.
 
 
