KOLKATA: Yet another film, this one directed by a senior   cop, has run into the crosshairs of the regional office of the   because of the word “Gujarat”.

 The censor board has asked for six modifications, including muting of “Gujarat”, in the Bengali film “Aaleya”, directed by Bengal deputy inspector-general (traffic) Humayun Kabir.
 
 The film revolves around actor Tanushree Chakraborty playing a cop, who investigates the murder of   (played by Priyanka Sarkar).
 
 The   recommendations state “Gujarat” has to be muted on the two occasions it occurs; there is a clampdown on the words “Ahmedabad”, “Jai Shri Ram”, “Kafer” and “Trishule genthe” as well.
 
 “There was a lengthy discussion at the CBFC office on Friday. The film has a reference to the 2002 riots and how they have impacted lives of people even in Bengal. We have tried to show that fundamentalists exist in both Muslim and Hindu communities. It is a fact that riots did happen in   during February and March 2002. We have nothing to hide,” Kabir said.
 
 Kabir admitted to being “disappointed” about not being able to use the words “Gujarat” and “Ahmedabad” in his film. “Modifications will help the film get the UA certification,” he said.
 
 CBFC regional officer Partha Ghosh, asked about Friday’s oral hearing where the recommendations were made, said: “We do not have any authority to say anything on this. We don’t discuss internal matters.”
 
 Actor Goutam Halder, who plays Aaleya’s father, mouths most of the controversial words in the scene that has attracted the CBFC’s attention. He gets into a war of words with her schoolteachers, while refusing to allow Aaleya to play Holi in school, and refers to how a community was targeted during the Gujarat riots. Aaleya’s schoolteachers insist that all acts of riot have elicited protests and that such incidents do not happen in Bengal.
 
 The CBFC is expected to issue the official show-cause notice to the makers with the recommendations on Monday. “We want to release the film a day before Eid. We have decided to accept the recommendations since we have been assured that the pace and the spirit of the film will not be hampered despite the mutes,” Kabir said.
 
 Film-maker Aniket Chattopadhyay, who is the creative director and script writer of “Aaleya”, says muting these words will not come in the way of what they have tried to depict in the film. “Every viewer will be able to understand what we are referring to even if thse words are muted. That’s what also happened when the CBFC asked Suman Ghosh to mute the word ‘Gujarat’ from his Amartya Sen documentary,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 The CBFC has recommended muting the words “Jai Shri Ram” from a dialogue showing sloganeering right-wingers wearing headbands but has gone easy on “Har Har Mahadev” in the same scene. “The CBFC’s sensitivity towards ‘Jai Shri Ram’ is new,” Chattopadhyay said.
 
 But Kabir is happy that the CBFC has allowed scenes raising issues like child marriage in rural India, cow-smuggling and fake currency. “We have also raised questions regarding instant triple talaq. Aaleya has been given lines where she asks why a woman’s consent is taken during nikaah but not taken during instant triple talaq. I am glad the CBFC has let these scenes go uncut in the film,” Kabir said.
 
 
