HYDERABAD: The Director of   has suspended the organ transplantation licence of   following an enquiry based on the complaint lodged by a doctor regarding irregularities in kidney transplantation.

 
 The suspension order dated May 21 issued to Continental Hospital by the DME says: “Continental Hospital managementknowingly had a facilitation agreement with one Tareque   who was already arrested in kidney trade in Bangladesh and was sending kidney donors to foreign countries for transplants. In spite of alert by  , the applications were forwarded with fabricated documents to DME office for permission for transplants. This is a highly unethical act of Continental Hospital and will bring disrespect to the organ transplantation programme in Telangana.”
 
 However, given the human consideration, the cases registered till May 21 were permitted but no fresh case should be taken up after theorder,itsaid.
 
 Dr S Praveen Kumar, a former doctor of Continental Hospital, complained to the DME on July 26, 2017. Subsequently, a complaint was filed with GachibowliPS basedon which an FIR was issued on allegations of criminal breach of trust and violation of the provision of Human Organ Transplantation Act.
 
 DME Dr K Ramesh Reddy served notices to the hospital in September 2017 asking for an explanation. He observed that the explanation by the hospitalwas very superficial and did not answer specific points stated in the complaint. The complainant and   were called for personal hearing on April 28 this year.
 
 The DME report said, “Dr Kumar mentioned that the hospital has an internal transplant committee consisting of a medical director, senior physician and senior non-medical executive as members and it was video recorded. With the video and evidence, it is clear that the international transplant committee rejected records of two organ recipients Taslima Islam and Mohammed Jehangir Hussain. Continental Hospital was all along aware that the documents were fabricated,” the report said.
 
 However, Continental Hospital has been claiming that all organ transplants were done following rules after approval from authorities. “We believe DME order is harsh and the hospital was not provided adequate opportunity to be heard. It is unfortunate the decision was taken on misleading information. We strongly rebutted the allegations by submitting relevant documents to authorities despite constraints. We will seek remedies against the unjust order,” said the Hospital management.
 
