Directed by Shashanka Ghosh,  , starring four leading ladies, including  ,  ,   and  , tells the story of four women at different stages in their lives. Let’s take a look at what these veeres are all about.

 
  Kareena is a bride, who is in the middle of all the action at a big,fat Punjabi wedding. She is sure about the guy she wants to be with, but is commitment-phobic. This leaves her in two minds about taking the plunge. About what intrigued her about the film, Kareena says, “I wanted to be a part of Veere Di Wedding because it’s the first time that the audience will see a story from the perspective of four women.” 
 
 
  She is a successful divorce lawyer, who is passionate about her work. She also wants to get married, but her love life is non-existent.Talking about joining hands with the other actors, Sonam reveals, “Filmmaking is a collaborative process. All four of us were on the same page and that made shooting for this film that much more enjoyable.”
 
 
  This rich-spoilt brat, who calls a spade a spade, is on the brink of ending her marriage. Highlighting how all four women don’t fall in love with the same guy, Swara adds, “It’s taken years for filmmakers to finally make a film about women having unabashed and unapologeticfun. This is the first film where we have four mainstream actors who are not falling for the same guy. That in itself is a big achievement. The film portrays a certain urban reality.”
 
 
  She’s happily married, but she had run away from her parents’ home to do so. Reminiscing about the film’s shoot, Shikha says, “We became veeres the minute we met. There was a different kind of vibe on the set and we had a blast. I am glad to be a part of this film, as it gets you to shed your inhibitions and empowers you in so many ways.”'
 
 
 
 
 
  Calling the film a chick flick puts it in a bracket. At a juncture where we are trying to break away from labels, it’s high time we had a film that doesn’t judge women and, at the same time, is aspirational. When I decided to start producing films, I wanted to make movies that my friends and I would go watch on a Friday night. Veere Di Wedding is that film.
 
 
  When I heard the script, I absolutely loved it. I decided to back it even though everyone told me it was too risky. It’s an entertaining film with four hot leading ladies, which reinstates the fact that women don’t need to live by labels. The film resonates with both boys and girls because above all, it’s a film about friendship.
 
