GHAZIABAD: Four men accused of smuggling and bootlegging liquor in   surrendered themselves in a local court on Wednesday. These men were among eight people named as accused in a case at   police station on Tuesday after they had fled leaving behind their vehicles near Delhi border, with a large consignment of smuggled liquor inside. 

 Dilip Rana, Bunty alias Kalia, Mintu Masala and Ranjit Mondal gave themselves up before judicial magistrate Renu Yadav, who sent them to judicial custody for 14 days. Police said their accomplices - Ravi Yadav, Jiti alias Jeetender, Bunty Chauhan and Ravi Khari - are yet to be arrested.
 
 Police said all the eight were involved in smuggling of liquor from across Delhi and selling them in Khoda Colony after packaging the same in bottles of popular brands. And it's suspected that four men who died in Khoda Colony earlier this month drank spurious liquor packaged in bottles of Party Special, a brand popular in Haryana. However, cops are yet to get the chemical analysis reports of the alcohol samples. 
 
 On Tuesday, these men had left behind an SUV bearing a flag of BJP and an   motorcycle at Ambedkar Gate of Khoda Colony adjoining   in Delhi after spotting a police team. From the SUV, police had recovered 480 quarter bottles of foreign liquor that were sealed and 96 bottles that were unsealed. Besides, five litres of illicit liquor inside a jerry can and five kg urea were also recovered. The number plates of both the vehicles were found to be fake after verification. We are trying to ascertain the actual registration numbers of the vehicle as well as their owners," Khoda's circle officer Dharmendra Chauhan told TOI.
 
  BJP district president Basant Tyagi also denied that the seized vehicles belonged to any party member. "The men who have been named in the FIR also do not have any links whatsoever with out party. Criminal elements have been using flags belonging to the party to hoodwink police and enforcement authorities," he said.
 
 
 
