COIMBATORE: Every month, Raji (name changed), a student at the R S Puram Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School, collects Rs 10 each from her 70 classmates to purchases mops, dust bins, chalk boxes and other essential items for her classroom. Her parents often question her about the need to spend on the essential services that the city corporation is supposed to provide, Raji told TOI.

 “But, teachers have told us that it is our classroom and we should maintain it. So, we pool money to buy everything,” she said. What’s worse, the students have also been told to mop the floors and clean the rooms twice a week. “The sweepers appointed by the corporation will sweep only the verandah and the ground. They do not clean the floors of the classrooms,” said Raji. As a result, the students have to mop the floors of all the 13 classrooms in the school.
 
 The corporation had deputed a private contractor to employ two sweepers and a security guard at the school. The contractor, however, is still being paid monthly for the maintenance of the school premises, a corporation official said.
 
 Their parents are not so happy about spending money for the upkeep of the school, the students said. “We have to buy new mops every three months,” said a student.
 
  during the working hours is another problem. “Whenever we do not bring lunch, we have no way but to buy food from shops. Earlier, a security guard used to help us buy food. But, now we only have a night watchman. The school does not have a canteen or a store to purchase food from,” said a student.
 
 Meanwhile, the school headmistress told TOI that the students clean the facility on their own volition. “They are doing it on their own to keep the classrooms clean. We haven’t asked them to buy chalk pieces and other items. We have purchase bills for that,” she said.
 
 City corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan said that he was not aware of the issue. “I do not think there is a fund shortage. I will look into the issue,” he said.
 
 
