NEW DELHI: The National Investigation Agency’s probe into a series of targeted killings in Punjab, including that of   and a pastor, has unveiled a transnational network of conspirators affiliated to Khalistan Liberation Force (KLF) and backed by Pakistan’s ISI, with linkages running through Dubai, France, UK, Italy and Pakistan. 

 As per investigations, KLF chief Harminder Singh Mintoo, now lodged in Patiala jail, and his close Pakistan-based aide Harmeet Singh had allegedly masterminded the killings of members of a specific community with the aim of destabilising law and order in Punjab and reviving terror. Sources told TOI that radicalised Sikh elements based in UK, Italy and France came together to arrange training of the two hitmen who executed the killings, funding of the seven targeted killings being probed by NIA as part of the case, and other logistics. 
 
 Harmeet is suspected to be the main brain behind the killings, including that of RSS pracharak Ravinder Gosain in October 2017, Shiv Sena leader Durga Das Gupta and pastor Sultan Masih. Said to be operating under tutelage of ISI, he was in touch with hitmen Ramandeep Singh and   via an encrypted communication channel. 
 
 The Pakistan-based KLF leader was responsible for choice and approval of the targets, overseeing the flow of funds for execution of the conspiracy, giving detailed instructions on the killings and keeping the killers motivated. The two hitmen, who are among the 11 arrested by NIA in the case, were separately trained in foreign locations by Gursharan Singh, a resident of UK and aide of Harminder Mintoo and Harmeet. Ramandeep was ‘recruited’ via a fake Facebook account and given training in Dubai in March-April 2015. 
 
 The training lasted 15 days and involved motivational talk and firing practice at Sharjah Shooting and Golf Club. Hardeep was trained at Brescia, Italy in mid-2015. Gursharan travelled by train to Milan, where he met Hardeep at the station and the two then travelled to Hardeep’s uncle Gurjinder Singh alias Shastri’s house in Brescia. 
 
 It was here that he was motivated and trained in firing skills. Gurjinder, who had met Harminder Mintoo in France in July-August 2013, also gave funds to Hardeep through cash delivery by a travel agent in Pakistan, money transfer and deposits into Hardeep’s post office account. Gurjinder was reportedly in touch with two Pakistani numbers, according to NIA sources. While the actions of Ramandeep and Hardeep were coordinated, they never communicated directly except when they met. Another UK resident Jagtar Singh Johal, who is reportedly close to a KLF financier, arranged finances that were used to purchase murder weapons, execution of the killings and for personal expenses of the two hitmen. The NIA has traced financial transactions to Jalandhar, Ludhiana and Patiala and also to UK, Italy and Dubai.
 
