Contrary to the statements of Madurai Corporation’s health officials that the ban on plastic bags less than the 50 micron has been effective, plastic bags are easily available in many parts of the city, say residents.

 The corporation officials in the recently-held capacity building programme for urban civic bodies and stakeholders on the waste management rules 2016, stated that the ban was strictly enforced with special thrust in the areas around Meenakshi Amman Temple.
 
 But, residents opine that plastic bags are freely available in all shops and everywhere including the areas around Meenakshi Amman Temple. The problem lies in the absence of the sustained follow up. They said that the ban was enforced intensively for a few days and there is a let up by the officials of late.
 
 Women wing secretary of Thangappal Alagarsamy Lakshmiammal Social Welfare Consumer Awareness Centre M Pandeeswari said, "Although there are inspections by the officials, the traders continue to use banned plastic bags," she said adding that more stringent action is required to achieve the desired results.
 
 The use of plastic bags less than 50 microns is banned under the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 and the local bodies can enforce the rules by imposing a fine amount determined by them. Madurai Corporation can collect a fee starting from Rs 100 to Rs 10,000.
 
 Residents said that the rule was strictly implemented around Meenakshi Amman Temple in January, 2017. Most of the traders had explored alternative options and came up with different ideas keeping in mind the viability of the business. While most of them started using plastic bags above 50 microns, a few have started using paper bags. To motivate people to act against the violators over phone, a cash reward was also announced.
 
 S K Mathivanan, a resident from Melaponnagaram, said that plastic bags were the main reason for clogging of channels in the city. During rains it also causes formation of breeding grounds of mosquitoes by slowing down the flow of drainage.
 
 Head of Environment Management of Engineering Staff College in Hyderabad Subha Muthu Kumar said, "As the plastic bags less than 50 microns get damaged in the first use itself, it is not fit for repeated use. Due to this, it is being used in large quantity resulting in environmental pollution. It is becoming a challenge for the local bodies to collect the plastic waste and safely decompose them."
 
 Madurai city Corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that the ban is enforced. He said he will again do a campaign to strictly implement the ban once again.
 
 
