NAGPUR: It is turning out to be a glorious season for Vidarbha cricket. Following in the footstep of the Ranji team, the Vidarbha Under-19 side made it to the final of the   final on Monday. This will be Vidarbha’s maiden final appearance in the tournament. 

 On Monday, Vidarbha pushed Punjab out of the final contention by virtue of taking lead. They were also on top for most part of the of the four-day match at VCA’s Civil Lines Stadium. 
 
 After posting 440, thanks to skipper Atharva Taide’s century in the first innings, Vidarbha bundled out Punjab for 199. The colts then batted the rival out of the contest by putting up 294-5 and declaring on Day 4. 
 
 Yash Rathod, who scored a century against Hyderabad in Vidarbha's season opener, was the hero again as he posted 124. The bowlers then reduced Punjab to 95 for 6 when the stumps were drawn, heralding a new chapter in Vidarbha’s cricket history.
 
 
  
 Congratulating the side, victorious Ranji captain Faiz Fazal said, “The team has played really well this season. They have put up a dominating show throughout the season. I’m sure we will get this trophy as well. They should just hold their nerves. When we reached the Ranji final we had a similar plan. We talked about keeping calm and not trying anything different in final.”
 
 Before Monday, Vidarbha had never gone past the semifinal hurdle. The last time they managed to reach the last four stage was in the 2004-05 season, under the captaincy Shalabh Shrivastava. 
 
 In 2006-07, Vidarbha colts were the champions of the plate group with Usman Ghani being the coach of the team. Incidentally, Ghani is handling the present lot too. 
 
 Years of being looked upon as a ‘plate grade’ fuelled the team’s ambition this time around, Ghani feels. “In the past Vidarbha were considered pushovers. Rivals used to treat Vidarbha as minnows. They used to take a win against us for granted. We wanted to change that. Now, no team takes Vidarbha lightly. It feels great,” he said.
 
 The superb show by different Vidarbha teams is the result of a system that is in place since last many years, Ghani said. “Since the last 7-8 years we, at the VCA, are working on producing international players. We have a system with the aim of producing India players. It is producing the desired results,” he said.
 
 At the forefront of the Vidarbha’s dream season was Yash Thakur. The bespectacled southpaw is the leading run-scorer of the tournament with 937 runs under his belt in eight matches. He has posted five centuries and two fifties. 
 
 Others in the batting unit too have made significant contributions time and again. The likes of wicketkeeper batsman  , skipper  , Aniruddha Choudhary, Avesh Sheikh, Nayan Chavan and Sandesh Drugwar have been among runs.
 
 Parth Rekhade has led the Vidarbha bowling unit well. The left-arm spinner figures among the top-ten wicket-takers with 37 scalps to his credit. Leg-spinner Rohit Dattatray has so far taken 34 wickets while right-arm medium pacer Drashan Nalkande (26 wickets) too has performed well. 
 
 
