Hamsa Mohan’s reasons for subscribing to a co-working space were motivated by the “strictly professional environment” it promised. “You are surrounded by professionals driven by their own respective purposes. There is constant scope for networking, and brainstorming. You also finish your day’s work quickly and more efficiently than in a home environment or a conventional workplace,” says the 28-year-old freelance content writer.

 However, a month after joining W-Square, the city’s only exclusive co-working space for women, Mohan has more substantial takeaways — how does a business get GST registration, or the best digital marketing hacks to know.
 
 With the potential market size for the co-working segment across the country currently in the range of 12-16 million seats, India is expected to emerge as a leading coworking market in the next five years. And understanding the potential of their growing women clientele, these spaces are upgrading their services and coming up with knowledge-sharing tools, networking opportunities, and mentoring sessions for women to strengthen and capitalise on what they see as a thriving female-driven business ecosystem.
 
 “We want to get women back to work and maximise the potential of those who are already working,” says   of W- Square, which has held more than 70 skill-building workshops.
 
 “They target women looking to get back to work after a sabbatical, especially post kids. It puts them in touch with what is currently happening in the market,” says Ramanathan. W-Square offers services such as home-cooked meals, chopped vegetables and 24-hour concierge services for its clients.
 
 Most co-working spaces are creating support systems for women entrepreneurs until they take off and become independent. Market players like IndiQube have started networking clubs for women, while others offer incubation programmes and opportunities to sell and scale up businesses.
 
 Two Trees in Chennai, has collaborated with FICCI FLO to introduce Swayam, an entrepreneurial initiative that helps women validate their business ideas.
 
 “When their idea is getting validated, most women do not have the money to put into an office space. So we offer ours for free so that they can think through this process like professionals, and also interact within the ecosystem,” says Priya Goutham, founder, Two Trees. Vocational workshops are also held for single women entrepreneurs to help them validate what they are trying to do before they get into it full-fledged.
 
 Ramya Subramanian, 38, had been grappling with financial planning and revenue generation since she started her digital marketing agency a few years ago. But business planning workshops organised by W-Square have helped answer several important questions. “Being able to discuss challenges in an open environment has helped me address them in a smarter way,” she says. “Entrepreneurship is a lonely journey. You need constant support, direction and handholding.”
 
