NEW DELHI: Having found major anomalies in the banking sector while investigating the Rs 13,578 crore   fraud,   will soon send a detailed assessment report to the government and the RBI listing flaws in the banking industry and recommending corrective measures.

 
 The development comes even as the central agency has almost completed the probe in the   scam and is preparing a file a chargesheet against  , Mehul Choksi and 17 others next month. 
 
 The chargesheet, which will mention PNB issued 293 LoUs and 224 FLCs to Modi and Choksi, will be crucial for extradition of the fugitive businessmen.
 
 The CBI’s assessment report, which sources said may recommend complete revamp and improved oversight of public sector banks, will be prepared with the PNB fraud in mind.
 
 The report will include details on how bank officials, particularly of public sector banks, ignore RBI guidelines while sanctioning credit facilities, deliberately favour certain individuals/companies by looking at their brand value and how loans are sanctioned arbitrarily without verifying documents submitted by the borrowers, irregularities in the audit of branches and poor oversight of branches having high value transactions.
 
 A source said, “In the case of Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, PNB’s   branch issued 293 Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) and 224 Foreign Letters of Credit (FLCs) to overseas branches of Indian banks. There was no genuine effort from PNB to verify if the money was being given to Nirav Modi’s suppliers or not.
 
 Also, the overseas branches didn’t bother to check the documents or raise an alarm on why PNB officers referred LoUs beyond the timeline of 90 days, in some instances for about 360 days.”
 
 Since the PNB scam came to light in February, the CBI has received complaints and registered over four dozen cases related to bank frauds.
 
 According to sources, the CBI’s assessment report will also explain how banks sit on frauds for a very long time before approaching investigation agencies, anomalies in hiring of panel valuers and misuse of technical systems like not recording SWIFT transactions (global messaging service to raise buyers’ credit and funding the Nostro accounts) in the Core Banking System ( ).
 
 The agency has, in the past, sent such reports on government-run units and financial institutions, in which investigation details, weak links in the system and remedies are listed by its experts. The government takes the CBI’s recommendations into account and makes suitable changes in rules.
 
