It was over 20 years ago that   used to frequent Delhi while shooting for her TV shows Surbhi and Antakshari in Noida and various other parts of Delhi, something she fondly remembers. The actress, who was seen in 3 Storeys – her first Hindi film in almost 14 years – was in Delhi recently and spoke to us about her memories of the capital, why she doesn’t mind being typecast after  ..!, and how she deals with Twitter trolls.

 
 
 Coming to Delhi after so many years, Renuka says that the city has retained its character even though its façade has changed over the years. Talking about some of those changes, she tells us, “Mumbai has changed so much over the years but Delhi hasn’t, in comparison. Of course, when I see the flyovers and new buildings, I say to myself, ‘Wow yaar, bahut saare changes aa gaye hain’. The roads are lovely. But what I feel bad about is the pollution here. The air in Delhi used to be lovely once. I remember coming here and seeing the trees and the vast open spaces and feeling overawed. That I do miss a bit.” Recounting her shooting days in the city, Renuka says, “We shot a lot here, mostly in studios in Delhi and Noida, and most of my memories from that time are of good food. I’m pretty sure that’s true about this city even today. I think Delhi and food go hand in hand and luckily, that will never change.”
 
  
    and Renuka in a still from Hum Aapke Hain Koun..!
 
 
 
 While Delhi still seems familiar to her, the actress is amazed at the transformation of Noida. She shot for   at Film City in the mid and late ’90s, and says the place looks unrecongisable now. “Noida used to be khaali then. Where we shot Antakshari was the first of the studios to be set up in Film City. It used to be such a remote place back then. We used to hear that it is a developing city and people will come here. It had just begun to grow back then. Now, it is a seat for media. It surprises me how much it has grown in so little time,” says Renuka.
 
 
 
 Most moviegoers still remember Renuka as Pooja from Hum Aapke Hain Koun..!, even though the film released 24 years ago. Renuka says that she received no fewer than 25 movie offers as the bhabhi or the sister immediately after the film’s release, and for many years, these are the only roles she was offered as filmmakers clamoured to cast her in the same mould. However, the actress doesn’t feel bad about the typecasting. She explains, “I wouldn’t say it has been anything negative. How many character actors are blessed with that kind of a memory, that a character stays on in people’s minds? I don’t look down upon that or feel trapped by that in any way. I only feel it has been a huge plus point. I took a fourteen-year break from acting and people still want to see me. That is a huge plus.”
 
  
  
 
 
 While she might have been away from Bollywood, Renuka has been quite active on social media. Her tweets and open letters on Facebook often go viral. However, her opinions have also earned her quite a few incidents of being targeted by social media trolls. She tells us how she deals with the incessant trolling on social media, “Earlier, I used to feel bad ki kaise baat kar rahe hain log. At that time, it was surprising for me to see that people can troll others and abuse them. It is increasing because of the anonymity. If you are anonymous and faceless, you can do it. Celebrities can’t be faceless. There was this very interesting experiment where trolls were made to sit in front of celebrities and asked to read out what they had tweeted about them, and they couldn’t. It shows that as a person, you are not who you are on Twitter. So I do believe that they think since they are anonymous, they can write anything. Now, I just block and report. Who has the time and energy to deal with trolls?”
 
  
  
 
 
 Talking about Madhuri’s down-to-earth behaviour, the actress tells us, “It was wonderful talking to Madhuri, working with her and observing her. I always tell any co-actor that I meet that if you get a chance to work with Madhuri, you should pay the producer and work, because it’s an education. It’s an education of how to maintain your success, how to be grounded and how to treat people with respect. Whether it’s a fan, a spot person or a producer, she doesn’t change her behaviour according to who’s in front of her. Her behaviour is respectful and graceful. I think that was a great experience for me and I carry forward those fond memories. We’ve met over the years, you know like, while she was getting married, after that when she had kids, and whenever she used to come to India (when Madhuri was living in the US). We used to bump into each other at public functions also. So, when we got a chance like this, we had so much to catch up on! We discussed all sorts of things – motherhood, homework (laughs) to films and the kind of offers we are getting. So I think it’s wonderful to be back with her,” Renuka says.
 
 
 -- Shrishti.Bhatia@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
