ROHTAK: Director of   (IIM),   was booked on Tuesday by the Haryana police for outraging modesty of a former faculty member, who lodged a formal complaint against him. The police have registered a case under Sections 354 (outraging modesty of a woman) and 354 A (demand for  ) of the IPC against  , based on the written complaint by the victim.

 
 The 34-year-old said in her complaint to the Rohtak women police station that she had joined the IIM Rohtak on September 1, 2017 and was on probation for three years. Sharma was her reporting manager.
 
 The former faculty member alleged she had to face continuous sexual   and advances from the accused right from the beginning. She alleged that Sharma once sought her views on extramarital relationships, indicating his interest in her. He also expressed openness about it and questioned her about quality of  , she alleged.
 
 The former faculty member felt uncomfortable and avoided the discussion.
 
 
 
 
 The former faculty member alleged that the director once came to her cabin, stood extremely close to her and touched her inappropriately. Shocked, she screamed loudly at being allegedly molested. The accused had also urged her to go on night walks with him.
 
 The complainant alleged that the accused threatened to spoil her career if she chose to raise the matter publically. She had filed a complaint against Sharma on March 25 with IIM Rohtak’s board of governors, but was yet to hear from them.
 
 She alleged that she was terminated from service on May 10 after she did not surrender to his advances.
 
 Rohtak SP Jashandeep Singh Randhawa confirmed an FIR had been registered on the woman’s complaint.
 
 Efforts to reach Sharma on his cellphone proved futile as all the calls went unanswered. However, IIM Rohtak PRO Gunit Sethi contacted TOI on phone to pass on the director’s reaction to the complaint. “The institute terminated the woman professor nearly a month ago. She is doing this to defame the director and the institute. This is all an afterthought,” the PRO said.
 
