Jaipur: In a major breakthrough Jaipur police have busted a gang of   involved in looting people on National Highway-8 connecting Jaipur to Delhi. Three persons have been arrested in this connection. Police have also managed to recover stolen items including 3 vehicles, 5 mobile phones and an air gun which the gang used to intimidate victims. According to the police the average age of the robbers is 21 years and they were involved in many incidents of robberies.

 “Acting on a complaint by a family on February 19 in which the family was robbed by unknown robbers, a team was constituted. Various CCTV footages were taken from the toll plazas and a few bailed out accused in robbery cases were interrogated. After technical surveillance the accused identified as Sikandar Shaukeen (20), a native of Ajmer, Vikas Jogi (22), a native of Khetri and Vikram Rawat (21) of Beawar were arrested by our team,” said Rameshwar Singh, superintendent of police, Jaipur (Rural) on Sunday.
 
 Police said that the robbers were into such incidents for easy money. “They used to intimidate the victims with an air gun which has been seized by our team. We have also recovered 3 stolen vehicles, 5 mobile phones and 4 batons from their possession,” said an officer.
 
 Senior officers added that earlier organised gangs of Mewat were into highway robberies who used to first hire vehicles from Jaipur and later used to attack the drivers to decamp with the vehicle, however these days youngsters are into such robberies.
 
 “They start chasing the vehicles from Jaipur itself and after the vehicles pass through countryside or are at deserted areas during late evening hours, the vehicles are intercepted by the robbers,” said an officer.
 
 It may be recalled that a family was travelling to Delhi from Jaipur when they were surrounded by armed robbers near Chandwaji on the Jaipur-Delhi National Highway-8 during early hours on February 19. The robbers had managed to decamp with Rs 4,000 in cash, jewellery and their car before leaving the family on the highway.
 
 
