NEW DELHI: Indraprastha Gas Ltd ( ), the sole supplier of clean-burning natural gas as automotive and kitchen fuel in NCR, has stepped in to help stop   burning, identified as a major cause of air pollution in the city and its suburbs.

 The company on Monday joined   with Mahindra Waste to Energy Solutions Ltd (MWESL) , a subsidiary of automaker Mahindra & Mahindra, for designing and developing plants for producing gas from crop stubble and organic waste, providing cultivators a remunerative alternative to burning farm waste.
 
 IGL is the second company to   efforts at stopping stubble burning. State-run generation utility NTPC earlier this month started the process of procuring farm stubble pellets to fuel its Dadri power plant with the aim of giving farmers a profitable alternative to burning crop residue and opening up a new market for rural entrepreneurship.
 
 The MoU signed by IGL and MWESL envisages setting up such plants in Delhi and other cities such as Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Rewari, Gurugram and Karnal where IGL supplies CNG and PNG. The plants in Gurugram and Karnal are set to start operations shortly.
 
 The project aims at converting paddy/wheat straw into gas which can be used to run generators for lighting up villages or boost IGL’s supplies for meeting its expanding consumer base. The leftovers will be used as organic fertiliser to improve soil quality.
 
 “IGL has been proactive in leveraging latest technology in all its operations for community benefit. Environmental pollution is the biggest concern in the region today and it is our endeavour to reduce alarming levels of pollution apart from creating opportunities for additional income for farmers,” IGL MD ES Ranganathan said.
 
 Hemant Sikka of Mahindra Waste to Energy Solutions said the project would pave the way for creating energy-independent villages and a pollution-free environment. “This will also enable villagers to create their own self sustained villages in terms of energy requirement and rural employment.”
 
 The company is seeking supply of 1,000 tonnes per day of the farm residue-based fuel in the form of pellets or 'torrefied' briquettes, 500 tonnes each a day, and offered a two-year contract. 
 
 
