The winters might have receded and the warm months already here, but the swimming season in Gurgaon is yet to begin. Public swimming pools in Gurgaon are closed from December to April, as most unheated pools require temperatures of over 35 degrees Celsius to be bearable for swimmers. Most academies and public pools begin operations in the city around mid-April. However, that poses a problem for the countless triathletes and competitive swimmers in the city, who start preparing for their competitions early. In the absence of heated pools in the city, Gurgaon swimmers are left with three options – practising in unheated pools, making do with the few heated pools in the city that are not adequate for competitive training, or travel to the heated public pools in Delhi or Noida.

 
  
  Swimming coach Manisha Khungar practises with Gaurav Makkar and Neetin Verma at the heated pool in Central Park Resorts, a residential society in Sector 48 
 
  
 Many swimmers say they have reduced or modified their swim training schedules, or are travelling to Delhi or Noida, where there are a couple of public heated pools.
 
 
  
  Location Courtesy: Central Park Resorts
 
   , who is preparing for the Ironman Triathlon, says, “I have had to cut down on my swim training due to logistics. I don’t want to, but I have to. I travel to Noida, where there is a heated pool, and since the commute takes a lot of time, I can only do swim training on the weekends. The only other option is to go to   or Siri Fort in Delhi, but they are not always available.” 
 
 
  Sector 56 resident Abhishek Mishra, who is aiming to finish all the 40 Ironman Triathlons by 2020, says, “Since I am trying to finish all the Ironman Triathlons, I have events all round the year and cannot skip swim training at any time. I travel to Siri Fort in Delhi for swim sessions, but even that pool closes after January. Talkatora only gives you 45-minute sessions, which are not enough for the kind of training we endurance triathletes do.”
 
  Some of the athletes swim in the few available private heated pools in the city, even though most such pools are not built for competitive practice but for leisure swims.
 
  
  
 
  Gaurav Makkar, a triathlete who has finished both Ultraman and Ironman triathlons, says, “Most swimmers and triathletes make do with cold pools. I am lucky to have a heated pool in my residential society, but it is not deep enough for serious competitors. Still, something is better than nothing. I do whatever limited training I can do here.”
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Swimming coaches say that they actively discourage people from training between December and March because of the lack of heated pools, even if it means that the athletes miss out on participating in a lot of events. Manisha Khungar, a swim coach based in the city, says, “I discourage triathletes who come to me targeting events in July or August because there is simply not enough time. Because of the absence of heated pools, they can only begin swim training by April, which does not leave them with enough time to get up to speed in the time for the triathlon.” 
 
 
  
  
 
  Gaurav, who is also an Ironman-certified triathlon coach, adds, “Some of my trainees even stop training in the extreme cold months of December and January. It is not ideal because that means you cannot train for a lot of major events, including the Ultraman in Florida as it takes place in February.”
 
 
  
  
 
  Not just triathletes, but even swimmers preparing for state and national-level meets defer their training to the hot summer months. “There are a few kids training with me who are preparing for national-level swim meets. But for winters, since there are no pools available, I switch them to strength training so that they at least stay active,” says Manisha. 
 
 
  
  
 
  Avantika, a 16-year-old swimmer from the city, tells us, “The only option is to travel to Delhi and practice at Talkatora Stadium, but it is not always possible, as both my parents are working and I can’t travel that far alone every day. So, I only swim on weekends in winters and spend the weekdays in the gym building strength.” 
 
  Swimmers say that while substituting time in the pool with gymming isn’t ideal, it makes sure they don’t waste an entire season doing nothing. Rohan, a 15-year-old budding swimmer from the city, tells us, “I was hoping to take part in some swim meets or even a triathlon in the summer, but for that I would need to start training seriously in February, or latest by March. Since there are no heated pools, I haven’t been able to practice. Instead, I work on my strength and conditioning so that at least these two months are not wasted.”
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
