PUNE: Sachin Parashar and his wife have made arrangements for a hassle-free New Year's Eve. 

 The young couple from Koregaon Park has booked a cab for four hours, starting from 9pm, so that they can party without worrying about transport. 
 
 "We only recently shifted to Koregaon Park. Earlier, we lived near  . We have a place in a lounge in Amanora Mall," Parashar said.
 
 He added, "Although we have our own vehicle, we decided to book a cab for a few hours. We are spending Rs4,000 for the seats in the lounge and didn't think twice about spending a little more on the cab, which is a better and safer option on a day when nearly everybody drinks and celebrates."
 
 Cab aggregators like Ola and Uber, expectedly, predict a surge in business. "We can't provide figures, but there will be a 30-40% jump in bookings," an Ola spokesperson said, "As our fleet is limited, we have encouraged people to opt for our car rental service. There has been a lot of interest in this."
 
 According to sources, there are 5,000-6,000 Ola and Uber cabs in Pune.
 
 "We have also trained our driver-partners on handling customers coming from a party. We expect most of them to be drunk, so we have advised our drivers to maintain calm and ensure safety of women passengers. We have also tied up with various pubs and lounges for a campaign against drunk driving," the Ola representative said. 
 
 Rajeev Sareen, a student, and four of his friends have booked a cab for three hours. "It is always safer as people tend to drink and drive. I just hope our booking isn't cancelled at the last minute," Sareen said. 
 
 Uber, for its part, has done away with scheduled rides for 12 hours starting 8pm on Sunday. "There will be a surge in bookings, so the best way for people to get a ride is to instant book. This is to ensure shorter wait times and higher efficiency for our driver partners, Customers are free to decide on the ride as they will be shown fares before confirming," an Uber spokesperson said. 
 
 A Kondhwa-based car rental company is booked to capacity. "People have booked cars for regular destinations like  , but we saw local bookings for the first time. Eight of my 20 vehicles were booked locally for an average of four hours," an official said. 
 
 
