Nagpur: Shiva Tripathi, 22, has been arrested along with three others by Lodhikheda police station on Wednesday, cracking the mysterious murder of BJP East Nagpur youth wing vice-president Atul Daharwal on Monday. Tripathi, pretending to be innocent, had been trying to mislead the victim’s family and also investigations. He used to pose as if he was searching for Daharwal, along with the victim’s family, and also visited Lodhikheda police station, where he is now in the lock-up, during the probe. Apart from Tripathi, the three others named in the murder are Aditya Sarate (23), Arvind Thakur (24) and Sandeep Singh (25). Lodhikheda police station senior PI GS Uikey said the numbers of arrests could increase. The senior officer also claimed the alleged mastermind of the murder, Tripathi, is a bookie. He also added that Daharwal too was a bookie, and wanted Tripathi to work under him, resulting in the dispute that led to the murder. Police said Tripathi had lured Daharwal to accompany him to Dodhiya Borgaon in Saunsar tehsil of Chhindwada district in Madhya Pradesh. He had promised that a ganja peddler was ready to deliver a sizeable consignment, which could be sold at a higher rate. “Tripathi had planned the murder on January 4 and roped in accomplices from Chhindwada,” said Uikey. “On January 7, Tripathi and his accomplices reached Nagpur from Chhindwada to execute their plan. They stayed at Tripathi’s place at Indora, before heading towards Daharwal’s place near Subhash Putla to pick him up,” he said. Daharwal was murdered on January 8. The body was discovered a day later, following which an offence of murder and destruction of evidence was registered at Lodhikheda police station. Police had found some cash in Daharwal’s pocket but his cell phone was missing. He was identified with the help of a bill found in his pocket. After the body was brought to the city, shops and establishments at Gandhibagh and Itwari had been compelled to shut down. PI Uikey also said Daharwal was unhappy with Tripathi for switching loyalties. Tripathi, who had associated with Daharwal around a year ago, had started a cricket betting racket independently. Daharwal was pressuring Tripathi to return to his fold. Uikey said that Daharwal, Tripathi and his gang were involved in many illegal activities. “The murder was cracked with the help of cell phone call details and tower locations,” he said. “Tripathi spilt the beans during interrogation,” he said.