GURUGRAM: The government has finally decided to appoint Haryana State Industry and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) as the agency to accept and handle claims of homebuyers and farmers affected in the   land scam. Both groups of affected people have to submit their claims to   by April 28.

 According to sources in the know, a notice has been issued in this regard, stating that in compliance with the   order dated March 12, 2018, all ‘third parties’ from whom developers or other private entities had collected money, will be entitled to a refund of the amount, or will be allotted plots or apartments at the earlier agreed price, whichever is higher.
 
 All applicants have to submit their claims at the HSIIDC office in Manesar for verification. “We’ve asked everyone concerned to submit their claims with us by April 28,” said an HSIIDC official. The format for submitting claims is available on the corporation website.
 
 Vipul Goel, minister for industries and commerce, who was attending an event in Gurugram, said, “We have been mapping the land affected due to the scam. Further action will be discussed at a meeting in Chandigarh on Tuesday.”
 
 The notice further states that in cases where construction has started or the project is complete or nearing completion, the apartments shall be handed over to the claimants on the same terms and conditions as agreed upon between the developer and buyers at the time of purchase, upon verification of the claims.
 
 In its order, the Apex court had said all homebuyers who have brought properties in projects developed on land that is part of the Manesar land scam, were entitled to claim their properties. It was in this regard that the Supreme Court had given the claimants a month’s time to submit their claims with HSIIDC or  .
 
 The process, though, got delayed since the government did not decide on which agency will handle the claims till a couple of days back. Though the order brings relief to homebuyers, the delay means the deadline is tight for many NRI homebuyers who have travelled to Gurugram for the invested in these projects.
 
 
