AHMEDABAD: A 17-year-old   (science) student   hours before the   began on Monday. In a note found in her room, she said that her   for the exam was why she was taking the extreme step.

 Gujarat University (GU) police said the parents of Mansi Patel, 17, a resident of Sureshwari Society, Naranpura, reported her death at 12.15pm on March 12. She had hanged herself from a ceiling fan by a dupatta. A note was found in her room addressed to her parents. She cited depression due to the examination for her suicide.
 
 “The family members said she was a bit sensitive and needed support. She had shown similar signs during the class X examination but the family was behind her and she scored 91%. She had also prepared well for the examination but she was a bit apprehensive about physics, the first paper of the examination. She was a brilliant student and there was no question of failing. The family said that if another paper was first, which may have given her exam a good start, the situation could have been different,” said A B Kale, sub-inspector of GU police station.
 
 In another incident, a class X student succumbed to injuries suffered in a road accident after the exam. Another student, riding pillion on the same motorcycle, is unconscious and is being treated.
 
 Ranip police said Rohit Thakor, 17, a class X student, was accompanying Naresh Thakor, a fellow class X student, on a motorcycle. The duo, students of Gayatri High School, Ranip, were taking the examination at Swaminarayan School in the area. According to the complaint by Kokila Thakor, a resident of Ranip and the mother of Naresh Thakor, the duo left for the Gujarati exam at 9 am on March 12. 
 
 “The duo was near AG Vidyalaya on Radhasaomi Road at about 2pm, after taking the examination. At that time, Rohit, who was riding the motorcycle, lost control over the vehicle which skidded and the duo fell on the road. They suffered head and body injuries. They were taken to the Civil Hospital where Rohit succumbed to his injuries and Naresh is still unconscious,” said an investigator.
 
 
