GURUGRAM/DELHI: Saturday was the coldest day so far this winter in Gurgaon and Delhi as the mercury dived under the 5 degrees Celsius mark in both cities. Gurgaon recorded a minimum temperature of 4 degrees Celsius and Delhi 4.2 degrees.

 Officials at the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre Delhi told TOI clear skies and northerly winds from Jammu and Kashmir pushed the mercury down a notch from the 5-6 degrees mark it was hovering around over the last couple of days.
 
 They said there was “no unusual weather activity at all”, and that wind speed was likely to increase, causing the blanket of fog lingering over the region to dissipate. “Due to the clear skies and brisk wind speed, the temperature dipped. We are likely to see colder days where the minimum will stay at 4 degrees Celsius average. The wind speeed is 8-10 km per hour currently. It is likely to pick up in the coming days. So consequently, fog will also thin out. We will continue to see foggy conditions but it will be shallow,” said an official.
 
 The weather office has ruled out rainfall during this period. Morning visibility will be in the 500-600 metres mark. The new week is likely to begin on an even chillier note with the minimum temperature expected to fall to 3 degrees Celsius.
 
 In parts of Delhi, Saturday morning visibility fell to as low as 50 metres. By noon, however, there was a significant improvement to over 1,000 metres. The fall in mercury also resulted in a spike in the pollution levels with Delhi’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) touching “severe” with an index of 404 – the second time this week. Gurgaon’s   was a shade better at 355, but still in the ‘very poor’ category. Ghaziabad, though, was the most polluted place in NCR with an AQI of 480, classified as ‘severe’.
 
 Within Delhi, Lodhi road was the coldest with a minimum temperature of 4 degrees Celsius. Ridge, Ayanagar and Palam recorded a minimum of 5.5, 5.9 and 6 degrees, respectively. This was also the first time the mercury had fallen below the 5 degrees mark in Delhi. The season’s coldest day before this was January 4 when the minimum temperature was 5 degrees.
 
 D Saha, head of the Central Pollution Control Board’s air laboratory said the deterioration in air quality was due to the drop in temperatures and an increase in humidity levels. 
 
 
