MUMBAI:While Mumbai’s colonial era Hancock Bridge near Sandhurst Road is long gone-—razed to make way for a newer version—the legacy of Colonel   (H F) Hancock, after whom the historic structure is named, continues to live on in the city, and literally so.

 His great-great-grandnephew Frank Hancock (57), a British national, has spent the past 23 years working as a banker in Mumbai—the sixth generation of this British military family to have made the country their home.
 
  
 Next year will mark the 200th anniversary of the arrival of the Hancock family on the country’s shores. The first to reach the city was Henry; Colonel HF Hancock’s father. From 1819 till date, members of this family have lived, worked, fought and some even died in India. Henry’s family from Horsham in the rural county of Sussex, England, made the city their home in 1819—60 years before the Hancock bridge was built. TOI met Frank Hancock, the sixth generation of the family to live in the city.
 
 When Frank arrived in 1994, though, he knew very little about his family history. He was in his early thirties then, recently married, and looking for an interesting career experience as the bank he worked for had deputed him to open an office in Mumbai. “My grandfather Cyril used to tell me tales about his time in India when I was young, but I wasn’t really that interested,” said Frank. That changed in time.
 
 Through a series of coincidences, Frank began to stumble upon evidence of his family’s long relationship with India. Frank first came across a large black and white framed photograph of his grandfather Sir Cyril Hancock, who was private secretary to the  , in the corner of an antique shop in Delhi. Later, he found the place where his great Collegreat-granduncle Charles (Henry Francis’s brother) was killed in Kota in 1857, at the young age 19, during active service with the 19th Bombay Native Infantry Regiment. As the coincidences piled ancesup, Frank realized that there was a “substantial link” between his family and India.
 
 “In 2004, I met a Delhi-based historian, Anita Vasudeva, a specialist in Indian military history from  . She helped me retrieve the story of my family after spending almost 10 years trawling through central and state archives of India,” he said.
 
 Frank was surprised to learn that several of his ancestors had lived in India. “I had absolutely no idea. Then again, being a military family, we tended not to keep records, letters or anything that might have told us about our past,” he said.
 
 It was Frank’s great-great greatgreat-grandfather Henry Hancock who arrived first, in 1819, soon after the conclusion of the Maratha wars. Henry spent 35 years in India, surviving the disastrous first Afghan War.
 
 Between 1819 and 1947, said Frank, “Hancocks were continually present in India, either as soldiers in the Indian Army or as politicals (Indian political service officers who liaised with princely states).” Henry’s oldest son H F Hancock, after whom the Hancock bridge is named, arrived in 1854 at the age of 19, after studying engineering at Chatham in South East England. Ten years of military service later, Henry spent 20 years in a civil role constructing roads, bridges and railways throughout the Bombay Presidency.
 
 The late 19th century was a period of great prosperity for the city largely built on trade. Many of Bombay’s iconic buildings were constructed then and as president of the   in the early 1870s, H F Hancock would have overseen the work, which was why the bridge might have been named after him, said Frank.
 
 H F Hancock died in 1885.
 
 His younger brother George, also an army soldier, is Frank’s great-great-grandfather. George, his son Francis, and grandson Cyril were all soldiers who went on to became politicals. “Being soldiers they kept moving from place to place and their human side was sadly missing from the records we found. All we could trace was their career history, rank changes, promotions,” says Frank.
 
 Frank’s father   also spent his early life with his brother Peter and sister Gill at Bharatpur where Cyril was posted.   was an Arabic-speaking diplomat in the British foreign office and spent most of his professional life working in the Middle-East.
 
 Frank, though, knew little about the bridge until its demolition to make way for a new one. “It was only recently that I read about a new bridge replacing Hancock bridge in the papers.
 
 I sent clippings to my family in Europe who are really excited. I have not yet visited the site but someday, I would love to bring the family back to India-—perhaps when the new bridge comes up—so they know what their family history was like.”
 
