BATHINDA: Shortage of storage space in Bathinda and   districts has made the   stay away from procuring wheat so far, which has led to resentment and anger among farmers. Besides, the field staff of the agency fears being heckled.

 The FCI has demanded security for its field staff in at least seven of the 21 purchase centres in Bathinda district. The FCI has a storage capacity of 11.7 lakh tonnes and nearly 13 lakh tonnes rice is already stored in its godowns in both Bathinda and Mansa districts. Slow pace of movement of rice to other states through the railway network is increasing problems of the FCI. In some of the purchase centres, the FCI has decided to make purchases only if the rakes are provided by the railways to transport wheat directly out of Punjab without keeping the grains in its godowns, which were filled beyond capacity.
 
 Sources said that it was after six years that the FCI was facing space shortage as against the normal movement of 1,000 rakes of rice in a month, only 200-250 rakes were moving out of Punjab for the last three months. One rake of 42 wagons in a goods train carries 2,600 tonnes of rice and in a rake of 58 wagons 3,500 tonnes of rice are transported. The FCI wants protection for its purchase staff at purchase centres of Chathewala, Lelewala, Natheha, Teona Pujaria, Fallad and Kalalwala in Maur and Rama Mandi areas of Bathinda. The FCI has a target to procure 1.80 lakh tonnes of wheat in Bathinda and Mansa distrcts.
 
 The FCI’s procurement manager in Bathinda, Chakkerpani Siddarth, told TOI, “Due to space constraints the agency is forced not to make purchases. We have taken up the matter with our higher authorities and the railways to provide special rakes so that we could make purchases and send wheat grains directly out of Punjab through trains.” He admitted that failure to make purchases was leading to anger among farmers and due to that their field staff was afraid of going to the grain markets and were demanding protection. He said that some farmers had held some FCI purchase officials captive at Chathewala a couple of days ago, which had scared the agency staff.
 
 Bathinda ADC Sakshi Sawheny confirmed that the FCI was facing  . “We have taken up the matter for special trains to transport the grains. The FCI staff has not gone to the grain markets so far. I held meeting with them on Wednesday as we want them to start procurement at the earliest. The administration is ready to provide the logistics and protection if needed. So far, the FCI officials have not given in writing for seeking protection.”
 
 
