Vijayawada:   of Vijayawada Municipal Corporation,  , who helped the city find a solution to garbage management and dumping issues, says the civic body is focused on a number of projects, including grievances redressal on time. Acquiring land for pending housing projects, segregated garbage management, and achieving top rank in Swachh Survekshan are some of the major challenges for Nivas. Excerpts:

 Q: Vijayawada Municipal Corporation ( ) successfully organised the fifth edition of Janmabhoomi — Maa Ooru programme recently. How many grievances were registered this year?
 
 A: We tried to provide best services to citizens during Janmabhoomi this year. We received 36,205 grievances from three circles in the city, in which 25,368 complaints have been uploaded online for the reference of concerned departments, and 10,837 complaints will be uploaded after verification of documents. Majority applications received are for ration cards, urban BPL housing, old age/handicapped/widower pensions, and NTR Vaidya Seva scheme. Our teams are working hard to upload requests online. The work will be completed in a couple of days.
 
 Q: Complaints on the rejection of ration card applications have increased this year. Any specific reason for that?
 
 A: Citizens need to read the application carefully, and fill the forms properly. In majority cases, new applicants have their names registered in the ration card belonging to their parents. They need to first apply for removal of their name from the family card. Such citizens keep applying for new cards, which are automatically rejected based on their Aadhaar details. 
 
 Q: What is the status of JNNURM housing in the city, and what measures have been taken by the VMC to allocate houses to applicants from Devi Nagar, who have already paid the amount to the civic body?
 
 A: Construction of around 750 flats in Ajit Singh Nagar, Vambay colony will be completed by the end of January. These houses have been constructed under Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission Scheme. Around 250 applicants from Devi Nagar have applied for houses, and only a few of them paid application fees to the VMC. Houses will be allocated once construction is completed.
 
 Q: What are the measures taken to complete the 22,000 houses allocated to the city?
 
 A: We have found a site for 12,000 houses at Jakkampudi, and we will start the work soon. There is a shortage of sites for the rest of the houses sanctioned for the city. We have already asked the Andhra Pradesh Capital Region Development Authority to allocate land for this, and there are proposals to acquire land under land pooling scheme at Jakkampudi region. 
 
 Q: What is the status of on-site composting and garbage collection in the city?
 
 A: Segregated garbage collection and on-site composting have been given priority. Wet waste is transferred to on-site composting units, and the compost is prepared there and sold in the market. The VMC is spending Rs 110 crore every year on sanitation. 
 
 
