MADURAI: Taking elegant strides, Chippiparai and Rajapalayam, the two native   once considered as royal symbols, became the toasts of the ramp at the 30th dog show of the   club here on Sunday.

 The two walked the ramp majestically with all royal elegance and demeanor along with other 43 breeds, catching all the eyes in attendance on the day. M Saravanan, of Rajapalayam, a breeder of native dogs, said that the dog show has been an encouraging site as the turnout of more native breeds showed that people are coming forward to rear these dogs. Chippiparais were known for their hunting ability, and many had kept them in their houses for they could frighten off wild animals and snakes. Despite being courageous, the breed later turned out to be the least favoured by the pet lovers for their proclivity for not barking as much as its fellow breeds. 
 
 “They do not bark as much as other dogs but are excellent watch dogs. They are non-aggressive and that is one reason why people looking for one to guard houses put them off the list,’’ he said.
 
 As a lot of pet lovers are keen on owning breeds that are skilled watch dogs, social and easy to maintain, Canines Club’s shows have always come up with good answers, showcasing the best native breeds available for the purpose. “Many get cheated by fraudsters selling ordinary breeds as perfect watch dogs. A well-bred Rajapalayam pup costs between Rs 8,000 to Rs 12,000, or a little more than that,” he said.
 
 Among the participants at the show were Towering Great Danes, Beautify Huskies, Chua Chuas and Alsatians. Nickey, a Fox Terrier from Bangalore, grabbed the spotlight for some time as the owner groomed it a trimmer at the venue of the show. Milo, the Jack Russel Terrier from Trichy vied for the top spot, posing for photographs with his owner Praveen.
 
 Pongo, the Dalmatian, belonging to P Palanivel, had his bloodline running in Australia, but was brought from   to Madurai. “He has adapted well to the Madurai climate and is easy to keep,’’ said Palanivel. Madurai Kennel Club president   said that there were 360 breeds and eight groups of dogs. “People should pick a dog based on their requirement and the place where they live in. There are watchdogs, companion dogs, guide dogs and hunting dogs,’’ he said. 
 
 There are some specific breeds suitable for rearing in apartments with minimal space while others needed a large running area. “Our club wants to protect the breeds and ensure that people keep pets,’’ he said.
 
 
