MANDSAUR: Sub-inspector   let out a nervous shriek and then broke into giggles as she picked up a stone and threw it at a police SUV parked inPipliamandi thana on Saturday. 

 The first stone missed the vehicle; the second aimed at the windscreen met the target. The stone shattered on impact with the strong iron mesh protector installed a few days ago.
 
  Rajput's colleagues, including station in-charge  , followed her in hurling stones and bricks at the shield. Each time the stone bounced back. The cops applauded.
 
 The shield passed the test and is ready for whatever may be thrown at the cops during the 10-day farmer agitation and first anniversary of the   firing deaths.
  
  
 Anticipating violence during the farmers'  ' called from June 1 and saddled by funds crunch, Mandsaur police resorted to desi jugaad - a brainwave of Mandsaur SP Manoj Kumar Singh.
 
 The SUV was one of the first vehicles in the district to be modified locally to face stone-pelting mobs. It was sent to  , the most sensitive police station where five farmers were killed in police firing on June 6, 2017.
 
 The personnel of Pipliamandi police station -44 officers and constables - are elated that the new vehicle will keep them safe in case of violence. They have tried and tested the new one - first by pelting it with stones and then sitting inside while colleagues had a go at them.
 
 "The jugaad has certainly helped boost confidence among staff. The exercise helped them understand that their safety is ensured in a crisis, which they may have to face," Singar told TOI.
  
  
 
 Mandsaur police, who are at the epicenter of the farmers' protest, are facing a severe resource crunch. Since the protest is statewide, there was little hope for help from neighbouring districts.
 
 "We have two Vajra vehicles, the larger one equipped with tear gas guns is around 19 years old. It is a condemned vehicle. The smaller one can't carry many men," SP Singh said. "We have fortified 5-6 police vehicles with the help of local mechanics," he added.
 
 A new batch of teargas shells has arrived. Each cop was put through their paces with the shells and tear-gas gun. "We are now ready to face any untoward situation. The confidence is also backed by the tireless hours we put in to gain confidence of villagers, who have promised us that the protest will be peaceful," Singar said.
 
 The jugaad has certainly helped boost confidence among staff. The exercise helped them understand that their safety is ensured in a crisis
 
 
