MOHALI: Non-bailable arrest warrants issued by a local court last week against WWICS chairman Lt Col Baljit Singh   remained unacknowledged as he is hard to reach. A look-out notice against Sandhu was also issued by the cops on March 27 but till date Sandhu has failed to join the investigations. 

 Mohali police got the non-bailable arrest warrant from the court on March 31, after he was alleged a co-accused in the death case of a CTU employee,  .
 
 Sandhu was nominated in the FIR following the disclosure statement of the three accused arrested earlier in this connection. Guleria was found dead on March 25 after missing since March 13.
 
 Police said that the three arrested had confessed to have disposed Guleria's body after he was found dead in STP water pond of forest hill golf and country club resort owned by Sandhu.
 
 Back-to-back searches and raids conducted by the police team to arrest Sandhu have turned futile even after 11 days of issuance of notice.
 
 Tall claims made by Sandhu's lawyers have also fallen flat as he failed to join the investigations. Repeated phone calls were not attended by Sandhu's lawyer Raman Walai.
 
 Suddenly Sandhu's statement has become crucial in the case. SIT head IG   said, "As of now, we are taking it as a murder case. It will be conclusive once we record the statement of Lt Col Sandhu. The motive of crime is yet to be ascertained. This is established that the three accused employees of Sandhu did what they were told by him. In an audio recording, Sandhu can be heard directing one of his employees to go as per the plan. Searches are on to trace the whereabouts of Sandhu at present."
 
 As of now, the cops are yet to ascertain that how Abhishek entered the forest hill resort as at 11.50pm he was spotted by a CCTV camera roaming outside the resort. However, there is no evidence of him entering the resort. On March 25, the CIA arrested three employees allegedly dumping his body.
 
 The CIA arrested the accused, Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh and Tarsem Chand, while returning after allegedly dumping the body near Basol village forest area on Pinjore-Baddi road. During their interrogation, they confessed that they were given the task to dispose the body on behalf of Lt Col Sandhu.
 
 The cops also said that the accused confessed that they had fished out the body from an STP water tank inside forest hill golf and country club resort in  . After that police 'nominated' Sandhu in the FIR and issued him summons under section 160 of the CrPC for recording his statement. Sandhu failed to appear.
 
 On March 28, Punjab director general of police (DGP)   constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the death case of a Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) employee, Abhishek Guleria. The SIT is being headed by inspector general of police (IG) (crime) Shashi Prabha, assistant inspector general of police (AIG) and Mohali superintendent of police Kuldeep Singh Chahal.
 
 
