PATNA: Within eight months since Nitish Kumar dumped the   with RJD and   to form government with   and other NDA allies in the state on July 27 last year, the   chief minister seems uncomfortable after the recent incidents of   in several districts. 

 Though Nitish’s JD(U) felt a bit slighted after Prime Minister Narendra Modi refused to oblige the CM’s plea from the stage for central university status to Patna University at its centenary celebration function in October last year, his government, known for a secular image, strongly differed with alliance partner BJP over the reason behind the murder of a saffron party worker’s father in Darbhanga district.
 
 While Union minister Giriraj Singh and Bihar BJP president Nityanand Rai insisted that Ramchandra Yadav (65), father of a BJP worker, was hacked to death for naming a chowk near his village after PM Modi, senior JD(U) leaders and even state police claimed the murder was a fallout of a land dispute.
 
 But the strain between JD(U) and BJP became visible after Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey’s son Arijit Shashwat was named in the FIR lodged for inciting communal tension during a procession to celebrate the first day of new Vikram Samvat in the Muslim-dominated Nathnagar area of Bhagalpur on March 17. That Shashwat refused to surrender and his father called the FIR a ‘piece of garbage’ caused embarrassment to Nitish, who was accused by the opposition RJD and Congress of succumbing to BJP pressure and deviating from his claim of “good governance and zero tolerance on the law and order issues”. 
 
 JD(U) insiders say Nitish is not a person who can compromise with his secular image and continue for long with the current situation.
 
 While Nitish maintains that no person violating law will be spared, Choubey’s son was seen with a sword in the Ram Navami procession while the Bhagalpur police was looking for him with the warrant of arrest. It provided the opposition a stick to beat Nitish’s secular image. 
 
 Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav lost no time to attack the Nitish government inside and outside the assembly on the Shashwat issue. After facing a barrage of criticism from the opposition, police on Thursday arrested two BJP men for spreading violence at Rosera in Samastipur district. This didn’t go down well with the state BJP, which in its core committee meeting in Patna the same day gave a clear message that “no party worker should feel betrayed at the ground level”. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Bihar BJP in charge Bhupendra Yadav, state ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar, Mangal Pandey and State BJP chief Nityanand Rai were among the senior leaders who attended the meeting.
 
 
