Bureaucrat Medha Gadgil’s decision to proceed on leave to protest against the appointment of her junior D K Jain to lead the bureaucracy is being viewed as a setback for the new chief secretary and chief minister  . On several occasions, junior bureaucrats were appointed as chief secretary, but never has the seniormost bureaucrat proceeded on indefinite leave and taken on the head of state. In the 1983 batch, Gadgil is the most senior bureaucrat , followed by additional chief secretary (home) Sudhir Shrivastava and D K Jain. 

 Gadgil will retire in August 2019, Shrivastava in October 2018 and Jain in January 2019. Had Gadgil been appointed, she would have achieved the rare distinction of being the first woman chief secretary of the state. In Karnataka, the chief secretary and DGP are women. Ever since a debate on the appointment of the new chief secretary began, D K Jain and civic chief Ajoy Mehta were in the zone of consideration. The CM had told Shrivastava that he was not being considered, Gadgil has not been told anything. In her bureaucratic career, she was sidelined. She dared to take a bold step, since she is not looking for post-retirement rehabilitation.
 
 
 
 
 Fadnavis kept the post of chief information commissioner (CIC) vacant for a year to ensure appointment of ex-chief secretary Sumit Mullick (60). Former chief secretary Ratnakar Gaikwad’s five-year term as CIC came to end in May 2017 and since then the post was lying vacant. Many bureaucrats were vying for the plum assignment, but did not succeed. For Mullick, it will be a big challenge in view of the Gaikwad’s outstanding performance. A year before their retirement, senior bureaucrats launch a massive drive for new assignments. 
 
 It appears that all these new posts have been created for retired babus. A month before his appointment as chief secretary D K Jain was also exploring the possibility of his appointment as a member of the Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission. Former chief secretary Swadheen Kshatriya heads the Rig-hts to Services Commission, Anand Kulkarni heads the MERC and former additional chief secretary Giriraj heads the state finance commission. 
 
 
