MUMBAI: The  , meant to aid irrigation in three rain-starved districts of Vidarbha, has seen a staggering cost escalation from Rs 372 crore to Rs 18,495 crore over 34 years. An audit by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) for 2017 has sharply criticized the project, calling its flawed planning and execution as the major reason for the cost escalation. Slamming the state water resources department,   says it “has failed on all fronts to implement and deliver”.

 The report says though Rs 9,712 crore has been spent on the project till date, only 20% of its irrigation potential has been realized. The project is under probe from the anti-corruption bureau for irregularities and kickbacks to contractors, revealed by TOI’s expose in 2012. 
 
 The project was being implemented by the state’s   and monitored by the water resources department. It was declared a national project in 2009.
 
 CAG’s audit, which covers the period 2012-2017, points to inherent planning flaws. “Due to a faulty survey, there were overlaps in the irrigable command area which necessitated changes in the scope of the project. The works either could not start or were delayed after the issue of the work order due to non-acquisition of private/forest land,” the report said; incorrect estimations also caused problems. “The time overrun coupled with deficient planning and preparation led to a huge cost escalation.”
 
 Central funding has been held up and the project’s revised cost has not been approved, the CAG report says. “In the absence of a viable funding plan, the revised cost was not approved by the  . Due to irregularities in the execution of the project, there was a shortfall in the release of funds form the central government.”
 
 The project has also seen “undue benefits to contractors” owing to violations of contract conditions and manual provisions. Also, there has been minimal departmental supervision, resulting in substandard work, CAG says. For instance, owing to substandard lining work along the entire length of the left bank canal, the cement-concrete placed developed cracks within two years.
 
 Two works pertaining to the construction of right bank canal distributaries were awarded to the same contractors for almost Rs 29 crore although they had executed defective and substandard work on the lining of the left bank canal, CAG says.
 
 Also, the rehabilitation of project-affected people (PAP) was delayed as the required amenities were either not created or were incomplete. In some cases, there was double payment of compensation of about Rs 1.2 crore, burdening the exchequer, CAG says.
 
 By 2017, the project had created an irrigable area of only 50,316 hectares of the targeted 2.5 lakh hectares with irrigation potential. Again, of the potential created, only 37,733 hectares was utilized.
 
 The project was meant to be completed in 2014, but the deadline was revised to 2020. “Delays in submission and finalization of the funding plan to the central government may hamper the project’s progress,” CAG says.
 
 
