Chennai: After eight years of working in stealth mode, Sridhar Vembu, founder, Zoho on Thursday announced his investment in healthcare startup vTitan. Headquartered in Chennai, the startup offers medical devices, the first being their patented Accuflow SP-550 and Accuflow IBP-550 syringe infusion pumps for critical care medication administration. The pumps are powered by indigenously developed and patented closed-loop motion control technology. Founded in 2010 by Periyakulam Kasthuri, the startup has received investments of under $10 million from Vembu to date. Syringe infusion pumps are used for critical care of patients in hospital and home environments for accurate and safe infusion of medication. For administration of drugs in a precise and continuous manner, the infusion pumps use sensors and other technologies. The patented technology allows them to monitor and administer drugs down to fractions of a second. Over 50 hospitals in Chennai have tested the product as the startup awaits EU certification.  The Accuflow SP-550 which works on electricity is priced at Rs 35,000 while the Accuflow IBP-550 includes an integrated battery pack for portability and is priced at Rs 45,000. “This is a dream that I saw over 10 years back. It is a blessing for us to fund a startup and entrepreneur who is working towards making this dream come true,” said Vembu.  “Today, 80% of medical devices used in India are imported. We are attempting to build devices in India, using local talent and technology. The parameters of privacy, security and quality are very high in healthcare. We have had several iterations of the product to ensure it is not a ‘me too’ offering,” said Kasthuri. With about 90% of employees focusing on R&D, vTitan team is building other critical care medical devices too including voice and touch-enabled devices for the US market. The company has teamed-up with doctors who provide guidance to ensure that the design meets the current requirements and future needs.  “We have taken special care to ensure every component is of high quality considering various factors including noise, temperature, wear and tear among others,” Kasthuri said. The company is targeting the India market first after which they will look at other countries in Africa and Eastern Europe.