AHMEDABAD/PALANPUR: Farmers and traders in Banaskantha are expecting a bumper potato crop. Though the acreage sown increased by 17%, output is expected to rise by 15% from last year.

 In   in 2017, potato production was 17.10 lakh metric tonnes (MT), making up nine per cent of the country’s output. If market sources are to be believed, this figure will cross 19 lakh MT this year. “After groundnut, the government will face a huge task to handle potato farmer, keeping in mind that in 2017 farmers were forced to dump potatoes in the streets, because they were getting meagre prices,” an officer at APMC Deesa said.
 
 Fearing that farmers will not get remunerative prices this year too, Deesa APMC chairman   wrote to the state government and met the new agriculture minister,  . 
 
 “With the area sown increasing we are expecting a bumper crop this year too. I have asked the state government to work out an action plan to bail out farmers who may not get proper prices for their produce. I even met Faldu.” Desai said that the new crop has started trickling in but will be in full flow in 15 days.
 
 The price of new potatoes was around Rs 6 a kg at Deesa market, while old potatoes, which had been kept in cold storage is Rs 2 a kg. Satish Mali, the owner of a cold storage in Banaskantha, said the new crop is while there is still stock in cold storage. He said he still has 200 tons of old potatoes and the farmers or traders are not answering his the calls. “We pay Rs 100 as loan for a 50kg bag to farmers, to meet packing, labour and transportation expenses. When the produce is sold the loan is recovered along with rent. A farmer incurs a cost of Rs 5 per kg to put potatoes in cold storage. Presently, they can’t even recoup their input costs, so they don’t turn up to claim their stored stock. We are just getting Rs 1.5 per kg against the input cost of Rs 5 at the moment.”
 
 Kalubhai Ratnabhai, a farmer, says, “Last year I got Rs 4 per kg and was expecting the price to rise further. I didn’t sell my crop and am now not even getting a price that will match my storage cost, leave aside other input costs. If potatoes are in cold storage after October, that person is required to pay Rs 2.6 per kg.” He further said that he opted to sow grow potatoes this year too, as it is cheaper, in terms of input cost, than others crops.
 
 Mavjibhai Patel, a trader from Deesa, said he had stored about 5,000 50-kg bags and in the last month he only got an average of Rs 3 per kg. He said that this was lower than what he paid the farmers. 
 
 
