KOLKATA: A day after a Madhyamik candidate and a CBSE examinee killed themselves in their respective Howrah homes after their parents rebuked them for chatting on social media just days before their board exams started, a Class V student was found hanging from the ceiling fan at her   home on Saturday night. Hours before, her parents rebuked him for not giving attention to her studies.

 The student has been identified as  . The parents had gone out to see a doctor. They found the 10-year-old dead when they returned home. Police suspect it to be a case of suicide.
 
  
  
 
 This is not an isolated case of a student taking a step as extreme as suicide after being reprimanded. The city has seen several such cases of students committing suicide related to study pressure. Psychologists and psychiatrists feel that parents should be supportive instead of being pushy.
 
 “Because of the rapid transition in economic and social structure, parents have sky-high expectations from their children. This makes them become pushy when they are required to hold hands and help their children,” said Dr Sabyasachi  , consultant psychiatrist.
 
 Mitra said in India a student commits suicide every hour — eastern and southern part of the country being the most vulnerable. The high aspiration of the parents percolates down to the children as young as 10 years who are still ignorant about the nitty-gritty of the economical and social transition. Adding to it is the gap between tolerance and frustration that has become very thin.
 
 “Removal of reward is one way of dealing with a child when he’s not complying with the parents’ instructions, instead of rebuking or behaving harshly with them. And if the parents do not know how to deal with such child they should seek professional help,” said Dr Mitra.
 
 Parents cited pressure to do well in academics as the trigger for them to be tough with kids. “I have to talk tough to my son at times. But Ialways make it a point to explain it to him why I scold him. I also pamper him when he plays,” said  , mother of a Class VII student.
 
