When   returned to the fiction genre after five years as the protagonist on the show ' ', she had pinned great hopes on it. However, her journey has been cut short in just three months. With the show going in for a short time-leap, the production house has roped in   as the new Siddhi, the character originally played by Neha.

 However, Neha claims that she was aware of the impending twist in the story. “I knew that I’ll be exiting the show, but I didn’t know when. Well, it has happened now, and I am not disappointed. I am just sad that I won’t be on the show anymore, as I have grown attached to the character and the unit; I will miss them. The show has been pacy and that’s probably why the new heroine has been introduced so soon,” she says. 
  
 Ask her if it was a wise decision to take up a show, which she had to exit mid-way and she replies, “This show came my way when I was sitting at home, waiting for good work. I was out of sight for long and so, I grabbed this opportunity. I will now take up a show in which my track will run till the end.”
 
 There were rumours that Neha has been replaced because the viewers failed to connect with her. Reacting to the speculations, the actress tells us, “The ratings of the show went up last week. If the audience were not able to connect with me, how did the ratings improve? I don’t know where these rumours are coming from. Anyway, I wish the new heroine all the best and hope that the show does even better.”
 
 Farnaz, who was last seen on the TV show, ' ', says, “I have to take the same character forward, but with a different perspective. It’s a huge responsibility for me as this happens to be the fourth show on which I am taking the same character forward. I have joined all my shows mid-way. Stepping into a child artiste’s shoes is as challenging as taking over from a grown-up actor, as the characters are already established.” Ask her if she will play the part her way or give us a glimpse of the original Siddhi and she answers, “I have to keep Siddhi’s journey in mind in whatever I do. While I am at the liberty to add nuances, I can’t play it solely according to my imagination.” 
 
