NAGPUR: The spontaneous Dalit   against what the community felt was the dilution of   (Prevention of Atrocities) Act by an apex court order kept cops on constant alert in the city. The violence, also witnessed in many states, was largely restricted to the northern parts of the city.

 Three city buses, a vehicle owned by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation and a few cars parked on the road were damaged as the protesters indulged in stone-pelting. Authorities said the bus operators faced a loss of Rs2.40 lakh. Police are yet to arrest anyone.
 
 After a relatively calm morning, the afternoon   with the number of protesters increasing and catching the cops on the wrong foot. 
 
 The New Delhi-bound Tamil Nadu Express and a goods train were stopped on the tracks by the agitators who also resorted to pelting stones at them. The express train was brought to a halt near Kamptee Road gurdwara and its cabin glass shattered.
 
 City police chief K Venkatesham said the damages were kept to a minimum due to quick intervention. “Action will be taken against those who broke the law and resorted to arson,” he said. 
 
 He added that they did not “allow the situation to go out of hand”. “We pressed into action two SRPF platoons in the affected areas,” said Venkatesham.
 
 The police had several anxious moments in the second half of the day. It is learnt they chose to exercise restraint rather than go all out against the protesters several of whom had their faces covered so their images would not be captured on CCTVs. Seeing there were more cops at Indora Chowk and RBI Square, the   places. 
 
 Sitabuldi police faced the toughest challenge when Bhante Surai Sasai, well-known Buddhist monk, joined the agitation and squatted at RBI Square along with his followers for around three hours. Earlier, he held a meeting with district collector Sachin Kurve. Cops had to cajole the monk and others to refrain from blocking the arterial roads.
 
 The response in other Dalit settlements like Rameshwari, Manewada, Trisharan Chowk etc was almost nil. The protesters forcibly shut shops in Pachpaoli and Jaripatka — between Kadbi Chowk and Automotive Chowk — and suspend their businesses. Some shops near Gaddigodam suffered losses as protesters went berserk pelting stones at the establishments as well as on private vehicles.
 
 Sadar police, who had managed to keep nearly 3,000 protesters at bay at Samvidhan Chowk, had to rush to Gaddigodam to control the situation. It nearly went out of hand as the angry shopkeepers charged at the protesters.
 
 The protesters also set a city bus on fire near Indora T-point, just a few metres from a posse of police and an SRPF platoon. After driving away nearly 300 people, the cops tried to douse the flames.
 
 As tensions began escalating at Indora Square with the number of protesters swelling post-noon, the cops were helpless as the agitators pelted stones on a Ramtek-bound Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus. There was just an hour’s gap between the two bus incidents.
 
 At Indora Square, the protesters burnt posters displaying photos of BJP politicians and also forced a petrol pump to shut down by pelting stones that left a woman injured. Stones were also hurled at the cops in the evening. Tyre burning incidents were reported from Medical College Square, Indora Square and  .
 
 The only stray incident in south Nagpur was the stone-pelting on Sitabuldi-Warad city bus near Chandan Nagar. The agitators came on bikes with their faces covered and fled soon.
 
 Till the time of going to the press, Pachpaoli, Sadar, Jaripatka, Imambada and Sitabuldi police stations were in the process of registering offences against the arsonists and protesters.
 
 
