 Anand, who became popular with her TV show ' ', is back with another show ' '. In the capital for the show's promotion, the actress talked about the first time she visited Delhi, her crazy partying in Noida, and more.
 
 
 Anjali says, “I was a good dancer, and was passionate about it right from my school days. Once, a family friend, who is a choreographer, needed someone to take up a wedding choreography assignment in Delhi. I was just 16 then, but I took up the project. I came all the way from Mumbai to teach dance to the bride. This was my first and the most memorable visit to Delhi.”
 
  
  Beauty queen!
 
 
 Recalling her Noida memories, she says, “When I would visit Delhi for wedding assignments, all the bachelor parties would be organised in huge bungalows in Noida. I think some of the best parties are organised in Noida. We used to go crazy partying the night away. Also, the roads in Noida are very smooth. Mumbai mein aise roads nahi milte. Compared to Delhi, I find Noida quieter and more organized. I find Delhi more chaotic.”
 She adds, “I have been to the markets in Noida and have tried different delicacies at many food joints here. Noida mein chicken dishes ka alag hi taste hota hai. It is just amazing.”
 Anjali has shopped in Delhi and Noida malls and has also done street shopping. “I love GK’s M-Block market. Ek baar bahut saari shopping ki thi wahan se. I love street shopping. Mall shopping toh kahin bhi ho sakti hai, but jo street shopping wali feel hai, woh malls mein nahi milti.”
 
 
 The 25-year-old actress tells us that playing the role of a mother so early in her career was not an easy choice. “Many people were not happy with me playing the role of a mother in my second show. Some of them even told me that it will be difficult for the audience to relate to the character. But I didn’t pay heed and carried on with my work. Fortunately, people are liking my new avatar as I am getting a good response from my fans.”
 She adds, “We should stop typecasting. A lot of actors avoid experimenting and taking up different roles because they are being typecast. They avoid taking risks and get stuck with similar kinds of role for life.”
 
 Anjali plays a pampered, bossy   girl in the show, but she says she’s not like that in real life. “I am totally opposite to my character in the show. I never raise my voice. So, whenever I shout at someone in the show, meri awaaz baith jati hai. Sometimes, even my fingers shake while scolding someone on the show!”
 
  
  
 
 
 Though Anjali has visited Delhi a lot of times but she says that the city’s air doesn’t suit her. “Delhi mein jab aati hun mujhe allergy ho jati hai. Last time, my lips got swollen and once I had got rashes all over my body. The other time, I got pimples on my face. I think there’s something in Delhi’s air,” she says. 
 Talking about the fashion sense of people here, she says, “Women are so well dressed here. I am so jealous that they can wear coats and boots during winters. Mumbai mein toh hum sweater bhi nahi pehen sakte.”
 
 Dance is close to Anjali’s heart and the actress says that she would want to take part in a dance reality show to prove to the world that a plus-size girl can also dance. “I wouldn’t mind doing a dance reality show, I love dancing and I really miss it. In fact, it will be a good platform to show people that even a plus-size girl can dance. Also, I love watching Bigg Boss, but I won’t like to participate in it. I am a shaant person. I don’t think I will be able to adjust with strangers,” she says.
 
 
 The actress has lost a lot of weight after Dhai Kilo Prem, and says that trekking helped her lose weight. “I gained weight for 'Dhai Kilo.' I used to eat a lot and sleep. I am a very active person otherwise. After the show went off air, I went to   for trekking. I love doing outdoor activities.   ke saare peaks bhi maine climb kiye hain!” 
 
 
