KOLKATA : A BPO employee riding her three-month-old scooter with a learner’s licence and earphones plugged in died when she was hit by a private bus from behind while she was changing lanes on a   road near Sector V on Thursday morning.

 Puja Pal, a resident of  , was on her way to office at EP-GP block in Sector Vwhen she met with the accident. Witnesses said the woman was riding along the left lane of the Salt Lake Bypass when she suddenly changed the lane to make a Uturn from a cut a little ahead of   to take the road towards Sector V. The twowheeler was hit by a New Town-bound bus of Kadamtala–New Town route. This very place has witnessed at least three accidents in the last few months.
 
  
 The 22-year-old girl did not even had the helmet strapped. The headgear came off her head during the collision as she fell head first on the concrete road. She was rushed to Bidhannagar subdivisional hospital in Salt Lake where she was declared dead on arrival.
 
 “Since the woman was off balance while taking the U-turn, she was flung off the vehicle and fell on the road. Her helmet also came off and her head rammed against the concrete road,” said an officer at Electronic Complex police station in Sector V.
 
 Pal had learnt riding a scooter barely six months ago and had bought the twowheeler in January. “She had a learner’s licence. She would have got her licence within the next few days. She was extremely fond of riding and was in love with the new two-wheeler. No matter how much we asked her to not to take it to office, she would not listen as it saved a lot of commuting time for her,” said her cousin sister at the hospital.
 
 According to the rule, a person riding with a learner’s licence has to have a person with a proper licence riding pillion with him/her. The person riding pillion is supposed to guide the new and inexperienced rider so that he/she doesn’t make any error in judgement, as happened on Thursday morning.
 
 “With earphones on — be it for listening music or speaking over phone — people lose the sense of balance and judgement while on the move. Moreover, if she had her helmet properly strapped, the headgear would have taken the first impact and she may have been saved. But in her case, it came off at the first impact and when she fell on the ground, she had no helmet on her head,” said the officer.
 
 
