  : The   of Bombay at Goa, on Friday, reserved its order on the public interest litigation (PIL) filed seeking a declaration that all ore lying outside   lease areas and ore transported from March 16 belongs to the state. 

 Counsels appearing for mining companies and traders argued that royalty was paid on the ore prior to February this year and that they should be permitted to transport and load the ore onto barges. 
 
 Advocate Subodh Kantak, who appeared for one of the mining companies, argued that distinction could not be made between ore lying at stockyards and at jetties and that this should be permitted to be lifted and exported.
 
 Kantak told the court that the Supreme Court order stopped mining operations not because it was carried out illegally between 2007 and 2018, but because the state government didn't follow proper procedure when it renewed leases. 
 
 He also stated that illegalities during this period were committed by fly-by-night operators as a result of which other companies who were following the law, suffered.
 
 In her rejoinder advocate Norma Alvares representing Goa Foundation urged the high court to direct the government to assume responsibility for the safety of mines with the monsoons approaching. 
 
 Reacting to advocate general Dattaprasad Lawande's argument that the government doesn't have the necessary equipment to carry out such activities and that mining companies could very well carry these out, Alvares said that even if the government asks mining companies to carry out the work, it has to be supervised by the government.
 
 Alvares argued that it was not true that the February SC judgement didn't state that mining carried out after 2007 was illegal. She said that this judgement was a continuation of and flows from the SC 2012 judgement that declared all mining activities illegal.
 
 Alvares in her rejoinder alleged that the AG's opinion was the deciding factor to continue mining-related activities including transport of ore. 
 
 "The government ought to have sought clarifications from the Supreme Court on the continuance of mining activity beyond March 15, 2018," she said.
 
 
