Chennai: While sections of the society read stories or listen to pep talks to get motivated, a section of people start every month buying goodies for oneself. 

 Meet,   gifts herself goodies from various online platforms with motivational notes to herself. If you think it's odd, please be informed that she is not alone. More people are logging onto gifting sites to buy things — for themselves. 
 
 At gifting firm IGP, self-gifts used to constitute 5% of their sales a few years back. Now, it is 20%. Seeing the uptick in buyers taking to handmade products to gift themselves,   is now popularising it as a separate category. “Today, consumers do not mind spending on themselves. We see such consumers spend 1.5X time on the website as compared to regular gifters. They also spend a lot more when they are buying for themselves” said Tarun Joshi, CEO, IGP. 
 
 BigSmall.in, a unique gifting platform has seen self gifting rise from 10% last year to 25% of total orders this year. From buying Secret Santa gifts for themselves to birthday gifts or a first salary indulgence, consumers buy across categories on BigSmall.in. They also use the handwritten card option to write notes to themselves. “From the notes and our interactions with customers, we understand that they self-gift as a token of motivation. Sometimes, it’s a means of de-stressing themselves,” said Aman Hans, cofounder, BigSmall.in. When Bushra Ismail joined French classes last month, she decided to gift herself some quirky stationery from aliciasouza.com, an online store for gifts. “I was embarking on something new and wanted something special to remember it by,” said Ismail.
 
 And it’s not just gifts that people are buying for themselves but gift cards too. Qwikcilver’s platform Woohoo has seen a 150% growth in self gifting from last year. From self gifters constituting 20% of their registered base last year, they now constitute close to 50%.
 
 From spa sessions to a fine dine experience or even a local rock show, users are looking to indulge in themselves when they buy gifts on Woohoo. Pratap adds that self-gifts are not generally occassion driven but impulsive, off the cuff purchases.
 
 The self-gifting trend has not gone amiss with brand owners, he adds. “Today, brands are seeking to be seen as giftable brands. Like a Titan watch is synonymous with a gift, brands want to be seen as giftable. Often, they give special discounts or benefits so users if a user buys a gift card,” said Pratap TP,   and director, Qwikcilver. 
 
 
