THANE: A Swiss national of Indian origin has been arrested for allegedly stealing at the residences of his close relatives in Thane and Hyderabad.

 Police inspector (crime)   said that the accused, Abhishek Mintri (41), who is from Interlaken in  , was stealing to buy expensive gifts for his Vietnamese girlfriend. 
 
 The officer said that Mintri used to stay at the homes of his two uncles while most of the family was out of town, steal jewellery from their residences and later sell it in a jewellery market in Kolkata.
 
 The officer said that on March 30 this year, he visited his uncle’s house at Kavesar in Thane when his cousin was at home while his uncle and aunt were in Jaipur. The next day he hurriedly rushed out of the house, saying he was on his way to Kolkata, Kulkarni told TOI.
 
 Later, when his uncle and aunt returned home, they found the jewellery missing, but were still unsure of Mintri’shand in the theft, their complaint states.
 
 Mintri ran out of luck on May 21 when the complainant got a call from another uncle at Hyderabad who alleged that Mintri had, in their absence, broken open the door of the house and “stolen jewellery” from the house. They also said that during Diwali last year, he was caught red-handed while stealing diamond jewellery, said Kulkarni.
 
 The complainant also stated that the accused had sent him a Whatsapp message of apology on May 22 this year, said the officer. The recent theft at Thane was of the value of Rs 8.72 lakh, the police said, adding that it included several ornaments.
 
 The police who arrested Mintri recently recovered 35 tolas of gold which he had sold in West Bengal, the police said.
 
 According to the police, the accused used to frequent   to meet his girlfriend and splurged money on her. He used to indulge in stealing in India at the residence of his relatives to meet his expenses.
 
 “His family was into the business of manufacturing mementos of wristwatches in Switzerland. In 2013 and 2014 he was arrested in Dubai,” Kulkarni said.
 
 Mintri was nabbed in Kandivili when the police tracked his mobile location. A case has been registered at   police station.
 
 
