CHANDIGARH: For the first time, two studies about a clinical trial at the PGIMER, Chandigarh have proved that patients with  , whose only hope for a cure was a liver transplant, can now successfully get treated by stem cell therapy.

 The studies, published in high impact international journals last month, confirmed the stem cells were regenerated from the patients’ own bodies and these helped in liver regeneration, thereby enabling a delay in liver transplant.
 
 The incidence of end stage liver diseases in   is estimated to be the highest in the country due to high number of injectable drug users in the state. A liver transplant costs Rs 15 lakh in a public hospital which can be avoided with this therapy that costs about Rs 10,000 —some 150 times lesser. “The cost of stem cell therapy is about Rs 10,000 for multiple courses and Rs 3,000 for single course,” according to the doctors in PGIMER.
 
 Impressed by the results of the initial trial, the Centre now wants the sample size of the next trial to be increased. “We have been given Rs 84 lakhs by the Government of India to expand the sample size and work on the therapy,” said Dr Virendra Singh of the PGIMER.
 
 In 2016, an AIIMS study had claimed that nearly 2.3 lakh youth in Punjab were addicted to opioids and of this number, one-third were injectable users.
 
 “We have been working on this for the past nine years. Stem cell therapy has been found to be useful in patients with alcoholic hepatitis and cirrhosis. As there is limited availability of donors and the cost of the transplant is too high, this therapy has been beneficial for enhancing the quality of life,” said Dr Singh, the main author of the study, who is from PGIMER’s department of hepatology.
 
 The therapy worked for cirrhosis or alcoholic hepatitis patients where the rate of mortality is high. “These patients cannot survive more than 6 months or a year without a transplant,” said Dr Singh.
 
 In cirrhosis or alcoholic hepatitis, liver is damaged. “We stimulated the bone marrow by an injection called Granulocyte Colony Stimulating Factor (GCSF), which produced new cells called hematopoietic stem cells. Total blood count increases many fold and some of these cells home into liver and take function of liver cells and result in liver regeneration,” said the author.
 
 The study on end stage cirrhosis has been published in the international journals, Hepatology and on alcoholic hepatitis in Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology.
 
 In one of the studies, 65 patients suffering from decompensated (end stage) cirrhosis were enrolled and 23 of these were given standard medical therapy (SMT) plus Granulocyte-Colony Stimulating Factor (G-CSF) for three months plus growth hormone daily. Twenty-one patients were given SMT and G-CSF and the remaining 21 were given SMT alone. A year’s review found that the G-CSF groups had improvement in nutrition, and complications caused by cirrhosis were reduced.
 
