Madurai: Madurai Corporation’s move to alter its own disclosure of property tax defaulters within its limits has drawn strong reactions from the public. Many complained that the corporation harassed the common man who paved the way for its infrastructure development by paying taxes while the big defaulters enjoyed the benefits at the expense of the public. The corporation had voluntarily disclosed a list of 100 biggest property tax defaulters in its limits on December 15 last year which was topped by many public sector offices and private educational institutions. However, the Madurai bench of the Madras high court ordered on Friday afternoon that action be taken against the big tax evaders and their premises sealed if they did not pay up. Curiously enough, the corporation changed the list in the evening removing the names of the major defaulters.  Corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar claimed that the December 15 list was an automated one and that government offices could not be termed defaulters and that many of the institutes which figured on it had approached the court with regard to the tax issues. Hence they were removed from the list. Meanwhile, the corporation started making announcements on the public address system in many parts of the city on Saturday asking the residents to pay their taxes on time.”I have the printout of the previous list and will ask the people who want me to pay if the big giants have done so,’’ said T Pandiarajan, a tax payer from Simmakkal. M Ganeshan, a former CPM councilor, says that unlike other corporations which had many other sources of revenue, Madurai Corporation depends solely on property tax for its revenue. But, while the common man is made to pay up on time, many of the bigger institutes and commercial complexes continue to evade taxes with the help of some people in the corporation.  “Whenever they are asked to pay, they go to court on the directions of people within the corporation and continue to evade payment for many years using the legal aspects as a reason,’’ he said. RTI activist K Hakkim debunked the corporation’s claims as unacceptable. “The list has been there for over a month for all to see. Wouldn’t the big defaulters, especially private institutes which figured on the list have taken the corporation to court for defamation had their names been released? I think there is something fishy in the list getting altered,’’ he said. He added that he had checked the site again and nobody in the previous list had paid their dues.