NEW DELHI: The Jawaharlal Nehru University is set to host its   after an interval of  . The university’s one and only such event — in 1972 — is best known for the controversy it stirred due to a “radical speech” given by the then students’ union president, V C  . 

 The union had earlier refused to allow any “outsider” from giving a speech on the campus, and had relented only when actor  , known for his leaning towards the Left, was invited. 
 
 S C Garkoti,   rector-II, on Monday said the latest plan to revive the convocation was an effort towards “celebrating the positive aspects of the university”. He told TOI: “We will distribute awards to PhD students and send them off in a dignified manner.” The date for the event is yet to be finalised, but it is likely to take place in the last week of February. “We want to encourage students to have a proper send-off and not submit their PhD theses and disappear,” Garkoti said.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 The university is yet to decide on who will give the convocation address. “Usually, it’s the visitor of the university — which, in our case, is the President of India. But if he’s not available, we will look for another senior personality,” he said.
 
 Suneet Chopra, founding member of SFI at JNU, recalled the 1972 event: “Our plan was to launch a two-pronged attack on the administration. Initially, we had planned to oppose any outsider from speaking at the event. It was later when they suggested Sahni’s name that we agreed, as we had started a film festival on the campus that year and shown his films.” 
 
 Koshy’s speech, Chopra said, was vetted by the administration. “But we changed it (the speech) at night and decided to applaud specific portions. The purpose was to get media attention,” he said.
 
 Kamal Mitra Chenoy, professor of JNU’s Centre for Comparative Politics and Political Theory, was also a student back then. He said Koshy’s speech wasn’t controversial, “but for the media, words like calling the state a bourgeois landlord and criticising the capitalist class at a convocation was something new ”.
 
 Indeed, it led to an outcry, prompting JNU to scrap the convocation programme itself — until now. 
 
 Chenoy also claimed that Sahni was “quite happy with (Koshy’s) speech.” During his own speech, Sahni questioned students’ “slavish mentality” even as he criticised “the same system of education that was designed by Macaulay and Co to breed clerks and mental slaves”. Sahni spoke of how a “large majority of students in universities are losing faith in the system of education”. The speech was considered by many, including Chenoy, to be “radical” for a convocation.
 
 Interestingly, Koshy no longer stays in India. “He has been out of India for years and currently lives in New York,” Chenoy said.
 
