CHANDIGARH: At a time when   aspirants are making a beeline for enrolling themselves in popular coaching centres and spending a hefty sum in the exercise, some are taking the leap to prepare on their own and even succeeding.

 Vikramaditya Singh Malik, who secured 48th rank in the civil services exam, preferred self-study over coaching while preparing for the exam.
 
 Malik took coaching for a month. However, he decided to study on his own as he felt it would benefit him more. After he left coaching, he prepared self-notes and studied at home. His hard work paid off and he cracked the exam. Like Malik, there are many who are opting for for self-study.
 
 Interestingly, the trend of online tutorials for UPSC preparation is also catching up.
 
 Sakshi Verma, an IPS officer currently posted in  , had cleared her UPSC exam in 2014 by self-studying. She believes though there is no harm in taking coaching, self-studying gives you a more focused approach. “When you indulge in self-studying, you are completely able to focus on your study material and not go on adding more to it. Making your own notes is the best way to prepare. This way, you are able to evaluate yourself better. Moreover, you can save yourself from unnecessary peer pressure that you experience in coaching centres,” adds Verma.
 
 Raj Malhotra, a Chandigarh-based mentor for UPSC, says that people initially take coaching and once they know the pattern and get that orientation, they choose to study on their own.
 
 Coaching can beneficial in placing you in the right direction, but at the end of the day it is only self-study which can get closer to success, says Malik, adding that now the nature of the paper is such that you need to apply your mind and for that to work, you have to read a lot. This is possible only through self-study.
 
 “An important aspect of taking coaching classes is selective studying. This is difficult in case of self-studying. Coaching can be very helpful in scoring well in UPSC exams as there is always a time constraint involved. Self-study can take a lot of time to prepare. Else it is the best form of preparation,” says Jagpal Singh Dhanoa, IPS. He cleared his exam in 2016.
 
 Among other options available for UPSC preparation are online tutorials and many have benefited from the same.
 
 “For those who find the conventional UPSC coaching too expensive, these online tutorials are very helpful. Earlier, people would only opt to move to New Delhi in the search of best quality coaching institutes. Now, through these online tutorials, people can get the benefit of coaching while sitting in their rooms. Also, a lot of online tutorials are available free of cost,” says Malik.
 
 
