NEW DELHI: Mystery surrounds the death of a six-year-old girl on Friday, who, the treating hospital alleged, died due to infection from internal injuries she suffered after being sexually assaulted five days ago in Ranhola, west Delhi. Police, however, said the autopsy had not revealed bodily injuries on the girl.

 While Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital in west Delhi, where the autopsy was performed on Friday, refused to give any details, Delhi Police quoted the medical team to say that the girl’s body exhibited no injuries.
 
 “The girl died due to severe infection. So far, neither family members nor medical reports have suggested any sexual assault,” said MN Tiwari, DCP (Outer) on Friday afternoon. “However, we are awaiting a formal post-mortem report to take a final call on the issue.” He added that the girl’s family had told a police team that they would file an FIR only after the post-mortem report.
 
 Contradicting this, the girl’s father said he would file an FIR alleging   based on the statement issued by Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, which categorically said that she had suffered injuries in her private parts. “The child was brought to the paediatric emergency of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on February 1, 2018 at 3.57pm. She was bleeding with injuries to the private parts. The child was in decompensated septic shock with respiratory failure and multi-organ dysfunction,” the hospital statement said.
 
 The statement added that upon detailed examination, the doctors suspected sexual assault and an MLC report was lodged with the police. “In spite of the best efforts of doctors, the child expired at 12.45am on February 2, 2018. The body has been sent for postmortem,” the hospital said.
 
 The father told TOI that when he dropped his daughter in school on Monday, she showed no signs of distress. “I was shocked to get a call from the class teacher a couple of hours later that my daughter was complaining of excessive pain in her thighs,” he said. The family initially thought that the girl was suffering after having practised for a long time for a dance performance she was scheduled to give.
 
 Over the next two days, when the child continued to write in pain, the   took her to private hospitals, but none could pinpoint the problem and only prescribed painkillers. The father claimed that the medication did little to ease the pain his daughter was going through. “It is only when we took her to Ganga Ram Hospital that the doctors informed us about the injuries on her private parts,” the father said amid tears.
 
 Later on Friday, Swati Jai Hind, chairperson of the Delhi Commission for Women, tweeted: “Met the doctors at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. 6 year old's medical reports reveal recto vaginal fistula which means tear in anal & vaginal region. Happens due 2 sexual assault. She appears to have died due 2 an infection from same. Police should immediately arrest perpetrator. Devastating! (sic)”
 
  
  
 
 Another tweet in Hindi read: “She received severe internal injuries and died of infection. Is somebody listening? Does anybody get affected? Will there not be strict action against the rapists?”
 
 
