NEW DELHI: The notification of   for mixed land use — a move that will legalise commercial activities on these stretches and save hundreds of traders from the sealing drive — is likely to be delayed further. 

 A survey on these roads was conducted way back in 2007, but none of the three corporations have so far verified the reports, which run into hundreds of pages. As these records have not been digitised, not all of them are traceable. In fact, east corporation has not managed to find any of the survey records so far. SDMC, on the other hand, has traced records of only two of the four zones; north corporation, too, has managed to find records of only two of the six zones.
 
 The Delhi government could not notify these roads unless the commissioners of the three corporations certified the survey, sources said. And unless these roads are notified, commercial establishments there will continue to face the threat of sealing. 
 
 On Wednesday, a special committee of the  , which discussed the issue with the three commissioners, gave them two working days to authenticate the records. The committee, chaired by AAP MLA Bhavna Gaur, fixed the next meeting for Monday. AAP MLA  , who is also a member of the committee, said: “If they (the commissioners) don’t present the authentication report by Monday, the committee will consider recommending action against them.”
 
 When the commissioners told the committee they were trying to locate the records, some members expressed surprise that the civic bodies had to “trace” records kept in “their custody”. The “hesitation” among the corporations to authenticate survey reports prepared by their own officials also came into in question.
 
 EDMC commissioner   said going through the reports would take time. Government officials said the survey reports could provide them useful information on parking facilities available in the city as also open spaces in residential areas that have been gradually commercialised and are now ready for being declared as mixed land use areas.
 
 Bharadwaj said: “After the commissioners come up with the reports, these will be submitted to the Supreme Court by the government before the notification is issued.” The corporations, however, maintained before the committee that none of the roads where the sealing activity was on came in this category. The leader of opposition in the assembly,  , had earlier claimed that the AAP government’s failure to notify the roads was responsible for the sealing action.
 
 Meanwhile, commenting on the possibility of waiving off conversion charges, the commissioners said it was for the Delhi Development Authority to decide on any such move. Emerging from the meeting, Bharadwaj claimed that the commissioners had told the panel that around Rs 3,000 crore was collected as conversion charges since 2006 and over 85% of the funds were diverted. This, he alleged, was in violation of norms.
 
