AMARAVATI: The Sri   temple atop Indrakeeladri in Vijayawada is set to get an eco-park, which will help attract more tourists to the place.

 In what could be a major boost to tourism, the AP forest department is readying a blueprint to turn 10 popular temples into ecotourism hubs. Taking the development planned at historical pilgrim centre of Kotappakonda in   as a model, eco-parks will be set up around these temples.
 
 A colourful butterfly and deer park was developed at Kotappakonda, thanks to interest shown by assembly speaker Dr Kodela Sivaprasada Rao. A play area for children and recreation centre for tourists was also set up atop the hill. The state government also approved a ropeway project for Kotappakonda at the insistence of Rao. 
 
 Expressing joy at the way Kotappakonda was developed, chief minister  , during a recent visit to the hill shrine, directed the forest department to undertake similar development at other temple premises. 
 
 The other temples marked for the project by the forest department are Sri Satyanarayana Swamy Temple of Annavaram (East Godavari), Sri Venkateswara Swamy temple of Dwaraka Tirumala (West Godavari), Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple of Mangalagiri (Guntur), Sri Mallikharjuna Swamy temple of Srisailam (Kurnool), Sri Mahanandeeswara Swamy temple of Mahanandi (Kurnool), Boyakonda Gangamma temple ( ), Sri Narasimha Swamy temple of Ahobilam (Nandyal), and Avadhuta Sri Kasinayana Jyothi Temple (Kurnool).
 
 Principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) P Mallikharjuna Rao, said: “All our historical temple premises are potential places to be developed as international tourist hubs. Creation of basic infrastructure and development of parks can help in this cause.” 
 
 After a review with officials on Monday, the PCCF directed field officers to ready detailed project reports to develop eco-parks at 10 major temples. 
 
 He said theme parks will be set up in the temple premises without deviating from the religious significance of the temple. “Raasi Vanam, Nakshtra Vanam, Vinayaka Vanam, Panchavati, nature trail paths will be designed at the temple hills to attract tourists throughout the year,” said the PCCF.
 
 
