The cricket world was waking up to the concept of Twenty20 in 2008 when the   (CSK) management sat down to build their team. At a time when every other franchisee was looking for stars in their roster, CSK had a different plan. Yes, they had MS Dhoni, but other than the Jharkhand blaster, that team was more about players who were ideally suited to T20 format than big names.

 Over the next few years, CSK forged a T20 template that slowly became the reference point for every T20 franchisee across the world. Bat deep, pack the team with allrounders, have a left-arm pacer for variation — CSK had all the ingredients that took them to six finals and made them the team to beat in the IPL.
 
 Now, after serving a two-year ban, CSK are again coming back to the IPL fold and this time too, they have sprung a few surprises. At a time when franchises were fighting to get youngsters in their roster, CSK went completely the other way. At the recent IPL auction, as India U-19 stars like Shubman Gill, Prithvi Shaw and Kamlesh Nagarkotti went for huge money, CSK chose veterans like  , Dwayne Bravo and   who are deep into their 30s. They also paid Rs7.8 crores for 32-year-old underrated allrounder  , which raised many eyebrows.
 
 "Kedar’s slow bowling and batting abilities make him a great buy. We had decided before going into the auctions that we are going to go all out for these guys. We are very happy with the team we have got," CSK CEO Kasi Viswanathan said. 
 
 Another extremely questionable selection was Harbhajan. The 37-year-old Punjab offie is well past his prime, is nowhere close to the Indian team, and was overlooked by Mumbai Indians, the team for which he played 10 seasons. And most importantly, he was coming in place of local boy Ravichandran Ashwin, who is at the prime of his international career.
 
 The obvious choice in a situation like this would have been Tamil Nadu offie Washington Sundar, who has already made his India debut and is a hot property in the city. But according to the CSK management, it was Dhoni’s instruction to go for Harbhajan, who had won many matches for India when the former was the captain. And CSK got the Turbanator for his base price of Rs2 crores, which left them with quite a bit of money towards the end of the auctions, when the others had little left in their purse. That helped them pick up another ‘senior’ M Vijay at his base price towards the fag end of the two-day auction process.
 
 "Youth does not necessarily translate into matchwinning performances. There is no substitute for experience — we are players who have walked the difficult road and know how to deal with it," Harbhajan told TOI about his forthcoming stint with CSK.
 
 Not just Bhajji, the other premier spinner in the line-up is South Africa’s  , who is 38 years old. Even as a section of the fans was not very comfortable with the selection, the CSK management insisted that Tahir is as good a wrist-spinner as Yuzvendra Chahal or Kuldeep Yadav. "Look at his quality, don’t see his age. This is the era when athletes go that extra mile to keep themselves fit even when they are closing 40. The prime example of that is Roger Federer, who wins so much at 37," said a CSK manager.
 
 The Roger Federer analogy is a predictable one to cite if you have chosen a so-called "dad’s army" to deal with the exuberance of youth. The only problem is about living up to it, because not every sportsman in the world is Roger Federer.
 
 In five months’ time we will know if CSK can come close to doing what Federer has done in the last one year or the new-age superfit machines maul this unit with old parts, forcing CSK to go back to the drawing board all over again.
 
 
