GAYA: None of the 15 foreign monasteries in Bodh Gaya, which were served demolition notices by Bodh   Nagar Panchayat in the last week of February for violation of building bylaws and several other norms, has given any reply even after the expiry of a weeklong response time.

 Bodh Gaya Nagar Panchayat executive officer Sushil Kumar said notices were issued to 23 foreign monasteries based in Bodh Gaya. “We have received response from eight of the notice recipients. The remaining 15 monasteries have so far maintained silence on the issue,” Kumar said.
 
 Asked about follow up actions, the executive officer said the response of the monasteries was being observed. “Some monasteries like   were very old and came into existence much before the implementation of building laws. These monasteries will be spared demolition or other penal action,” said Kumar.
 
 He added that three options are available with the monastery managers with respect to the demolition notices. “They can either get the buildings regularised by paying a penalty of Rs 2000 per square meter or voluntarily demolish the illegal constructions. In the last case, the government will intervene to enforce the building laws. Nonetheless, it is a sensitive issue as it involves foreign relations,” Kumar said.
 
 The official, however, added that no concrete evidence of monasteries indulging in commercial activities has so far surfaced. “Action cannot be taken if monasteries offer accommodation to visitors on the basis of voluntary donation and no fixed room tariff,” he said.
 
 Violation of Foreigners Act makes it mandatory for accommodation providers including hotels, guest houses and monasteries to furnish personal details of the foreigners staying in their facility and the information has to be submitted online through Form C.
 
 “Some instances of violation have come to light and police case has been instituted against the violators. The information regarding name, nationality, passport number, Visa details, purpose of visit and likely duration of stay of foreign visitors is to be provided to the SSP,” Kumar said.
 
 
