CHANDIGARH: Cricketers from   are taking massive strides in international cricket. After the U-19 team reached the semifinals of the U-19 World Cup in New Zealand, four Afghan cricketers were selected by different franchisees in the   auction over the weekend. One of them was 16-year-old mystery spinner Mujeeb Zadran, who was picked by Kings XI Punjab for Rs 4 crore. His base price was Rs 50 lakh. He is the youngest player to be chosen in the IPL auction this season.

 Kings XI and Delhi Daredevils were involved in an intense bidding for Mujeeb. In the end, Kings XI prevailed as the young spinner’s worth increased by 8 times.
 
 Mujeeb, who hails from Khost province in Afghanistan, has had a successful start to his international career, having picked 7 wickets in just 3 one-day internationals. In his ODI debut, Mujeeb took 4/24 in a match-winning cause against Ireland in   in December last year.
 
 What makes Mujeeb mysterious is his ability to bowl off-breaks, leg-breaks, carrom ball and ripping googlies with imperceptible change in his action.
 
 Mujeeb came into the limelight in October last year. Playing for the Afghanistan U-19 team, he demolished the Bangladesh colts, scalping 7/19 in a one-dayer. It helped Afghanistan defend a paltry score of 133. By the end of the bilateral series between the two teams, Mujeeb had 17 wickets to his credit. His brilliant show earned him a contract with Comilla Victorians in the Bangladesh Premier League.
 
 The following month, during the U-19   in Kuala Lumpur, he picked up 20 wickets in the tournament and in the final against Pakistan returned with figures of 5/13, which helped Afghanistan win the title. He bamboozled the young Pakistani batsmen with a plethora of tricks. The title-clinching performance was preceded by a six-wicket haul in the semifinal against Nepal.
 
 In the ongoing U-19 World Cup, he took 4/14 in a quarterfinal encounter against the hosts New Zealand. Again, his effort proved to be a match-winning one.
 
 If he is given a chance to play by the Kings XI team management, Mujeeb’s mystery spin will be something to look forward to in the upcoming IPL.
 
 
