BENGALURU: Politicians offering freebies to voters during elections is nothing new, but the paths they are taking to ensure their gestures don't go unrewarded are. 

 A week ago, a middle-aged man campaigning for a candidate from a major party in Chandra Layout of West Bengaluru walked into a lower middle-class house and offered a gold nose ring to the homemaker. However, before the woman could take the ring, the campaigner took out a photograph of goddess Om Shakti and asked the woman to swear in the name of the deity that she and her family would vote for the candidate he is supporting. Apparently, the campaigner repeated the exercise in the entire colony, knowing that the deity has a huge following there.
 
 Getting voters to swear in the name of god before handing them freebies is becoming widely prevalent. While the freebies could be anything from nose rings to puja material and cookers to watches, the deities are carefully chosen. 
 
 Goddess Sigandur Chowdeshwari of Sagar in Shivamogga has followers across the state. Recently, campaigners of another major party in Tumakuru made it a point to carry photos of goddesses to take a vow from voters as they offered silver vermilion boxes to them. "We believe voters who swear in the name of the gods they follow won't break their promises," said a campaigner.
 
 The photos of gods used by campaigners vary from region to region and community to community. Kuruba community members in Koppal and surrounding areas are followers of   of Solapur in Maharashtra. "Politicians cutting across party lines make it a point to take promises in the name of the said god while offering freebies in Koppal region. While some educated people may not oblige at the time of voting, others mostly do," said Ravi R, a social worker from Koppal.
 
 In many districts of North Karnataka, where the   community is dominant, promises are taken in front of photographs of Basavanna, the 12th century social reformer. 
 
  Voters are smart too 
 
 And what's the guarantee that the freebie receiver will keep his promise at the time of voting? Campaigners cite past elections to say a majority of them do keep their word. 
 
 "However, there are some smart ones too. If a family has four voters for instance, the members will collect freebies from all parties and take oaths too. They then divide the family's votes among various parties and draw comfort from the fact that they have kept their word. They may not fear us, but then they don't want to upset their gods," said another campaigner.
 
