ROHTAK: Days after Yashpal Malik-led   (AIJASS) withdrew its protest, the Akhil Bharatiya Jat Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti (ABJASS)   chief Hawa Singh   on Monday started an indefinite dharna at   village of Hisar district. The ABJASS had halted its protest almost two years back after reassurances from the state government on fulfilling demands. Malik had decided to relent till March 31 after getting assurance on implementation of all demands raised by them.

 Earlier, it had planned an indefinite dharna at another site to demand release of community youths languishing in jails since violence during 2016 Jat quota stir, but it had to shift from there after it was found wet on Monday morning. Alleging conspiracy, Sangwan said that it was an attempt by Jat leader from rival camp  , who had allegedly colluded with the district administration to prevent the protest, fearing growing support to their cause.
 
 “The state government had been fooling the Jat community by statements of withdrawal of cases. However, only one has been released from jail,” Sangwan said. Demanding that they want the list of those from the community against whom the cases had been withdrawn by the state government, he said that they had been running no other agenda like Malik. “Neither we want to hold dialogues with the state government, nor do we want assurance of any kind. Just provide us the list if the government has withdrawn cases against any person booked during the 2016 stir,” he maintained.
 
 On the cases registered for arson at Haryana finance minister Capt Abhimanyu’s Rohtak house, he said that their protest was against the state government cases only. “Unkay ghar ko aag lagi thi, wo baat hum unsay karengay. Jat samaj ke log unkay pass jakar jholi faila dengay ki hamare bacchon ko maaf kar do. (His house was torched. We will talk to him about cases filed by him. Jat community members will beg for forgiveness for the youths,” said Sangwan.
 
  fails to file chargesheet
 
 Chandigarh: The Special CBI Judge on Monday adjourned the hearing in the case of violence at the residence of finance minister Capt Abhimanyu as the CBI failed to file the chargesheet. Giving a last warning to the agency the CBI court fixed the case for March 8. As many as 40 persons were arrested in the case, which was initially registered by Haryana police. Later, the cases were transferred to the CBI.
 
 
