KOLKATA: Sunday morning’s car crash on NH-6 which killed the driver of a Rs 3.13 crore Ferrari, turned the focus on a one-of-its-kind club of high-end sports car owners in the city. They mostly take out their cars at night or in the early mornings and get the machines back in the garage as city peak traffic hour begins.

 
  
  
 
 Club GT — the unregistered club that has a Facebook page and an Instagram account — was formed four years ago and has about 28 members. The cars include eight Ferraris, five Porsches, three Lamborghinis, three Audis, three Jaguars, two Mercedes, one BMW, one Rolls Royce and an Aston Martin. The Ferrari California T that was involved in the accident was part of the club but was not being driven by the owner. Car owner   was driving his Mercedes S class on Sunday allowing fellow club member Shibaji Roy to drive the Ferrari since he was interested in buying it. Shibaji, the director of ML Roy and Co Sanitations Pvt Ltd, had a Jaguar F Type in his garage.
 
 “We had formed the club with the intention to drive together and spread awareness and love. We never race and maintain the requisite safety measures while driving. We have been driving together for six years and this is the first time any of our members or cars has met with an accident,” said Tolani, one of the first members of the group.
 
 The club was initially part of the Facebook forum ‘Elite Car Club Kolkata’ whose primary objectives included daily updates on exotic cars in the city, daily spotting of such cars, exclusive photos of the vehicles and sharing information on premium cars around the world.
 
 But later, some members who own premium sports cars in the city formed a separate forum. The objective then became going on drives together and spreading awareness about safe driving. However, after the Sunday accident, the group’s contents on both Facebook and Instagram were made invisible by the administrators.
 
 “It is not possible for us to drive these luxury cars around the city in this heavy traffic. Moreover, there is a fear of the cars getting dents and scratches, apart from unwanted public attention. Hence, we prefer to drive them mostly at night or in the early morning and away from the city,” said Parveen Agarwal.
 
 The club isn’t registered yet, but the members maintain certain rules whenever they go on a long drive. “For the last year, we regularly go on a drive till a coffee shop off the highway, take some photos and head back to the city,” said Agarwal.
 
