KOLKATA: Work of installation of the city's first set of pedestrian boom barriers began on Wednesday with the agency in charge of setting up the electronically-synchronised barriers finishing the ground work and connecting the cable with traffic signal posts at two crossings.

 Engineers and workmen of   - the agency at work - have started the foundation work at   crossing and Park Street-JL Nehru Road crossing. On Thursday, they will work at DL Khan Road-AJC Bose Road crossing.
 
  
  
 
 "Exide crossing is considered the most accident-prone area for pedestrians. Park Street is important in terms of volume of pedestrians. Hence we started with these two crossings. We have done the groundwork and cabling work. They can be functional the moment they are powered up and are electronically synced with the traffic signalling system," said  , the owner of Kavya Technologies.
 "During emergency, the barriers can be controlled manually as well as with remote controls from the traffic kiosk," Tibrewala added.
 
 Kolkata Police is going to install 1,000 such barriers, like the ones used to stop cars at toll plazas or mall parking kiosks, at 250 crossings all over the city to discipline jaywalkers. The system will operate like railway level crossings and toll plazas where the rectangular beam would open and allow pedestrians to pass through it when the pedestrian signal turns green and would drop down when the signal is turns red. Police have selected 75 "dangerous" crossings in the first phase where the barriers will be set up. 
 
 Cops said this is the first time a police force is installing such barriers in the country. Each of these automated "pedestrian boom barriers" costs around Rs 70,000 and the overall project expense will be Rs 7 crore. "All the barriers will be in sync with the traffic signals at these key crossings," a senior cop said.
 "With boom barriers, we will try to ensure the pedestrians do not come on the carriageway when traffic moves," said  , the deputy commissioner (traffic). "Each barrier will be around 5 metres in length and would be installed on the intersection where the zebra crossing leads to the footpath. The remaining width of the pavement will be blocked with iron railings or guardrails," he said.
 
  
  
