BHUBANESWAR: If   and the BJD go on to win a fifth successive term in office in 2019, they could look back to this week in May when the government came up with two important initiatives.

 One of them, taken earlier this week, was to hand land rights to urban slum dwellers and the other, announced on Friday, was to allow sharecroppers to avail farm loan without collateral. Together, they may prove to be a political masterstroke ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha and assembly elections. They could have a similar impact to the BJD government’s decision to give rice at Re 1 per kg rice ahead of the 2014 elections.
 
 The main problem for the landless farmers, who take land on rent from land owners and cultivate as sharecroppers, is to get bank loans. Since banks insist on land rights documents to give farm loans, sharecroppers have to depend on land owners who avail loans and sublet them or private moneylenders, thereby increasing the chance of exploitation.
 
 Cooperation minister   said the government would facilitate loans thorough joint liability groups comprising at least five sharecroppers, who can avail Rs 50,000 in loan from primary agricultural cooperative societies (PACS) at one per cent interest. The government has a target to distribute Rs 200 crore to 1.35 lakh farmers in the coming kharif season. A government official said the move would also help sharecroppers avail insurance cover on the crops, which otherwise is availed by the land owner.
 
 For slum dwellers, the biggest problem so far used to be a place to stay in urban centres. Though the cities are dependent on them for various work, they are seen as encroachers. By providing land rights to them on ‘encroached’ land, the government has removed fear of getting evicted. Under the Odisha Land Rights to Slum Dwellers Act, 2017, the government would be providing them land to build houses and rehabilitate them.
 
 On Monday, Naveen gave land rights certificates to 2,000 slum dwellers and promised to develop modern urban homes complete with streetlights, roads, community halls, parks and playgrounds for them. The government has announced to extend the benefits to 10 lakh slum dwellers living in 2,500 slums across the state in a year.
 
 Political analysts feel the twin initiatives, if implemented properly, may help the BJD consolidate its position among both the urban and rural poor electorates. “The schemes come a bit late with only a few months left for the next elections. But if the government manages to fulfil its promises, it will reap rich political dividends,” said  , a retired professor of political science in Berhampur University.
 
 Farmer leaders have mixed reactions about the benefits of the latest move for sharecroppers. While one farmer leader,  , welcomed the move, Akshay Kumar, convener of Nava Nirman Krishak Sangathan, a farmers’ outfit, said it would result in sharecroppers living in the vicious cycle of debts. “Instead, the government should give social security allowance to sharecroppers and marginal farmers,”   said.
 
  spokesperson Sajjan   said the government’s intention is not to help the needy farmers or urban poor. “It is coming out with such initiatives after doing nothing for 18 years. But it lacks sincerity. Without giving legal sanction to sharecroppers through legislation, such shortcuts will only encourage siphoning of funds,” Sharma said.
 
