GURUGRAM: Long waits and frequent traffic snarls at   on Golf Course Road are still giving a tough time to commuters as Huda has not yet thrown open the newly constructed   at the busy junction. The reason — absence of a cost-sharing agreement with real estate giant DLF.

 The underpass, constructed at a cost of Rs 48 crore, is part of the 16-lane signal-free DLF-Huda expressway. Six other underpasses on this high-speed corridor are already functional. The   Chowk underpass, which was incorporated into the expressway project at a latter stage, was completed six months back.
 
 Huda officials said that the cost-sharing agreement with DLF would be signed on Thursday.
 
 “The pact was supposed to be inked on Wednesday, but the DLF executive concerned was not available. So, hopefully the agreement will be signed on Thursday. And in a week or two, the underpass will be opened for traffic,” Huda administrator   told TOI.
 
 “The agreement will pave the way for completion of the expressway project, which was under construction for the past five years,” he added.
 
 The Rs 595 crore expressway project was executed on cost sharing (50:50) between Huda and DLF. With the new agreement, Huda will have to pay Rs 24 crore to DLF for the Genpact   underpass.
 
 The project received in-principal approval from the Haryana government in 2008. Huda and DLF signed an agreement in September 2011 to construct the expressway on cost-sharing basis. Finally, work started in June 2012 and was expected to be completed in June 2015. 
 
 But work was delayed due to several reasons — litigations, land issues, removal of obstacles and addition of certain elements like the underpass at Genpact Chowk at later stage. The deadline of the project has been extended five times and the current deadline is June 2018.
 
 The 16-lane road covering 8.3 km from NH-8 toll plaza near Ambience Mall to Sector 55-56 was constructed to ease heavy traffic flow in the city. The signal-free road is expected to reduce traffic time from Delhi border to Golf Course Road and adjoining areas. The road is expected to benefit about 1.5 million residents and commuters from outside Gurugram who work in the city that houses many multi-national companies.
 
 “Finally we will get relief from congestion. With the opening of the underpass, our travel time will be reduced significantly,” said Anoop Mishra, a resident of Sector 56.
 
 
