Starting next month, 1.5 billion   users outside of the  , including those in India, will not be governed by the Terms of Service (ToS) framed under its operations in Ireland, news agency Reuters said on Thursday. 

 While the move is being seen as the social networking behemoth’s hedge against the impending stringent General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which comes into force in the European Union on May 25, Facebook claimed that it is “offering everyone who uses Facebook the same privacy protections, controls and settings, no matter where they live.” 
 
 Simply put, the Facebook move means that any user outside of EU will not be able to file complaints with the Ireland’s Data Protection Commissioner or in Irish courts which will be governed by the GDPR; instead, the complaint will be judged by the relatively lenient US laws on privacy. India is yet to adopt a data protection law. 
 
 Last year, the government released a white paper on the same and invited comments. A committee headed by Justice BN Srikrishna is currently deliberating the issue to draft a data protection framework. Facebook currently says that if “you are a resident of or have your principal place of business in the   or Canada”, the ToS are an agreement between you and Facebook Inc which is based in the US, otherwise, it is an agreement with Facebook Ireland Limited. 
 
 “Next month, Facebook is planning to make that the case for only European users, meaning 1.5 billion members in Africa, Asia, Australia and Latin America will not fall under the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation,” Reuters reported. Facebook said that the changes will not mean different policies for different jurisdictions. “The GDPR and EU consumer law set out specific rules for terms and data policies which we have incorporated for EU users. We have been clear that we are offering everyone who uses Facebook the same privacy protections, controls and settings, no matter where they live. These updates do not change that,” Stephen Deadman, Facebook’s deputy chief global privacy officer, told TOIover email. 
 
 The GDPR imposes heavy penalties on privacy violations and unauthorised use of users’ data, with fines of up to four per cent of global annual revenue for the same. “The previously unreported move, which Facebook confirmed to Reuters on Tuesday, shows the world’s largest online social network is keen to reduce its exposure to GDPR, which allows European regulators to fine companies for collecting or using personal data without users’ consent,” the Reuters report said. Ireland was unaware of the change, said Reuters, quoting an Irish official who on condition of anonymity “said he did not know of any plans by Facebook to transfer responsibilities wholesale to the United States or to decrease Facebook’s presence in Ireland, where the social network is seeking to recruit more than 100 new staff.” 
 
 This report comes after Facebook CEO   appeared for a hearing with the US Congress last week, answering questions about the social network’s use of user data for advertising, data harvesting, censorship, and meddling by foreign actors in the US elections. Last month, a whistleblower from UK-based political consultancy   made startling revelations about how data of tens of millions of users from Facebook was harvested for psychographic assessment and subsequent targeting with political messaging, prompting the hearing by US lawmakers.
 
