PUNE: The government has set the ball rolling on the proposed   from   dam to  , which could save near 2 TMC of water per annum. 

 The new tunnel will be an alternative to the existing 34km long irrigation canal passing through the city, which carries water to the rural parts. The underground tunnel would help save 2.2 TMC of water every year, which is currently getting wasted through seepage or theft.
 
  
 Apart from saving water, the tunnel will also benefit citizens in a multitude of ways. The land freed up after the removal of the canal could be opened up to development. Also, without an open water surface, mosquito breeding will also be lessened to a considerable extent.
 
 Seven companies have submitted ideas on the execution of the project to the state irrigation department, which will evaluate them and prepare a detailed project report (DPR). the DPR will be sent to the state government in a few days.
 
 According to officials, the project can be completed in five years. “There won’t be many obstacles as there is no need to acquire land; the water will flow underground,” an official said. 
 
 The cost of the project is estimated to be Rs1,200-1500 crore. 
 
 Irrigation department official said they have nearly finalized the alignment of the tunnel. It will run straight from the Khadakwasla reservoir under areas like Ambegaon, Katraj, Yevalewadi and   before ending at Phursungi.
 
 It is 10km shorter than the canal. “Also, there will be less wear and tear and low maintenance as compared to the open canal,” an official said.
 
 “The annual savings of over 2 TMC of water is the most crucial outcome,” the official said, “Thanks to the latest tunnel boring technology, it will be easy to dig a tunnel.”
 
 Irrigation department sources said the project will also open up additional land for use. According to estimates, about 1,700 hectares of land that was used for the three canals from Khadakwasla will be freed after the tunnel is completed, and can be utilized for other purposes. The cost of this land is around Rs19,000 crore under the current ready reckoner rates, sources said.
 
 A retired official said the government will need to spell out its stand on two crucial points — funding of the project and how the freed-up land will be utilized. “There are many options to utilize the land — for public utilities, transport projects, residential and commercial projects,” the former official said. 
 
 There has been a long pending demand to repair the existing canal passing through the city, which has developed cracks and leaks at many points. The PMC, which lifts water from the canal, plans to stop doing it as it laying a water pipeline up to Cantonment Water Works.
 
 
