SHIMLA: Questioning the policy of the previous   government in Himachal to promote higher education through private universities, the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG) has pointed out that out of the 17 private universities established, 10 were located in one district alone.

 In its report tabled in the assembly on Thursday, CAG highlighted that assessment of need for private universities in the state was not made and four of them were allowed to come up in one gram panchayat alone. This indicated that regional needs and priorities were not considered, the report says.
 
 In  , 17 private universities were set up between May 2002 and April 2014 through separate Acts. The state government had formulated and notified (December 2008, and November 2009) guidelines for establishment of private universities in the state.
 
 CAG scrutiny of these guidelines revealed that the government had not prescribed any mechanism to assess the need for private universities in state, or to identify regions and fields of study where demand for higher education existed but facilities were inadequate.
 
 Report said that there was no system of inviting applications from interested private parties and selecting the best applicants for establishment of private universities in the regions and fields of study identified. Instead, applications were accepted as and when they were received from private parties for establishment of private universities at a location of their choice.
 
 Thus, 10 of the 17 private universities were located in the seventh-least populous district of Solan (four were found to be located in the same gram panchayat), while a total of only six private universities were located in the five most populous districts. Only one private university was located in the other least populated districts.
 
 Out of 17 private universities in the state, only three had obtained accreditation from   as of March 2017, it pointed out.
 
 It was noticed that there was total enrolment of only 6% during 2011-17 in certain courses in the two out of the 10 private universities located in Solan district, indicating that demand for these courses in these universities was low.
 
 “Joint director, higher education agreed that private universities had low enrolment as compared to sanctioned intake,” it added.
 
 It said that state government had not prescribed any objective criteria or norms for assessing the financial soundness, expertise and potential of the courses proposed by the sponsoring bodies leading to arbitrary and non-transparent decision-making.
 
 It said that there was acute shortage of manpower in the Himachal Pradesh   Regulatory Commission, which was reflected in large shortfalls in conducting inspections. “1,394 courses in private universities during 2011-17 had been approved by the regulatory commission without conducting inspections to ascertain availability of infrastructure and staff,” it added.
 
 Report said that fees proposed by the private universities had been approved by the government without considering costing elements. “Three test-checked private universities had increased fees by 21%, 23% and 58% for the academic session 2017-18 as compared with 2016-17 without justification,” it added. CAG audit revealed that three test-checked private universities had made unauthorized collection of development charges amounting to Rs 4.58 crore. Four test-checked private universities had not refunded security money of Rs 2.89 crore to 2,906 passed out students during 2012-16.
 
 As many as 15 private universities were functioning in the state with faculty not possessing minimum qualifications, especially in the professor (22%) and associate professor (28%) levels.
 
 There was significant shortage of faculty in private universities, particularly in the professor (38%) and associate professor (61%) levels.
 
