NEW DELHI: As Indian forces continue to turn up the heat all along the LoC, the government has also diplomatically conveyed to   that a significant increase has been noticed by the Indian side in infiltration attempts.

 The government has also told   that Pakistani troops must stop unprovoked firing for both sides to be able to check the increase in ceasefire violations. India has rejected Pakistan’s demand for a political initiative to reduce ceasefire violations as it believes all firing by Indian troops have been retaliatory.
 
 In a letter to her counterpart   last month, foreign minister   had made the same point that Indian forces fired only to prevent infiltration and cross-border incursions. Asif had earlier written to her seeking a political dialogue to deal with ceasefire violations as the existing mechanisms like DGMO dialogue and flag meetings, he claimed, had failed to check such incidents.
 
 Even in the fresh incident, in which the Indian army killed 7 Pakistani soldiers, was caused by a ceasefire violation by the Pakistanis, the government has told Islamabad.
 
 Pakistan, however, condemned the "unprovoked ceasefire violations by the Indian occupation forces’’ saying that the Indian army used heavy mortars in Jandrot sub sector of Kotli Sector.
 
 Islamabad summoned India’s deputy high commissioner JP Singh to say that despite calls for restraint, India continued to indulge in ceasefire violations. In 2018, the Indian forces, Pakistan claimed, have carried out more than 100 ceasefire violations. "This unprecedented escalation in ceasefire violations by India is continuing from the year 2017 when the Indian forces committed more than 1900 ceasefire violations,’’ it said in a statement, as it reiterated Pakistan’s threat that ceasefire violations may lead to a "strategic miscalculation’’.
 
 Despite the rising number of ceasefire violations though, India and Pakistan have remained in touch, most noticeably in the form of the ongoing engagement between   Ajit Doval and his counterpart  . Sources here said that Doval too has conveyed to Pakistan that it must check infiltration attempts to ensure that there is peace along LoC.
 
