Guntur: One of the bases of separate Telangana state movement was invasion of local culture. The spearheads of the movement used to highlight as to how the food habits of erstwhile Nizami state, too, were uprooted after the arrival of business people from coastal AP to Hyderabad. 

 It seems the trend has reversed after the bifurcation of the state. Coastal AP, which is known for its rich vegetarian food, is is now lapping up the tasty Hyderabadi  .
 
 Biryani points are mushrooming across the new capital city region, including in cities of Vijayawada and Guntur. Huge hoardings advertising ‘authentic Hyderabadi biryani’ have become a common sight here. Cashing in on the fast changing food culture of the region, young entrepreneurs are investing in biryani restaurants, and earning good returns.
 
 A designer restaurant, Cousin’s  , located on Palakalur road in Guntur has become a rage. “We focus on offering a vast range of new cuisine, with our unique and signature dishes such as the water chestnut, mutton raan biryani, and grilled broccoli,” owner of the hotel M Ramu told TOI. 
 
 Even the furniture in the restaurant is designed to lure customers. Ramu personally takes order from clients on his tab, and does not hesitate to experiment to roll-out new variety of dishes.
 
 Although, biryani points are not completely new to the region, there were confined to old towns in Guntur and Vijayawada, which have a considerable Muslim population. The trend of setting up retail biryani outlets caught up in the region only after the bifurcation. KV Ramana Murthy, a septuagenarian retired school teacher, said, “Earlier, small hotels, usually called as ‘mess’, used to serve vegetarian food, mainly to students flooding Vijayawada and Guntur. Even big hotels used to offer only Sakhahara Brahmana Andhra Bhojanam. Now, we find it difficult to locate a pure veg hotel.”
 
 According to information, each biryani point sells nothing less than 500-600 plates each day. While small roadside eateries offer chicken biryani at just Rs 120 a plate, decent hotels charge anywhere between Rs 300 and Rs 450 per plate. A small street vendor in Old Guntur sells around 2,000 biryani packets in a span of just a few hours. He opens his stall at 6pm and runs it till 2am. Daily wagers and construction workers depend on the cheap and ‘rich’ food, and the stall sees a massive footfall.
 
 “Absence of big parks and recreational facilities is one of the prime reasons people of Guntur and Vijayawada flock to restaurants that offer new food. For decades now, they mostly had vegetarian restaurants, and the new entrant — Hyderabadi biryani — has literally floored them,” said Durga Rao, a hotelier from Guntur. “So, people find that visiting hotels with families is a big stress buster,” he said. According to unofficial count, Guntur city has over 500 biryani food joints, and Vijayawada has more. 
 
 Taking the love for biryanis in the region into serious account, branded food joints such as Pista House and Paradise, too, have moved into the region.
 
 
