BENGALURU: Several households in the city are fretting:   are either absent, or   These women are getting   for politicians who are in need of people to do “ground work”, and make some quick bucks.

 Ground work includes canvassing door-to-door, creating awareness about candidates in residential localities, distributing pamphlets and raising slogans.
 
 Jade Krishna, an agent who gathers people for canvassing, said, “Most people he hires are women, young and middle-aged. They are sent in groups of 30 to 50 on morning and evening rounds, for which each of them is paid Rs 500, along with food packets. Garment workers and people from economic weaker section (EWS) colonies are also roped in,” he added.
 
 Shanthamma N, a resident of Mallathahalli, said she doesn’t mind skipping her regular work as canvassing gets her quick money. “All I have to do is spend 2 to 3 hours in the morning and evening,” she said.
 
 Kanniyamma N, a maid in Banashankari locality, said, “They pay Rs 200 for a morning session, or Rs 500 for canvassing in the morning and evening.”
 
 Some housemaids and garment workers manage both regular work and campaigning. “I earn Rs 4,000 per house and work at four houses every day. But life in Bengaluru is costly. What's wrong in making hay during elections, when I can earn at least Rs 5,000 in 10 days?” asks Karumari L, a resident of Mahadevapura.
 
 Shanthala K, a resident of Yelahanka, said her maid’s phone remains “not reachable” and neither does she take calls in the mornings these days. “We know she is out canvassing. Since it’s only for a few days, we can adjust,” she added.
 
 Sister Celia, founder member of Karnataka Domestic Workers’ Union, says there is nothing wrong in domestic or garment workers joining campaigns as long as they don't sell their votes to parties. “But payments are a problem here too. Agents who hire women workers don’t pay them the full amount. In Chitradurga for example, workers are paid Rs 150 for canvassing in rural areas and Rs 200 in towns. Even here, the full amount doesn’t reach the women,” she added.
 
 
 
 
