With the Centre approving its ambitious Bharatmala Pariyojana’s phase I recently, as indicated by finance minister  , to develop about 35,000km in the country, the National Highways Authority of India is all set to implement the high-cost project in five corridors in the state. The central agency recently urged the state highways department to transfer the assets of these existing two-lane highways and provide no objection certificate at the earliest.

 The   government’s pet project, aimed at providing seamless connectivity of interior and backward areas and borders of the country, is estimated to cost ₹5.35 lakh crore. Government sources said the project, which envisages linking port terminals to the hinterland, will be taken up on an 800km stretch from Vellakoil to Sankakiri via Erode, Musiri to Meikalnaikanpatty near Namakkal, Madurai to Natham, Puttur ( ) to Janappachatram in  , Chengalpet to Tuticorin via Nagapattinam and Ramanathapuram bypass. The NHAI requested the state highways department on January 11, to expedite the transfer on a priority basis. The links will have a positive impact on the Logistics Performance Index (LPI) of the country.
 
 The corridors identified in the state are crucial links for the economy. “The NHAI has notified new NH numbers for all these stretches. It is likely these highways would be transferred within a fortnight. Their strengthening and widening will be done after land acquisition,” said a government official. The project also figured during the talks that Union road transport and highways minister   had held with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami recently in Chennai. A day after the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, chaired by Modi approved phase I of the scheme in October, the minister expressed hope of launching the highway construction before the end of this year.
 
 A government report says the new programme focuses on optimising the efficiency of road traffic movement across the country by bridging critical infrastructure gaps. Identification of the project stretches under the components of the scheme has been done based on detailed study, freight flow projects and verification of the identified infrastructure gaps through geo mapping, using data from Bhaskaracharya Institute for Space Applications and Geo-Informatics as well as from other sources.
 
