MUMBAI: The number of two-wheelers on city roads is growing at an alarming pace, with 975 bikes for every km of road in Mumbai currently. It translates to nearly 1 bike per metre, while the length of an average two-wheeler is around 1.8 metres.

 
 The total population of bikes and scooters will cross the 20 lakh mark in just two to three months, according to the state   department’s latest statistics, and this could lead to more congestion and pollution.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Taking cognisance of these figures, the city RTOs plan to lay special emphasis on preventing mishaps due to reckless driving by bikers and also create awareness on the compulsory use of helmets. This will part of the ‘Road Safety Fortnight’, which will be launched by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Monday morning.
 
 Newly appointed state transport commissioner Shekhar Channe said that the road safety campaign will deal with general awareness on safe driving, aspects of traffic rules and habits such as compulsorily wearing helmets. “We are concerned with the rising number of bikes and scooters and will make efforts to ensure riders follow proper rules and wear helmets to prevent fatal mishaps,” he said.
 
 “The number of two-wheelers is rising exponentially, even as the city’s road length remains almost the same at around 2,000 km,” said another transport official.
 
 Transport experts pointed out that motorcycles were a “scourge” in urban areas as they made a lot of noise while at the same time speeding bikes posed a hazard to road safety. “We often come across bikers jumping signals, driving in wrong direction and failing to stop at   lines. There is need to inculcate self discipline,” said A V   of  . “I feel that the government has failed to provide proper public transport for citizens,” said Arun Mhetre, an office-goer from  . “With poor frequency of bus services and refusals by autos, it is better to purchase a two-wheeler to commute 2-3 km to the station daily,” he said. Motorcycle and scooter sales have gone up significantly in recent years, with the need for a two-wheeler for running errands, dropping child to school and coaching class, or to travel from home to station daily being some of the reasons. Many two-wheeler owners are women and college students, an official said.
 
 The statistics released by transport department show that the bike density was 522 bikes per km of road in 2010-11. This has gone up by more than 85% in seven years. “Nearly 12 lakh two-wheelers were registered in the past one decade,” an official said. Transport expert   said, “I call bikes flying polluting machines. They should be curbed as much as possible.”
 
