CHANDIGARH: On the day the   allowed “living will”, under which a person can make a statement in advance that their life should not be prolonged by putting them on a ventilator or an artificial support system, doctors at   said legalising passive euthanasia will help alleviate pain and suffering of many patients and their relatives.

 Doctors said in the absence of any legal provisions for a  , no patients or relatives approached seeking passive euthanasia. “I hope the Supreme Court decision would prove a milestone in alleviating the sufferings of such poor patients,” said Anil Kumar Gupta, medical superintendent, PGI.
 
 Gupta said the Supreme Court judgment was a historical step and the need was now to create awareness about patient’s right to have a dignified death.
 
 “There are a number of cases of terminally ill patients, who wish their sufferings would end. The SC decision has opened a door for them to take a decision. I think now the need will arise for medical institutes to make patients aware about this legal provision,” added Gupta.
 
 According to doctors, with no legal provision of living will up till now, close relatives of terminally ill patients just discontinue the medication take the patient home. The practice is known as “DAMA”, discharge against medical advice.
 
 “DAMA is but just another form of passive euthanasia. Patients and their wards know that medical assistance is futile so they just leave the hospital. Also, in cases where patients are alive as long as they are on ventilators, people take them home, especially if they are poor,” said a doctor.
 
 Dr G D Puri, a professor of anaesthesia and intensive care at PGI, said the judgment has also opened the option of “advance directives” for the patients.
 
 “In cases of patients not being able to decide the next course of medical treatment, say in a case of surgery, the SC decision would come as a help. Close family members can decide about patients’ medication in case the latter are not in a position to do so. At present, family members are reluctant to do so but this law will help them to do it fearlessly,” said Dr Puri.
 
 According to Dr  , head, department of renal transplant surgery, PGI, “The SC has asked for medical boards to take a final call on living wills. These boards should be constituted at the earliest so that cases can be taken up in health institutes.” 
 
 
 
 
 I have seen many patients in PGI who wanted the pain they underwent every hour of the day to end. But since the living will was not allowed, they were helpless.
 
 Anil Kumar Gupta, medical superintendent, PGI
 
 This is a good judgment by the court as it will also motivate organ donation among terminally ill patients
 
 Dr Ashish Sharma, head, department of renal transplant surgery, PGI
 
 
