BENGALURU: The properties of two close confidants of chief minister   were searched by the Income Tax (I-T) officials last week. The searches were conducted on Thursday and Friday when a few jewellery chains too were raided on suspicion of tax evasion.

 The I-T sleuths visited the Dollars Colony residence of   general secretary B S  , a close aide of Siddaramaiah for more than two decades. The officials reportedly searched the properties and residence of another associate of the CM.
 
 “The officials sought some documents which I promptly provided. I cooperated with them and answered their questions,” Shivanna told TOI.
 
 This is the second time that I-T officials are visiting Shivanna. Searches were conducted at his properties in Malavalli in Mandya district in December 2016 in the wake of demonetization.
 
 “I think they have acted on wrong tipoff that senior Congress leaders have parked their unaccounted money with me just because I’m a loyal supporter and associate of the chief minister,” Shivanna claimed.
 
 The officials said they conducted surveys at the properties of several persons, including Shivanna, as they found clues about investment in a certain jewellery chain and other transactions involving them. The raids were conducted on jewellery chains, including Lakshmi Gold Palace belonging to K P Nanjundi, who had recently left the Congress and joined BJP, C Krishnaiah Chetty & Sons, Vijaya Gems and Jewellery, Srikrishna Diamonds and others.
 
 “Our teams carried out searches and surveys at various places as they found business links between these persons and the jewellery chains,” said an official.
 
 While declining to reveal details of the records seized and assets confiscated, the official said they are exploring all possible angles, including potential violations of the Foreign Exchange Maintenance Act (FEMA) and Prevention of   Act provisions.
 
 Congress leaders alleged that the ruling party at the Centre is misusing its institutions. “They want to arm-twist Congress leaders as elections are around the corner. So many raids have been conducted on our party leaders and the outcome of the investigation is not known yet. We condemn the vindictive politics they are playing out,” said P R Ramesh, Congress spokesperson and member of Legislative Council.
 
 BJP leaders said the department is an independent entity and it is wrong to cast aspersions on it. “You reap what you sow. This applies to Congress leaders too. Instead of blaming somebody, let them prove their innocence and come clean,” said N Ravikumar, BJP state general secretary.
 
 
 
 
 Energy minister  , whose properties were searched in August last year, visited the I-T department on Tuesday and discussed his case. The investigators reportedly sought more documents from him.
 
 Sources said the I-T officials are focusing on money trail based on the entries in a diary found at the residence of Shivakumar’s close aide. It is said the dairy has entries indicating payments made to some Congress leaders and the party office in New Delhi.
 
 
