Bhopal: Madhya Pradesh government has been concealing from the Union government and NHRC information about actual number of police encounters in the state. 

 There were only four cases of police encounters in Madhya Pradesh in 2016 (3 cases) and 2017 (one), if official figures are to be believed. This figure was sent by MP government in its reply to a Union government query. 
 
 The encounter deaths of SIMI suspects in Bhopal and killing of six farmers in Manbdsaur in June last year does not figure in the list.
 
 A reply to an un-starred question in Lok Sabha on March 6 states that six cases of encounters were registered between April 2014 to March 2015 in the state. Three in April 2015 to March 2016 and one case each from April 2016 to March 2017 and April 2017 to February 15, 2018.
 
 Union government had asked all the state governments to furnish information on encounters and police action to the National Human Rights Commission, but Madhya Pradesh government did not part with the information on encounter of eight SIMI-men and farmers killing in Mandsaur last year as a result of which the number of cases registered with the National Human Rights Commission reflect only three cases in 2016 as against 11, and only one case in 17. Another crucial information that has been kept under the wraps from the Union government is that of August 2017 encounter, in which a wanted dacoit, Lalit Patel was shot dead by a team of MP police in Satna district. But the reply tabled in Lok Sabha shows only one person had died last year in police firing against the total number of 7.
 
 On March 6, the Union Minister of State for Home Affairs, Hansraj Gangaram Ahir replied that on May 12, 2010 the NHRC has circulated guidelines to state government and Union territories in dealing with cases of deaths occurring in police action. He emphasized that all cases of death in police action in the states shall be reported to NHRC by senior superintendent of police or superintendent of police of the district within 48 hours and subsequent report along with post mortem report, inquest report and findings of the magisterial enquiry/ enquiry by senior officers must be sent within three months and action must be initiated against officers found guilty in the magisterial inquiry/ police investigation.
 
 If counted the SIMI encounter and dacoit killed in Satna, leaving the farmers killed in police firing in Mandsaur, there were nine encounters in Madhya Pradesh in past two years while the information provided in Lok Sabha says there was just two encounters from April 2016 to February last month. NHRC spokesperson Jaimini Kumar Srivastava said it is mandatory for every state to send the encounter report. When it comes to notice that any state has not send report, the commission takes note of it and issues notice asking the reason of not informing. Regarding the issue in question, he said he was not aware of particular cases of MP. But he said the information would be true if it has been provided to Lok Sabha.
 
 Home Minister, Bhupendra Singh said, “I am not aware of it. Farmers’ incident was not an encounter, it was police action. Regarding the encounter of SIMI members and others not figuring in information given in Parliament, he said he will have to get the details checked from the officials concerned. On the other hand, Bhopal DIG Dharmendra Choudhary said information of SIMI men encounter after jailbreak was provided to NHRC a month after the incident.
 
 
