NEW DELHI:  , who is in 
  in connection to the   alleged bribery case, has been taken to Mumbai where he will be confronted with Indrani and Peter Mukerjea.

 
 Karti has been taken to Byculla jail and will be brought face-to-face with Indrani and Peter Mukerjea, who are currently lodged in jail awaiting trial for allegedly killing Sheena Bora.
 
  
  
 
 Karti is accused of using his clout as the son of then finance minister   to get   (FIPB) clearance for INX Media, headed by murder accused Peter and  , which was earlier accused of serious violations in receiving overseas funds.
 
 He was arrested by the   on February 28 on the basis of a statement made by Indrani Mukerjea, alleging that they paid $7 lakh to him on the instructions of his father P Chidamabaram, as quid pro quo for FIPB clearance.
 
 While appealing to a special court for his custody, the CBI prosecutor had said Karti needs to be confronted with other accused and suspects in the case.
 
 Karti's lawyer   had alleged that Indrani Mukerjea made the confession under the compulsion of the CBI. CBI prosecutor Tushar Mehta rebutted the charge and Indrani was not in the CBI custody but in judicial custody and her statement was needed to be taken as evidence.
 
 Both Peter and Indrani had alleged that they met the then finance minister P Chidambaram at his North Block office, seeking clearance for foreign investments in their media company after the Income Tax department detected irregularities in these instances, in 2007.
 
 Chidambaram had then asked them to "help the business of his son and make foreign remittances for the purpose," CBI officials said, quoting from the statements of the Mukerjeas.
 
 The couple had also admitted that they subsequently met Karti at a five-star hotel in Delhi, where he allegedly made a demand of $1 million, they said, adding that this was reiterated by Indrani before the magistrate as well.
 
 Indrani, they said, had confirmed in her statement to the CBI and ED that a payment of $7 lakh was made to the bank accounts of overseas firms linked to Karti.
 
 INX Media, as part of the alleged quid pro quo, had made a payment of over Rs 9.96 lakh to Advantage Strategic Consulting Private Limited (ASCPL), a firm allegedly controlled by Karti, by a cheque issued on July 15, 2008, the officials said.
 
 Peter and Indrani had said in their statement that Karti "suggested" to them the names of firms such as Chess Management and Advantage Strategic for the payments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
