NEW DELHI: A   has   over A-block of   JJ Colony in   since Saturday, when   of its   died in a   in Bawana Industrial Area. For most people staying in the colony, this industrial area, situated just two kilometres away, is the main source of their livelihood.

 Among the victims was 55-year-old Madina, the breadwinner for a seven-member family who had joined the factory just 15 days ago for more money. “Earlier, she was earning Rs 5,000. Then everybody said this new factory at F-83 was paying Rs 5, 500,” her son Firoz said. Madina’s husband, elder son and a daughter are differently abled. 
 
 Residents said that due to lack of options, they are forced to work in these factories for salaries lower than the minimum wage prescribed by the government. “We will be more careful now, but will have to work in Bawana only,” Madina’s daughter, Mubina, said as she sent her younger sister Rubina to work. 
 
 In the neighbouring house, Reeta’s mother, Phoolwati is inconsolable. It was 17-year-old Reeta’s first day at work. Phoolwati said her daughter died as she was made to work overtime. 
 
 Their neighbour, Baby Devi (41), also died in the fire. Her brother-in-law said the family got to know about her working in the factory only after her death. “Earlier, she was working at a slipper manufacturing unit. She had also joined this factory for extra money.” The owner didn’t ask for any document and at least 50 women were employed, he added. 
 
 Some of the workers who had left the unit at 5.30pm said owner Manoj Jain was in the factory on Saturday. The women were asked to tape small boxes filled with some yellow powder and then put a sticker on them. Two trucks filled with the ready stock had left in the afternoon. 
 
 “The room was full of yellow dust. Our hands and faces were covered with it. After a while, I went out and vomited,” said Meena (41). Nobody knew about the exact nature of the powder. Another worker, Deepu, said they were making a colour cracker called ‘Rang Birangi’. The factory was run from O block for two years, Meena added. 
 
 On Monday, another victim was identified as Avinash Yadav. Jain has been sent to judicial custody till Wednesday.
 
 
