PUNE: Rash driving and post-collision row for over 20 minutes between an autorickshaw driver and a two-wheeler rider cost an elderly Nerul woman — travelling in the three-wheeler — her life on Friday afternoon because neither spared a thought to her injuries she suffered in the accident.

 The   police booked the unidentified two-wheeler rider and the autorickshaw driver for neglecting the health of the deceased woman,   (68).
 
 The two vehicles collided head-on at Mitra Mandal Chowk near   around 11.45am and   suffered head injuries. Without bothering to check her condition, the autorickshaw driver and the motorcycle rider started fighting. A few passers-by suspected the elderly woman was unwell and admitted hear to a nearby private hospital, but precious 20 minutes were lost by then. She was declared dead at 1pm.
 
 Sub-inspector   of the Dattawadi police said, “None of them — the auto driver or the two-wheeler rider — took cognizance of the woman’s health. It denied her timely medical attention and she died.”
 
 The victim, Doiphode, had gone to her relatives’ place at  , off Pune-Satara Road, to attend a family function. Jadhav said, “It was not known where she was heading to after hiring the autorickshaw.”
 
 According to Jadhav, the autorickshaw ferrying Doiphode was heading towards Sarasbaug from Mitra Mandal Chowk. The two-wheeler rider was going towards Parvati from Sarasbaug. 
 
 It is suspected that Doiphode’s head might have banged against the rod of the autorickshaw in the impact of the collision and she suffered head injuries. Feeling uneasy, she sat on the footpath. But the autorickshaw driver and the motorcycle rider started a verbal duel without realising the deteriorating health of the woman.
 
 A few passers-by asked Doiphode if she was unwell. She informed them that she was feeling dizzy and they offered her water. “The passers-by took her to a private hospital near Sarasbaug, where she breathed her last,” Jadhav said.
 
 He said, “We have obtained the autorickshaw’s registration number but there are no clues about the two-wheeler rider yet.”
 
 The police have booked both, the autorickshaw driver and motorcycle rider, for rash and negligent driving, resulting into the death of the woman.
 
 
