BHOPAL: Now, passengers at   are all set to get delicious cuisines of international standard. A quality food outlet is likely to come up in the next two months as part of the   ( ) scheme of master concessionaire. 

 A team of architect and the Kanpur-based food company officials visited the airport recently to check what kind of outlets could be set up at the airport. At present, the airport has a small outlet constructed on 28 sqm area. This will be extended to 149sqm under the master concessionaire concept. 
 
 The director of Bhopal airport Flt Lft Akashdeep Mathur said the airport currently has a handful of vendors which bid separately to set up food stalls and retail outlets. "Now, there will be a single company under the master concessionaire which has won the bid. Under the agreement, it was clearly mentioned that there must be an international and a national brand associated with the bidder," said Mathur, adding, "The concessionaire will bear all capital expenditure regarding development, set-up, operation, maintenance and management of the F&B outlets." 
 
 For Bhopal airport, 8 parties had approached under the bidding process. 
 
 Under the scheme, 12 airports were selected for master concessionaire scheme. These were Bhopal, Indore, Raipur, Lucknow, Calicut, Thiruvananthapuram, Trichy, Amritsar, Bhubaneshwar, Srinagar, Guwahati and Goa. Asked about the multinational brand outlet to be set up, incharge commercial of Bhopal airport Sunil Bansod said the company will send the proposal in the next couple of days. 
 
 For the use of space on airport premises, the winning bidder will pay AAI a concession fee equivalent to the quoted monthly amount over and above the minimum monthly guarantee (MMG) with annual escalation or particular percent of fixed revenue share of the monthly net sales, stated airport officials. 
 
 Passengers have welcomed the move. "There is a just a small outlet which is not good enough. Proper food joints should be there," said a regular flyer Aruneshwar Singh Deo. 
 
 
