Nagpur: Congress corporator Bunty Shelke, who had practically avoided disconnection since November last year, will now have to go without power. SNDL has now completed the formalities to make him go without power supply unless he pays up. The disconnection will be done in a day or two. Another Congress corporator Kamlesh Chaudhari has been booked for power theft. A source in SNDL said that Shelke’s power connection was in the name of his grandfather RJ Shelke (consumer no 410011354479). “The Shelke family had not paid dues to the tune of Rs2.6 lakh and hence they were disconnected on November 22 last year. The Shelke house has another power connection in the name of Narayan Photo Studio (consumer no 410015685151), whose bills were paid regularly. Shelke quietly shifted his supply to this commercial meter,” he added. The source further said that SNDL, at first, did not understand how Shelke was enjoying electricity even after being disconnected. “Then, we found out that there was another connection in the house which was sanctioned way back in 1972. We then began the process of dues transfer on Narayan Photo Studio seeking permission from MSEDCL regarding the same. Shelke was served a notice in this regard on November 27. He did not reply,” he added. According to the source, SNDL had completed all the formalities for disconnecting Shelke and now would not wait anymore. “We will carry out the operation this week itself,” he said. A civil suit is already going on against Shelke for recovery of dues. Turning to Chaudhari’s case, he said, “The corporator owns a lawn in Futala area—DC Lakeside Garden and Lawn. Last week, our vigilance team found out that there was no power connection in the lawn. However, power was being consumed during events. We raided the premises and found out that power was being drawn illegally using a hook.” When SNDL tried to book Kamlesh Chaudhari for power theft, he claimed that he had rented the lawn two years ago to Mushtaq Ahmed and had no idea that power was being pilfered. SNDL officials asked him to produce the rent agreement, which he failed to do so. He was then booked for theft.