BHUBANESWAR: In perhaps first ever official revelation, the state government on Thursday said at least 128 kg of gold is stashed in Jagannath temple’s   ( ) that underwent a   on April 4. 

 
 Replying to BJP MLA Dilip Ray’s query in the assembly, state law minister Pratap Jena said 12831 bhari (nearly 128 kilogram) of gold ornaments studded with invaluable stones are stored in Ratna Bhandar. “We got information from the temple administration that the inventory of the valuables in Ratna Bhandar was last conducted by shrine managing committee from May 13, 1978 to July 23, 1978,” Jena said. The minister’s reply revealed that the deities do not have silver ornaments. In his reply, Jena said the Ratna Bhandar has silver utensils and other articles weighing around 221 kg. 
 
 Sources said though details of the 1978 inventory were available with temple administration and Puri district administration, the official finding was never disclosed either by the shrine authorities or district officials. Earlier, the temple administration had only revealed the date of the inventory, but refused to divulge the weight of the articles. There were also confusing reports and articles published by different writers about quantity of ornaments stored in the treasury. 
 
 However, the market price of the divine yellow metals continues to be a mystery. The minister said experts, who conducted the inventory, had not assessed the exact price of the ornaments. He also informed the assembly that inventory of 14 types of gold ornaments could not be conducted due to unknown reasons. “If we go by the existing gold price, the ornaments of the deities (128 kilogram) would fetch nearly Rs 40 crore,” a temple official said.
 
 The temple administration had in 2006 and 2014 attempted to conduct audit of the treasury. But the attempts did not materialise owing to stiff opposition from a section of servitors. The servitors had vehemently opposed the inventory plan, citing reasons that it would hurt sentiments of devotees. Similar protests were noticed when the temple administration geared up to inspect the structural stability of the Ratna Bhandar this month. Amidst protests, the shrine administration and officials of archaeological survey of India (ASI) only took stock of the structure of Ratna Bhandar, which has two chambers—inner and outer. While servitors often open the outer chamber to fetch ornaments for the deities during annual festivals, the inner chamber that is hardly used was last opened in 1985.
 
