The much anticipated festival of them all is here,  ! The festival of colours is celebrated every year with much pomp and show and is filled with excitement. This colourful festival is celebrated in every corner of the country with equal enthusiasm and in unique ways to mark the beginning of spring.

 
 
 Holi is typically timed with the moon and this year it falls on the 2nd of March. There are various theories to holi, but there two most popular ones are to do with destruction of Holika and Krishna and Radha’s love story. 
 
 The first popular notion relating to Holika also marks the win of good over evil. As per ancient records, the celebration’s name is named after Holika, the sister of demon king, Hiranyakashipu. This demon king was immortalised and hence, no power in the world could kill him in any way. 
 
  
  
 However, when Hiranyakashipu understood his superpower of never dyeing, he turned evil and started destroying everyone around this. On this knowledge, his son Prahlad, decided to kill him. But, the demon king got to know his son’s intentions of killing him and told his sister, Holika to kill Prahlad instead. 
 
 On the day which now marks as holi, Holika was meant to wear a cloak and throw Prahlad in the bonfire. But, when Holika reached the fire, the cloak flew away from her shoulders and went on Prahlad and protected him instead, burning Holika to ashes. Therefore, holi is popularly known as the win of good over evil. 
 
  
  
 As per the destruction of the demon king, Hiranyakashipu, Lord Vishnu reincarnated as Narasimha and took his powers of immortalisation away and killed him. Hence, Prahlad and Vishnu were the good who won over the demon king and Holika. This is the reason why the bonfire a day before holi is known as Holika Dahan. 
 
 
 
 The second most popular reason for celebrating holi is Krishna and Radha’s love story. As originally Krishna was born blue and had an inferiority complex when it came to Radha, Krishna would not talk to her. Krishna feared that Radha might not talk to him due to the colour difference between both of them. It was then that Krishna’s mother advised him to put colour on Radha and then they wouldn’t look different at all. 
 
  
  
 The addition of water during holi only came in later. In India there are various types of holis celebrated such as lathmar holi, hola mohalla, krishna holi, and khadi holi. All them are celebrated with colours, water and even eggs! 
 
 During holi, initially the only colour everyone played with was red (gulaal), however, in recent years, many variety of colours have come in form from silver to golden to green to yellow to paint one another. Due to the love story of Krishna and Radha, holi is also celebrated as the day of coloured love for couples. 
 
 Holi is a grand festival in the country and is always celebrated in the best manner. From Kashmir to Kerala and from Gujarat to Assam, holi is celebrated in diverse ways all throughout the country. Red colour reflects fertility, blue is the colour of Krishna, yellow is the colour of turmeric, and green symbolises the start of spring and something new. Other than this, holi is also played with flower petals like that of roses, daisies, sunflowers, and even marigolds. 
 
 “Let this Holi mark the beginning of a new you, let this holi mark the beginning of a new year!”
 
  
  
 
