CHANDIGARH: "Are you an admirer of (former Haryana chief minister and   leader)  ?" This was one of the questions that  , the complainant in Chandigarh's infamous stalking case, was asked by Vikas Barala's lawyer, Rabindra Pandit during cross-examination in the district court on Tuesday. Barala's lawyers also asked her if her father, Haryana bureaucrat V S Kundu along with advocate Rajdeep Tacoria, were in touch with Hooda. 

 Pandit also asked her if she had liked Hooda's Facebook page and whether she had connived with the media and Barala's political rivals because his father, Subhash Barala, was the Haryana BJP chief. A composed but firm Varnika denied the allegations and stated that these questions had nothing to do with the case. The prosecution lawyers too called the questions an encroachment on Varnika's privacy.
 
 She also got her statement regarding her mobile tower locations re-examined, stating that there are many "technical errors" in it. Denying that there were political motives behind accusing Vikas of stalking, she said that it was wrong to say that under pressure from her father and his IAS colleagues, the police distorted the facts of the case and fabricated evidence to involve the accused.
 
 When Varnika tried to give her statement in court about her mobile phone tower locations, the defence objected saying that the cross-examination was over. After a series of arguments between the lawyers, the court finally allowed her to make her statement. 
 
 
 
 She told the court that there were technical glitches in the locations as she was shown to be in Fatehpur village in Chamkaur Sahib in Ropar district one hour before the alleged stalking took place. Defence lawyers immediately jumped to their feet and accused her of lying.
 
 The judge then asked her how she knew there were technical errors in the tower locations. Varnika replied that in the morning on the day of the crime, her phone showed her to be in Kullu and then in Parwanoo 240 km away) in   within one hour which was not possible. On August 5, Vikas, a student of law at  , and   Kumar, a law graduate, had allegedly followed Varnika in a car and tried to stop her car. They were arrested after Varnika had called up the police.
 
 
