AHMEDABAD: According to the global study 'Global Burden of Diseases,' between 2005 and 2016, the rate of natural deaths due to ischemic heart disease in India rose by 53% whereas in the same period, unnatural deaths in the same category rose by 41%. Heart disease remained the top cause of death in both the years. 

 "Countries like India need a new approach to the problem. Earlier, a heart patient was someone in their late fifties or early sixties. Now it is not surprising to see patients as young as 25-30 years of age," said Dr  , professor of medicine at Cleveland Clinic, Abu Dhabi, on Saturday afternoon.
 
 Tuzcu, a world renowned cardiologist, was in the city for the inauguration of the Universal Healing Program (UHP) Centre at   Vidyapith. O P Kohli, Gujarat governor, was the chief guest whereas Tuzcu was guest of hounor and Ela Bhatt, chancellor of   presided over the function.
 
 Speaking to TOI, he said conventional methods of looking at treatment alternatives have to be augmented by initiatives such as UHP. "Heart problems don't arise due to a single factor and thus cannot be completely cured by a single procedure. Lifestyle is a major factor. Studies have shown that genetic factors contribute to the disease only in about 10% cases, meaning heart problems can be prevented with proper care in 90% of cases," said Tuzcu.
 
 Dr Ramesh Kapadia, a city-based cardiologist and founder of UHP, said he started the experiment in 1991 with five factors - diet counselling, walking for 30-40 minutes a day, light stretching and relaxation exercises, deep relaxation through   and meditation, and group discussion with an emphasis on sharing feelings.
 
 "It doesn't mean I don't advocate surgery. Medical intervention is a necessity but one can look at alternatives when health permits. We also don't restrict the programme to heart patients as the emphasis is also on prevention," he said, adding that in last 17 years, more than 10,000 persons have benefited from the method.
 
 
