BENGALURU: Prime Minister Narendra   and chief minister   locked horns for the second consecutive day on Wednesday: the former said the Congress government in the state was paying only “lip sympathy” to farmers in distress, and the latter sharply retorted that the BJP leader was “insensitive” to agriculturists.

 Using his personal app to connect with the party’s  , Modi asked his party workers to propagate several farmerfriendly schemes introduced by his government over the past four years.
 
 The PM charged the Siddaramaiah government with apathy towards farmers, either by not implementing schemes beneficial to them or by taking decisions detrimental to farmers’ irrigation security.
 
 Responding to a question raised by Prasanna, Kisan Morcha president for Mysuru division, Modi said: “It is a fact that the Congress has always shown lip sympathy towards farmers. They only speak of farmers in their speeches and nothing more.”
 
 Modi went on to add that with Karnataka under severe drought, the Congress government should have given assistance to farmers, created new irrigation schemes under public cooperation schemes (NREGA), created check dams to retain rain water, augmented lake capacities, attempt to create smaller bridges along rivers, and created reservoir capacities below them.
 
 “But none of this was done. Instead, somebody told me the Congress government was trying to hand over dried lakes to builders,” charged Modi.
 
 The PM was referring to a controversial order issued by the state government — and later withdrawn — with regard to denotifying dried lakes and using them for construction.
 
 “According to me, serving the annadatha (farmers) is a privilege. The Karnataka government is not interested in serving farmers but only plays politics in their name.”
 
 He said the BJP’s crop insurance, agriculture marketing and other schemes had brought about a serious change in the lives of farmers.
 
 Siddaramaiah countered the PM by citing that the Karnataka government shared 50% of the cost in premium towards the insurance of farmers, and that it was an old UPA scheme.
 
 “Sir, Govt of Karnataka paid 50% of the cost of the PM Fasal Beema (sic) Yojana. Ours is the only Govt in the country that has deployed IT to directly pay the insurance amount into farmers’ account. Also crop insurance is old UPA scheme. So, have a heart & share credit where it is due,” tweeted Siddaramaiah.
 
 The CM countered the PM in six tweets. “Really! This is rich coming from you Mr. Prime Minister. I have spoken a lot about what we have done for the farmers. But I will repeat it in this thread. I will also talk about your insensitivity to farmers.”
 
 Ater giving an “account” — including waiver of farm loans and free, assured power to farmers, of what the Congress government has done, the CM tweeted: “I asked for farm loan waiver. PM refused 2. I asked for intervention to solve Mahadayi issue. PM refused. 3. I asked for increase in Disaster Relief Fund as Karnataka gets 1750 Cr. & Maharashtra gets 8000 Cr. No reply from PM.”
 
 
