CHANDIGARH: To improve computational skills of schoolchildren, Punjab’s State Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) is resorting to the rote. 

 While directing all government   to ensure students from class VI to VIII should memorize multiplication tables at least till 20, the council has noted that “reciting the multiplication tables aloud is a time-tested practice which should be focused at”.
 
 In a communication sent to all district education officers and government school principals, SCERT has directed them to involve middle school students daily in a 5-minute recitation drill to memorize the multiplication tables. 
 
 The SCERT has observed that the tables are “very important in enhancing computational skills of students and it has been noticed that the exercise to recite multiplication tables aloud is going down day-by-day”.
 
 SCERT has ordered all the school principals and mathematics teachers to devote at least last five minutes of the last period of the day to the recitation drill. 
 
 “All the middle school students should be collectively involved in the drill to recite multiplication tables, which is an old time-tested practice,” reads the letter dated May 10. 
 
 It has also been directed that mathematics teachers should indulge students in preparing multiplication tables’ charts. 
 
 The charts and flash card can be pasted either on the first or the last page of the mathematics homework notebook, the council has suggested.
 
 A senior officer of the SCERT, who did not wish to be named, said, “When we were students, we used to memorize multiplication tables by loudly reciting them collectively in the class and we still remember those tables. But if you now ask class X students, most of them will not be able to recite even multiplication tables of 13, 14 or above.”
 
 The officer reasoned, nowadays in most of the competitive examinations a candidate is expected to solve more number of mathematical problems in lesser time and if one memorizes tables, it helps. “I agree there are various methods of developing mathematical mindset but if multiplication tables are on students’ tips, it is an asset,” he added.
 
 The state research council has also directed the schools to organize a multiplication tables’ competition on May 26 to motivate students, in which school management committee and children’s parents could also be involved.
 
 In the class X result declared by the   (PSEB) earlier this month, pass percentage in mathematics examination was 82% where out of 3,36,502 students as many as 2,76,015 made the cut. Whereas the overall pass percentage in all subjects remained 59.47%.
 
 
