Nagpur: Several students from arts and commerce streams of Kamptee-based SK Porwal College have appeared in the ongoing summer exam without any authorization from Nagpur University (NU). The college is as exam centre for its own students as well as for those from the neighborhood. The exam for BA students started on March 20 and will continue till May 17 while those for BCom were held from March 20 to April 5. Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is handling the exam section, Neeraj Khaty, the director of board of examinations and evaluation (BoEE), didn’t take TOI’s calls. The number of students too couldn’t be confirmed though the college claimed just “one or two forms were pending” only to later make it 14. The college, that was fined Rs2lakh in the last winter exam, reportedly didn’t inform the NU about these students as the malpractice came to fore only after the unauthorized answerbooks were submitted to the exam section. The NU immediately placed the case before BoEE while allowing students to appear in rest of the papers. The college principal claims these students had filled the forms but the clerk failed to forward them to the NU exam section. He also said the incident was reported to him on the first day of each exam.  The claim raises several questions as to how the students didn’t confront the college some days before exams, when hall tickets are issued. The entire affair points to larger exam-related malpractices at the college which is now under the BoEE.  In October, the exam section was compelled to generate 400 hall tickets for the college which had failed to submit exam forms till a day before winter exam. Later, the NU had imposed a fine of Rs2lakh on the college besides Rs7lakh towards late exam fee. The college had said that it had forgotten to submit exam forms of the 400 students. Till date, the NU too didn’t specify what led to the goof up. Principal Mahendra Bagde said the online exam forms couldn’t be forwarded to the exam section. He failed to explain if the forms were not filled or technical problems caused hindrance. Initially, Bagde refused to give exact number of students who were allowed to appear in the exam and later said it was “14”. He claimed that the exam section was informed before allowing the students. “I don’t remember the exact number of students. They requested us on the day of exam. The students had paid exam fee. As they produced receipts, we couldn’t say no to them. The university was informed and they were allowed to appear,” Bagde said.