In his career spanning well over a decade, Kannada actor   has had many phases of transformation. His good looks and his image as an affable lover boy got him the moniker   Prem, which he has shaken off to mold himself into an action star and, more recently, stylish star. In his endeavour, though, Prem has also been meticulous about ensuring that each of his films has something for his fans. “I have a sizeable female following, many of whom reached out to me with suggestions to have a healthy dose of romance, action and drama in my films. When director   approached me with the script of  , what struck me was that it had all the elements that my fans and I were looking for in a clean family entertainer. That was the clincher for me,” says Prem.
His character in the film, adds the actor, is an urban youth who will do anything for love. “And by love, I don’t mean only a romantic relationship. I play a guy who will go all out for the sake of his friends and other near-and-dear ones,” explains Prem, who is paired with   in Dalapathi. “Before taking up the film, I had seen only one of Kriti’s earlier works — Googly — and thought that she has a certain infectious energy. I got to experience that first-hand on the set of our film. She is a tremendous actor,” he adds.
 During the making of Dalapathi, Prem had also signed up to be a part of Tharun Sudhir’s  , a project that he dedicated two years to. “I did that movie only for friendship and the character demanded that I devote time for the physical transformations. I took six months to gain weight and another six to lose all of it and then spent a year on the actual making of the film. The response to the film, of course, is for all to see, and while it wasn’t a solo-hero project, there was enough substance in it for me,” Prem says. 
 Two years is a long time to dedicate to one project though. Is that a gamble he is willing to undertake again? “It really depends on the story and character, but if it is worth it, no doubt, I will spend time and energy on it,” asserts the actor.
 In order of release, Dalapathi, adds Prem, will be his 23rd film, with his next, Life Jotheyalli Ond Selfie, which is nearly complete, being the 24th. Ahead of his milestone 25th film, the actor is busy trying to figure out what project to take up next. “There is a plan to make a film on my life under my home banner, but I have not decided if this will be my 25th film. I will take a call soon,” says Prem.
 
 
 
