Ajmer: The Congress on Tuesday alleged that BJP government was responsible for the controversy over ‘Padmaavat’ and it did not resolve the issue just to mislead people. BJP, on the other hand, accused Congress of playing politics on the sensitive issue and said it will do what the law permits.

 Padmaavat issue has become part of the campaign for Ajmer bypolls and both parties are trying to score brownie points on it. Congress state spokesman Pratap Singh Khachariyawas on Tuesday said that BJP government has not handled the issue properly and, therefore, hurt the sentiments of people of Rajasthan. He said that BJP should have heeded when the issue was raised but now it is making a mockery of the sentiments of people.
 
 Rather than sitting quietly they should have seen what was wrong in the movie to satisfy the people. It is the duty of the government to see that sentiments of the people are not hurt and emphasised that Padmaavat should not be seen in the state, he added.
 
 On the other hand, Union minister of state for law and justice and ministry of corporate affairs P P Choudhary told media that the state government will again file a petition in the Supreme Court to make it aware that the movie can hurt the sentiments of people here. When asked if BJP government in Rajasthan will allow the movie to run, he said government will do what the law permits. Choudhary ducked a question on police not booking a youth who climbed a tower in Bhilwara a day earlier and said that state government was discussing the matter.
 
 After Supreme Court turned down the petition of Rajasthan government on screening the film, BJP leaders said that the government was looking at other options.
 
 Meanwhile, the movie is influencing the campaign for Ajmer bypolls as members of Rajput community are angry with BJP. Sources said that if the movie releases here on January 25, there will be wave of negativity in the Rajput community at a time when BJP is trying to retain the old vote bank of Rajputs in bypolls.
 
 The issue is also affecting the campaign in Mandalgarh.
 
 
