 is a tag line that had caught the imagination of audiences like never before when it aired in early 2000. There was an entire generation that grew up on the humourous banter of Pacho and Pandu. And just in case you missed this light-hearted soap amidst all the heavy drama that has dominated the television scene, here’s some reason to cheer. 
Paapa Pandu is set to make its return soon and will once more feature the popular characters of Pachu and Pandu, which will be essayed by   and Chidanand, who were previously associated with the show. The sitcom will also mark the comeback of veteran actor and acclaimed television personality   to small screen as a director. 
 “Paapa Pandu wrapped up years ago, but to this day, wherever I go, people never fail to ask me, ‘Sir,   matthe Paapa Pandu thara yavaga serial madtira? Tumba miss madkotivi adanna’. I’m surprised that people continue to talk about Paapa Pandu even today with such fondness that it’s both gratifying and humbling at the same time,” shares Chandru. He shares how during recent discussions with a channel, one of the ideas that was floated was a sitcom along the lines of Paapa Pandu. “And then the channel said, why not make Paapa Pandu itself? And while at it, also retain the same title? I, too, was more than happy to agree with this concept and the deal was sealed then and there,” says an elated Chandru. 
 The serial, which was about Pacho and Pandu and their endearing funny banter will now return in a bigger and better avatar, he points out. “Back then, Pacho and Pandu were a young couple with a little boy. Now, this son is married and there’s an addition to the family in the form of a daughter-in-law. So while the daughter-in-law wants to have control on her young husband, Pacho continues to have control over both her husband and son. The son, thus, is torn between his wife and mother. So the scope of the storyline is really vast,” smiles Chandru. 
 But back in early 2000, when the serial first came, TV wasn’t dominated by the kind of advanced content it is seeing today. Where does he see Paapa Pandu fit in the current scenario? “Of course, the serial will be updated, both in terms of content and format. Paapa Pandu set a trend in television back then and will aim to do so now, too. Also, the content on small screen may have changed, but the sentiment of the average Kannadiga remains the same. The kids who grew up on the serial are today young parents themselves and the parents of that generation continue to be nostalgic of the programme. Moreover, in the fiction segment, people want to see such clean, family-oriented programmes, so we will be catering to this audience who are craving to watch the content we have to offer,” observes Chandru. 
 Since he wrapped helming Paapa Pandu back then, Chandru has gone on to do more movies, dabbled in radio, hosted cookery shows, kickstarted a production house, done lots of theatre and even turned entrepreneur with a food brand. 
 Now, he’s set to take up the baton of a director on the small screen yet again. “It’s like returning home. World tour mugskondu bandu, maneli anna saaru tinno majane bere; it’s like that. Television is my foundation and forte. I couldn’t be more happier than coming into its fold and taking up from where I left,” states a grateful Chandru. 
 
