Nagpur: The anti-corruption wing of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a case against a cotton trader, his wife and brother for allegedly duping Bank of Baroda (BoB) to the tune of Rs 5.5 crore.

 The trio, in connivance with unidentified officials of BoB, fraudulently furnished documents of faulty titles to procure loans.
 
 The trio has been booked for cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy, criminal misconduct and other charges.
 
 The persons named in the offence are Sudhakar Kakad, proprietor of M/s Shiv Traders, his wife Chandatai and brother Vinayak, who took a loan of Rs 4 crore in 2011 and sought to top it up by Rs 1.5 crore a year later.
 
 The loan amount was disbursed through BoB’s Achalpur branch in Amravati after the regional office in Nagpur cleared the proposal. The offence was registered following a report from the deputy general manager of BoB, Dharampeth office.
 
 It’s learnt that the Kakad family had earlier procured a loan of Rs 2.5 crore procured from UCO Bank. The family later approached BoB to take over the existing loan from UCO bank, apart from additionally furnish Rs 1.5 crore as top-up in 2011. The Kakad family had furnished mortgaged documents of four different properties located at Achalgaon to the bank.
 
 As per the CBI FIR, the empanelled advocates of BoB too had issued a clearance of title in 2011 and later in 2012. It was later found that the titles had been unsuitable for mortgages as they were already sold in 2001.
 
 The four properties, attempted to be given in mortgage against the first loan of Rs 4 crore, had been already sold to the Chore family in 2001.
 
 The property, given in mortgage against the top-up of Rs 1.5 crore, was masqueraded as ‘non-agricultural’ land which too had been cleared by the empanelled advocates. Later, the bank, through the revenue department, found out that the property was still categorized as ‘non-commercial agricultural’ land. 
 
 Following the discoveries of the relevant facts, CBI registered an offence under SP Vijeyandra Bidari.
 
 
