PUNE: In a freak accident, two men were killed and a third seriously injured after the open door of the air-conditioning compartment of a Pune-Mumbai Shivneri bus hit them at a stop in Khadki along the Pune-Mumbai road around 8.30pm on Sunday.

 Khadki police said the hydraulic door opened automatically after the bus hit a speed bump barely 50 metres before the accident spot. As it was passing the bus stop, the open door hit the three men standing there. Two of them—Deepak Sorte (54) of   and   (62) of Khadki—sustained serious head injuries. The third, George Ashirwadan (51) of Kasarwadi, was hit in the chest.
 
 Victims had returned from Sunday church prayers. Passersby called up the police who rushed to the accident spot and shifted the victims to Sassoon hospital where the medical authorities declared Sorte and Ashirwadan brought dead. Swami is being treated at the hospital. The police have arrested the bus driver, Santosh Madane (32), of Karad in Satara district for rash and  
 
 Sub-inspector S B Bhosale of the Khadki police said Ashirwadan was working with the Ammunition Factory, Khadki (AFK) while Sorte and Swami had retired from the defence establishment. “Ashirwadan and Sorte had visited a church on Tadiwala road for Sunday prayers following which they met Swami in the same area,” he said. Bhosale said the three men had got down at the Raja Bungalow stop near Sarvatra Vihar colony in Khadki. “They were chatting along the road when the door of the bus hit them. All three suffered serious head injuries while Ashirwadan was also injured in the chest. Swami has sustained multiple fractures,” he said.
 
 Sub-inspector   said the bus has a luggage and an AC compartment on its side. “The doors of these compartments are hydraulic-assisted. There was some fault in the door lock which covers the AC machine on the left side of the bus. After the bus went over a bump, the door opened and stayed parallel to the ground due to the hydraulic mechanism,” he said. MSRTC’s divisional controller   said, “The first information report in the case has been submitted by the depot manager. It has held the driver to be at fault. We have forwarded the case to the mechanical engineer for a technical probe.”
 
