AHMEDABAD:   government launched a roadshow in   on Thursday to promote UP as a business-friendly investment destination. The UP government will be hosting an investors’ summit in the last week of February and is looking forward to sizeable participation from Gujarat’s industrial houses and entrepreneurs.

 Deputy chief minister of UP, Dr  , who was present at the  , said, “Unlike earlier times when UP was infamous for corruption and crime, the state is now moving on the path of development.”
 
 Sharma was speaking on the sidelines of the roadshow for UP Investors Summit 2018. Sharma added, “The new government wants to create a conducive environment for development and on the same lines, various policy-level changes have also been brought about.”
 
 Lauding the current establishment in UP, Sharma said, “Our government has zero tolerance towards crime and corruption, and now, it is a fear free environment for investors. Our new industrial policy will encourage investments as well as Ease of Doing Business (EoDB) in the state.” 
 
 The UP government is eyeing big investments from Gujarat’s businesses, especially from the textile and pharmaceuticals sector.
 
 “Textile and pharma are thriving industries of Gujarat and have a huge potential. Many of them are looking for expansion and we are confident of our capacity to provide the same in Uttar Pradesh,” said Satish Mahana, UP industries minister..
 
 Sharma said that the focus of the summit will be development of underdeveloped regions of the state. Sectors such as logistics, information technology, dairy industry and tourism are also being looked at for an exchange of resource and expertise with Gujarat.
 
 “We also want to promote the state’s rich heritage of culture, religious and eco-tourism aspects,” said Sharma.
 
 The event will focus on 14 key sectors such as pharma, electronics, IT, MSMEs textiles, dairy and logistics among others. “The focus will be to generate employment for the state and create a conducive business environment to attract more investments,” said Dr Anup Chandra Pandey, commissioner, infrastructure and industrial development, UP.
 
 
