Nagpur: It’s been five months since the swanky Kavivar   auditorium opened to the public. Though it has awed the audience, many organizers of cultural events still term it prohibitive in terms of cost and its huge seating capacity.

 The auditorium, which opened on November 10 with an event organized by Matru Seva Sangh, has so far hosted 70 programmes. This includes five-day Kalidas Mahotsav organized by the district administration and various government awareness programmes. In comparison, most other auditoriums in the city continued to thrive with almost double the number of events including plays, musical concerts and dance recitals.
 
 “We get a lot of inquiries every day but most shy away when they see our seating capacity,” says Harshal Bhat, sports and cultural officer at NMC. Bhat auditorium has three options for seating, 1300, 1600 and 2000. “The crowds that come for shows held by local organizations is barely 400 which is about the capacity of most of the other halls,” Bhat says.
 
 Organizations like Saptak, which have a full calendar round the year, too have not selected Bhat auditorium as a venue so far. “We will need to hold an event at a very grand scale to get an audience large enough to justify the venue,” says Vilas Mankar, founder member of Saptak. “We don’t even consider Deshpande hall for many of our classical music programme as we know the audience will not exceed 300,” he adds.
 
 “It is not just the capacity but cost of hiring is also very high,” says theatre director Rupesh Pawar, who had organized a three-day Hindi drama festival last weekend. Though Union minister Nitin Gadkari had announced that the auditorium would be available for Rs 5,000 for charitable and non-ticketed shows, Pawar says there is a catch to it. “These slots are given in the morning and afternoon on weekdays when we will not get an audience,” he says.
 
 Suresh Bhat auditorium has four time slots of three hour duration starting at 8.30am to 11.30am, 12.30pm to 3.30pm, 4.30pm to 7.30pm and 8.30pm to 11.30pm. It can be hired for a minimum of Rs 5,000 and maximum at Rs 75,000.
 
 “We avoid the weekend and evening slots for Rs 5,000 segment but if there is no commercial booking, we can give the afternoon slot on weekend at three times the cost. Our charges include parking, lights, sound system and air-conditioning and we have feedback from people who find the rates very reasonable. Besides, there is a maintenance cost which has to be recovered,” he adds.
 
 The monthly maintenance of the auditorium costs NMC Rs 13 lakh and has been outsourced to a private housekeeping agency by its PWD department. “It includes upkeep of all systems in the auditorium and security, cleanliness, maintenance of garden,” informs Bhat. “These are early days and we hope the bookings will go up from July. We are getting lots of inquiries from Delhi and Mumbai,” he adds.
 
 
