Nagpur: Integrated farming based on animal husbandry, dairy and fishery (ADF) can not only prevent farmer suicides but also double their income, said Mahadev Jankar, Maharashtra minister for  .

 Jankar was speaking at the inaugural function of a daylong workshop on ‘Doubling the income of farmers through sustainable, innovative livestock farming’, organized by Nagpur Veterinary College (NVC), on Friday.
 
 The minister later told TOI that Maharashtra animal husbandry department had bagged the first position under   from among all the states in the country. He proposed a scheme of developing at least 1,000 entrepreneurs who will be engaged in ADF.
 
 The state was honoured at a function on Friday. Jankar said that it was remarkable that when all the sate corporations are in losses, the Maharashtra ADF corporation earned a profit of Rs41 crore. Ahilyabai Holkar Sheep and Goat Corporation also earned Rs14 crore. The ADF department is planning to distribute 389 animal ambulances and set up a milk powder plant at a cost of Rs40 crore. The government is also providing dry powdered milk to women and children in aanganwadis, he added.
 
 In his address, vice-chancellor of   (Mafsu) Ashish Paturkar spoke on strategies to double farmers’ income. He said that besides ADF, poultry and goatry also bring regular income to farmers. He said agriculture alone cannot help farmers survive the vagaries of nature as well as the huge investment that goes into cultivation. Farmers rarely earn profit from agriculture, but milk, eggs and fish bring them daily income and help sustain agriculture.
 
 The VC listed some of the new projects that are in the offing. He said two new veterinary colleges are coming up at Jalgaon and Akola. Three agriculture science centres are also coming up; one each at Mul in Chandrapur district, Dudhburdi village in Kalmeshwar tehsil and Kadegaon in  .
 
 ADF secretary KV Kurundkar, Dr NN Zade, associate dean, NVC, Dr AP Somkuwar, director extension and training, Dr VK Basuthane, organizing secretary, Dr Shahji Fund, Dr Nitin Markandya, Maithili Kove of Nabard, Shailesh Madane, Dr Ashwin Meshram, Dr AS Bannalikar, director research and associate dean of animal husbandry, and Dr Atul Dhok also spoke.
 
 
