As the Swedish Super Troupers get together to sing again, Sunday Times revisits a forgotten album of Hindi covers of their top hits

 
 In 1981, a year before Swedish pop group   broke up, a group of Indians got together to release an unusual album — Hindi versions of their biggest hits. The songs were sung by two teenagers, Sabina and  , and went on to become one of the few non-film albums to be played on Ameen Sayani’s Binaca Geetmala.
 
 Titled ‘Salma and Sabina Agha Sing the Hits of ABBA in Hindi’, the album was a unique experiment and a precursor to the Indipop revolution of the 1990s. “It was a trendsetter. All the other Indian pop albums came afterwards,” recalls the hazel-eyed Salma, who later starred in B R Chopra’s hit film,  .
 
 It was the brainchild of London-based Pran Gohil, founder of British-Asian music label Multitone, who wanted to do a series of Hindi covers of western musicians for the Indian market. Amit Khanna, a lyricist and executive producer with Dev Anand’s Navketan Films, was commissioned to write original lyrics for the first album, Boney M in Hindi. 
 
 ABBA, which had dominated the last decade with catchy numbers such as Dancing Queen,   and Super Trouper, was an obvious choice for the second. After Gohil bought the rights of the original tracks, Khanna suggested the Agha sisters, having worked with Salma for a film titled Naya Johnny, which was never released despite its star-studded cast of Dev Anand, Hema Malini and Shammi Kapoor.
 
 Salma, who was studying in a school in London’s Hampstead, says the novelty of the proposal excited her. “It was such a popular group at the time in the UK,” recalls the actor, now based in Mumbai. “Songs such as Mamma Mia were already my favourites.” The Agha sisters were trained in Hindustani classical music, and Salma had already sung for BBC London and recorded an album of ghazals penned by her mother Zarina Agha.
 
 The eight-track album was arranged and recorded in one hectic week. “I remember we worked very hard,” says Salma. Instead of imitating ABBA’s style, the sisters gave their own girlish rendition of the popular melodies. The lyrics are in Hindi, but share the earworm quality of the original. 
 
 So Dancing Queen became Meetha Mazedar, Mamma Mia turned into  , and Money Money Money into Kabhi Kabhi. The playful lyrics speak of the headiness of first love, a lovers’ tiff, separation and yearning, and the thrill of romantic encounters. They also have elements that are uniquely Indian: young love and the fear of social disapproval. Barring a couple of pensive numbers, most of the songs are peppy and fast-paced.
 
 For Khanna, then 30, it was an opportunity to break the mould. “I was one of the first to mix Hindi, Urdu and Hindustani,” says Khanna, who has also worked with disco and Indian pop icon Biddu. “It was tough because the structure of a pop or rock song 
 is distinct from that of a conventional Hindi film song,” Khanna says. “I was able to work on it only because I was familiar with western pop, so my language was idiomatic and contemporary.”
 
 The album was a trendsetter in terms of its contemporary lyrics. Khanna quotes the opening lines of Toba Toba, the cover of Mamma Mia: “Unse mile us din jab lift phansi, meri ankhon main ansoo the, unke hothon par hansi. Mach gaya shor…. Koi bola ladki 14 number wali hai, koi bola ladki ki to gaadi kaali hai. This kind of freewheeling modern poetry was unusual for those days,” he recalls.
 
 Though Khanna and Salma didn’t meet ABBA, the Swedish quartet did hear the Indian version and appreciated it. “They said they’ve been sung so well that it doesn’t seem like they’re in another language,” recalls Salma.
 
 In 1982, ABBA split up and stopped recording together. Gohil followed the ABBA album with a cover of disco star Donna Summer, and eventually sold Multitone to branch off into consumer electronics. The same year, Salma kickstarted her film career with Nikaah, winning a Filmfare award for best female playback singer for the song Dil Ke Armaan Aansuo Me Bah Gaye and a nomination for acting. Her disco numbers as well as ghazals with Mehdi Hasan were popular with music buffs.
 
 Though the original album is hard to find, the tracks continue to play on YouTube and are occasionally sung live by Salma. “I personally like these songs very much,” she says. “My daughter Sasha performs them, and sometimes with the right crowd, I sing them as well.”
 
