Trichy: Walking is healthy but it could at the same time be risky if you walk over the pedestrian platforms in the city at ease. At least half-a-dozen lengthy pedestrian platforms placed over drains bordering major roads here have either broken slabs or vacant space which is a threat to pedestrians if they are not careful. In the last two years, Trichy Corporation had sanctioned close to Rs2.8 crore for establishing pedestrian platform cum covered storm water drain. Yet a majority of the pavements in the city still dwells unsafe.

 With the underground drainage system (UGDS) for the city being implemented in a phased manner to cover all the 65 wards of the civic body, Trichy city sprawling on 167.2 sq km heavily depends on the storm water drainage canals to evade deluge. The open drainage canals apart from serving the purpose to drain the flood water (even drainage and sullage at several stretches) to Uyyakondan and other water bodies also serve as platform for pedestrians to navigate along the roads. Ironically, the purpose is only partially solved. Right from the Royals Road close to the central bus stand, such unsafe pedestrian platforms in patches with craters and protruding steel rods can be spotted all the way till Salai Road. “Governments through awareness drives have been insisting that the public to prefer cycle or walk to conserve fossil fuel and prevent carbon emissions. But the same governments fail miserably in ensuring adequate infrastructure for an eco-friendly travel such as walking and cycling,” S Kannabiran, senior citizen from Cantonment said.
 
 Even the Bharathidasan Salai that houses Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) has faulty RCC slabs on the pedestrian platform. Patients and attenders said that they prefer to walk over the main road during night in the midst of traffic. Situation is far worst in Thennur High Road, which connects Bharathidasan Salai with Thillai Nagar, the two major localities where 50% of the hospitals and clinics in the city are located. “Pedestrian platform in Thennur High Road is the same for the past five years. We have never seen the civic body renovating the pedestrian platform. If quality materials are used in making platform slabs, why would they crumble in short span?” questions, A Khadar Mohideen, resident of Vamadam. The faulty pedestrian platform doesn’t only cause inconvenience to those prefer walk, but for drivers and riders on road as they had to be extra cautious in not mowing down the pedestrians.
 
 Bad infrastructure for pedestrians also signals a wrong image among the visitors to the city, say social workers. When contacted, a senior official with civic body here said that pedestrian platforms are being renovated near the district court. “Soon we will renovate the other damaged portions,” the official added.
 
 
