PATIALA: Giving more credence to the police theory that there had been negligence on the part of the father of the 18-year-old boy, who had shot his school principal on January 21 in  , a video showing him indulging in celebratory firing has now gone viral.

 The video that was shared on social messaging apps shows the boy dancing along with his father at a pre-wedding ceremony during which the latter fired several rounds in the air in violation of a prohibitory order that bans carrying of arms at wedding functions. This order is in force in   since December 2016.
 
 In the video, the boy is also seen having a good time as his father fires in the air and asking him to fires more shots in the air while they dance on a Punjabi song.
 
 Immediately after the incident on January 21, the district cops had booked the boy’s father for violations of the Arms Act. During his interrogation, the father maintained that he had kept the revolver empty and safely locked inside an almirah at his house.
 
 However, the police investigators found that the boy had easy access to his father’s revolver, which he had taken out on Saturday and used the same to kill his principal. The police said they have received unconfirmed reports that earlier also, the boy would at times take out his father’s revolver and open fire in the air.
 
 Yamunanagar superintendent of police (SP) Rajesh Kalia said they have already booked the father under the violation of the Arms Act.
 
 Meanwhile, the father-son duo is now in judicial custody and has been kept in the same barrack inside the jail. According to the sources, the boy repeatedly breaks down before his father asking him questions as to what would be his future now. The sources said the boy did not like the food that was being served to him inside the jail.
 
 Box: Father’s bail plea dismissed
 
 The Yamunanagar district court on Thursday dismissed the bail application moved by the father of the 18-year-old boy. The father had been booked by the district police immediately after the incident under various sections of the Arms Act.
 
 
