NEW DELHI: If it wasn’t for the sheer insensibility of it all, 55-year-old   would perhaps have managed to save some money and marry off his third daughter as he had done his older two daughters. He had quit a government job recently since he felt he could earn more in a private assignment. Just two months into his new job as a chowkidar at a scrap yard, his dreams came to a brutal end early on Tuesday morning.

 Sitaram was one of Naresh Dhankar’s six victims. He had been reading a newspaper when the ex-army man bludgeoned him to death. “He was the only earning member of the family and agreed to work for scrap dealer Jagan Seth, who paid him Rs 10,000 per month,” said Charan Singh, Sitaram’s nephew, who had come to collect the body from the  .
 
 The chowkidar’s death has left the family in a shambles. The two married daughters stayed with him after a dispute with their husbands. He had two other daughters and two sons. They have no one to take care of their financial needs now.
 
 Life came to a stop-still for the family of Khemchand, 49, too. It had just been four months since Khemchand had begun working as a security officer at a ghee factory in Faridabad. Assured of a better income, he had admitted his son to a private school. “We won’t be able to afford his studies there,” said Rajesh, brother of the deceased. “We will move the child to a government school.”
 
 Khemchand was on his way to work when he ran into Dhankar. “A Haryana Police ASI from Palwal City police station was able to identify Khemchand from his shirt and called us. His face was completely damaged,” said Babbal Singh, a relative of the dead man.
 
 Anjum, 35, too was as brutally attacked even though she was visibly pregnant. She was at the Palwal City Hospital attending to her sister-in-law, who had recently given birth to a baby, when she became Dhankar’s first victim on Tuesday. “I was on the ground floor of the hospital with my brother when we heard her call for help and rushed up,” said Shaukat, Anjum’s shocked nephew. “She was lying face down on the steps, her head smashed with an iron rod.”
 
 Some nurses and security guards appeared on the scene, but the killer threatened them with the rod and escape into the washroom near the ICU. Some time later, he stormed out again, advancing threateningly on anyone trying to stop him before fleeing. “If someone had managed to stop him then, the others would not have lost their lives,” said Shaukat, before he hurried to the ICU, where Anjum’s husband was admitted after suffering a heart attack on hearing of his wife’s killing.
 
 Family members of Munshiram, 50, another unfortunate victim, plan to block the Sohna-Palwal road if his family was not granted compensation. Witnesses said Munshiram had pushed his cycle at Dhankar to knock him down, but the killer had dodged it and attacked the guard. His grieving son   claimed, “There were seven security guards armed with lathis and workers from a nearby scrap shop who fled when Dhankar threatened them.”
 
 
