BENGALURU: With bids made by private companies being 65% to 75% higher that the initial estimates for the crucial underground stretch between Dairy Circle to Nagawara of Metro Phase 2 project, the   ( ) is caught in a dilemma, whether to negotiate with the bidders or invite new tenders. 

 Either way, the process is likely to delay commencement of the project by at least four months. Moreover, the higher quotes by the bidders have raised questions about the source of funds and financial implications pertaining to the project. Initially, the deadline set for Metro Phase 2 was 2020 and later it got revised to 2022.
 
 
 
  
 
 Four infrastructure firms have emerged as the lowest bidders for the underground network. But the total value (if all four bids are added) is about 65% to 75% higher than the BMRCL’s estimate of Rs 5,047 crore. Larsen & Toubro, Gulermak, Afcons Infrastructure and Italian-Thai Development have offered a package each on the 14km (approximate) Dairy Circle–Nagawara underground section of Metro’s 21-km line-4 (Reach 6) of the 72-km project. Bids for this stretch’s civil works, called in June 2017, were opened on Friday. 
 
  “The lowest bids received by BMRCL amount to Rs 8,553 crore. The amount which will be “lost” if the lowest bids are accepted works out to Rs 3,505 crore. The momentum of “losing” thousands of crores is picking up. Bengalureans were told BMRCL will go to any length to “save” money. Who will answer for the thousands of crores which will be lost now?”  , a Vasant Nagar resident, posted on Facebook.
 
 When TOI asked about the next step, BMRCL MD Mahendra Jain said: “Too early to say. We will plan and strategize.” 
 
 “ The process of awarding the project to the bidder is not complete. The bids will now undergo scrutiny by the evaluation committee. Only after that the letter of acceptance will be issued to companies, followed by signing of the agreement. If the bidders, who have quoted the lowest rates get disqualified or if the BMRCL decides not to go with the quotations, they may float tenders again or break the existing project into different packages,” said a BMRCL official. 
 
 
