THANE: The Thane district sessions court recently sentenced a 33-year-old Vartak Nagar resident to   until death after his children, aged 11 and eight, testified against him for the 2014 murder of their mother. Lawyers here said it is not often that the   of children has been used to nail one parent for the murder of the other.

 Sessions Judge S C Khalipe held Sadaphal Yadav guilty for the murder of his wife Usha (28), said additional public prosecutor Vandana Jadhav. 
 
 The couple married 15 years ago. “When his younger brother got married, the Yadav family received a fat dowry. Soon, Usha was subjected to harrassment and torture for failing to get more money. Tired of the regular physical and mental abuse, Usha lodged a complaint with the NGO Human and   at Dharavi against her husband and her in-laws. The family assured the NGO that they would not harass her henceforth and asked her to withdraw her complaint,” the prosecutor told the court.
 
 After they returned home that day, though, Usha’s ordeal only intensified. Her in-laws denied her food and did not allow her to contact her parents. 
 
 “The accused would beat her black and blue and other in-laws would instigate him to kill her by throwing acid on her. As her children were young, she did not wish to lodge a police complaint and just hoped that things would improve over time,” said the prosecutor.
 
 On June 23, 2014, though, Yadav strangulated her with a saree in front of their children. He then hung her body from a ceiling fan to fake a suicide.
 
 The children told cops about what had transpired that day. Usha’s post-mortem reports, too, proved that she had been strangulated. On learning of the report, Yadav fled to his native place in Sonvara in the   district of Uttar Pradesh, but was arrested and brought back to stand trial.
 
 The Judge, in her order, observed that the deceased’s children deposed that their father would often beat their mother. They said he would not give her money to buy their school books and stationery. They also said he would not accept water or food from their mother. “It reveals his conduct towards their mother,” said the Judge. Her four in-laws was acquitted due lack of conclusive evidence.
 
 
