AHMEDABAD: A   has lodged an   against a  ,  , a resident of Vatva, that he has been blackmailing her for the past 10 months by threatening to make her nude video viral on social media.

 The woman has also claimed that Patel forced her into bathroom of her house, stripped her of clothes and recorded a video. She said Kamlesh and his wife Kintu have been blackmailing her. “The complainant has claimed that the couple has already extorted about Rs 5 lakh from her,” said inspector B J Sarvaiya of Vatva police station.
 
 According to the FIR lodged by the woman in her thirties, she is a mother of a ten-year-old son studying in a local school who used to take tuition from Patel. The woman’s husband has been working in Saudi Arabia for the past 10 years and visits India once a year.
 
 “First the complainant’s son used to go to Patel’s house but later Patel used to come to her house to give tuitions. Meanwhile, Patel’s wife also started coming along and both the families developed good ties. They also used to go for outing together,” said Sarviaya.
 
 The FIR mentions that after the woman’s husband left for Saudi Arabia in May 2017 after one of his visits, Kamlesh, finding her alone at the house, would come down. “He allegedly used to say that he loves her and wants to stay with her but, according to the complainant, as she kept on denying he used to go away,” added a police official.
 
 Recently, Patel came to her house and forcibly took her into the bathroom. “He allegedly stripped the woman of her clothes and also took off his clothes. But as the woman started shouting, he quickly put on his clothes and went away,” said a police source.
 
 The next day, Patel returned and showed her the video he had shot in the bathroom and started blackmailing her. The woman also succumbed to his demands and gave him a total of about Rs 5 lakh until her husband came back in February. The woman narrated the incident to him.
 
 “They tried to strike a compromise too but as Patel showed them the video, the talks fell apart. They then decided to lodge a complaint against Patel and his wife Kintu. The accused have fled locking their house,” said Sarvaiya.
 
 
