NEW DELHI:   (RIL) reported 39 percent of year-on-year increase in profit to Rs 1.29 trillion and around 17 percent growth in net profit to Rs 9,435 crore.

 Various segments of the company gave out mixed performances. The refining section let down with a total margin of 11 dollars per barrel, which was much lower than the estimations made by market analysts. On the contrary, the petrochemicals section boasted of profit increasing 87 percent year-on-year. Retail business of the organized sector jumped surprisingly with the segment profit going up by a whopping 291 percent to Rs 951 crore.
 
 Despite this, the investors who take cues of the fortunes of Reliance Jio Infocomm Ltd are likely to be disappointed. Primarily, the revenue growth of Reliance Jio slowed to 3.6 percent in the previous quarter, which was lower than the 11.9 percent sequential growth it had posted in the December quarter. This is set to come as a matter of worry to the telecom brand because the longer Jio takes to achieve its profit share targets, the longer the struggles of the sector may go on. Fierce pricing has pushed other telcos to losses, despite resulting in huge debt.
 
 Another matter of concern is that Jio posted capital expenditure of Rs 14,000 crore for the fourth quarter, far more than the Rs 7,000 crore it had reported in the previous two quarters. Telecom giants, such as   is far behind in their 4G coverage because of balance sheet constraints, and Jio’s aggression in terms of capital expenditure means it will be leading in the competition in terms of coverage. Even after this, Jio has spent Rs 28,000 crore on capital expenditure in the last three quarters, as compared to the revenue of Rs 20,154 crore. 
 
 After incurring interest and operating expenses of another Rs 15,000 crore, it burnt over Rs 23,000 crore in merely past three quarters. The capex is likely to be high, since it plans to increase the number of base stations substantially as compared to current levels. Acquiring Reliance Communications Ltd’s assets will only end up in adding on to the tally.
 
 The tariff reduction announced by Jio in January affected its own revenues as well. Even then, because of the huge subscriber additions and the manner in which the company constitutes its Prime membership, some analysts had anticipated growth to remain high. Brokerage firm, Motilal Oswal Securities had estimated revenue growth of 10 percent for Jio. The firm has been reporting for revenues from sales of its Prime membership, considering its benefits will end by March 2018. As such, for memberships sold in the fourth quarter, the entire Rs 99 for the membership was likely to be accounted for. Since the revenue growth was under 4 percent despite this boost and a 17 percent jump in subscriber base is a restraining. 
 
