GURUGRAM:   has entered the ‘very poor’ level in Gurugram in the last 48 hours, as   increased due to dust storm conditions in neighbouring areas. 

 While the highest level of   was 191 µg/m³ on Thursday, it was 208 µg/m³ on Wednesday. This compared to highs of 106 µg/m³ and 110 µg/m³ on Sunday and Monday.
 
  
  
 
 Air quality index (AQI) remained in the ‘very poor’ range over the last 24 hours, with AQI reported at 300 and 336 on Thursday and Wednesday. The city also reported the second highest AQI in the NCR region. 
 
 Only   has reported AQI above Gurugram. Delhi, Faridabad and Noida reported 252, 253 and 298, respectively, which are in the ‘poor’ range.
 
 Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) officials held forest fires in   and a rise in wind speed due to dust storm conditions responsible for the deterioration. 
 
 “With a dust storm expected to hit the city soon, we’re witnessing an increase in wind speed. This, coupled with forest fires in Uttarakhand, has led to an increase in the concentration of particulate matter. That’s why there’s an increase in the PM level for a couple of days, followed by few days when the PM concentration settles down,” said a HSPCB official.
 
 According to experts, this year is witnessing a different trend from previous years, what with air pollution levels, which generally come down during summers, still at a record high. 
 
 “Generally, as the heat rises, we see a fall in concentration of particulate matter. However, this year, the levels of PM2.5 are continuously going up. Dust storm conditions and now forest fires in Uttarakhand are two major factors behind this,” said Lalit Jha, former professor, department of environmental studies, Delhi University.
 
 Last week, HSPCB issued an advisory to all civic authorities to take requisite measures in case air pollution in the city rises any further. While Thursday witnessed a slight rise in humidity, with cloud formations in the morning, a dust storm, followed by a thunderstorm, is expected early in the morning on Friday. 
 
 The average maximum temperature was recorded at 43°C on Thursday, and is likely to go up by 1-2 notches on Friday.
 
 
