BENGALURU: Officials of the Special Investigation Team, probing the  , suspect the Maddur gunrunner arrested last week may have ferried the killer to her house on September 5, 2017, and said they're awaiting forensic confirmation before proceeding against him. 

    T alias Hotte Manja, 38, a resident of Maddur, Mandya district, was picked up from the KSRTC bus stand in Majestic area in Bengaluru with a .32-calibre gun and 15 live bullets. He's denying involvement in the killing. 
 
 Claiming to have made substantial progress in the case, SIT sources said they have readied the sketch of the suspected killer. "He was part of a four-member team from a rightwing organisation based outside  ," a source said.
 
 Naveen, said to be running an outfit called Hindu Yuva Sena and currently in SIT custody, was trying to sell the gun when he was arrested. SIT sources said CCTV footage collected near Gauri's house pointed to Naveen's role.
 
 "We've video footage of a man riding the bike near Gauri's place, on September 3 and 5, for what's clearly a recce. He's wearing a full-face helmet but his nose is visible. We recreated the scene with Naveen on a similar bike. Everything - from his posture on the bike to the way he rides to the nose - perfectly matches with CCTV footage. We're waiting for forensic confirmation of our recreated images before proceeding against him. The bike, another crucial link, is eluding us," the source explained.
 
 "We have enough evidence to establish his presence in RR Nagar on September 3 and 5," the source said,adding they're confident of a making a breakthrough in the case within a week. According to police, Naveen on September 5 night returned with the shooter.
 
 "Naveen admits only to harbouring four individuals from a rightwing organization. We have drawn their sketches based on his description. We are sure one of them, a man with receding hairline killed Gauri," SIT officials said.
 
  Kalburgi killer 
 
 The sketch of the suspect who gunned down   Lankesh matches the description of the man who killed scholar MM Kalburgi in 2015 in Dharwad, SIT officials said. " 's family said the person in the sketch of Gauri killer we had prepared based on Naveen Kumar's description resembles the man who killed him," an official said.
 
 Ballistics examination confirmed that the gun used to kill Gauri was used in the murders of scholar MM Kalburgi, CPI leader Govind Pansare in Kolhapur in 2015 and rationalist Narendra Dabholkar in Pune in 2013.
 
 
