NAGPUR: Maharashtra government has on Monday finally given a go ahead to the diversion of 467.5 hectares of reserved forest land for cement plant of the Anil   Group proposed to be set up in   tehsil of Yavatmal district.

 M/s   Cementation Pvt Ltd had been pursuing the project for setting up the plant and initially got support from the then Congress chief minister   in 2009. The application seeking diversion of the ‘C class’ forest reserved under Forest Conservation Act, 1980, was officially moved in May 2011.
 
 The state gave its nod in April 2012 and the matter was forwarded to the Union government. As per the GR issued on Monday, the Union ministry for forest, environment and climate change gave its in-principle approval in December 2012.
 
 The area is close to Mukutban which has reported presence of a breeding tiger. Though this forest land, located in three villages — Pimparadwad, Hirapur and Govindpur — is at least 60km away from Tipeshwar wildlife sanctuary, presence of tiger in the area could trigger protests from environment activists. The Congress was in power, both at the state and Centre, when the proposal was moved and got initial clearances.
 
 However, top sources in the forest department claimed that the diversion of reserved forest land could take place only after strict conditions stipulated by the MOEF are met with. While the exact amount of compensation paid by Reliance for the forest land is not mentioned in the GR, sources said around Rs 40 crore could be liable towards net present value (NPV) and compulsory afforestation conditions.
 
 The area around Mukutban and nearby Korpana is rich in limestone and dolomite reserves. Presence of the minerals and its mining has already helped some cement plants located in nearby Chandrapur as well as Adilabad in Telangana across the state border. Sources said there was not much resistance at the public hearing that took place some years ago as many locals had willingly sold their land to Reliance.
 
 The company has reportedly acquired large chunks of private land in that area and the forest land it sought was landlocked between the acquired land. The cement project is already behind schedule but the government’s final nod for forest land diversion could now speed up setting up of the plant.
 
 
