Trichy: The craze for lavish life has tempted some college students to indulge in mobile snatching in Trichy for the past one year, according to police. The Cantonment Crime police have cracked the whip on the offenders and appealed to the public to be cautious of the snatchers.

 Of late, streets around Trichy   gained notoriety for mobile snatching at regular intervals. The frequent incidences of mobile snatching and the complaints from the people had prompted the police to look for the culprits last year. The investigation with the help of tracking the   ( ) led to the arrest of five students of the various colleges in the city in December 2017. The arrests also led to the recovery of mobile phones from them.
 
 On Wednesday, the Cantonment Crime police arrested 22-year-old man from   district in connection with the theft of mobile phones. A college student was his aide. They would roam along the streets around the Central Bus Stand on a bike without even covering their face during night and closely follow people from behind and snatch the phone from them in a jiffy.
 
 Further probe revealed that some of the students from economically weaker section of the society had a longing for expensive costumes and food served in the high-end restaurants. Acquaintance with people who have criminal background from their area tempted the youths to indulge in criminal activities unaware of the legal consequences that may even spoil their future.
 
 A police officer said that there was an increase of such incidents in June last year. Most of the students think mobile snatching is not a serious crime. However, the police booked the cases as robberies.
 
 The connivance of some of the mobile phone outlets in the city also gave an impetus to the snatchers. Some of the shops in a commercial complex near Chathiram Bus Stand have been indulging in buying the stolen mobile phones through agents. They sell them to the customers, particularly the college students. The Cantonment police warned them of severe action if they continued to do the business.
 
 A student of an engineering college in Trichy landed in trouble because he was using a stolen mobile phone a couple of months ago. Cybercrime police located him through the IMEI number as soon as he started using the mobile phone. The Cantonment Crime police said that the number of such incidents came down following the arrest of the culprits at regular intervals.
 
 “The arrests instilled a fear among such persons and resulted in the reduction of mobile phone snatching cases for the past few months,” said Cantonment police inspector (Crime) R   on Wednesday.
 
 
