Jaipur/Alwar : Be it Rajasthan police or Railway Protection Force (RPF), they are geared up to ensure no law and order problem occurs during the Mahapadav (sit-in dharna) proposed by Gujjar community on Tuesday at Adda village near Bayana. At least 10 companies of various police units and three companies of RPF have been deployed near the railway tracks which are almost three kms away from the spot where   are gathering. The railway tracks fall on the busiest Delhi-Mumbai railway route.

 Gujjars have been protesting since 2006 but have not been able to get the 5% separate quota. They continue to be in the OBC category.
 
 In almost every previous Gujjar agitation, the railway tracks, signals and railway stations were vandalized allegedly by the protesting Gujjars. Thus, the police and railway administration is in no mood to take the Gujjars call of Mahapadav lightly. 
 
 “Adequate number of policemen was deployed by us and railways to ensure law and order. Gujjars should abide by the Rajasthan High Court directives which have clearly said that they will not let common men suffer due to their agitation. The Gujjars’ dharna spot is almost 3 kms away from where railway tracks are passing. The nearby railway station from the spot is Bayana in Bharatpur district,” said Anil Tank, superintendent of police while talking to TOI over phone from Bharatpur. 
 
 Inspector General of police, Bharatpur Range, Alok Vashishitha and district collector Sandesh Nayak also reached at Bayana to take a stock of the situation. 
 
 As a matter of strategy, the police have ensured that the deployed policemen varying from a constable to a deputy superintendent of police rank should be the one who had served in Bharatpur and its various police station areas. “The local acquaintance of the deployed policemen always helps in ensuring peace is restored. As per our inputs, Gujjars are in no mood to indulge in unnecessary violence this time,” said a senior officer of intelligence wing of Rajasthan police. 
 
 On the other hand the Indian Railways have ordered six of railway protection force companies to be deployed along Delhi-Mumbai and Jaipur-Agra rail tracks at Bayana, Hindaun, Bharatpur, Agra and Jaipur.
 
 However, no cancellation of trains on the Delhi-Mumbai and Jaipur-Agra rail route has been announced by the railway so far. 
 
 
