VARANASI: A beautifully crafted replica of   may give the French President Emmanuel   a Paris feeling in   during his visit to the city with Prime Minister   on Monday.

 A master craftsman   from   village of Ghazipur district has come with a exquisite piece of jute wall hanging displaying the replica of Eiffel Tower with blue background.
 
 Ghazipur is known for its finest wall hanging, which is one of the unique handicraft products transformed from best combination of golden fiber jute yarn and fabric. Jute fiber used as basic material is a natural, biodegradable, non-toxic and environmental friendly.
 
 “It took one week to complete. I made this exclusively for our visiting distinguished guest from France to give him a home feeling,” said Kaiser, who travelled from Ghazipur to Varanasi with his creation just to catch the attention of the French President.
 
 “The jute wall hanging will be put on display with other traditional handicrafts at the Deen Dayal Handicraft museum, which will be visited by the French President,” said an expert of Geographical Indication (GI) Rajni Kant of Human Welfare Association who arranged local crafts for display before the visiting guests.
 
 Presently about 2000 artisans in about 60 villages in Ghazipur district are engaged in jute handicrafts. The jute wall hanging of Ghazipur has been included in the ‘One District One Product’ (ODOP) scheme launched recently by the chief minister Aditya Nath Yogi. Efforts are being made by District Rural Development Agency of Ghazipur with the help of self help groups of Sawaran Jayanti Gram Sawa Rojgar Yojna and NGOs to promote the craft to meet the demand of domestic and export markets.
 
 “Jute wall hanging is famous throughout India and many foreign countries for their exquisite design, variety and craftsmanship. But, despite its great export value the artisans are in penury due to existence of ‘middlemen’,” said Kant adding that Ghazipur wall hanging is going to join the elite GI club soon for its exclusiveness.
 
