Thiruvananthapuram: The state government, which could distribute one of the largest relief funds to families of missing persons following   disaster, owes largely to the co-ordinated efforts of officials of revenue, fisheries and police departments in the district.

 For the last three months, all the revenue officials administering seven coastal villages of two taluks had to meet daily tasks in constantly reaching out to the families of Ockhi victims. 
 
 The primary task was identification of persons who were dead and those who were missing amidst conflicting reports from all sides. The department banked on its reach to prepare the list meticulously and the next step was to identify dependants. There were a total of 537 dependants of fishermen who had lost their lives and who went missing. The revenue team identified all these dependants and had relief fund deposited in their accounts. For each of these dependants, the certificates proving their claim were prepared by the officials.
 
 “Every day, the task was assigned via whatsapp and officials would be asked to do house visits in certain coastal villages and in the evening the work report would be shared. The dependants mostly lived in other villages so they had to be tracked down in co-ordination with officials of nearby revenue villages,” said additional district magistrate John V Samuel. 
 
 A special team was constituted comprising two deputy tahsildars, village officers concerned and other revenue assistants as part of identification of families and distribution of relief fund. The team could identify the beneficiaries and work out the relief fund within 30 days for the families of fishermen who died during Ockhi and whose bodies were identified. 
 
 “We deployed our additional staff to visit each house and fill in the forms because many of them were illiterate and we also had to consider their emotional state. It was the co-ordinated effort of police, fisheries and revenue departments which made this possible,” said G K Suresh Kumar, tahasildar, Thiruvananthapuram. 
 
 The revenue wing had filled in all documents and brought it to CM’s office by Monday evening. When the families of the missing persons were to be arranged for the function, the revenue officials could easily call out their names and identify faces without any doubt of nearly 300 people who turned up to receive the aid. “We had been to their houses so many times, helping out with filling of forms and preparing bank documents so we knew almost everyone in the family of missing persons,” a revenue official said.
 
 The team is not done with their job. “A special report based on problems of each of these families is now being prepared and will be submitted to state government for further action,” said Suresh Kumar.
 
 The fisheries officials collected data on loss of fishing units following a month-long door-to-door visit.
 
 The families showed their gratitude in the most fitting manner, holding the hands of the officials and just calling ‘saare’ and it contained everything.
 
 
