KOLKATA: Breast cancer cases have been rising sharply in Kolkata, widening the gap with  , which is the second most common form of the disease among women. Around 40 per 1 lakh women in the city are now afflicted with breast cancer, largely due to lifestyle reasons. The number could shoot up by 40% within the next five years in the absence of early screening and awareness, fear experts.

 
 Around 12,000 breast cancer patients are treated in Kolkata every year, according to figures compiled by Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose Cancer Research Institute (NSCBCRI). Three thousand new patients seek treatment every year.
 
 The patient load could soon turn too big to handle, according to Diptendra Sarkar, head of the Breast Service and Research unit at IPGMER, Kolkata. “Lifestyle has changed drastically over the last 15-20 years. Late marriage, fast food, excess weight and irregular work and sleep hours were responsible for the spurt in breast cancer. Genetic reasons were also important and those with a family history are frequently affected. The only way to check the spiralling of breast cancer cases is to spread awareness, help women identify the early symptoms and go for screening,” said Sarkar.
 
 
  
 More than half of the city’s women in the 45-55 age group — considered the most vulnerable to breast cancer — are overweight, according to oncologist Subir Ganguly. “Excess fat produces estrogen in the body which is responsible for breast cancer. Urban, working women are also frequent users of hormonal drugs which trigger the disease. They also tend to lead a sedentary life which makes them vulnerable,” he said.
 
 Some experts pointed out the average age of the onset of puberty among girls has dropped to nine from 11in Kolkata. Menopause, too, has been pushed back by two to three years. “Overeating and excess fat are responsible for this. The longer women menstruate, the greater is the risk of getting breast cancer. So, parents should guard against overfeeding children. Working women should make sure they get adequate physical exercise and avoid  ,” said Ganguly.
 
 “The breast cancer figures could be understated as there is no reliable cancer registry in Kolkata. Alarmingly, a large number of patients get diagnosed too late for treatment or never get diagnosed,” said Ashish Mukhopadhyay, NSCBCRI director.
 
 Breast cancer awareness was abysmally low in Kolkata, resulting in high mortality, said Sarkar. More than half of the breast cancer cases in India were detected in stages 3 and 4. “Negligence and alternative medicine were primarily responsible for the delay. Even many doctors believe that small tumours were not likely to turn malignant,” said Sarkar.
 
