It was just another lazy Sunday morning in March for many, but not for Naushad, Georgie, Naveej and Vijayan. 

 The four running enthusiasts from Kochi hopped on to their vehicles around 3.30 am and left for Wagamon, nearly a hundred kilometres away. Though it’s been a regular holiday running spot for them, this was a trip with a difference. They were determined not to just run or jog. Armed with their eco bags, they were all set to ‘plog’. 
 
 For the uninitiated, it’s a portmanteau of the words jogging and ‘plocka upp (Swedish)’ which means, to pick up. Ploggers don’t just jog, they also pick up trash they spot on the way, combining exercise with a leg-up for the environment.
 
 The four reached Wagamon around 6.30 am and started their 20 km run from Uppukulam. As they ran, their hands reached out to the trash strewn around, which they might have otherwise raced past. As they cruised along, the route got cleaner. Towards the last few kilometres, their bags were so heavy that they found it hard to carry on running. “On the way back, we spotted a scrap dealer who collected all the waste. He offered to pay us, but we didn’t take any money. The extra calories we burned, the fun we had and the sense of satisfaction we had were rewarding enough,” recalls Naushad Hassanar, who works for the customs department.
 
  has been popular around the world for a while, but it is just catching up in Kerala. “Someone had shared an article about it on our runners’ group and we happened to discuss the idea. That’s when Naushad just grabbed a few bags and said, ‘let’s do it’,” says Vijayan Pillai, Naushad’s colleague. Just like them, many have been combining this activity with their daily exercise routine in the State. We find out what’s special about the trend.
 
 
 
 A P Kumar, who runs with his group   regularly, says, “In the past, we used to have activities like cleaning up a beach or a river bank in Kochi, before or after a run. When we heard about plogging, we thought, ‘Why not tidy up our running route once in a while, through plogging? It would definitely make the route far more appealing.’ We organised it first a few weeks ago and now, we are thinking of doing it again, this month end.”
 In Thrissur, Sebastian Vincent, who runs a retail firm, plogged with his running buddies of Iringalakkuda Sporting Club two weeks ago, just for the fun of it. 
 
 “There were around eight of us -- a few were runners and others, who are into games like football, also joined us. We ran around the municipal ground of Iringalakkuda and collected plastic, paper and other waste. Later, we handed it all over to the municipality.” The group is planning to do a 3-km plogging stint again, this week.
 
 Within a few days, Thiruvananthapuram might also witness its first plogging event. Art director Shino Mol, who belongs to the group called i10 runners at the capital, says, “Most probably next month, we too would plog. We generally do an uphill run in the Ponmudi area from Kallar to the Upper Sanatorium and often, we spot waste strewn in this area despite an existing ban here. We always think of carrying bags along to pick them and soon, we will execute it.”
 
 
 
 The eco-friendly workout gives you an endorphin rush in many ways, ploggers say. Kumar says, “It’s not as easy as jogging or running, as it involves a lot more muscle groups too in the activity. To pick up the trash, you would be stretching, bending and involving a lot more of your body parts, without realising much about it. As you walk or run carrying the trash bag, your strength is also tested. You obviously end up burning a lot more calories, in a fun manner.”
 Vijayan says that plogging makes running a lot more interesting. “It wipes off the monotony of running and takes your mind away from it. You feel good that alongside doing something for your physical wellness, you are contributing to the nature too and thus improve the mental wellness as well. While we ran, we could see how we could make a big difference to a trail of 16 to 17 kilometres in Wagamon and that motivates us to do more.”
 
 Many people also see it as an interactive activity, which helps them beautify their surroundings, involving even kids! Sebastian from Thrissur says, “We are planning a two to three hour of plogging for kids of our neighbourhood, in this vacation season. It would definitely be a quality, useful outdoor activity for them too.”
 
