NEW DELHI: Seeking to allay the Supreme Court’s apprehension that mandatory   linkage with mobiles and bank accounts to check money laundering and financial fraud could amount to suspecting all citizens, the Centre said the measure was similar to frisking of all passengers at airports.

 
 Appearing for the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI), additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta argued before a bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices A K Sikri, A M Khanwilkar, D Y Chandrachud and Ashok Bhushan that “when the government is applying a methodology uniformly to weed out possible irregularities, it is not that all are suspected of the irregularity”.
 
 Citing a US   judgment, which ruled that checking baggage of everyone for possible drug carriers did not cast stigma on innocents, Mehta said all passengers were subjected to body frisking at airports even if one in a million would be found carrying objectionable items that could be used to sabotage or hijack a flight.
 
 “Frisking all passengers at the airport does not mean the authorities see every passenger as a suspect,” he said, adding that because of the linkage with bank accounts, mobile phones and income tax returns, the government was able to detect non-taxed funds of Rs 37,000 crore.
 
 “It is not that all persons were tax-evaders. But checking through Aadhaar linkage was done to ensure that tax evaders did not escape the net,” Mehta said. “Frisking at airports advance public and national interest. It does not stigmatise all passengers. Similarly, Aadhaar linkage does not make everyone a suspect, but facilitates detecting tax evasion and other financial crimes,” he added.
 
 Though the argument made an impact on the bench, Justices Sikri and Chandrachud told the Centre that drawing a comparison between Aadhaar linkage and airport frisking might not be an apt example. “It may not be reasonable to seek phone number of all citizens just because a few individuals are indulging in money laundering or other financial crimes,” it said.
 
 The bench said, “Different crimes require proportional screening and checking. Non-payment of tax, duty evasion or money laundering is at a different level than carrying drugs, arms or dangerous objects on aircraft, which may constitute threat to national security.”
 
 Mehta agreed that measures to detect different crimes required proportional measures. “We are not equating terrorism with tax evasion or trying to project all citizens as tax evaders. But money laundering and financial frauds pose quite a serious threat to national security,” he said. The ASG will continue his arguments on Thursday.
 
 
 
 
