Ludhiana: After passing of the entire year, civic officials are now reminded of recovery of pending dues as only one month is left for the same. As soon as MC polls end and the election code is over, the department will start its recovery drive. As many as 40,000 defaulters will be served notices for clearing their property tax dues. Water supply and sewerage dues recovery notices will also be served separately.

 A total of 37 joint teams have been formed, including executive engineers, sub-divisional officers, junior engineers, chief sanitary inspectors, and other clerical staff for recovery. Officials will now have to go into the field for recovery, so as to achieve their targets. One of the officials claimed that they had recovered around Rs 59 crore from property tax, which is Rs 8.5 crore more than the previous year, but it is far from the annual target. He said they had to recover around Rs 100 crore by end of March, and a similar situation exists with regard to water supply and sewerage dues, as only Rs 27 crore have been recovered against a target of Rs 100 crore.
 
 Recently, a meeting was conducted by MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh, where it was decided to send notices to defaulters, and form teams to recover pending dues from them. The teams have been formed and orders will be issued on Monday, and after February 25, MC will start issuing notices to defaulters. Jaskiran Singh, while confirming the move, said only one month is left for the recovery of pending dues, so teams have been formed to achieve the targets. He appealed to the public that they should clear their pending dues, otherwise they would have to take stern action against defaulters. 
 
 PINNING HOPES ON AMRUT
 
 An audit team from the central government recently visited the city for checking reforms done by MC officials under Amrut (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) scheme. The centre had released Rs 18 crore to the state government, but oney was not transferred to MC. Now, officials are pinning hopes that after this audit checking, the money would be refunded to their kitty.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh revealed that along with residential, commercial, or industrial properties, even government departments who did not clear their property tax dues would remain under their radar. He said they would take up the issue with department heads, as well as secretary Local Bodies, for recovery. 
 
 
