PANAJI: The state government may be starting to develop an app for taxi services and it may take another four months for it realise, but Panaji-based Raghu Shetiye has been running an internet-based taxi service for the past four years. That he has over 100 taxi owners registered with him but none from certain pockets of north and south Goa beach belt—the hub of tourism—clearly shows the strangehold of taxi mafia on the business.

 “Today, people in Goa get scared of hiring a   because they find it exorbitant. If we charge an amount which everyone can afford, then see how everyone and anyone will start hiring a cab and how it becomes a profitable business for local taxi operators,” says Shetiye.
 
 He says the so-called peak season taxi rates, which are double the regular rates, has seen tourist bookings in star hotels drop by around 30%. “I cannot believe the government has been at loggerheads with taxi operators for three years now. I can resolve the issue within three days. It is just a communication gap,” says Shetiye.
 
 Shetiye, who is against bringing in app-based services like Ola and Uber, also feels that the government has not business to get into an app-based taxi service. “If the government starts entering businesses, then what will locals do,” he asks.
 
 He also reckons that businesses like Ola and Uber may create largescale unemployment among taxi operators in Goa, as it may attract vehicles from outside to register with these companies.
 
 “Ola and Uber are companies just like Pepsi and Coke and we may be like limewater, but we are still as good. Local taxi operators should either register with us or start their own local internet-based service,” he says.
 
 Shetiye says it was purely business at the heart of his idea to begin TaxiGo. “It was not social work.”
 
 Often, he had to face hostility from the taxi operators, which he is unable to fathom. “I am on the same page as the local taxi operators on most issues. There should be a balance the government should maintain in expanding the   business. It cannot grow to the extent that it destroys the local culture and identity. The government should regulate rent-a-bike business,” he says.
 
