Pune/Hyderbad: It was kidnapping for ransom of a different kind. The abductor didn’t want money, instead demanded his captive’s family to deliver his lady-love. However, police foiled his plan and rescued the Telangana boy at Pune railway station early on Monday. 

 The eight-year-old boy was kidnapped from Kothakota in Wanaparthy district. In a swift act by Telangana police, he was rescued within 24 hours after an inter-state operation.
 
 Ratlavath Chandru Naik, a class 3 student of Bharatiya Vidya Mandir school in Kothakota, was kidnapped by Vamsi Krishna, a 23-year-old auto driver from Mahbubnagar district. 
 
 Vamsi Krishna had an affair with the boy’s aunt, who lives at Shivrampally on outskirts of Hyderabad, and recently her family members came to know about it. The woman’s family thrashed Vamsi at Shivrampally and warned him not to come anywhere near her again.
 
 A humiliated Vamsi Krishna went to the boy’s residential school, where Chandru and two of his brothers are studying, on April 7. Vamsi told the school staff that Chandru Naik’s mother suffered a road accident in Hyderabad and asked the boys to accompany him to the city.
 
 As the boys told the management that Vamsi was their neighbour, the school staff let the boys go with him. After reaching Kothakota bus station, Vamsi asked the two older boys to wait there and left with Chandru Naik.
 
 After waiting for a few hours, the two boys returned to the school as Vamsi did not turn up. A little later, parents of Chandru Naik called the school asking why Vamsi was calling them and claiming that he kidnapped their boy. 
 
 As Vamsi continued his ransom calls, demanding the victim’s family hand over his lady-love, a complaint was lodged with Kothakota police station on April 8 by the boy’s grandmother Ratlavath Julie and a kidnapping case (crime number: 60/2018) was registered under Section 363 of the IPC.
 
 Wanaparthy district in-charge SP Rema Rajeshwari immediately formed a special team to rescue the boy. Police tracked the kidnapper to Maharashtra and found that he was travelling by train. Telangana police immediately alerted their counterparts in Sholapur, Pune and also sought assistance of RPF sleuths.
 
 A special team, headed by circle inspector B Somanarayana Singh of Kothakota, also went to Pune. The kidnapper was nabbed while he was trying to escape with the boy after disembarking at Pune railway station in the early hours of Monday. The special team arrested the culprit and were bringing back the boy home.
 
 
