NEW DELHI. King of   Abdullah II bin Al-Hussein arrives in India for a three-day visit starting today. He will hold official talks with PM Narendra Modi on Thursday. Defence, security and investments are going to be the key areas of discussion on the bilateral agenda. Here are 10 reasons why Abdullah’s visit holds a lot of significance from India’s point of view:

 
 1. India is putting in significant diplomatic capital by engaging key Islamic countries on de-radicalisation. Known to be against Islamic extremism, King Abdullah could be of great help to India in counter-terror operations. Although on Kashmir issue, Jordan has held a very neutral position since 1970.
 
  2. Being a leading voice on moderation in Islam, his special address on 'Promoting Understanding and Moderation', organised by India Islamic Center, in Delhi, could be of great importance to strengthen internal security in India.
 
  3. From the perspective of defence cooperation, India and Jordan are currently in the process of negotiating a defence framework agreement. Abdullah’s visit is expected could fast track the exercise.
 
  4. Jordan is not only a harbinger of stability in a volatile Palestine region but is also among the few Muslim majority countries having diplomatic ties with Israel, India’s strongest ally in middle-east.
 
  5. With Abdullah’s support, India can deepen security ties with Jordan to leverage its unique strategic location in the Levant, with access to the Red Sea and the eastern Mediterranean.
 
  6. Jordan also plays an important role in India's food security through provision of fertilisers and phosphates. Indian investors have taken advantage of Jordan's free trade agreements with the US and are trying to make it a hub of textile exports.
 
  7. From technology point of view, King Abdullah will visit   to explore collaboration with Jordan technical institutes. The two sides are expected to sign MoUs for exchange of ideas.
 
  8. He will also participate in a CEO Round-table followed by   jointly organized by FICCI, CII and ASSOCHAM.
 
  9. Both sides are expected to ink a number of agreements to expand cooperation in several key sectors including health care, IT, customs etc.
 
 10. Modi and the king are also likely to explore ways of deepening trade ties, which holds importance as twenty textile industries from India have invested around USD 300 million in Jordan.
 
