CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) will not issue any new or fresh notice for any existing violations in any dwelling unit, falling under the domain of the CHB till the technical committees decides on the policy to regularize the need-based changes of such properties. 

 The decision has been taken after the crucial meeting attended by city MP  , CHB chairman  , CEO   and secretary Virat. Municipal councillors and office bearers of CHB Residents Welfare Federation, Chandigarh were also present in the meeting.
 
 During the meeting, Kher said the office order issued on January 1, 2016 by the then chairman of CHB Maninder Bains should be implemented in letter and spirit. The office order states that no new notice shall be issued for any existing violations in any dwelling unit of the CHB. Besides requesting the CHB officials to stop sending notices, she also advocated for the one-time settlement for the violations of CHB dwelling units.
 
 Finance secretary of UT Ajoy Sinha, who is holding the temporary charge of chairman of CHB said he has directed the concerned officers to work on mapping of violations in CHB houses sector-wise and type-wise. After the report will be ready, a technical committee will be constituted which will also include the stake-holders. The committee will formulate the comprehensive policy. Safety of structures and protecting the privacy of neighbours would be kept in mind while drafting the new policy. It would be ensured that residents get proper light and ventilation in their houses while allowing need-based changes in their respective buildings.
 
 While appreciating the move of the city MP Kirron Kher, Federation of Sectors Welfare Association of Chandigarh thanked her for taking cognizance of the issue which is affecting lakhs of the residents. 
 
 "We thank MP Kirron Kher and the officers of Chandigarh administration and CHB for taking initiative in resolving long pending demands of residents living in CHB flats and rehabilitation colonies. We are hopeful that soon a positive and satisfactory solution will be arrived at, in giving one-time settlement of need-based changes at a very reasonable rate," the federation said.
 
 
