NAGPUR: The recent storm of allegations over city police’s alleged apathy to go after the   gang, which had attacked crime branch officials in December last year, also brought to fore the backing of a builder who is helping the gangsters financially. The power lobbying behind the gang also ensured a senior cop intervening to get one of its members released even after being rounded up by crime branch last month. 

 Sources from the police department claimed the builder had earlier gifted one of the members of the gang with an SUV. The builder now gifted another car to one of the gang members during his marriage held around two months back. It was attended by top goons from various pockets of the city. 
 
 Pawan Moryani and another, who too had attended the marriage party and were close to the gang, were earlier arrested for their alleged involvement in the attack on the crime branch. 
 
 It is learnt that the builder, having got into several financial controversies, uses the Ippa gang as his protectors whenever he lands in trouble. He, in turn, uses his monetary power and clouts to render help to the gang members for bail and other assistance. 
 
 “Most of the builders also sponsor the gangsters by lavishly spending on their travels and other luxuries,” said an insider who claimed to have closely watched the modus operandi of some builder-gangster nexus. 
 
 “Some of the builders ‘hide’ the gangsters in their well-equipped farmhouses in the outskirts of the city and also move them to other states to help them avoid arrests. These gangsters then threaten their rivals, scare the bank and financial officials and also citizens who would create any obstacles,” said the insider. 
 
 The registration of an offence of cheating and forgery in January at Ambazari against two builders, including the son of a political leader, reeked of a similar collusion. In the past, the same property dispute had witnessed the involvement of the fugitive don Santosh Ambekar, Yuvraj   and Gautam Bhatkar who is now externed by Ambazari police limits. An offence against the three too was registered then. 
 
 Ambekar was also booked for murder, along with a builder among others, in the sensational murder case of Anant Soni. The case was probed by the State Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The accused had later got acquitted. 
 
 Mathankar was booked under MCOCA, registered at Sonegaon police station, along with others when he had gone to threaten a victim at the behest of a builder. 
 
 In June 2015, a controversial builder’s name had come to fore in the murder of  , younger brother of  , over a dispute related to property. Mithun too had been then threatened by a gangster who is now in limelight after his spat on phone led to the registration of an offence in January.
 
 Mahesh Sadwani, vice-president of Credai Maharashtra, said builders must not deal with goons and instead seek assistance from police. “One must use police machineries for addressing any grievance,” he said. 
 
 Tejinder Singh Renu, executive body member of Credai Nagpur, said like all businessmen, the builders too are duty-bound to follow ethics and proper conduct which applies to individuals and organizations. “The principle of sound ethics for business are not written anywhere but followed by majority of builders,” he said. 
 
 DCP (crime) Sambhaji Kadam said builders or any individual should approach police department for redressing their grievances. “Police are there to extend all possible legal help. We do not even mind keeping identities a secret. People should come forward freely to approach police,” he said. 
 
 
