NAGPUR: Ahead of the Swachh Survekshan-2018 to be done by a Central government team in the city from February 15, the   ( ) has decided not to collect non-segregated   from bulk waste generators. The civic body has also started the process to introduce the norm for residential households in the coming days.

 Garbage segregation and reuse at source is one of the important parameters under Swachh Survekshan. Segregation is also essential for making the city clean, green and to earn wealth from waste. Municipal commissioner Ashwin   on Sunday held a review meeting with officials of health department and assistant commissioners of all zones to discuss the status of its segregation drive. 
 
 Mudgal told TOI that the norm of compulsory garbage segregation will be applicable on those generating over 100kg garbage in a day. NMC had sent letters to all the bulk generators in July and notices in August 2017 in this regard. In order to promote garbage segregation, the NMC had also kept separate dustbins in commercial/market areas,” he said.
 
 The civic chief further said that the process to implement the norm for residential households has kicked-off. “Process to procure dustbins for households is in the final stages. General body had passed a resolution to distribute dustbins free of cost and the High Court too had passed an order in this regard. We will take legal opinion on whether to charge citizens for providing dustbins. 
 
 “We are urging citizens to get their own dustbins and start garbage segregation. We will first provide all the facilities regarding garbage segregation and then think about making it compulsory for all,” he said.
 
 Bulk generators include big flat schemes, hotels, lawns and educational institutions. An official from NMC health department said second notices were issued to them around 15 days ago.
 
 The NMC had launched garbage segregation drive on June 5, 2017. The target was to distribute 11 lakh dustbins — two each for the 5.50 lakh households — and ensure 30% garbage segregation within three months and 100% within a year. 
 
 The NMC has distributed only 10,000 dustbins so far. As per NMC’s data, 25% garbage segregation target has been achieved and it will be 100% by December end.
 
 The NMC is concentrating only on dry and wet garbage though the government has introduced third category — domestic hazardous waste. As per the government’s notification dated April 29, 2018, wet garbage has to be stored in green coloured dustbin, dry in blue and domestic hazardous waste in red.
 
 
