Suave, stylish, focused and fearless – that’s Prithviraj in a nutshell. With his magnetic personality and an eclectic repertoire of films in Malayalam, Tamil and Hindi with some of the best directors in the country, the star is clearly leagues ahead when compared to the younger crop of Mollywood actors.
His vow not to promote misogyny in his movies won widespread acclaim from across the country, and has served only to amp up his undeniable desirability quotient.
 It is no wonder then that, taking into account the online votes by readers and our vote, Prithviraj is Kochi Times   2017. In a free-wheeling chat, the superstar talks to us about his fitness mantra, the qualities he believes make people desirable, and feminism:
 
 
 
 
 I guess what is significant about the polls and the result is that it tells you that you wield an influence over a lot of people. It tells you that they might want to listen to you, try and understand what you are saying. So, that in effect means you have a lot of responsibility.
 
 
 
 
 I have no clue, to be frank. Something about myself that I have grown comfortable in the past few years is that I have sort of given up on trying to convince people. So, I guess once you enter that zone, you come across as someone who is secure about who you are. I think that’s what people find appealing.
 
 
 
 I think the biggest quality is to not try and stand out, because every time you are putting an effort to do that, the effort shows. I think I am lucky that at a very young age I entered a zone in my career where I am not competing against anybody or any kind of cinema. 
 Once you step aside from the competition, it’s a really nice space to be in, where you know you have your own path and your own kind of cinema that you want to do. I am now just doing movies that I am convinced about, films that I think must be made and I do it the way I want it with all my heart.
 
 I am also blessed that today there are a lot of people who believe in that kind of cinema. They look forward to my movies trusting that I will come out with a film with a difference and something that offers them a rewarding, new experience at theatres. That’s all that I can ask for.
 
 
 
 
 You should probably ask my wife that question because I don’t even go shopping. I am the kind of guy, who if there is an event happening in the evening, would step out of the shower, open the wardrobe and then go, ‘Oh, I don’t have anything good to wear’. Again, it’s the question of what looks good on you and that’s often about what you are comfortable pulling off.
 
 
 
 
 Even if I am not an actor, I would still probably be working out and eating healthy as it is something I enjoy as a lifestyle. Of course, it started off as something that I thought is part of my job. I am an actor, so I need to be presentable and have to keep myself fit. But over the years, it has become a lifestyle for me. I do not enjoy the feelings of being unfit, having overeaten and not exercised.
 
 
 
 
 What I do within my workout time depends on the character I am doing and how I have to look. Right now, I am going through a really uncomfortable phase because I am trying to put on a lot of weight. That’s what director Blessy wants me to do for the first schedule of Aadujeevitham. It’s actually something extremely new to me because I have never really hogged food to pack on pounds. I have never had a problem of being underweight. Blessy now wants me to have a paunch and look really plump. I am trying that, I don’t know how far I will get. The idea is to show the character in one state and then in the later schedules show how much emaciated he has become. 
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think I have ever really had this chocolate, lover boy image. So, I don’t know if I have lost anything from being married. If I did, I am more than happy to lose it. Today, I am a husband, a father, a son, a brother and if the Kochi Times readers have found me desirable, I am sure it’s an aggregate of all those facets of my personality. 
 
 
 
 
 To me, to respect who you are is a quality I find sexy in women. Over the years, when you meet people and see more of the world, you realise it’s not as easy as it sounds to show respect to yourselves. So, it’s a really attractive quality in anybody, especially women.
 
 
 
 
 There are a lot of attractive women who I have worked with and had the chance to interact with. But if I had to pick someone, I would go with Nazriya. She’s somebody I just met recently. She is so much herself and doesn’t even try to convince people why she is the way she is. I have a lot of love and respect for her.
 
 
 
 It’s not about what stand you take but your conviction towards it. We are living in a world which is quite complex in its network of what is true, what is not and what is in between. We live in a society that will constantly tell us what to believe, feel, read or hear. In the midst of all this, to pick your truth and to stand by that with all your conviction, I think that is what chalks the personality out.
 
 
 
 I think there is a lot of ambiguity about the definition of feminism in terms of its inference and comprehension. So, to a certain degree it might vary on what each person’s comprehension of what feminism is. But I cannot run away from the fact that we are living in a time where the term feminism resonates in the society and it is obviously significant. We have come to a point, where we need to address it. I don't believe that it is something that we can brush under the carpet anymore and say it is all hogwash. It isn’t.
 
 Feminism needs to be addressed and spoken about. But it is a debate where both sides will have to be heard out. I understand that today, it is probably being spoken about as it should be but not all of the conversations or texts are agreeable. The inference of feminism, especially in the context of the times we live in, should be arrived at after a lot of thought and understanding.
 
