Can a student withdraw from a tutorial class when he is not satisfied with the teaching? 

 Case Study: Ranveer Singh had enrolled his son, Satish, at Brilliant Classes for a course to prepare for entrance examination for engineering. Satish attended classes for two days, but was not satisfied with the standard of the coaching. So he requested for refund of the fees paid. Initially, Brillant Classes postponed the refunding on some pretext or the other, but when Satish persisted, the coaching class refused to repay the amount.
 
  Aggrieved, Satish, through his father, filed a complaint before the   in Delhi. The complaint was filed against Brilliant Classes through its in-charge Ms Prabha, who contested the case. The classes stated that Satish was enrolled in July 2011 for CBSE and AIEEE examination study classes. The institute contended that Satish had merely paid the advance fees of Rs 1,000, and the remaining amount was yet to be paid. Satish attended the classes for two days only, and then stopped coming to the class. In these circumstances, the class contended it had no liability to refund the fees as Satish had abandoned the coaching of his own accord. 
 
  The   considered the contentions of both the sides and ordered Brilliant Classes to refund 90% of the course fee along with an interest of 6% per annum from the date of filing of the complaint. In addition, Rs 5,000 was awarded as compensation for inconvenience and hardship. 
 
  Brilliant Classes challenged the order in appeal. It was argued that Satish had concocted a false story to extract money. The class claimed that Satish had merely paid Rs 1,000. They claimed that after attending the course for two days, Satish had informed them that his brother had met with an accident and had stopped attending the course. Their defence was that refund of fees was not warranted under such circumstances. 
 
  The   observed that the coaching class had not produced any evidence to show the quantum of the fees paid by Satish. On the other hand, Satish had produced a receipt which showed that the total course fees were Rs 60,000, out of which he had paid Rs 20,000 on July 11, 2011, and another Rs 20,000 on July 21, 2011, totalling Rs 40,000. The state commission observed that the documentary evidence falsified the defence raised, and concluded that the plea of Brilliant Classes was not acceptable. 
 
  The commission also observed that the correspondence regarding the claim for refund clearly showed that Satish had found the coaching to be substandard. So it refused to believe the plea raised by Brilliant Classes that Satish had stopped attending classes as his brother had met with an accident. 
 
  Accordingly, by a December 19 order delivered by   for the bench along with Justice  , the commission concluded that Satish had paid Rs 40,000. It held that a student cannot be compelled to continue with a course if he finds it substandard. Hence, the fees ought to have been refunded, and failure to do so would constitute a deficiency in service. The appeal was dismissed and the order passed in Satish's favour was confirmed. 
 
  Conclusion: A student is entitled to a refund of fees if teaching at a coaching class is substandard. 
 
  (The author is a consumer activist and has won the government of India's National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His e-mail is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in) 
 
 
