Actor Nirup Bhandari’s acting debut with   was as good as anyone could ask for; under his brother Anup Bhandari’s direction and with crew full of familiar faces, the critically-acclaimed movie went on to do well commercially, too. With  , their latest offering, the brothers are hoping to continue their film journey, says Nirup, albeit with a more mature mindset. “Just before we started off with Rajaratha, our dad told us to forget about the success of RangiTaranga, and that’s exactly what we’ve done. We started off with the movie afresh, keeping in mind all the things we learned from our first film, but not the fame and recognition it brought us. Anup has worked doubly hard for this movie, which was shot in difficult locations, with a bigger cast and in a new language as well. That’s where having the same core team as RangiTaranga helped make those challenges easier to face. Besides, I really enjoy my brother’s style of filmmaking; the scenes are shot end-to-end, like filming a play,” Nirup says. 
In the film, Nirup plays the character of Abhi, a filmi, goofy final year mechanical engineering student who falls in love with  , played by  . Elaborating more on the role, he says, “Abhi, who also writes poems, has the habit of referencing dialogues from old films in his normal conversations. What’s interesting about that quirk is that it was inspired by my own habit of doing the same in college. When Anup narrated the character to me, I immediately thought of this, so we tried it out and it suited   perfectly.”
 Now that Rajaratha is ready for release, the actor brings to our attention the things that are both similar and different from their debut film’s shooting process. “When we filmed RangiTaranga, there was a bit of innocence in the process — we didn’t know the dynamics of the film industry, the budget was tighter and our filming was more guerilla-style. In fact, we both did most of the chauffeuring for the cast. But with Rajaratha, we had a bigger budget, better facilities and more knowledge about everything. What did not change was the style of our filmmaking. We also struck a balance between being familial and professional — for instance, we had our own caravans, but we’d use it once at the start of the day, and at the end, never going back to it in between shoots and helping others on set,” says Nirup.
 As someone who attended a school for method acting in Bengaluru before setting foot into the industry, how much of it has helped Nirup become a better actor? “Some actors are natural, but those who are serious about acting should study the art. Learning the technicalities of acting makes everybody’s job easy. At the acting school, we learn more of a theatre style of acting — it’s technical, realistic and we become the character. But in films, to suit the sensibilities of the audiences, sometimes it’s necessary to go a little over-the-top. Otherwise, they tend to get the impression that you don’t know how to act,” he says.
 The one thing that stands out from the teasers and trailers of Rajaratha is its colourful, engaging visuals, shot by cinematographer William David. Nirup explains, saying, “Rajaratha is a visually-heavy film. We’ve tried to make every frame look like a painting, be it film scenes or songs, but also kept it realistic. The song Mundhe Banni is a good example, which is both visually rich as well as relevant. The song, which has been recreated by Anup, is not only for show; it is connected to the story. With acrobats, fire-breathers and performers in the background, Yash, to whom we showed the song, commented that it has a very   feel to it. We’ve tried a lot of new things, so we’re just as excited for this film’s release, as we were for our first.”
 
 
