KOCHI: Kerala has failed to submit its views on   ( ) Bill (2017) to the parliamentary standing committee on health and family welfare on time. But, neighbouring states like Tamil Nadu and Karnataka submitted their views to the committee before the mid-March deadline. 

 That there was no representation from the state government in the report submitted by the committee in   and   this month. "It is unfortunate that we failed to submit our views on time. The draft prepared by the health department was submitted to the law department. But it was never sent to the parliamentary standing committee," said a health department official.
 
 Meanwhile, Indian   (IMA) Kerala, is unhappy with the current development. "We are a model state with good health parameters and not responding is a huge lapse that shows a lack of commitment," said   state secretary Dr N Sulphi. IMA has been protesting against the bill, with doctors and medical students frequently taking part in protests at Delhi.
 
 As health and medical education is placed under the concurrent list in the seventh schedule of the Constitution, states are important stakeholders in the medical education system of India and therefore their views and concerns were sought.
 
 Some state governments said that the Medical Council of India (MCI) was designed to ensure an adequate representation of state governments and UT administrations whereas NMC will be a nominated body. They said that states will have no say in the regulation of medical education if NMC is established in its present form.
 
 Sources said that the health department of Kerala too had mentioned the problem of inadequate representation of state government in NMC. On the issue of bridge courses, the government felt that states should be allowed to decide on this matter on a case-to-case basis. "Because we recognise that some parts of India will need this facility, we recommend that it should be done on a case-to-case basis and states should be allowed to decide on what should apply to them. In Kerala, there is no need to do so, unless warranted," added the health official.
 
 
