Nagpur: Going against norms, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) have employed daily wage sanitary workers (aiwajdars) as computer operators. Around 1,200 such workers have been diverted for other work. The incident of property tax revenue misappropriation in the civic body had brought to fore how tax recovery and assessment inspectors had appointed computer operators to operate the property tax online system. Further investigation by the department brought out that aiwajdars were also appointed by the officials at all ten zone offices to do the same job. The tax recovery and assessment employees had given their user IDs and passwords to these aiwajdars too. An NMC official told TOI that the aiwajdars were also working as computer operators in other departments like public works, birth and registration. “Even engineers from public works department have given their user IDs and passwords to aiwajdars. This is a wrong system as aiwajdars are not permanent employees of the NMC,” he said. With retirement of sanitary workers every year, the NMC had appointed 4,854 aiwajdars up to 2013. They were to come to work if any sanitary worker remained absent or was on leave. With the number of sanitary workers reducing to 3,600 in the last five years, aiwajdars started getting work almost every day.  The NMC officials started using the aiwajdars in other fields too. In 2012, TOI had reported how aiwajdars were driving vehicles of NMC officials. As per information gleaned from NMC officials and employees, aiwajdars are working in many departments at par with class-III and class-IV employees. Some are working as clerks in the head office too. “We cannot recruit daily wage workers as we have to make them ‘permanent’ after 240 days. By roping aiwajdars, we ensure work is not affected,” he said. However, sanitation work has taken a hit due to appointment of aiwajdars in different fields. An NMC official from the health department said, “With Hudkeshwar and Narsala being included in city limits, new roads and markets come up every year. The problems related to sewage lines is increasing with every passing day. Therefore, work of sanitation is being effected as aiwajdars are doing office work,” he said.