TRICHY: Amsavalli’s food cart located in front of the   office is always in demand and during summers the crowd swells to have her signature   (pearl millet gruel) and kezhviragu koozh (ragi gruel) in their most authentic form.

 Owning a food cart was not the 58-year-old’s plan initially. But due to her family’s financial difficulties she opened a cart in 2002. She got the idea to run a small business by selling koozh as she had a strong connection towards the dish. She remembers having koozh every day while growing up at   in Karur district. 
 
 “The idea of selling kezhviragu koozh and kambu koozh really worked because people wanted to have something healthy during summer. Though gaining the trust of the customers was initially tough, they soon realised that what I serve was prepared in a hygienic way and since then my business thrived,” Amsavalli said. Around 75 to 100 customers visit her stall every day on an average.
 
 For the forthcoming day’s sale, Amsavalli spends as much as four hours the previous night on preparation. “Koozh preparation for me is a strenuous process since I don’t use electric grinder. Instead I use the manual stone grinder,” she said.
 
 One glass of kambu koozh and kezhviragu koozh are sold at Rs20 respectively and one glass of buttermilk is also sold for the same price at her stall.
 
 One of the major attractions of her shop is that along with the koozh, she serves four varieties of pickle – sweet, spicy, lemon and citron (narthangai) pickle – and vadagam. “Some people say that they come to my stall just to taste the pickle,” she said. Amsavalli’s koozh shop is open from 10 am to 5 pm every day.
 
 The number of customers who get koozh parcelled have increased over the past few years, according to her. “As a result, sometimes koozh and buttermilk get over as early as 1 pm. On those days, I wind up the business early and take rest,” she said.
 
 Amsavalli also said that she gets immense satisfaction whenever kids visit her stall. “In today’s age, many kids don’t even know about koozh. I get very happy when youth and kids come and relish my dish,” she stated. 
 
 What: Kambu koozh (pearl millet gruel) and kezhviragu koozh (ragi gruel)
 
 Where: In front of Trichy Corporation office, Bharathidasan Salai
 
 When: 10 am to 5 pm
 
 
