CHANDIGARH: The   and   high court on Wednesday directed the UT   to appear before the court on April 3 and give details of the steps taken to end snatchings in Chandigarh.

 The high court impleaded the Central government as party in the case and issued notice to secretary, ministry of home affairs, and sought its reply by April 3.
 
 Calling Chandigarh police callous, the high court observed it seems it follows 9am-to-5pm work pattern. “Should people be told that they should not move out of their houses after 6 pm?” the court asked. The court observed people on duty in the PCR (police control room) were not active, directing them to pull up their socks.
 
 During the resumed hearing of the PIL filed by advocate   against the spurt in snatchings, a division bench of the high court spelt out it wants zero tolerance against the crime and directed police to ensure safety of citizens.
 
 The court also observed that despite clear directions to the police to act tough and stop snatchings, newspapers were full of the incidents daily. The court said the police have failed to follow the court directions.
 
 Police admitted a spike in chain snatchings, but listed steps taken to curb the crime. Interestingly, police reply said the “crackdown on drug trade and drug abuse in neighbouring Punjab has contributed to the rise in snatchings in the city”. Police also blamed marriage season for the rise in snatchings, saying “women come out in their best attire while wearing gold jewellery”. Police said most of the snatchers arrested so far were “repeat offenders” and drug addicts.
 
 Police said all SHOs were directed to conduct proper verification regarding the antecedents of paying guests (PGs). “It has been seen persons who stand as surety for such accused are either not traceable or are fictitious,” police said. This, however, prompted the court to tell police to give figures as to in how many cases sureties have been found not traceable or fake.
 
 The court was also told by   that despite repeated communications sent by the administration to the ministry of home affairs, the latter has not given positive response to ament the Indian Penal Code, 1860, to make snatching a “non-bailable” offence. The court then issued notice to secretary, ministry of home affairs, to file its reply by the next date of hearing.
 
