MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday refused to stay first semester LLB exams from January 29. But a division bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and Burgess Colabawalla provided relief to students who did not have enough time to prepare for their exams. It said students who choose not to give their exams can appear for the first semester papers along with their second semester exams. Those who remain absent for the January exams will not be treated as having failed or tainted with allowed to keep terms. 

 But the court directed students opting not to participate in the exams to inform their colleges before January 29. The court was hearing petitions by students who had cited delay in admission process for seeking postponement of exams. They claimed UGC rules state that a semester should have 90 days between admissions and exams.
 
 Though admissions to first year LLB had ended on December 22, 2017, the university had stuck to its exam dates for the first semester. Advocate Rui Rodrigues, counsel for the varsity, said around 6,612 students had been admitted to first year LLB courses this year. “Colleges have conducted extra classes to complete the syllabus. Postponing the exams would affect the other exams that have been scheduled one after the other,” said Rodrigues.
 
 The court said a balance had to be struck and referred to its order in the LLM exams issue. 
 
 “Ground realities cannot be ignored. Students who have been admitted on December 22 cannot be reasonably expected to be prepared for their exams in a month,” said the judges, but added that the rights of students who were prepared to give the exams on schedule could not be affected too. 
 
 Sachin Pawar, president, Law Students’ Council, applauded the court decision but urged the university to at least rearrange the time-table to give students a gap of three days in between every exam. “Most students are likely to give the exams now as there will be more pressure to take eight papers simultaneously in May. If the university would have postponed it by some days it would have been better. But giving us a break of three to four days between every exam, will also help us,” said a student.
 
 Most students and college principals were hoping for the exams to be postponed.
 
 Problems of first year law students this academic session are far from over. In addition to the exam chaos, students from Siddharth College in Fort have been running from pillar to post to submit a document for the admission process which concluded last month. “Many of us were unaware about the requirement of CET application form for admission and were told to get it at the eleventh hour. Since many were unable to procure it online again or did not retain it, the college told us to get a police complaint to submit it to the admission authorities,” said a student. They have been calling students in batches.
 
 Meanwhile, students are worried about not getting   on time for exams from Monday too. The tickets were uploaded late on Wednesday and students have a day to get their college stamp and principal’s signature.
 
 
 
 Twelve students have started an indefinite hunger strike near the examination house on Kalina campus since Tuesday. Nitin Mane, a fourth year student from Government Law College, who is on hunger strike, said the university should ensure quality assessment and early declaration of results. “They should compensate each affected student with Rs 10 lakh. There should be a judicial probe into the online assessment ‘scam’. We will continue our strike if all our demands are not met,” said Mane, who belongs to Progressive Students Movement. The students have already spent two nights on the campus. tnn
 
 
