Bhopal: A student of the Indian Institute of Science Education and Research (IISER) has lodged a complaint with the cybercrime cell alleging manipulation of the data of students’ elections council by hacking into his account. The institute authorities immediately cancelled the elections and conducted re-election on March 18.

 Complainant Manish Kumar told TOI the incident happened on February 6. “One of the persons associated with the election process server told me that I had won the elections. Few hours later, he called me again, this time to inform me that I had lost the contest,” alleged Kumar. 
 
 Kumar said data manipulation on computers through hacking is a serious matter as it can happen to other data related to research activity. “It is strange that third party who had no authority was keeping the entire data of the election with him. When I contacted him, he went on showing how data could be manipulated in someone’s favour,” alleged Kumar. He, however, refused to disclose the name of the ‘third party’ or ‘person.’
 
 Manish alleged that the institute poll management was done with malafide intention. “I had approached all authorities and they assured me action against the culprit on my complaint,” he said. However, he was dissatisfied over the assurance from officials. “The internal committee was set up to look into my grievance, but it did not address my concern,” Kumar said, adding, “I was shocked to know that someone hacked my mail and wrote an apology letter on my behalf for raising the issue of manipulation in election process.” He raised questioned the institute’s decision to hold election on March 18, when he was on leave.
 
 “Instead of probing and fixing the accountability against the culprit, the institute conducted re-election. I backed out from the process, and lodged a complaint with the cyber cell regarding the issue,” said Kumar. He alleged that mail which was hacked was created on college’s URL. 
 
 IISER Bhopal registrar KV Satya Murty confirmed TOI manipulation happened during the students’ council election. “An internal committee is probing the matter. Action will be taken against the culprit on the basis of the probe committee report,” Murty said. 
 
 
