NEW DELHI: January 15 will mark the commencement of the 106th edition of the Australian Open, where defending Champion Roger Federer will eyeing a record 20th Grand Slam. Over the years, the   has made for some of the greatest moments and before the ball gets rolling next Monday, TOI Sports identifies the five most memorable men’s finals contested at the tournament.

 
 
 
 
  
  (Getty Image)
 
 Czechoslovakian Ivan Lendl, two-time defending champion was defeated by Germany’s Boris Becker 6-1, 4-6, 4-6, 4-6. With a 5-4 lead in the ultimate set, and Lendl serving to stay in the match, the final game was a thriller. A casual forehand, a short rally and an outstanding smash later Becker was leading 40-0. With three championship points in hand and one aim in mind, Becker failed to capitalise the point and lost one to a passing shot by Lendl. He sealed the deal with a ripping down the line forehand winner, and jumped in air with joy. A hurried-yet-firm handshake later, Becker was crowned a maiden Australian Open Champion title. With   and John McEnroe stumbling in the semifinals, who knew Australian Open would get a new champion?
 
 
 
 
  
  (Getty Image)
 
 Another one of those matches where a new champion was crowned. In an all-American affair, Andre Agassi beat Pete Sampras 4–6, 6–1, 7–6(8–6), 6–4. Agassi skipped the Australian Open for the first half of his career, something that seems bizarre in retrospect as he went on to win four in his lifetime. The highlight though, remains his dramatic debut. A resilient Sampras, fighting back from a two-set trail against Jim Courier in the quarterfinal was in top form, but Agassi simply outperformed him. Going into the final, Sampras lead their head-to-head 7-5, 2-1 at majors. Though Sampras had the numbers in his favour, Agassi surprised him by using the then World No. 1’s own tactics against him. He attacked the net on back-to-back points, winning both to claim the set. Agassi described the fourth set as “A forgone a conclusion.” 
 
 “I keep my foot on the gas and win 6-4. Pete looks resolved. Too much hill to climb. In fact, he’s maddeningly unruffled as he comes to the net.”
 
 
 
  
  (AFP Photo)
 
 “Fedal” fans rate this match as one of the best ever in the history of the sport. Spain’s gem Rafael Nadal beat Swiss master Federer 7–5, 3–6, 7–6(7–3), 3–6, 6–2 in a match of epic proportions. Professional sport brings with it an intensity that can go beyond the physical aspects and for Federer the emotion was just too much in 2009. After losing the Australian Open championship to Nadal, an emotional Federer broke down as he was presented with his runner-up trophy. In the ultimate show of sportsmanship and respect for his rival, Nadal approached Federer and comforted him with a hug. This was Nadal's first Grand Slam hard court final while it was Federer's ninth, and at that time he was yet to lose in a Grand Slam hard court final. It was a hair-raising experience to watch the champions fight it out. 
 The match statistics showed Federer having a lower first serve percentage against Nadal (51% compared to 64%) and again he couldn't be as clinical on break point opportunities with only 31% break points converted for Federer whereas Nadal converted 43% of his break points. However, the total points by each player proved even closer than that at the aforementioned Wimbledon final, as Federer won one more point than Nadal (174 to 173) yet still lost this final.
 
 
 
  
  (AP Photo)
 
 It doesn’t get more intense than two of the best players in tennis history playing out an engrossing final. Serbia’s Novak Djokovic’s victory against Rafael Nadal in 2012 had it all – drama, exceptional skill and the longest Australian Open match ever played. How long? Five hours and 53 minutes before Djokovic emerged victorious with a 5–7, 6–4, 6–2, 6–7(5-7), 7–5 score.
 
 The longest grand slam in history and one of the most incredible, the two players were so exhausted afterwards that they almost collapsed during the presentation ceremony had the organisers not arranged for chairs at the exact moment. This match is central to the Djokovic–Nadal rivalry. Nadal called it the toughest loss of his career but the best match he ever played. And for Djokovic, it was his finest career win by his own admission. According to Tennis Channel and the Australian Open TV networks, it was the one of the most-watched finals despite ending late into the night locally.
 
 
 
 
  
  (AFP Photo)
 
 Eight years after their historic final in Melbourne, Federer and Nadal headlined the tournament again and turned back the clock. Ranked 17th and 9th in the world then respectively, Federer and Nadal dished out another gripping match, considering how injuries and lack of form had threatened their dominance in professional tennis. It was their record ninth meeting in a Grand Slam final in their rivalry and first in a Grand Slam final since the 2011 French Open. 
 
 Federer's entry in the 2017 Australian Open already drew substantial and critical media attention due to his six-month layoff from his knee injury, and Nadal’s four-month absence due to a troubled wrist. Top quality tennis was hard not to witness as both champions battled their way through the final. Federer’s reaction on winning summed it up. He jumping in the air like a child and tears of joy started rolling down his cheeks. It was his first grand slam title after 4.5 years after a five-set (6-4, 3-6, 6-1, 3-6, 6-3) epic at the  .
 
 "For me it's all about the comeback, about an epic match with Rafa again. Doing it here in Australia ...that I can still do it at my age after not having won a slam for almost five years. That's what I see. The last problem is the slam count. Honestly, it doesn't matter", said the 18-time grand slam champion humbly. 
 
 With the world of tennis changing and new talent sprouting up every now and then, it was no less than witnessing history for the tennis fraternity to watch their favourites play. “I’d like to congratulate Rafa on an amazing comeback,” Federer said at the trophy ceremony. “I would have been very happy to accept a draw tonight and share it with Rafa.” Absolute gold.
 
 
