PATNA: Alka Shrivastav and Silvia Vijay, who recently received bravery awards from chief minister  , were felicitated on Tuesday at an event organized by Social Awareness Committee of St Xavier’s Colleges on pre-celebration of International Women’s Day. 

 College principal Fr T Nishaant SJ felicitated the girls. Two plays -- ‘Damini: The Inspiration’ and ‘Ta Ka Hum Kuwaren Rahe?’ were also staged on the occasion. Chief guest Dr Vijayata Rani shared with the students her experience of battling Retinitis Pigmentosa since a very tender age and how she came out as a winner. “We have to recognize women’s contribution and must consider them as one of the stakeholders in the socioeconomic and socio-political development across the world,” she said.
 
 Workshop to mark Bose’s birthday: The physics department of   (IIT-P) organized a workshop on Tuesday to mark the 125th birth anniversary of physicist S N Bose, celebrated as National Science Day. 
 
 Prof Amitava Datta from University of Calcutta, Prof RK Kotnala from   (Delhi) and Prof Sourabh Basu from IIT Guwahati graced the occasion. 
 
 Physics department head Prof Utpal Roy highlighted the contribution of SN Bose in theoretical physics. Prof Dutta discussed about ‘Symmetry and super-symmetry’ while Prof Kotnala emphasized on ‘Hydroelectric solar cell’. Prof Basu talked on ‘Bose-Einstein condensate — A tribute to SN Bose’. Guest lectures were followed by a competition of PowerPoint presentations by the senior research students of IIT-P and a poster presentation by other research students.
 
 NAAC tag PU VC’s ‘topmost priority’: Patna University (PU) vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh on Tuesday said getting the 100-year-old varsity accredited by the   (NAAC) was his topmost priority.
 
 Inaugurating a 10-day orientation programme for NAAC assessment and accreditation at Wheeler Senate House, the VC said, “Unless the university is accredited with a good grade, no development programme can be initiated. PU is already facing problems in restoration of recognition of the courses run by its   owing to delay in NAAC accreditation.”
 
 
