PATNA:   Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary on Thursday relaxed rules of the House to take up questions of women MLAs first on the occasion of International Women’s Day.

 “As far as my knowledge goes, it is for the first time in the legislative history of the state that we decided to relax the rules of the House to take up questions of women members first,” Choudhary said.
 
 The women MLAs whose questions were taken up first for replies by ministers concerned included Lesi Singh, Sunita Singh Chauhan, Prema Choudhary, Aruna Devi, Baby Kumari, Ajiya Yadav, Amita Bhushan and  . 
 
 However, after the question hour was over,   member Bhola Yadav said the Speaker should have also allowed a woman member to hold his chair for the day. The Speaker later allowed JD (U) woman member of the House, Ranju Geeta, to hold the chair in the post-lunch session during the House debate on budgetary demand of the department of water resources department. JD (U)’s Lesi Singh had also been accorded this privilege in 2016.
 
 Earlier, before the House met for its morning session, women MLAs, cutting across party lines, assembled in the lawn in front of the state legislature building and demanded 33% reservation for women in Parliament and state legislatures. The   assembly has 28 women members. 
 
 The women MLAs entered the well of the House, shouting slogans related to rights of women. After around 10 minutes, they returned to their seats. The Speaker told them that the subject was a matter of Parliament.
 
 Women legislators in legislative council also took up the cause of women empowerment.
 
 JD (U) MLC Reena Devi thanked CM Nitish Kumar for introducing schemes like Cycle   and Poshak Yojana and providing reservation to women in government jobs and panchayats.
 
 Former CM and RJD national vice-president Rabri Devi raised the issue of safety of women in the country and rued that even six-month-old toddlers are being raped. She stressed on the security of dalit women.
 
 State social welfare minister Kumari Manju Verma asked all the political parties to support 33% reservation for women in Parliament and state legislatures. 
 
 
