HYDERABAD: Pedestrians criss-crossing roads in the information technology (IT) corridor, including Madhapur, Financial District and  , beware! With no proper walkways, footpaths, foot-over-bridges (FOBs) and poor enforcement of speed limits, pedestrians are at a huge risk of losing their lives. However,there is hope now as traffic police have drawn up a plan to curb pedestrian-related accidents.

 
 With the proposed merger of 30 gram panchayats, the new city, comprising the IT corridor, is set to integrate with   and more chaos is in store for walkers.
 
 According to data released by Cyberabad traffic police recently, pedestrians and two-wheeler riders formed majority of victims of fatal accidents in the IT corridor. Till March 31, 35 pedestrians and 37 motorists lost lives in fatal accidents, the data revealed.
 
 "As I do not drive a vehicle, I walk to the nearest stop and take a bus to work. However, I find the traffic-heavy road too dangerous for pedestrians, especially the streatch near the Madhapur police station circle. The situation becomes even more chaotic during the peak hours. There is no proper zebra crossing, while none of the vehicles stop for pedestrians to cross the roads,"  , an accountant and a resident of Kavuri Hills, Madhapur, told 
 .
 
 Traffic police on Tuesday held a review meeting and prepared an action plan to reduce pedestrian-related accidents.
 
 "We are giving top priority to pedestrian safety first. We have formed three teams, each comprising five members, for ensuring safety of pedestrians. Madhapur, which has become a heavily populated area, has become the most accident-prone area in the IT corridor.
 
 Though most accidents are non-fatal, pedestrians become victims of accidents in the Cyberabad police commissionerate li- mits," Cyberabad additional deputy commissioner of poli- ce (Traffic) Praveen Ku- mar said. Seve- ral pedestrians have complained about lack of proper footapaths. "Either there are no footpaths or the ones that are there will be occupied by hawkers. Where do we walk then? We have to walk on the road, meandering through vehicles zipping at high speeds," KLakshmi, an ITprofessional from Gachi- bowli, said.
 
 "Traffic police personnel’s duty ends by 10pm mostly. Most accidents occur on internal roads due to drunk driving or speeding between 10pm and 2am," added Praveen , a commuter.
 
