Around 50   from across the country pledged over Rs 55,000 crore   in the state on Thursday. From bringing   to strengthen the state’s cyber security to providing platforms for startups and entrepreneurs, and setting up of electronic waste disposal plants, a number of   were signed on the second day of the investors’ summit.

 Ravi Mahlawat of ECS Corporation signed two Mo-Us worth Rs 300 crore with the state government. These include setting up of an e-waste disposal plant in Sahibabad with Shreeton India Limited (UP government’s nodal agency) to ethically dispose of hazardous electronic waste. “Currently there is no e-waste plant in UP. Ours will be first end-to-end unit that will collect e-waste from government department, dismantle the hardware with our expertise and then send the material to our Ahmedabad plant for scientific disposal,” he said. The second MoU is for setting up a cyber security lab in Sahibabad to train UP police.
 
 Ram Ganesh, founder and CEO of Hyderabad-based Cybereye company said that they will bring Israeli technology. “Founder of the company Cyber Security Group of Israel has joined hands with us. We plan to set up a cyber security emergency unit through which anyone can inform cyber police about a threat and a rapid response will be provided. It will also continuously monitor threats just like the Israel model,” said Ganesh.
 
 For creating jobs and helping startups, F6S Network Limited will launch an ‘alpha card’ that will provide Rs 6.5 crores to almost 200 startups in UP in a year. Country head of the London-based company, Nitin Bajaj, said, “We will digitise incubators and accelerators in the startup sector, providing a technology platform to startups, entrepreneurs and investors to locate one another. Another ‘Corporate invitation program’ will connect startups in UP to global corporates for investment.”
 
 Co-founder of Fourth Ambit, Shyam Menon said, “We will target all higher education centres in UP, making them part of the 11,000 colleges we are already partnering with, to bridge the gap between startups, students, entrepreneurs and investors irrespective of the student’s stream of study.”
 
