NEW DELHI: It will soon be easier for international business magnates to fly in and out of India in their private jets, without waiting for the clearance for a long time. 

 
 The Directorate General of Civil Aviation ( ) has proposed same-day clearance for foreign-registered private planes and charter jets to fly to India and has sent this recommendation to the aviation ministry. Since security clearance for such flights is essential, the regulator's proposal will be referred to the committee of secretaries for clearance. Sources say this issue, long a bug bear with foreign business leaders, is likely to be cleared while taking care of the security implications.
 
 This is the second move by the B S Bhullar-headed DGCA to make it easier for private planes and charter jets to fly in and out of the country. A few months back, the regulator had removed the pre-condition of taking clearance from the regulatory agency (called YA number) for Indian-registered charter flight or private jets to fly out of the country. Operators of Indian-registered charter planes now simply need to file the flight plan with air traffic control and operate their flights.
 
 In the second step, the DGCA has now recommended to make it easier for foreign-registered charter planes and business jets to fly in and out of India. Currently, they find it tough to do so due to a maze of rules. The situation is worse if international business leaders or foreign high net worth individuals have a last-minute travel plan on a weekend when sarkari offices here are closed and unable to give the required clearances.
 
 About two years back, VistaJet - one of the world's largest private jet charter companies - had said getting clearances on a weekend to even overfly India was tough. Thomas Flohr, founder and chairman of this multinational company, had to fly from Myanmar to Dubai on a Monday in 2016. The company had sought DGCA nod to overfly India on the preceding Friday. But being a weekend, the permission did not come in time and he had to fly to Dubai by circumventing India, which took extra three hours. Flohr has said such things harm India's image especially when the country is trying to get foreign investment. 
 
 "The issue of giving same-day clearance to foreign charters will be taken up by the committee of secretaries due to security implications and is likely to be cleared. Some safeguards will ensure that foreign-registered charters get speedy clearance without compromising security," said a senior official. 
 
 The lengthy clearances were introduced after the sensational Purulia arms drop case of December 1995 when unauthorised arms were dropped from an Antonov An-26 aircraft in Purulia district of West Bengal. 
 
 
