PATNA: The Bharat bandh on Monday claimed a newborn his life in Vaishali district and caused immense problems to the patients in reaching health facilities across the state. 

 The newborn died as the ambulance carrying him from Mahnar primary health centre (PHC) to the sadar hospital got stuck in a road blockade at Ambedkar Chowk in Vaishali district. He was born on Monday morning only. Mahnar police station SHO Abhay Kumar told this reporter the kin of the infant, who are residents of Lavapur Narayan village, approached the police station after the child was declared brought dead at the sadar hospital.
 
 “Doctors at the PHC said the newborn was in a serious condition and was referred to Vaishali sadar hospital at 8:45am. By the time the ambulance reached the hospital at 11am, the child had expired,” Kumar said.
 
 It takes 45 minutes to reach the district hospital from Mahnar PHC. Vaishali civil surgeon Dr I D Ranjan said the child had breathlessness and was referred to the sadar hospital for further treatment.
 
 The health services at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital ( ) started late as its staff could not reach the hospital on time due to lack of conveyance and road blockades in and around the state capital. “Most of us experienced traffic jam caused by protesters at Bhootnath Road turning, where they were also burning tyres. We had to take a different route to reach the hospital,” said a hospital employee.
 
 The protesters had also blocked Ashok Rajpath near Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH). An official from the hospital administration said contrary to 2,000 to 2,500 patients visiting the outpatient departments on normal days, only around 1,500 patients were registered on Monday.
 
 Token strike by medicos, docs
 
 Medical students and doctors across the state observed a token strike in support of the nationwide agitation against Union cabinet’s approval to the draft of National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill 2017. An official of NMCH said apart from the bandh, health services were also affected by the strike called by resident doctors at 10am.  , IPD and OT remained closed and only emergency, intensive care unit (ICU) and neonatal ICU were allowed to function. “Junior doctors at the hospital didn’t allow patient registrations at the counter, which led to a spat between several attendants and junior doctors,” the official said.
 
 Similar protests were observed at PMCH and   and Hospital, Bhagalpur, where OPD and IPD were boycotted by the junior doctors in protest against the NMC bill. 
 
 
