KOLKATA:   in the city are ready to revive their   plans, which they had shelved for a year as they bore the brunt of mob violence and tried to fend off allegations of medical negligence.

 At least three of them, including a couple that faced several attacks over the past 12 months, are augmenting capacity through new units and more beds at their Kolkata centres and other Bengal districts. The tumultuous period, they believe, is over and a surge in patient numbers is imminent despite the state government pulling out of the Centre’s National Health Protection Scheme (NHPS) that seeks to provide annual insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh to 10 crore low-income families.
 
 Medica Superspecialty Hospital, which has plans to set up a cancer hospital in the city this year, is contemplating more units in Bengal and use them as a springboard across the region. “There will be a spurt in the number of patients seeking treatment in   hospitals because of NHPS despite the state’s opposition. Even if the scheme is not implemented in Bengal, we have patients coming here from other states and even neighbouring countries like Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. Their number has been spiralling. So we need to expand, to be able to cater to this increased load. It had to be put on hold because the climate was not conducive since early 2017. But things are changing and we can’t wait any longer,” Medica   chairperson Alok Roy said. Medica is planning hospitals in Jharkhand, Bihar and Odisha apart from new units in Bengal’s districts. “Nearly 40% of the population will now be able to afford private healthcare, which calls for major capacity augmentation. We would like to have units in Bengal districts as well,” Roy said.
 
 AMRI has already launched an “internal expansion” programme, adding beds to its existing units. It plans to explore new units as well to meet the growing demand. “We shall launch a 250-bed unit at Mukundapur this year. Our units at Dhakuria and Salt Lake, too, will soon have more beds and we have already started working towards that. We are also surveying the land in our possession to set up new units. We believe that the patient number will rise irrespective of whether insurance schemes come into effect,” AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua said.
 
 Belle Vue Clinic will add 70 beds to its existing unit at Loudon Street by April 2019. It has started constructing a 100-bed eye hospital in Rajarhat, which may be thrown open in March 2019. A 400-bed multi-speciality hospital is also being planned. “We were left scared by the repeated attacks on hospitals and doctors. But things are improving and we believe that the climate is now conducive for expansion,” Belle Vue CEO P Tondon said.
 
 Charnock Hospital has just completed an expansion project despite the “climate not being conducive”. It remains open to further expansions though things have not yet changed so much for the better, managing director Prashant Sharma says.
 
 Ruby Hospital said it would wait for things to settle down further. “It remains to be seen if the rates of the centre’s insurance scheme are going to be the same as the ones under existing central government schemes. They ought to be sustainable for private hospitals. Private hospitals in Bengal are likely to have around 1.5 crore additional patients,” said Subhashish Datta of Ruby.
 
 Private hospitals here operated at around 80% of their capacity on an average, Fortis Hospital medical superintendent Sambit Saha pointed out. “They remain filled to capacity for at least three-four months a year when there is a sudden spurt in patient load. Dengue outbreaks in recent years are a case in point. So we must augment capacity,” said Saha.
 
 Bhagirathi Neotia Women and Child Care Centre rolled out a new unit in Rajarhat this month. If the rates under the proposed insurance scheme were feasible, it could to add more centres, Bhagirathi Neotia Women and Child Care Centre director P L Mehta said.
 
 
