In a fast-changing world, where geo-political compulsions put countries on paths of conflict, his is the voice of conscience. Age has not dimmed the genius of  . Much of that is in evidence in the documentary, The Argumentative Indian, which director   has made on the scholar and Nobel 
laureate. We caught up with Suman after a special screening of his film at The Tollygunge Club. Excerpts:
 
 
 I had shot in 2002 for this film and the reason why I shot again after 15 years was because I was feeling extremely disturbed by whatever was happening around us. The country’s moral compass, ethics stopped meaning anything. Then I thought, since I am a filmmaker, I must do something about it. I thought of continuing with the documentary that I had shot long back majorly because I wanted to know what someone of the calibre of Amartya Sen was thinking about the current events that bothered me.
 
 
 When the controversy broke in August 2017, he initially didn’t say much, maintaining that it was my film and I would be the right person to talk about it. Later, when he finally gave an official statement, he criticised the present dispensation. At a personal level, he congratulated me for putting the project together, saying that he was amazed that I didn’t step back and agree to the cuts. He had probably thought that I would buckle under the immense pressure.
 
 
 As I’ve said, the initial reason for doing the documentary was my discomfort with what was happening around us across the world. For me, Amartyada remains the moral compass, the voice of conscience of the world. After the controversy over the release, I must tell you honestly that it has actually worked in favour of the film. Because of the censorship issue, the entire country and even abroad, people know about the film. Media has written about it extensively and to that effect, the purpose of making this film has been served — it has gone out to the people.
 As for the controversy itself, there is a big political backdrop given Amartyada’s exchange of words with our Prime Minister. I feel he is an uncomfortable presence in this country and for the current government. I think it is the richness of our democracy that there are opposing voices of such big stature. However, CBFC had asked us to beep a few words. We had to settle for beeping two words. The film got delayed because, in our country, it is very hard for a documentary to get a theatrical release. I was quite adamant about getting that and hence waited for the right time.
 
 
 Firstly, I must say I feel very privileged to be a part of a city that welcomes a documentary like this with open arms. I saw posters here and there, and this happens only in Kolkata. Documentaries get very few shows generally, but here, the scene is much better. After the theatrical release, the film will be available online as well. We will try and reach as many people as we can through different platforms
 
 
 Amartya Sen is my academic grandfather, as the interviewer, Kaushik Basu, is my guide and also his student. We are all connected to  . So it was a very intimate shoot. As a person he is very unique, he is very Bengali from within and conversation with him has always been very interesting. When I was thinking of making the film, I thought of adding an ‘adda flavour’ to the conversation between Kaushik Basu and Amartya Sen and that worked perfectly.
 
 
 From the beginning I was very clear that I want to focus on the work of Amartya Sen. So his personal life did not feature within the field of my enquiry. At the same time, there are intimate details like how he was diagnosed with oral cancer while he was still in his teens. But even there, I have focused on the researcher in him, highlighting how he read medical books to diagnose himself!
 As for Jean Draze, he is very shy. I had planned to shoot him. When I came to India, I was supposed to meet Jean after interviewing Manmohan Singh. However, he had left for some village in Uttar Pradesh which was going through a drought. Such is the charisma of his character, he never cared about the interview instead went ahead with helping the ones in need. It is my loss that I could not incorporate him into the film. About Jagdish Bhagwati, I approached him, but he refused to be a part of the documentary.
 
 
 People, I think. When I leave Kolkata, I miss my production unit and when I come here I miss my academic friends. But I revel in this commonality of people; maybe the fields are different but the aspirations and behaviours are same.
 
 
 Of course, I want to make a documentary on   and that will be very close to my heart. I have been buy with my feature films and have not been able to sit and plan that. But it is on my mind and I will definitely do it someday.
 
 
 
