KOLKATA: At a meeting attended by headmasters of 39 government schools and two primary teachers’ training institutes ( ) on Wednesday, the school education department clearly instructed all headmasters to upload an annual confidential report ( ) on time. The government is also preparing a headmasters’ manual for government schools.

 “These apart, we also discussed the vacancies of both teaching and non-teaching staff. Even the vacant positions of librarians have been discussed. We have informed the government that as many as 30% of the teaching posts are vacant, along with 75% of the non-teaching posts. The government took note of the matter,” said a headmaster who attended the meeting.
 
 
 He added that it was also discussed that if the candidates for the teaching posts were recruited through the   ( ), it would be a lengthy procedure of at least three years. “We have demanded that the waiting time be reduced and the process of hiring a teacher be made easier. The department has assured us it would make quicker appointments,” added another headmaster.
 
 
 The meeting started from 11am and continued till 3:30pm. “For Class XI admissions, a centralized procedure had been initiated by the department last year. The admission forms are uploaded on the department’s portal, which can be downloaded for free and then a candidate can apply to various schools. This year, too, the same procedure will be followed. But we have requested the department to give adequate time for students to apply,” a source said.
 
 
 The annual confidential report, which the headmasters often default on, henceforth has to be submitted on time. “From June 1 this year, the ACR needs to be submitted online,” added the source.
 
 
 A headmasters’ manual is also being prepared for government schools since their structure, rules and regulations are different from aided and sponsored institutes. The existing government orders related to schools will be compiled, so that the headmasters can stay informed.
 
 
 The school heads have been told to submit their fund requirements for infrastructure development. “ We have been assured that all payments and assistance will be offered to us so that the government schools become better than the private ones,” said a teacher.
 
 
 The department has also urged the headmasters to inculcate leadership qualities among students.
 
