NEW DELHI: Amid drama and a posse of policemen standing guard outside the venue,  , along with two other senior officers, attended a meeting with chief minister   and his   for the first time since the alleged attack on the   last week.

 The unprecedented deployment of cops —15 in uniform and a few in plain clothes — to ensure the “safety” of the three bureaucrats itself suggested that the cabinet meeting didn’t signal a thaw in ties between the bureaucracy and the political executive.
 
 
  
  
 
 Sources said the meeting was marked by “more silence than speech” and was wound up sooner than usual, though not before finalising the schedule of the budget session.
 
 Hours before the meeting, CS’s letter to Kejriwal highlighted the sense of insecurity among officers. Prakash said he would attend the meeting “based on the assumption that the CM will ensure that there is no physical attack and verbal assault on the officers.”
 
 The CS made it clear he was coming for the meeting because finalising the budget session dates and passing the budget are important for government’s functioning.
 
 Other officers who attended the meeting were finance secretary S N Sahai and general administration department secretary M KParida.
 
 The cops deployed for the meeting at the CM’s office expressed surprise at the assignment.
 
 “We were asked to be present close to the meeting venue so that we can detect any unusual sounds or unpleasant happenings during the cabinet meeting and respond to these quickly,” said a cop.
 
 When the CM arrived at secretariat to attend the meeting, he encountered a group of bureaucrats wearing black bands silently protesting at the arcade of the secretariat. The protest was led by senior officials from finance, home, general administration, urban development, transport and power departments.
 
 Delhi government bureaucrats made it clear that Tuesday’s meeting between the CS and CM was not a precursor to a rapprochement. While supporting the CS’s decision because “public interest is paramount and the budget exercise is crucial to the functioning of the government”, the Joint Forum of Delhi government employees — representing officials from IAS AGMUT cadre, DANICS and DAAS employees — clarified that the boycott of all meetings with the exception of “extremely crucial” ones will continue till the CM apologies for last week’s alleged attack.
 
 Claiming that there was absolutely no slackening of work due to the boycott of meetings with the political executives, the joint forum reiterated that they will continue to boycott the meetings while continuing to work through formal and written means of communication.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi government officers continued to observe a five-minute silence at work in the afternoon in protest against the alleged assault.
 
 “This silent protest at all the departments of the government and all the offices across the city will continue,” said a member of the joint forum.
 
 
