PANAJI: The music was blaring: Pop, disco and even some trance in quick succession. And it could be heard as far as the parking lot at Fr Agnel College at Pilar. Nothing surprising at a ‘college function’. But just that this function was with a difference. It was meant to be a   event, so rare for the college-going kids that it was supposed to be a head-turner.

 And it did live up to its hype—on the ground. Never mind the out-of-sync music, on the field, it was tradition writ all over at the ‘Traditional   Festival’, organised by Fr Agnel College at Pilar on Saturday.
 
 “The essence of traditional sports is on the verge of extinction. The modern generation is not aware of these games. There is an urgent need to revive such games in order to keep the identity and heritage of our forefathers alive,” says Agnelo Dias, director of physical education at the college.
 
 The festival, where seven colleges took part, started with milani, a game that is played with marbles. The boys, not all of whom were well-versed with the game, tried their best. Some didn’t have a clue, others simply tried and quite a few got lucky as they tried to fill the marble in the five ‘mills’ (little hole) along the ground.
 
 The game required no physical activity. Just a little bit of skill would do the trick. Up next was doryani (skipping rope race) where both boys and girls couldn’t survive without the requisite skill, speed and strength. 
 
 The participants did plenty of practice ahead of the event but only those who had tried their hand at the race before could complete the 100 metres obstacle. First timers quickly fell by the wayside and at least one ended up injuring her knee.
 
 The cycle tyre race was another spectacle. Each participant was provided with a cycle tyre and was asked to cover 100 metres with the tyre along the ground—prodded by a stick.
 
 Athletes like Varsha Vagh are experienced campaigners. Her college, Government College (Quepem), has won top honours for two years in a row and her athletic ability coupled with knowledge of the traditional sport certainly helped.
 
 “It was super fun. We’ve played these games at home, so it was a little bit easier,” says Varsha.
 
 Tanvi T Vargaonkar’s athletic ability helped her win gold in the langddi race. Tanvi uses langddi (hopping with one leg) for her triple jump training and her efforts helped Dempo College of Commerce and Economics, Panaji, open their gold-medal winning account.
 
 “For someone who uses this for training, this was easy (for me), but not everyone can do that. We’ve played this game at home,” the Carambolim resident later told TOI.
 
 But not everyone like Tanvi knew how these games are played. At the start of every event, organisers had to repeatedly inform them of the rules, and when someone didn’t understand, the referee—as always—had to take the blame.
 
 “This was one sports event that we thoroughly enjoyed. It’s important for all college-going kids to know the games that our ancestors played and enjoyed. To me, this was entertainment unlimited,” says Riza Pereira from Quepem.
 
 Most of the fun was towards the end of the festival when logorio made its debut.   bal helped the boys flex their muscles, but the girls took great pride in logorio, a game involving seven broken pieces of tiles all piled together that had to be struck by the players—with a tennis ball—and then put back in its original position. A team event of four-players each, the seven participating colleges strategised, argued, fought with their opponents and even accused the referee of bias.
 
 There were moments to remember, too. When a player’s sandal went flying in the air, the crowd burst into uncontrolled laughter. Everyone took that sportingly, and when it all ended, they sat together and shared a meal.
 
 This was tradition at its best.
 
 
