KOLKATA: The Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the   for the past one week finally managed to arrest the mastermind,  . The cops picked him up from near his   in South 24 Parganas in a   on Wednesday.

 
 “With the arrest of the main accused, we can now finally say we have reached the business-end of the racket. Ghorui’s questioning will be crucial in unveiling the modus operandi,” said SP (South 24 Parganas) Koteswar Rao.
 
 An examination of Ghorui’s laptop has revealed that he was into online trade in carcass meat and sold it to clients in other states and abroad. “Mangso Bishu”, as Ghorui is popularly known as in the Rajabazar-Maniktala area, had rented the Rajabazar cold storage a few years ago, apparently to run a prawn and fish business out of the premises. In reality, he had been sourcing carcass meat from dumping grounds in the city and suburbs, cutting them into small pieces, preserving them in the cold storage with various reagents, blending them with edible meat and supplying them to distributors in neat packets. In fact, police said, Ghorui learnt the ropes of cutting meat and preserving them from butchers and vendors at Maniktala and Topsia markets. “He had access to markets in the entire Kakinara-Jagaddal-Titagarh belt and we fear his carcass meat consignments may have made their way to shops there,” said an officer.
 
 Besides Ghorui, who was produced in Alipore court and remanded in police custody till May 8, his close aide, Md Eklak
 
 (47), was also rounded up from his J K Ghosh Road home. “We have handed him over to the South 24 Pargana police after we found his connection with the Rajabazar cold storage,” said a senior IPS officer at Lalbazar. Eklak, said an SIT officer, was being questioned.
 
 A raid on Ghorui’s home has led the police to believe he knew quite well about the chemicals and reagents that he used to preserve the carcass meat. “With his in-depth knowledge about the chemicals, he stored the carcass meat and processed it before supplying it to various markets,” an officer said. According to a source, the carcass meat brought in from dumpyards were immediately processed. “The fatty organs would be carved out and the rest treated in formalin. The meat would subsequently be treated in chemicals like calcium propionate, aluminium phosphate and aluminium sulphate. While calcium propionate is used in several food items like bread, baked products and even processed meat, its use has to be regulated. Sodium aluminium phosphate too is used in food, but there is a debate over the possibility of it causing dementia,” the source said.
 
 Police, however, fear some even more lethal chemicals might have been used. “The questioning of three arrested accused, Bishu, Sunny Malik and Sarafat Hossain, who were in charge of carving out the meats and sending them to the ice factory, indicated certain sulphates—like lead and aluminium—could have been used. We can’t jump to a conclusion until the reports from the central forensic lab comes in,” said an officer. SP Rao said they had asked the lab for an early report. “Till then, no one need to jump to any conclusion,” he said.
 
 
