HYDERABAD: Chief minister   met Union home minister   in New Delhi on Monday to seek the issuance of a fresh presidential order for new administrative zones and multi-zones under section 371-D of the Constitution.

 
 He pointed out that in order to take administration closer to people, the Telangana government had reorganised the erstwhile 10 districts into 31 districts on October 11, 2016. He said there was a need for adjusting zones and multi-zones.
 
 
  
 
 In a representation submitted to the home minister, KCR also enclosed a comprehensive proposal for making necessary amendments to the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Organisation of local cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment Order, 1975 as required by the Telangana state.
 
 The chief minister said under section 97 of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, the provisions made under Article 371-D had been continued in Telangana state to provide equitable opportunities to the people belonging to different parts of the state. He said the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment Organisation of Local Cadres and Regulation of Direct Recruitment Order, 1975 (commonly known as presidential order) was operational in the erstwhile state of AP provided for six zones. After bifurcation, zones V and V1 are within Telangana while other zones are in the successor state of AP.
 
 In the presidential order for forming multi-zones, the departments were separated. While one set is for all departments, which has already been announced by the state government, another set is exclusively for the police department.
 
 “The meeting with Union me minister Rajnath Singh was important as it the home ministry which has to approve the adjusting of zones in the new Telangana state. We met the home minister on the issue,” Karimnagar MP, B Vinod Kumar told TOI. He said if an appointment with the Prime Minister materialised, it was also planned to meet him but it did not.
 
 Asked what response Rajnath Singh gave for the representation submitted to him on the new zones formation, Vinod Kumar said it would be necessary for the union home ministry to approve and give the clearance. “He will have do it,” he said. Along with Vinod Kumar, the CM spent nearly 40 minutes with Rajnath Singh explaining to him about the new zonal system that would have to be introduced in Telangana state.
 
 
