Nagpur: 58-year-old Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Vijay Hinge, who is posted as deputy conservator of forest (DyCF) with land records at Van Bhavan here, has made the forest department proud by completing 600km cycling event in 28 hours. While many of the young participants backed out owing to trouble, Hinge was among the six participants who completed the contest in record time. He was the senior-most member of the group that took part in the event. The event, organized by Audax India Randonneurs, a France-based NGO promoting cycling in India, included covering 600km distance from Nagpur-Deori-Nagpur (300km) followed by Nagpur-Amravati-Nagpur (300km), both in 40 hours. “I completed the event in 38 hours but the cycling was done for 28 hours and 20 minutes only. The overall timing included the time taken in eating food and keeping myself hydrated. I also guided the other participants on way,” Hinge said. Hinge, who hails from Pune, has been into cycling for last 8 years. “In Pune, I have also formed a group of riders called ‘Young Seniors’. It includes people from 58 to 79 age group,” he said. In January 2016, Hinge with 10 other senior members of the group had also completed a 1,300km cycle event around all tiger reserves here and Vidarbha region by visiting Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Gondia- Bhandara, Amravati and Nagpur districts. “We completed the Vidarbha tour in 9 days. The basic idea was to promote state’s 50 crore plantation project among people and save environment,” Hinge said. Hinge has pedalled from Pune to Bengalaru, Kanyakumari and Ratnagiri in the past. “I ride over 50km daily and also walk a lot. Many youngsters feel motivated when they see a senior citizen like me cycling. They have taken to cycling as an exercise thinking when I can do, why can’t they?” he added. To encourage youngsters in the forest department, Hinge will participate in 640km Pune-Goa cycling competition called as ‘Deccan Cliffhanger’ slated in November-December this year. 