AMRITSAR: The ongoing controversy at the Chief   took a turn for the worse on Wednesday when  , 52, vice president of the organisation, allegedly committed suicide inside his SUV with his licensed .32 pistol. 

 The 115-year-old institution hit the headlines on December 26 after Inderpreet's father, Charanjit Singh Chadha who was also president of the institution, was accused of sexually harassing a woman principal of a school the institution ran. A video, allegedly of him with the principal, had also gone viral on social media.
 
 
  
 
 Additional deputy commissioner of police,  , told TOI that   had gone to meet an associate at   colony on Airport Road in Amritsar and had sent his driver to find out if the person was at home. 
 
 When he was alone in the car, he allegedly shot himself on the right side of his head. The driver had rushed him to a private hospital on Airport Road where he was declared brought dead. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Amrik Singh Powar said they found a detailed suicide note in the car where Inderpreet has talked about several court cases related to the police and his family and also given names of people who were apparently harassing him. “We will look into the legal aspects and record statements of family members and then register a case,” Powar said. Besides running the Chief Khalsa Diwan, Inderpreet and Charanjit ran a large business empire of several hotels, malls and farmhouses in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Delhi and other places. 
 
 Inderpreet and his father were not only removed as vice president and president of the Chief Khalsa Diwan but also terminated from the primary membership of the institution after a case of sexual harassment and intimidation was registered against them. The case was filed on the complaint of the woman principal seen in the leaked video. 
 
 Sources said Inderpreet had some heated arguments with his relatives on Tuesday. On the same day, he was asked tough questions by special investigation team probing the sexual harassment case. He had already alleged that some of his relatives may be behind the questionable video being leaked on social media.
 
 
