PATNA: In a shocking incident, a scooty-borne girl student of   ( ), Patna, was crushed to death by a speeding truck at Dashrath Mor on   under Gardanibagh police station area on Thursday.

 The accident occurred when the girl, Priti Bharti (21), a resident of Mahavir Colony under Beur police station area in the city, was on way to college. “The girl was run over by the truck when she was changing lanes,” sub-inspector of Gardanibagh police station Narendra Kumar said, adding the girl was rushed to a private hospital where the doctors declared her brought dead.
 
 An agitated mob torched the truck. Its driver, however, managed to escape.
 
  assistant professor Jayant Kumar said Priti was studying in the sixth semester of the textile designing branch. “She was a bright and a hardworking student,” he added.
 
 Cops for fresh medical test: Police have requested the district civil surgeon to constitute a medical board to re-examine the 17-year-old girl, who was allegedly gang-raped near GPO roundabout here on Saturday night.
 
 “The minor girl was examined at New Gardiner Hospital, but the medical report did not confirm rape. We want her to be re-examined by a medical board,” DSP (law and order) Shibli Nomani said.
 
 Meanwhile, police have recovered male contraceptive and other evidences from the spot where the girl was allegedly gang-raped. The evidences will be sent to Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Patna for test.
 
 Two of the accused – Chotan Kumar and Feku Kumar – were arrested from the spot after a local vegetable vendor alerted a patrolling party of   police station after hearing the screams of the girl, a resident of Keshawpur village under the Hilsa police station area in Nalanda district. Two other accused – Bauwa Kumar and Monu Kumar – had surrendered before a special court set up under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on Wednesday.
 
 The DSP said police would also get all accused medically examined. “The girl’s father was cross-examined by police following allegations that he had sold her to someone for Rs 5 lakh. Primary investigations have revealed that the girl had left her village on April 11 without informing anyone. Her father has told police that she had left her house at least thrice in the past without informing anyone,” Nomani said.
 
 
