CHANDIGARH: After residents complained about the small size of   distributed by the MC for segregation of wet and dry waste, civic officials asked residents to buy their own dustbins. Segregation of dry and wet waste on a daily basis from households is one of the key parameters in the Swachh Survekshan 2018. The corporation distributed around 2.5 lakh dustbins, two per house, after the project of segregation of waste at source was launched by UT administrator V P   on June 5 last year. The MC distributed dustbins free of cost to residents at a cost of Rs 2 crore. Despite this, the project is yet to pick up pace.

 A team constituted by the corporation conducted a survey from January 5 to January 7 to take feedback from residents on the segregation project and residents complained about the small size of dustbins. Members of residents welfare association also maintained that sanitation workers are not trained in segregation of waste.
 
 Addressing mediapersons, MC commissioner   accepted the shortcomings and said efforts are being made to resolve them. On the small size of the dustbins, Yadav said the corporation distributed dustbins for purposes of awareness and that residents would have to buy dustbins on their own. 
 
 The corporation is preparing for the Swachh Survekshan 2018, the first pan-India sanitation survey. The survey, which will assess sanitation levels in all cities and towns of the country, is the largest of its kind in the world. It will affect the lives of about 40 crore urban citizens. A team of the ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation will visit the city for the purpose.
 
 Under the survey, the city will be ranked on 71 sanitation-related parameters carrying different weightage, for a total of 4,000 marks. The total score has been doubled to prevent crowding of cities with very marginal differences in scores, which happened in the previous survey. Marks for each component of sanitation will be assigned based on rigorous assessment of the claims of city governments, citizen feedback and independent observation.
 
 In preparation for the survey, the corporation has started night sweeping in the commercial area and engaged self-employed waste pickers. GPS-based vehicle tracking of garbage has also been introduced and compartmentalised bins or twin bins with labels have been placed every 500m in commercial areas. Besides, the MC has introduced a heavy spot fine to curb littering. The corporation has also improved the condition of community and public toilets, which have been uploaded on  .
 
 
