BHOPAL: In an unusual gesture, hundreds of women assembled at the   on Thursday to urge chief minister   not to close down ‘ahatas’(courtyard adjacent to liquor shops) for people to booze in the state as proposed under the new excise policy for the next financial year. Chouhan had himself announced closure of ‘ahatas’ in the wake of threat they posed to law & order situation, particularly women security.

 However, women associated with Jagrit Mahila Sangthan feel otherwise. Their leader   has no doubt that closure of ‘ahatas’ would turn out to be counter-productive and security of women would be jeopardized further. “More than 2.5 to 3 lakh people booze in the ‘ahatas’ of Bhopal everyday. If ‘ahatas’ are closed, they would be forced to booze by the roadside, parks and other public places or booze at home. In both the conditions, they would pose a greater threat for women outside and also at home. Besides, watching their elders booze would leave children of a family traumatized,” she said.
 
 A three-page memorandum addressed to chief minister interestingly draws an analogy between public toilets being constructed under PM’s   and ‘ahatas’. “As public toilets are a must to keep the city clean and prevent people from defecating in open , ‘ahatas’ are a must to keep boozers restricted to certain points and not allow them roam all over the city” read the memorandum.
 
 Maintaining law & order situation is also far easier for police so long as ‘ahatas’ are there, contended these women in their memorandum as they can reach anywhere easily if fight breaks out between two individuals or two group of people after boozing because ‘ahatas’ are only a few in number, but if there would be no ‘ahatas’, crime-prone areas would multiply in numbers and it would be virtually impossible to guard all those places, they warned.
 
 “If the state government is serious about curbing drinking habit among men, let there be prohibition, but steps like closure of ‘ahatas’ would worsen the situation further,” Gupta emphasised.
 
 Congress leader,  , who has carried out agitations in the past for shifting of liquor shops and ‘ahatas’ from several sensitive places in the city, said “The state government was never serious on curbing use of alcohol. We had identified certain places where liquor shops should not have been allowed but they existed there i.e. near school, colleges, hostels or temples. Not ‘ahatas’, but liquor shops should be closed if government wants to ensure women security and put a curb on crimes.”
 
