HYDERABAD: In what could cheer women aspirants, the   has directed Telangana State Northern Power Distribution Company Ltd (TSNPDCL) to accept applications from women to fill the backlog posts of lineman and stayed the declaration of results of the selection process until further orders.

 Justice MS  , who heard the pleas of women, said TSNPDCL cannot stop providing reservations to women for junior linemen posts as the electricity board’s regulation 22A(ii) provides for the same. He directed the discom authorities to issue application forms to women, receive the forms and allow their candidature in the selection process. The judge also asked the authorities not to declare the results of the selection till further orders are issued.
 
  
  
 
 The discom had embarked upon a massive exercise to fill 2,553 posts of junior lineman after issuing a notification on February 16.
 
 Counsel for the petitioners   contended that the authorities were rejecting applications submitted by women though the notification had clearly said all the online applications would be accepted.
 
 The software was programmed in such a manner that it was rejecting the forms filed by women and accepting only those filed by men.   told the court that regulation 22A makes it mandatory for the electricity authorities to provide 33 per cent reservation to women in all jobs. “The same rule is applicable for the current recruitment too,” he contended. The counsel urged the court to tell the authorities to accept applications from women — either online or manually — and later ensure 33 per cent quota. He also brought to the notice of the judge instances where discriminatory actions by the authorities in matters of recruitment in various departments, including electricity, had been struck down by courts.
 
 Humera Anjum and six women from   approached the High Court, questioning the discrimination against fairer sex. They also sought the authorities to treat them on a par with men and apply rules in tune with the electricity board employees’ service regulations.
 
 They contended that they were eligible for the posts by way of qualification like SSC and ITI with electrician grade, besides being locals in the erstwhile Nizamabad district.
 
 The written test for the posts is scheduled to be held on April 8. The last date for submitting applications is March 19.
 
 
