Nagpur: Rejecting Archeological Survey of India (ASI) contention about saving a protected monument, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday cleared the way for vehicle parking in the sprawling premises of Old HC building for a temporary period at least. The order would bring respite to hundreds of lawyers and litigants who try to find parking in the overcrowded Nagpur District and Sessions Court premises every day. A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Gavai and Murlidhar Giratkar directed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to level 1.5 acres out of over 5 acres area within three days. The District Bar Association (DBA) was told to invite and finalize tenders for ‘pay and park’ within next seven days, so visitors can begin parking four-wheelers in the area in 10 days. The stern directives came while hearing a PIL by petitioner Manoj Sable through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, praying for directives to the PWD to construct additional infrastructure like courts and bar rooms at ‘Suyog’ building premises for convenience of lawyers and litigants. This is the second time the HC has rejected ASI’s opposition to turn the huge area of over 120-year-old ‘Old HC building’ into parking for lawyers and litigants at Nyay Mandir premises. On March 26, PWD was directed to demolish the dilapidated canteen and servants quarters within 48 hours to pave way for parking. Accordingly, both structures were razed, despite ASI’s stiff opposition. The HC’s order seemed to have spurred ASI to hurriedly declare the Old HC building as ‘Centrally Protected Monument (CPM)’, over 20 years after the proposal was first mooted. The structure was built in 1891-93 to house the judicial commissioner’s office in Nagpur, which was then capital of Central Provinces (CP) and Berar. The ASI, through assistant solicitor general Ulhas Aurangabadkar, contended that entire area of Old HC Building spread over 18,200 square metres has been declared as monumental structure and can’t be demolished. It stated that after getting CPM status, even parking is prohibited on its entire premises. Citing his vast legal experience of over two decades, the petitioner stressed on redressing some issues on priority, including insufficient parking space and infrastructure across all courts in Maharashtra, cramped chambers for lawyers, stinking toilets, inadequate fire safety measures, and complete absence of security. There is shortage of courtrooms as well, which is severely hampering speedy dispensation of justice, across all courts in the region. TOI had been highlighting all these issues since long.