AHMEDABAD: With the cost of crude oil skyrocketing, petrol and diesel prices are now at a record high. Fuel is now burning a hole in the pockets of consumers’ and manufacturing industries are badly hit, as their input and transport costs have increased significantly.

 “Transporters and manufacturers of chemicals, ceramics and textiles have all indicated that their input costs have gone up,” said Shailesh Patwari, president of the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
 
 The raw material costs of several industries have risen due to the spike in crude oil prices. 
 
 “Raw material costs for textile processing houses have gone up due to the rising price of crude oil. With petrol and diesel prices going up, transportation costs will also rise, increasing our input costs by 12% to 15%,” said  , president of Ahmedabad Textile Processors Association.
 
 Ceramics manufacturers, for whom transport costs for raw materials and finished goods are an important component, are staring at climbing input costs. 
 
 “Transporters will raise their prices in a few days, as fuel prices have gone up. This is a direct addition to our input costs. There is also a 5% increase in our raw material costs, because of the crude oil price hike,” said  , president of Morbi Ceramics Association.
 
 The price of petrol in the city on Tuesday was Rs 76.05 a litre, with diesel costing Rs 73.07 per litre. 
 
 “Our business was already down by 25% as industries are struggling and our orders have hence gone down. The diesel price hike will adversely hurt our business as it accounts for 50% of our costs. Over the past six months, diesel prices have risen by a significant 18%, bloating our total costs. We cannot continue to do business this way,” said  , vice president of the   (AGTTA).
 
 Industry bodies called on the government to intervene. “It is high time the government reduces excise duty on petrol and diesel, or it will hurt industry and business significantly,” said  , president of the Gujarat State Council of FICCI.
 
 
