SRINAGAR: More than two weeks after Prime Minister Narendra Modi slammed the rape and murder of the eight-year-old girl in Kathua resulting in the axing of two BJP ministers in the Jammu and Kashmir government, the newly inducted deputy CM of the party,  , courted controversy on Monday by calling the crime "chhoti si baat" (minor issue).

 
 Gupta's comments on the Kathua case came even as the induction of another BJP MLA, Rajiv Jasrotia, in the cabinet received widespread criticism because of his participation in a   rally in support of the Kathua case accused. BJP MLAs Lal Singh and Chander Prakash Ganga had lost their job as ministers because of their participation in this very rally in Kathua on April 4.
 
 Soon after six MLAs of BJP and two of PDP were inducted in the   government as part of the reshuffle on Monday, Gupta told TV channels, "Kathua maamla ek choti si baat hai, usko itni tool deni nahi chahiye (The Kathua incident is a minor issue, it shouldn't have been given so much hype)." He added that "we have to think how such incidents should never happen again and the child gets justice."
 
 The reshuffle was necessitated by the ouster of Lal Singh and Ganga. Along with Samba MLA Kuldeep Raj, Jasrotia, who represents Kathua seat in the assembly, was instrumental in getting Lal Singh and Ganga to the rally. The crime branch had approached Jasrotia during investigation in the Kathua case and had spoken to him. 
 
 Reacting to Jasrotia's induction, former chief minister Omar Abdullah said Mehbooba seemed confused about her stand on the Kathua case. Taking to Twitter, Omar pointed out that two BJP ministers were "removed in J&K for attending a pro-rapist rally & an MLA who is reported to have attended the same rally is promoted as a minister".
 
  
  
 
 Independent MLA Engineer Rashid said Jasrotia's induction has exposed the coalition government's claims of taking a high moral ground on the Kathua case.
 
 Governor N N Vohra administered the oath of office to the eight ministers at the convention hall in Jammu in the presence of senior BJP leaders, including national general secretary Ram Madhav.
 
 BJP inducted five new faces and dropped three ministers, Nirmal Singh, Bali Bhagat and Priya Sethi. While Bhagat was dropped because of allegations of corruption against him, Sethi was considered a non-performer, sources said. Nirmal Singh, who stepped down as deputy CM on Sunday, is likely to be named as speaker in place of Gupta.
 
 Sources said the final list was prepared after detailed consultation with BJP national president Amit Shah and Ram Madhav.
 
 Madhav said Monday's reshuffle "had nothing to do with the Kathua rape and murder case".
 
