KOLKATA: With the height barrier installed ahead of   getting hit thrice in 24 hours about a week ago, the state is planning a number of measures to keep vehicles from ramming into the structures. From reflectors on the barriers to speed bumps on VIP Road, the state has a slew of steps lined up.

 The structure had been installed at the   end on March 8 and around 5.30pm the next day, a bus hit it. The second crash, again involving a bus, happened around midnight. In the early hours of March 10, a truck hit the structure, uprooting it from its concrete base.
  
  
 “The series of crashes has put us in a spot. We feel vehicles have been so used to taking the flyover that they always move at ahigh speed, not realizing that a barrier has been put up, and crash into it. To prevent such crashes we are charting out a series of precautionary measures,” said a PWD engineer.
 
 The plans include installing reflectors and flashers on the height barriers, setting up speed bumps, erecting signage on a 70m stretch leading to the flyover and putting up guardrails on the middle of the road.
 
 The PWD engineer said the pedestals on which the 12ft-high barrier stands are made of highly durable concrete.
 
 “Breaking the barrier isn’t easy. But the heavy vehicles are driven so recklessly at night that the entire structure was uprooted,” he said.
 
 Cops admitted that vehicles crashing into the height barrier was a big problem. “After the barrier came off, we tried to put up guard rails on the road leading to the flyover. But large vehicles still crashed into them,” said a police constable posted near the flyover. The cops then made the request of reinstalling speed bumps with reflectors along a 70m stretch leading to the flyover from both ends.
 
 Two years ago, several bumps were removed from VIP Road to enable smooth vehicular movement. “Bumps on speed corridors like VIP Road go against the very concept of such thoroughfares. But now we have no other option but to reinstall them,” the PWD engineer added.
 
 “It costs about Rs 1lakh to repair a barrier. However, we will get it repaired and take up all the precautionary measures,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the absence of barriers has made it easy for heavy vehicles like trucks, buses and trailers, which are now plying on the flyover even during the day.
 
 
