NEW DELHI: The Delhi government would present its   on March 22. The budget session of the assembly begins on Friday. 

 Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia would present the economic survey and the outcome budget before the budget. It would be the first assembly session after the disqualification of AAP’s 20 MLAs. Excluding minister Kailash Gahlot, they can’t attend the proceedings. 
 
  
 A stormy session is expected with AAP likely to bring in a resolution against the ongoing sealing drive. The party has maintained that sealing could be stopped only if the central government brought an ordinance or introduced a Bill in Parliament. Through a resolution, AAP believes it could make a strong statement and also emphasise the role of the Centre in stopping the drive. MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj said he would move a resolution on Friday. “Through it, I will expose the failure of the central government on sealing. Pressure will be put on the central government to either bring an ordinance or a Bill,” Bharadwaj said.
 
 He added, “The resolution will also be against the attack on traders during a sealing drive by Delhi Police.” 
 
 Anticipating this, the opposition is all geared up to counter the Kejriwal government with a work adjournment motion on various issues, including the government’s tussle with the bureaucracy and “double standards” on sealing. “The government has done nothing that is within its power to stop sealing. It has not even notified the 351 roads to protect the traders,” BJP MLA Vijender Gupta said. His party has accused AAP of politicising the issue. 
 
 The resolution would be sent to the Centre after it is passed by the assembly. In the budget session, the chief secretary has to submit the action taken report in the assembly on the alleged bank fraud and another matter. 
 
 The session would start with an address by LG Anil Baijal on the achievements and plans of the AAP government. After a brief break, the assembly would meet again in the afternoon during which important matters would be raised, including   and the alleged attack on chief secretary Anshu Prakash. 
 
 A significant focus of the budget is likely to be on environment as the government has called it a “green budget”. Education and health sectors are also likely to be among the key focus areas.
 
 A day before the budget session, Gupta alleged that the government has “misused” the labour welfare fund and said he would include it in his questions. Gupta said he would raise 160 questions in the budget session. 
 
 Delhi BJP claimed that the “Kejriwal government has failed to utilise significant portions of the allotted budget in the last three years” and must tell the people why it failed. 
 
 The budget session would continue till March 28.
 
 
