Mumbai:  , the eldest son of pharma and healthcare group Wockhardt’s promoter, Habil Khorakiwala, is working on a startup in the food and retail space that involves opening of a chain of cafes across the country. The venture, Peace Mission, promoted by Huzaifa in his personal capacity, has opened its first outlet at   Hospital in south Mumbai. 

 The cafes will also retail specially-themed gifts like apparel & accessories — perfumes, watches, caps, key chains — and flavoured candies based on peace, friendship and harmony. The venture has already broken even with sales of Rs 1.4 crore in its first year of operations.
 
 An MBA graduate from   and largely associated with social causes, Huzaifa had founded an online movement: ‘World Peacekeepers Movement’. He believes one can spread ‘peace values’ through a coffee shop. As an executive director at Wockhardt, Huzaifa was involved in its day-to-day affairs for over a decade till 2008. He now runs the non-profit Wockhardt Foundation. 
 
 Huzaifa is exploring a second location for his cafe in Mumbai. He plans a franchise model for cafes across cities including Jaipur, Kolkata, Ahmedabad and Mangaluru. “We want to go big...open at least 100 ‘Peace Cafes’ in three to five years,” he told TOI. “Life is about spreading love... When you can spread it over a larger number of people rather than only your personal interactions, it has a multiplier effect on society. Your personal goal gets translates into a societal effect. A coffee shop is a lovely way in which this can be done,” he added.
 
 A few years back, Dabur scion Amit Burman ventured into the food space through  , while the   promoted   to launch the PizzaExpress chain in the country through a tie-up. The overall food business in the country is booming spurred by a young population with rising disposable income and increasing urbanisation. The food services market, both organised and unorganised, is estimated at Rs 3 lakh crore and is projected to grow to Rs 5 lakh crore in the next five years.
 
 Chains and licensed stand-alone players across quick service, full service, casual and fine-dining restaurants, hotels, bars, cafes account for the organised sector, while the unorganised sector has dhabas, street stalls, vendors and food carts. 
 
 
