Mohali: The city administration has claimed that the crackdown on illicit miners has been successful and they have curbed the mining in the district as the crushers that were operating illegally have been shut.

 Around 60 FIRs were registered against illegal miners in the district last year while only one FIR has been reported in the current year said Charandev Singh Mann, additional deputy commissioner (ADC). The solitary complaint has been registered at Derabassi.
 
 Mohali deputy commissioner, Gurpreet Kaur Sapara said, “We have been successful in closing the lid over all illegal crushers operating in the district. Now, the crushers which have obtained requisite permission are operating after getting declaration of procuring raw material.”
 
 “All efforts are being made to keep a check on illegal quarrying in Majri and Khizrabad areas in Kharar, Zirakpur and Derabassi which circumscribe around 130 crushers are operating out of which 80% have been regularized with the administration and mining department,” said Mann.
 
 “There are around 29 crushers in Majri block out of which 11 have already obtained work license from mining department and six others have applied for it. They have filed an undertaking in writing claiming that they will procure raw material only from licensed suppliers avoiding any illegal means. We had booked persons in 60 cases for   and just one this year following complaint. We have taken stern measures to curb any illegal mining activity in the district and acted swiftly whenever any complaint has been recieved.” However, the residents of mining-prone areas are still miffed as the mining activities have gone unchecked. Sher Mohammad, former sarpanch of Khizrabad area, said that for long he has been voicing the issue of illegal mining issue even after receiving several threats many a times.
 
 “Illegal mining is ruining the forest cover and the lands of our village. Deforestation has been carried out at an alarming rate and we have been raising the issue with administration but no action has been taken till date. More than 40 trucks involved in the illegal business of mining are plying every night from Khizrabad area and there is no one to keep a tab.”
 
 Mohali Deputy Commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra directed the district, block development, panchayat, public health, water supply, sanitation and mining department officers to include the Panchayati lands which have been observing illegal mining.
 
 “If the officers deputed to check illegal mining do not submit two reports in a week, stern action will be taken against them. Officials have been issued dates to submit their reports after conducting the surprise checkings in their respective areas,” she stated.
 
 Sapra further said that if any complaint regarding illegal mining on panchayati land other than mentioned in the list is received after February 28 then the concerned district, block development and panchayat officials will be held accountable.
 
 “These officials will obtain proper approval for legal mining in the village, after coordinating with deputy commissioner and SDMs of the district,” she asserted.
 
 
