LUCKNOW: With the Hindutva rhetoric becoming louder and louder in the BJP camp and the coming together   and  , the dual by elections in the state are a throwback to the Mandal versus kamandal politics of the 90s.

 The BJP, which was considering the victory a cakewalk, has changed its strategy with the sudden pre-poll realignment and a surge in support of smaller political outfits in favour of SP.
 
 Chief minister Yogi Adityanath, whose personal and political prestige is at stake in Gorakhpur and who is seen as a Hindutva face, has further amplified Hindutva issues over the past two days while the president of Samajwadi Party has drawn support of nearly a dozen political outfits, mostly dominated by OBCs and dalits.
 
 Speaking in the assembly on Tuesday, Adityanath played up the Hindutva card once again by saying he was a Hindu and would not celebrate the Muslim festival of Eid.
 
 Simultaneously, voices in favour of the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya have also started getting louder on the pretext of out-of-court settlement between the two communities. .
 
 With the sudden change in ground situation, BJP’s strategy is to woo back nonupper castes in the name of larger Hindutva cause and the construction of Ram temple. The chief minister is leading from the front to exploit the Hindutva card. But an unexpected understanding between arch-enemies SP and BSP has left the saffron camp suprised.
 
 Backed by the BSP, the SP chief has already been supported by Nishad Party, Peace Party, Kurmi Mahasabha, Rashtriya Lok Dal, CPM, and other smaller outfits dominated by the Binds, Sainthwars and Gonds, who are in sizeable numbers in the five assembly constituencies of Gorakhpur and Phulpur. The breakaway faction of Apna Dal is also actively considering supporting the SP.
 
 For the BJP, it is a matter of concern as to why OBCs are shifting to its political rival. Also sulking is BJP ally Om  , heading a fledgling SBSP. He has publicly expressed his anger and threatened to break the alliance.
 
 The faction of Apna Dal which is a partner in the BJP government is also not satisfied. Both the parties had been dumped by the BJP in the urban local bodies elections.
 
 A weak   in Gorakhpur is also giving more confidence to the SP-BSP alliance. The Congress was expected to draw support of Muslims and had fielded a Muslim candidate in Gorakhpur, but after the SP-BSP alliance, its confidence is shaking, reducing the contest between Mandal and kamandal in the two byelections.
 
