GURUGRAM: A 6-year-old boy was allegedly made to suffer severe burns and was forced into   by his own father. While his   has been arrested, the boy has been sent to a child care institute after being hospitalised for over a week. 

 
 
 The child welfare committee (CWC) is now probing the father’s claims that the burns were caused after the boy came in contact with a heated silencer during a bike ride, and got into begging for the duration of his school’s summer break. They hail from Bundi in  . The boy’s mother is a labourer.
 
 On May 25, the boy was discovered begging near Airtel building in Udyog Vihar and was rescued. He had severe burns all over his body, including one on his right arm. Writhing in pain, he was sitting on the lap of a crippled man, who turned out to be his father.
 
 Rescue teams rushed the child to General Hospital in Civil Lines, where he was admitted till Friday for treatment. His father was identified as Kamlesh (40), who posed as a   to earn sympathy while begging. 
 
 A FIR was filed at Udyog Vihar police station against Kamlesh, under Section 76 of the Juvenile Justice Act. The father was sent to judicial custody. 
 
 During investigation, the father said the boy had suffered burns after accidentally touching the heated silencer of a motorbike a day ago. Also, he said begging was a temporary option for his son, a student of Class 1 in a school in Rajasthan. However, district child protection officer Nisha Saini said the burns were spread all over the body, along with other wounds, which were unlikely to have been caused from touching a bike silencer, she added.
 
 As far as the child’s school education is considered, the CWC wrote to the school named to submit a compliance report in the matter.
 
 “We have sought a report from the school where the father claimed the boy studies. If it turns out to be true, we will ask the Rajasthan CWC to monitor the well-being of the child in future,” said Shakuntala Dhull, chairperson, Gurugram CWC.
 
 However, activists against child abuse said gangs use school education as an escape from legal clutches.
 
 “When a person claims the child is missing out on school education, it is natural to send the rescued child back for the sake of his education and bring normalcy in his life. Those involved in activities against children know this, and it has become the most commonly used excuse these days,” said Suraj Prajapati, para-legal volunteer, district legal services authority.
 
 
