PUNE: The All India Petrol Dealers’ Association has decided to set up a help desk to receive complaints against suspicious activities at petrol pumps following the sealing of three petrol pumps in the district by oil companies last week for fraudulently selling petrol by installing chips in the dispensing units.

 The association’s spokesperson Ali   said in case customers feel suspicious about being cheated at any petrol pump, they can resort to a standard five-point check. “If they still feel unsatisfied, they can make a written complaint to the help desk. The complaints could be about misbehaviour by petrol pump employees, cheating, short-charging or anything else. We will take up the issue with the oil company concerned as well as our dealer members,” he added.
 
 Detailing the five-point check, he said, “First, consumers can demand for a five-litre measure check in case they feel cheated. Each pump has a measure and any discrepancies in measures can be caught immediately. If they are still not satisfied, a density check can be undertaken referring to a density chart available at each pump. One is required to check the temperature of the fuel using a density hydrometer. If the density matches the density mentioned on the chart, the fuel is pure. If it exceeds the said density, the petrol may be adulterated.”
 
 Daruwalla said the next step could be taking a filter paper test. “A litmus paper can be used for this test. One needs to dip a white litmus paper into the fuel. If the paper remains white, it is pure. If it changes colour, it means that the petrol is adulterated. The next is kilometre test wherein the tank is refilled in the presence of an oil company sales representative. They then take a drive for a kilometre to understand the mileage and decide whether the refilling was proper or not,” he explained.
 
 He said the last step of the five-point check is to register a complaint with the regional sales officer of the oil company concerned. “In case customers feel that the issues are not resolved, they can register a complaint with the   at   at Poolgate. We will raise the issue with the authorities and the dealer for redressal,” he added.
 
 
