PATNA: The Bihar Cricket Association (BCA) on Sunday claimed to be the only body recognized by the committee of administrators (CoA) of the Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) to run cricket in the state.

 BCA secretary Ravi Shankar Prasad Singh furnished a copy of an email from BCCI’s CoA dated May 5 in this regard. The email states that BCCI is to continue ‘dealing’ with BCA in respect to cricketing activities in Bihar.
 
 Addressing a press conference to counter the Cricket Association of Bihar (CAB) claim a few days back that there is no authorized body of the BCCI in Bihar, Singh said, “The said association (CAB) that had raised issues with our registration and authorization by BCCI, had approached the CoA. The CoA had then asked us to furnish explanation along with supporting document with regard to the claims made by the association (CAB) within 14 days. The BCA did furnish all the details on April 23 this year. The email from CoA on May 5 is in reply to our explanation and clearly states that ‘it is of the view that BCCI should presently continue dealing with the BCA for cricketing activities in the state of Bihar’.”
 
 Singh recounted how CAB had tried to malign BCA by filing writ petitions in the high court. However, the writ petitions were dismissed.
 
 The Supreme Court had directed the BCCI to include ‘the state of Bihar’ in Ranji Trophy. Bihar would be included in national level BCCI matches after a period of 18 years.
 
 Talking about the criteria for selection of players for different tournaments, Singh said those players were being enrolled who the association thinks could perform well in the long run. “The players will be put through tough fitness tests among other criteria. Just the performance on two-three occasions cannot be the standard yardstick for selection of a player as many of them sometimes perform poorly when out of form, but are good players in the long run,” he said.
 
 BCA would organize Randhir Verma Under-19 cricket championship at five zonal centres in the state soon, he said.
 
 
