TUMAKURU: On April 20, the 110-yearold Shivakumara Swamy, the senior seer of Siddaganga Mutt in Tumakuru, received a special guest. The otherwise quiet premises was abuzz with people shouting slogans and photographers clicking pictures. Nikhil Kumaraswamy, son of JD(S) state president HD Kumaraswamy, was stopping by to seek the seer’s blessings before starting his campaign for JD(S) candidate Sudhakara Lal in Koratagere.
 
  This election season, every politician irrespective of party affiliation, be it   or  , has made a stop at Siddaganga Mutt, one of the most powerful Lingayat mutts in South Karnataka. Despite the mutt itself distancing itself from politics, the stream of politicians wanting to come here is never ending.
  
  At the mutt, the seers claim that they do not attach any special significance to political leaders visiting mutts. “This place is open for all and we bless everyone who comes seeking blessings. All we do is wish them the best,” said junior seer Siddalinga Swami, who is also president of the mutt.
  
  In fact, ever since the election campaigning began, the mutt has become a stopover for party workers travelling from North Karnataka to Bengaluru. “We get calls from political parties requesting food for workers travelling from Bidar and Kalaburagi to Bengaluru. They visit us in hundreds and we provide them food — dasoha — as we do to all visitors,” Siddalinga Swami said.
  
  The state government’s recent decision to accord a minority religion status to the Lingayat community has put this and other Lingayat mutts in the centre of political discourse. The mutt itself has maintained a neutral stand in public. It is learnt that the mutt will voice its opinion on the issue after elections are over as it could influence voters. The junior seer, while refusing to comment on the issue, only said, “Religious institutions should not tell people which party to support but only urge them to vote,” he said.
  
  A political science professor from Tumkur University said that Siddaganga Mutt is an institution that politicians cannot ignore. “Since the mutt has followers and donors not just from one community, the mutt’s reach is huge. Hence, politicians visit the institution not out of devotion but out of fear. The fear of political repercussions,” the professor said requesting anonymity.
  
  Even as politicians are making a beeline to pay their respects, the mutt has recently requested the election authorities to shift a polling booth located near its premises to a different location. “We do not want to mix politics with religion,” said an office-bearer.
  
