KOCHI: A combined inspection of the stretch of   near the traffic signal at civil station, Kakkanad, by the   (MVD) and police has found that the road is in extremely dangerous condition with the carriage way (tarred portion) and shoulder line (sidewalk) having major height difference.

 The inspection began from the spot where Ambili, a   officer, lost her life after getting run-over by a tanker truck. The woman, an assistant sub-inspector, was trying to get her two-wheeler back on to the carriage way from the sidewalk when it overturned. Ambili was run over by a truck.
 
 
 The departments will now approach the district collector with a comprehensive report to avoid such accidents in the future.
 
 According to  , traffic CI, Edappally, the priority would be to level the road and the sidewalk.
 
 “The accident happened between the traffic signal and Aryaas hotel. However, our inspection has found similar issues in several parts of the stretch. Soil from the sidewalk has eroded causing the height difference. The sidewalk should be filled with concrete or gravel as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 The report also demanded conversion of the road into a four-lane road in the wake of increasing traffic. Several important establishments like Infopark, SEZ, collectorate and   are on this route and there are several residential projects coming up here.
 
 The inspection team conducted checking in places where frequent accidents are reported. Officers took note of the parking of the vehicles along the road and shops constructed close to the road.
 
 Officials said absence of proper bus bays are also constitutes to accidents on the stretch. Buses stopping along the road pick up passengers leading to traffic jams. Accidents also happen when cars and bikes attempt to overtake the buses as they halt.
 
 The team found no traffic signs to alert drivers at any part of seaport-airport road stretch.
 
 According to the inspection team, a four-lane road is needed to contain the traffic at peak hours. There is an immediate need to ban parking of vehicles at both sides of the road. Similarly, illegal shops operating close to the road must be immediately removed.
 
 Deepu N K, a motor vehicle inspector, said that the accident on Wednesday should be an eye opener. “Many accidents have been happening on the stretch, however, they were rarely fatal. There is an urgent need for repair work considering the huge traffic in the stretch,” said Deepu.
 
