Mangaluru: The menace of bull trawling as well as fishing using lights is likely to come to an end from the fishing season that starts in August.

 Understanding the perils of mass fishing techniques, that has been the cause for depleting fish stocks along the coast, the fishermen community, both in Udupi and  , has come together to put an end to bull trawling and fishing using lights from August.
 
 The Caveat: If bull trawling is resorted to by fishermen, those indulging in fishing using lights will also take it up, said sources. The issue was discussed at a recent meeting held by fisheries minister Pramod Madhwaraj in Udupi.
 
 Though the Union government has banned the use of LED lights while fishing in all coastal areas in the country, it has been done rampantly in coastal Karnataka, threatening the marine ecology and killing juvenile fish, thereby jeopardizing the livelihood of traditional fishermen. Concerned with the ban not being implemented in Karnataka’s coastal waters, the   had written to the ministry of agriculture and farmers welfare, to instruct the district administrations of Uttara Kannada, Udupi and Dakshina Kannada to strictly enforce the ban on LED fishing and bull trawling.
 
 
  
  
 
 Purse Siener Fishermen’s Association president   says with only 42% Mogaveeras in the fishing industry, it is largely dominated by ‘other commercial interests,’ who want to make a quick buck on their investments. “We understand the deleterious effects of bull trawling and fishing using LED lights. But it works on a quid pro quo basis. Bull trawling which happens in September and October is more dangerous, which leads to a depletion in the number of fish, which forced local fishermen, especially Purse Siener boats, to engage in fishing using lights,’’ he said.
 
 Karkera says a fishling requires about six months to grow fully, but bull trawling completely eliminates juveniles, and thus affects the species itself. “This is why we want a ban on both these types of fishing practices which cause mass destruction,’’ he said.
 
 The situation is such that premium fish is arriving in Mangaluru at exorbitant rates. White pomfret which was common in city fish markets, now comes from Kerala and commands a premium. As on Wednesday, no local catch of white pomfret arrived in the market, but white pomfret have been supplied from Kerala, which is selling at Rs 1,100 per kilo. The usual rate of white pomfret hovers around the Rs 900 per kilo during this period.
 
 
