AHMEDABAD: In historical times, the roads connecting the coastal towns of   to the cities of the hinterland were well-travelled paths. A critical necessity for merchants and other travellers would have been places to rest and water their animals en route. It is only logical that these highway stopovers would have been a good place to build stepwells, or vavs as we call them.

  Vanthali, on the road that connects   to Rajkot, is a likely place to seek such a stopover. The road leading to the town seems ideal for long distance travellers, with several large trees on either side coming together to form an overhead canopy. In this tranquil setting, near the village of  , one comes across what looks like a small garden on one side with a pavilion in the middle. Nothing from outside indicates the presence of an ancient structure within. Usually, a gardener or two can be seen at work.
 
 It is on rounding the pavilion that the true picture of the place emerges. The pavilion stands at the top of a large stepwell. The well, named Ra Khengar vav, is built in a north-south direction, with the well-shaft in the south and a flight of steps to enter it in the north. Walking inside, a visitor sees ornate stone carving on niches on the wall and on pillars at every level. The niches are empty, the idols that would have been inside long gone. One hopes they are in a museum somewhere. Even the pavilion tower within has stone embellishment. The ornamentation in the lower levels of the vav is in complete contrast to the plain nature of the walls at ground level, the result of the higher levels having been plastered over at some later time. The pavilion on top of the stepwell does not share the antiquity of the vav itself and may date back to the late 19th century.
 
  One of the most interesting features of the Vanthali stepwell is that there is still water within. Imagine the skill and foresight of the planners who created it centuries ago by identifying the underground aquifer. The Ra Khengar vav, is named after a   ruler of Junagadh. According to a historian  , a Chudasama minister called   had got this vav constructed for the benefit of travellers. Its design is like structures built in the first half of the 13th century CE, with historians specifying the 1230-1240 period for its construction. Even today, some travellers take a break from the heat of the road in the cool environs of the stepwell and its garden. Tejahpala’s work continues to benefit people long after he is history.
 
 
