KOCHI: Ending the monopoly of auto and taxi unions at the Ernakulam   station, the railways on Wednesday introduced the Cart License Permit ( ) system at the station.

 
 With this, any vehicle with CLP can operate from its prepaid counter. “Now, only vehicles that have railways permit will be allowed to take railway passengers from the station compound. We can also act against auto drivers who create problems for the passengers at the station,” said R  , station director, Ernakulam.
 
 The decision was taken after few autorickshaw union members created a ruckus near the station premise and forced passengers out of rickshaws not affiliated to the unions. By evening, Central station police arrested nearly 10 auto drivers and removed them from the station premises.
 
 TheCLPsystem whichwas implemented at   railway station a month back, evoked a positive responsefrom the public, according to the railwayofficials.As per RailwayBoard policy, an owner of auto or taxi who wish to run services from the pre-paid counter at railway station are required to pay Cart License Fee as prescribed by the Railways from timetotime.They also need to submit documents such asbiodata of thedriver, vehicle details and police clearance certificate regarding any antecedentsof the vehiclefor receiving the parking permit.
 
 Despite two meetings with them in the presence of officials from RTO and traffic police on April 27 and May 3, the unions refused to comply with thesystem.
 
 “The unions are totally opposedtothedecision of the railwaystoimplementCLP andinformedusthatthey will notcooperate,” the railway official said.
 
 The existing rate of license feefor a three-wheelers and autorickshaws is Rs 1,475 including GSTfor six months.
 
 Union members are currently on a dharna in front of the   railway station. "We cannot afford the fee levied by the railways as we are already burdened by the increasing prices of petrol and diesel," said   S, secretary, AITUC autounion.
 
 However, some of the auto drivers and vehicle owners refused to take Cart License Permit,whodemandedthe rightto run services from the prepaid counter without the permit, and later obstructed other permit holders from conducting theservice.
 
 In total, railways have given 103 permits at South station and 220 autos at North station sofar.
 
