Chennai: The Japanese arrived with their santokus, the Americans upped the steaks, the Koreans tried to tap in with bibimbap, pesto! said the Italians, and yet the homegrown wholesome   of   continues to steam ahead. Unfettered, undeterred, a batter unbettered.

 Although supposedly of Kannada origin, the idli has in time become synonymous with the traditional breakfast and tiffin in Tamil Nadu. And the last decade has seen the idli in the news more than ever in the city. In June of 2008, the humble dish came into the spotlight when hotel owners in the state announced they were going to lower the price of food items — especially the most popular breakfast item — by 10% to 15% as a birthday gift to chief minister M Karunanidhi, who was turning 85.
 
 The celebrations brought with it angst as well, with restaurant owners bemoaning the spiraling costs of raw ingredients, several of them reducing manpower and quantities served to keep afloat. The cost of making a plate of idlis, said some owners at the time, had risen from `5 to `7.
 
 Around this time, the city also began opening up to international  . Headlines such as ‘Loving Tokyo’ and from ‘Seoul to Saidapet’, were common. Whether it was Thai, Mediterranean, Mexican, Italian or American, Chennai was home to it all. The city went beyond the Far East exploring cuisines from far eastern Europe as well. Polish, Russian, and now Armenian (in a few months) are all available a la carte. But the idli and dosa, recipes unchanged, continued to be all-time favourites.
 
 K Murali Rao, managing director of New Woodlands Hotel, says the idli-chutney at his restaurant is the only thing that has remained constant. "The restaurant shifted premises, but our plate of idlis has not changed in terms of recipe since 1933. Why change something that’s has been our best-seller for decades," he asks.
 
 In 2013, the idli picked up steam like never before, when chief minister J Jayalalithaa launched Amma Unavagam, where municipal corporations of the state-run canteens serving subsidised food at low prices. The chain of Amma canteens that spread across the state, sold everything from rice dishes to chapatis. But it was the steamed rice cakes — priced at `1 each — that sold like hot cakes. It’s been five years since the launch, and the idlis continue to be priced at `1, while sales are skyrocketing. In the year of launch, according to data from the Chennai corporation, around 2.5 lakh idlis were sold per day, hitting a high of 7.8 crore idlis in 2013. The average number of idlis sold per day has now risen to 2.7 lakh, while the total number of idlis sold since the launch being 50.7 crore.
 
 And then, in 2014, the idli got an edge. Literally. High flying corporate executive R U Srinivas decided to go FMCG with the idli, changing its shape from sphere to rectangle, which he felt would elevate it into a whole new world. His Mylapore-based Idli Factory markets just one thing — the idli-molaga podi combo — and according to Srinivas, the business has grown 25 times in four years, with him selling 1.2 lakh, of his no preservatives packaged idlis, a month off the shelf. The bar-shaped idli, he says, was more about convenience in terms of eating than about novelty, although it has now become their USP. "Urban India is rediscovering the benefits and the tastes of traditional Indian food. And our goal is to make the idli sexy again," he says. No batter way to put it.
 
 
