CHENNAI: With the   failing to keep the   deadline on notifying the   scheme, the Tamil Nadu government plans to file a contempt plea next week, setting the stage for starting a fresh round of legal battle. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to return to India on Saturday, after his three-nation tour in East Asia.

 The Supreme Court had ordered the Centre to implement the Cauvery scheme before the onset of southwest monsoon. Union   resources secretary U P Singh told TOI it would be notified shortly. The meteorology department announced that the monsoon set in over Kerala on Tuesday, three days ahead of its schedule, but there is no sign of the Centre gazetting the scheme. “With the PM expected to return this weekend, the TN government plans to file a contempt plea next week if the Centre continues to fail the state,” said a senior government official, seeking anonymity. It was due to the intervention of the court that the Congress-led UPA regime notified the Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal’s final order in February 2013, six years after the award was given. 
 
 The Cauvery scheme approved by the Supreme Court mandates that the Cauvery Management Authority and   distribute water among the riparian states. “It will be notified shortly. I can’t give any particular date…,” Union water resources secretary U P Singh told TOI recently. The ministry is said to have sent a note to the Union cabinet for approval. The TN government had pressed for early notification of the scheme so that the authority is set up ahead of June 1, the beginning of water year, which will set the ball rolling for monthly deliveries from Karnataka’s reservoirs. The opening of Mettur dam on June 12, the customary date for release, has been delayed yet again, for the seventh consecutive year. 
 
 The notification ensures that states and centre nominate technical experts and representatives to authority and committee. The nine-member authority, headquartered in New Delhi, will be led by a senior and eminent engineer with wide experience in water resource management or an All India Service Officer with experience in handling inter-state water sharing issues. PMK leader S Ramadoss accused chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami of remaining silent on the delay. “People will not forgive the state that supports the Centre’s betrayal… If the authority is not set up, there is a possibility of Karnataka using the available storage in its reservoirs,” the PMK leader said.
 
 EOM
 
 
