 (JAIPUR): Nobel laureate   has called upon the Union and the state governments to transform villages into “Bal Mitra Gram” (child-friendly villages) by eliminating child labour, ensuring children get admission in schools and creating tasks for their participation in local governance.

 He believed that positioning of children in the society will end crimes against them. Satyarthi had pitched the idea to President   recently.
 
 “My idea is that the government should include the provision of child-friendly villages in the Adarsh Gran Yojna in which MP has to adopt a village. I will take up the matter with the union government and state government,” said Satyarthi, who attended the Maha Bal Panchayat election of children at Bal Ashram in Viratnagar.
 
 He also advocated that the need for having National Children Tribunal on the lines of  , which ensures strict punishment for child offenders. “A report suggests that the pendency of cases related to children is so high that in some states it will take 30-40 years to complete the cases. By that time the victim becomes a mother or a grandmother. Do you expect them to run around courts? The answer is no and this is a bigger injustice to them,” said Satyarthi who advocated special courts and a special allocation of budget to fight the moral epidemic spreading in our country. 
 
 While he refused to comment on the provision of death penalty in POCSO ACT, but asked political parties to rise above their political differences to come up with a strict amendment in the act. “The parliament should deliberate, debate, decide and pass the amendment in the next parliament session,” said Satyarthi.
 
 He asked for a collaboration, local, regional, national and global level, to fight the menace of the porn industry which is causing adverse impact on societies. He reveled that porn Industry in India has stooped to the lowest level. “I have learned from people that in some parts of the country, rape videos are sold which is shocking. The rape videos are priced at Rs 500 to Rs 5,000. If it’s a gang-rape where a woman struggling, crying or shown in inebriated condition sells at higher prices,” said Satyarthi with disappointment.
 
 
