CHENNAI: A 28-year-old realtor from  , desperately unhappy about being obese and willing to try anything to lose a few kilos, died on Thursday afternoon after ingesting a medicinal formulation from a mobile vendor.

  , who weighed more than 100kg, on Wednesday afternoon purchased a ‘lehiyam’ from a quack who was going around in a van and selling wonder cures for all kinds of ailments, an investigating officer said.
 
 “Pradeep was unmarried and upset about being obese,” the officer said. “When the van approached his house on   in Ayapakkam, he approached the quack.”
 
 “After dinner on Wednesday night, Pradeep took the medicine and went to bed,” the officer said. “He woke up early in the morning with stomach pain. His family took him to a hospital but he died around 15 hours after taking the medication.”
 
 
 Police launch hunt for quack
 
 The Thirumullaivoyal police filed a case and have launched a search for the quack.
 
 Pradeep’s neighbours have provided investigators with descriptions of the man and the van, the officer said. The realtor was constantly fretting about his weight and had tried various ways to lose weight, investigators quoted family members as saying.
 
 “He even went to a gym and tried weight training but nothing seemed to help,” the officer said. Neighbours told investigators that the man was hawking various kinds of medicines from his van. The neighbours said they saw Pradeep talking to the man before he took home one of the jellylike medicines that the man was selling. “When Pradeep returned home with the medicine, he appeared to be optimistic, telling his family that the man in the van had promised him that he would lose extra weight within a week,” the officer said.
 
 The family was alarmed when, after taking the medicine the previous night, Pradeep awoke at 5am on Thursday and complained of severe abdominal pain. Family members took him to a private hospital nearby where his condition deteroriated. Doctors referred him to  , but he failed to respond to treatment and died. Pradeep’s brother   lodged a complaint with the Thirumullaivoyal police, who registered a suspicious death and sent the body for postmortem.
 
 “We sent the samples to a forensics laboratory for viscera tests immediately after the postmortem,” the officer said. “We will be able to confirm the cause of death after we receive the lab report.”
 
 A senior gasteroentrologist at   Government General Hospital said certain types of ‘lehiyam’ can be toxic if not properly prepared. “Sometimes, the medicine maker may add metals such as lead to enhance the potency,” he said. “This can cause poisoning, diarrhoea and vomitting. If untreated, it can be fatal.”
 
