CHANDIGARH : Former   bureaucrat S S Dhillon, who has been chargesheeted by the CBI in  , failed to find any favour from the   and Haryana high court in the case as the court has asked him to raise his grievances at the time of the trial. 

 Dhillon, who is one of 34 accused in the scam, including former Haryana chief minister  , had approached the HC to quash the FIR, the CBI chargesheet and his summoning by a special CBI court in Panchkula. Dhillon along with all accused has been summoned by the special CBI court to appear on April 19.
 
 In his plea before the HC, Dhillon had stated that launching of attack by the prosecution against him has resulted in a blatant infringement of his fundamental rights, especially those guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. His counsel had argued that even the sanction to prosecute him has not been processed and that is why it would be wrong to prosecute him in this case.
 
 Besides seeking directions to summon the entire record from Haryana related to his prosecution sanction, Dhillon had also pleaded to quash the FIR, chargesheet submitted by CBI in the case before a special CBI court in Panchkula and the March 16 orders through which the CBI court had summoned him to face the prosecution.
 
 After hearing the petition on Friday, Justice   asked him to raise all these issues before the trial court. Dhillon had retired from the service in December 2017.
 
 The CBI had chargesheeted him and 33 others under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) read with section 420 (cheating) of the IPC and various sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act for obtaining valuable thing or pecuniary advantage by corrupt or illegal means.
 
 The main allegations in the entire scam are that hundreds of acres acquired from farmers of   and adjoining village in Gurugram district at a low rate for “public purpose” was later licensed to real estate companies/builders/colonizers after bestowing out of term favours and concessions.
 
 On September 17, 2015, the CBI had registered an FIR in relation to the scam after which the agency had submitted charges before special CBI court against 34 persons.
 
 
