   officials never had any doubt that they would walk away with the Goa Pro League title this season but nobody believed they could do it in such an emphatic fashion.
 
  Sporting Clube reached a record 55 points this season in the Goa Pro League, and even though it’s for the first time that 12 teams featured in the league, Sporting’s 17 wins from 22 matches proved they were clearly a cut above the rest.
  
  “When we looked at our team list (at the start of the season), and the progress they were making in training, there was no doubt that we would settle for the title and nothing less,” said club CEO  .
  
  Sporting Clube finished their league engagements with 17 wins, four draws and the solitary loss against Churchill Brothers SC in the concluding league clash. To everyone’s eyes, the loss against Churchill came after Sporting Clube had already pocketed the title, but Victor admits an unbeaten record would have made them even happier.
  
  “In hindsight, yes, we should have won the league unbeaten,” said Victor.
  
  Coach Mateus Costa also admitted that winning the Goa Pro League with an unbeaten record would have made him proud.
  
  “After we won the league and were still left to play Churchill, I could sense that motivating them would be a problem. I was constantly asking them to stay focused,” said Costa.
  
  Having won the Goa Pro League and also the Police Cup last week, Sporting have now turned their focus to next season and are confident that they can continue to dominate.
  
  “All our players will continue with us (for the next season) and needless to say, we can only get better. We played fantastic   towards the closing stages of the season and proof of our dominance was provided in the Goa Police Cup when we had little problems in emerging champions,” said Victor.
  
  Sporting Clube defeated Churchill Brothers 3-1 in the Police Cup final.
  
  “Most of our players have been with us for a long time and even the youngsters are now measuring up to the challenge. The mix of old and new has worked well,” said Victor.
  
  Experienced campaigners like Joseph Clemente, Peter Carvalho, Marcus Mascarenhas and Victorino Fernandes all gave a good account of themselves but youngsters like George D’Souza, Quan Gomes, keeper Melroy Fernandes, Alesh Sawant and captain Glan Martins provide for plenty of hope for the future.
