NAGPUR: The unprecedented water shortage in Yavatmal district is hitting   the hardest. There are five dialysis units here, in different hospitals of the town. However, the procedures at three of the units have been hit due to lack of clean water, which is essential for the process.

 Large quantity of water is needed for dialysis. Impurities of the blood are flushed out through water, which is passed through the machine. The water has to be of ultra pure grade, and it is purified in a reverse osmosis (RO) plant before dialysis.
 
 As the regular sources have dried up this summer, water is being supplied through tankers. Even the dead storage of Bembla dam here is being tapped. Such water is coming with high level of impurities, making it difficult to carry out dialysis procedures.
 
 The Government Medical College (GMC) at Yavatmal does not have a dialysis unit, so patients have to depend on private sources.
 
 Those covered under the Jyotiba Phule Jeevandayee Yojana, which is the state government’s health insurance scheme, go to the  , a private set up in the town. However, the dialysis machine here is not working these days.
 
 The RO plant at the hospital has been damaged to the excessive impurities in the water available these days. Dr   said the membranes of the RO plant have been damaged due to high impurities, and dialysis cannot be done without pure water. “Earlier, the water was available through regular sources of the water supplies department. Now, we are depending on water from tankers and other random sources, which cannot be cleaned up even in a RO plant,” he said.
 
 This left 21 patients who needed dialysis stranded. They rushed to district collector  , seeking help. “The district administration has promptly acted and made arrangements for dialysis at Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences in neighbouring Wardha district, and at another hospital in Amravati. The transportation will be provided by GMC,” said Deshmukh.
 
 The officer admitted that the water crisis is grim but efforts are being undertaken to tide over the situation. Different sources are being tapped, including dead storage of dams like the Bembla project, he said.
 
 At another hospital, run by Dr Mahesh Shah, the two dialysis units are being sparingly used. “This is because of lack of pure water. The number of procedures conducted have come down to 20% of the normal level. We are only catering to serious patients, or those admitted at the hospital, and turning down others,” said Shah.
 
 The Sahjeevan Hospital also has a couple of dialysis machines. Dr Sunil Agrawal, the in-charge here, said that they are able to manage the show for now. Water is being drawn from the hospital’s own sources, he said.
 
 Dr Avinash Chaudhary of Amravati, at whose clinic some patients have been shifted from Yavatmal, said that never before has such a crisis arisen. “Five of the patients have been diverted to our hospital but they have not turned up yet,” he said.
 
 
