KOCHI: When   from   officiated the Kerala Blasters-Chennaiyin FC game in the   match in Kochi on Friday, he became only the second foreigner to have taken charge of a game in the fourth season. Indications are that as the business end of the season approaches there will be more foreign referees coming into the league to assure better quality especially in the face of an unprecedented dose of criticism of the quality of refereeing in the league.

 
 "It was not a decision taken now. It was always our plan to give Indian referees the more opportunities in the league stage and move on to foreigners towards the end of the season. Though at this stage, we can't confirm which all referees are coming,"   general secretary   told TOI.
 
 Conger, 39, a Fifa-listed referee, is one of the Oceania officials who will be in Russia for the World Cup later this year. He had a good outing on Friday letting the game flow and issued two bookings only. There was no contention about the penalty he awarded to Kerala either. Cameroonian Aurelien Wandji is the other foreigner to have refereed this season, standing in four games at the early stages in November. From then
 
 on, the burden has been shared among 14 Indian referees, many of them working in I-League matches also leaving them with little time to recover.
 
 This was a clear departure from the past editions considering eight of the 18 referees from abroad last season. The move to appoint inexperienced Indians was also down to the availability of qualified foreigners. "What we are trying to do is give as many opportunities to Indian referees as we could. About the foreigners, it is a question of availability. There are AFC Cup matches happening too. So it's not easy," said Das.
 
 Then there is the cost factor. While an Indian referee is paid Rs 11500 per match (for three days: day prior to the match, matchday and day after the match), a foreign referee on average gets five to six times this amount for a game -750 US dollars (48,500 rupees) on matchday and around 250 US dollars (16,000 rupees) on the other two days. "Since we are working on a small budget, we can't always afford to have foreign referees. The fees have gone up in India too. Once the Indians get better, their remuneration will also increase," said Das.
 
  franchises and coaches have been vocal about their criticism of the standards of officiating as a lot of games have witnessed controversial decisions by Indian referees who have faltered not only due to their inexperience but also due to a tiresome schedule. For example, Tejus Nagvenkar, one of the six Indian referees with a   badge, did two ISL games in three days.
 
 "This is part of the learning process. Initially there will be problems. Franchises are not bothered whether the official is Indian or foreign. They are only worried about the quality," said Das.
 
