PATNA: Young girls and boys thronged the city parks and restaurants and exchanged customized gifts on the Valentine’s Day on Wednesday.

 Eco Park and Patna zoo remained the favourite spots for many youths who enjoyed boat ride and a day out in bright sunshine. Customized gifts were flavour of the day to give extra personal touch to the items they exchanged to mark the day. “The traditional gifts like cards and teddies are still an all-time favourite. But lately, customized gift hampers ranging from Rs500 to Rs4,000 have gained popularity. They are usually filled with teddy bear, personalized photo frame, chocolates and flowers,” said Aman Kumar of a gift corner at East Boring Canal Road.
 
 There were a few couples who preferred to fly to exotic destinations to rejuvenate their feelings for each other. One such couple was that of Nivedita Jha and her husband Dr Shakeel, who were in Goa to celebrate their 31 years of communion. “We are in Goa with friends and celebrated the Valentine’s Day in a restaurant which also organized a musical programme,” said Jha.
 
 Another such lovely couple is Quazi Roomie and  , who have spent eight years of a happily married life. The couple is at Delhi on the occasion and has made arrangements for a dinner date. “We were supposed to return to Patna today, but we rescheduled our plans and are celebrating the day of love in the national capital,” said Roomie.
 
 As some of the singles in the city had planned to pamper themselves, 28-year-old Divya Kothari spent hours at an spa. “Being an organized person, I tend to try utilizing my time as much possible,” said Kothari. Another such soul was   resident  , who celebrated the day with her other single friends. “V-Day is for everyone, I believe. It is as much for singles as for the couples,” she said. 
 
 Restaurants celebrated the day with special decorations. The one near   organized a live performance by a local band. Although the restaurant had got only 22 bookings till late afternoon, more guests were expected to walk in for the candlelight dinner. Red hearts and balloons decorated the interior of the restaurant while a contemporary rickshaw had been decked up with roses and balloons as the selfie spot for the occasion.
 
 Another franchise restaurant near Dak Bungalow roundabout had a huge walk-in customer rush in the evening. “Over the past few years, Valentine’s Day has become a special favourite for the population. We organized interactive games at the restaurant to add a little more spice to the fun,” said the restaurant owner.
 
 
