When veteran actor Sihi Kahi Chandru’s daughter,  , was ready for her stint on the big screen, it was to be with a film opposite  , (more popularly known as  ). “But that was not to be. I got to make up for that with what is officially my second film,  ,” says the young actress.
When the offer came along, Hitha says that her first reaction was to reject it, as she had just committed to be a part of a dance reality show. But the role intrigued her and after multiple discussions with near-and-dear ones, she decided to take it up. “I used to rehearse for the show from 9 am to 4 pm and then report on the set of Yogi Duniya by 6 pm to shoot till 2.30 am. Since the film revolves around betting in the Majestic belt, much of it has been shot at night. My character is Yogi’s love interest in the film and she is the one who changes his life around. In fact, he changes her too, making her believe that a better future awaits her. I shot for the film between August and December, most of which coincided with the time I was doing the dance show as well. So, I used to be really zonked out at times and Yogi thought that I was still in character even during our breaks. He would then try and cheer me up, when all I wanted was to crash out,” says Hitha. 
 Yogi, she adds, was an exemplary co-star. “It helped that we are family friends, but I also think that the one schedule of the now-stalled Snake Naga ensured that we were very comfortable in each other’s company. Yogi is very chilled out on set, but is also very particular about doing all it takes to get a shot right. He was very helpful and kept me at ease during the shoot. Considering that we had a lot of night shoots, the team of the film made sure that the mood on set was always light and jovial. For me, the days of shooting for Yogi Duniya were challenging, but it was also a lot of fun, as I had no time for anything else. I have no complaints , though, as you rarely get to do two things that excite you at the same time,” says Hitha.
 In the time since, the actress has completed work on two other projects, each of which sees her in a different avatar. “While my first film, 1/4 Kg Preethi, was a breezy rom-com, Yogi Duniya is a rather dark drama. My next,  , is a road movie that presents a slice-of-life story. I’ve also done a role in Thurthu Nirgamana, in which I play Sunil Raoh’s love interest. I am very excited about this film, as it is a fantasy,” she signs off.
 
