Mumbai: After domestic agencies it is the turn of   and   to review their credit-rating on the fraud-hit PNB. Both the international rating agencies have said that they are revisiting their rating for the bank and there is a likelihood of a  . According to Moody’s, the scale of the fraud is big enough to bring the rating of PNB below statutory requirements.

 A downgrade of the bank by an international agency will make it more expensive for the lender to borrow from international  . While Fitch has a BBB- rating on the bank, Moody’s has placed the bank at Baa3. Fitch has a viability rating of bb, which has been placed on a rating watch with negative implications.
 
 Referring to the over Rs 11,300-crore   fraud, Moody’s said, “The primary driver for today’s rating action is the risk of weakening of the bank’s stand-alone credit profile, as a result of the discovery of a number of fraudulent transactions.”
 
 The fraudulent transactions represent about 230   (100bps = 1 percentage point) of the bank’s risk-weighted assets as on December 31, 2017. This will result in the lender’s capital adequacy falling below regulatory requirement. If PNB has to provide for the whole amount, it would need to raise funds from the government to comply with the minimum Basel III capital requirement of an 8% common equity tier-1 (CET1) ratio by March 31, 2019, Moody’s said.
 
 Since the announcement of the fraudulent exposure, PNB’s   has fallen by about 30% till close of trade on February 20, 2018, limiting the lender’s access to  .
 
 According to Fitch, the bank has been placed on a rating watch with negative implication following the fraud. This indicates that the lender is likely to be downgraded. Fitch said that it will take a decision once clarity emerges on the extent of control failures within PNB and how the management plans to address them. “Significant control failures that attract substantial management time to rectify would be likely to weaken our view of risk appetite and management, and result in a downgrade,” the agency said.
 
 
