HYDERABAD: Customs officials’ overenthusiasm to go after gold smugglers seems to have landed them in a fix.

 
  (AIU) sleuths of the customs department conducted a search aboard an   flight that arrived at   (RGIA) from Jeddah on Tuesday and seized 79 tola gold concealed in the aircraft’s wall. However, a passenger, who is suspected to have kept the gold in the cavity, later claimed he legally brought the yellow metal and even before he could declare it at the customs check area, the AIU team seized it.
 
 Based on passenger profiling and intelligence input, the AIU team zeroed in on the 25-year-old Delhi-based passenger, who boarded the Air India’s Jeddah-Hyderabad-Mumbai flight (AI 966). The AIU team boarded the flight when it landed at the   on Tuesday morning and carried out a search.
 
 “We found four gold pieces, wrapped in a duct tape, concealed in a cavity in the aircraft’s wall adjacent to the suspect’s seat. We seized the gold,” a customs official said.
 
 However, as the gold was not found in possession of the passenger, the AIU sleuths had to let him continue his onward journey to Mumbai.
 
 After landing at the Mumbai airport, the passenger opted for the ‘red channel’ at the customs check area, indicating he was carrying dutiable goods. The passenger told the customs officials that his gold was seized by their counterparts in Hyderabad.
 
 “If he pays duty for the gold, he can take it. Though we are certain that the gold was hidden in the cavity to be picked up by someone travelling as a domestic passenger in same flight from Hyderabad to Mumbai, we could not catch anyone red handed. With passenger claiming that the gold belongs to him and he kept it in the cavity for safety, it becomes a difficult case to prove the smuggling angle,” a customs source said.
 
 Senior customs officials, requesting anonymity, told TOI that instead of seizing the gold at the   airport, the AIU sleuths should have waited for the suspect or his associate to pick it up and make an attempt to smuggle it out of the Mumbai airport. The AIU officials of Hyderabad were now in contact with their Mumbai counterparts and the passenger to see how to wriggle out of the situation.
 
 
