It was on May 15, 1999 that Late Captain Saurabh Kalia was captured by Pakistani troops who had infiltrated the Indian side of the Line of Control (LOC). He was leading a patrol party comprising five sepoys of the 4 Jat   that was assigned the job of checking if the snow had retreated enough at the Bajrang Post, situated at the over 13,000 ft high Kaksar Langpa area, in the rugged, treeless terrain of Ladakh mountains. “For the next 22 days, Captain Saurabh and his men were mercilessly tortured by the Pakistani soldiers who burnt their bodies with cigarettes, pierced their ears, punctured their eyes, broke most of their teeth and bones, chopped off the limbs and mutilated their private organs before finally shooting them dead. They were not given the basic rights prisoners of war deserve according to the Geneva Convention. It’s been close to two decades since but the guilty are yet to be punished. I want to tell the story of their bravery and sacrifice through my film,” says Telugu boy,   who is directing the Hindi film tentatively 
titled  .
 
 Srikanth has also written the film. “The events leading to Lt. Saurabh’s capture preceded the Kargil war. He was the first to notice the Pakistani incursion, we all know about how the war played out and the magnitude of damage it caused; but how many of us know the events that lead up to it? I will narrate the story from Lt. Saurabh’s point of view. He came from a brilliant family and was inspired to join the Indian Army,” says Srikanth who directed two films — Utt Patang and Telugu and Tamil remake of Marathi hit,   — before Tagda Raho.
 
 Group Captain   (retd) is working as the creative consultant for the film which will also explore the relationship Lt. Saurabh shared with his family and his senior Captain Amit Bhardwaj, who was also murdered in an ambush before the Kargil while leading the search for Lt. Saurabh and the jawaans. Srikanth says Tagda Raho will be an ‘authentic war film’ with battle scenes devoid of exaggerated drama. “There’s going to be intense drama and the focus will be more on interpersonal relationships apart from war sequences,” he rounds off.
 
 
