Noapara: Residents of this oldest urban settlement in Bengal are not so bothered about election results. They are afraid of the two Singhs and their ways on poll day. Senior Singh is Trinamool strongman and Bhatpara MLA Arjun Singh and Singh (Jr) is his brother-in-law and Trinamool’s Noapara candidate Sunil Singh. 

 Sunil Singh is no match to others if money and muscle power is an index of winning elections. Singh (Jr) is the Garulia municipality chairman that comes under the Noapara assembly seat and runs his own business. The third advantage for Sunil is the rise of Arjun in this belt following the exit of Mukul Roy. What’s more is that the party has taken care of former Trinamool MLA Manju Basu, who came to terms with her reported “isolation” within the party after her initial barbs.
 
 Taking all these into consideration, Sunil is set to win the race in a four-pronged contest in which CPM, BJP, Congress are in the fray. This is in contrast to the 2016 poll scene when Madhusudan Ghosh of Congress defeated sitting Trinamool MLA Manju because he was the jote candidate of both Congress and CPM. A look at the constituency puts Trinamool far ahead in the race. All auto rickshaws and totos running in the locality carry posters of Sunil and Mamata Banerjee. All the eye-catching billboards are from Trinamool with the opposition having a feeble presence.
 
 Yet, the Singh brigade is suspect about old Congress settlements in Manirampur, Ardalibazar under Barrackpore Cantonment area, parts of North Barrackpore Municipality where Manju’s loyalists have a presence, and CPM strongholds in Mohanpur and Sheuli gram panchayats, Palta Sevagram, and parts of Ishapore. Sensing it, Arjun has handpicked one Shibu Yadav from the Cantonment area. He is annoyed with the “Trojan horses” in North Barrackpore municipality area. 
 
 BJP, that has hiked its tally manifold in the last few bypolls, doesn’t seem to be the main rival here though the constituency population has more or less an equal share of Bengali and non-Bengali population. CPM candidate Gargi Chatterjee is trying her best to rally voters to booths on poll day. CPM leaders are also getting ready for putting up a resistance in its support bases though no one was sure if they could field polling agents in booths under Garulia municipality.
 
 
