MUMBAI: The   legislature’s four-week budget session began on a stormy note on Monday.

 Governor   expressed strong displeasure over the non-availability of Marathi translation facility for the legislators after which chief minister   later tendered an unconditional apology.
 
 
 Rao asked legislative council chairman   and legislative assembly speaker Haribhau Bagde to take cognisance of the non-availability of Marathi translation during his address to the joint session of the state legislature. “I am of the view that it needs to be considered with utmost seriousness and strong action needs to be taken against those people responsible for this lapse. I request you to kindly take appropriate action and inform me,” Rao said. Initially, the governor began his speech in Marathi and later switched to English. However, legislators claimed to heard the translation in Gujarati, instead of Marathi. Some members immediately realized the goof-up and lodged a protest over non-availability of Marathi translation. Education minister Vinod Tawde stepped in, reached the translator’s chamber and read out Rao’s speech in Marathi. Leader of the opposition   and NCP leader Ajit Pawar condemned the government for ignoring the importance of Marathi. A senior bureaucrat admitted that the goof-up took place due to lack of coordination. The task of reading the governor’s speech in Marathi is entrusted to a Marathi news anchor. In accordance with the schedule, the anchor first reached   for a rehearsal of the speech and later reached Vidhan Bhavan. The anchor was proceeding towards the central hall of the state legislature, but he was restrained as the governor was on his way to the council hall. The anchor was directed to reach the hall from a different route. A security guard was provided to him, but he never reached and instead landed on the ground floor and was waiting there for further directions.
 
 A bureaucrat said it was the parliamentary affairs department’s responsibility to coordinate with the translator and ensure that he reached the venue in advance. “Two separate officers were nominated for the task, but there was lack of communication and coordination at all levels, as a result Vidyasagar Rao and Fadnavis had to face an embarrassing situation. The CM must fix the responsibility for the goof-up,” he said.
 
