NOIDA: Students of Class XII in Noida have expressed concern over the CBSE exam dates as the physical education test is scheduled just a day after the Joint Entrance Exam, which continues till late in the day in two shifts. 

 The students complained they would get just a few hours to prepare for the physical education paper the next day after returning from the JEE. Some of them said the situation would be worse if they were to appear in   centres in other states and return home that day itself. 
 
 According to the schedule the CBSE announced on Wednesday, the physical education paper is scheduled for April 9, a day after the JEE, also organised by the CBSE. “I don’t think the dates have been planned well. According to the current schedule, we will return home after writing the JEE and get just a few hours to prepare for the physical education paper the next day. Does the CBSE not know about the pressure on the students?” asked a student of Amity International School. 
 
 Students who need to take the architecture paper are a more worried lot as the exam is in the second shift. “The second shift continues till late in the evening. How does the CBSE expect us to prepare for an exam in a few hours? It is the final exam after all,” said a student of   in Sector 37. A section of the students feared they might even miss the physical education paper if their JEE centres were located far from home. “I am worried about the physical education paper. I am yet to be allotted the JEE test centre. I stay in Kullu and my centre will most likely be either Shimla or Hamirpur. But if it is Delhi, I will not be able to return home in time for the physical education paper,” said another student. 
 
 A group of parents met the joint director of education (Meerut), Divyakant Shukla, on Friday and raised the issue with him. They were, however, told to contact the board instead. “It is very difficult for the students preparing for their final  . We want the CBSE to change the date of the physical education exam,” said  , who runs a coaching centre in Sector 26. CBSE spokesperson Rama Sharma said the board was aware of the students’ grievances. He, however, said he would have to consult senior officials to confirm if the board was planning to change the schedule. 
 
 Some students also rued that there was only a day’s gap between the English and physics papers.
