HYDERABAD:   sleuths from Hyderabad, on Thursday conducted searches in four states on offices and residences of directors of   Seeds of NSL group headquartered in Banjara Hills and   in SD Road in Secunderabad.

 Searches were related to alleged tax evasion of crores of rupees by these two companies in the name of exemption, claimed under agricultural income, said an I-T official.
 
 The department is probing allegations that each company claimed exemption for an income between Rs 100 crore and Rs 150 crore, stating it’s agricultural revenue whereas in reality they are buying seeds from farmers, which is business activity. Farmers are buying seeds for BT cotton and corn. If it’s established that it’s income from business, the firms will have to pay 30% tax with surcharge.
 
 I-T conducted searches and surveys at collection points, storage plants and mediator residences in the country in Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Gadwal and Mahabubnagar in Telangana, Eluru, Nandyal and Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, Ahmedabad and Himmatnagar in  , and Davanagare and Bellary in Karnataka. Residences of Nuziveedu Seeds chairman M Prabhakar Rao were also searched. I-T sleuths collected documents from all raided premises for analyses, said sources.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi, sources said seed companies are claiming they had a contract with farmers and they took on lease around 40,000 acres of land each and supplied foundation seeds and gave technical inputs to farmers and ‘reimbursed’ expenses of farmers. “Seed companies are not conducting agricultural operations, but only procuring multiplied hybrid parent seed from farmers. Activity of assessees don’t fall under agricultural operations to qualify income as exempt under Section 10(1) of Act,” said the sources.
 
 However, seed companies are insisting it is agricultural activity. “All primary operations are performed by us in our lands or lands leased under direct supervision by engaging casual labour. Hybrid seeds are grown by farmers in lands, but leased out to the assessee company. Entire cost of production has to be reimbursed by the assessee to the farmers. Therefore, the hybrid seed operations were carried on by us in our leasehold lands."
 
 However, during searches, farmers gave statements to I-T sleuths, stating they have not leased out land and they are obligated to sell seeds to the company for which they are paid.Repeated phone calls and emails to Kaveri and Nuziveedu seeds for comments did not evoke any response.
 
