JAHNSI: A flying squad comrising three professors of   had a horrifying experience during checking at a degree college in   when a crowd surrounded them, pelted stones at their vehicle, closed the college gate, and freely used sticks and guns to intimidate them. The squad members were injured in the attack. The squad had found 30 girl students copying in a room in which the CCTVs had been switched off and had confiscated their copies. 

 As part of the ongoing drive against copying in, a team of five, including three professors,   (team leader), VK Singh, Vigyan Singh, an armed guard and a driver reached Shravan Kumar Diwedi Mahesh Kumar Pandey Degree College near   in Jalaun.
 
 During checking, the team entered a room where around 30 girls were copying. The room did not have a CCTV camera despite strict instructions from authorities. The team confiscated the copies. The squad further found that other cameras were also deliberately switched off.
 
 When the team sat in their vehicle to leave, a crowd surrounded them. Many in the crowd started pelting stones, smashing the vehicle's window panes. They also closed the main gate of the college and prevented the team from leaving. Some students started hitting the vehicle with sticks and opened fire. The policemen on duty watched helplessly and did nothing.
 
 The guard accompanying the squad fired in the air after which the vehicle somehow left the college but the miscreants started chasing it on the main road. The team saw a police patrol team at last which escorted them to  .
 
 The flying squad members met BU registrar CP Tiwari and registered an official complaint.
 
 Squad leader, Luvkush Diwedi said, “God saved us today. They were prepared to kill us. It seems to be a pre-planned attack since the college is notorious for cheating and we had caught students copying the day before too.”
 
 BU registrar CP Tiwari, who is also the city magistrate, said , “Today’s incident is very serious and strict action will be taken. I have ordered cancellation of today’s examination. I have also ordered registration of an FIR against the accused.”
 
 Jalaun ASP, SN Tiwari, said, “An FIR is being registered against the culprits and appropriate action will be taken against them.”
 
 
 
 
