GHAZIABAD: Commuters heading towards Meerut from different parts of the city and the adjoining national capital an expect a smooth drive soon. The state government has decided to revamp a 24.5km stretch between UP Gate at Delhi border and Qadrabad at Meerut border, which runs through the heart of  .

 UP deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya announced this on Wednesday, as part of a package to revamp a total of seven arterial roads of Ghaziabad. The total cost of the package will be over Rs 302 crore, including Rs 120 crore for the 24.5km stretch connecting Ghaziabad with Meerut.
 
 In fact, this stretch of road beginning from UP Gate is one of the busiest in the city in terms of vehicular traffic movement. From UP Gate, it runs through Kaushambi, Dabur T-point, Vaishali, Vasundhara, Mohan Nagar T-point, GT Road, Meerut Road T-point, Nandgram, Muradnagar and Modinagar.
 
 This stretch was earlier part of NH-58 but had been de-notified by the   in January 2016. The stretch subsequently passed to the ownership of the state public works department.
 
 “Repair and maintenance work on the entire stretch of de-notified NH-58 in Ghaziabad will go on as usual. The sum of Rs 120 crore will be used for widening certain stretches from Meerut Road T-point till Qadrabad to six lanes wherever roads are narrower than that,” PWD executive engineer Maneesh Verma told TOI.
 
 The package announced by Maurya also includes two other important stretches of roads within the city — the   which is used for travelling to most government offices, including  , district court, municipal corporation, police headquarters and the collectorate; and the Mohan Nagar-Loni-Wazirabad Road.
 
 Funding for different roads under the package will, however, be from different sources. Funds for Saunda Road, Duhai Road and NH-58 Shahpur Road will be made available from the Central Road Fund constituted by the Union government for development and improvement of state roads.
 
 Funds for Mohan Nagar–Loni–Wazirabad Road and Meerut Road will be made available from the Inter-State Connectivity Scheme of UP state government. The Hapur Road widening project will be funded separately by the state government.
 
 Work on another 4-km stretch of road in Ghaziabad, from the 18km milestone of Delhi-Yamunotri Marg till Khajuri Pushta, will soon commence. A sum of Rs 40 crore has been granted for this project from the Central Road Fund. “Several road infrastructure projects in the state were pending for clearance before the erstwhile BSP and SP governments. These roads will now be constructed by our state government using state-of-the-art techniques that will ensure their lifespan till about 25 years while cost incurred will be lesser by 30%,” said Maurya.
 
 
