Madurai: A building in disuse at Alanganallur Boys’ Government Higher Secondary School in   district is sporting a new look now, thanks to the   who converged through WhatsApp. 

 The 1000-squarefoot building, which was misused by anti-social elements to consume booze and smoke ganja till September has been converted into a multipurpose hall with modern facilities.
 
 The group mobilised Rs 10 lakh to renovate the building which would be put to use soon as a smart classroom or an auditorium. The project would have taken at least twice the amount had the government taken up the work through tendering. They could also restrict the budget as they themselves put in the labour for refurbishing the building. 
 
 The alumni of the school — established in 1952 — included civil engineers, painters as well as construction labourers. The building now sports marbonite flooring, false ceiling and provisions for amplifiers and projector. Works are underway for installing electrical equipment like lighting, fans and air conditioners. 
 
 The idea was broached by Pon Kumar, an instrumentation engineer from Alanganallur who resides near the school. Kumar who actively took part in the jallikattu protest in Alanganallur in early 2017, had known the power of social media and tapped it to mobilise people who passed out from the school during various periods. 
 
 There are now 240 members including those settled abroad in the WhatsApp group. 
 
 But it was not a cakewalk either, as not many people were willing to contribute initially. However, things changed once the works kicked off. “Once there was constructive development, many chipped in and made valuable contributions. The works would be completed in a matter of a few days. We have invited the district collector who has agreed to inaugurate the building,” Pon Kumar, who passed out in 2003, said. 
 
 “This is just the beginning”, says R Parandaman, another alumnus, a civil engineer by profession. 
 
 “We have plans to revamp other buildings step by step in the coming years. The enthusiasm from the alumni is now gaining momentum,” he said. The renovation apart, Pon Kumar added that they wanted to send across a message to others. “We also wanted to create an inspiration for alumni of other government schools to do something for their alma mater”
 
 The alumni believe that they can reduce the burden of the government through such initiatives. 
 
 Once the facility in the government schools improved, it would also stop the mad rush after private schools, they say.
 
 
