VIJAYAWADA: The Happy City   will be held in   from April 10 to 12. The event will focus on four important aspects of modern life — citizen-centric governance, liveable communities, clean and healthy environment, and vibrant economies.

 Capital Region Development Authority (CRDA) has roped in a number of international partners for this summit, including the United Kingdom, Singapore, Finland, Japan, UAE, Bhutan, Costa Rica, Columbia, Tanzania, Israel, Spain, and the United States of America. The summit will be attended by more than 1,000 people. There will be a special session by Jaggi Vasudev, who will give his take on happiness. Later, Sadhguru will interact with other participants.
 
 Peter Vesterbacka, the brains behind the mobile game Angry Birds, is expected to participate in the event as well. Other eminent personalities to take part in the panel discussions include likes  , ex-mayor of Medellin (Colombia) and Edgar Mora, winner of Lee Kuan Yew City Prize mayor from Costa Rica, Jane Wiseman, president for institute for excellence in government at Harvard Kennedy School, Julie Rusk, chief of civic Well being in Santa Monica (US), John Boyd, CEO of system mental health services at Sutter Health, Khoo Teng Chye, executive director at the centre for liveable Cities (Singapore), Peter Vesterbacka and Jagan Shah, director at NIUA.
 
 Apart from the panel discussions with global experts on urban trends, the best practices, and design principles, an urban-technology pitch competition will be held. As part of this, entrepreneurs will pitch best possible urban innovations for a chance to win MoUs, cash prizes, and funding. Further, a hackathon will be held for citizens where they will be design a public space in Vijayawada. Among other events, focused workshops on measuring city happiness and design thinking and innovation for solving critical city challenges have gathered a lot of curiosity. Other events include an exhibition where innovative industry players, start-ups, and countries can showcase cutting-edge city solutions. There will also be an AP Pavilion to showcase Amaravati vision and other urban innovations.
 
 “The summit will be a great forum for discussions on urban issues that affect citizen happiness. Most of the urbanisation happening world-over is in developing countries, and Amaravati will lead to the new urbanisation paradigm – to design cities with happiness as the key metric. This requires collective effort, research, collaboration and most importantly innovation, which are focus areas of the summit” CRDA commisioner   told TOI.
 
 
