KOCHI: In June 2015,   Panackal, vicar of   received a 'Laudato Si' encyclical (a papal letter) on environment and climate change from the  , which stressed on the need to embrace renewable energy, including solar power. 

 Inspired by Pope Francis's call to actively combat the harmful effects of climate change, the vicar and his parishioners were looking for ways to conserve energy. It was during that time the idea of setting up solar panels came up. This eventually led to the installation of the 15kW rooftop grid - tied solar power plant at Mariya Sadan at the cathedral on Saturday.
 
 "It's our responsibility to protect the environment. As stewards of the earth we need to love and respect nature. In addition to that, we had to pay around Rs 25, 000 - Rs 30, 000 per month for electricity consumption alone. The electric consumption in our church was witnessing a steep rise. The papal letter was an eye - opener to us which made us to come up with cost - effective solution to solve the energy crisis and cut - down the expenses incurred in this regard," said Judis Panackal.
 
 The solar power plant was installed with the help of KSEB, ANERT and Bengaluru - based  . "The 15kW rooftop installation spanning across 1,500 sq ft consist of 48 panels. As many as 65 units of electricity can be generated from this solar power plant on a daily basis. It will also reduce the carbon emission to an extent," said Ciju K Raj, general manager for Kerala Projects - Orbit.
 
 Regarding the project cost Fr Judis said that they had to spend around Rs 8 lakh for the setting up of the solar power plant. "At first the project cost was around Rs 11 lakh. However, with subsidy offered by ANERT it came down to Rs 8 lakh," said Fr Judis.
 
 Archbishop of Verapoly, Joseph Kalathiparambil, during the inaugural ceremony of the solar roof top grid - tied system on Saturday said that the solar energy is the need of the hour and expressed his hope that in the coming day's churches and church-run institutions and the faithful will do their bit to follow a green path to save mother earth.
 
