BENGALURU: Colourful costumes, varied tableaux and ample song and dance — a spirit of camaraderie marked   on Thursday which saw thousands of   members come together.

 The community was celebrating the 2617th   (birth anniversary) of Lord Mahavir. Scores of members marched from Town Hall to Freedom Park, in what organizers claimed was the largest celebration of the occasion in the country. The procession was flagged off by mayor R Sampath Raj and BJP MP PC Mohan. Men, women and children, dressed as historical figures, walked past as some women astride motorbikes moved on slowly through CBD.
 
 Sajjan Raj Mehta, trade activist and former office-bearer of Jain Yuva Sangathan (JYS), which has been organizing the event in Bengaluru for 28 years, said the celebration aimed at instilling the principles and values of Jainism among youth as well as the general public. Freedom Park, where the procession converged, hosted healthscreening camps for the young and the elderly, as well as cancer screening for women.
 
 “Jains are committed to serving the community and we want people to take advantage of the stalls. Blood donation camps have also been set up. The idea is to reinforce the values among our community members, which in Bengaluru add up to approximately two lakh,” he said. Mehta said it was being observed that the youngsters of thecommunity were straying from values preached by saints. “Attending convents and getting exposed to Western culture has pushed many of them to drinking, smoking and eating non-vegetarian food. We like to get them involved in cultural activities and social service,” he said.
 
 Preksha Mehta, a 22-yearold entrepreneur and student, who has been attending the celebrations for 10 years, said: “We try and get people to participate in themed skits and programmes revolving around Jain values. Once they take part and see how rich our culture is, they won’t feel like going against what we are taught,” she said.
 
 The Jain International Trade Organization, along with several other charitable trusts within JYS, is offering scholarships to needy students, affordable housing on a shared payment basis and hostelfacilities to outstation Jain students who come here to study. A Jain Global Card, as a mark of identification, has been set up by JITOtoform a global community that can collaborate on a single platform. There are an estimated 42 lakh Jains in the country as per the latest Census.
 
