KOCHI: Many city-based hospitals are now making their presence felt in peripheral areas by tying up with smaller hospitals. Major hospitals are now open for specialty and super specialty consultation tie-ups with 25-100 bedded hospitals, as cardiology, orthopaedics and even nephrology units are in demand.

 “We are associating with local hospitals, instead of buying or acquiring smaller ones.   delivery pattern is changing now. We have to adapt to the times and see whether low cost healthcare can be delivered at affordable rate. This is the need of the hour, considering the preparations required for Modicare, the mega healthcare insurance scheme of the Union government,” said Kerala Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) chairman Dr M I Sahadulla.
 
 Both big and small scale hospitals claim that this arrangement ensures a win-win situation and is also advantageous to the patients. The benefits are shared equally.
 
 “The service of leading doctors is now made available at smaller hospitals,” said Dr  , managing director, Mohan Hospital, Ermalloor, that has tied up with VPS Lakeshore. The 25-bedded hospital now has cardiology and orthopaedic units with consultants from VPS Lakeshore.
 
 Interestingly, it is not just private hospitals that the major players are looking at. Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) recently signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with   hospital, an autonomous body established by the state government at  . “They have invested in infrastructure but don’t have people to run it. We have entered into a pact to run cardiology and cardio vascular thoracic surgery units. If the smaller hospitals don’t upgrade, they will have to shut down due to increased costs in 5 years,” pointed out Dr  , medical superintendent, AIMS.
 
 Meanwhile, Aster MIMS, which has already entered into tie-ups with hospitals in Kozhikode, is now planning a similar move for Aster Medcity. “We will start one by way of consultation and second by involving in department wise activity. Instead of going and building a new hospital at a new place, we would like to associate with already established hospitals,” said   chairman and managing director Dr Azad Moopen.
 
