MUMBAI: In what could be seen as a victory for protesting students at the premier   ( ), the   by Friday released around Rs 10 crore. While Rs 4 crore was given to the institute a few days back, the UGC representative, on campus to review the matter, announced on Friday the sanction of an additional Rs 6 crore. The continuing strike at the institute over withdrawal of   under the Government of India-Post Matric Scholarship (GOI-PMS) entered its 25th day on Friday.

 UGC joint secretary Sunita Siwach, a member of the expert panel formed by MHRD to probe demands by the protesting students, and also give recommendations, was on the campus on Friday. The panel’s meeting, which commenced at 10am went on till late evening. The panel also had representatives of students from across the four TISS campuses.
 
 A faculty from the institute said the funds released, however, were against pending dues UGC owes the institution over the last few years. “The UGC had to release around Rs 11 crore out of the sanctioned money. Though there is no clarity yet on what exactly these funds have been released for against salary or non-salary grants the institute will issue some clarity in a day or two,” said the professor. Students’ scholarship funds come under the non-salary grants given by UGC.
 
 A student said the UGC representative, during their meeting, announced grants issued by the commission over the last few years. “But the calculation was based on total funds released under salary as well as non-salary grants. Salary grants are used for teachers’ salary and constitutes a major sum, but we have been seeking a raise in the non-salary grants. The Centre has been cutting on the non-salary grants which are used for development,” said the student. In fact, the institute’s requirement for non-salary grants has been around Rs 25 crore for the last few years, but the UGC sanctioned only Rs 14 crore in 2014-15. That sum too was reduced to Rs 6-7 crore after 2015-16, said the student, adding that they have been seeking a raise in this fund.
 
 Based on Friday’s meeting, a recommendation report is likely to be submitted by the month-end.
 
 
