BENGALURU: A nine-member gang, which is suspected to have pushed over two tonnes of ganja into the market in the past five years, was arrested by   ( ). The gang members, all from Kerala, were based in Bengaluru and their business was spread across neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Kerala.

 Police have seized 108kg ganja worth over Rs 30 lakh besides two cars from the gang. “This is the first time that city police have recorded such a large ganja haul in a single case,” said police commissioner T  .
 
 The arrested were identified as Nainesh, 36, Shinaj, 27,  , 25, and  , 20, all natives of Thrissur, Prajildas T D, 27, of Kochi, Anas M H, 26, and  , 29, of Aluva, Sajan Das, 22, of Thiruvananthapuram and Akshaykumar C K, 22, of Malappuram.
 
 Police said Nainesh, the gang leader, who lived in Indiranagar, had been into drug trafficking along with his associate Vicky for several years. However, the duo parted ways due to some differences and Nainesh formed a gang of his own by recruiting youngsters from different parts of Kerala, police said.
 
 The gang used to procure ganja from a yet-to-be-identified supplier in Odisha. Nainesh used to make online payments to the supplier, following which he would get confirmation about the date of delivery. The supplier would direct them to come to Kajuvaka, a place in the Naxal-affected region of Odisha.
 
 “We had information that the gang was peddling ganja and we stepped up surveillance. Around 3am on Saturday, Nainesh and others arrived at the spot in two cars (KL-46 L-1543 and KL-16 B-7674). Our men surrounded the cars and nabbed the accused. We found ganja packets weighing 108kg hidden below the seats,” a police officer said.
 
 Preliminary probe revealed that the gang used to bring ganja from Odisha every fortnight and distribute it in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. A portion of the consignment was sold to youngsters in Bengaluru’s Ejipura, Murugeshpalya, Banaswadi, Hennur, K R Puram, Ramamurthynagar and other areas. The members used to sell ganja packets weighing 8-10g to college students and working professionals for Rs 300-500 each.Cops recovered an electronic weighing scale, packaging material and equipment, nine mobile phones and ATM cards from Nainesh’s house.
 
