While   is busy shooting for his upcoming film based on Mathematician  , who is the founder of  , an educational programme that provides coaching to underprivileged children for admission in IITs, the math wizard was in Doon for a discussion held at World Integrity Centre recently. During his visit, the mathematician shared with us why he likes the people of  , his journey so far, and why he opted for Hrithik when he was asked who he’d like to see as him on screen. 
 
 
 
 Kumar says he is impressed with the hard work and dedication of the people here. He adds, "Uttarakhand ke logon mein jo development karne ki bhawna hai woh kisi aur state mein maine nahin dekhi hai. I met a Doon boy Shitij, who has made an app to connect teachers from different parts of the world with students."
 Kumar adds, "It is motivating to see young minds working for social causes." Talking about the state government’s initiatives for skill developments, he says, "It is very important for youngsters of any state to nurture their skills and state government's efforts to help youngsters to gain skills should be applauded. In the coming year, we are planning to bring Super 30 to Uttarakhand."
 
  
  (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
 
 
 
 It's been years since Anand Kumar started his program to help students from economically weaker section, he says it is his journey as a student that compelled him to start the program. He says, "From an underprivileged student to a teacher to students who come from economically weaker sections, it's been a long journey. I was inspired to start this programme after meeting a hard-working student, who wanted to study in the IIT, but didn't have resources to join a coaching institute. Starting with him, today, hundreds of our students have either graduated from various IITs, or are studying there."
 
 
 
 Talking about his upcoming biopic that stars Hrithik Roshan portraying Kumar, he says, "I am very excited about the film. The director of the film,  , asked me whom I' d want to see portraying myself on the silver screen and my reply was Hrithik Roshan. I feel Hrithik is extremely talented and can play my role with the same passion with which I teach my students. Hrithik and I have spent a lot of time together to prepare him for the film. He's understood my background, family and the city I come from to a large extent and will do justice to the role."
 
 
 
 Sharing more about the motivation behind his journey, he says, "All the awards, honours and documentaries make me feel good. Jab koi samman milta hai toh achha lagta hai aur umeed badhti hai. Meeting Amitabh Bachchan is one of the best moments of my life. I won '25 lakh at a show, which I invested in the programme. Apart from these things, when an economically weak student makes it to national institutes like IITs, it makes me feel really proud and motivated."
 
