Trichy: The third week of Happy Streets programme to be held on Sunday will be the one to watch out for girls and women as several exciting events have been lined up for them to participate, learn and get entertained. The Times of India, with the support of Trichy Corporation and Trichy City Police, had kickstarted the Happy Streets programme at Thillai Nagar 10th Cross Street (west) on February 25. 

 One of the highlights of the forthcoming programme would be a special session on women’s health and fitness by Pink Fitness Team. Besides this, women’s self-defence session and special silambam performance by all-women’s team will be conducted. The public would get to see an eye-catching performance by 50 highly talented skaters from Srirangam Roller Skating academy who would be exhibiting their acrobatic skills. 
 
 The general public will also get a chance to showcase their hidden talents to the city in the Talent Corner. Participants of the programme in the last two weeks had heaped praise on the initiative and even come up with a few useful suggestions. Some called it a “much-needed stress-buster” while many said the Happy Streets programme served as an eye-opener for them to be more “environmental and health conscious”. 
 
 The second week of Happy Streets saw an increase in the number of participants as word spread. This meant that people from other localities – apart from Thillai Nagar residents – also gathered to witness the programme. In the first two weeks, apart from eagerly learning yoga and zumba for physical and mental well-being, fun events like lemon-in-the-spoon, outfield board games, cycle-tyre racing, top-spinning, sack race and more were enjoyed by children and adults alike. 
 
 Similar to last week, a varied range of activities like zumba, yoga, cycling, skateboarding and aerobics will be organised this Sunday. Special zones and arenas like reading zone, sport zone and fun zone have been put up where like-minded individuals can join hands and participate in the activities. 
 
 
