CHANDIGARH: The   government is planning to set up a designated help desk for facilitating Indians settled abroad, especially those in  , who want to   in the state. Chief minister   on Friday ordered the secretary of industries and commerce department–cum-CEO Invest Punjab,  , to explore the possibility of setting up a designated help desk abroad.

 As members of the   chamber of commerce met the chief minister on Friday at Chandigarh, the chief minister asked the delegation to suggest measures to further strengthen bilateral commerce and business ties between the two countries. The chief minister suggested the delegation to explore investment opportunities in sectors of mutual interest, such as education, skill development, agro-based industry and information technology. He assured the delegation of his government’s complete support to ensure overall development in the core sectors of health, education, agriculture and skill development in Punjab through transfer of technology and forging of technical collaborations between Punjab and Canada.
 
 Citing government’s ‘Connect with Your Roots’ programme launched by the chief minister during his UK visit in September last year, he said the programme would go a long way to help connect youngsters, especially the third generation, who had roots here in Punjab. He said similar programme should also be initiated for the youth whose parents or grandparents had immigrated to Canada from Punjab.
 
 The chief minister also suggested introduction of certain courses and changes in current academic curriculum to conform to the Canadian education system in order to enable the local youth get gainful employment in Canada.
 
 The visiting Canadian delegation led by   said as natives of Punjab it was their moral duty to contribute something tangible for the growth of the state and would make concerted efforts to boost the level of trade between Punjab and Canada.
 
 Dhanjal apprised the chief minister of the Canadian technology for converting paddy straw into plywood, which would not only help the state get rid of this menace but also help supplement the income of the farmers.
 
 
