BENGALURU: A second set of water samples taken from Sobha Developers’ construction site in Varthur, where two workers died of cholera last week, has tested negative for the water-borne disease.

 “On December 30, we took water samples from three sources; the borewell, sump and a tank. While all three tested negative for Vibrio cholerae, two samples, taken from the sump and the tank, tested positive for E.coli. On Tuesday, we took another sample from a different source from the same locality. However, we still have three more days to complete the probe. We’ll also need to do a stool examination on one patient,” said Dr  , medical officer, Varthur primary health centre.
 
 Water samples taken on December 29 too had tested negative for cholera. A third set of samples has been collected on Tuesday and their results are awaited. Twenty-five people showed cholera-like symptoms at the construction site last week. They were rushed to St John’s hospital on Friday. Two of them died the same day. All the affected had been put up at one of the two makeshift camps at the site. 
 
 Highlighting the pathetic condition that the workers were living in at the camps, T  , advocate and human rights activist, has filed a complaint with the  .
 
 “The 4,000-5,000 migrant workers housed on the Sobha Dream Acres site, have been deprived of  ,  , sanitation system and safe drinking water. Due to this, at least three people have died. The workers have been denied their rights, and now about 3,000 of them have fled the site. The families of each of the dead should be given Rs 25 lakh, an inquiry must be conducted, and the accused must be arrested,” stated the complaint.
 
 The labour department has issued a notice to the developers. “We visited the site on Monday, but since everything had been cleaned already, we were not able to inspect much. We’ve issued a notice to the builders under the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Act, and the Contract Labour Act; they have to reply in eight days. We’ve also issued a letter to them regarding the compensation that needs to be paid to the families of the deceased, as well as the payment of the charges of those hospitalized; they must reply to this by Thursday,” said additional labour commissioner H L Guruprasad. 
 
