Overhead tanks in   of the city are a breeding ground for  , but people living in such houses are less vulnerable to the disease, a study by the Research by National Institute of Malaria Research,   Campus, has found. These mosquitoes find people living under thatched and asbestos roofs nearby as easy targets instead.

 Scientists found that the risk of infection from the night-biting female Anopheles mosquitoes seems higher among people who work when compared to those who stay at home.
 
 Chennai is one of Tamil Nadu’s hotspots for malaria. There has been no malarial death in the state in five years. But there has been an 18% increase in malaria cases in the past one year although the number of people tested for it has come down by 6 lakh, according the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme.
  
  
 In 2014, the high number of cases being reported in Besant Nagar drew the attention of a team of scientists from the Chennai-based institute to do a cross sectional survey. For a year from February 2014, the team spoke to people from more than 600 homes. The study was published on January 5 in Malaria Journal. “We wanted to study who were the people and how they were affected. The study may not represent the entire city, but it throws light on the situation because people from all economic groups live in Besant Nagar,” said the study’s corresponding author  
 
 Survey results showed incidence of malaria was the lowest among people living in concrete houses and highest among people living under asbestos roofs or in huts. Also, only 12% people tested positive for malaria from 143 houses breeding mosquitoes at the time of the survey. However, out of the 489 houses without any mosquito breeding, 87.3% people tested positive.
 
 Public health experts said overhead tanks are a fertile breeding ground for mosquitoes. “Tanks are a feature of concrete houses but people living in these houses have mosquito nets and sleep in air-conditioned rooms where mosquitoes can’t enter. For survival, female mosquitoes suck blood from people in nearby thatched huts who sleep in the open,” said director of public health  
 
 The state health department has pushed civic authorities to spread awareness on protection and initiate action against those breeding mosquitoes. “All municipalities get funds to buy repellents. They have been asked to give repellent-embedded nets to vulnerable people,” he said.
 
 While researchers are considering a pan-city survey, activists said the study and growing number of positive cases are an indication that the fight against malaria has reached a critical moment. “There could be a resurgence. We are also getting reports of drug-resistant malaria. If we don’t take adequate measures, we are in for trouble,” said Dr S Elango, president, state wing of Indian Public Health Association.
 
