Chandigarh: Sixteen-year-old Haryana shooter  , who won her second successive gold medal in the   in Mexico on Monday, had to struggle for over two months to get a licence for her .22 bore pistol last year. The teenager from Goriya village in Haryana’s Jhajjar district needed the licence to compete in the   which were scheduled to be held in Sri Lanka in September. The games were ultimately not held as Sri Lanka lost its hosting rights due to political interference of the government in its Olympic committee.

 
 
 Her father  , a marine engineer, said the Haryana bureaucrats took an inordinately long time to clear her request for licence. “We used to travel daily to Jhajjar, which is some 45km from our village, for more than two months to procure the licence for 0.22 bore pistol from the officials last year. They (officials) kept deferring the date and never heard us,” Manu’s father said.
 
 
 
 “The Asian Youth Games were around the corner and we were toiling for a licence for Manu. The police department and city magistrate were cooperative, but the   at the time did not pay any heed to our request,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 
 The deputy commissioner was on leave and in his absence the ADC was delegated the responsibility to grant licences. Subsequently, Manu’s father approached the   and even tweeted the CMO and the state sports minister. After more than two months, their efforts finally bore fruit and the young shooting prodigy managed to get the licence. “It was only after the issue was raised by media that the officials took cognizance of her talent and the file was fast-tracked in the department,” Ramkishan added. “But I saw a change in Manu at the time. She told me that she would win an international medal someday and issue a statement to all those who have turned a blind eye towards her,” he revealed.
 
 Entire Goriya and residents of adjacent villages are celebrating the newfound stardom of the new shooting sensation. “She did not inform me immediately after her win. She just wrote, ‘Papa ho gaya’ on WhatsApp. I knew that she had won another medal and we started celebrating,” said the proud father.
 
 
