Amid uncertainty over the security situation in  , where there has been no let up in Chinese construction activities in disputed waters, India and   Wednesday discussed maritime cooperation and vowed to further expand their defence ties. 

 
 
 
 
 India's growing involvement in building Vietnam's defence capabilities figured prominently in PM Narendra Modi's bilateral meeting with his visiting counterpart Nguyen Xuan Phuc ahead of the India-Asean Commemorative Summit. Hanoi has been urging India to increase its profile in the   region and the 2 countries are looking to further upgrade their defence partnership in the near future. Vietnam sees defence-security cooperation as the most "intensive and effective" pillar of Vietnam's relations with india.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Apart from Phuc, Myanmar’s state counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte also had bilateral meetings with Modi. According to MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar, Modi and Suu Kyi had a productive discussion on intensifying bilateral cooperation, including follow-up on “key decisions” taken during Modi’s visit to Myanmar in September last year. In that context, they discussed India’s development programme for Rakhine state which saw an exodus of Rohingya Muslims after a military crackdown. 
  on Tuesday under an agreement it has reached with Bangladesh.
 
 Both leaders reiterated their shared view that the situation in Rakhine had a developmental as well as a security dimension. India is helping Myanmar bring about overall socio-economic development in the state by undertaking both infrastructure and socio-economic projects.
  
 
 
 
 
 Modi will have bilateral meetings with other   leaders tomorrow before the summit scheduled for the evening. Apart from Indonesian President Jokowi, all other Asean leaders arrived in Delhi Wednesday. Jokowi is scheduled to arrive Thursday and head straight to President's lunch for Asean leaders.
 
 "Long standing traditional & strategic partnership! PM @narendramodi met with Vietnamese PM Nguyen Phúc. Discussed cooperation in trade and investment, defence, maritime & other areas. Agreements were signed in areas of Information & Broadcasting and Space cooperation," tweeted Kumar after the India-Vietnam bilateral.
  
 
 
 
 
 India and Vietnam also signed two MoUs on the sidelines of the summit.
 
 There was one to enhance cooperation between the parties in the field of information and broadcasting based on principles of equality and reciprocity pursuant to their national laws and regulations. Another MoU was for implementation arrangement between ISRO and National Remote Sensing Department of Vietnam for establishment of tracking and data reception station and data proscessing facility in Vietnam under ASEAN India Space Cooperation.
 
 "This would define the framework and conditions of cooperation for establishment of facility to provide Indian remote sensing satellite data over ASEAN region to enable remote sensing applications, which include natural resources management, ocean development and disaster management by ASEAN member states," said an official.
 
 India and Philippines too signed an MoU which aims to facilitate direct investment between the two countries by providing practical investment information to enterprises. It is expected to support the companies pursuing those opportunities to contribute positively towards economic growth.
 
