BENGALURU: Heavy showers on Tuesday afternoon left several areas in north and west Bengaluru in darkness for 24 hours.

 Residents of Sanjaynagar, Mathikere and Basaveshwaranagar have been struggling since 1.30pm Tuesday when power first went off. 
 
 “There is no electricity for over 24 hours now.   said power would be restored but they kept extending the deadline, and it still hasn’t come back. I am finding it difficult to meet my work deadlines without internet connectivity. The food in my fridge is rotting. I grew up in Rajasthan in the 1990s, and the situation here in 2018 is worse than that,” said Deepak Krishna, who lives in Nagashettyhalli, Sanjaynagar.
 
 While responding to complaints on social media, Bescom maintained the outage has been caused by damaged electric poles and fallen trees during the rain.
 
 Muthu Kumaran, a resident of 8th Main, Mathikere Extension, said he shifted out of his house temporarily. “I tried my best to stay at home, but I have to look after a patient who needs oxygen and a child, and so I was forced to leave. It’s been over 24 hours with no electricity,” he said.
 
 Apart from power cuts, citizens complained of falling trees, electric poles, especially in Sanjaynagar and along West of Chord Road.
 
 Tweeting to the BBMP and Bescom, Rajajinagar resident Sathish wrote, “After the heavy wind yesterday, a lot of trees were uprooted in Rajajinagar. There is a 50-year-old tree near my house in 2nd Block. If it is uprooted or its branches fall, our house will be severely damaged. Request to cut the branches. Please guide and help.”
 
 Power supply restored in most areas: Bescom
 
 “Severe gusts of wind during the thundershowers across the city caused the trees to fall and damaged electric poles and wires, causing power cuts in several areas. Particularly in the west and north circles, 111 poles were broken and 98 trees were uprooted. Out of these 111, we have replaced 86 poles on war footing, while the work of replacing 25 poles is still underway. In most of the areas power supply has been restored,” said Bescom in a statement.
 
