NAGPUR: Bramhanaad, this time, coincided with  , and the musician of the month did leave the audience with a sweet taste. On Sunday, violinist Indradeep Ghosh from Kolkata showcased his prowess of sticking to traditional notes yet did not hesitate in experimenting at the South Central Zone Cultural Centre, Civil Lines. 

 The performance took place at the village-themed stage created as part of the ongoing Orange Craft Mela. The backdrop of trees and a hamlet added an aesthetic appeal to the concert. 
 
 Ghosh selected Ahiri, a raga that is played in the first part of night, and rarely chosen by performing artists. He was accompanied by noted tabla player Gauri Shankar  .
 
 He played the raga first in ‘chaar taal’ 11 beats and then ‘teen taal’ 16 beats. Aalap, jod, jhala and gat were played with immense ease and smoothness between each transition. 
 
 Ghosh teaches at Karmakar's institute, the Indian School of Percussion in Austin in Texas. He began his music journey at the age of six and belongs to the Maihar gharana, a school of North Indian classical music. 
 
 A violinist of international appeal, Ghosh began learning under  , and went on to acquire knowledge from Pandit VG Jog and Pandit Kumar Bose.
 
 “I try to explore different dimensions on how we can elaborate and change the style of playing. The Indian audience is becoming more aware of this instrument, and the scope is increasing,” said Ghosh who has played the violin at temples in   as part of the Bramhotsavam festival. 
 
 Karmakar and Ghosh proved their chemistry to the audience in the sawaal-jawab session and added to the enthusiasm in the air. Ghosh's exploration of the raga was only half the beauty of the event. 
 
 Ghosh had the audience awe struck when he played two bhajans towards the end of the concert. He manoeuvred his violin to play ' ' and 'Vaishava Janato'. It was a flawless rendition.
 
 OUR TAKE
 
 My father Vishnupant Kaole was also a violinist. Ghosh's style and command over the instrument violin took me to an earlier time
 
 Praveen Kaole | Violinist
 
 Ghosh's collaboration with Karmakar turned out to be a great one. By ending the event with a bhakti song, he has sent a prayer for all musicians
 
 Suresh Khardenavis | Tabla player
 
 I have learnt violin and I was impressed with Ghosh's style life of keeping it traditional yet introducing new inventions through fusion
 
 Rajshree Deo | Banker
 
 
