KOCHI: For DrAnandGokani, the great - great grandson of Mahatma Gandhi, naturopathy has always been something close to his heart. Though, Dr Gokani, a renowned diabetologist based in Mumbai never got a chance to catch a glimpse of his legendary grandfather, he is proud of the fact that he has acquired Gandhi’s passion for nature cure treatments.

 Gokani, an allopathic physician, was in Kochi on Saturday to deliver a lecture on naturopathy from a modern medical perspective at a naturopath conference organized by Nature life International and Gandhi Smarak Prakartik Chikitsa Samithi, New Delhi.
 
 “Naturopathy is all about one word and that is finding the right balance. For me it’s about balancing food habits and thereby keeping my body healthy. Naturopathy is a walking science. If the cancer is in advanced stage or if you are highly diabetic it’s not going to help you but one
 
 can use it to prevent the occurrence of these kind of lifestyle diseases. So, one has to use it in the right context and under the guidance of the right person,” said Dr Gokani. He also shares the same views when it comes to eating habits adopted by his great grandfather and added that since his childhood he used to spend an ample amount of time at Sevagram, a village in Maharashtra where Gandhi’s ashram is located. “From the time I was born, the principles that governed Bapu’s life were familiar to me. First it was his views on eating raw food which had a profound influence on me. I am a vegan like him and also abstains from using milk coffee and tea. Then Gandhi’s experiments with mud therapy as part of nature cure treatments also influenced me. He has showed the world a successful message in this regard too,” said Dr Gokani, son of  , the youngest daughter of  , the third son of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 Gokani said since he was more into dietary experiments in his youth he failed to understand nature cure treatments in all its sense and added that prompted him to choose a profession in allopathy.
 
 “I wanted to be a diabetologist and I was convinced with the fact that allopathy had the best to offer. Since I had not come across significant studies and claims relating to how naturopathy is being used to treat diabetic I chose allopathy,” said Gokani. He also conducts stress management sessions and workshops right from school children to corporate employees.
 
