CHANDIGARH:   Civil Services officer Raman Kumar  , who was former senior assistant to then Punjab food and civil supplies minister   has failed to clear four departmental examinations although all candidates are allowed to consult reference books while answering questions.
 
 Another PCS officer, Dr   too has failed to clear four papers of civil law, revenue law, local government laws, service and financial laws. Since   was a member of the Punjab civil medical service (government doctor) before being selected as a
 
 PCS officer, he has approached the government to revert him to his parent cadre.
 
 Out of 39 PCS officers who had appeared for the departmental examination of assistant commissioners held in Chandigarh from February 19 to 24, only 12 have passed the revenue law paper, considered to be the toughest. This is despite the fact that the PCS officers are allowed to carry reference books inside the examination halls. The result was declared on April 11.
 
 Kochhar’s case is complicated: He had been selected as Punjab Civil Services (executive branch) officer in 2016 without having a graduation degree.
 
 OFFICERS FAIL TEST
 
 
 
 
 His appointment has been challenged before the Punjab and   high court and is pending adjudication. In its October 2, 2017 edition, TOI had reported how the previous SAD-BJP government and the Punjab Public Service Commission had selected Kochhar although he did not have a graduation degree. Kochhar is presently posted as assistant commissioner (general) in   district.
 
 Kochhar was appointed a PCS officer in September 2016 and since then has failed to clear examinations of developmental law, revenue law, industrial and commercial law, local government law, service and financial law. Out of the total eight papers, he has only cleared three papers till date.
 
 As per rules, the PCS officers need to obtain 66.66% marks in revenue and criminal law papers, and 55% marks in civil law, developmental laws, industrial and commercial laws, local government laws and public service laws.
 
 As per the civil services (departmental examination) Punjab Rules, 2014, “All the members of service, shall qualify the examination within a period of one-and-ahalf-years from the date of their appointment to the service. The members of the service shall be given only four chances.”
 
 The examination is held thrice annually — in February, June and October.
 
 Asked the reason for not clearing departmental exams, Kochhar told TOI, “These are tough exams with tight checking. Though we are allowed to carry reference books inside the examination hall, a single paper has 15-20 reference books.”
 
 He claimed that he still has one chance left to clear the exam.
 
 The Punjab Public Service Commission has already told the high court that while provisionally selecting Kochhar as a PCS officer, it had clarified to the state government that he should only be issued an appointment letter after he produces his graduation degree. However, the government appointed Kochhar without checking his graduation degree.
 
 Even legal remembrancer-cum-secretary law   had advised the state government, “This department is of the opinion that Kochhar cannot be appointed in PCS (executive branch) as he does not have a graduation degree from a recognized university, which is a condition precedent for such appointment.” Interestingly, Kochhar had submitted MA (Punjabi) and MBA degrees to the state government.
 
