In the latest   episode, the day began with   discussing about bottle game with  .   was sent to secret room to share the experience of her stay in   house. She said during initial days it was difficult to stay in the house, but now the journey has been memorable.
 
    and   discuss about how Chandan has managed to escape from nomination every week. Chandan to   said he has already won in his life. If he stays for another two weeks he will achieve 100 percent what he has thought. Shruti speaks about Rs 10 lakh she will get once she is out of the house. Riyaz spoke about his financial condition and recalled how he is having financial commitments in his life, but   walked out of the living area, when Riyaz was speaking. Sameer discusses Riyaz’s financial matter with  .
  
  The next leg of luxury budget task was given to unearth hidden coins from the secret room.   says his team members needs 50 minutes to find coins.   and Krishi found three coins out of five in different corners of the house. Anupama team members were given the task of finding coins. Niveditha manages to find the first coin in her jeans pant. Sameer team won in coin finding the task. Riyaz reveals about the real reason he came to the show with Sameer. He wants to win 50 lakh to build a house. He considered himself as a serious contender to win the show. Sameer disagrees with views of Riyaz regarding his dream to construct home. The sixth activity of luxury budget task was eating competition. The contestant who eats most idlis within time will win the task. Niveditha and Shruti were selected to eat idlis. Since Shruti ate idlis in 26 minutes she won the task.   apologized to Niveditha for giving eating task to her.
  
  Bigg Boss gave the opportunity to each contestant to name contestants who gave happiness and disappointment with their eviction. Sameer said it is good   got evicted considering her father’s health condition;   should have remained in the house. Niveditha said   should have stayed in the house because of her close nature,   deserved to be get evicted. Shruti said   eviction was a personal loss to her, Megha got eliminated for right reasons. Anupama said   should have stayed in the house,   elimination was right because he had health complications. J Karthik said Jagan should have stayed in the house, Jayasrinivasan is better to stay outside the house owing to his lose talks. Krishi said megha elimination was right, Jagan should have been in the top five. Riyaz said Jayasrinivasan eviction hurt him a lot, Chandan Shetty said   elimination hurt him the most, Dayal’s elimination gave him the relief.
