TRICHY: As the world observes World Autism Awareness Day on Monday, doctors felt that the awareness about autism had grown by leaps and bounds in Trichy. The growing number of special schools in the city was an indication of this, they said. 

 “There are a lot of special schools in the city which is a major indication of how aware people are about autism in the district,” the doctor told TOI and added that many parents were now able to identify the characteristics of the developmental disorder among children and were bringing them to the centre at an early age. “Autism can be detected in a child as early as from three to six months. Early intervention is absolutely crucial for effective prognosis,” he said. 
 
 If children with autism were given proper treatment and education from the age of two to four, they could be safe, claimed the director of  : Transitional Centre & School for Children with Autism,  . “Many parents who have children with autism wish to admit their son or daughter in a regular school. They should know that only if the child was given proper treatment from two to four years that he/ she could attend a regular school without much difficulty,” she said. 
 
 Geetha claimed that awareness among people about autism was low in the rural areas. The diagnosis and treatment of the neurological condition had improved in the country after the checklist and screening tools suited to the Indian scenario like Indian Scale for Assessment of Autism ( ) were developed. Pravaag was conducting autism awareness at   at 6 pm on April 2. 
 
 On the other hand, educator at Intact Special School,  , said that those with autism should be trained for employability based on what they kept doing repeatedly. Giving an example, she said, “In our school, we have a girl who has autism and is very sensitive. We didn’t know what she liked, but once she was made to do a greeting card she kept doing it repeatedly. We channelised her in that particular stream and she crafts two greeting cards per day now.”   said that technology-related jobs – like software and hardware fields – and creativity-based jobs like singing, playing musical instruments and painting were suited for those with autism.
 
 
