AHMEDABAD: Can the   solemnized to a knife/dagger of the groom in his absence be considered valid to deny the   of the woman? While deciding a case of maintenance, the   said that the second marriage of such a woman cannot be held invalid merely because the woman’s first marriage was with the groom’s knife (khandu). Moreover, the woman had never been to her first matrimonial home so there was no question of consummation of the marriage.

 The court asked the second husband to continue paying the maintenance amount to the woman, who was deserted by him after a marriage of five years; two children had been born to the couple. The high court said that a man cannot evade his responsibility after living with his wife for five years by levelling allegations without evidence.
 
 The litigants were from Rajkot district. The woman belongs to the Rajput community, and she was married to a man while he was away. She later fell in love with another man and eloped with him. After marriage, they started living together in Rajkot. They had two sons. Their coexistence lasted for five years. After separation, the woman sought maintenance and the family court asked the man to pay Rs 3,000 every month to his estranged wife.
 
 The man moved the high court opposing the order for maintenance on various grounds. One of them was that the woman had been previously married and she had hidden the fact from him. He said she had not obtained divorce from her first husband. Hence, his marriage should be considered illegal. The woman admitted having married according to the community’s tradition before marrying the second husband, but said that the marriage was only with his dagger.
 
 Justice S G Shah pulled up the man for raising such an issue without proper evidence and for his efforts to hide material from the high court in order to prove his point. The court also rapped its registry for permitting the man to file a petition with partial evidence, said the woman’s advocate, Abhisst Thaker. The court also said that Rs 3,000 is not a big amount these days.
 
 
