NEW DELHI Childless after 10 years of marriage, this   hatched a plot to kidnap the newborn baby of a relative: the idea was conceived even before he was born and executed 12 days into his birth. The accused, who have been arrested by the police, prepared an elaborate plan when a relative broke the news that his wife was pregnant. After a few days, the couple announced that they, too, were expecting a child. 

 The infant’s sister-in-law was a part of the conspiracy, police said. It was she who drugged the unsuspecting couple and whisked the baby out of the room when they were sleeping. The accused then took him to their own house in Sahibabad. Later, they hid the infant away at another location. After some time, the accused intended to tell everyone that they, too, had been blessed with a child. The arrested man works with a cloth manufacturing company in Gandhinagar in east Delhi.
 
 DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said the baby was reported missing by his father on December 12 from H-2 block of Jahangirpuri in northwest Delhi. In his complaint, the couple said that they had gone to sleep at their second-floor residence on the night of December 11. When they woke up the next morning, the baby was nowhere to be found. Multiple teams, led by additional DCP (northwest) A K Lall, were deployed to find him. The room where the family was sleeping was examined by forensic experts and dog squads.
 
 Initial probe led the police to believe that someone known to the family was behind the disappearance. 
 
 Subsequently, the police prepared a list of relatives — distant and close — and started questioning them. A thorough investigation led the sleuths to Sahibabad from where the couple were nabbed. They confessed to their crime on sustained questioning. The baby was located at Saeed Nagar in   and reunited with his parents.
 
 The couple told police that they were tired of taunts by relatives over not having a child. They persuaded their relative’s sister-in-law to join the conspiracy. 
 
 
