Nagpur: Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe has alleged that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is doing   of flats on super built-up area, and not carpet area, causing a huge burden on taxpayers. He also claimed that the new property tax system was against norms.

 At the general body meeting held on Saturday, Gudadhe said one of the major reasons behind the steep hike in property tax was due to the wrong assessment.
 
 “Cybertech Systems and Software (contractor) was to take the actual measurement of individual houses and flats for assessment of property tax under the ongoing revaluation drive. But the company staffers are asking for copies of sale deed and taking base of super built up area. The actual measurement means carpet area that comes to 50% of super built up area,” he said. 
 
 Property tax has increased by 2-10 times and even up to 45% in few cases under new system.
 
 Gudadhe also alleged that staffers of Cybertech were not qualified to bring proper data. “NMC did not stipulate qualification of staffers in work order issued to Cybertech,” he said.
 
 The Congress corporator added that the new tax system — rent chart-ready reckoner value — cannot come into existence as old by-laws are yet to be scrapped. “The state government is yet to give approval for the scrapping of the old laws,” said Gudadhe.
 
 However, assistant commissioner Milind Meshram clarified that the NMC can introduce a new system even if the government has not given approval.
 
 Meanwhile, in a setback to the proposed Sports Authority of India (SAI) Regional Centre and Sports Complex, the general body approved rehabilitation of unauthorized constructions on the land allotted to the centre itself.
 
 During discussion on the proposal to allot NMC-owned land to FDCM for Gorewada International Zoo project, ruling party leader Sandip Joshi linked SAI Centre land issue with it. Later, Joshi at a press conference said unauthorized houses will be rehabilitated in one of the corners of the land. 
 
 “Some houses are situated in one corner and the few in the centre will be shifted to the corner. This will solve issues of unauthorized constructions and pave way for construction of the SAI Centre,” he said.
 
 The NMC had allotted 141.51 acres land to SAI at Wathoda in East Nagpur. Over 200 unauthorized constructions cropped up on civic land.
 
 
