NEW DELHI: In a big   to over  ,000 homebuyers who have   in real estate giant  , the Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the company to frame a   in a week for completion of its housing projects. 

 The top court told homebuyers that it will ensure they get their flats and money refunded only in cases where the project is unviable. Unlike Jaypee and Unitech housing projects where the   is making efforts to ensure homebuyers get their money back, the court noted that most buyers in Amrapali projects are from middle-class families, who invested life-long savings for a home. They must be given possession of their flats, said the bench comprising Justices Arun Mishra and Amitava Roy.
 
 As Amrapali failed to give possession of flats and its sister firm faces insolvency proceedings, the Supreme Court decided to intervene to protect the interests of homebuyers.
 
 The bench said homebuyers need protection as the developer had diverted their money to buy assets, which could be auctioned by the creditor bank to recover its loan, leaving investors vulnerable and without hope of either getting a home or a refund. “People invested savings of their lifetime in buying the flats and their interests cannot be neglected,” the bench said.
 
 The court was hearing a batch of petitions filed by over 100 flat-buyers who had booked homes in Amrapali’s various projects in Noida and Greater Noida, including Amrapali Centurion Park-Low Rise project, Amrapali Centurion Park-Terrace Homes and Amrapali Centurion Park-Tropical Garden. They approached the court after National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) initiated Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process and the tribunal restrained the company from transferring or disposing of its assets on a plea of Bank of Baroda which had given a loan to the company. 
 
 “The Amrapali firms were found in serious breach of their obligation to deliver the flats within 36 months, that is by 2013 and in some cases it is 2016,” advocate M L Lahoty, appearing for one group of homebuyers, said.
 
 Senior advocate Ranjit Kumar, appearing for the company, said structures in most of the projects had been completed and possession will be handed over in a phased manner and completed by 2020.
 
 The bench, after hearing all the sides, said it would examine their plea project-wise as a common order for all buyers would create further confusion and be counter productive. It asked the company to file a plan after consulting with Committee of Creditors and Insolvency Resolution Professional (IRP).
 
