AJMER: Forty-nine-year-old  , who died in   last Friday, was a big support for the family of her son and his three children. She used to make chapattis in ceremonies and weddings. She was the first one to be hit by the blast.

 Though three days have passed since the   occurred, Sheela’s family is still in a state of shock. They find it hard to believe that they lost a family member. “My mother-in-law was a great support as Pankaj, my husband earns very little after demonetisation,” said Preeti, Sheela’s daughter-in-law on Monday. They live in Nand Nagar, Beawar.
 
 Surender Kumar, who lives in Gali Number 3 of Nand Nagar lost his wife and 32-year-old son and 16 other relatives in the accident. “It is a nightmare for us,” said a teary-eyed Surender. His relatives lost 4 children below the ages of 8 years.
 
  “My brother and his wife are in critical condition and teh government should arrange the best of treatment for them,” said Mukesh, another survivor of the blast.
 
 Hemant, in whose pre-wedding ceremony the accident occurred has just come back from Jodhpur after his wedding. He lost his mother Shantidevi in the cylinder blast. Her body was recovered on Sunday. “Life for us means nothing and this wedding will never be celebrated,” wept Hemant.
 
 While family members of the deceased are grieving over their loss, people whose houses were damaged are also struggling for existence. Now, four families are homeless and have no option but to sleep in the open. “My 10-year-old granddaughter has contracted fever as we have been sleeping on the footpath for last three nights,” said Devi, 53 years old neighbour, a resident of Kumawat Bhawan that was destroyed in the blast.
 
 She said that her income was from renting out two rooms of her house and now as the house is destroyed she has lost that income. She said that her two sons work on daily wages and therefore rent income was a boon for them and helped to pay the school fees of her grandchildren.
 
 “My house has developed cracks and therefore it can fall anytime. We are in great danger,” said Manoj Khandelwal of the locality. His house is behind the Kumawat Bhawan that collapsed. Rescue teams are still working.
 
 
