Chandigarh: After facing rejection in the last fiscal year for the grants from the State Higher Education Council (under  ), this year, the Panjab University ( ) is going to send another proposal in the hope to receive Rs 50 crore for the research and innovation of the university.

 Besides this, the university will also send a proposal to receive a   of Rs 7 crore under RUSA for the human resource development centre (HRDC) at the university. This was decided in a meeting of the RUSA, UT Chandigarh, on Monday. The deadline to send the proposal is May 15, 2018.
 
 “Now, we are going to prepare a research proposal to get a grant of Rs 50 crore. We will work on three areas. However, we are yet to decide on the areas. The first meeting on this matter will be held on Wednesday,” said Prof Rajat Sandhir, associate director of the research promotion cell, PU.
 
 For the research proposal, the grants can be utilised to upgrade the infrastructure like labs and equipment for better research output. However, the university’s HRDC is planning to introduce some training programmes. The university authorities hopes to utilise the grant for those reasons too, said sources.
 
 Sources also said it was informed during a meeting of RUSA that colleges and university can apply for funds under RUSA. Last year, PU faced disappointment after the grants of the city colleges were approved by RUSA. 
 
 However, PU had also applied for a grant of Rs 20 crore, which was not approved. It was decided in a Project Approval Board (PAB) meeting of RUSA held in New Delhi on February 6, 2017, the grant of Rs 20 crore which PU had demanded for upgradation of infrastructure won’t be given to the institute. 
 
  Panjab University had also applied for Rs 176 crore of grants for research and innovation, which was also not approved by Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). 
 
 RUSA said PU is neither a state university nor a central university. It also stated that PU is an inter-state body corporate and therefore, the grant was not approved.
 
 
