PANAJI: In veiled criticism of Catholic clergy’s role in the anti-Regional Plan agitation, town and country planning minister   said that the Catholic Church should foster dialogue and discussion with the government so that Goa could be developed sustainably.

 Though   did not directly blame the Catholic Church for supporting the voluntary organizations that are agitating against RP 2021 and Planning and Development Authority zones, he did say that the agitators claimed that they had the support of priests.
 
 “The church should foster dialogue and discussion and chart a direction for Goa to have planned development in the future,” Sardesai said. “They (the agitators) are claiming the support of the church.”
 
 The minister said that instead of objecting and blocking development initiatives, Goans should come out and specify what they wanted.
 
 “I want to give a clear indication that our doors are open for dialogue and discussion,” Sardesai said. 
 
 “But it has to be within the framework of the law. The rule of law is that we have to talk within the framework of certain guidelines. By and large, we have to agree that Goa needs planned development,” the   minister said.
 
 Sardesai went on to say that he did not believe that the Catholic Church was officially supporting the public protest which will be held on April 27 at Lohia Maidan. “Probably one organ of the Church is supporting it. I have high regards for the Church and I expect it to mediate to facilitate dialogue to ensure the planned development of Goa. I feel bad when one of its heavily politicized organs opts for confrontation,” he said.
 
 The Catholic Church’s social wing, the Council for Social Justice and Peace (CSJP), had earlier expressed solidarity with gram sabhas and organizations that are opposing the inclusion of villages in a Planning and Development Authority (PDA) and the formulations of the Outline Development Plans (ODP).
 
 The council has also extended support to protest meetings that were organized to oppose PDAs and ODPs.
 
 
