SHIMLA: Right before the parliamentary elections,   in Himachal Pradesh is heading towards a vertical split with former chief minister Virbhadra Singh and party’s state unit president Sukhvinder Singh Sukhu at daggers drawn. While Virbhadra has demanded changes in the party’s organizational set up and even stated that Congress cannot win an election under Sukhu, the latter hit back by calling the ex-CM a liar. 

 While addressing media persons in Hamirpur on Monday, Virbhadra had said that under Sukhu’s leadership, the party cannot win the coming parliamentary election. He had demanded changes in the party organization and a duly elected new president. This is not the first time that Virbhadra has attacked Sukhu. Even before the assembly election, he had demanded that Sukhu be replaced as Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee ( ) chief. 
 
 
  
 
 Sukhu has downplayed such attacks from Virbhadra earlier, but this time he hit back. On Tuesday, he called “respectable leader” Virbhadra a liar, saying he was a power driven politician who played politics by remaining in power. 
 
 “In 2017, assembly election was fought under Virbhadra Singh’s command as Rahul Gandhi had announced him the chief ministerial face, but even then the party faced defeat. History reveals that when Virbhadra Singh remained chief minister and election was contested under his leadership, the party has faced only defeat,” he said.
 
 The HPPCC president said that despite remaining in power for six terms, Virbhadra could not repeat the government in the state even for once. He said that in 2017 assembly election, 56 tickets were given on the recommendations of Virbhadra, but only 15 won the polls. Meanwhile, out of the 12 candidates selected by the party organization, six won the seats where Congress had faced defeat in the last 30 years. 
 
 Sukhu alleged that due to Virbhadra’s “ego”, cabinet minister Anil Sharma, associate MLA Balbir Verma, former minister Major Vijai Singh Mankotia and former Shimla mayor   had left Congress. He said that in 2014 parliamentary elections, all four candidates were of Virbhadra’s choice, but the party lost all four seats.
 
 
 
