UDAIPUR: Bharatiya Janata Party ( )   from Nathdwara   passed away late Tuesday night after a prolonged illness. He was 58.

 The two-time MLA was battling cancer for past three years. He was admitted to a private hospital in Udaipur after his health deteriorated on Tuesday. He died during treatment.
 
 Chouhan was acknowledged for his political acuity. He was known for having never lost any election he fought in his life and rose to prominence after defeating   senior leader C P Joshi, who was then president of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee, by a single vote in the 2008 assembly elections. Joshi was a front-runner for the chief minister’s post in the 2008 elections but his defeat at the hands of Chouhan led to Ashok Gehlot becoming chief minister for the second time as Congress returned to power. Joshi had challenged the mandate in court but lost the suit. He later contested and won the 2009 Lok Sabha polls and became a union minister.
 
 Chouhan, began his political career in 1988 as a Congressman when he was elected as sarpanch from Kotharia gram panchayat in Rajsamand district. He served as Khamnor Pradhan from 1998 to 2000, Up-Zila Pramukh from 2000 to 2005 from the Congress party.
 
 Chouhan was known for his proximity with Joshi. The two, however, parted ways and Chouhan left Congress to join the BJP. He held prominent positions in the saffron party and was credited for continuous victories the party contestants achieved in several elections at municipal and panchayat levels.
 
 He is survived by wife, four sons and two daughters. His mortal remains were consigned to flames Wednesday afternoon at his ancestral house in Dagwada. Thousands of his supporters, party workers walked in the final procession to the cremation ground where the veteran leader's eldest son Yogendra Singh lit the pyre.
 
 The state assembly was adjourned for the day after paying respects to the legislator. Speaker Kailash Meghwal, chief minister Vasundhara Raje, ministers Rajendra Singh Rathore, Kiran Maheshwari and Shrichand Kriplani later reached Chouhan’s native place to pay their last respects. In her condolence message, Raje said Chouhan was an inseparable part of BJP and his demise was a loss to her and the party. Raje met the aggrieved family members.
 
 With Chouhan’s demise the number of BJP legislators in the house has been reduced to 159.
 
 
