Coronary Heart Disease or CHD as it is most popularly called includes conditions like stroke, peripheral arterial disease, nephropathy, retinopathy and possibly neuropathy and cardiomyopathy as well. Increasing life spans and ageing populations with an increasing prevalence of obesity and sedentary lifestyle is leading to an increased incidence of diabetes. The link between diabetes and CHD is a cause of concern globally and more so in the Indian Asian populations. 

 It has been noticed that even in diabetics with well controlled blood sugar levels, factors like High Blood Pressure, higher cholesterol levels, obesity and lack of exercise increase the risk of CHD. Collectively, these factors make diabetics more prone to CHD.
 
 In a recent study published in Primary Care Diabetes, the authors have looked at a measure called Lifetime Risk (LTR) which indicates the expected incidence of a disease from the present age for diabetics and non-diabetics in reference to CHD. This study looked at the data for 5559 patients recorded for 71,745.4 person-years between 1989-2007.
 
 The results for this urban population were clearly indicative of an increased lifetime risk for diabetics as compared to non-diabetics. This data was recorded with 40 years as the base line age. The competing risk of death adjusted lifetime risk for all coronary heart disease was established. In the male population it was 16.61% without diabetes and 21.06% with diabetes. When the same was done for the female it was 9.18% for women without diabetes and 14.21% for women with diabetes. Hence lifetime risk for male diabetics was higher by 4.45% and for female diabetics was higher by 5.03%. This pattern was followed for all age indexes in both males and females.
 
 This information will be of huge help in the management of diabetes on an ongoing basis for people who do not understand the impact of diabetes on their bodies especially the heart.
 
 To summarise diabetes is the disease affecting blood vessel across the whole body. There is no blood vessel which can escape the deleterious effect of diabetes. To prevent the complications of the disease and stop the determination of the health of blood vessels sustained glycemic control is of prime importance. Life style changes, regular medication along with regular visit to your doctor can go a long way in leading a healthy live.
 
 
 
 1. Turin TC, Okamura T, Rumana N, et al. Primary Care Diabetes, http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pcd.2017.04.007
 
 
 , M.D. (Med.), Consultant Physician & Diabetologist, Director - Vijay Hospital, Hosur.
 E-mail: dr-raajesh@hotmail.com
 
 
 
 
