MUMBAI: In a major relief for students, junior college teachers withdrew their boycott of   after talks with the government on Monday. The teachers were not correcting papers since February 21, when the   began.

 Junior College Teachers’ Federation general secretary Anil Deshmukh said, “Our major demands have been agreed to by the government and hence in the best interest of students, we decided to withdraw our boycott on assessment. We hope the government keeps its word this time. We will complete   as early as possible to ensure the board can declare results on time.”
 
 Among pending demands are splitting science papers into two for   students, making information technology an aided subject to make it affordable and grant for approved teachers’ appointments since 2014. The association claims it has over 72,000 members and it estimates that over 70 lakh papers are lying unchecked at custody centres.
 
 Teacher groups’ representatives met school education minister Vinod Tawde on Monday. “We were in talks with representatives and few demands had been met. On Monday, some more core demands were agreed to. For other pending demands, we will have to consult the finance department and arrive at a decision. Now, teachers must keep the students’ best interests in mind and resume assessment,” said Tawde.
 
 The representatives will once again meet government officials on March 10 for further discussions. “If the government doesn’t fullfil the demands in 10 days, after the meeting, our members will sit on an indefinite strike outside Mantralaya,” said Deshmukh.
 
 Board officials have sent exam papers to custody centres and assessment can begin on Tuesday. “We have sent the papers and we hope teachers will start assessment since few days are lost,” said Maharashtra state board chairperson Shakuntala Kale.
 
 Paper assessment process
 
 * On day of paper, chief moderators meet at board’s headquarters in Pune and discuss assessment and marks distribution
 
 * Next day or day after, chief moderators meet moderators in their region
 
 * Following day, moderators meet with examiners at custody centres and explain how to mark students
 
 * Examiners have around 12 days to correct 150-300 answer sheets
 
 In numbers
 
 HSC students in state | 14.85L
 
 No. of   | Approx 90L (each student takes exams in six subjects)
 
 Subjects offered | 162
 
 Examiners | Approx 65k
 
 
