Rajkot: Kothdi, a nondescript village 7km from Manavadar town of Junagadh, has a population of just around 700. But large number of villagers here consider Israel as their second home. 

 For the past 25 years, at least 70-80 villagers of Kothdi are settled in Israel, doing various kinds of jobs. The shift began in 1990s when Jivabhai Muliyasiya and his younger brother Savdas first decided to test the waters in Israel. The farmer brothers were, in fact, the first among the villagers to go abroad. Both of them are Israeli citizens since 1995.
 
 “I was studying agriculture at a Mangrol college. My professor was extremely influenced by the success of Israeli technology in farming. I had accompanied him once to Israel and rest was my destiny,” said Savdasbhai, who runs a cyber-security and banking technology firm in the capital Tel Aviv. He has 10 employees who are all locals.
 
 Savdasbhai, who started as a caretaker of old people there, is also part of the business delegation of Israel Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on his India visit.
 
 He makes it a point to visit Kothdi as many times as possible in a year. Talking to TOI over phone from Mumbai, Savdasbhai said, “It is very difficult to get the Israeli citizenship. Army training is compulsory for every citizen and I have also undergone the same. I started work as a caretaker of old age people and then set up my own business.” 
 
 He said, “My company provides Israeli technology to some of the Indian banks. We provide cyber security and technical support to banks to protect them from burglary.” 
 
 Gradually, Savdasbhai helped more than 60 villagers to settle in Israel. 
 
 Hardasbhai Vara is one of them, who recently came to India. He has a three-and-a-half-year-old son who was born in Israel during his and his wife Aarti’s eight-year-long stay there. “We were attracted towards Israel because people there are very humble and believe in equality. The salaries too are lucrative.” 
 
 People from this village go to Israel on work visa and start working there as caretakers of old people in a family. 
 
 Close to 2,000 Gujaratis are working as caretakers in Tel Aviv, Jerusalem and Netanya town. “Employers in Israel provide us all facilities like residence, food and medical treatment. Israel gives family visa. So, we can go there with family,” said Hardasbhai.
 
 
