Mumbai: In a first for India,   is offering floating   rates linked to an external benchmark — the 91-day treasury bill. Having an independent benchmark would mean that interest rates will no longer be ‘fixed’ by the bank but would reflect what the   wants it to be. The RBI determines the yield on the 91-day   auction based on demand for the bonds.This newly introduced T-Bill linked home loan is based on the 3-month T-Bill rate published on the 12th of each month by Financial Benchmarks India ( ) — an RBI-recognised independent benchmark administrator. 

 “The Treasury Bill-linked home loan is in line with global best practices, local regulatory expectations on the use of external benchmarks, and also offers a better client experience. It is in line with in line with international markets such as the US, Singapore, Taiwan and Hong Kong,” Shinjini Kumar, country business manager, Global Consumer Banking, Citi India. tnn
 
 Although RBI has been trying to get banks to use an external benchmark, most domestic lenders have opposed the proposal on the grounds that interest rate on loans have to reflect their cost of funds and their cost of funds depend on their deposit rates which are not linked to any external benchmark.
 
 According to Citi’s country treasurer Badrinivas NC, the 90-day T-bill rates are more transparent and more ‘transmittive’ as they ensure that rates are as close to the policy rate as possible. 
 
 Citi currently has a home-loan book of Rs 9,000 crore, which is nearly 16% of its total loan portfolio of Rs 57,000 crore. Given its limited branch presence, the bank has been focusing on metros and has an average loan size of over Rs 1 crore.
 
 Commenting on the recent changes in priority sector lending (PSL) requirements for foreign banks, Kumar said Citi is already compliant on PSL requirements. However, the bank was planning to expand to new markets through partnerships and the use of digital platforms.
 
 The interest rate resets of the T-Bill-linked home loan are on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1, while the spreads will remain constant through out the tenure of the loan.
 
 
