GURUGRAM: It was Luxmi’s addiction to   and   that ultimately led to her murder, claimed her husband Hariom who strangled her in sleep last Thursday.

 During interrogation, Hariom, who was arrested on Friday, told cops that he was fed up with his wife who would spend hours with her mobile phone, chatting with people on social networking sites.
 
 The 35-year-old man claimed that he was upset that she was ignoring him, their children and her duties as mother and wife.
 
 Hariom strangled Luxmi (32) to death while she was sleeping at their Sare Homes flat in Sector 92 late on Thursday night. On Friday morning, when Luxmi’s father   visited their house, he found her lying on a bed with Hariom sitting near the body.
 
 Singh then called police and got him arrested. Hariom, who used to run a computer repair shop in IMT-Manesar, was produced in a city court that sent him to two-day police remand on Friday.
 
 “We got married in 2006 and had two children. All was fine for the first few years and then I got her a Smartphone. In the past two years, the phone gradually changed her, and she started ignoring me and the children. It seemed that the children and I had ceased to exist for her. She would not cook meals or do any household chore; she would not take the kids to school or help them do homework. She spent days and nights on Facebook and WhatsApp,” he claimed.
 
 “I initially ignored all, thinking she would soon get bored with all these but things only got worse. We were fighting every day and the children were also under stress,” he added.
 
 Hariom also said it was because of Luxmi’s addiction to phone and negligence towards the family that he was forced to send his kids — an eight-year-old daughter and a 10-year-old son — to a boarding school in Kurukshetra.
 
 But, Luxmi remained unaffected even by the kids’ absence and started spending more time on her phone instead.
 
  “She would never let me see her social media accounts. I suspected she was having an affair online. We again had a big fight on Thursday night and when we went to sleep, I knew I could not take it anymore,” Hariom told police.
 
 Based on the complaint filed by Luxmi’s father, an FIR was registered against Hariom under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC at Sector 10A police station last week. On Monday, he was produced in court that remanded him in judicial custody.
 
 “The accused claims that his wife was ignoring him and spending too much time on Facebook and WhatsApp, and thus he killed her,” said sub-inspector Dinkar Yadav, the investigating officer.
 
 
