ALAPPUZHA: A seven-year-old student was killed after the wall of a toilet in his school collapsed on him at Choottumali near Thalavady in   on Friday.

 The deceased was identified as Sebastian, son of Benson and Ansamma of Anaparambil South, Thalavady.
 
 Police said the incident occurred when the Class II student of the aided   went to the loo during the morning recess at 11am. The wall collapsed when the boy was entering the toilet, and he suffered head injuries.
 
 “The teachers rushed him to a nearby private hospital, where he was declared brought dead,” K V Ananda Babu, sub-inspector of Edathua police said.
 
 Police have registered a case of unnatural death. “Preliminary investigation points at negligence on the part of the school management. We will register a case against them on Saturday,” the officer said.
 
 The boy’s body was handed over to his parents after legal and medical examinations at Thiruvalla taluk hospital. Besides parents, he is survived by a brother. His funeral will be held at 2pm at Vattadi on Saturday.
 
 Residents, meanwhile, said the toilet was constructed around two years ago. They blamed unscientific construction for the tragedy.
 
 Sebastian’s father Benson, a fisherman, also blamed the school—which has 11 students and three teachers—for the death of his son.
 
 “I take him (Sebastian) to school daily. Last week I told the headmistress that the toilet was untidy and needed cleaning. They did nothing,” he said, adding that he would appeal to the authorities concerned to initiate action against the school.
 
 Assistant education officer Sasikumar G Warrier said the school was issued fitness certificate this academic year by an engineer of the local self-government department. “We are not sure about how old the toilet building is, but it was constructed more than two years ago,” he said.
 
 District collector T V Anupama said a meeting of officials from local bodies and education department would be convened to discuss measures to prevent such incidents in future.
 
 “The district child protection officer, deputy collector and sub-collector visited the school. We will ensure the safety of all the school buildings in the district,” she said.
 
 
