Kolkata:   Motor is hoping its cross-badging agreement with   Motor will give the much-needed thrust to its   initiatives in India and convince the government that hybrid is the most appropriate technology to make the transition to electric vehicles. 

 Toyota and Suzuki have announced a cross-badging agreement under which the Japanese automobile majors will manufacture vehicles for each other in the Indian market. The deal will enable the companies to address certain segments of the market where they have no or insignificant presence in India. It will also increase the capacity utilization in the respective factories and allow joint sourcing for these vehicles, which will allow them to reduce cost. 
 
 Toyota will make cosmetic changes in Suzuki's premium hatchback Baleno and compact SUV Vitara Brezza so that they blend into its portfolio.   will do the same with Toyota's premium sedan Corolla Altis. But more than external looks, it is the underlying potential of a technology evolution in the vehicles that is an exciting prospect. 
 
 Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of the launch of its Yaris sedan positioned between Etios and Corolla Altis, Toyota Kirloskar Motor vice-president (planning & strategy) Atushi Oki said the tieup would also help enhance its hybrid strategy. 
 
 “We firmly believe hybrid cars and public transport are key to cleaning up the foul air. Hybrid is essential to make the transition to electric vehicles. Since the motor, power control unit and battery are common in both kinds of vehicles, it creates the perfect ecosystem for EV. We have been pushing the case. Having India's leading automaker alongside is better. We need more friends to impress upon the government the need to promote hybrid technology for a greener tomorrow,” said Oki.
 
 Toyota has been stung by the government's adverse policy on hybrid with sales of its top-of-the-line luxury sedan Camry plummeting 75% following the 43% punitive tax imposed on hybrid cars. 
 
 Toyota hopes the agreement with Suzuki will help broaden the base for hybrid vehicles and bring in the volumes to justify localization. Toyota has hybrids for hatchbacks — Aqua in Japan and Yaris in Europe — that can be adapted to hatchbacks in the Suzuki lineup. 
 
 
