CHANDIGARH: Railway officials on Monday gave a detailed presentation on the plan for the world-class project of   station, the work of which is slated to commence on August 1, 2018. A budget of Rs 140 crore has already been allocated by the Union railway ministry.

  
  
 Sudip Bandyopadhyay, chairman of the parliament standing committee on railways, while sharing the details during the media briefing, said the officials informed the committee that the tenders for the work has already been floated and will be opened on May 30, 2018. The officials told the committee that the groundwork of the world-class station will be started on August 1, 2018 and it is expected to be completed in two years.
 
 According to the plan proposed by Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation Limited (IRSDC), the station will be developed based on the pattern of an international airport. The station will have two floors with the first floor housing the waiting room for the passengers who will then have to come down to the platform on the ground floor to board the train.
 
 According to the plan, the main building and the circulating area would be converted into a multi-storeyed complex. For instance, on one side of the station, there would be a bank, a food and beverage corner and ticket counters on the ground floor, a food court, cloak rooms and shops on the second and VIP waiting lounge and ladies waiting rooms on the third. Sources said that the emphasis would be to provide all facilities to passengers at the station complex itself. Commuters will not have to hunt for such places around the city.
 
 Facilities like escalators, wide-foot overbrides, mechanised parcel handling, entry and exit points at different grids would also be designed according to international standards. The travellers will have entry and exit points from both the Chandigarh and Panchkula sides. The plan has the provision of the metro and the high-speed trains planned for the future. 
 
 In 2013, former railway minister Pawan Kumar Bansal had made an announcement that Chandigarh would be developed as a world-class station where state-of-the-art facilities would be provided.
 
