Nagpur: Even as Nagpur University vice chancellor   is all set to complete his long list of nominations on various statutory bodies, there are no qualified teachers for many Boards of Studies (BOS). Out of 73 boards, about 10-15 boards don’t have even a single teacher in NU’s over 450 colleges with the requisite qualifications for being nominated.

 “We would have to nominate some members from other universities, or even from outside the state. There is no other way out, since the new Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016 put in stringent conditions for members of boards,” Kane told TOI.
 
 Out of total 2,576 members on various bodies like Management (MC) and   (AC), and Senate, the VC has to nominate over 800, including on   committees (RRCs). He would be nominating 17 members to the Senate, five in   (MC), 438 on Board of Studies (BOS) (six on each of 73 boards of various subjects), 365 on Research Recognition Committees (RRCs, for 73 subjects, and 20 on Academic Council (AC). Additionally, he would be appointing 20 ex officio members on Senate, six on MC (along with three invitees), 85 on AC, and one on 73 BOS, which would have five invitees on each of them.
 
 The BOS would comprise 15 members, of which three would be elected, while five would be co-opted by the VC’s nominees and elected members. It means for BOS, there will be 1,095 members. Similarly, each   would have five members, of which two would be nominated by the VC, which means for 93 subjects, he will nominate 186 members.
 
 As per the new Act, the VC could nominate a full-time teacher having over 10 years experience, and in consultation with the dean of respective faculty. 
 
 Kane had planned to complete the nominations by this week itself, but couldn’t get the time to do so due to a busy schedule. “There is a provision of nominating at least one qualified person on the board, who would then nominate other persons. But on these 10-15 boards, where not a single qualified teacher is available, we would seek the chancellor’s advice on how to fill up the posts. In the past as well, the chancellor had resolved the issue by relaxing conditions when no suitable members were found.”
 
 NU officials said the VC had actually planned to complete the nominations before forthcoming graduates constituency polls on February 4. The objective was to immediately start procedure for Management Council elections and complete it in February itself, so that the full-fledged bodies could work after March 4.
 
 They added that even elections were held for only 31 BOS out of 73, as not a single member applied for 21 boards while in rest 21, less than three members applied.
 
 
