NAGPUR: “Religion is a path that one follows which should be respected by other faiths too. But ‘dharma’ is the element that binds the humanity in entirety which augurs well for building a strong society,” said Mohan  , Sarsanghchalak of  , on Thursday.

 Speaking after releasing ‘Amrutkumbh’, a souvenir brought out by Hindu Dharma-Sanskriti Mandir (HDSM) to mark the conclusion of its platinum jubilee celebrations at Scientific Society Hall, Bhagwat said words ‘dharma’ and ‘sanskriti’ have no alternatives in English that could rightly convey its meaning. Religion has its origin in Latin which means binding. But it is ‘dharma’ that desists people from indulging in wrongdoings, and gives freedom in life.
 
 Though religion is part of ‘dharma’, Bhagwat said, it does not convey the meaning which our ancient scriptures had envisaged. 
 
 Lauding Hindu Dharma-Sanskriti Mandir, the RSS chief said running such an organization for 75 years and imparting knowledge without charging money is unparalleled in history. Now it is the duty of the organization to continue to pass on the high values of ‘dharma’ and ‘sanskriti’ to the generations to come, he added.
 
 In his address, social worker and businessman Arun Lakhani said, “The human beings’ desire to get as many comforts as possible was spelling trouble for the mankind. In an era of technological revolution, conservation of nature has taken a back seat which could have devastating effects. We wish to live long, but we should stay happy so long as we are alive,” he remarked.
 
 Chairman of the Amrut Mahotsav Samiti and RSS ideologue MG   could not attend the function as he was not well. However, in a message that was read out at the function, Vaidya appreciated the organization for continuing its efforts to spread knowledge without charging anything. This is called ‘dharma’ in its true sense, the letter said. 
 
 Various programmes were undertaken during the platinum jubilee year, like book launching and lecture series, besides others. ‘Amrutkumbh’ has been compiled by members of the organization and comprises articles written by eminent personalities on important subjects. Comments from noted thinkers have also been part of the book.
 
 Present on the occasion were Gurunath Bhagwat, president of the organization, and CA   and  , vice-presidents of the jubilee committee.
 
 
