NAGPUR: City NGOs working towards AIDS prevention have said that limited funds from the government has hit their daily functioning. They said the money provided is insufficient to effectively run the organizations.

 The NGOs claimed that they have not received funds for a specific duration from November 2016 to March 2017 and add that none of the officials are looking into the issue. The workers have expressed displeasure over the attitude of the government towards social causes and are worried about their future.
 
 The issue concerns numerous city NGOs having a staff of around 400 contractual workers, who run more than 15 projects for Maharashtra State AIDS Control Society (MSACS). These projects are responsible for HIV awareness and prevention and also works for rehabilitation of HIV+ individuals.
 
 “The received money is enough just for the salaries of the workers. Any other extra activity or campaign is not covered in the funds making it very difficult to operate. The allotted sum does not cover miscellaneous expenses, thereby affecting the working,” said Amruta Joshi, joint secretary of Bhartiya Adim Jati Sevak Sangh.
 
 Anand Chandrani, founder of  , said, “Working without salaries for such a long time was already an issue and the limited amount has added to the woes. We are already working day in and day out to reach the needy and fight against the disease, but such acts demotivates the entire cause of working.”
 
 Rajabhau Jodh, project director of  , said that such fiascos hamper the personal lives of the workers. “A worker also has a family and has to look after his needs. With the salary being received after such a long time and also in such finite amount, the workers feel helpless.”
 
 Hemlata Lonave from Indian   said, “The money received is hardly sufficient for all the requirements of the organization. Moreover, after intimation from the officials to curtail the staff, almost 50% workers were laid off increasing the work significantly.”
 
 MSACS joint director Lokesh Gabhane, said, “We provide them appropriate funds, which are allotted to us by the   (NACO). We try our best to give appropriate money so that it is sufficient for different activities of the NGOs. Though sometimes the funds might not be on par with their expectations, but it is not the case every time.”
 
 Talking about the backlog of salary between November 2016 and March 2017, Gabhane said talks are on with NACO officials and they will try to solve the issues immediately.
 
