to commemorate Army Day and spread the message of patriotism, 25 members of a city bikers group, Wanderers conducted a flag ride carrying the Tricolour to the ancestral villages of two martyrs —   and   — in Siddipet district on Monday.
The 200-km ride from Hyderabad to the district and back was flagged off by Padma Shri Lieutenant General (Retd)   from his Mehdipatnam residence. 
 While Chandra Reddy from Marmuchala village, a Kargil War hero, was shot down from behind by terrorists in Poonch Sector of Jammu & Kashmir on September 18, 2002, Narendra Gopal from Vechareni had died in a landslide in Srinagar district, J&K on October 14, 2010.
 On reaching, the bikers were greeted by the family members and local sarpanchs of both the villages who recounted the tales of valour and heroics of the martyrs. The bikers paid their homage to the bravehearts by garlanding their statues in the presence of the relatives and near and dear ones of the two slain army men in their respective villages. “The locals shared with us how the heroics of the duo inspired many youth in their villages to join the armed forces. They are the role models for many in the villages,” said  , a biker, adding that the ride was an unforgettable and emotional journey soaked in patriotic fervour for him. He also said that Monday being Sankranti, the group was received with warm hospitality and treated to sweets by the locals in both the villages. 
 “I got an opportunity to meet the childhood friends of both Gopal and Chandra. They shared with us the heroics of their best friends who laid down their lives for the nation. I however felt that they will continue to live in the hearts of the people of their ancestral villages for eternity,” recounts  , another biker.
 The Army Day is celebrated on January 15 every year to mark Field Marshal M Cariappa taking over as the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India, on January 15, 1949.
 
