KOLKATA: Most of the 20 tonnes of suspected animal carcass seized from an ice factory in Rajabazar may have been meant for the processed meat industry, the ongoing police probe has revealed. The carcass, after being mixed with fresh meat, would be chemically processed and, besides being sold in Kolkata, would be sent to neighbouring countries like Bangladesh and Nepal and neighbouring states like Bihar, Odisha and Assam as well, officials said on Friday.

 
 The meat would reach several smaller food processing units in Burdwan and West Midnapore before being packaged with fake labels of top brands and sent to foreign shores, officials said after interrogating the arrested. “They told us that they sent this meat to Bihar, Odisha and Assam from where it was collected by traders from neighbouring nations,” a Budge Budge police station officer told TOI.
 
 The revelations came on Friday, when cops arrested a former CPM councillor from Kalyani for being involved in the racket. Manik Mukhopadhyay, a councillor of   for two terms between 1990 and 2000, was picked up from his hideout. Officials said he used to be in charge of the dumpyard in Kalyani.
 
 
 
 
 Despite retiring two years ago, former Gayeshpur Municipality councillor Manik Mukhopadhyay had enough influence to help the racket. At least two others have been detained from Kalyani and Gayeshpur for questioning.
 
 “Mukhopadhyay used to tip off main accused Sunny Malik about carcass being dumped there. The two managers nabbed from the Rajabazar ice factory where this meat was stored, Kai Siang and Mohd Farid, became his close aides,” said an investigating police officer.
 
 South 24-Parganas superintendent of police Koteswar Rao said unravelling the entire modus operandi and the chain might take some time because of the organised nature of the gang. “The carcass would be picked up from several places and brought to Rajabazar. Given the nature of business, we are ascertaining if there were other places where carcass was stored,” he said.
 
 However, the godown owner who looked after the sale of this meat was still absconding, officials said, adding that raids were on in Kolkata’s Tangra, Tollygunge and Salt Lake and Kakinara and   in North 24-Parganas. His arrest, officials said, was vital to establish the entire chain.
 
 Nabanna, realising the spread of this racket, has asked for greater vigil on state and international borders and promised a fair probe.
 
 The accused have been charged under Sections 272, 273 and 308 of IPC and Section 16 of Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, West Bengal; Sections 272 and 273 deal with adulteration of food or drink and Section 308 deals with attempt to commit culpable homicide.
 
 
 
 
 
 
