NEW DELHI: A day after   banned Price Waterhouse (PW) from auditing listed firms for two years, the network of 11 firms, which stand to lose the mandate to audit around 75 listed companies from the next financial year, swung into damage control mode and told its clients that its tax advisory and consulting businesses were not impacted by the regulatory action.

 While making it clear that it will appeal against the Sebi order next week, Price Waterhouse (PW) also comforted around 3,000 auditors, saying that it will take care of their interest and there was no reason to worry. The audit practice has 80-90 partners apart from junior executives.
 
 “The audit work for the current financial year will go on until September-October, but employees have nothing to worry about. Their interests are fully protected and we are hopeful of a positive verdict when we appeal against the Sebi order,” said a senior PW executive.
 
 Late Wednesday evening, Sebi had banned the   from engaging in audit work with any listed company for two years, starting April 2018. The regulator had also asked PW to pay Rs 13.09 crore, along with annual interest at 12% from January 2009.
 
 On Thursday morning, the firm’s chairman   first wrote to clients and other partners joined in. “Sebi has clarified that the order will not impact audit assignments of FY17-18. The order also does not apply to any of our other businesses — be it advisory, tax, risk assurance or audit of unlisted entities.PW audit firms will be appealing this decision and believe that there are strong grounds to get a positive outcome,” Mukherjee wrote.
 
 PW sources said that since the 2009 Satyam scam, where two partners of the firm were found to be involved in wrongdoing, the global audit and advisory giant has tightened its systems and has undergone several peer reviews.
 
 “There is no doubt we could have done better but since that time we have worked really hard on our systems,” said a source, who did not wish to be identified.
 
 Junior minister for corporate affairs P P Chaudhary told a news agency that the government will examine Sebi’s order against Price Waterhouse in the   case. “There are already stringent norms and the only question is about execution,” he said.
 
 
