Trichy: It is that time of the year when Trichiites savour their favourite mangoes but the king of fruits is yet to make a full-fledged landing in the shops. Traders say that the yield has fallen by as much as half and the fruit is likely to arrive only by the first week of May. 

 At Mambalasalai and Gandhi Market, where one usually gets to see huge mounds of mangoes spread out in fruit shops throughout April and May, it has been restricted to a few sightings. In fact, only a handful of temporary mango stalls have been set up this year in these areas. Drought is cited as the main reason for the late arrival much to the dismay of farmers, traders, vendors and customers. 
 
 Insufficient rains last year in the state – especially in Trichy – meant that the flowering of mangoes, which started around November - December, was delayed, causing a cascading effect on fruit bearing, development, maturation and harvest. 
 
 “Usually, mango varieties like Banganapalle and Imampasanth are available in the first week of April itself, but drought has lent a body blow to our plans. The fruit arrival has been delayed and the number also has reduced significantly this year,” said M Abdullah, a mango grower of Manapparai. Many farmers said that they got a yield of only 50-60% compared to the previous year. This has also had a bearing on the pricing of mangoes which has been erratic – the cost of a kilogram of the fruit varies significantly from one shop to another. “Due to decreased supply, we had no other option but to increase the price of each variety by around 30%,” said the proprietor of a fruit shop at Mambalasalai.
 
 On the other hand, the head of Ilangu Mangai Traders Association in Trichy, K T Thangaraj, claimed that the price of the fruit would come down by next month when the supply from other regions would increase. “From mid-May, we can expect the price to fall and it will not be much higher compared to the previous year,” he told TOI. Deputy director of Trichy district horticulture department, R Krishnamoorthy, said that it would take at least till May 15 for mango supply to pick up. “It is true that the full-fledged mango sales have been delayed. So far, the yield has been good only for one or two varieties,” he said. 
 
 —————————-
 
 Many rue dip in quality 
 
 Trichy: Though the craze for mangoes remains unchanged for many in the city, a majority of them no longer buy the fruit in large quantities like they used to thanks to its declining quality and taste. Even mango cultivators said that the quality had dipped to a considerable extent, especially in the past five years.
 
 Experts say that rampant use of pesticides and deployment of artificial ripening processes have caused the decline in taste. Valsamma, a resident of K K Nagar who grows mango trees on her house premises, said that there was a significant difference in the taste of the yield from her trees compared to what she got at shops. “Ours is much tastier and the quality is also good. It’s mainly because in shops we mostly get artificially ripened mangoes,” she said.
 
 Many other mango lovers also expressed the same view saying that they eat only mangoes they get from their friends’ gardens. “We no longer trust the mangoes that we get in the shops. It is not only because of the taste, but also due to health reasons,” said an IT employee, S Jayakumar.
 
 A mango grower in Trichy claimed that many farmers still used pesticides and chemicals heavily. “It’s mostly because they are ignorant of the right cultivation practices. Most of them do not know that they could resort to more healthy practices like using bio-fertilizers,” he said. 
 
 ——————————
 
 Top five 
 
 Mango Average pricing this year 
 
 Imampasanth Rs 110/ per kg 
 
 Khadar Rs 60/ per kg
 
 Malgova Rs 60/ per kg
 
 Banganapalle Rs 60/ per kg 
 
 Senthoora Rs 30/ per kg
 
 Where from 
 
 Thuvarankurichi | Natham | Namakkal | Salem | Musiri | Melur (Trichy) | Kulithalai | Kottampatti
 
 The usual starting time of full-fledged mango sales -- April first week 
 
 Expected date of beginning of full-fledged mango sales -- May 15
 
 
