MANGALURU: Former mayor  , who quit the Congress, filed   as a JD(S) candidate from Mangaluru, the constituency represented by minister  .

 Ashraf, once a best friend of Khader, will fight against the minister. Before filing the nomination, JD(S) workers in   pooled in Rs 10,000 to pay   for Ashraf. In fact, it was a tit-for-tat intended to Khader, who on an earlier occasion had ridiculed that “let Ashraf contest against me. My party workers will help Ashraf pay the security deposit, if required”.
 
 
  
  
 
 Ashraf told mediapersons that he has chosen Mangaluru constituency because the minister has posed a challenge to contest against him. “I was planning to contest from Mangaluru City South. But as the minister had posed a challenge, I’m contesting from Mangaluru. Moreover, the minister has said that his party workers will pay the security deposit for me. However, my party workers and supporters pooled in the money required to pay the deposit today, and this is a fitting reply to the minister. People of Mangaluru want change. Moreover, the political scenario too is favourable,” Ashraf said, thanking JD(S) supremo H D Deve Gowda, party president H D Kumaraswamy and other leaders. 
 
 34 more nominations on final day
 
 As many as 34 candidates from eight assembly constituencies of Dakshina Kannada district filed nominations on Tuesday, the last day to do so. The district has received a total of 98 nominations, including multiple nominations, from Belthangady, Moodbidri, Mangaluru City North, Mangaluru City South, Mangaluru, Bantwal, Puttur and Sullia constituencies. April 27 is the last day to withdraw the nominations for candidates. Scrutiny of nominations will be held on April 25.
 
 Candidates in Belthangady: K Vasantha Bangera (Congress), Sumathi S Hegde (JD-S), Harish Poonja (BJP) and Venkatesh Bende (Independent)
 
 Moodbidri: K Abhayachandra Jain (Congress), Umanath A Kotian (BJP), Jeevan Kumar Shetty (JD-S), K Yadava Shetty (CPM), Bahubali Prasad (BJP), Ashwin Jossy Periera (JD-S), Reena Pinto (Independent) and Abdul Rahiman (MEP)
 
 Mangaluru City North: Maxim Pinto (Independent), B A Mohiuddin Bava (Congress), Dr Y Bharath Shetty (BJP), D P Hammabba (JD-S), Muneer Katipalla (CPM), G Pooja Pai (BJP), Suresh B Salian (Independent), P M Ahammed (MEP) and Supreeth Kumar Poojary (Lok Awaz Dal)
 
 Mangaluru City South: Dharmendra (Akhila Bharat Hindu Mahasabha), J R Lobo (Congress), Sunil Kumar Bajal (CPM), D Vedavyas Kamath (BJP), Maxim Pinto, Reena Pinto, M C Madan, R Srikar Prabhu, Patrick Lobo, Muhammed Khalid, Muhammed Iqbal (Independent), Supreeth Kumar Poojary (Hindustan Janata Party), Ratnakar Suvarna (JD-S) and Ravishankar Mijar (BJP)
 
 Mangaluru: Nithin Kuthar (CPM), Santhosh Kumar Rai (BJP), U T Khader (Congress), K Ashraf (JD-S) and Usman (MEP)
 
 Bantwal: U Rajesh Naik (BJP), Mohammed Riyaz (SDPI), Abdul Majeed (SDPI), B Ramanath Rai (Congress), Ibrahim (JD-S), Balakrishna Poojary (JD-U), Shameer (MEP), Balakrishna Poojary (Lok Awaz Dal), Thungappa Bangera (BJP) and Ibrahim (Independent).
 
 Puttur: Shakunthala T Shetty (Congress), Sanjeeva Matandooru (BJP), Shekhara B (Praja Parivarthana Party), Gopalakrishna Herale (BJP), M Sheshappa Rao (Samanya Janata Paksha), I C Kailas (JD-S), Mohammed Ashraf Kallega (JD-S), Shabana S Sheikh (MEP), Majeed (JD-U), Abdul Basheer Madiyar, B S Chethan Kumar, Vidyashree and B K Amarnatha (Independent) 
 
 Sullia: S Angara (BJP), Dr B Raghu (Congress), Raghu (BSP), Chandrashekhara, Ramesha K, Sanjeeva Baburao Kurandwad and Sundara K (Independent).
 
 
