MYSURU: After having served the JD(S) in various capacities, 45-year-old  , who rose from the ranks to become the party’s Mysuru city unit president, severed ties after he was passed over for the ticket for the Chamaraja (CR) assembly constituency in favour of former University of Mysore (UoM) vice-chancellor Prof.  . Harish, however, is fighting the polls as an Independent candidate this time round, and is hopeful of victory.

 
  
 
 Harish had been in contention for the ticket five years ago as well, but the party leadership opted for another Vokkaliga leader HS Shankarlingegowda, who had quit the   and joined the JD(S). Apart from Rangappa, who is a relative of former Prime Minister and JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda, the other challengers that Harish is up against are former Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda) chairman L Nagendra from the BJP, and incumbent MLA Vasu, of the Congress.
 
 In an interview with The Times of India, Harish opened up about the conflict within the JD(S) that ultimately forced him to leave the party after a 12-year-long association, and outlined his vision for CR constituency. Excerpts:
 
 
 
 Even in 2013, I was an aspirant for the JD(S) ticket for CR constituency, and was confident of winning the election, but the party gave the ticket to Shankarlingegowda. This time, I was hoping the party would select me, but the ticket was given to Rangappa. This is because of Krishnaraja Nagar MLA Sa Ra Mahesh. He does not want other Vokkaliga leaders to rise in Mysuru district, and wants to be the only tall leader from the community in this region. He conspired against me, and ensured I did not get the ticket. He has also troubled Chamundeshwari MLA GT Deve Gowda.
 
 
 
 
 The constituency has not witnessed any development for many years now. I want to set up public service centres in each ward of the constituency, drinking water units, establish public libraries, toilets, parks and playgrounds, besides taking up development of underground drains and roads. I want to take up installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras to prevent illegal activities.
 
 
 
 
 JD(S) believes it can win votes by spending money, which will be proven wrong. Rangappa is an outsider, and does not have any support in the segment. There is anti-incumbency against Congress MLA Vasu, who has failed to take up development projects in the region. Even the BJP does not have any support here. I have worked in the constituency for more than a decade, and the people will support me.
 
 
