LUDHIANA: As reported by TOI, the Ludhiana Effluent Treatment Society (LETS) elections scheduled for March 17 will not take place now as on Monday, which was the last day of withdrawing the nominations, a compromise was reached by the warring candidates belonging to rival groups. As a result all six office bearers of the LETS were chosen unanimously.

 Narinder Bhamra, Rajinder Sarhali were   (UCPMA) candidates group while Gurmeet Kular,   are candidates of   and Commercial Organisations (FICO). Rajan Gupta and Chander Parkash are the candidates belonging to Joginder Kumar group.
 
 While president of Fastener Manufacturers Association of India (FMAI) Narinder Bhamra has been chosen chief officer (CEO) of the association, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial organisations (FICO) Gurmeet Kular has got the post of secretary. Rajan Gupta, Chander Parkash Sabharwal, Rajinder Sarhali and Manjinder Sachdeva have been chosen as the four directors. However, the office of the general manager of the   (DIC), which is the nodal agency for conducting LETS elections, is yet to declare the names of the office bearers officially as they will have to follow the proper procedure as per election schedule.
 
 Monday’s breakthrough is the result of a marathon meeting between representatives of both UCPMA and FICO that had fielded their candidates in the election arena for control of LETS. Previous attempts to hold elections in November last year had been foiled after some businessmen, who had alleged that the election process was not being conducted in a fair manner by DIC. Acting upon the complaint, the director of industries and commerce, who is also LETS chairman, had cancelled the elections.
 
 Speaking to TOI after being elected as the new CEO, Bhamra said, “I am thankful to all business associations and our senior leaders for supporting me and showing their trust in me. It is nothing less than a great victory for all of us, who were in the election arena, that a unanimous decision has been taken that is acceptable to everyone. I think today’s development will script a new chapter for LETS and our new team, which is full of youngsters, will not leave any stone unturned to take the association to new heights”
 
 According to LETS chairman KK Seth, who played a pivotal role in the compromise, “This is a great achievement for us as we were working with the aim of striking unity among all associations from last few days and finally our hard work has borne fruit today and we have been able to reach consensus. What is the need of wasting time and money in elections when a decision can be made unanimously by all stakeholders sitting in a room and choosing the capable people” The association, which manages the biggest and only industrial use effluent treatment plant based in Ludhiana has more than 1,500 members, from Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar and Mohali and Patiala.
 
