KOLKATA: A Kalighat resident —   (40) — was on Friday convicted by the   for raping an Irish national almost five years ago. The sentencing is likely to be announced on Saturday. The accused befriended the woman, then 21, at a bar, drugged her and later raped her at his south Kolkata residence. It also became one of the first cases where the victim, a  , Skyped her testimony from foreign shores.

 
 The woman had even travelled to the Indian Embassy in Ireland to record her statement instead of her residence. This was done after objection from defence lawyers who demanded that she recorded her version of events from an “official address”. While Kalighat police had initiated the probe, detective department completed the probe and submitted the chargesheet. Defence lawyers had even tried to stall the recording of her statement by moving the Supreme Court.
 
  
  
 
 Video-conferencing was earlier used in the Khadims owner abduction case too.
 
 Lawyers described the conviction as a landmark judgement. “It can probably open a new path for foreigners to seek justice without taking the trouble of travelling. The deposition was even more unique since the woman was asked to depose from the office of the Indian Embassy in Ireland,” said a public prosecutor. The defence counsel had earlier raised objections to the woman deposing from her residence but their objection was dismissed.
 
 The trial, strictly held incamera and made out of bounds for journalists, took about two years to reach the conviction. The woman was allegedly raped by the accused after being drugged at the latter’s S P Mukherjee Road residence on May 31, 2013.
 
 According to police, this was the first rape of a foreigner in Kolkata since a Japanese woman accused a man posing as a city guide of raping her at gunpoint at a Sudder Street hotel in 2004. Lalbazar is now hopeful of pushing for a similar trial for the Japanese scholar who was allegedly gang-raped by Kolkata-based tour guides in Digha and   in 2015.
 
