MUMBAI: A senior citizen was found murdered at her Goregaon home on Wednesday evening. The police are probing if anyone holding a grudge against her son could be involved in the crime.  , a 75-year-old widow, lived with her son,  , at Gaondevi   society. Her son was estranged from his wife and two kids after having come out as a transgender. The murderer ransacked the house but left most of Niruben’s jewellery intact on her person, leading the police to suspect that the robbery was staged.

 Balraj, who works in Churchgate, discovered Niruben’s body. He used to leave home for work around 8.30 am and returned around 6.30 pm. When he returned home, he was surprised to find the door to his house locked from outside. On opening it, he found belongings strewn around and could not find his mother. On reaching the bathroom, he found her in a pool of blood with the throat slit. The killer had left the water tap open, possibly to drown out her screams.
 
 “Balraj started screaming and neighbours rushed out of their homes. It was a horrific sight,” said a resident, adding that   had lived in the area for more than 40 years. Her married daughter lives in another wing of the building.
 
 “We are questioning Balraj. We have learnt that he brought visitors home which did not go down well with his mother. We are probing if anyone who had a dispute with Balraj is involved,” said a police official. “We are not completely disregarding the robbery angle yet.”
 
 The SRA building neither has a security guard nor CCTVs. “Niruben’s gold chain was missing but her gold bangles and earrings were intact. A post-mortem examination showed that the murder took place around afternoon,” said the official. Neighbours said they were asleep then and didn’t see visitors at Niruben’s house.
 
 On Wednesday night, forensic mobile vans combed the crime scene to gather evidence. “Niruben may have been in the bathroom when the killer attacked her. There’s a possibility the door was ajar, as is seen in many SRA buildings, which would have given the killer easy entry,” said an investigator.
 
 Residents said they were in shock on learning of Niruben’s death. “She was fit and active even in her seventies. She would cook and clean the house and do all chores every day. The house was in her name,” a resident said.
 
