AHMEDABAD: A 55-second video from an under-construction residential building was their only lead but it allowed investigators to crack the case involving the rape and murder of an 11-year-old girl in Surat.

 The place where her body was dumped on the Jiav-Budia Road on the night April 5 is a secluded spot. Bella Residency, an under-construction building about 1.5km from there was the closest place with a surveillance camera installed.
 
 
 Rajdeepsinh Jhala, additional DCP, crime branch told TOI that on scanning the footage, they saw the bright light of a black car stopping at that particular spot for 55 seconds. The car was again seen on CCTV footage from a caterer’s shop nearby and there was a particular spot further on from where it did not pass, meaning it instead turned on to another road. “From this, we concluded that the car was from that area itself. However, we knew neither the make not the registration number,” said Jhala.
 
 Investigators led by police sub-inspector A P Chaudhary then searched for black hatchback cars with silver carriers. “We zeroed in on three cars and found one to be suspicious. We met its owner, who told he had given the car to a company in exchange. The company said they had given it to an agent to sell. The agent finally gave us an address that turned out to be Harisinh Gurjar’s,” the official said.
 
 When Harisinh was questioned, he admitted that the car (GJ-5-CL-8582) was bought in his name by his two supervisors, Naresh Gurjar
 
 and his brother Amarsinh.
 
 Harisinh, his brother Harsayai and the two supervisors Naresh and Amarsinh lived at the former’s threestorey house in Pandesara. On questioning, Naresh said that Harsayai had taken the car on the night of April 5 night.
 
 The suspicion on these four persons started getting stronger after the car was seized. Police found 11 echallans for traffic violations issued for this car, of which five were unpaid, and pertained to the period in which the crime was committed.
 
 Naresh then admitted that Harsayai had told him about the girl’s murder and threatened him not to open his mouth.
 
 “Immediately, teams were sent to   from where Harsayai was picked up with help from local police,” said Jhala.
 
 
 
 
 Preliminary questioning of the prime accused Harsayai Gurjar revealed him to be a sex maniac. A father of two, Gurjar was intimidating even for the women of his own family and his relatives. “His wife was also fed up of his behavior,” said a senior crime branch official.
 
 
 
 
 Minister of state for home, Pradipsinh Jadeja, on Friday announced that a fast-track court would be set up to expedite the trial in this case, which has shaken society. A special public prosecutor will also be appointed to ensure that justice is done.   also said the Gujarat director general of police (DGP) will personally monitor cases in which unidentified bodies have been found but have not been detected.
 
 
 
 
 Investigators concluded that the body of a woman dumped found at the spot where the girl’s body was found, was that of her mother, who was allegedly also strangled by Harsayai Gurjar. The body was badly decomposed as it was found nearly 20 days after she was killed and dumped by him. However, when shown her sari, his brother Harisinh identified the dress and said that she used to wear such particular type of clothes. Deepan Bhadran, deputy commissioner of police, said, “The mother-daughter duo came from Rajasthan and we don’t rule out the possibility of others being involved in the murder of the woman.”
 
 
 
 
 Harsayai Gurjar had told his friend that he had met the girl and her widowed mother on a train while returning from Gangapur to Surat in March. However, his brother Harisinh told police that Harsayai had bought them from a man in Gangapur by paying Rs 35,000.
 
 
