Winston Churchill once said a kite flies against the wind, not with it. Since her childhood,   has embodied that spirit as she’s been the kite that has been flying against the tirades of religious fundamentalists. Defying every opposition that came her way for being a  , she has been bravely forging ahead. The 12-year-old-girl, who was in the news years ago for not being able to cremate her mother in the mosque for being a dancer, is now a 23-year-old PhD scholar in   in Kalamandalam.

 “Doing research in dance wasn’t initially my aim. Even now, I see it primarily as a means to give back something to the artform I love. The obstacles on my path are what made me resolutely decide that dance will be my life forever,” Mansiya says.
 
 It’s her mom Amina, who saw a dance programme on TV while Mansiya and her sister were very young, who sowed the seeds for the art in them. “She liked it and wished that we too try a hand at it. She took us to Sarojini teacher in Manjeri. My dad, who has a background in theatre, was abroad at that time but supported us,” she says.
 
 Mansiya and her elder sister Rubiya, thus, started training in dance. She was a consistent A grade winner in Bharatanatyam, Kuchipudi and Keralanatanam in the State School Youth Festival, right from Class 8 to 12. “I was never in it for the competition, but for the opportunity the fest gave us to perform,” Mansiya recalls. She has also been a Kathakali artiste for the past 11 years, apart from being a solo drama artiste who has performed in more than 100 stages on themes of women empowerment.
 
 The love for dance posed many hurdles for the sisters. “My mom fell ill when I was a school kid. I remember someone telling us that if we take a letter from mahal (mosque) to certain philanthropists abroad, they can help us. However, the mahal officials were of the view that my dad leads a wayward life, with an interest in theatre and sending his daughters to ‘dance to the songs of Hindu Gods’,” she says.
 
 When a journalist approached Rubiya at a youth festival venue spotting a dancer in a thattam and asked her about how supportive the community is, she revealed the stand of the mahal. “My mom was a fighter. She used to go to the mahal asking for help for treatment and they would always say, ‘Ask your girls to stop dancing and contradict your earlier statements, if you want help’. She would say a firm no to it.” When she died, her body wasn’t allowed to be cremated in the mosque’s tomb, citing this reason.
 
 But, Rubiya and Mansiya didn’t give up. Mansiya was the Kalathilakam of Calicut University all the three years of her graduation at NSS College. She also earned first rank in MA Bharatanatyam from Madras University.
 
 “Until I finished graduation, I looked at dance as something I might try to manage along with pursuing another career. However, as the oppositions got stronger and her fight intensified, she decided, “I don’t want all of these fights to be for nothing. I want to continue as a dancer.”
 Alongside staging her performance, Mansiya also speaks about her experiences so far on all her stages. “I am past that stage of fear and want to inspire more girls from my background to pursue their passion. This is what urges me to speak,” she says. Meanwhile, Rubiya has also earned a job as a Bharatanatyam lecturer in Lucknow University.
 
 Mansiya dreams of becoming a performer, who also finds time to teach students who are not from financially well-off backgrounds. “While I have been getting stages to perform across the State, I am not called for programmes in Malappuram. But, I want to work based out of Malappuram, in the future, though the people here despise me.”
 
 The research scholar says her dad Alavikutty is her biggest source of strength. “I owe it all to his belief in his daughters and fearlessness to let us pursue what we deem right. And that’s all the wind I want beneath my wings.”
  
 
