INDORE: Madhya Pradesh Congress campaign head Jyotiraditya   on Saturday reacted strongly to   leaders’ jibes over age of the party state chief   and said that the coming elections will give a taste of his abilities to the saffron party. 

 “The BJP probably does not know how much energy Kamal Nath possesses. He is an international-level leader, and the BJP will experience his abilities in the Assembly elections,” he told reporters here.
 
 He was replying to a query on state finance minister Jayant Malaiya calling Nath an elderly and doubting his abilities to take on chief minister   in the coming polls.
 
 Scindia said that Congress will soon come out with its manifesto. “We will bring forth before the public our election agenda in next 2-3 months. Probably, the first list of candidates will be declared in the month of August,” Scindia said.
 
 He believed that the Congress should publish its list of candidates early so that candidates have enough time to campaign, and the youth and women should get a significant number of tickets.
 
 Forty lakh educated youth in the state are unemployed, Scindia claimed, while announcing that the Congress would come out with a separate manifesto for the youth, which will feature a programme for job creation.
 
 Assembly elections are expected to be held in Madhya Pradesh in November this year.
 
 The Congress list of candidates will have proper representation of youth and women, he said adding “I believe that the 30 per cent of the list will have new faces.”
 
 Scindia said a decision on the candidates will be taken by the party. “I believe that winning candidates will be chosen. Indiscipline and anti-party activities will not be tolerated,” he said, replying to a query on the criteria the party will consider selecting the poll candidates.
 
 Scindia denied that Congress was faction-ridden in MP and said leaders have been working over it for the last one and half years. Party workers are getting united in rallies in Bhopal, Indore and Ujjain. “Party workers at the grassroots want to remain united. Then why would the top leaders not be united,” he said.
 
 Scindia later led a public rally in Indore and accused the BJP led government in MP for breeding corruption and dividing the society on basis of caste and religion.
 
 “Ahead of the assembly election, BJP’s chief Amit Shah has roped in six cabinet ministers to lead different areas of Madhya Pradesh dominated by lower-caste,” he said. 
 
 He also mentioned that Shah has announced that his party will fight the elections on the strength of organisation and not by projecting any face. So, the chief minister Chouhan is no longer the BJP's electoral face.
 
 
