AHMEDABAD: This should be an eye-opener for   Four months ago, an   including   showed how   —   and temperature – was responsible for frequent dengue outbreaks in the country. Gujarat was among the five zones studied by scientists along with states like Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Kerala. The scientists were from University of Liverpool, Hyderabad-based Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), and National Institute of Pharmaceutical Education and Research (NIPER) in Guwahati.

 The researchers — Prof Andrew Morse, Cyril Caminade, Srinivasa Rao Mutheneni and S M Upadhyayula — had identified changes in a factor called ‘extrinsic incubation period (EIP)’ of the dengue virus by using daily and monthly mean temperatures. Similarly, this study also further assessed the effect of rainfall on dengue burden.
 
 EIP is the number of days taken for incubation of the dengue virus within the mosquito. During this period, after the mosquito draws a virus-rich-blood meal, the virus escapes the gut, passes through the mosquito’s body and reaches the salivary glands. Once this happens, the mosquito is capable of transmitting the virus to a human host. Lower temperatures — 17°C to 18°C — result in a longer EIP, thereby leading to lower virus transmission. With increasing temperatures, Aedes Aegypti mosquito feeding increases because of enhanced metabolism, leading to shorter EIP days.
 
  
  
 
 For Punjab, the virus development period was predicted to be around 5.6 days (at 35 °C). For Haryana EIP the was 4 days at 39.8 degree C. The semi-arid Rajasthan showed EIP values around 3.6 days at 41.4 °C. Similarly, in Gujarat, the EIP was around 5 days at 36.8°C. The Kerala, showed a narrow range of EIP values, around 8.3 days at 30.8°C. 
 
 Even a 5-day decrease in the incubation period can hike transmission rates by three times, and with an increase in temperature from 17°C to 30°C, dengue transmission increases fourfold. Dr Srinivasa Rao Mutheneni of IICT, who led the study, in a press release said, “The climate-based dengue forecasting model can help   to assess the disease intensity in a geographic region, based on that they can plan disease control operations well in advance.”
 
 
