LUCKNOW:   on Monday decided to tackle the united opposition head-on by fielding three more candidates for  , triggering a direct electoral contest with the SP and Congress-backed BSP nominee for one Upper House seat. 

 As against 10 vacant seats from UP in Rajya Sabha, BJP had initially announced the names of eight candidates, including finance minister  . But the party sprang a surprise on Monday by announcing three more candidates in all and left the joint opposition bewildered. 
 
  
 BJP state president said that the party can't allow the spare votes to go waste. With a total strength of 324 legislators in UP assembly, the BJP and its allies still had 28 spare votes.
 
 After its eight 'official' candidates filed nominations early on Monday, the last day for nominations, the party asked its two state general secretaries Vidya Sagar Sonkar and Salil Vishnoi, and Ghaziabad-based businessman Anil Agarwal to file their papers as well. Sonkar is a former BJP MP, while Vishnoi is a three-time BJP MLA from Aryanagar constituency in Kanpur. Agarwal, too, has been closely associated with BJP.
 
 Cannot allow spare votes to go waste: BJP
 
 The announcement of three additional candidates by the saffron party came amid high drama.
 
 Nearly half an hour after all eight BJP candidates filed their nominations and left, Agarwal, who runs an engineering college in Ghaziabad and a school in Meerut, walked into the Tandon Hall of Vidhan Sabha along with BJP’s Gonda MLA Shailesh Singh and filed his nomination. “I hope to get support of other party legislators,” Agarwal said after completing the formalities.
 
 Minutes later, Vishnoi and Sonkar arrived to file their nomination papers as BJP candidates. Both Vishnoi and Sonkar said that they have been asked by the party leadership to contest for RS.
 
 BJP state president Mahendra Nath Pandey said that the party can’t allow the spare votes to go waste and give opposition a cakewalk.
 
 Deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma went on to compare the joint opposition as animals in the circus. “An elephant (BSP) starts riding a bicycle (SP) out of the fear of ringmaster. That’s exactly what is happening in the opposition,” Sharma said.
 
 Apart from Jaitley, others who filed nominations from BJP were Ashok Bajpai, Vijay Pal Singh Tomar, Sakaldeep Rajbhar, Kanta Kardam, Anil Jain, GVL Narsimha Rao and Harnath Singh Yadav.
 
 The opposition, too, appeared to have sensed BJP move to field extra candidates. Minutes before BJP candidates filed their nomination, SP MLA and leader of the opposition in the assembly, Ram Govind Chaudhary, Congress legislative party leader, Ajay Kumar Lallu and RLD’s lone MLA Sahendra Singh Ramala, submitted a letter of support for BSP nominee Bhim Rao Ambedkar.
 
 Had BJP fielded only eight candidates, an election would not have been required for the tenth seat and the BSP candidate would have easily sailed through even without the support of SP and Congress.
 
 Chaudhary said that all four parties (SP, Congress, BSP and RLD) are secular and have a common programme. “Election of a candidate for RS should be without any opposition. That would have been a healthy tradition,” he said. Lallu said that the opposition parties came together to keep the democratic set up alive.
 
 SP has already nominated Jaya Bachchan as its only candidate for the Upper House, while deciding to come together with Congress to back BSP nominee Ambedkar.
 
 
 
