BENGALURU: Farmers and   are upset with the much-hyped   (UMP), provided by   (ReMS).

 While farmers claim they’re not getting   for their produce, traders are worried over alleged data security.
 
 In the absence of online payment, the ReMS portal is limited to e-auctioning of tenders and their allotment to traders. As was the case earlier, farmers have to wait for at least 45 days to get payment after selling their produce. Traders from across 155 Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) in the state aired their grievances at the recent FKCCI convention in Bengaluru. “Farmers are actually the worst sufferers of the defective system as they end up paying charges for ReMS online, which isn’t helping them in any way,” said Santhosh Langer, secretary, Gulbarga district APMC merchants and traders association. Farmers pay 1.5% APMC cess, of which 0.1% goes towards ReMS charges.
 
 “The government has to either scrap ReMS or upgrade its software to enable online payment so that farmers get their money immediately after selling their produce,” said Sudhir Kumar, Mandya district president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha.
 
 In 2014, the Karnataka government launched ReMS as a joint venture between the government and National Commodities & Derivatives Exchange Limited(NCDEX), claiming it was a pioneering step taken towards realising an emarket, enabling farmers and traders to trade online from anywhere in India. As of March 2018, ReMS has integrated online almost all 155 APMCs from across 30 districts in the state through a single licensed system, creating what is called the united market platform (UMP).
 
 M B Rajesh Gowda, director, Karnataka State Agricultural Marketing Board, said the ReMS portal was equipped with the provision of online payment, but the facility was deferred on requests from farmers and traders. “Last year, online payments ran up to Rs7 crore. However, we decided to put it in on hold after farmers said most were not ready for it. Traders, who pay farmers 45 days after the sale, didn’t want the online payment either,” said Gowda.
 
 Protected website
 On data security, Manoj Rajan, additional secretary of co-operative department and director of ReMS, said the portal is well-protected. “Vested interests are spreading lies about ReMS, which has been appreciated by the Centre and other states are trying to emulate it. While it has brought in much-needed transparency, intermediaries and middlemen who were thriving in the old system are opposing it,”he said .
 
 
