GURUGRAM: A   and his friend allegedly raped a woman, who works as a   at functions, late on Sunday after luring her into a car at Rajiv Chowk on the pretext of clearing her dues and giving her a ride home. Once they reached  , they took her out to a secluded spot and took turns to rape her. 

 The duo was arrested the same night after the woman told   cops, who intercepted the car at a police barricade, about the rape.
 
 According to the woman (35), who is from Bihar and resides in Dundahera village, she cooks and outsources other women to work at weddings and other functions. She used to work often for catering contractor Ram Ratan (40), a native of Nand Gaon in Agra district in Uttar Pradesh. 
 
 On Sunday, she was working at a function in Badshapur. Meanwhile, she had provided Ratan with four women for a function at the community centre in Sector 9. Around 10:30pm, she called him for her payment and he asked her to meet him at Rajiv Chowk. 
 
 When she reached there around 11pm, Ram Ratan and his friend, Sher Singh (32), a resident of Etah in UP who also worked with him, were waiting for her in a  . They asked her to sit in the car. Ratan told her that he would have to rush to deliver ice-cream to the Sector 9 community centre after which he would pay her and also, drop her home. “I sat in his car and he dropped ice-cream at the community centre before starting to drive here and there. The men also bought liquor. By then, I was getting scared and asked to be dropped home but they drove to Dwarka Expressway and stopped at a roadside before taking turns to rape me,” the woman alleged.
 
 She said that after the rape, they had reached the Sector 10 area around 2am when patrolling policemen intercepted the car and she told cops about the rape. Police took the duo into custody and rushed the woman to the police station.
 
 She was also taken to General Hospital, Civil Lines, for a medical examination where doctors confirmed rape. An FIR has been registered against the duo under Section 376-D (gang rape) of IPC at Sector 10A police station. The arrested men also confessed to the crime. 
 
 On Tuesday, the victim was produced in a city court and her statement recorded under Section 164 of CrPC. She repeated her claim before the magistrate, said police. “Ram Ratan and Sher Singh were working as catering contractors. When our cop intercepted their car, the woman started to cry and said that the duo had been raping her. So, we took them into custody. During interrogation, they confessed to the crime. They were produced in a city court on Tuesday and sent to judicial custody,” said inspector Yashwant Yadav, SHO, Sector 10A police station.
 
 
