CHENNAI: Physical and verbal harassment by policemen don't just psychologically scar transsexuals (transwomen) but also push them to engage in high-risk sexual behaviour that makes them vulnerable to contracting AIDS, interviews with 300 members of the group have revealed. 

 Researchers from three institutes teamed up to trace the pattern of victimisation among such transsexuals in four states, including Tamil Nadu, and studied its impact on their sexual behaviour.
 
 Interviews revealed that in many instances the policemen themselves were their sexual partners and forced them to engage in sex without condoms. In some cases, the implications of the abuse were psychological.
 
 The survey by US-based Yale School of Public Health, Postgraduate Insitute of Medical Education and Researcher (PGIMER), Chandigarh, and Centre for Sexuality and   (C-SHaRP), Chennai, was published recently in Violence and Gender - a peer-reviewed journal focusing on understanding, prediction and prevention of violence.
 
 Dr   of C-SHaRP, a co-author, said, "We asked them questions like how often they had been verbally harassed by police for being a transgender. They were then asked to respond on a scale ranging from 'never' to 'many times'," he explained.
 
 Close to 43% of the participants reported abuse by police that was either verbal, physical or sexual, or all of them. The average age of the those studied was around 30 years.
 
 Around 30% of those victimised by police reported inconsistent condom use with male paying partners compared to the 11% who reported the same in the low victimisation group. Dr   said, while some of them reported being raped by policemen, many engaged in sex work said the men in khaki often extorted money. "This affects their negotiation powers with their clients. When offered more money for sex without condoms, they give in," he said.
 
 Victimisation can also lead to feelings of low self-esteem, which can impact the negotiation and adoption of safer sex practices. "The impact is more when the perpetrators are in positions of power," said Dr Chakrapani. Participants said police use the law as a means to inflict violence and obtain free sexual services. "  may be more vulnerable to police victimisation due to policies that criminalise transactional sex. These points are particularly salient for those who have sex with men as they can be punished under section 377 of the Indian Penal Code," the study noted.
 
 In India, the HIV prevalence among transwomen is 7.5%, nearly 19 times higher than the general population and three times more than woemn sex workers. According to the 2011 census, TN has 22,364 transsexuals. The findings, researchers said, will have important implications for  .
 
 
