MANGALURU: Children of   in the city, along with green brigades of the National Environment Care Federation ( ), took out—‘Jalapayana’—a rally on   from Sultan Battery to Maravoor on the Phalguni river, to highlight the plight of rivers in Dakshina Kannada district, that are being polluted due to inflow of untreated water and industrial effluents. 

 Children highlighted the significance and current plight of the Phalguni and Nethravati rivers through a Tulu song created by them. Activists spoke on the significance of World Water Day, and the responsibilities of the public and the government. “If the polluting of rivers continues like this, we will have no other option but to drink polluted water in the future. We will continue our fight against the polluting of the rivers continuously,” said Adi, a student of Swaroopa Adhyayana Kendra. 
 
 Rathnakar Suvarna, district president of the All India Moveera Association, said many traditional fishermen on the banks of the Phalguni river are now jobless due to pollution. “I am also a fisherman, and I used to fish in the Phalguni river till a few years ago. However, fishing on the Phalguni river has stopped completely in recent years due to pollution that results in health issues. Moreover, there has been a reduction in the fish population in the river. Hence, I request all fishing communities, including Mogaveeras, Billavas, Catholics and Muslims, to raise their voice against the polluting of rivers,” he added. 
 
 NECF secretary H Shashidar Shetty said the river was once the right destination for fishermen in the region, but is no longer so, due to pollution. “Earlier, fishermen caught prawns, crabs, shell-fish, lady fish, payye and other fish species from the river, but now these species are no longer available. Fishermen don’t venture into the river for fishing due to pollution,” he added. 
 
 Activist Dinesh Holla said people of the district and the government are equally responsible for polluting the rivers. “Though fish is an unavoidable part of the menu in the coastal district, people are still not serious about keeping rivers clean. If the situation continues like this, we will not be able to celebrate World Water Day in the future,” he warned. 
 
 ‘Kadala Koogu’, a documentary on river pollutionby Swaroopa Adhyayana Kendra, was released on the occasion. 
 
 
