Mangaluru: New SP of Dakshina Kannada B R Ravikanthegowda on Monday sent out a warning to trouble makers in Dakshina Kannada – get your house in order or face the full force of the law. This warning was not just for the trouble makers but also for the netizens who off late have used social media for sinister purposes of fomenting communal discord in society.

 Ravikanthegowda, who hitherto was Belagavi district police chief, took charge from V J Sajeeth, additional SP, replacing C H Sudheer Kumar Reddy who has already taken charge at Belagavi. Assuring to bring in best practices introduced by him in his previous posting and continuing the best police practices put in place by Sudheer Kumar and other seniors, Ravikanthegowda said the district police will always stand by law abiding citizens.
 
 Advocating the need for healthy discussions on contentious issues in a democratic set up, SP said any such activity should be within the ambit of the law. There will be no scope for anyone to vitiate social environment on account of their beliefs, policies and programmes, he said adding that people have reacted well to public-centric initiatives of the department during his previous postings and he will continue with the same after factoring in local needs of such initiatives.
 
 On reluctance of police officers to serve in DK, Ravikanthegowda said, “I have come here with an open heart. I have always regarded people of the district as culturally and intellectually minded and law abiding.” Parrying question of how he would handle ‘political interference’ in department functioning, SP said, “I welcome suggestions from all including politicians and will act on all that is legal. Well-meaning suggestions from politicians can’t be interference,” he said.
 
 Ravikanthegowda said revamped beat system introduced in Belagavi and front offices in police stations there will be some of the focus areas of administration in Dakshina Kannada. SP also hoped that an initiative of his to introduce parade commands in Kannada and appreciated by the police top-brass will become a functional reality soon.
 
 
