

 A: I stand by what I said after my meeting with Sri Sri Ravi Shankar. On first day of the board’s plenary, some members, particularly Qasim Rasool Ilyas and Kamaal Farooqui, turned aggressive and demanded action against me. I am not the one to run away from truth. And the truth is both Hindus and Muslims of this country want closure of the lingering dispute. I am told the Board has set up a four-member committee to take action against me. I respect those members, especially Board president Maulana Rabe Hasan Nadvi and Jamiatul Ulema-e-Hind president  . I have decided to skip the board’s proceedings in Hyderabad.
 
 
 
 
 
 A: The Board has been hijacked by aggressive, extremist elements. Spokesperson Maulana Khaleelur Rahman Sajjad Noamani claims (referring to a video clip of Noamani’s speech) India is going the Myanmar way and soon Muslims will face the fate of Rohingyas. He also says Hindu organizations are freely distributing arms to be used against Muslims. Noamani claims he has been attending RSS shakhas. So is the Board being run by RSS? I will mobilize support for Shariat Application Board and convinceMuslims todisband Personal Law Board as it is being run dictatorially.
 
 
 
 
 A: Owaisiis a lawyer and looks at a legal perspective. I respect him for that. But he is not an Islamic scholar and I have taught Quran and Hadith (Prophet’s traditions) at Nadwatul Ulema, Lucknow, for years. When they want me to withdraw my suggestion on shifting Babri site, I said and repeat that I submit to the will of Allah not to Personal Law Board. I dare them to show if Islam doesn’t permit shifting of mosques. Of four schools, the Hanbali school of jurisprudence allows shifting of mosques to promote peace and save lives.
 
 
 
 
 A: The last time Muslims offered namaz at Babri Masjidwas in 1949 and since then it has been used as a temple. Technically, the site is not a mosque. I am for shifting our place of worship to save the country from violence. I am not saying the site should be offered on a platter. It will be in exchange for a big plot of land where we will build a magnificent mosque and name it Masjidul Islam and an Islamic University. Since   is a disputed name, we will call it Masjidul Islam. The university will be a centre of learning for students of all religions to nurture harmony and patriotism.
 
 
 
 A: I will sit with Farooqui and Jeelani and chalk out the strategy. My next meeting is in Ayodhya later this month where I will sit with sadhus. If need arises, we will also meet PM Narendra Modi. I am speaking to common Muslims, not some members in AIMPLB who have become irrelevant and want to keep Muslims chained to a medieval mindset. Islam stands for peace and reconciliation and I will do everything I can to achieve this goal. My grandfather Late Maulana Ali Mian Nadvi with Kanchi Shankaracharya had tried to find a solution to Ayodhya dispute. I am trying to fulfill my grandfather’s dream. His formula tohave boththe mosque and templein Ayodhya was sabotaged.
 
 
 
 
 A: There is not a single senior aalim (Islamicscholar) from Hyderabad in the meet. A senior member, Maulana Mohammed Rahimuddin Ansari has been tasked to bring in chai-pani (he is in reception committee). The plenary is being held in Hyderabad and absence of leading city Muslims at the meet is worrying. It seems only one person is dictating terms to the board. I have spent over 30 years in the Board and don't feel like remaining in an organisation where elders are not respected.
 
 
 All Indian Muslim Personal Law Board’s 26th plenary being presided by board president Moulana Syed Mohd Rabey Hasan Nadvi, clerics Moulana Kaka Sayeed Ahmed Oomeri, Moulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani, secretary, Moulana Syed Arshad Madani in Hyderabad on Saturday
 
