Whenever a beauty trend starts gaining traction, chances are a Kardashian is behind it. Probably it’s the ubiquitous presence of the Kardashian-Jenner clan across all mediums — especially social media — that helps tracking the trend back to them. But if you are seeing your social feeds featuring someone turning blonde at some point, you can blame it on the long blonde tresses that KimK has been flaunting of late. But it’s not just her. Emilia Clarke, Zayn Malik, Emily Blunt, Sophie Turner, Nicole Kidman have all gone ‘light in their heads’. Closer home, model-actor   turned platinum blonde recently. 

 
 
 Haydon said her motivation was to change her look. And what’s more harmless than a hair colour, right? In fact, it’s a drastic change without going under the knife. But given that Indian hair colour is closer to black than blonde, going platinum on the pate is not for the faint-hearted. Celebrity make-up and hairstylist   says, “It’s not just a change of look but a lifestyle choice. You have to live up to your mane with makeup, clothes and an attitude.” Agrees makeover artist  , “Hair colour is the easiest thing you can do to dramatically change your appearance. But blonde is a commitment.” 
 
 Blonde colouring process typically involves more bleaching than other shades, and needs more post-colour maintenance. Dermatologist, cosmetologist and trichologist Dr Vandana Punjabi says, “Since our hair has a lot of melanin, the process of bleaching the hair does involve breaking a lot of natural hair bonds leading to dry, brittle and frayed hair.” Punjabi advises people with sensitive scalps to avoid it. 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 A good professional is a must when planning to go blonde. “A professional will factor in how the colour will grow out,” Dogra adds. Dermatologist Dr Geeta Fazalbhoy says that there’s nothing like a safe hair colour that does no damage. “If you are going for a colour, stay away from the root so the hair is not damaged from the cuticle.” 
 
 Dogra feels going blonde is a call for attention or people looking to change their image. But he’s not too worried. “It’s a trend and trends change.”
 
 
 
 
 
 1. What is your blonde budget?
 .
 2. What’s your natural hair colour?
 
 3. Do you know a good hairstylist? 
 
 4. How blonde do you want to go?
 
 5. How to choose your blonde? 
 
 6. Who’s your blonde idol? 
 
 7. Are you ready to up your haircare game? 
 
 8. Are you ready to change your makeup?
 
 9. Can I start small? 
 
 10. Do I need to break my bank? 
 
 
 Going blonde is not just a change of look but a life-style choice. You have to live up to your mane with makeup, clothes and an attitude.” 
 — Clint Fernandes, makeup artist and hairstylist
 
