NAGPUR: In a setback to popular mobile telephone company   and its dealer Vedom’s Company here, the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has slapped a fine of Rs 7,500 for deficiency in service and adopting unethical business practices on them.

 A division bench comprising president   and member   further told the company and the dealer to refund Rs9,500 towards cost of mobile along with 12% interest from June 25, 2015. Company’s authorized service centre at Sadar —   — is also made a respondent in the complaint. 
 
 The verdict came on a complaint of Ujjwal Nagar resident Deepak  , who had bought a Micromax mobile for Rs9,500, from Laxmi Bhuvan square based Vedom’s on July 25, 2014. However, On June 24, 2015, the handset suddenly stopped working and was not restarting after many attempts. Next day, he approached Al-Raza Micromax Shop for repair.
 
 The service centre however failed to repair the handset for a long time, and also failed to apprised of the customer till September 2015. Despite repeated attempts, his queries were not answered. He was only told that the handset was sent to company’s headoffice in Delhi for repairs. Atkar then made correspondences with the company’s head office, its service centre and dealer, but failed to receive any response. 
 
 Aggrieved with the discrepancy in the after-sales-service, Atkar finally lodged a complaint with the consumer forum on May 30, 2016. The judges observed that none of the respondents bothered to reply even after being served notices by the complainant and neither appeared before the forum for defending their side. They reached to the conclusion the company delivered a faulty handset to the customer and its service centre failed to repair it within guarantee period.
 
 While partly allowing the Atkar’s complaint, Premchandani and Gharde added that company’s refusal to either repair or provide new handset to the customer led to his mental harassment. They held that it also amounts to deficiency in service as per Section 12 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, and complainant needed to be compensated.
 
 (With inputs by Subodh Wasnik)
 
 
