ZIRAKPUR: The lack of cleanliness in   has been a major concern for the residents of this part of  . The local authorities have turned a blind eye to the rising mounds of filth along the main road. Apart from being an eyesore, the dump has become a health hazard as well.

 The garbage dump has come up along the newly laid four-lane road in Peermuchalla. The commuters have to bear the foul smell emanating from the pile. Collected from different localities, this trash can be spotted on both sides of the road, and wind and animals scatter it on the main highway. The residents allege that all the waste from more than 30 housing societies ends up on the site, even though it is not a designated spot for throwing garbage.
 
 The residents who wake up to the smell of garbage every day keep their doors shut so that that stink doesn’t invade their living rooms. Several members of the sanitation staff were seen carrying trash on trolleys and dumping it along the roadsides.  , a resident, said: “This is sheer misuse of public property, as the newly constructed road is being ruined with garbage dumps. As and when more people will come to live in the area, the garbage dump will become so huge that no one will care to remove it. It will become an even bigger nuisance.”
 
 Another resident,  , said: “We hardly have specific places to dump the garbage. If a place starts getting polluted, it turns into a garbage dump at some point. Sadly, now it’s the turn of this area.” The situation becomes worse for house owners when the wind starts blowing in the direction of their homes and carries the pungent smell of rotten waste into their drawing rooms.  , a resident of one of the nearby apartments, said: “The authorities concerned should designate some place where the garbage collected from the households is dumped. The sanitation staff is clueless where to throw the trash collected every morning.”
 
 The garbage can lead to several health risks, if not treated properly. The stench can cause respiratory disorders.  , a resident, said: “If the sanitation team doesn’t come to collect the garbage for just one day, we get tensed about where to throw the garbage, since the number of trash bins deployed in the area is very less. No one would travel 2 kilometers to just find a trash bin.”
 
 On the other hand, the commuters using the road feel unpleasant because of the foul smell. While many feel that the garbage lies too close to road and so it often flows down to the highway after rain.
 
 
