LUCKNOW: Chief minister   has recommended a   inquiry into the alleged suicide of assistant superintendent of police (ATS)  . At a meeting with principal secretary (home) and UP DGP on Wednesday evening, the CM was briefed about the circumstances around Sahani's death.

 
 “The CM has directed that the entire incident and cause of death be investigated by the CBI immediately. A recommendation will be sent immediately to the Centre in this regard,” said a senior government official. Earlier on Wednesday, DGP OP Singh ordered a separate probe into the death of Sahani. ADG (Lucknow zone)   will conduct the probe. Rajesh Sahni, ASP in UP ATS, had allegedly   at the squad’s headquarters in Lucknow on Tuesday.
 
 
 
 
 The inquiry would be conducted on the basis of CrPC Section 174. I will speak to police personnel who were present in the ATS building at the time of incident. I am also planning to meet Sahni’s wife and daughter to find out if he had discussed anything incriminating with them or was he under stress,” said Krishna. Krishna has also sought assistance of police officers who have expertise in analysing phone call records and internet logs.
 
 Rajesh Sahni, ASP in UP ATS, had allegedly committed suicide at the squad’s headquarters in Lucknow on Tuesday. He had used a service weapon to shoot himself dead. Some provincial police service officers and Sahani’s colleagues had met the DGP earlier in the day and demanded a probe.
 
 Meanwhile, ruling out any intruder’s entry in the ATS building, an officer posted with the squad said the entire compound is under CCTV cameras and commandos remain deployed at strategic parts. So, no outsider can enter the compound without permission, he added. On Wednesday evening, some police officers met Sahni’s wife at her residence in Police Lines. They asked her to give their concerns, if any, in writing to the government.
 
 SSP Deepak Kumar said if Sahni’s family gives a complaint then an FIR would be registered. “We all are in shock and stand by Sahani’s family,” said Kumar.
 
 On Wednesday morning, Sahani’s body was taken from Mahanagar Police Lines to Bhainsakund after a guard of honour. A condolence meeting was also held at Police officers’ Mess on Sapru Marg.
 
