NEW DELHI: Upset over stalling of inquiry by National Commission for Protection of Child Rights ( ) into alleged trafficking of orphaned children in  , the   on Thursday decided to take acountry-wide stock of management of orphanages, adoption process and facilities given to such children. 

 NCPCR through additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta made grave charges against West Bengal government and Jalpaiguri district administration for “illegal trading of newborn children” between 2013-15, when an ad hoc child welfare committee was functioning. Mehta said the   Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act did not permit setting up of ad hoc committees. 
 
 In May 2017, the Jalpaiguri Child Welfare Committee informed the NCPCR that 21 children “were not legally free before” being allowed for adoption, which is in violation of the JJ Act, 2015. When NCPCR summoned the WB officials to appear before it, the state moved the Calcutta HC saying the state commission for protection of child rights has already taken cognizance of the matter. 
 
 The HC had stalled the appearance of officials before NCPCR, which through advocate   appealed against the HC order in SC. Showing serious concern for rights of orphaned children allegedly being put up for adoption illegally, a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud said: 
 
 “A child cannot be bartered away at the whim and fancy or selfishness of the person in charge of orphanages. The person concerned may be liable for violation of human rights.” Referring to Mehta’s argument that in West Bengal, there has been trafficking of orphans and children are being sold, the bench said: “As the issue pertains to trafficking of children, which has a vital national concern and recognises no boundary, we think it appropriate to entertain the special leave petition.” 
 
 SC also stayed the HC order and proceedings before it. The SC issued notices to chief secretaries of all states asking them to respond with details by January 22, the next date of hearing.
