NAGPUR: City's best two forwards and consistent scorers   and Shreya Dandekar will play in the   for men and women scheduled to be held at the  , Chennai, from January 17 to 24.

 A month after they displayed their skills in the Maharashtra State Senior Basketball Championship in Matunga, Mumbai, and helped the Nagpur women team finish runner-up, both the   ( ) cagers - Mugdha and Shreya -made it to the 12-member state team.
 
 The eight-day nationals is being organized by   ( ) to pick the Indian teams for the Fiba Asia Basketball Championships.
 
 Both Mugdha and Shreya are the only two women players from Nagpur in the Maharashtra team. In the men's section, Kirti Goswami of GRC Kamptee, who represented Nagpur in the state meet, made it to the 12-member state team.
 
 While Mugdha had earlier played in the senior nationals twice, this will be the first opportunity for Shreya in the open category. Last year, however, both Mugdha and Shreya were made to skip the senior nationals due to the clash of dates of their respective All India University and School U-19 national tournaments.
 
 "This being my first senior nationals, I wish to make most of this opportunity. My aim is to make to the senior Indian team. I wish to continue and help my team win the championship and at the same time learn some important lessons," said Shreya.
 
 Mugdha, who is making a comeback in the senior squad after a years' gap, added, "Ours is a well balanced team and our initial aim is to enter the last four stage. We will take one game at a time and I look forward to make a name for myself and make my coaches proud."
 
 Both the city players, however, have played in many age category national events. In 2013, Mugdha became the second international player from the city to represent the Indian team for the Fiba Asia U-16 championships in Sri Lanka. Shreya, however, is waiting for her India cap for the world schools basketball meet.
 
 Both Mugdha and Shreya practice regularly at the Shankar Nagar-based Dharampeth Krida Mandal (DKM) courts under the guidance of Dhiraj Kadao. 
 
 They have been congratulated by all members of their club. President of   ( ) Sandeep Joshi and DKM secretary Ravindra Kulkarni have wished both Mugdha and Shreya a successful national tourney.
 
 
