CHENNAI:   general manager RK Kulshrestha has decided to shunt out all officers and staff, who had been working in the body’s sports association for several years, as it has led to complaints of malpractice and favouritism. The move follows a TOI report on the alleged irregularities and corruption in Southern Railway’s sports recruitment.

 The decision was taken at an emergency meeting held by Kulshrestha with chief operations manager S Anantharaman,   JP Pandey, chief planning and development engineer   and chief personnel officer   on May 7. Anantharaman, Pandey and Sinha are president, vice-president and secretary of Southern Railway Sports Association respectively. Anantharaman, Sinha and treasurer Bindu Madhavan have been occupying their posts for four, five and four years respectively. 
 
 TOI had earlier reported that the vigilance department had taken away files pertaining to recruitment. Because the selection trials were mired in corruption and red-tape, not a single sportsperson has been recruited since 2014, which has attracted censure from the Railway Board.
 
 Sources said Kulshrestha has instructed that new office-bearers be nominated by him and has demanded a monthly report regarding activities of the sports association like pending cases of recruitment. He has also demanded status reports on the financial situation and the infrastructure both of which are in a poor condition. He identified the need to develop sports facilities. TOI had highlighted how the zone does not have proper facilities of its own; in comparison, the Chennai-headquartered Integral Coach Factory (ICF) has developed world-class facilities of its own.
 
 Sources said Kulshrestha has also directed that in case of recruitment based on talent scouting, emphasis should be given to the most recent performances of the players under contention. This was to maintain the objectivity of the selection process; in the past there were cases where three-year-old performances of sportspersons was considered for selection.
 
 The GM has also directed a review of sports facilities and activities at the divisional level to encourage deserving railway persons.
 
 
