NEW DELHI: Best-selling author and founder of  , Arianna Huffington, on Tuesday said the main intention of social media companies is to grab and monetize people’s attention.

 Huffington was in the Capital to launch her company Thrive Global, a well-being and productivity firm that uses online and offline measures to help people avoid burnouts. Launched in New York in November, it has partnered with   to expand in India.
 
 “As Facebook co-founder Sean Parker said, the intention of social media is to consume more and more of your life,” said Huffington. “That is how they make money. They need your attention and therefore they have thousands of engineers who use what is known as slot machine psychology to give you intermittent rewards to make you want to come back.”
 
 Thrive Global is the 66-year-old digital media pioneer’s brand new effort to counter the negative effects of social media and tech addiction, something that she said, is leaving 100s of millions of people with mental and physical health disorders. For instance, even as mobile phone addiction shot up by as much as 100% in India, around 35% of working professionals reported that they have developed insomnia as a result of workrelated stress.
 
 Thrive Global aims to battle the current situation with components such as corporate workshops and coaching, a media platform dedicated to becoming the global hub for the conversation around well-being and a behaviour change product suite that includes science-based  , Journeys and Microsteps, as well as the Thrive App.
 
 “People realise now that when they are exhausted and burnt out, they are not as productive and healthy,” she said. “So, Thrive Global is very practical. It takes the latest science and also the ancient wisdom that originated here in India about what it is to lead a good life. And it breaks it down into actionable micro steps, small behavioral changes that can actually make us more productive and healthy.” Apart from helping individuals destress, Thrive Global has also worked with several leading organisations, including Accenture, JP Morgan, SAP,   and Alibaba, to refine its science-based change solutions.
 
 “We work with corporations to help them bring those principles into the workplace and change the way their employees work and live,” she said. “And then, we measure the impact on productivity, healthcare costs and attrition.”
 
 Huffington said she wanted to launch Thrive Global in India first after the US because of the ancient wisdom of scriptures such as the Bhagavad Gita and the Vedas. Times Bridge and Thrive Global together will develop modules combining indigenous traditional wisdom and global practices.
 
 “I think India has an incredible amount of wisdom to export to the rest of the world,” said the entrepreneur, who first came to India at the age of 17 to study comparative religion at Shantiniketan University in  .
 
 Blaming social media for people becoming angry, irritable and reactive and less empathetic, Huffington said it is time for them to take back control of their lives.
 
 “Technology is an incredible servant but a terrible master,” she said. “What is a ‘like’? A ‘like’ is the most superficial indication that someone cares for you. It takes asecond to like a picture. People become obsessed with how many likes their picture gets and they come back for that. These are all tools that play on our own needs for validation and hook us. And the only way to counter that is to treat them as tools and not masters.”
 
