HYDERABAD: Following the  's ( 's) decision to allow higher educational institutions to offer online non-technical degree courses, the   ( ) is all set to introduce one subject per course online from the 2018-19 academic year. 

 
 The regulations for online courses were approved by the UGC in its meeting held on Thursday and are aimed at attaining the targeted gross enrollment ratio of 30% by 2020.
 
 "The reform will be implemented on an experimental basis wherein students seeking admission to undergraduate commerce, arts and science streams will have one subject in the massive open online course (MOOC) introduced by the ministry of human resource development," said S Ramachandram, vice-chancellor, OU. 
 
 The subjects under MOOCs will have a minimum of four quadrants: video lectures, e-content, self-assessment and a discussion forum to clarify doubts. "If implementation of one subject per course is smooth during the academic year 2018-19, we intend to extend the number of subjects offered online. The UGC permits 20% of courses online," added Ramachandram. 
 
 As per regulations, the exams will be conducted in proctored mode and in conformity with any norms stipulated by the commission. The OU is among the three universities in Telangana, apart from the   and Professor Jayashankar   State Agricultural University, which are eligible for offering online courses as per UGC norms. 
 
 The OU has also initiated steps to revamp undergraduate curriculum. The changes will be in keeping with the model curriculum issued by the UGC. "We have already held a series of meetings with the   to redesign the courses. The changes will also be implemented in affiliated degree courses," said a senior official. 
 
 Officials claim the revised curriculum will be more focused on equipping students with enhanced spoken English and communication skills along with industry exposure. The university is also planning to make it mandatory for teachers to submit periodic reports on academic activities, including what they teach in classrooms and evaluation procedures adopted. Academic audits will be made a regular practice to enhance the quality of teaching. 
 
 
