KOLKATA: Eighteen-year-old Sujan Sardar has appeared for his higher secondary examinations. On Monday, he will cast his vote for the first time in the   panchayat polls.

 Panchayat voter Sardar’s home has a Kolkata address not too different from that of the swanky high-rise barely a kilometre away. Sardar says all invites for social functions at their   village mentions that in order to reach their village one must take an auto-rickshaw till Heritage College from Ruby-Anandapur crossing. But the Sardars’ proximity to a tony Kolkata neighbourhood ends with the address.
  
  
 Sardar’s home falls within Kheyada panchayat, outside the Kolkata Municipal Corporation area. The nearest government hospital is the  . Their police station, which is Sonarpur, is 10 kilometres away. Ironically, since they stay so close to Kolkata, the rent of a 10X8 square feet room with a small adjoining kitchen and a common toilet is Rs 2,000 per month.
 
 But, staying close to Kolkata hasn’t made any difference for them. “To get clean drinking water, we need to go to the   water tap in (KMC’s) ward 108 which is 400 metres from my home. We have a tube well at our home, but we need to buy packaged drinking water — a 20 litre jar costs Rs 40,” he says.
 
 The ruling Trinamool has already bagged the gram sabha seat here with Papia Naskar winning it for a second consecutive time, uncontested. Papia says, “There are some tube wells in the area, but still drinking water is a major problem. We had requested KMC to extend the pipeline to our area, but they refused. We now plan to set up a water tank on a two-bigha plot.” She, however, claims all homes have electricity and the metal road construction has been started.
 
 If water is the primary problem, road is the next. “The Ananadapur-Heritage-Choubhaga Road, that’s running in front of the village, has improved our connectivity. But, the land price, too, has doubled. The road inside the village, though, is still not motorable,” a villager said.
 
 
