NEW DELHI: The war of words between Pakistani all-rounder   and Indian cricketers entered Day 2 on Wednesday. While Afridi maintained his position on alleged human rights violation in Kashmir Valley, cricketers   and Mohd Kaif delivered curt rebuffs to Afridi. Cricket legend Kapil Dev also joined the debate, albeit to say Afridi shouldn't be paid attention. Batting maestro   asserted "no outsider needs to tell us what we need to do." Captain   offered a measured response, saying "your priorities stay with your nation".

 
 On Tuesday, Afridi posted, "We respect all. And this is an example as sportsman. But when it comes to human rights we expect the same for our innocent Kashmiris." Along with this tweet, the Pakistan cricketer posted a picture of himself with an Indian fan holding the Tricolour. Afridi had in February earned praise for asking this fan to hold her flag properly displayed when she sought a picture with him.
 
 "'Paisa bolta hai (money talks).' Can't imagine Afridi making these comments if Pakistani players were still playing in the IPL. Rather, what's needed to be condemned foremost is the reason because of which Pakistani players are not allowed to play in the IPL - infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan and Pakistan's support to separatists. We wish peace and love but peace is a twoway street," Kaif tweeted.
 
 In reply, Raina invoked his Kashmiri origins and tweeted, "Kashmir is an integral part of India and will remain so always. Kashmir is the pious land where my forefathers were born. I hope @SAfridiOfficial bhai asks Pakistan Army to stop terrorism and proxy war in our Kashmir. We want peace, not bloodshed and violence."
 
 When asked to comment a book launch in Mumbai, Tendulkar said, "We have got capable people to manage our country, run our country. No outsider needs to tell us what we need to do.
 
 Speaking to TV news channels, Dev said it was best "not to react to certain people," and he respects the government's policies. When asked for a comment on Afridi in a similar press interaction, Kohli said, "Unless I have total knowledge of the issues and the intricacies of it, I don't engage in it. But definitely, it goes without saying that your priorities stay with your nation and anything that opposes it, you oppose it as well."
 
 Writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar also chimed in with a tweet saying, "Dear Mr Afridi, since you want to see a peaceful JK sans any human rights violations could you please see to it that Pak terrorists stop infiltrations n Pak army stops supporting the separatists by closing down the training camps. It will greatly help in solving the problem."
 
