GURUGRAM: A   fort at Badshapur, one of the most significant historical and archaeological sites in the region, has turned into an unauthorised colony, thanks to the apathy of government agencies. Of the palace, only a broken wall on the eastern side has stood the test of time. A tunnel and a mazaar of ‘Peer baba’ are found inside the settlement. A beautiful   (stepwell), which was an integral part of the site, is now privately owned by an individual. After years of neglect, the state archaeology department is now planning to restore the fort but removing   is going to be the biggest challenge.

 Director general of archaeology department of Haryana Dr Praveen Kumar confirmed encroachment in the fort premises. “I visited the site on Monday and asked the encroachers to vacate the land,” said Kumar, adding that they were going to survey the area and prepare a list of every one living on the encroached land. 
 
 Surrounded by 25-30 feet high walls, the fort was spread over 17 acres till late 1998 when encroachment started. In a short span of time, the ancient fort was replaced with more than 150 structures. ‘Badshapur Qila’, as it is locally known, was the abode of one of the wives of Emperor Bahadur Shah Zafar. 
 
 The Badshah was a frequent visitor to the fort. Over the centuries, the village around it has come to be known as Badshapur for its association with him.
 
 With the real estate boom in Gurugram, which is 8kms from the fort, plots in the village became scarce and costly. “Powerful people of the village started encroaching upon the qila and constructing on it,” Pradeep Nirala, a resident of Badshapur village said, adding that many of these encroachers destroyed the walls of the fort and marked the area as their own, around a decade ago. 
 
 More recently they realised that building small rooms on the fort premises and putting them on rent is more profitable.
 
 Nirala recounts that during his school days, they used to play inside the fort. “The fort had many tunnels. The encroachment started in 1998. Initially, people constructed houses along the boundary wall of the fort and over a period of time, entire houses came up in its place,” said Nirala, adding that the government never took any action against encroachers. He alleged government agencies were aware of the encroachment but chose to ignore.
 
 The official website of Haryana tourism lists   and the baoli as tourist spots. “A very old fort, probably built during medieval periods exists at Badshahpur, a village in district Gurugram. But now the fort is in ruins and needs restoration. Here in this village also exists an old baoli that used to function as water storage and feeding system,” reads the description of the fort on the Haryana tourism department website.
 
 Encroachers keep close watch on the movement of outsiders in the area, especially those inquiring about the fort. When TOI correspondent and photographer visited the area, they were tailed by locals, forcing them to retreat.
 
 Kumar said 20-25 local goons had encroached upon the land and built huge houses and other structures on it. “A few people have constructed structures on their own for renting purposes. Most of the people living in this area are tenants,” he said. 
 
 Kumar said the fort with many tunnels could be reconstructed. He said the department had access to technology that could restore the fort back to its old glory. 
 
 “The place can be developed as a beautiful tourist site,” he said.
 
 
