Chandigarh: Teachers of government and government-aided colleges in Haryana protested outside the headquarters of the state’s higher education department to demand implementation of the recommendations of the 7th Pay Commission. 

 During the protest, the teachers also asked the panel to act on other issues related to their service rules. The delegation submitted a memorandum to Bhupeshwar Dayal, officer on special duty (OSD) to chief minister.
 
 Assembled under the banner of Haryana Federation of University and College Teachers’ Organization (HFUCTO), teachers who attended the protest were from government colleges, government-aided colleges, Kurukshetra University, Maharishi Dayanand University (MDU), Rohtak; Guru Jambeshwar University (GJU), Hisar; Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University (CCSHAU), Hisar; and Deenbandhu Chhotu Ram University of Science and Technology (DCRUST), Murthal. “The government had extended the benefits of the 7th Pay Commission to all state employees, but teachers of state universities and colleges are still deprived of it. The Union ministry of human resource development and University Grants Commission (UGC) have issued directions to the state government in November 2017 for implementation of the commission’s recommendation, but all in vain,” said Vikas Siwach, president of HFUCTO.
 
 Teachers said they were left with no other option, except to stage a protest, because of the delaying tactics of the state government. The other demands of the teachers included raising the retirement age to 65, granting advance increments to teachers having M Phil and PhD degrees without NET, posts of professor in colleges, restoring old pension scheme, comprehensive medical scheme for teachers working in government-aided colleges, and merging of M Phil and PhD increments into basic pay.
 
 Home Guards also protest
 
 Demanding equal pay for equal work and more working days, Home Guards staged protests staged a protest at the new mini secretariat in Panchkula on Tuesday. Headed by Vikas Ranga, the Home Guards flayed the CM Manohar Lal Khattar-led government for purposely delaying implementation of promises made by it in the past.
 
 
