Anish Bhanwala, who won a   gold in Gold Coast to become India’s youngest medal winner at the Commonwealth Games, had packed his CBSE books alongside his pistol when he left for Australia.

 
 
 
 “The CBSE had, thankfully, rescheduled my exams. I had taken my books to Australia,” the 15-year-old, who fired a new meet record to win gold in the men’s 25-metre rapid fire pistol event, told TOI on Tuesday. Anish missed his board exams in March as he was participating in the ISSF Junior World Cup in Sydney where he won two gold medals.
 
 
 
 Anish, who studies at St Theresa’s Convent Senior Secondary School, Karnal, is currently giving his Class X board exams. “My aim is clear. I want to be the best shooter in the world. I have my studies and I will complete it but my focus is on shooting,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 Anish shot 37 in the trials of his event at CWG in Gold Coast, surpassing the 35-point world record set by Italian shooter   in 2014, an incredible feat for a boy who started shooting only three years ago. “My sister Muskan is a national-level shooter. After seeing her in the sport, I started shooting. I wanted to be a sportsperson and this was the game I thought would suit me. I like to swim when I am not shooting,” he said.
 
 Anish lives in Karnal. His father Jagpal is a lawyer and mother Poonam a homemaker. The boy shifted base to Faridabad two years ago because Karnal did not have a shooting range. “I didn’t want to leave Karnal but my game forced me to leave the city. Delhi was the place which offered better facilities for a shooter. Staying in Karnal is any day better as the air is cleaner and I have more friends there,” he said.
 
 In 2017, at the junior world shooting championship in Shul, Germany, Anish had won two gold, two silver and one bronze. “I don’t take part in any competition just for the sake of it. My aim is to win and that too convincingly,” Anish said.
 
 Today, he trains under Jaspal Rana, an international shooter. “I practise four to five hours daily.   has taught me discipline. He doesn’t allow any sloppiness during my training sessions.” The youngster was especially happy with a bag of chocolates he received with his gold medal. And yes, he ate them all in Gold Coast.
 
