NEW DELHI:   leaders   and   
  on PM   on Saturday, dubbing his policies as “dramebaazi” and divisive, while the party’s political resolution promised a “pragmatic approach” to unite like-minded parties to challenge BJP-RSS in 2019.

 
 In his brief speech at the Congress plenary here, Rahul said, “The country is in a way tired, looking for direction, and I say it with conviction that only Congress can show country the way.” He added anger and social divisions were being spread under  .
 
  
  
 
 
 While Rahul is to deliver his major speech on Sunday, Sonia led the attack on the   government, saying the PM’s pledge in the 2014 election to pursue inclusive development and crack down on corruption was nothing more than showboating while the pro-poor policies initiated under UPA have been reversed.
 
 Sonia and Rahul attacked the Modi regime for vendetta politics with the political resolution referring to the misuse of official agencies, though the document does not contain any mention of cases against Karti Chidambaram, son of senior Congress functionary and former finance minister P Chidambaram.
 
 Sonia’s sharp attack set off lusty sloganeering from party delegates as she said Congress had exposed corruption by PM Modi and his “friends” even as his government had weakened welfare programmes.
 
 “People have now understood that his 2014 promises of ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’ and ‘na khaoonga na khane dunga’ besides his ‘Mann ki Baat’ on radio, were pure ‘dramebaazi’ and a trick to wangle votes and grab power,” she charged. 
 
  
  
 
 The political resolution underlined the role of Congress in evolving a “common workable programme” to defeat the BJP-RSS in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “A resurgent Congress alone shall win back the idea of India as envisioned by the founding fathers of our nation,” it said.
 
 The frontal attack in the countdown to a busy election calendar leading to the mega 2019 contest was expected but appeared to carry a rare whiff of confidence post-2014. It appeared anchored in the recent negatives against BJP on graft and governance fronts, planks that the saffron camp has dominated since 2014, dislodging Congress in Delhi and across many states.
 
 The PNB scam of   and BJP’s defeat in Gorakhpur and Phulpur in the byelections on seats vacated by the UP chief minister and the deputy CM this week have emboldened Congress to talk about corruption and governance on BJP’s watch.
 
  
  
 
 The AICC session is crucial as party leaders from states take the template of campaign to their turfs while gauging the self-belief of the leadership.
 
 In his opening speech, Rahul Gandhi said the youth of the country was weary and unable to figure out where it would find employment while farmers were wondering how they will get remunerative prices for their crops.
 
 
 
 Hitting out at the Modi government for its flawed and anti-farmer policies, Congress promised a loan-waiver scheme for small and marginal farmers if it was voted to power in the next Lok Sabha polls.
 
