When you enter a railway station, usually the only thought on the mind is to catch the train on time. However, women commuters, of late, have also started looking over their shoulder to ward off danger from passers-by. Their fears are not unfounded as a 21-year-old woman commuter was forcibly kissed by a man at the Navi Mumbai railway station recently. In another incident, a college student was molested at the underground Metro subway. These are just the latest in a series of incidences, where women face   in public and it has brought into focus the need for women to increase their   techniques.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Santacruz-based nutritionist Sheryl Salis stopped going for her morning walks after being subjected to severe eve-teasing a few months ago. “I was out for my regular walk at BKC around 7 am,” she narrates. “A car full of goons started following me. They were shouting and trying to drive into me. I started to run, but they kept following me; it was terrifying. I managed to jump into a passing rickshaw and got away, but I have stopped going for my walks since then.” She highlighted the incident on Facebook and realised there was a lesson to be learned. “People messaged to say I should report it to the police, but I was too frightened to do so. Motivational messages are nice, but they are not enough, you need to take up a self-defence class to help yourself. Today, so many women in Mumbai are out on work; they must be able to defend themselves.” 
 Jigisha Shah, a resident of Fort, takes the local train to her workplace at Ghatkopar every day. “I have heard so many women complain about men who shout lewd comments from passing trains. It’s scary, sometimes we worry that one of them may jump off and pounce on us. We decided to take up   classes and we do feel 
 little more reassured now,” she says.
 Salonee Bagwe, a second-year college student from Byculla, has enrolled in a self-defence class as a preventive measure. “My dad is a police officer and he has told us of harassment cases where women have not been able to protect themselves. I don’t want to be in that position; I’d rather be safe than sorry. I feel better stepping out each day, knowing I can protect myself,” she says.
 
 
  
  
 
 Thrice a week in the evening, a bunch of women head to a hall in front of   at  , where they learn   or the art of using eight limbs. A battlefield skill used by soldiers, it makes use of elbows, knees, hands and feet for stronger impact. Affirms  , who trains them in the combat sport, “There is definitely an increase in the number of students owing to the rise of eve-teasing incidents in Mumbai. Several college students are taking it up to empower themselves, and not just for fitness reasons. For each woman, there is a primary concern running through their minds — the need to protect themselves in public places. Muay Thai is a close contact combat and apt for self-defence.” 
 The techniques require being adept and the ladies are giving it all they got. He adds, “We use combinations, for instance, an uppercut is fused with elbow strike to the jaw. First, the fist hits the chin and should it miss the opponent, the same hit is converted to an elbow swing. We also use knee-to-the-groin, which can easily bring anyone down to the floor. Not many know this, but an easily done move is to strike the person in the throat with the knuckle of the middle finger.” 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 With aim to toughen up their women staff, Mumbai’s corporates are amalgamating kick-boxing and other self-defence workshops into the agenda. Elroy Vaz, who takes   to corporates, says that defence training is the need of the hour. “Let’s face it, women are targets, especially working women. But what is heartening is that so many more corporates are open to having workshops on the premises for their women employees. One such technique we teach, Krav Maga, is an Israeli form of self- defence and it emanates from a natural human response. So, when someone attacks, respond right from whatever angle or situation you are in — whether you are sitting, jogging on the road, eating or even having coffee,” he explains. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Instructor Raja Mookherjee runs a self-defence program for banks, financial institutions and colleges in Mumbai. “What people do not realise is that self-defence is not just about fighting, but awareness. When you are attacked, two things go through the mind: ‘What can happen’ and ‘How do I get out of it?’ So, it is about how fast you can think and save yourself.” The basic moves help, he adds. “We teach a variety of escapes: how to escape if someone has grabbed your neck or pulled your hair from behind. Or if someone tries to carry you to a car. More than fancy techniques, it is these day-to-day survival tactics that matter. I feel every school, college and other institutions must take it up seriously and make space for it,” he says. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
