JOHANNESBURG: Having retained the top ranking in the Test series with a remarkable win over South Africa at the Wanderers last month – despite the series loss – the Indian team took that confidence into the One-dayers and have now stamped their authority in a format they’ve been dominating for a while now.

 
 
  
 
 India are now the top-ranked team in 50 overs cricket too by a considerable margin, a feat that could help   and Co. do wonders looking ahead to the 2019 ICC World Cup. There’s little time between now and the start of the marquee tournament in England next year – 15 months to be precise – and that would mean that the core of this present side is what India can expect to continue with barring the unforeseen, going forward.
 
 
 
 “If you look at the entire (ODI) series, it was a dominant performance for us. It will only give us confidence as a team to go outside and keep winning (more),” opener   said after the win in Port Elizabeth.
 
 The team’s ability to start on an aggressive note and then fall in line with the changing nature of the wicket – one that kept getting slower and made batting difficult – was in stark contrast to South Africa’s absolute failure in sticking around.
 
  
  
 
 However, the conditions notwithstanding, India’s inability to surge from a position of absolute strength to eventually not touching the 300-run mark raised questions on the middle-order’s inability to add to the top-order onslaught.
 
 While India’s victories against South Africa were dominating ones, they also came riding on a very poor opposition that batted miserably over the last couple of weeks. In that, the opposition – regardless of the series result – have posed India the questions they must answer before it’s time to head to England.
 
 Sharma, nevertheless, puts down the middle-order’s relatively dry run so far to lack of opportunities. “The bulk of scoring has been done by top 3-4 guys. I know our middle-order hasn’t got enough opportunities. If their turn to bat doesn’t come, we cannot do anything,” he says, adding in jest “If we are playing well, we cannot come back retired hurt”.
 
 Yet, the team does have its share of answering to do, even as it is supposed to happen within the sanctity of its dressing room. The fact that barring his impressive 93 in the first Test of the tour in Cape Town, allrounder Hardik Pandya has collectively managed around just 50 runs until now.
 
 If the team management were to do a checklist of the factors that went their way and ones that did not, it is the middle-order they’ll look to work on in the coming months. In an otherwise very strong outfit, the team is yet to figure out who’s their best bet to bat at No. 5 and 7.
 
 Between Virat Kohli,   and Sharma – in that order – India managed the bulk of their ODI scores while the rest of the line-up either lacked opportunities – as Sharma says – or fell short of making the most of whatever came their way.
 
 “Whatever series we have played before in India and in the Champions Trophy, a lot of the scoring has been done by the top three. It augurs well for the team because we always talk about batsmen batting through the innings. That is what we are trying to do,” says Sharma. “The top three have got the best opportunity because they get to play maximum balls.”
 
