NEW DELHI: The Batla House   encounter   seems to have been finally buried with the   of Ariz Khan. The wanted man’s name first surfaced during the interrogation of Mohammad Saif, who was nabbed from Batla House in 2008, and Shahzad Ahmad, who had escaped from the flat but was nabbed from Azamgarh in 2010.

 Recalling the encounter, an officer said that on September 19, 2008,   specialist inspector Mohan Chand Sharma accompanied by 7-8 cops swooped down upon flat number L-18 in Batla House of Jamia Nagar in southeast Delhi around 10.45am. “Sub-inspector Dharmender entered the flat posing as a telecom firm agent while six of us waited on the stairs,” recalled the cop.
 
 “Dharmender returned and confirmed the presence of terrorists inside the flat. The main door was locked, so we barged in through the one on the left that was open. However, we were caught in gunfire from the drawing room and the left side of the flat. Inspector Sharma and head constable Balwant fell after getting hit while the terrorists dashed for the front door firing indiscriminately,” the officer said.
 
 One terrorist, Atif, who was in the drawing room was also hit, while two others, later identified as Ariz Khan and Shahzad Ahmed alias Pappu, escaped. Dharmender and head constable Udaiveer took Sharma to the hospital, while sub-inspector Ravinder Tyagi brought Balwant down and handed him over to another officer before returning to the flat.
 
 Soon, the then DCP Alok Kumar and ACP Sanjeev Yadav reached the spot. Another terrorist, Chhota Sajid, was also gunned down. “When we again tried to enter the room, constable Rajbir was hit on his bulletproof jacket twice. We found Mohammed Saif in the bathroom and he surrendered,” said the officer.
 
 A slew of inquiries were initiated after the encounter, which had become a watershed moment for Delhi Police’s Special Cell who not only lost their team leader but braved all kinds of conspiracy theories for years.
 
 The then Congress general secretary, Digvijay Singh, had called the encounter fake and demanded a judicial inquiry. Congress, which was at the Centre, and the then home minister P Chidambaram, however, distanced themselves from Singh’s statements.
 
 Inspector Sharma’s family had expressed deep anguish over the controversy and termed it as political gimmick. For the next few years, Delhi cops largely refrained from using their guns against criminals leading to a spike in the crime rate in the capital.
 
 
