NEW DELHI:   complaints filed by the   department shot up nearly three times to 2,225 during April-November 2017, compared to 784 cases a year ago, the government said on Friday.

 The tax authorities decided to push for the prosecution of offenders as they did not want to be seen as being soft on violations of the Income Tax (I-T) Act, given the   government's focus on reducing black money. In addition, there has been an 83 per cent rise in cases where compounding has taken place, with the number reaching 1,052. Compounding of offences is done when the defaulter admits to their offence and pays the compounding fee as per stipulated conditions.
 
 In a statement, the finance ministry said 48 people were convicted of various offences during the first eight months of the financial year, compared to 13 during April-November 2016, a jump of nearly four times. The numbers come a day after the government said it had stepped up its crackdown on   and are seen as a response to criticism that   and other black money actions failed to produce the desired results.
 
 "Prosecutions have been initiated for various offences, including wilful attempt to evade tax or payment of any tax; wilful failure in filing returns of income; and false statement in verification and failure to deposit the tax deducted/collected at source, or inordinate delay in doing so," the finance ministry said.
 
 Among the cases where the judiciary has ruled in favour of the I-T department include one where a Dehradun court convicted a defaulter for holding an undisclosed account in a foreign bank and sentenced him to two years of imprisonment for wilful attempt to evade tax and two years for false statement in verification, along with a monetary penalty for each default.
 
 In Bengaluru, the managing director of an infrastructure company was found guilty of not depositing tax deductions of over Rs 60 lakh and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment of three months along with a fine. Similarly, a Mohali resident was held guilty of non-deposit of   within the prescribed time and sentenced to a year's jail along with fine.
 
 "The income tax department is committed to carry forward the drive against tax evasion and action against tax evaders will continue in all earnest in the remaining part of the current financial year," the ministry said.
 
