NEW DELHI: Getting a permanent   just got tougher for residents of south Delhi. The capital’s first automated   centre has come up at Sarai Kale Khan. 

 All applicants at the   regional transport office are being sent to the new facility. This RTO covers most of south Delhi. 
 
 The test is so gruelling that 50% of applicants have failed to clear it. So, what makes it tougher than the conventional driving test? Conventional tests require applicants to drive on a straight road amid traffic. An inspector who accompanies the applicant marks the test. But the automated test tracks are able to simulate tougher driving conditions where the entire range of an applicant’s driving skills are tested.
 
 The driving test is recorded on sensor-based CCTV cameras placed along the track. The video is live-streamed in a control room, and marking and evaluation is done automatically by a software. 
  
  
 The final result is generated by the software after analysing the number of times kerbs are hit, unscheduled stops, total time taken etc, and final marks are given by an inspector based on the result. 
 
 The exact parameters—like how many hits to kerbs disqualifies a driver—are yet to be finalised. But soon, the entire process would be computerised. The facility is yet to be launched officially, even though driving tests have already started.
 
 The automated tests include reversing a vehicle properly, driving on hairpin bends, parallel parking, driving on an incline, and negotiating loops shaped like 8. Similar test centres would come up at 11 other locations in the capital.
 
 “We have started conducting driving tests on the automated track recently and already, the number of applicants taking the driving test daily has fallen from nearly 300 a day to about 120. Of the average 120 tests conducted every day, 50 to 60 applicants fail the test,” said a transport department official. 
 
 Those who fail the test re-apply after a week. 
 
 “The driving tests for applicants at the Sheikh Sarai RTO were earlier being conducted on a one-kilometre stretch of road in  , where an inspector gauged the driving skills of an applicant. The automated test track is a much more scientific way of analysing driving skills,” the official said.
 
 The 11 other tracks would come up at Hauz Khas, Burari, Jharoda Kalan, Dwarka, Mayur Vihar, Pratap Nagar, Surajmal Vihar, Loni Border, Rohini, Raja Garden and   by the end of this year. 
 
 
