Imphal: As fate would have it, towards the business end of the  , the newcomers have become title contenders while the heavyweights play the role of challengers. When more-than-a-century old club   take on debutants   FC in an away match here at Khuman Lampak Main Stadium on Sunday, it’s mostly pride and prestige that the green and maroons will play for whereas table-toppers NEORCA look for three points to have a shot at the glory of winning the coveted trophy on debut.

 With 31 points from 16 matches so far, the Gift Raikhan-coached side is two points ahead of second-placed Minerva Punjab but the Khogen Singh-coached club have two games in hand. However, NEROCA don’t want to dwell on calculations and want to finish their last home engagement on a high before the tough away game against East Bengal, who were shocked by laggards Gokulam Kerala on Saturday. Bagan are fourth with 21 points from 14 matches.
 
 With championship hopes beckoning and a chance to play in the proposed Super Cup certain, NEROCA are going all out in their quest for glory and the last-minute signing of attacking midfielder Nick Ward is a testimony to that. The Aussie footballer, flying from Melbourne on Friday night, had his first training with NEROCA teammates in the afternoon practice session on Saturday and is likely to get a look-in on Sunday at least as a substitute.
 
 Although Bagan are not in the title race, Raikhan is well aware of the challenges they pose. “Pressure is already there for me as we have only two games remaining. It is not about Mohun Bagan or even Gokulam or Indian Arrows, the pressure is always there. But, Mohun Bagan is a good team and if you can win, it is good. We got one point in Kolkata and if we can get three tomorrow (Sunday), then it’s great,” he said during the pre-match press conference at the team hotel.
 
 “It’s not about the championship, it’s about the history, for me and the players, too. Mohun Bagan won’t play easily, they have no pressure but it is about prestige. They will come all out though they don’t have any chance. We cannot predict, anything can happen in football. We respect them, they have good players,” added Raikhan.
 
 Bagan coach Sankarlal Chakraborty also realises that they have to play for prestige and the battle will not be limited to on-field action. “NEROCA FC are playing very well at home. It’s Sunday and their last home game, they are in the race as well, so there will be lots of supporters. We are prepared to fight them both on and off the field. With the support from stands, it will be a tough game. They not only have good foreigners but good Indian players like Subhash Singh, Saran Singh and Sushil Singh,” he said.
 
 “We are not in the race for the championship. But we are trying to finish in a good position. If the Super Cup does happen, then we have to finish in the top four. Mohun Bagan is not only a football club, it is an institution. We have self-respect and prestige. For these reasons, we have to play our best tomorrow,” Chakraborty added.
 
 Meanwhile, Raikhan mentioned that club captain and first-choice goalkeeper Lalit Thapa is fit for selection but he will have a tough time choosing between Thapa and Bishorjit Singh for Sunday’s game with the latter keeping four clean sheets on the trot. Bagan don’t have any injury concern except a niggle to striker Aser Diapanda Dicka, who was seen wearing an ice pack in his left knee after the training session was over. However, coach said it was nothing serious.
 
 With a lot at stake for both sides, Sunday promises to offer an exciting match where Bagan can enjoy the game with a free mind and get some solace only by spoiling NEROCA’s hopes. But the game should be the winner.
 
 
