NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Sunday called for a bipartisan approach to the functioning of parliamentary committees, saying they could help develop consensus on issues that went beyond political score settling.

 “We debate in the House and are satisfied with some political scores. However, we should think about how to change the system for which all parties should be unanimous and make a cohesive bid,” Modi said at the pre-budget session meeting of political leaders. 
 
 Expressing concern over differences among members of parliamentary committees, the PM said the panels were sacrosanct and members should not be driven by party policies and ideologies alone. Though he did not name parliamentary panels, the functioning of the committee on civil aviation has attracted attention with ruling NDA members "rejecting" panel chair Trinamool MP Derek O'Brien's report on  . 
 
 "There should not be tokenism in committees, rather we should think about how the committees can do better. There is no media presence in committee deliberations... therefore members should be merit driven and work to strengthen the roots of democracy,” the PM is learnt to have said. 
 
 The short first half of the budget session is unlikely to provide much time to debate contentious issues the opposition has been raising with the presentation of the budget and a discussion on the President's address to the joint sitting of Parliament expected to consume most of the working hours.
 
 The discussion saw Congress leader   refer to the "crisis" in judiciary among issues to be flagged along with junior minister Anantkumar Hegde's controversial comments on "changing" the Constitution. CPI leader D Raja also referred to the recent controversy dogging the Supreme Court in the context of Kharge's comments. 
 
 CPM leader Sitaram Yechury has in recent remarks spoken of an opposition initiative to move an impeachment motion against CJI Dipak Misra in the context of four seniormost judges of the SC accusing the CJI of manipulating the allocation of cases to select benches and the petition seeking a probe into the "fake" encounter case of  . 
 
 Political leaders, however, pointed out that the first half of the budget session was not likely to see a substantive discussion on the issues flagged by the opposition though there might be some disruptions. Parliament will soon be in a four-week recess for parliamentary committees to examine demands relating to various ministries.
 
 The discussion that often provides an inkling to the flashpoints in a session saw Congress and Left dwell on Hegde's remarks and also seek clarification on the government's education policy in the context of junior HRD minister Satyapal Singh's comments denying the evolution theory. What sort of scientific temper was being inculcated in the light of Singh's comments, some leaders asked.
 
 Leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad spoke of recent incidents of violence in Jammu and Kashmir where two persons died in firing on stone-pelters.   leader Mulayam Singh Yadav referred to a crisis in the farm sector and the "woes" of the trading communities. His comments were seen to relate to farm agitations for better price and the impact of GST on business. 
 
 AIADMK and DMK spoke of fishermen who have been missing since Cyclone Ocki.
 
 “We hope the triple talaq bill is passed in Rajya Sabha too. My colleagues and I will leave no stone unturned in talking to and convincing political parties. The way they have passed GST unanimously, we request them to pass this too unanimously,” Kumar said. 
 
 
 
 When it was PM Narendra Modi’s turn to speak during the pre-budget meeting of political leaders, he noted that since CPI’s D Raja had expressed his views just before him, it was the turn of “praja (citizens) to speak after Raja”. The light-hearted remark saw Congress leader in Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge quickly add that it was really the turn of the “maharaja”. And while party leaders chuckled, parliamentary affairs minister Anant Kumar said he (the PM) was sitting in proximity to the real maharaja (Jyotiraditya Scindia).
 
