AMARAVATI:   ESL Narasimhan on Monday listed out the priorities of the state government and said that   is leading other states in growth rate because of various initiatives.

 Addressing the joint session of assembly on the first day of the budget session, the governor congratulated the members for holding the second budget session in the new capital. He said the state had incurred heave losses because of bifurcation, and stressed that the central government should give it a helping hand. 
 
 Narasimhan asked the Centre to implement all the promises made during the bifurcation. He said the state government is consulting with the Centre over various issues. The governor regretted that the Centre had given assets based on the geography of the state, while debts of the united state were distributed on the basis of the population, which he felt was irrational.
 
 He said the government is doing everything to develop all 13 districts on priority. The special funds promised for the backward districts of Rayalaseema and   will be utilised for the respective districts, he said.
 
 Speaking about the achievements of the government, the governor said AP has become power surplus in the past three years, and charges of electricity have not been increased. The government is now working on a mission to make the state water surplus through interlinking of rivers and completion of 28 irrigation projects.
 
 Adoption of technology has also helped the state improve law and order, bring down crime rate, and improve the satisfaction of the people in providing services. 
 
 The governor said that several industries have come to the state with the three successive partnership summits, and that jobs have been created as promised.
 
 He said growth rate in agriculture and allied sectors had crossed 25.6% because of the government’s policies. The government had paid Rs 13,976 crore to farmers as part of the promised loan waiver. 
 
 Referring to the new capital Amaravati, Narasimhan said construction work in the Startup region of the capital will start in 2018 by a Singapore consortium.
 
 Earlier, the governor was received by chief minister Chandrababu Naidu, speaker  , and legislative council chairman N Md Farooq.
 
 
