Panaji: Zulema Colaco-de Souza sports artificial knees and uses a pacemaker.
 
  That in no way affects the 82-year-old’s zest for life. She attends fitness classes three times a week and feeds on the nostalgia and energy released by the sport of   which the Margao-born is in no mood to forget as the highlight of her life.
  
  Ironically, Zulema never played for a Goan team but scorched the turf in   in the 1960s after her family migrated to the African nation from Pune where they settled when she was not quite a teenager.
  
  Her skills honed by the legendary KD Singh ‘Babu’, she delighted fans with her speed and body swerves on the left wing.
  
  In later years she emerged as the first woman umpire and extended her prowess to coaching, even initiating a club and national team.
  
  Zulema, now a resident of Toronto,  , is in Goa where she connected with friends and functionaries giving valuable insights on her journey across cultures, communities and professions but, last but not least, the sport that she loves.
  
  While doing so, she endorsed Stars Next Door, a book on the Goan sporting diaspora by Australia-based Cyprian Fernandes and shared camaraderie with Goan hockey icon Loretta D’Souza, Barbara D’Mello and Uganda teammate Esme D’Souza. Feisty by nature, Zulema took a lot in her stride. A victim of politics caused by split women’s hockey governance denied her a place in the India team.
  
  Then, after moving to Uganda in 1961 and initiating, not just a club but a national team as well, she had to flee the country in 1971 with her husband and children after the dictator Idi Amin reigned terror against foreigners.
  
  Zulema, by then, had developed resilience of a high order.
  
  She coped with indifference, even antipathy, not from the locals in Kampala where she instituted the Kololians, a team of school students, but from her very own Goans, a major segment of the expatriate population.
  
  “Goans looked at me as an ‘Indian’,” she said. The indifference partly arose because Zulema never ever played for a Goan team.
  
  Far from dispirited, she then embarked on developing the Kololians but, expectedly, received little or no support from Goans. Instead, help came from another quarter – the Punjabis, especially Sikhs!
  
  “They reached out far and wide for aid and a move to raise funds from drive-in theatres worked wonders,” Zulema reminisces.
  
  Goan at heart she well may be, but Zulema put sports above any regional, communal or religious affiliation.
  
  A fan of   she was spontaneous in cheering every piece of skill on the pitch—to unsavoury reaction on one occasion.
  
  “A Goan spectator used slurred words at me for cheering Sikh Union but I reacted with a threat to drag him to court,” she recounted.
  
  Zulema, however, prefers to remember a more endearing moment – the gold medal from the board of directors of the Kololian school – a token of appreciation from Sikh, Punjabi and Gujarati students and parents!
  
  In Canada, she picked up the pieces – and sticks – and formed a team from the ample Goan talent available. She developed the Goan Overseas Association team, many players of which went on to play for Canada.
  
  That included son   who donned the Canada colours at the 1985 Junior World Cup in Vancouver, one of six players of Indian origin in the team.
  
  It seems to have come a full circle for Zulema as she offered support for Goan hockey which appears to be caught in an eternal pit of mediocrity. But if there’s anyone whose counsel could turn the tide, it’s Zulema.
  
  After all her multi-faceted skills and abilities have seen her top up her sporting endeavours with forays into teaching, counselling, marriage and family mediation, even anger management, that have traversed cultures and international boundaries. Something a slogan that supported one of her many campaigns shouted: “Don’t be in a dilemma, vote for Zulema!”
