CHANDIGARH: The residents of   village have been consuming smelly, yellowish drinking  , which is apparently mixed with sewer water, for almost a year. This has become a crucial health hazard in the locality.

 The unclean   water that has been reaching the houses in the area through the faucets has allegedly affected the residents living in over 200 households in the locality. They have been suffering from stomach cramps and dysentery for the last few months. 
 
 Members of a village union group, while talking to TOI, complained that the water coming out of the taps in their houses stinks and has a yellowish tinge. They are which has made finding adequate and clean drinking water a crucial issue. Speaking to TOI, president of the village union   said, “The water reaching our homes is mixed with sewage water. We have been complaining about this since many months but nothing has happened in this regard so far. We had once submitted a written complaint in Sector 37 to the office of an MC official, who had then sent people to come and clean the sewer, but the situation returned to square one soon after.” 
 
 According to sources, the four-inch underground pipes, that carry drinking water had been laid almost 37 years ago and have now developed cracks at various places. Due to this, when the sewer water flows closeby, it enters the drinking water pipe as well. “I have just now got the medicines of stomach ache and loose motions for my wife. Last week I was down with the same problem,” said  , a Palsora resident. The local chemist also admitted that the sale of same medicines has gone up nowadays.
 
 The gutters have also remained dirty in the locality for a very long time and are in need of cleaning, to avoid any further civic issues in the area. 
 
 The residents of Palsora village have also held numerous demonstrations against the MC within the last one month. Even though, the MC officials have gotten the place cleaned once before, the problem with water continues to plague the village.
 
 The   were not reachable for a comment even after repeated attempts. 
 
 
