KOLKATA: For students securing admission to undergraduate Honours courses in Calcutta University-affiliated colleges this year, each lecture may span an hour, instead of the current 45-minute session. The 60-minute classes are being considered to implement the choice-based-credit-system ( ) and semester exams.

 
 “An one-hour theory class will accumulate one credit at the end of a week. The lecture for any course selected by a student will have to be held for an hour,” said the principal of a city college.
 
 The CBCS system will also allow a BA or BSc Honours candidate to bag a degree without studying English as one of the compulsory languages over the six semesters in three years. “The Ability Enhancement Compulsory Courses (AECC) are based upon a content that leads to knowledge enhancement. These are mandatory for all disciplines and have to be studied in the first and second semesters of Honours courses. Under AECC in semester 1, students can choose from  ,  ,   and Urdu. In the second semester, environmental studies is compulsory under AECC. Hence, a student can skip English during semester 1 AECC course,” the principal added. “But BA (general) course students have to appear for 100-mark English papers in semesters 3 and 6. This will put a tremendous pressure on them,” said a teacher.
 
 Under the old system, it was compulsory for all Honours students to study English as a 50-mark paper. The new decision of making English optional has raised a debate among some teachers, who felt the decision could be “regressive”.
 
 The above topics and several others, regarding the new systems introduced by CU, were discussed at a one-day workshop on CBCS admission and examination regulations that was organised by the Councils for Undergraduate Studies of   on Saturday. It was attended by college principals and teachers. “During the two sessions, from 11am to 1pm and 2pm to 4pm, the discussions revolved around the combination of subjects that can be offered, selection of teachers conducting myriad courses, fixing a routine amid the many options offered to students and the places to hold the multiple simultaneous lectures,” said a source at the workshop at the   campus.
 
 When queries were raised about the possibility of delayed results owing to simultaneous exams, which may lead to overburdening of examiners, CU authorities assured that in most subjects, a considerable number of questions would be multiple-choice ones.
 
 Some of the positive aspects of the semester exam and CBCS put forward by the university was that it would give students more choices than the current options. “Also, as exams will be on a half-yearly basis, candidates can score better than that at a single exam at the end of a year. Moreover, the syllabus load has been reduced. The choices on offer can be expanded,” said a principal from  . “Drawing up a routine will, however, be a problem as several courses will run simultaneously.”
 
