PATNA: At least 10% of all patients injured in road accidents suffer   injury. An associate professor at   (AIIMS-P), Dr Veena Singh, said on Friday though the injury can be acquired at birth and is most common in warfare, it is also prevalent in road accidents.

 Speaking at a workshop organized by the department of burns and plastic surgery at AIIMS-P on ‘AIIMS-P Brachial Plexus Injury ( ) Update 2018’, Dr Singh said brachial plexus is a network of nerves on the side of the neck just above the shoulder. “These nerves control the movement of the upper limbs. If a person gets injured near the neck, shoulders or the bones in these places gets fractured and this injury may disable the movement of the upper limbs and cause paralysis of hands.”
 
 She said one out of 20 patients injured in warfare is diagnosed with brachial plexus injury. “When the arms get pulled forcefully, in gunshot wounds or even with cancer or a tumour near the neck, patients may suffer from this kind of nerve damage,” Dr Singh said.
 
 She added people with complain of weakness in their hands, absent reflex actions, heaviness and loss of sensations or sensory deficit in the upper limbs, should immediately visit a plastic surgeon for medical intervention.
 
 “In some cases, the nerves get internally injured with no visible injury on the surface of the body. In such cases, the doctors wait for the next 3-4 months to ascertain the extent of the injury and wait for the patient to recover. Sometimes the nerves are only stretched and not injured. A surgery is planned if an injury occurs, in which case the healthy nerves are transferred and used to replace the injured nerves,” Dr Singh said.
 
 She said the injury may cause irreversible paralysis in some post-traumatic cases. “Sometimes the patient visits us after a year or two. In those cases, it becomes necessary for a muscle transfer operation. Orthopaedics and physiotherapists are also advised that if they encounter a case, which they suspect to be brachial plexus injury, they should refer the patient to plastic surgeons immediately,” Dr Singh said. 
 
 The workshop was attended by specialist in brachial plexus injury Dr P S Bhandari from Uttarakhand, Dr Arun Kumar Singh, HoD of plastic surgery department at King George Medical University (KGMU), Lucknow, and Dr   from the department of plastic surgery at Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI), Lucknow. 
 
 
