TRICHY: Sowing green thoughts among children, a panchayat union middle school (PUMS) in Kothavasal, Perambalur, has been quietly raising vegetable crops on their campus. Maintained jointly by teachers and students from classes VI to VIII, without affecting their classroom sessions, around 50-60 kg of vegetables of nine plant varieties are harvested at the school every week and supplied to the school kitchen for the noon meal scheme.

 The school has classes for standards I to VIII and a student strength of 140, of which classes up to standard IV are taught both English and in Tamil medium. Vegetable cultivation being done on about 0.25 acres within the school campus. 
 
 Started in September 2016 with the personal interest of 42-year-old teacher S   and subsequent cooperation from fellow staff, the green project expanded the acreage of horticulture crops from just 5 cents to 0.25 acres. “Teachers along with the students would engage in vegetable plantation and also in maintaining existing plants. It is the self-interest of 57 students studying from classes VI to VIII that allowed the acreage of horticulture crops to expand. Parents are also supportive in the move as they willingly send their wards to school even on Sundays,” S Elavalagan told TOI.
 
 With seeds obtained at free of cost from Indian Institute of Horticulture Research, Bengaluru, through good  , the school has planted about 18 vegetable varieties of which nine varieties render substantial yield on daily and weekly basis. 
 
 Belonging to the small onion belt of  , the school last week cultivated small onions within their campus and new vegetable breeds such as carrots, beetroot, cauliflower and cabbage. “For the last one year we have been cultivating and harvesting tomato, ladies finger, bitter gourd, snake gourd and broad beans. Most of the yield will go to the school kitchen for preparing noon meals for the children and the surplus, on rotational basis, would be provided free of cost to the families of students who actively maintain the crops,” Elavalagan added. 
 
 The school with as many as seven teachers including the headmaster perhaps could have made revenue by selling the surplus vegetables to the shops, but instead preferred to plant green thoughts among students by giving harvested vegetables to students as a pat on their backs.
 
 M Guru, a class VII student, said that the green activity in school has motivated him to pursue farming in future and said that his parents were happy about their ward spending quality time in farming. “My father migrated from agriculture even though my grandfather was a farmer. Completing my studies, I will certainly take up farming since it has become my passion,” said Guru, spotted watering the vegetable plants on the school campus on Sunday.
 
 Another student of the school,   said that he feels relaxed while watering the plants rather than playing cricket with his friends. On an average, each week, at least 5-10 children are taking home surplus vegetable for which feedback from their houses is positive as the vegetables are grown organically.
 
 
