JAIPUR: Caught in unexpected violence following the Bharat Bandh called by Dalit organisations on Monday, a group of Australian tourists found unexpected help from a group coaching students in   city of   district.

 Intimidated and shocked by stones pelted on their mini bus, a dozen tourists from Down Under made good their escape, with the help of students from a coaching institute, after a mob attacked and surrounded their vehicle at Hindaun.
 
 Before things could take a turn for the worst, a group of about 50 students from a private coaching institute chased the protesters away and took them to their institute and gave them first aid, breakfast and tea. A few of them suffered minor injuries in the melee.
 
 The students also informed the police. “The private coaching institute did a great job. Some of the injured tourists were given first aid, offered refreshment, helped to calm down after the horrific experience. Our team, which later reached the spot, escorted them to a private resort. They were advised not to continue with their journey to   in the district until the roads have been cleared,” said superintendent of police (SP) Anil Kayal, Karauli.
 
 “Our classes were going on when we heard mobs pelting stones. We rushed out to see a bus carrying foreign tourists surrounded by protesters. They were scared and some of them were crying. I immediately called my students and bailed them out of the bus amid stone pelting,” said Gajanand  , owner of the private coaching institute.
 
 The tourists thanked the students for their help. “Our students also apologised to them for the inconvenience caused by the bandh. They thanked us for the timely help,” said Solanki.
 
 Many voluntary organisations too provided tea, water, food and fruits to passengers who had to halt their journey at various trains in Alwar and   railway station. “Initially, when we entered the trains, people were scared as they thought we were protesters. We convinced them and offered them breakfast, tea, milk and other items,” said Ramesh Prajapat, member of a voluntary organisation.
 
 
