While Building Proposals department did not grant permission for restaurants, the civic body’s Health department went ahead and granted ‘eating house licences’.

 The irregularities seem to be crawling out of the burnt woodwork of 1Above and Mojo’s, the two restaurants gutted in last week’s fire at Kamala Mills that claimed 14 lives. It has now emerged that the BMC’s health department had brazenly issued ‘eating house licences’ despite there being no requisite permission from the civic body’s building proposals department.
 
 In 2012, the BMC’s building proposals department sanctioned a plan for commercial use (office), Satish Gite, executive engineer, building proposals department (city) informed Mirror. “In 2017, when they submitted a plan for restaurants instead, we never gave permission for change in user activity to run restaurants. The requisite chief fire officer’s conditions to run a restaurant weren’t complied with and hence we didn’t issue a completion certificate,” Gite added.
 
 However, the BMC’s health department of G (South) ward went ahead and granted them the ‘eating house licence’ despite no go-ahead from the Building Proposals Department.
 
 This disclosure points to the active role of  , medical officer of health (MOH) and inaction on the part of  , assistant commissioner, G (South) ward, which helped abet irregularities. When Gite was asked how Badgire issued an ‘eating house license’ despite no clearance from his department, Gite said, “It is something only he will be able to answer.” Badgire has been suspended for playing a substantial role in the irregularities. So far, there has been no action on assistant commissioner Prashant Sapkale, head of G (South) ward, who allowed the restaurants to function. When asked for his reaction, Sapkale told Mirror, “The building proposal department didn’t inform the ward office that the structures do not have completion certificates.” While allowing the restaurants to run, Sapkale had last year initiated action under Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning ( ) Act on the restaurant owners for the unauthorised construction of bamboo sheds and encroachment on open spaces on the terrace.
 
 Activists are not buying Sapkale’s argument of not being aware of the lack of completion certificates.  , chairman, Perry Road Residents’ Association said, “When the MRTP notice is being issued for violations, all the relevant files from the building proposals, health and building and factories department are routinely called for, to check the validity of the notice. So to say that the ward officer didn’t know about the completion certificate not being issued seems farcical. While the ward officer in this case issued MRTP notice and demolished the unauthorised constructions, it was rebuilt.”
 
 Gaurang Vora, member of F (North) ward Citizens’ Federation, added, “When an assistant commissioner issues MRTP notices, he has all the documents . Sapkale’s excuse seems to be an eyewash. Being a ward officer, he had ample power to demolish the structure after knowing that the owners indulged in illegal constructions, but he did not.”
 
