SURAT: A   Anisuddin Anwarali Saiyed of   was arrested on Sunday for his alleged involvement in   

 Saiyed, along with another suspended head constable Chintan Shah and other associates, allegedly abducted a businessman to extort ransom in bitcoins from him. Saiyed was remanded to police custody on being produced in court on Sunday.
 
 Detailed police investigation can reveal if Saiyed and Shah were involved in similar extortion cases, which have not yet been reported to police.
 
 Saiyed was nabbed from Habibshah Maholla in Nanpura area following specific information. Saiyed was on the run since February 12, when he along with few other accused abducted Jignesh Patel, who deals in vending machines for coffee and tea. Patel was abducted from a parking spot at Westfield Shopping Centre on Ghod Dod Road on February 12 afternoon.
 
 “He had demanded all the bitcoins that Patel had. We are yet to find out exactly how many bitcoins they were planning to extort from Patel,” said police.
 
 Saiyed and Shah were tipped by one former business associate of Patel about the latter’s investment in bitcoins. Saiyed, along with three other persons, took Patel to Kim near Surat after abducting him and kept in captivity at an underconstruction building. A shopowner at Westfield Complex alerted cops about the abduction. 
 
 Saiyed introduced himself as a policeman to the victim and threatened of police action if the bitcoins were not paid to him. Patel told Saiyed that he had discontinued   business and had no balance in the cryptocurrency. But Saiyed did not believe him and threatened him. Patel was later dropped in Jahangirpura area from where he contacted police.
 
 Saiyed and Shah were earlier booked and arrested at Kapodra police station for allegedly abducting a textile businessman. They threatened to frame him in a narcotics case to extort Rs 10 lakh in April 2017. Both the cops were posted at Udhna police station then and had introduced themselves as ATS officials. Saiyed is under suspension since then. He was also booked at Mahidharpura police station in a cheating case. Saiyed had obtained anticipatory bail in the Kapodra police station case.
 
 
