Well before a team from the Central   Council (CWC) recommended CBI probe into alleged waqf irregularities last month, the Supreme Court had directed the state government to order an inquiry into “all affairs” and “transactions” of the state Waqf board, prior to bifurcation of  , in June 2014. Now waqf rights activists have decided to knock on the doors of the judiciary seeking contempt of court proceedings against the state government.

 “Now that the board is bifurcated between   and Telangana, the orders of the apex court apply to both Telugu states. Neither state has ordered inquiry in pursuant of Supreme Court’s orders. We will now approach   and AP governments seeking implementation of the judgment, failing which we would move a contempt of court petition,” said waqf protection activist and Supreme Court advocate Khaja Aijazuddin.
 
 “Supreme Court held Waqf board as a statutory body. It is the duty of the state to oversee its functions. The property belonging to a Waqf cannot be permitted to wither away at the insistance of the office-bearers of the board, or those in charge of the Waqf” said Aijazuddin. He said the apex court had also observed that the board members are trustees and “should act like trustees”. The apex court was dealing with sale of waqf properties in Vijayawada.
 
 Aijazuddin said all efforts to obtain information from the state government under the Right to Information (RTI) Act on waqf “irregularities” and the delay in ordering a probe failed to yield any result. “We are now left with the last option of seeking contempt proceedings,” he said.
 
 Referring to “lack of proper supervision on waqf institutions”, waqf rights activist and BJP minority cell official spokesperson Firasat Ali Baqri told TOI that only a CBI probe would bring out the truth and nail the culprits. “Prime properties worth several crores are given on a paltry monthly rent. We have been demanding a waqf commissionerate to be headed by an IAS or IPS officer. Penal action should be taken against corrupt officials and board members after the inquiry,” Baqri demanded.
 
 
