Chandigarh: Manimajra residents, on Wednesday, submitted a memorandum to the municipal commissioner objecting to the Chandigarh municipal corporation’s decision to remove a police beat box from the area in order to accommodate street vendors.

 After two snatching incidents that took place in Manimajra on March 9, the residents had demanded increase in the presence of police in the area. However, instead of doing so, the MC has planned to get the existing police beat box removed and transform the site into a vending zone .
 
 In the memorandum, the residents have stated that the decision, if implemented, will create vehicular congestion and and hamper security.
 
 During a visit to the area, it was found that the site proposed for the vendor market does not have any parking space. There were other sites too where the vendor market could be set up without creating any chaos.
 
 In the memorandum, the residents stated that Manimjara housing complex is an area with high density of population. It is already congested with market on one side and primary school on the other. The site which is shortlisted for the vending zone to come up is an accident-prone area and the proposed vendor market will result in a sheer lack of parking space, adding to the chaos in the area.
 
 Another issue raised by the residents was the removal of police beat box from the site. Residents mentioned that the number of snatching cases among other petty crimes are on a rise. Hence, the removal of the beat box for any reason will add to their woes.
 
 The residents proposed that the vacant land facing gate number 3 of Modern Housing Complex should be earmarked for the purported vendor market.
 
 President of resident welfare association (RWA), Modern Housing Complex, Col Gursewak Singh said the residents are not against setting up of this vending zone. But, the authorities should decide by taking into account the public point of view. He said the association also wrote to the member of parliament (MP) Kirron Kher to look into the matter.
 
 Senior vice president of RWA S C Luthra said this move will deteriorate the law and order situation of the complex creating multiple illegal entry points.
 
 General secretary of RWA S A Qureshi said this move should be re-considered by the authorities as the residents living along the main road will be subjected to noise pollution as well as unhygienic environment. This would also add to the security issues faced by the residents.
 
 Wing Commander Tarsem Bhardwaj (retd) said keeping in view the increasing number of crimes in the area, the authorities should deploy more cops rather than removing the police beat box. According to him, this is clearly an anti-smart city move. He said if required, the MC be advised to locate the street vendors in the open area outside the gate number 3 of Modern Housing Complex.
 
 In the dock
 
 The residents have raised the issue with me and asked me to meet the officials, who are dealing with this project. I am going to propose the vending zone on some other land where parking space is also available. The site, finalised by the authorities, has also been approved by the chief engineer of the UT administration without taking my consent. They have not even talked to the resident welfare association. A primary school is also located near the site, proposed for the vending zone. This will create noise the whole day, which is not acceptable.
 
 Jagtar Singh | Councillor of Manimajra
 
 
