GURUGRAM: Two   who went for a swim in a   in Gurugram’s   village, drowned, while one of their friends who had accompanied the two stood in the shallows and another took their photos. 

 The bodies of the two teenagers, Adarsh (15) and Anish (14), were fished out by locals who witnessed the drowning from a distance, but they could not be saved. 
 
 The incident took place at around 4.30pm on Sunday, when four boys had gone to the pond near Kadipur temple for a swim. 
 
 Three of them entered the pond, while the fourth kept taking their photos in his cell phone. Two of them then decided to go deeper into the pond. As they went ahead, the boy on the shore kept shooting their video. 
 
 A man who was exercising in a gym close by, witnessed the sequence of event, including the moment the two boys appeared to drown, and rushed to save them, locals said.
 
 As he started running, he called out for help and dived into the water, followed by others. Together, they brought the boys out and tried to resuscitate them by pushing water out of their stomach, but it was too late. The police was then informed, and cops soon arrived at the spot. The family was subsequently informed.
 
 The deceased Anish and Adarsh are cousins. Adarsh’s family is from Bihar’s Chhapra district and currently live in Gurugram’s Ravi Nagar colony. His father works as a security supervisor in a private company. Anish’s family is from Bihar’s Siwan. He used to live in Gurugram’s  , and his father works as a security guard in a private company.
 
 Police said their bodies have been kept in the mortuary and a post-mortem will be carried out on Monday, after which they will be released to the family.
 
 In another freak incident, a 32-year-old woman drowned, allegedly after slipping into a pond in Badshapur’s Darbari road, where she had gone to immerse puja offerings. At the time of the incident, around 5.30pm on Sunday, Seema was accompanied by her young niece. 
 
 According to the latter, Seema’s feet slipped and she floated to a deeper part of the pond, where she continued to drown. The niece tried to alert people, but by the time the fire department arrived and took the woman’s body out, she was dead. SHO Badshapur Vishnu Parshad said it took a hour-and-a-half long search for the body to be recovered.
 
 
