Trichy: Cadets from National Cadet Corps (NCC) Trichy who brought laurels to the group by winning the national-level competitions in NCC camps held at various parts of the country were   on Wednesday.

 A total of 60 Army and Air Wing NCC cadets of various units of Trichy group were felicitated in the ceremony along with associate NCC officers and staff.
 
 It included 20 NCC cadets from various colleges in Trichy who had recently returned from Republic Day Camp (RDC) at New Delhi. Many of them were part of the Prime Minister’s rally representing Tamil Nadu at New Delhi.
 
 The annual RDC at New Delhi is a national-level competition for various sports and cultural events that witness the participation of cadets from across the country who are divided into 17 directorates.
 
 Conveying the message of group commander Colonel R Shivanathan, training officer Colonel Veeerabadiran praised dedicated NCC cadets for their remarkable achievements at national- and state-level competitions and motivated other cadets to emulate their success.
 
 He further talked about the important roles that they were expected to play in building the future of the nation and called upon to live up to the NCC motto ‘unity and discipline’.
 
 “We had the opportunity to meet cadets from across the country and compete with them in the national-level competitions,” said S Srivathsan from Bishop Heber College, who won all India silver medal in the aeromodelling competition. Srivathsan, who aspires to join the armed forces said that he made friends with people from all across the country.
 
 Wing commander C Gunasekaran, commanding officer 3 TN Air Squadron said that All India Vayu Sainik Camp was conducted in November 2017 at Jodhpur, Rajasthan in which three cadets from Trichy won individual medals in rifle firing and aeromodelling. Flight cadet Gokul Prathap from Trichy also attended Youth Exchange Programme at Bangladesh.
 
 Principal of National College, R Sundararaman congratulated the cadets and exhorted them to further strive to become responsible citizens. 
 
 A total of 70 colleges and 158 schools come under this NCC Group HQ in which 5,501 senior division and 13,198 junior division cadets (boys and girls) got enrolled in the training year 2017–18.
 
 
