HYDERABAD: A year after the central government gave its in principle nod for the project, the   government is still awaiting funds from the Union government for the development of the 338-km prestigious Regional Ring Road (RRR). The project is estimated to cost over Rs 5,000 crore.

 Roads and buildings minister Tummala Nageswara Rao along with some TRS MPs met Union minister Nitin   in Delhi recently and urged him to sanction money for the RRR.
 
 It may be mentioned here that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is very particular about completing this RRR project at the earliest as it improves connectivity to the   around Greater Hyderabad.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The RRR’s proposed alignment is through Sanga Reddy, Narsapur, Toopran, Gajwel, Jagdevpur, Bhuvanagiri, Choutuppal, Ibrahimpatnam, Chevella, Shankarpalli and Kandi extending up to 338-km. The RRR also passes through Gajwel, the Assembly constituency represented by KCR.
 
 The R&B minister also wanted improvement of connectivity from the old district headquarters to new district headquarters and from there to the state capital. Nageswara Rao also urged Nitin Gadkari to grant National Highway status to 11 more roads in Telangana, the accumulated length of which is 1,207 km.
 
 He thanked the Union minister for already having given NH status to 25 roads with an accumulated length of 3,155 km in Telangana but said that central funds need to be increased for maintenance of already-sanctioned NHs in Telangana.
 
 The Nageswara Rao-led delegation also informed the Union minister that the Telangana government has prepared project reports for improving connectivity and development of intra-state roads at an estimated cost of Rs 190.10 crore.
 
 Of the Rs 190 crore, as much as Rs 59 crore is for the development of Bhainsa-Peddapalli Road in Nirmal district and another Rs 51 crore towards expansion of   to   in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district.
 
 He also urged Gadkari to release central funds for construction of two bridges on Godavari river and one on   river as part of the Left wing extremist affected areas’ connectivity improvement and development project being implemented in LWE affected areas in the country.
 
 Later, the minister said that Gadkari responded positively and they were expecting enhanced central support for road development projects in Telangana.
 
