Chennai: For a movie or book rental company in India, charging their customer month-on-month remains a painful exercise. Recurring payments in India require a two-factor authentication which creates friction with the user every time the vendor has to charge the customer. To iron this out, online-subscription model companies find that incorporating out of Singapore helps them tide over the tediousness that comes with RBI’s two-factor authentication. Movie streaming company HeroTalkies shifted base to Singapore when it realised it was losing customers because of constant reminders and notifications to pay the monthly due.  “We shifted operations to Singapore for the ease and flexibility provided by the fintech ecosystem there. Our registered office, when we started in 2013, was in Chennai. But as we grew to a 50,000 plus customer base with customers in the US, UK, France, Germany, Australia and Malaysia, we realised we needed more flexibility in our payment model,” says Aathitiyan V S, co-founder, HeroTalkies, an online-streaming service that provides original Tamil Movies on-demand.  And its not just movies and book rentals, even Saas startups and fintech players are finding it difficult to work with Indian customers — as for many businesses that operate on a subscription model — the point at which they lose the customer is when they remind them to pay the monthly subscription. Practo also shifted base to Singapore to deal with this issue. “Most SaaS companies work on a recurring model and two factor authentication puts a blip on their customer experience. Involuntary churn or loss of customers who want to pay but are unable to because of a problem with the payment system or any other reason is not good for business. It creates friction and hurts growth,” says Krish Subramanian, co-founder, Chargebee. In December 2016, Reserve Bank of India (RBI) removed two-factor authentication for online card transactions involving sums up to Rs 2,000, in a move aimed at simplifying things for cab aggregators, wallets and e-commerce marketplaces. “But even today if you buy food on Swiggy, Zomato or take a cab ride using Ola wallet or Paytm for Rs 200 or less, the bank will still require two-factor authentication. This is because of the inherent security risks in the system - e-commerce players do not invest in security as much as banks do. Tomorrow our customers should not be at the losing end. So we don't give this leeway, though it is legally permitted,” said a bank official. In the current system, recurring charges are allowed only with wallets and credit cards. With credit card penetration as low as 5% today, industry observers say there is no support infrastructure for subscription businesses to thrive. Subramanian also adds that there is lack of tech innovation in payment gateways except for a few players who are focussing on Indian merchants. For instance, Razorpay offers a subscription management suite for merchants where the first transaction happens via credit card or net banking and customer consent is taken for recurring charges. “The subscription market is quite nascent in India. There is lack of awareness. We are now certified to auto charge based on Aadhaar consent as well,” said Harshil Mathur, cofounder and CEO, Razorpay. The company counts players like The Ken, Zomto and Zoho amongst its clients. Players in the space are waiting for the launch of UPI 2.0 which is expected to be launched later this year. UPI 2.0 has an inbuilt subscription model with an electronic mandate which will act as a one-time authorization for repeat payments. Instamojo is looking to launch its product for subscription based businesses around the time the UPI 2.0 is launched. “An automated billing system will help business flourish. For small merchants, a recurring billing system is still two steps away. They first want to get online and do digital transactions. Then, they will look at recurring billing,” said Sampad Swain, cofounder and CEO, Instamojo.