BHOPAL: Govind Singh Patel,   from Gadarwara, hit out at his government for alleged illegal sand mining on banks of river Narmada in Narsinghpur district. Singh also questioned   alleging sand mafia was blatantly violating rules. Denying allegations, the mining department clarified new GPS trekking system would help control illegal sand mining in the state.

 “I have submitted a letter to the district authorities and the chief minister to curb unabated illegal sand mining on the banks of river Narmada in my district. After new mining policy, mining rights were given to panchayats, but sand mafia is using machines to illegally excavate sand,” Patel told TOI.
 
 Patel is among leaders, who have been raising rampant sand mining by mafia in district on the banks of river Narmada. Earlier, former minister Kamal Patel had raised issue of illegal sand mining in Narmada and party MLA from Chhatarpur R D Prajapati drew the attention of government over illegal mining in Ken river.
 
 Attacking mining department over new sand mining policy, Patel alleged that under the new sand mining policy, panchayats have been empowered for non-mechanised mining rights, but it was noticed antisocial elements and henchmen of influential leaders were involved in excavating sand from river bed in gross violation of mining norms.
 
 “Mining mafia has turned active after the new sand mining policy as sarpanchs were given rights to allot sand mines. Henchmen of influential leaders are pressurising panchayat members and excavating sand from the river bed by using machines,” the letter read.
 
 Patel said local people were also disturbed by truckers and dumper operators, who are transporting sand using village routes. This has provoked mafia to evade royalty on sand which as per the new policy could be a good source of income for panchayats and villages, he said.
 
 Denying allegations,  , secretary, mineral resources department said illegal mining cases declined after the new mining policy came into effect. He said the department would soon implement new GPS tracking system for sand contractors to control illegal mining in the state.
 
 “There is a sharp fall in number of complaints against illegal mining in the state. We have not received any complaint on the matter alleged by MLA Patel. Action would be taken if there is anything like that. The department will soon execute a new GPS trekking system in vehicles to check illegal sand mining. Vehicles without GPS would be confiscated with immediate effect,” Dubey told TOI.
 
 The mining secretary said the government has invited tenders to implement GPS trekking policy. In a fortnight, tenders will be received and scrutinised and contractors would be assigned time limit to install GPS trekking system in their vehicles used for sand mining, he said. 
 
 
