JAIPUR: Clashes were reported between members of two communities in   at   area of the city on Thursday late night. The two groups pelted stones at each other, vandalized public property and damaged a few police vehicles. The Galta Gate police station team arrived at the spot and tried to pacify the angry youths, but failed, the miscreants also pelted stones at cops due to which some sustained minor injuries.

 According to additional commissioner of police (Law and Order) Nitin Deep Blaggan, at least 10 miscreants were detained for indulging in public brawl and damaging the state property. “There was some minor argument between some youths, as the fight escalated, some people who were returning from a religious gathering also jumped into the dispute,” Blaggan said, adding that situation was peaceful. 
 
 A minor tiff soon snowballed into a clash with some miscreants attempting to give it a communal undertone. The police teams from Galta Gate, Ramganj, Subash Chowk, Brahmpuri and other nearby areas were dispatched to the area. But the tension intensified with more people from both groups attacking each other.
 
 A police official told TOI that a heavy stone pelting was reported and the cops had to brave though hail of stones and bricks. The police at around 11.45 pm resorted to force in order to clamp down on miscreants.
 
 “There were droves of youths armed with sticks and iron rods, they posed a major challenge to the city’s law and order situation, we had to use force to disperse the miscreants,” said an official, adding that the traffic on this route had to be diverted from Jal Mahal area.
 
 The extra companies of Rajasthan Armed Constabulary (RAC) were deployed along with other anti-riot control team. The situation remained tense till early Friday morning. “Some people have given a complaint about the matter, the case is under investigation and strong action will be taken against those who deliberately disturbed the law and order situation,” an official said. 
 
 
