Everything was going fine in Rishita Nayak’s (31) four-year-old marriage, when things started falling apart just a week prior to their anniversary. She discovered certain texts on her husband Harsh’s phone that pointed to him having an extra-marital affair. “I simply could not believe he would cheat on me, he never showed any indications of this earlier,” she recalls, adding, “I had never checked his phone before this, but one day when I was looking at an app on his mobile, messages cropped up and I just couldn’t handle it! What felt more disheartening is how he (Harsh) used to send her late-night texts too, under the garb of official communication.” While their   hit rocky waters, psychologists warn that such   infidelity can happen anytime, more so, with the increasing addiction to technology. 
 
 Online affairs or   affairs can be just as damaging to a relationship as any other affair. Since they are rooted in secrecy and stealth, they bring about mistrust and can damage emotional and sexual  . Says psychological   Dr Pradnya Ajinkya, “What brings people into it is a need; it’s about how he or she gratifies his or her mental and physical need, facilitated by the easy availability and accessibility of platforms that provide easy connections. We see it as threatening to emotional health of individuals in marriages and I have seen complete breakdown of relationships with it. This stems from a kind of addiction and people who engage in online   become a slave to the habit. It can result in a complete lack of trust — spouses who are affected by infidelity take a long time to recover from the post-trauma, and they are always in fear of a relapse, that this may happen again at any time.” 
 
 
  
  
 
 In any relationship, apart from the physical aspect, mental and emotional quotients are key, explains marriage counsellor Dr Sanjoy Mukerji. “Any kind of infidelity takes place when a person is not happy in a relationship in any one of these areas, too.” He adds that warning signs will always be given. “It’s not sudden. Remember, he or she will always give signals. Sometimes, it can be verbal, like someone saying, ‘I can’t connect with you’ or ‘I need more time with you.’ Sometimes they may be behavioural cues like aloofness, don’t disregard it. Watch for these red flags that can save your relationship,” he says. 
 Blame the times we are living it in too, says Matunga-based psychologist, Purvi Shah. “People are in this greedy phase right now where nothing satisfies us, whether it comes to their career or more. The partner you’re looking at every day, can seem boring. This is when people look for flings and the cyber world becomes an easy escape for it. We tell couples who come for counselling to first divert their minds. They must take up a hobby like reading or playing a sport instead of engaging in it,” she advises. 
 
 Cyber affairs don’t have to be about intimacy. Even late night talking with someone or chatting that your partner may not approve of, constitutes such an affair. Adds Purvi, “An emotional connection online can be damaging to the marriage if it interferes with the relationship. Confiding secrets to someone, engaging in private conversations or even looking for emotional support, all play culprit. People may not be looking for a long-term relationship or invest in the emotional burden, but prefer to go cyber dating, which is short and comes without strings attached. People may also engage in infidelity to get rid of  , loneliness or crave attention. But all these can be detrimental to a real-life relationship.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cyber affair is defined as a romantic affair in which all contact takes place via the internet
 
 
