INDORE: Ancient art of  , which was introduced to each child through the bed time tales of grandparents, is being replaced by  . 

 The stormy trend of short films has not only grabbed eyeballs of directors and film makers across the world, but is also attracting amateurs from the city, who can be seen shooting short films at any and every scenic location in the city. 
 
 The sincerity and dedication of the youngsters towards this fast-forward art of telling stories is evident from the fact that two of  's film makers have been successful in getting their films in the   short film corner. One of them being 'Two at Midnight' directed by Stanley Hector and other being 'Curtains' by  . 
 
 The length of both these films is 15 minutes and they both capture human emotions through age-old dramatic techniques merged with new age digital lens play. Dubey's film was shot in Indore in two days in February. It is the tale of a theatre artiste played by Sriram Jog and how he feels after he is removed from his own theatre group. 
 
 "I worked with Jog dada for two years over this idea and we finalised the script this year in February. The total cost for the project was barely Rs 30,000 and the editing work was completed within ten days of the shoot," Dubey said.
 
 The efforts of such story tellers of the new age are also appreciated by the film buffs, who recognise short films as an art. "Just like we have come from test matches to T-20s, in the coming years, short films will be more popular than feature films as people will have lesser time and patience in everyday lives," Rakesh Mittal of Cinevision group said.
 
 However, some seasoned theatre artistes and film actors feel that even if story telling takes shape of short films, the soul of a story - its script - has to remain strong. 
 
 "There is a hoard among young film makers about making short films without expertise. The rule of survival of fittest will soon apply to this and only the worthy short film makers will remain," actor and theatre artiste Sriram Jog said.
 
 
