Despite that it’s a niche sport and a set of bows and arrows costs from Rs 8,000 to Rs 3 lakh, enrolling in archery classes in Chandigarh is not all that expensive. Not only this, if you have children and want them to improve their focus and concentration, then this is the game you may want them to pick up.

 
 The   has made a sport as classy and elegant as archery also affordable, to give it a push. The Chandigarh sports department archery club next to the   charges children a nominal Rs 500 for a year’s training. Adults have to pay between Rs 1,000 and Rs 1,200. Lucrative, isn’t it? “The administration is doing a lot for the sport,” said  , club’s lone coach for 35 students. “We have the best of equipment and considering that swimming, squash, badminton, and tennis classes cost Rs 4,000 to Rs 5,000 for six months, archery is the most economical sport to learn in the city.”
 
 Kulbir calls it a “true gentlemen’s sport, with many perks”. “It teaches you a lot of things together, from patience to the skill of raising the level of focus and concentration,” the coach said.  , part of the Indian women’s archery team that competed in the Athens Olympics of 2004, coached at this club for almost three years until she quit about two months ago and   came in.
 
 
 
 
 
 Kulbir Singh, 27, a graduate from Guru Nanak Dev University College in Amritsar, has a lot of gold, silver and bronze medals in his kitty from national championships and inter-university tournaments. But he was never into archery as a child. “I got introduced to this sport in college,” he says. “One of my uncles asked me to try out a bow. In six months, I was on a fourmember team for the inter-university championship, where I won the gold in my first shot.”
 
 
 This was eight years ago and there has been no looking back since that first motivation of Rs 7,500 cash prize and the gold medal. Today, the UT Administration presents Rs 20,000 along with medals to its best archers One of Kulbir’s students took a early retirement from defence s - vices to pursue his passion for - chery. Surjit, 39, former tank from Manipur, had quit swim because of medical reasons whe of his sister’s friends introduce to a new discipline.
 
 
 Since picking up a bow in Surjit and has participated in va competitions. “I am preparing fo - ior nationals and the first Asia P Masters’ Games coming up in Se - ber,” he said. “With a guide like K I hope to make the country pro
 
 
 
 
 
 The coach has also trained two cops for the inter-state police championship. All his 35 trainees aim for various championship medals. “Be--
 
 
 now, they not as aged in practice but once the tests are over, I plan to take them into hard training for senior, junior, and subsenior national meets,” Kulbir said.
 
 
 This sport demands regular workout and a good level of fitness. The training includes running, push-ups, pull ups, crunches, weightlifting for upper body strength, yoga for breath control, meditation for concentration, and archery-related exercises for stable hands and body.
 
 
 
 
 
 ompetition is tough. There are rs in India who score 358 and 359 f perfect round of 360. “But have h in your ability and your train-, be at peace, and you’ll perrm,” Kulbir said. “One of the ings my students need to learn uickly is self-belief. At times, during a competition, players under pressure after looking at onent’s scorecard, which makes jittery. Archers cannot afford to be nervous. I tell my students all the time to have confidence in what they have learnt with time. This will help them focus more.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Today, many states have started adjusting archers in various jobs. “A lot of government departments, including police, have positions for the archers who win medals for the country,” Kulbir said. “There’s a lot of scope for career growth through this sport.”
 
