TRICHY:   at the Cholan Parai in Woraiyur has been an abandoned for several years now, but the area is buzzing with activities everyday. While young boys show off their acrobatic diving and swimming skills, adults are seen washing clothes and bathing their cattle at the quarry – all of this despite the fencing/retaining wall (done partially) around it. 

 
 This may seem alarming – considering the number of drowning deaths which we have been witnessed across   quite often – but the condition seems to be worse in Thuvakudi, which has several abandoned quarries – some with partial fencing and the remaining with little or none.
 
 When TOI contacted the department of mining and geology, Trichy, regarding the activities at the Cholan Parai, the officials conducted an inspection at the abandoned quarry and said that they would discuss and come up with necessary measures regarding safety. 
 
 “Most of these quarries were abandoned more than two decades back when awareness about fencing was not much. It is indeed unsafe for youngsters to swim in this (Cholan Parai) quarry pond, the depth of which might be even 100ft,” said T Annadurai, assistant director of mining and geology in Trichy.
 
 Though there is a small warning board which has been put-up outside the quarry pond, children and adults do not really pay attention to the safety aspect. “All we can do is try our level best to come up with a plan which would restrict people and cattle from entering the pond – but even then people should be aware of the safety issues and not enter into the pond,” Annadurai told TOI.
 
 On the other hand, Thuvakudi, which used to be one of the most active areas in the central region for stone quarrying through the late 1970s till the mid 1990s, now has multiple abandoned quarries across   and  . 
 
 According to a source, the abandoned quarry ponds at Thuvakudi have lead to a few deaths over the past decade, the most recent which happened two years back at one of the quarries in Therukumalai, where a girl, in her late teens, fell and lost her life. The quarry still doesn’t have an extensive fencing/retaining wall.
 
 One of the major hindrances for constructing protective walls around the quarries is encroachments adjacent to the quarries. “Houses have been constructed very close to the quarries in an unauthorised manner across most of the abandoned quarries. This has been a major hurdle for us in providing total fencing around the quarries,” said commissioner, Thuvakudi municipality office, N Sridevi. 
 
 Though the quarry ponds at Thuvakudi have not been used for activities like swimming and washing clothes after the deaths, youngsters are still said to be swimming in those ponds occasionally whenever the water is relatively clean.
 
 Sridevi said that the municipality office has requested for fund allocation from the state government for erecting retaining walls completely around major abandoned quarries. “We have requested the government to allot funds for setting up fencing – as it would cost in crores, it will get a little delayed. That is why we have put up fencing where there were emergencies,” she said. 
 
