Five years ago,   saw 70% voting during the assembly polls but just 52.8% of us, Bengalureans, voted. We are building a reputation not just for traffic and burning lakes, but also for low voter turnout. A lot has been said about people going out on a holiday on the day of voting, but I believe there are bigger issues.

 
 Most important among them is bad voter lists. I feel the real turnout would be at least 60% but for the number of errors and duplications in the voter lists. People move within Bengaluru and their names don’t appear in the right constituency. Second is the lack of trust – cynicism about political parties and the candidates they field, besides rampant election code violations that keep a lot of voters away.
 
 The third reason is the disconnect from local politics. Due to massive migration, we now have lakhs of voters who cannot relate to Karnataka politics. While they actively contribute to the city by volunteering to revive lakes, fix garbage and other civic issues, they don’t connect with politicians or the running narrative of the state election.
 
 So what can we do? A significant push has been given this time to fix voter lists, enrol new voters and change addresses by the   as well as various civic organisations; we may see a little uptick on this front. As far as addressing lack of trust and disconnect from local politics go, I believe a lot can be done. What if the elections are more meaningful and people want to go out and vote? What if parties fight for our votes based on ideas and vision? What if the language of elections is that of real concerns of the people instead of religion/caste?
 
 I believe we can force politicians to change the narrative by occupying the space-of-agenda setting. We, as citizens, should make our demands known loud and clear so that they respond and not make the usual tall promises. The success of #SteelFlyoverBeda and #ChukuBukuBeku tell us that when people make demands forcefully in unison, politicians will take notice.
 
  has been trying to do this experiment with #BengaLurige-Beku #PattanadaPatti, a citizen’s manifesto from the grassroots. It has 50 demands and has been presented to countless politicians and party leaders. There have also been several constituency-level ‘citizens manifesto’ meetings and even parties are inviting the public to give inputs. Let’s join the dance of democracy by proactively participating in the election much before May 12.
 
 
 
 
 
 
