MUMBAI: Eight years have passed since   left the country after being accused of a series of financial misappropriations, but the   bosses of his era, many of whom have now moved on from the organisation, continue to be dragged in legal issues surrounding the former IPL czar.

 
 Apparently, in an alleged case of violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) against Modi in the conduct of the IPL in 2009, the Bombay High Court has directed that the entire top brass of the BCCI, including former presidents N Srinivasan,  , former IPL chairman Chirayu Amin, ex-IPL COO Sundar Raman and MP Pandove be cross examined by the ex-IPL commissioner’s lawyers Swadeep Hora and Abhishek Singh. The cross examination will take place before Special Director, Enforcement Directorate, at the ED’s office here.
 
 “Yes, I’ve been asked to appear on 5th, and I’ll do so,” Manohar, who’s now the chairman of the   (ICC) told TOI on Wednesday. He was the BCCI president when the alleged violations took place back in 2009. While Manohar has agreed to appear on the due date, Raman, who’s now with the Mumbai Indians, and Amin have excused themselves from appearing for the cross-examination on March 1. Raman has cited “illness” as an excuse, while Amin’s reason isn’t clear as yet. “It’s not easy to come at such a short notice. And what are we likely to remember after so many years,” felt a BCCI official.
 
 On Wednesday, Modi’s lawyer   accused these ex-Board officials of deliberately missing the cross-examination, where the BCCI’s legal counsels have been allowed to be present. “The erstwhile BCCI top officials appear to have developed cold feet at the prospect of being cross-examined by Modi’s legal team. It appears that there is much more to it than meets the eye. In fact, during the investigation stage of the alleged FEMA violations various erstwhile office-bearers of the BCCI had appeared before the investigating officer and made false statements on which they now risk being exposed by Modi,” alleged Abdi.
 
