KOCHI: With the schools set to reopen in almost three weeks, people are thronging book shops for   textbooks. The quality and standard of textbooks leave a lot to be desired. 

 Parents and teachers say that the books fall apart after the first two months of the academic year. Shopkeepers say that the buyers keep insisting for better copy, but most copies are damaged. There is a general feeling that the standard of learning content in textbooks is behind the times and should be raised, say school experts
 
 "The purpose of insisting on NCERT books should simultaneously be done with good quality textbook materials. Students are up-to-date with information from the social media and the internet. But the books are not up-to-date and some of the exercises mentioned in the book are not up-to-date either," said president of the   CBSE  , T P M Ibrahim Khan.
 
 With the CBSE rule stating that only NCERT textbooks should be used, even schools that were prescribing other publishers for some subjects have had to shift to NCERT. "The quality of textbooks is deteriorating. NCERT books fall apart quickly. They don't even last half-a-year," said Indu P, a biology teacher at Bhavans Thiruvankulam.
 
 Fr Antony, principal of Sacred Heart School,  , said that this year he has received several complains about the condition of the books. "The problem here is not for the senior students because they know that they have to absorb the content but for students in lower grades, it is very important that content and the presentation of the book is able to engage them," he said.
 
 Despite complaints against quality, the price of NCERT textbooks remain the same. "Cost of NCERT textbooks are consistent. Rates of privately published books vary, depending on quality. And such books usually have better quality paper in comparison to NCERT," said  , proprietor, Surya Book Stall.
 
 Nevertheless, parents and teachers have judged NCERT textbooks not just by their covers. "Editions should be revised. Not just social studies books but science texts too. Books are not upgraded and do not keep up with the times," Indu said.
 
 
