CHANDIGARH: The UT power department has said it will not be able to cut   and distribution (T&D) losses below the limit set by the   ( ).

 The department has suffered losses to the tune of around Rs 50 crore in past four years. It has been at the receiving end of criticism for passing on high T&D losses on to consumers.
 
 In a petition filed before the commission, the department said it managed to bring down T&D losses from 16% in 2013-14 to 14% in 2016-17. However, it will be difficult to substantially bring losses down from this level. The commission has set a 13.25% limit on T&D losses for Chandigarh.
 
 The department has cited non-availability of inter-state transmission point within boundaries of Chandigarh for high T&D losses. The metering is done at 400 KV Nalagarh, 220 KV   and 220 KV Dhulekote. The losses at 66KV and 33 KV stage are known as sub-transmission losses, while those at 11 KV and below are termed as distribution losses. T&D losses are difference between energy purchased by the licensee and energy billed to consumers. For efficient functioning of the system, it must be ensured that there are minimum losses in sub-transmission and distribution.
 
 The losses occur mainly on two counts — technical and commercial. Technical losses occur due to inherent character of equipment used for transmitting and distributing power, while commercial losses occur due to theft of energy, defective meters and drawl of unmetered supply.
 
 The electricity department caters to 2.28 lakh consumers divided into nine different categories. As per the official figures, of total consumers 1.99 lakh are domestic, which accounts to more than 87% of total consumers. Remaining 23 % belongs to other categories namely commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply.
 
 ‘TOUGH ASK’
 
 In a petition before Joint Electricity Regularity Commission, UT power department said it brought down T&D losses from 16% in 2013-14 to 14% in 2016-17
 
 It said it will be difficult for it to bring down T&D losses under the 13.25% limit set by the commission
 
 It cited non-availability of transmission points within boundaries of Chandigarh for the high losses
 
 
