KOLKATA:   was the flavour of this Yuletide season in Kolkata as tipplers said cheers to the most expensive varieties of single malt, wine and blended whisky, setting a new trend in a market that has traditionally been considered price-conscious.

 Leading distributors of imported alcoholic beverages say the 2017-2018 festive period, which started on December 24 last year and ended this Monday on January 1, was better than the 2016-2017 year-end season in terms of sales volume, thanks largely to the surge in the consumption of Scotch.
 
 Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI) president   estimated there was a 15%-20% jump in both liquor and food sales during this year-end compared to last year-end. “Both food and liquor sales went up but the latter was definitely higher than food,” he added. Liquor is not under GST and prices have remained unchanged. What also helped restaurant margins was the GST cut on food from 18% to 5%. “The demand for high-end liquor like wine and Scotch is going up. Restaurants have benefited because of this shift in drinking hab-its,” he added.
 
 Pratap Daryanani, owner of Park Street’s Oasis, has noticed something that corroborates the HRAEI observation. “I saw many of our regular patrons, who used to drink three pegs of an Indian premium whisky brand, go for may be a couple of pegs of a Scotch this festival season,” he said. “This has pushed up the volume of sales,” he added.
 
 Sarat Kumar Parsan, proprieter of   Brothers, one of the leading distributors of imported liquor, agreed that there had been a significant increase in high-end liquor sales that included single malts and blended Scotch whiskies.
 
 The annual volume of “bottled in overseas (BIO)” liquor (which refers to all spirits bottled abroad and which may include everything, from Scotch to wines to Cognac) in West Bengal is 8,000 cases. “December sales alone account for a third of this figure,” Parsan said, adding that there had been a 35% spike in December 2017 sales over the December 2016 figure.
 
 “December, especially the festive week, sees a jump in sales of both blended Scotch and single malt. But December 2017 has been exceptional when it comes to sale of high-end liquor,” he added. The high-end liquor market, though, is still in a nascent stage in Bengal. “It is only a Rs 150 crore market but is growing fast. The next three-four years will see double-digit growth,” he predicted.
 
 State excise deparment officials indicated that the December 2017 revenue may touch Rs 420 crore. It was Rs 380 crore in December 2016. “Revenue collection could touch Rs 200 crore for just the festive season,” a senior official said.
 
 The state’s annual excise revenue now stands at around Rs 4,400 crore while the liquor market as a whole is worth Rs 18,000 crore annually.
 
 
