AHMEDABAD: Extreme summer heat gripped   as seven towns recorded maximum temperatures above the 44°C mark on Sunday. 

 Ahmedabad city baked under the blistering sun, and recorded the season's highest, 44.8°C, crossing the 44°C-mark for the second time in last ten days. 
 
 Maximum temperature in the city was 3.1 degrees above normal. 
 
  airport, one of the 23 stations monitored by the Met department, was the hottest place in the state for the second day in a row, recording a maximum temperature of 46.3°C on Sunday. Deesa town in   district was the second hottest place at 45.8°C.
 
 In Ahmedabad, the minimum temperature was 29.1°C, which was 1.4 degrees above normal. 
 
 Maximum temperature of the city may touch 45°C on Monday. Relative humidity ranged between 65% and 27% on Sunday. 
 
 The extreme afternoon heat made going outdoors unbearable until late evening.
 
 A severe heatwave prevails in North Gujarat, Central Gujarat, Saurashtra and Kutch, an official statement by the India Meteorological Department ( ) said. 
 
 People preferred to remain indoors till late evening and the roads wore a deserted look due to very less vehicular traffic. Even during evening, hot air continued to blow making it unbearable for citizens. 
 
 Jayanta Sarkar, director of India Meteorological Department (IMD), Gujarat, said that Ahmedabad city registered the season's hottest day on Sunday. 
 
 "There was a heatwave all across Gujarat and there will be the same extreme condition on Monday also. Heatwave conditions will continue to prevail in North Gujarat, Central Gujarat and Saurashtra-Kutch regions on Monday also," he said.
 
 "Some respite can be expected from Tuesday as maximum temperature may drop by one or two degrees as winds pattern will change from south-westerly to westerly. Besides, the monsoon will also set in Kerala in some days, so the winds blowing from south-westerly direction will bring moisture to the state to provide a bit of respite," added Sarkar.
 
 The IMD warning on Sunday stated, "Heatwave conditions may prevail in parts of Gujarat region, Saurashtra-Kutch and in Diu." 
 
 According to IMD, maximum temperature will hover between 41 and 45 degrees over North Gujarat region, in parts of Saurashtra-Kutch and   region during next two days.
 
 
