NEW DELHI:   and the Burman family have got approval from the   board to invest Rs 1,800 crore in two tranches but more action may be in store for the keenly-contested hospital chain. The Munjal-Burman combine indicated that it will offer an exit route to   shareholders even as IHH, the Malaysian hospital group which lost the race, said it is evaluating a plan for an open offer to purchase shares directly from the public.

 
  and TPG, which were at one time frontrunners for the beleaguered hospital chain set up by Shivinder and Malvinder Singh, said they were waiting for the decision of shareholders, in a signal that they have not given up yet.
 
 Hero Enterprise chairman Sunil Kant Munjal said, "Once shareholders approve our preferential allotment and based on feedback from stakeholders, we are happy to evaluate taking further interest and responsibilities in the company/ management and for the purpose, if required, making public offer to provide exit to desiring shareholders."
 
 Since the plan does not involve a management takeover, a public offer to acquire shares is not immediately required. But, sources said, if the situation demanded, an open offer was not ruled out to enable willing shareholders to exit.
 
 The winning bidder also sought to comfort stakeholders, saying money was not going to be an issue to implement the company's growth plan. "We have plans ready for next 30 days, 100 days and 365 days for the hospital chain," Munjal said.
 
 A day after the board endorsement,  , a director on Fortis board, said the board's decision to opt for the Munjal-Burman proposal was primarily guided by the certainty of liquidity flowing into the company. The consortium currently holds around 3% in the company and plans to pump in Rs 800 crore via a preferential allotment of equity shares at Rs 167 apiece. It has also lined up a preferential issue of warrants of Rs 1,000 crore at Rs 176 per share. After the investment, the group will own a little less than 20% of the expanded capital of the company.
 
 IHH Healthcare MD and CEO Tan See Leng said in a statement, "We are disappointed by the decision made by the board of Fortis, as we believe we submitted the most compelling bid for the benefit of all Fortis stakeholders."
 
