VELLORE: Several assistant and associate   of the colleges affiliated to the   (TU) have been waiting for more than two years for their degrees, after submitting their theses. 

 According to   ( ) and the   Government Colleges Teachers Association, the university has failed to adhere to the norms laid down by the   ( ). 
 
 The UGC, has notified the ‘University Grants Commission (Minimum Standards and Procedure for Award of M.Phil/ Ph.D. Degrees) Regulations 2016’ in the gazette of India on July 5, 2016, which say that institutions should develop appropriate methods so as to complete the entire process of evaluation of M.Phil dissertation/ Ph.D.   within a period of six months from the date of submission of the dissertation or thesis.
 
 Officials of the Thiruvalluvar University have been delaying the process of evaluation of the thesis for 18 months to 36 months. Several candidates have been waiting for nearly four years, according to members of the AUT.
 
 “I submitted my thesis in mid-2014. Until today, the university has not processed its evaluation. When we approach the Controller of Examinations, he simply replies that it is being processed,” said a professor of Cheyyar Arignar Anna Government Arts College, in Tiruvannamalai district.
 
  “We are losing financially and academically by not getting our degree within the stipulated period,” said a maths assistant professor, who submitted her thesis paper in mid-2014. Eight other candidates who submitted their theses with her were also facing the same problem.
 
 The assistant professor and associate professors would get an increment of around Rs 7,000 and Rs 11,000 (per month) respectively, if they are awarded their degrees. Apart from this, they would subsequently receive guideship.
 
 The university has to charge only Rs 2,000, as approved by the syndicate, for the entire process of evaluation. However, the university has been collecting Rs 5,000 at the time of submitting sypnosis and Rs 10,000 at the time of submission of the thesis papers, claimed another government college teacher, who submitted his thesis paper 21 months ago.
 
 The university has also been charging Rs 250 for synopsis applications and Rs 500 for thesis applications, which should be distributed free of cost. “We raised the issue with the university officials at a meeting on December 29, 2016. They promised to rectify the problems, but the issues still prevail,” said another member of the AUT.
 
 Controller of Examinations (in-charge), B Senthil Kumar, said that there is no delay on the university’s part in awarding degrees. The delay is due to the response on the reports from the international or national level examiners. Vice chancellor of varsity K Murugan also denied the charges and said that there is no such delay.
 
 
