Chennai: The beleaguered Rs 4,700 crore Nagarjuna Oil Refinery project, which was planned to establish a 6 mtpa petroleum refinery and expected to usher in a large number of downstream industries in the Cuddalore region of north Tamil Nadu, has got a 90-day breather to find a suitor. The Chennai branch of the National Company Law Tribunal’s (NCLT), which on July 25, 2017, had given a six-month timeframe to the Resolution Professional (RP) under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) to find a suitor, following the failure of the promoters of Nagarjuna Oil Corporation Ltd (NOCL) to do so earlier. Since the process of inviting expression of interests from suitable buyers and conducting due diligence was time consuming, but progressing, it was decided to seek the mandatory additional three-month time from NCLT, which has accorded the same now. The onus is now on the RP to select a suitor within the 90-day time frame, failing which, NCLT is likely to order for liquidation of the company to facilitate sale of assets and use it to settle dues to lenders, it is learnt. “A few investors have shown keen interest in taking this project forward and the process of due diligence is on. We are hopeful of finding the right partner within the available timeline,” S Rajendran, RP appointed by the NCLT for the purpose told TOI on Monday. Though he declined to name the companies that have shown interest in the NOCL project at this juncture, state-owned BPCL is said to be one of the companies that is seriously looking at taking over this project, it is learnt. The invitation for Expression of Interest, from interested companies, published in October last year highlighted that the prospective suitor could start commercial production at the refinery in 2-3 years. NOCL has several thousand acres at its disposal, which is enough to expand capacity to 30 mtpa over a period. The suitors should have a minimum consolidated net worth of Rs 500 crore as on March 31, 2017, the invitation said, while opening up the opportunity to even private equity, VC and even mutual funds. The project, though delayed by several years, offers several benefits including VAT refund in the form of structured financial assistance from the state government, as assured by Tamil Nadu in the last Global Investors’ Meet. The project was partially completed in December 2011, when a cyclone and shortage of funds stopped work. While Nagarjuna Group had 47% stake in the project, the Tata Group companies heldd 45%, state-owned Tidco 2% and the rest coming from others.

 “A prospective suitor stands to gain a minimum of a 3-year head start, as against the promoter of a similar capacity green field project given the troubles involved in identifying a suitable site, not far away from a port, for the project, acquiring the large extent of land required and then getting the environment clearance. With almost 50% of hardware equipment and machinery erected, the NOCL unit can be turned around in quick time as compared to a new unit,” an industry source explained.
 
 
