BHOPAL:   seems to be betting on heavyweight  , who reportedly declined the offer to lead the state BJP, to be the ‘game changer’ ahead of the   in the state.

 As convener of the state election management committee, Tomar will lead BJP’s fight against anti-incumbency.
 
 
 After the ambitious task of launching ‘Gram Swaraj Aampaign’, Tomar said, he would kick-start his work with the election management committee. Speculations were rife over the ‘caste imbalance’ in the saffron party among Thakurs and Brahmins after the recent changes in state organisation.
 
 “I have no doubt about party’s performance in the coming assembly elections. I am comfortable with everyone in the party, be it a grassroots worker or a senior leader. My duty is to coordinate work and target the victory and I am ready for the same,” Tomar told TOI over his appointment to the election management committee.
 
 Tomar is all set to start his drive after May 5, when the party’s nationwide ‘Gram Swaraj Abhiyan’ concludes. The growing clout of the Union minister also clearly indicates that he would be decisive in taking the final call while distributing tickets for the assembly polls, said sources in BJP.
 
 The campaign though, has already begun, with Tomar visiting the riot-hit areas of Gwalior-Chambal region, two-days before PM Modi’s visit to Mandla. He not only met the riot-affected families, but also assured ‘complete help’ to restore confidence in the party.
 
 Sources in the BJP said that Tomar had always been a part of the election campaign teambe it in 2008 or 2013. He along with former union minister late Anil Madhav Dave and   had played a crucial role in managing the party’s team in 2008 and 2013 assembly polls and successfully scored a hat-trick in the state. His equation with the party leadership further strengthened after he joined the national team as the general secretary and later, emerged among the top five cabinet colleagues of PM Modi’s team in 2014.
 
 This was why he refused to join the state organisation and preferred to coordinate with the election management work. His name for the election committee was also decided unanimously which also hints at a possible leadership substitute in the state BJP.
 
 Sources said that besides anti-incumbency on various issues and unabated personal attacks by the rival political groups on chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Tomar has managed to take on all allegations against the party. His growing clout has also emerged as a challenge for the rival political groups as he can influence a major chunk of voters in Gwalior-Chambal region.
 
 
 
 
