In the latest episode of  , Yash’s sister gets into a tiff with her sister-in-law   and blames her for her brother’s death.  's sister tells Zoya that she has no right to be a part of his last rites.   is unable to make peace with the fact that   had an extramarital affair and refuses to be besides her during cremation. He asks for a small gathering to be present in Mumbai, but his father says it wouldn’t be possible. People would come even uninvited.

 Mr. Siddiqui sees his daughter in pain and is teary-eyed. Zoya’s sister comes and tells him to express his emotions to Zoya, who is seen shattered. Zoya’s sister-in-law doesn’t let her enter the ambulance and they leave with the body. Aditya is shown mad at Pooja for cheating on him. Outside the hospital, Zoya drops Yash’s belongings accidentally. And his spectacles are crushed by Aditya, who again reminds Zoya of her partner being unfaithful to her.
 
 At the Siddiqui house, Zoya’s father asks her to forget Yash and start afresh. Zoya decides to go to her house as it is her and Yash’s anniversary. When she reaches home, she recalls her memories with Yash, while Aditya gets drunk and looks at a couple on the street getting romantic with each other. He too thinks of the time he spent with Pooja.
 
 
  
 
 At 12 am, Zoya takes out the cake from the refrigerator and imagines Yash blowing the candles with her. Meanwhile, Aditya blows off the matchsticks and goes to a church. He gets emotional and rests on the chair. Zoya lights the candles in the same church and kneels down. She reveals she married Yash even when her family was against her. She says that she had trusted god then, who gave her the courage to follow her heart. She adds that she has decided to go to Mumbai for her love and asks god to give her strength.
  
 After she leaves the church, Aditya wakes up thinking of Pooja. Elsewhere, Mr Hooda looks for Pooja’s secret diary. Zoya meets her sister before leaving for Mumbai. Her sister is concerned about her plane journey since Zoya is scared of flying. The scene shifts and Zoya is seen settling herself in the plane. During the flight, she finds Aditya sitting right next to her.
 
