NEW DELHI: With BJP sounding the election bugle, the tussle for who will lead the opposition bloc is getting sharper. While Congress has conveyed to partners that it is not amenable to anyone seeking to change the leadership of the opposition grouping that, as UPA, successfully ruled Delhi for a decade,   chief   has made it clear that she is not ready to play second fiddle.

 This, even as TMC MPs are ready to attend a meeting of opposition parties, convened this week by Congress parliamentary party leader  . According to sources, the Congress leadership had asked for convenient dates from Banerjee to set up the meeting so that she could attend it, but she has asked her party’s parliamentary leaders Sudip Bandopadhyay and Derek O’ Brien to attend. While TMC remains part of the opposition group that Banerjee herself enthusiastically initiated along with Congress and others during the presidential election in 2017, she has been changing tack on accepting Congress’s leadership since   took over as party chief and Congress improved its position in the Gujarat polls.
 
 At a meeting of the opposition called by NCP chief   on Monday, Congress said a formal discussion should be called by Sonia since she is still the UPA chairperson. The message was aimed at keeping the status quo amid signs that the Maratha strongman was seeking to step into a vacuum of sorts that appeared with the slackening of opposition activities in the last few months.
 
 Pawar’s decision to convene a brainstorming session came barely two days after he banded opposition parties together in Mumbai to lead a “Save the Constitution” march on Republic Day.
 
 Congress turned out in full strength but its membership was limited to state leaders, contrary to Left satraps going from Delhi. Earlier in the day, Pawar pulled aside Rahul after the President’s joint address to Parliament and held an intense discussion with him. “When the formal opposition meeting is called this week, it will be attended by Sonia Gandhi and Rahul. It would be a different level,” a senior Congress leader said after the meeting at Pawar’s residence on Monday.
 
 
