BENGALURU: Fear continues to grip several districts of  , 25 days after a   first surfaced, pushing weapon-wielding mobs to attack people on mere suspicion.

 Though the police department has been reiterating that the video is fake, at least 90 innocents have been assaulted across the state, while a 26-year-old man was lynched in Bengaluru.
 
 On Friday, three women garment factory employees in  , near Whitefield, were locked up by a mob. Jurisdictional police, who rushed to the spot and rescued them, registered a case.
 
 Similar incidents were reported in Pulikeshinagar, Shivajinagar and Bharathinagar areas in Bengaluru on the intermediary night of Thursday and Friday. “Police rescued 12 people, including three women in these areas on Thursday night, and registered two cases against the mob for allegedly assaulting innocents,” police commissioner T Suneel Kumar said.
 
 The indiscriminate attacks have prompted police to book at least 72 cases, and arrest 46 people, including the 16 connected with the Bengaluru lynching. Four more were arrested in Cottonpet on Thursday night for beating up beggars.
 
 Cases were booked under multiple sections of the IPC, including Section 302 (murder) and 307 (attempt to murder). Although the assaults appear isolated, at locations across the state, the victims share common profiles. They are all beggars, nomads, rag pickers, daily wage labourers or maids, and those who cannot speak the local tongue.
 
 However, police officers in the districts confirmed that no cases of child abduction matching the suspected modus operandi, have been reported in Karnataka. On Thursday, DG&IGP Neelamani N Raju also reiterated this fact, and urged the public not to panic.
 
 Yet, the child helpline — 1098 — is flooded with calls by fearful people claiming there are childlifters in their areas. Police said the helpline has received at least 150 calls in the past fortnight.
 
 “Despite our best efforts, the public continues to believe the video and is spreading panic by sharing it,” a senior police officer said. Police have dedicated teams, including women police officials, visiting residential localities to spread awareness and urge people not to spread rumours.
 
 The districts most affected are Ballari, Raichur, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Koppal, Hassan, Tumakuru, Kolar and Chikkaballapura, and people in the country’s IT capital are also behaving in the same way.
 
