Vadodara: The Kalyannagar housing scheme has become a major embarrassment for the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) time and again. The primary reason why this happened was because of the unauthorised extra work done at the site.

 The VMC had instituted an inquiry after irregularities had come to light regarding the phase three of the housing blocks that have come up under the Basic Services for the Urban Poor (BSUP) scheme under the Jawaharlal Nehru National Urban Renewal Mission (JnNURM) and the Rajiv Aavas Yojana (RAY).
 
 The specifications of amenities provided under the scheme were changed and additional work was done only with an in principle approval from the municipal commissioner. No final nod for making the expenses was taken.
 
 As many as 4,096 houses were to be constructed in the BSUP phase three at Kalali and Sayajipura. Altering the original plan of having four-storey structures it was decided to construct five-storey structures at these sites. The specifications of several items were changed. Besides changes in specifications increasing cost, additional cost was also incurred by resorting to land filling using earth.
 
 The VMC overspent an amount of more than Rs 58crore without necessary concurrence from the standing committee of the civic body for the housing blocks. 
 
 VMC officials said that against an original tender of Rs 104crore in the BSUP projects, the project cost went up to Rs 138crore as the contractor could not begin work in time and another agency had to be given the work. But with alterations an additional expense of Rs 58crore was incurred taking the total project cost to Rs 196crore.
 
 In the RAY schemes including Kalyannagar it had come to light that the pile foundations made for the project were beyond specifications and had led to extremely high costs.
 
 Times View
 
 Housing schemes for the economic weaker sections seem to be proving to be the waterloo for the VMC. Be it schemes under the Basic Services for the Urban Poor (BSUP) of JnNURM, Rajiv Aavas Yojana or the latest Pradhan Mantri Aavas Yojana, controversy has dogged them over allegations of irregularities, quality of work and land issues. The VMC needs to seriously start working to ensure that the complications are ironed out at the earliest.
 
 
