Amaravati: Day after a veiled threat to pullout of NDA, Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu expressed angst on the step-motherly attitude of the Narendra Modi government while addressing the Assembly on Wednesday.

 Recalling PM Modi’s remarks that Congress successfully delivered the baby (Telangana), but killed the mother, Naidu said, the   is now stifling Andhra Pradesh by choking funds flow. “I visited Delhi 29 times, requesting the PM to handhold Andhra Pradesh, but to no avail. The funds flow for the new capital city and Polavaram project are meagre and promise on separate railway zone for Vizag remains unfulfilled,” he said, reiterating his demand that all 19 promises in the Andhra Pradesh   Act be honoured.
 
 Replying to a thanks-giving motion to Governor’s address, Naidu said though TDP and BJP are in a coalition, Centre did not extend the expected support to the state which suffered heavily due to bifurcation, four years ago.
 
 Naidu said in the bifurcation process, assets were given based on location, while liabilities distributed on basis of population. Electricity was shared based on consumption, he said, regretting that bifurcation had done injustice to the state. He blamed Congress for the injustice and said he aligned with BJP, hoping for justice.
 
 The Centre had made 19 key promises, including special category status, Polavaram as a national project, Metro Rail for Vijayawada and Vizag, sea port at Duggarajapatnam, special railway zone for Vizag, steel plant in Kadapa and Central institutes, including IIT and IIM in the state.
 
 “I am the seniormost politician in the country. I am working hard for development of the state and looking forward to cordial relations with the Central government. But, indifferent attitude from the Centre is painful,” he said.
 
 The Chief Minister further said that he had waited for almost four years while working hard for the development of the State. “We are ahead of other States including the national average in the growth rate. We have crossed the double digit growth rate. Though we are expecting the Centre to fulfil its promises, we can’t wait for the Centre to give funds. We have taken several initiatives to develop the State, mobilise investments and rope in several multinational companies to invest here,” Chandrababu Naidu said and regretted that his hard work and the State’s growth is being punished by the Centre.
 
 
