The 100 notified   will have a buffer zone of 50metres around it. In this buffer zone, construction of a permanent nature except for boat jetties will not be allowed. The fifty metres will be calculated from the mean high flood level observed in the past ten years.

 
 Under various Acts such as the Wild Life Protection Act, Forest Regulation Act, and   a few waterbodies have been protected. But urban wetlands do not come under any of these regulations. Rampant dumping of construction debris, solid waste, construction, encroachments, conversion of land and various other illegal activities including excessive fishing and closure of various supply channels of the lakes will be stopped. "These can be legally tackled once the wetland is notified," said an official.
 
 K Mohanraj, an environmentalist, said this buffer zone is very important but he said 100 was a meager number for Tamil Nadu. "There are more than 30,000 wetlands in Tamil Nadu. 100 is a small number. We hope that this notification is extended to more water bodies as several wetlands are of high ecological importance," he said.
 
 But activists said that the existing developmental activities around the lakes will pose as a major challenge for the authority. "In Coimbatore, the area around the lakes is very less. In some places, it is just one metre. In some wetlands, there are railway tracks, roads and even bus stands have been set up. So these should be removed," said Mohanraj.
 
 Activists said that in other cities such as Bengaluru around   several buildings were demolished that had encroached upon the lake. "Further orders for demolition around other city lakes in Bengaluru have also been issued," said an activist.
 
  of I C Centre for Governance said that under the smart city project, the city corporation had taken up eight lakes for development. "These buffer zones should be taken into consideration before further development takes place. Once the lakes are rejuvenated, the real estate prices in these areas will shoot up sharply. Politicians and policy makers will be the ones who would benefit the most. So the authority should ensure that the area around the lake is not misused as in the past," he said.
 
 
