PUNE: Two sets of boarding pass scanning gates that were recently installed at the   are expected to be a permanent feature at the facility

  ( ) chairman Guruprasad  , during his visit to Pune last week, was impressed by the system. Officials of city-based Siiddhey Instrumentation Private Limited, who have developed and installed the service, said that the gates were working smoothly and were able to scan all passenger boarding passes.
 
 “We had installed the gates at two points in the terminal building on January 10. They are working well. The main advantage of these gates is that they will reduce the workload on   security personnel who have to check the boarding passes of all passengers. There is a scanning device right next to each gate. Once a passenger scans the bar code on his boarding pass, the gates turn green and open automatically. While closed, the colour of the gates remains blue,” said  , managing director of the company.
 
 “There has been a lot of stress on airport security lately and new technologies are being adapted. Last year, a passenger was able to enter the terminal building with a fake ticket. These gates can play an important part in strengthening the security at the hyper-sensitive facility,” an airport official said.
 
 Speaking with the TOI last week, AAI chairman Mohapatra had said that full-body scanner machines had been tested by the CISF at the Delhi airport. “A trial run has been conducted and now the BCAS (Bureau of civil aviation safety) has to take a final call on the installation of the machines across airports,” he had said.
 
 Sources in the CISF in Delhi told TOI that they had recommended the BCAS to install the full-body scanners. “The trial was successful and we are all for their installation,” a senior official told TOI from Delhi.
 
 Pune airport director   said that the gates had been installed on a trial basis and the results were positive.
 
 The Lohegaon airport is likely to witness passenger traffic of around 8.2 million this year.
 
 
