BHOPAL: Thirty-three per cent candidates contesting for the post of civic body president during elections slated on January 17 across 21 civic bodies of the state are crorepatis and 16 per cent have criminal record. 

 These and many more interesting facts surfaced from the analysis of candidates' affidavits by  , an NGO - which works for electoral transparency. 
 
 Civic body polls are scheduled in 21 bodies in six districts, including Raghogarh of Guna district, Jaithari of Anuppur district, Omkareshwar of Khandwa district, Barwani, Sendhwa, Khetia, Pansemal, Palsud, Rajpur and Anjad of Barwani district, Dhar, Manawar, Pithampur, Dharmpuri, Dhamnod, Kukshi, Rajgarh, Sardarpur, and Dahi of Dhar district and Semaria of Rewa district. 
 
 A total of 76 candidates are in the fray. As per findings of the MP election watch, "12 or 16 per cent out of 76 candidates declared criminal cases against themselves in their self-sworn affidavits'.
 
 Of these 12, 9 candidates which are 12 per cent of 76 candidates declared serious criminal cases pending against them, said the report.
 
 If seen party-wise then, 2 (11 per cent) out of 19 candidates from INC, 1 (5 per cent) out of 20 candidates from the BJP, 1 (50 per cent) out of 2 candidates from the SHS and 5 (18 per cent) out of 28 Independent candidates declared serious criminal cases against themselves. Assetwise, 25 out of 76 candidates are crorepatis, constituting nearly 33 per cent of the total candidates.
 
 Ashok Kumar, who is contesting as an independent candidate from Dhar is the richest candidate with declared assets worth above Rs 13 crore. 
 
 Interestingly from the same district, Annubai, who is contesting from Pithampur for the post of chairman, has only Rs 500 as asset. 
 
 Election Watch MP co-ordinator Rolly Shivhare said, "These are self-sworn affidavits and are not verified. It would be much better if the election commission develops a mechanism wherein information provided by candidates could be verified factually before elections."
 
 
