MADURAI: With potable water becoming precious every passing day and purified drinking water with current technologies a costly affair especially in poor households, the nano-filter technology to treat water developed by the Bhabha atomic   ( ) which is on display at an expo in the city has been attracting many people wanting to know more about it.

 BARC has displayed two water filter models and pictures of other methods at the buyers–sellers meet organised by MADITSSIA (Madurai District Tiny and  ) in the city. 
 
 Senior scientist, BARC, V Daniel Chellappa said that the water filtering technology using poly-sulfone membrane developed by the centre has been successful in 26 states. The entrepreneurs have adopted the technology and have set up their units manufacturing the membranes.
 
 The water filters could be manufactured in a small unit of 200sqft with air-conditioned facility and dehumidifier to provide sterile environment in the facility. About Rs 2 to 5 lakh investment will be sufficient to set up the industrial units, he said. BARC will be transferring technology to interested entrepreneurs willing to start water purifier manufacturing. Since the purifiers could be manufactured with minimum investment, it will motivate the ‘Make In India’ initiative by the central government, he said.
 
 K Shanmugam, an entrepreneur said that it is cost-effective and saves energy. “People are buying water for money and pumping in overhead tanks. This technology appears very attractive when water becomes scarce,” he said.
 
 “A load of 5,000 litres water costs Rs 750 and considering the fact that an RO (reverse osmosis) plant may waste roughly 500 litres as effluent, it means a lot of money for residents,” said S  , a resident of Madurai who visited the exhibition. She came to the exhibition after hearing about the cost-effective water purifier but had to return disappointed as there was only a display of technology and it was meant for entrepreneurs.
 
 President of MADITSSIA, K P Murugan said that enthusiasm among entrepreneurs is overwhelming for the BARC technology. “We have received lot of registrations to learn about the technology. We conducted a workshop in this regard earlier and we will organise a mega workshop for entrepreneurs again to transfer the technology,” he said.
 
 In addition to membrane manufacturing, there will be lots of scope for plastic industry since the containers are made of plastic. Madurai is the hub of plastic manufacturing and it will be a shot in the arm for that industry, Murugan added.
 
 
