COIMBATORE: The elevation of R Chandrashekar, the rural district MGR youth wing secretary and a corporation contractor, as the publisher of   mouthpiece 'Namadhu Puratchi Thalaivi Amma' has raised many eyebrows within the ruling party. 

  Until the launch of the newspaper, the 38-year-old contractor was an unknown face outside Coimbatore party circles. But his close proximity to rural development minister S P Velumani earned   the coveted post. Sources say Chandrasekar might also contest for the mayor post in the Coimbatore local body election in an AIADMK ticket. Chandrashekar, however, has little experience in the publishing industry. 
 
  "I have been associated with the party for 18 years. I was approached to take over as publisher of this newspaper by the party. I agreed immediately and formed a partnership company to run the paper,'' Chandrasekhar told TOI . He put together a team of 60 people for the job out of which 45 are in editorial. "The content of the newspaper will be decided by chief minister   and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam,'' he said. 
 
  "Currently, we are publishing 60,000 copies which will become 1 lakh in ten days' time. We wish to take the circulation to 4 lakhs in the state," he said. 
 
  Born in Vadavalli in Coimbatore, Chandrashekar completed his engineering degree and joined the AIADMK. Within a year, he got his first posting as   area youth wing vice-president when he was 21 years old. That was the time when his association with Velumani, then a contractor, grew. Velumani is from Thondamuthur near Perur. Later he became the district students' wing secretary and continued to be in the post for 11 years. Simultaneously, he grew as a leading civil contractor carrying out multi crore projects for Coimbatore corporation. 
 
  KCP Engineering Pvt Ltd, started by his father K U Rajan, soon started bagging contracts across  . "We also ran Aalayam Welfare Trust and did a lot of charity work,'' he said. 
 
  Partymen say that the appointment of Chandraskhar to the post of publisher also indicates the growing clout of Velumani in the higher echelons of AIADMK. "We feel that Velumani will have an influence in the editorial content of Namadhu Amma,'' said a party functionary in Coimbatore. In fact, party men say that Velumani had a say even in Jaya TV and Namadhu MGR. 
 
  Chandrashekar, however, said he would set the publishing apparatus rolling and would eventually hand over the administration of the newspaper to party and move over. 
 
 
