Toddlers picking up smartphones for mindless playing, youngsters playing football, cricket or racquet games on their digital devices rather than on real grounds and teenagers glued to their social media instead of going out and socialising — the obsession with digital devices among youngsters is not only rampant in Mumbai, but has also become a major cause for concern among parents. They have, however, come up with innovative ways to bring back some semblance of normalcy into the lives of their children. 

 Take the case of actor  , father of three-year-old Vedika. He has come up with an app to get kids to go and play outdoors. He says, “We parents must encourage our kids to get out of home and just be kids.” However, there is a segment of parents that have no idea what to do if they face a similar situation. Nivedita Venkat, mother of a four-year-old, says, “My husband and I have 9-to-5 jobs, so we do not have the time to take our child outdoors. There are also times when we just cannot find the right project or activity.”
 
 And it is for parents like these that Vishal’s idea comes as a boon. He explains, “My app informs parents about outdoor activities that are available for kids in their area. For instance, they can choose an activity class like swimming for their child, which they can get free or with discounts. This will guide parents to encourage their kids to break free from the damaging effects of technology.” 
 
 Vishal says, “The real victims of busy schedules are the kids. While parents are too busy creating a life for the life they created, the kids are pushed into the most inconvenient convenience of the digital world.
 ” 
 
 
 Neeta Rane, a parent, makes sure her 10-year-old daughter goes out to play every single day. “There are times when she is not interested in stepping out and would rather spend time watching cartoons on TV or playing video games. But I am very particular that she goes down and plays with other building kids. That not only helps in terms of fitness but also in making friends and becoming a more social person.” 
 
 Jatin Paranjpe, former Ranji Trophy player, says, “Outdoor play is definitely challenging, but keeping children away from sports is not a solution. It should not even be an option. My wife and I have twins (a girl and boy). When they were eight, we were stuck in a similar dilemma.” Since they couldn’t find viable sports coaching for their kids, it strongly motivated Jatin to build an app that helped parents choose the kind of sports activity they wanted for their children. Jatin adds, “Sports not only keeps children busy and active, but also teaches them important aspects of life in terms of discipline and team spirit while encouraging a healthy and fit lifestyle,” he says. 
 
 
 
 The prevalence of social media has minimised genuine social communication. Doctors say that for wholesome psychological and social development, children need to interact with other children of their age. Dr Rajesh Parikh, a neuropsychiatrist says, “Playing with other kids at a young age is of utmost importance because you learn some of the unwritten rules of society when you interact with others. There are times when they put their own needs behind the team, they can’t always get their own way, they have to help others and accept help from others — there are many things that social interaction teaches. All these help children immensely. When I see children not playing, like we used to, I do feel worried.” He adds, “In a study done many years ago, it was found that children who were deprived of social interaction grew up to have a lot of problems. Social interaction is essential. The study also found that the strongest predictor of good health and longevity is social connectivity and the number of people we connect with personally.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
