Over a 100 kilometres away from Nagpur in social reformer Baba Amte’s Anandwan, a township which boasts of harnessing human resources at its best, a motley group of mavericks from the field of education met recently. A methodically unstructured attempt, which seemed to be a deliberate wink at the rigidly structured education system, was made. 

 While the government has been taking token efforts to remould the ‘struggling’ education system, on the agenda of these bohemians was ruminating on ways to eschew the formal way of education entrenched in the country since the days of the Raj.
 
 They are not against conventional education but its lack of employability skills, they are not against any curriculum but the non-flexible framework under which a scholar is expected to perform, they are not against degrees or diplomas but want them to be equipped with holistic learning, they are not un-pragmatic but believers of pedagogical approaches of learning.
 
 They know that they cannot fight the system unless they put their minds together. Coming under the aegis of ‘Indian Multi-universities Alliance’, for four days they created a network-building ‘classroom’ where alternative models for education was the only ‘subject’ and productive synergies were the takeaway ‘degrees’.
 
 This was a second of its kind meeting; the alliance first met in Udaipur in 2017 — the same year in which it was founded. “The idea was to collaborate and build a network of people who are creating alternative models,” says Manish Jain, co-founder of Udaipur-based Swaraj University which focuses on programmes that are designed by the learners themselves.
 
 Strong believers of experiential learning, these innovators in education feel that alternative education needs to go mainstream. “If not supplemented with a holistic approach, formal education can become lopsided and destructive. Six and seven-year-olds are being taught how to grow a plant on a computer screen,” says Dilip Jain, founding member of Ladakh based   (HIAL).
 
 Born and brought up in Mumbai, 14 years back Dilip went to the Students’ Educational and Cultural Movement of Ladakh (SECMOL), Ladakh, for an internship programme. Though he worked in the corporate sphere and later started his own venture, his bend towards progressive learning did not fade away.
 
 About two years back, Dilip took a sabbatical from work and joined hands with well-known education reformist Sonam Wangchuk to establish HIAL — the first of its kind alternative university which focuses on tackling issues faced by mountain people. “Our approach is very hands-on, more than 70% students are mountain people. For dealing with water scarcity, they are introduced to the unique innovation of Ice Stupas wherein wastewater during winters is stored in the form of huge ice cones. The cones start melting in spring and thus water can be used to fight scarcity,” tells Dilip.
 
 Through a crowdfunding campaign, he has managed to raise Rs6 crore for HIAL which also has on board promoting ecotourism and ecologically sustainable houses. “We are not giving any degrees or diplomas as we believe in learning by experience,” says Dilip.
 
 Down south in Puducherry, Anita Pathak shares the same belief. After her husband’s death, Anita did not want her son to “lose another parent to work demands” and made a conscious decision to shift to Auroville and soon became the founder director of   — an experiential learning and unlearning centre.
 
 Having grown up in the foothills of Himalayas, Anita has always been closely associated with water and troubled by its commercialization and pollution. As a result, most of the programmes in her centre are river journeys where young explorers delve into ecological, social, economic, cultural and historical aspects of rivers like Ganga, Yamuna and Cauvery.
 
 From studying architecture of temples across the river, herbal plants found on its banks to problems of communities living around river or water pollution, a student can choose his calling. “During Ganga Yatra, a girl was only clicking black and white portraits of people travelling near the river. Students are free to follow their passion, we just give them a framework and introduce them to concerned experts during the journey,” says Anita.
 
 At the end of a ‘yatra’ whose duration depends on the length of the river, students prepare a project report for community presentation. The centre’s unconventional programmes are now finding a place in schools’ curriculum. “We have convinced a Noida and a Chennai-based school to incorporate such journeys in their curriculum. We have designed special modules for school students,” says Anita.
 
 While Anita asserts that we are still following the defunct British legacy which wanted to kill the knowledge system of India, Denmark-based Lise Kallesoee feels a need for reviving the traditional schooling system of India. It was in 2017 when she first took part in Sadhana Forest, the residential learning program at Auroville.
 
 So motivated by its motto of deep-rooted sustainable living is Lise that she wants to make Puducherry her permanent residence. But, without a permanent visa, she has no option but to fly back to Denmark after 90 days and return with a fresh permit. Working as a long-term volunteer today, Lise says India desperately needs to redesign its curriculum. “With digitization, formal education is going to get outdated quickly. We need an alternative which allows students to learn by choice,” she says.
 
 Bhubaneswar’s Rishin and Rajni Chakraborty are one of the few parents who are giving that ‘choice’ to their eight and four-year-old daughters who are both being ‘unschooled’. The couple, till date, have not found a school which first “teaches through concrete experiences and then goes to the abstract”.
 
 They don’t mind keeping their girls away from conventional classrooms, they don’t even homeschool, as the two kids are ‘learning’ and ‘unlearning’ in their own creative ways. “The elder one has picked up reading and is already ahead of kids her age. Like in the first few years, we are inherently designed to learn crawling, standing up, walking and talking on our own, we learn other things the same way,” says Rishin.
 
 Parents who choose keeping their kids away from mainstream schools have challenges of their own. “We live in a country where not sending a child to conventional school is violating child rights,” says Rishin.
 
 One such parent Sachin Desai, who is running a study centre for experiential learning in their native village Dhamapur on the Konkan coast and keeping their 13-year-old daughter away from formal schooling, had filed a petition in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. The PIL had demanded that the government should not tag homeschooled kids as ‘out-of-education’ during surveys.
 
 Not very far from Desai, in Goa’s Parra village, is well-known Indian environmentalist Claude   who is “motivating kids to get out of schools”. Stating that the Right to Education is being wrongly understood, Alvares says that exercising the right should be left to the parents. “If a parent does not want his child to attend a formal school, the government should not interfere. It is not about degrees anymore,” he says.
 
 Claude substantiates his claim: “Leading global companies like Penguin and, Ernst and Young have announced that a degree is no longer a requirement for job applicants.”
 
 When it comes to support from the government, there is a mixed bag of expectations. “The least that the government can do is recognize alternative approaches to education but strictly without interfering,” says Rishin.
 
 On the other hand, some alternative universities need no recognition at all. “Look at radical initiatives like Shantiniketan and   Vidyapith. The innovative models became dead as soon as they came under the University Grants Commission (UGC),” says Manish.
 
 According to Deepak Menaria, founder of Nagpur-based Lemon Ideas which organized the meet in Anandwan, diploma is a disease. “Companies are beginning to understand it now, and the government should too. Those who are frustrated with mainstream education need an alternative and the government should let the alternatives exist parallelly without bringing them under its framework,” he says.
 
 ‘GAP YEAR IMPORTANT’
 
 Today if a student drops out of school or takes a break, it is frowned upon by all. But, these revolutionary educationists feel that ‘gap’ years are very important. “Every student should be allowed to take a break of a year from formal education and explore alternative choices. This will help him or her identify where their passions lie. Ideally, the gap year should be taken after the student turns 18,” said many of the educationists TOI spoke with.
 
 
