GHAZIABAD: Two persons died in different road accidents that took place on Saturday morning in Ghaziabad.

 In the first accident, a 65-year-old man died when the cab he was travelling in rammed a stationary trolley parked on a roadside near police post on NH-24 around 4am. The victim has been identified as Mohammad Rashid, a resident of Khurja in Bulandshahr. Rashid, a flower decorator, was returning from Delhi’s Ghazipur area and heading towards his native place, when the   took place.
 
 Rashid died on the spot, and the cab driver sustained injuries. He is currently recuperating at a government hospital.
 
 Mohammad Safiq, Rashid’s son, said, “My father had come to buy flowers from Ghazipur for a marriage function in Bulandshahr. He had flagged down an Ola cab whose driver was going to Bulandshahr. He was sitting on the front. The vehicle met with an accident just 15 minutes after coming on NH-24. The trolley was parked in such a way that it was obstructing the path.”
 
 Based on Safiq’s complaint, an FIR has been lodged against the unknown trolley driver under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.
 
 The police took Rashid’s body for postmortem.
 
 In another accident, a 32-year-old woman died near Om Sai Farmhouse at Lal Kuan around 9.15am. The woman identified as Sudha, was crushed under the wheels of a   bearing a Nepal registration number after she fell off a motorcycle she was riding pillion with her   Satendra Yadav. The bus driver fled after the accident.
 
 Santram Yadav, Sudha’s brother-in-law, said, “They were going to a private school in Pandav Nagar for a parent-teacher meeting where their three children study. The bus driver first hit the   and then crushed Sudha under the wheels of the bus. Satendra survived with injuries on his hand.”
 
 Following the accident, a large number of locals gheraoed the bus in which around 30 citizens from Nepal were travelling. In the meantime, police also reached the accident spot and took the bus in custody.
 
 Tulsi Thapa, one of the passengers, informed that the group had hired the bus from a travel agency in Nepal and had come to Delhi for a week-long visit. 
 
 The bus had left from Delhi to Butwal in Nepal on Saturday around 8am, Thapa added.
 
 The bus driver has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC.
 
 
