Instead of fretting over their deadlines and other work stress, a bunch of Mumbaikars are rolling up their sleeves and laughing hard. We’re not kidding. It’s the latest mantra that offices have taken up to battle workplace pressure and anxiety. In an age of layoffs and job insecurities, is this 45-minute reboot session the new social nourishment? These Mumbaikars seem to think so… 
	
	 





 Corporate manager Johnson Jacob thinks that a laughter session is just what the doctor ordered. “When I came to work on Friday, I was quite preoccupied about certain deliverables that needed to be done before the weekend. However, I still chose to attend a laughter session being conducted at work and before I knew it, I was having such a blast. We have a room in the office where we brainstorm, where we ended up throwing balls at each other and exchanging high fives. The laughter was so therapeutic that I forgot about the workload,” he admits. Like him, a large section of employees in the city are increasingly participating in laughter sessions. They sessions aim to bust anxiety and boost productivity at workplaces. Snehashish Mitra, who works at an IT consulting firm at Andheri, reveals that they plan to have the laughter session as an inaugural activity when they move into their new office premises in June. He says, “The laughter club at work is motivating to everyone. Ours is a 9-to-6 workday pattern with usually no time to even talk. So, we have a ‘laugh out loud’ sessions on a ‘Fundoo Friday’, which helped us regain energies to get back into work mode.” 
	
	 





 Organisations now have a member sharing a similar title as the CEOs, but with a twist! “Chief Happiness Officer - that’s my designation," grins Bansi Raja of a marketing company in Andheri. She’s got the task of making sure her team stays content and cheerful at work with impromptu laughter sessions and other activities. “It’s only when the team is having fun that they give the best work. And happy employees mean happy clients,” she says, adding that the sessions have had definite benefits. “For one, it has shown up on the attrition rate, which is low. Last week we had ‘pyjama day at work’, where everyone was in their jammies and it got them feeling at ease. When this happens, you start to share each other’s comfort zones and builds a great camaraderie with colleagues. I believe that 'those who laugh together, grow together'.” A tech company in Chandivali has a 'people success department', which has found that proactive measure works for success more than a reactive one. Says its Happiness Officer Kaushal Pawar, “People work for three reasons — economic, social and psychological; so we conducted activities that takes care of all three. We hold sports events as well as group meet-ups on the importance of laughing and employees have said that it left them completely rejuvenated.”  
	
	 





 They don’t call laughter contagious for nothing. Somit Doshi, who has been conducting laughter sessions across offices in Mumbai, says that even a tiny spark can have people rolling. “Offices are uptight places, so we often have a pre-event buildup to get people in the mood. Quirky games like ‘The Missing Underpants of Superman’ help trigger laughter. Employees make a storyboard out of the game — it’s hilarious as they have to fabricate things and take pictures. In another task, we ask them to make a comedy movie with special cameras, software and props,” he reveals. They have more tricks to help stressed-out folks.  Somit adds, “When you try to simulate laughter, you first need to loosen up physically. The ‘three postures’ method works well here — they are wacko poses that the employees need to mime or copy. In seconds, people break into smiles while doing that. Since laughter is contagious, the room breaks into peals of laughter.”  For the real non-simulated laughter session, it’s a more mindful method. “We tell people, ‘Just shut down your mind and breathe. Think of something funny and allow your laughter to come out’. The concept is so successful that many people even end up saying that they have never laughed like that in their lives. In workplaces, where sometimes even a smile is not real, such open unbridled laughter makes for a lovely change,” he says.   
	
	 





 Some companies have started multi-activities like bring-your-pet-to-work days or a potluck. A marketing company at Lower Parel held a ‘movie night’ yesterday. Says Saba Vakani, who works there, “We do quarterly movie nights in our seminar room. Everyone gets specially-printed movie tickets and we have a pizza party after that, too. It's fun.” 