NEW DELHI: Swedish coach   has been with the Indian boxers for just over a year now. Nieva was brought in to replace the much-respected, Dronacharya award-winning foreign coach   who worked with the Indians for nearly two decades. Since then, Nieva has risen to the position of high performance director with the   ( ), and is the overall in-charge of both the men’s and women’s teams.

 
 
 
 The promotion has not been without reason as the results and medals have followed. Last month’s Gold Coast   was definitely the high point as the Indian contingent came back with nine medals, including three gold. The next major assignment will be the 18th Asian Games which get underway in Jakarta on August 18.
 
 
 
 India will be competing in the 49kg, 52kg, 56kg, 60kg, 64kg, 69kg and 75kg men’s categories while the women will feature in 51kg, 57kg and 60kg. Both the men’s and women’s boxers are now off to the respective offshore camps in Ireland and Assisi (Italy), respectively.
 
 Himanshu Sharma (49 kg), CWG gold medallist Gaurav Solanki and Salman Sheikh (both 52 kg), Madan Lal (56 kg), Ankush Dahiya (60 kg), Dheeraj Kumar and Ashish (both 64 kg), Duryodhan Negi (69 kg), Mandeep Jangra (75 kg), Sanjeet (91 kg), Manish Pawar (81 kg) and Parveen Kumar (+91 kg) will be flying to the Irish   Association’s high performance centre. “The boxers who don’t feature in the TOP (Target Olympic Podium) scheme will be travelling to Ireland. The other boxers in these weight categories will take part in President’s Cup in Kazakhstan, Umakhanov memorial tournament in Russia and other tournaments in Mongolia and Germany,: Nieva told TOI ahead of his departure for Ireland.
 
 “Majority of the CWG medallists will be travelling for the tournament in Germany. Once we come back from these exposure tours and tournaments, the final squad for the Asiad should be clear,” Nieva added.
 
 Nieva believes the Indian boxers have made rapid strides technically. “The boys are handling the bouts a lot better, getting into good offensive positions and cutting off the ring well. They are avoiding getting into clinch positions, balance is a lot better and closing out bouts well,” the coach said.
 
 
