RANCHI: City resident will now get quality and hygienic meat which would be checked by veterinarians before the animals are slaughtered with inauguration of the slaughterhouse in   on Sunday by mayor  .. 

 After the inauguration, Lakra said, "Goats will be slaughtered here. The animals will be checked thoroughly by veterinarians, who have already been appointed for the purpose."
 
 The slaughterhouse has been constructed with a budget of over Rs 15 crore and has a capacity of slaughtering 1,000 animals in a day - 500 with 'jhatka' and another 500 with 'halal' processes.
 
 The inauguration of slaughterhouse was pending for a duration as no company was ready to operate it, despite the tender being floated thrice by the Ranchi Municipal Corporation.
 
 After the fourth tender, an Uttar Pradesh-based private company,  , has been selected to operate the slaughterhouse, the construction of which began in 2016.
 
 The company has been appointed on a trial basis for three months. A fee of Rs 100 will be charged for slaughtering one animal of which 15% will go to the RMC while the remaining would be kept by the company.
 
  officer of RMC, Dr  , said to ensure that clean and hygienic meat and that it is not tampered with after the slaughter, chiller vans will also put to use by the company. These vans will deliver the processed and packaged meat to shops.
 
 At present, five model meat shops have been constructed across the city at Morhabadi, Madhukam, Kantatoli, Booty More and Namkom where the processed meat will be sold.
 
 Now that the slaughterhouse is functional, all meat shops across the city will be shut down if they do not have a licence.
 
 "We have issued licence only to chicken and fish shops and all other meat shops in the city are running illegally. Earlier, we could not do much about them as we did not have an alternative but we will be strict now," Dr   said. A meeting will be conducted on Monday following which a notice will be published in the local newspapers directing all meat vendors to apply for a licence.
 
 "Only those meat vendors who have a permanent construction and a deep freezer would be given the licence. Once we start issuing the licence, we will start a crackdown on the illegal vendors," the health officer said.
 
 
