 may have found her Mr Right in beau DJ  , but marriage is not on her mind. “I am scared and hence keep postponing it,” she says. Delnaaz and   started off as friends and have been together for five years. Delnaaz, who was earlier married to actor  , says that some kind of fear has kept her away from commitment. “There’s probably lot of hurt and emotional disturbance and I don’t trust my own destiny. I fear that if I seal this relationship and make it official, it will break and I will lose Percy. I don’t want that to happen,” she says. 
The actress adds, “People might say I am old-fashioned, but divorce was never in my dictionary. I used to be surprised when anyone got divorced, but then it happened to me. That is the time when I realised that one should never judge people.” Talking about the positive change that has come about in her life, she says, “I am now a changed person; one fine day, I just decided to stop thinking about what the world had to say, and I stopped doing things to please people. I have realised that if you want to be happy from within, you need to live for yourself.”
 Earlier, the fact that Percy was ten years younger than her used to bother her, but not anymore. “It used to play on my mind, but now, I don’t think about it. Percy is very mature and the age gap makes no difference to either of us. Living-in without marriage was a no-no for me earlier, but I don’t think that way anymore. Percy and I are living in and we are happy.”
 So, does she hope to get over her fear of marriage some day? “I don’t know. We both are in a happy space now and I might just want to get married to Percy tomorrow or we might do it when I am 70! It doesn’t matter.”
 Till then, she’s certain that Percy will keep trying to change her mind. “Percy has never forced me into anything, but he keeps proposing,” she laughs, adding, “He understands the way I feel, as he too, has gone through a divorce. Our families are okay with whatever we decide. Of course, they would be happier if we legalised our relationship. Percy’s family doesn’t treat me like his girlfriend, they give me the same respect they would give his wife.”
 Meanwhile on the work front, Delnaaz, who’s currently seen in the TV show ' ', is also doing theatre. “I have never been out of work in my career, but now, I’m looking for different kinds of roles,” signs off the actress. 
  
  
 
