KOLKATA: Around a fourth of critically ill patients, including terminally ill cancer patients, eventually reach a stage where they can’t be revived, say experts. But treatment has to be continued, prolonging the agony of the patients which also results in a serious financial burden for the family. The choice to opt out of life-support through a living will could not only save many from end-of-life suffering, but also prevent families from exhausting their resources on a patient who has no practical chance of survival, pointed out medics. But hospitals and doctors, while welcoming the   verdict, also warned that every case has to be assessed and the final decision should rest on a body of experts that must include a lawyer and a social activist, apart from doctors.

 “The decision is a humanitarian one that will save work in favour of both patients and their families. As the head of a cancer hospital, I come across numerous such cases where the patient has no chance of survival and is barely conscious, after having gone through a prolonged period of extreme pain, but we have no choice but to keep him alive. Often, patients who are in extreme pain, plead with us to withdraw life-support or stop treatment so that they can die which is heart-wrenching. These patients can now be relieved of that trauma,” said Arnab  , medical director of  .
 
 But he warned that without a strict vigil,   could be misused. “It has to be scrutinised at two points. First, when the living will is being made. It must be ensured that the person involved is not under duress. Secondly, an expert committee has to verify all the details before life-support is allowed to be taken off or treatment withdrawn. And a lawyer should definitely be there as a member,” said Guha Thakurta.
 
 Critical care expert Aviral Roy also expressed his opinion in favour of passive euthanasia. “The medical board entrusted to take the final call must include a psychiatrist, a neurologist, a medicine expert and a doctor from the particular field of medicine under which the patient was being treated. Preferably, we must also have a medical administrator to rule out the chances of foul play,” said Roy, he, however, felt that the decision to allow passive euthanasia was a correct one for all individuals had complete right over their bodies and should be allowed the chance to cut short their suffering.
 
