NAGPUR: “Mere talent and hard work do not necessarily make a champion in any sport. Apart from these, what is necessary is a fierce ambition and a personal goal to try and be the best,” said former India cricketer Prashant Vaidya. He was addressing a distinguished gathering at the 5th Annual MM   Awards function here on Saturday.

 
 Vaidya, who is also the VCA vice-president, drew upon his wealth of experience to advice young and promising sportspersons how they should shape their talent into a winning form. Apart from how they should go about to try and excel in their respective field, he also stressed upon the need to play the game in the right spirit.
 
 “Aggression does not mean going over the top with wild celebrations or using verbal volleys. Rather it can also be expressed through good and gritty performances,” said Vaidya.
 
 In his welcome address, Prasad Shetty, a former Vidarbha cricketer and president of the Shetty Sports Foundation, said he was very happy to be doing his bit for the young and upcoming players of Vidarbha. Apart from helping sportspersons, he said, his foundation has also set up a fund of Rs 5 lakh annually to help the poor and needy get medical treatment.
 
 Raju Pankule, former Vidarbha cricketer, was also feted on the occasion.   secretary Sunil Hande was also feted for his contribution in volleyball.
 
 The programme was conducted by Atmaram Pande, a former Shiv Chhatrapati Award winner who is also the secretary of the Shetty Sports Foundation. Also present on the occasion were Savitha Shetty, Sanjiv Sahu, Suhas Phadkar, Raju Bawa, Shravan Jejani, Prakash Baghal, Anil Wadpalliwar and  .
 
 Following is the list of prize winners
 
 Danish Malewar, Mohd Faiz, Rohit Binkar, Harshit Pahune, Harsh Dubey, Aryan Shelokar, Neel Athle, Mrutunjay Thakur, Ganesh Bhosle, Tejas Soni, Shreyas Joshi and Jasraj Singh Jolly (all cricket); Sai Bhoyar (tennis), Nikkita Joseph (badminton), Kanchanmala Pande, Rishika Bodele (swimming), Poonam Kadao (handball),   (volleyball), Geetal Sonekar (athletics), Dilip Thool (groundsman).
 
 
