SURAT: In a noble gesture, a man from Sabarkantha district saved a 21-year-old tribal woman from Surat district who was sold for Rs 1 lakh and  .

 The woman Nisha Vasava from Zarpan village near Umarpada was allegedly sold, abducted and later taken to Sabarkantha by a group of people including her friend Juliyesh Vasava who fleeced her with a promise of marriage. In August last year, she was cheated into marrying  , a resident of Mordungra village in Sabarkantha. 
 
 However, when she informed Makwana about the abduction and forcible marriage, he dropped her back to her native village after six months of marriage in April this year. In fact, after his gesture, Nisha is now willing to stay with Makwana as his wife, said VN Tadvi, police inspector, Umarpada.
 
 Nisha named Juliyesh, a resident of   near Mandvi, Ashok, a resident of Bhutbheda in Dediyapada of Narmada district, two women - Maya and Rani and Sanjay, all three residents of Dharapur near  . The accused were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including section 365 (abducting with intent to wrongfully confine a person) and section 366 (abducting woman to compel her for marriage).
 
 In August last year, Nisha came to come to stay with her friend, who was a nurse in Surat. She had come in search of work but failed to find any job after staying for a week. Juliyesh used to call her often over her mobile phone and asked her to come to stay with him and promised to marry her too.
 
 After few days, Ashok came to pick up Nisha and took her to Bhutbheda village of Dediyapada in Narmada where Juliyesh also came to meet her. Nisha then went to stay at her aunt’s place for two days and later Juliyesh took her to stay with him. After she stayed with Juliyesh for five days in Karanjwan, he left home saying that he was going for some work. 
 
 After few days, Ashok again came to pick her saying that he would take her to Juliyesh in Surat. After keeping her with a woman in the city, she was taken to Ahmedabad in a train promising to unit with Juliyesh. They later took her at Rani’s house in Dharapur village from where she was forced to get married to Makwana. However, when she described to him how she cheated and forced to get married, Makwana decided to drop her at the village.
 
 “Police have started searching for all the accused named by the woman. Once arrested, they will be questioned if they had committed similar crimes in past with some other woman,” said Tadvi.
 
 Sources said that paying for a bride is custom often seen among certain communities in north   who get tribal women to marry their sons.
 
 
