NEW DELHI: A probe has revealed that the   which crashed into the wall of Azadpur bus terminal early on Monday resulting in the death of a   and her friend getting seriously injured was being driven at over 100 kmph. The woman, an IT professional, died due to internal injuries despite the airbags deploying after the collision.

 The deceased has been identified as Rythima (22) and her friend as Rohan Khurana, DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said. Khurana is in a critical condition and was shifted to a private hospital from Sushrut Trauma Centre by his family on Monday evening. Analysis of their blood samples revealed presence of alcohol, but police said the levels would be clear only from the medico-legal case report.
 
 The duo had gone to attend a friend’s birthday party in Mukherjee Nagar on Sunday evening. They stayed there till early on Monday and headed out at 4.20am. Khurana was driving the black Chevrolet Cruz (DL 10CB 3575), which is registered in his name. They started going towards Azadpur to drop Rhythima at her house in Paschim Vihar. They decided to get something to eat and started looking for a food outlet.
 
 As they reached Azadpur roundabout, Khurana tried to turn, but as the car was at a high speed it went off the road and hit the wall of the bus terminal head-on. The front portion of the car was completely destroyed in the collision. Although the airbags were deployed, the woman seated on the front passenger seat suffered injuries to her head and other internal organs. Khurana got fractures in both his legs, apart from other injuries.
 
 A passerby noticed the accident and alerted police, who took the duo to Sushrut Trauma Centre. The woman was declared brought dead, while Khurana was admitted in an unconscious state.
 
 The woman was a Delhi University graduate and had been working at an IT firm based in Jhandewalan in central Delhi. Her father is a businessman in Paschim Vihar. Khurana, who runs a used car business in Tagore Garden, is yet to give his statement to police.
 
 A case under IPC sections of dangerous driving, causing death due to negligence and causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others has been registered. Police are questioning the duo’s friends. CCTV footage is being analysed to ascertain the sequence of events.
 
 
