HYDERABAD: In the wake of 14 private schools from Hyderabad district being found operating with bogus extension recognitions (ETR), officials of the state education department have now decided to upload the entire list of recognised schools on its official website, before the onset of the new academic year.

 Confirming this, the district education officer ( ) of Hyderabad, B  , said that higher officials have already instructed her to prepare the consolidated data, which will be available online by May-end. “Starting from the 2018-19 academic year, the list of schools that have been issued ETR from Hyderabad will be available online so that parents can check details before admitting their wards,” said Narasamma, adding that there are more than 3,000 schools in the district of which 684 are government schools.
 
 The DEO said that a criminal case has already been filed against 14 schools, most of which are located in the   or Charminar area, and eight officials from the department for their involvement in the bogus ETR issue. The case is being investigated by the Central Crime Station, Hyderabad, she added.
 
 Reacting to the stance taken by deputy district education officers and deputy inspection officers (DyEO/Dy-IOS) who publicly blamed senior officials from the department for the bogus ETRs issue, higher officials said that the department will initiate disciplinary action against them as they had not sought any required permission before approaching the media on the matter. They could also face suspension for the mistake, officials warned.
 
 “All the DyEO/DyIOS are in the respective positions for more than six years now. Why have they been silent until now? Why are they talking about procedural lapses at a point when this has become a major issue? Had they been a little alert and brought the discrepancies to our notice, the issue of bogus ETRs could have been stopped. They can’t just throw mud on other officials when it was their responsibility to send a proposal,” said S Vijaya Lakshmi Bai, Regional Joint Director ( ), education department adding that action will be initiated against them for approaching media as it is against the civil services (conduct) rules.
 
 Officials said that DyEO/ DyIOS cannot put the blame on DEOs or RJDs for the issuance of these fake certificates as it was their duty to physically inspect the schools and send a proposal about whether or not to sanction ETRs to aparticular school.
 
 “As field officers, they have the powers to reject a proposal if, during enquiry, they find that a school is not abiding by the regulations of the board. Instead of doing that, why are they forwarding the proposal to the DEO or RJD and blaming us for the approvals,” questioned the DEO.
 
 
