Chandigarh: A district   disputes redressel forum has directed DTDC Express and AS Associates to pay Rs 6,100 to a Chandigarh resident for losing a consignment sent by him.

 The complainant, SR Saini, a resident of Sector 49, said that he had availed the services for sending two articles -- a hard-disc and a power bank -- to his son in Kolkata on October 18, 2016 and paid Rs 260 as courier charges.
 
 Upon enquiry, the complainant was informed that his consignment did not reach the consignee (his son) and that the sent package was not traceable and remained undelivered.
 
 Alleging deficiency in the services and unfair trade practice, the complainant filed an instant complaint.
 
 In a written statement, the DTDC authorities admitted that a sum of Rs 260 was charged. The company stated that the complainant did not mention on the parcel that it contained a hard-disc and a power bank as per the policy of the company. It was also pleaded that the complainant did not insure the articles tha were to be sent as per the rules and regulations of the company.
 
 The company also pleaded that as per its policy, the liability was restricted to Rs 100 only. In a separate written statement, AS Associates put similarobjections.
 
 After hearing both the sides, the forum said that if the parcel had valuable articles as alleged, it was the duty of the consigner to declare the contents and the value of the articles, or to get the same insured before sending the same to the consignee.
 
 “Hence, in the absence of such a declaration, to our mind, from the self-serving affidavit, furnished by the complainant, it is not proved that the parcel contained the articles as alleged in the complaint. However, it is an admitted fact between the parties that the said consignment was lost in transit. This fact was also evident from an e-mail sent to the complainant by January 6, 2017,” the forum said.
 
 Stating that the complainant had neither mentioned the contents nor its value on the consignment, the forum said that he was not entitled to Rs 4,407 as claimed. However, the forum directed the companies to pay to the complainant the liability, which was restricted to Rs 100 as stated by DTDC and AS Associates in their written statement.
 
 Acknowledging that due to non-delivery of the consignment to his son, the complainant had suffered mental agony and harassment, the forum said that he was entitled to a reasonable compensation on this count. Hence, it directed DTDC and AS associates to pay Rs 3,500 as compensation for mental agony and physical harassment and Rs 2,500 as litigation expenses.
 
 
