Actor  , known for shows like ' ' and 'Doli Armaano Ki,' always has a lot to look forward to, on her every visit to Banaras. "As both my in-laws hail from the city, I am in a way Banaras ki bahu. My father-in-law migrated to Patna several decades ago but the extended family still stays in Banaras and so is the case with my mother-in-law. She belongs to the renowned Ratnakar family of Banaras who have their ancestral home in  . So connecting with my extended family is something which I just love doing as it is a lot of fun. Then Banaras has a lot to offer, which I make sure to savour every time I am here. Gorging on the delicious chaat, lassi, enjoying the mouth-melting paan, chai-toast and visiting the eateries on the ghat, is a must do for me on my every visit. Going to the ghat and enjoying the Ganga arti is something I rarely miss while in Banaras," said the pretty actor, who was in Varanasi as guest of honour for a fashion show.
Neha, who took a brief hiatus from work post her marriage, has begun working on a new TV show. But Neha is quick to add that 'Muskan', which she was supposed to act in, is no longer her comeback show. "Though I had signed the MOU and was looking forward for the show to begin but there were certain clauses in the contract which were not working in my favour. So I don’t think I am doing the show anymore," she informed. 
 Neha can now be seen as Bela in Sooraj Barjatya’s 'Piyaa Albela'. Talking about the show, Neha said, "I take long breaks after every daily soap since I can afford to be selective. I was looking for a lead role, but bagging any role in a   show is like a dream come true."
 An actress to reckon with, Neha believes that TV has undergone a lot of change since the last three years when she did her last show. "Content wise I see a lot of change. Earlier the content of the shows was quite far fetched. Characters used to reappear even after dying on screen but now this is not happening much on TV which is getting closer to reality. I am happy several shows are coming up that are based on real characters and with which the audience can connect. Women characters are no longer waking up in shows with full make up on, which is a refreshing change. Personally, as an artist, I feel it is my responsibility to support this change. Even if I am paid a bomb I will not do a show where I am just supposed to look beautiful. Rather I will take up projects in which, even if I am made to look like a ghati gaonwali but my character is grounded and closer to reality. I have the liberty to choose my characters now that I am married. Now I am not working to survive but for my passion."
 Apart from her acting assignments, Neha is really looking forward to opening an academy dedicated to various art forms in Patna. "The concept is if Patna cannot go to Mumbai then Mumbai can come to Patna. We will get kids ready to go to Mumbai by prepping them to face the camera, get them through the reality shows etc. I want  's to feel proud of their origin. I’ve seen, even in my circle, people who hail from Bihar are hesitant to acknowledge their roots. Now that I married in Patna, it is my duty to make kids from that region to be proud of their origin. They are a talented lot and they should get their due," she said.
 While on the personal front Neha is in a happy state. “Like with everybody else, life changes after marriage so it has happened with me. But I am lucky that my in-laws are very understanding. They would not like it if I am not working and just chilling out at home, rather they want me to live my passion. They believe in doing what you are born to do. Shaadi ke baad zindagi rukti nahi hai par ek nayi zindagi shuru hoti. They just don’t want me to settle down at home but to follow my passion," she said.
 Though married for quite some time now, motherhood is not something happening in the near future for the actress. "The want is always there but as of now I need more time to settle in my head as motherhood is a responsibility. Like every girl, I also want to be a mother. My aim in life is to become a successful mother," she said. 
  
  
 
 — with inputs by — Neha.Maheshwri@timesgroup.com
 
 
