KOLKATA: A three-storey building deep inside   looked desolate, even as there was a group of local residents huddled around it, looking deeply worried. On the narrow lane leading up to this house were hundreds of 20-litre plastic water jars. A little way off, smaller 1-litre and half-litre bottles — neatly packed and sealed — lie neglected, a gunny bag hurriedly pulled over them.

 Just 24 hours ago, on Tuesday afternoon, a joint team of the Kolkata Municipal Corporation ( ) and Kolkata Police’s Enforcement Branch (EB) had raided this house, alleging the “water-manufacturing” unit was selling tap water as packaged drinking water. Since then, the facility has been shut.
 
 Residents of this area, deep in the heart of the enteric zone, though, make a much more serious allegation: they say the water they filled up was sourced from the adjoining pond and being sold without proper treatment. If what they claim is true, there is a high chance that residents of the Kasba-Anandapur-Garfa zone were buying and drinking this water, thinking it safe.
 
 
  
 TOI was the first to visit this facility on Wednesday. We found two different addresses on the labels — one saying its operates from  , and another saying Ripon Street. Two telephone num bers were provided. We called up one number, enquiring if drinking water can be supplied to our office. “We supply only pure water. Tell me where your office is located,” said the man at the other end. On being told it was in Kasba, he wanted to know the office name. His confident tone changed immediately when he came to know it was a media organization. “Our Kasba unit is shut now, but that has nothing to do with any raid. We do not supply water there any more,” he said. “We will contact you when the situation changes,” he added hurriedly before hanging up.
 Locals said the unit had been operating for the past six years. “We usually bought the water jars. Initially, we were paying Rs 20 for 20 litres of water. Of late, he had been charging Rs 25 for 20 litres. He charged between Rs 5 and Rs 8 for each litre of packaged bottle in the past year,” recalled Saikat Jana, a local resident.  , who runs a local tea stall, claimed she often saw workers filling up buckets of pond water. “I cannot believe we never questioned how the unit managed to survive on so little profits if, indeed, the water was treated,” she said.
 
 A KMC officer confirmed everyone’s worst fears. “The raids have revealed that most of the manufacturing units were running illegally,” an officer said.
 
 The business follows a simple pattern. “Each unit is usually located near tubewells or waterbodies. The owners draw ground water, treat it with alum, pour it into containers, stick labels on the bottles and send those to the market. Most of the factories are in alleys, away from thoroughfares and public glare,” said a source. The preferred areas of operations match the enteric zones, claimed EB officials. “Chowbhaga, Topsia, Kasba, Rajdanga, Kidderpore and Bansdroni are the prefered areas. Packaged drinking water has become a big business with lots of factories coming up on the fringes, including Sonarpur, Narendrapur, Belgharia and Sodepur,” claimed an official.
 
 The five EB-KMC teams that carried out raids in the past 48 hours visited another facility at Chowbhaga off Bantala Road. TOI visited this facility too. “The cops came here at 2.30pm on Tuesday. They picked up two people for questioning,” said a local. When we reached the spot, there was nothing left to suggest it was a purified water unit. “They removed the set-up in hours. You can still see the pipes, one that connects to a pond, the other to a tap,” said Md Ashraf, a local resident. Locals here were cagey. “We don’t want any trouble. The people running the show are powerful,” one resident said.
 The raids have laid bare the fact that these dubious units are thriving so close to the city even as the authorities are caught napping. Ten samples of packaged drinking water have been sent for lab tests. “We are extremely worried.... We need to fight against the sale of spurious packaged drinking water. We can’t play with public health,” said mayor  .
 
  
 
