PATNA: Chief minister   on Sunday said he would request the Union government for additional funds to develop a state-of-the-art campus of   (NIT) Patna having intake capacity of 6,000 students. The NIT was earlier known as Bihar College of Engineering (BEC). 

 Addressing the BCE-NIT alumni annual meet, the CM said Union government had already provided Rs500 crore for construction of the NIT-P campus on 125-acre plot in Bihta. “As the alumni of this institute, I have asked the director to take NIT-P to new heights. I want to see the institute on the top of the NITs’ list in the country. The state government will extend all possible help to the institute in future as well,” he said.
 
 “During our time, the college had its capacity to accommodate only 500 students. Now it accommodates 3,500 students,” said Nitish, who is also the alumnus of BCE’s 1972 batch. The CM also inaugurated the health centre-cum-academic block of the institute on the occasion.
 
 Talking about the receding flow of the Ganga, the CM highlighted the growing silt deposit in the river due to Farakka barrage and resultant floods in the state every year. “I have grown in Bakhtiyarpur area on the bank of Ganga and studied in this institute which is also on the bank of the same river. In our recess, I used to sit near Ganga Ghat and watch the mighty river. That’s why I have been raising concern over the silt deposit from different platforms,” he said and asked the students and professors to study the water flow and siltation problem in the Ganga and come up with a solution. He also expressed his desire to interact with the students of the institute and most important to hear their views.
 
 The CM also felicitated the guest of honour of the event and Padma Shri Manas Bihari Verma, a 1965 batch alumnus besides those of diamond (1968), golden (1958) and silver (1993) batches.
 
 Nitish also felicitated the passout toppers of 2017 batch — Ayush Pathak (mechanical engineering), Ajmal PS (bachelor of architecture), Anikesh Kumar (electrical engineering), Deepak Kumar (civil engineering), Shivaji Kant (electronics engineering), Dasari Yashwant (computer science engineering) and Shweta Mani (IT).
 
 The programme was organized by the BCE-NIT Patna Alumni Society under the guidance of the institute director Prof PK Jain, president of the society, Ravi Shankar Sinha, and secretary Girish K Choudhary. The society also presented a cheque for Rs1.11 lakh to the CM for CM Relief Fund.
 
  director shared the development work and achievements of the institute. He also urged the alumni holding good positions in various companies and industries to help the students in job placement.
 
 The alumni also enjoyed games like musical chair, cricket and housie.
 
 
