KOLKATA: The entire residential complex of the Indian Maritime University ( ) on   gets flooded every day because water keeps gushing out of the   ( ) water-supply pipe’s air valves — located outside the residential quarters of the students. More than 1,000 students and 100 faculty members face this problem on a daily basis.

 
 The university administration, which is guided by ministry of shipping, has been fighting a losing battle to drain out stagnant water. The situation has worsened to such an extent that the only emergency medical unit located inside the residential complex has become inaccessible to the students.
 
  
  
 
 According to IMU director Eswara Arun  , breaches in the underground pipeline are to be blamed for the perennial problem. “It has become an uphill task to keep the institute open. Huge quantity of drinking water is getting mixed with sewerage water and flooding our campus premises, as well as the residential area every day,” the IMU director said.
 
 Kishore, who came to Kolkata from   last year, said his efforts to get rid of the problem had been in vain owing to non-cooperation from the state and civic administration. “I have written to the men in power in the state and civic administration. But all appeals have gone unheard so far,” he alleged. Kishore expressed apprehension that if steps were not taken to arrest the breaches in the pipeline, the campus might turn into a breeding ground for mosquitoes.
 
 Avisit to the IMU premises revealed a pathetic scene. The entire campus and the residential quarters of the students and faculty members remained inaccessible due to waterlogging. A closer look revealed that much of the water was stagnant and had begun to stink.
 
 When asked, a senior official of the KMC water supply department conceded that the waterlogging problem existed on the IMU campus. However, he attributed it to the non-existent drainage lines in the locality. The official refused to admit that the water was gushing out of the pipelines due to breaches.
 
 “We have examined the pipelines very well and found no breaches. Water is getting leaked out of some air valves attached to the pipelines. This water is getting accumulated and going down to the IMU campus as the institute is located at a lower place than the road surface. As the sewerage lines are maintained by   authorities, we will soon talk to them to find a solution. Something needs to be done to set right the defunct drainage system, both outside and inside the IMU complex,” the official said.
 
 
 
 
