NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that in   and  ,   2018 table-toppers Chennai Super Kings have sent a strong message to opposition teams: no total is safe when you’re playing us. 

 
 
 
 
 In a thrilling IPL clash on Wednesday night at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium, an epic run chase from   saw the visitors home after AB de Villiers and Quinton de Kock propelled   to 205/8. Dhoni finished not out on 70 for 34 balls while Ambati Rayudu - promoted back to opener - hit eight sixes in his 82. Dhoni smashed the ball into the crowd seven times, including to seal the winning runs, in a match that racked up a record number of sixes.
 
 
 
 
 
 Writing in today’s TOI, Srikkanth, who was part of the CSK setup as an advisor a few seasons ago, felt that it was a startling reminder from Dhoni that he has plenty to offer at the age of 36. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “The knock by MS Dhoni against RCB should rank as one of the best he has played in the shortest format. Finishing the chase in his usual fashion is only expected but I was more impressed with the way he started. The body language was so positive from ball one that he believed he could go past the line without much hassle,” wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs.
 
 “I truly admire the fierce commitment of Dhoni. Looks like the man is on a mission and it will take something special from his opponents to stop his march. Add the form Ambati Rayudu is in and I don’t think any total posted against CSK looks safe enough.”
 
 Rayudu has enjoyed a bumper IPL 2018 for his new franchise, scoring a league-leading 283 runs in six matches at a strike-rate of 158.98. After scoring 22, 39, 49 and 12 opening the innings, Rayudu dropped down to No 4 in CSK’s match against Sunrisers Hyderabad on a tricky surface and smacked 79 off 37 balls to set up victory. Then came Wednesday’s 83 when back opening the innings. 
 
 Watching Rayudu and Dhoni bat, Srikkanth felt that it was a terrific combination for CSK. 
 
 “To win consistently in any format, a team needs partnerships and the Dhoni-Rayudu combo is just working too well. Sometimes when you are batting alone with a particular batsman, your game moves up a notch even without you realising. The two seem to be bringing out the best out of each other,” he wrote. 
 
 CSK next play defending champions Mumbai Indians in Pune on Saturday. 
 
 
