HYDERABAD: With the Enforcement Directorate (ED) defining the investments made by   of companies in firms owned by YSR Congress chief   as laundering of crime money, Penna group chairman Puttamreddy   and his associates were summoned by a special court in Hyderabad. 

 Pratap Reddy, along with Jagan, Jagan's auditor   and others are supposed to appear before the ED court in Hyderabad on March 16. 
 
 The ED, in its chargesheet filed in the Penna Cements episode of the Jagan assets case, described the scheduled offence mentioned by the CBI as the main offence that is doling out public assets like limestone mines, huge plots, and relax rules in respect of raising a five-star hotel in   in favour of Penna group and the Penna group's investments in Jagan companies as part of a quid pro quo arrangement.
 
 The ED tracked the journey of Rs 68 crore invested by Pratap Reddy and Penna group in Jagan firms through a corporate veil and concealing mode and described it as nothing but laundering of the proceeds of crime. 
 
 Like CBI, ED too described the Rs 68 crore as mere bribes for the benefits derived by Pratap Reddy from the YS Rajasekhara Reddy government between 2004 and 2009 and sought to unveil the corporate veil over these investments. 
 
 ED said its probe into laundering is still going on and sought permission from the court to file an additional chargesheet in the case. Jagathi Publications, Janani Infra, Indira Television, Carmel Asia, Penna Cements, Pioneer Holiday Resorts Ltd (of Penna Group), Penna Pratap Reddy along with Jagan and Vijay Sai were named as accused in the ED case. 
 
 ED has already attached huge amounts of land, portions of hotel structure, among others, under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA). Since Penna Cement Industries Ltd obtained these land parcels and other benefits by commissioning the scheduled offence, the benefits accrued to it fall under the definition of proceeds of crime, the ED said in its complaint.
 
 ED tracked the journey of Rs 68 crore invested by Pratap Reddy and Penna group in Jagan firms through a corporate veil and called it laundering of crime proceeds.
 
