 ( ) director general   was in Delhi for the informal mini-ministerial meeting organised by the government. After the meeting, he spoke about some of the global trade issues and challenges. Excerpts:

 
 
 There was announcement of measures on steel and aluminium and the announcement was not well taken on the part of other partners, particularly exporters of those products to the US to such an extent that these partners indicated that they could apply counter measures. What those counter measures would be and the extent of that is difficult to tell. Clearly, in other situations, if you look back in history, when you begin to have these kinds of tit-for-tat situations, it tends to escalate because you apply a restrictive measure that you believe is legitimate and justified and the other side responds with something… it goes on and on. Usually, this is not restricted to two. Others are affected either because of the chain of production in their countries is affected or for some other reason. And then when you begin to get more players and more measures, it’s difficult to know where you are going to end up.
 
 
 
 I am talking to them and trying to understand what their concerns are and whether there are ways to mitigate those concerns. More importantly, I have been telling them to be very careful with whatever they do to avoid a possible spiral of measures that could have domino effect. It will be a losing proposition for everyone. I have been telling everyone that they should think carefully and that if there are ways of avoiding this process from taking off, they should explore those things.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 I don’t want to get into a semantic discussion of what a trade war is. In general terms, a trade war is the kind of thing you know when you see it. I don’t think we are there yet. We haven’t seen measures or counter-measures automatically happening. It may come but we are not quite there yet. But there is a risk we will go down that path.
 
 
 
 
 WTO does not take stances. It is a forum where companies go and discuss and find solutions. The problem is not whether you follow domestic legislation. Every country follows domestic legislation. The question is whether the domestic legislation is consistent with the WTO disciplines. The only person who can tell you whether that consistency exists or does not exist is the WTO panel. A measure is presumed to be consistent until somebody challenges that.
 
 
 
 In Geneva (WTO headquarters), members are talking about roughly two types of ideas. One idea is how to solve the impasse and how to unblock the situation. Another set of ideas is on an alternative to what we have today. Those ideas are still being thrown about.
 
 
 
 We need to show flexibility. You have different types of flexibility. You have the flexibility of the kind you find in the trade facilitation agreements where developing countries decide which commitments you take immediately, where you need time to implement and which commitments do you need time and technical assistance. That’s very flexible compared to what we had before. You have flexibility in terms of which countries that participate. We have 164 countries, with different levels of development and with different trade policies. Some may be ready for a bigger step, others may not. So, the only way to have comfort and move forward is if everybody is reasonably certain that they don’t have to undertake things that they don’t want to.
 
 
 
 There was no proper attempt to have a breakthrough. It was just a conversation. Basically, testing if others would like to engage in a conversation if it goes in a particular direction. In general, the attitude was constructive. We heard people that we want to discuss Doha issues but we also want to discuss other issues that are important to us. Others were saying we want to have a conversation on Doha issues but we are not ready for conversation on other issues.
 
