
An action-thriller, 'Baaghi 2' (a sequel to the 2016 Sabbir Khan directorial, 'Baaghi'), directed by Ahmed Khan, has Tiger Shroff and Disha Patani in the lead roles. It also stars Manoj Bajpayee, Randeep Hooda and Prateik Babbar in pivotal roles.
 
 The album of six songs has two remakes. The first track, a peppy dance number, 'Mundiyan', sung by Navraj Hans and Palak Muchhal, has been recreated from the already remixed Panjabi MC version (1998), of the original by the late Labh Janjua. It is rather risky to create a remixed version of a song that has attained cult status and is still an earworm. But then, the music industry these days is all about such risks, with every second film in the industry going ahead and ‘re-creating’ an older popular number. This latest version that is touted to be a Punjabi tadka in a new avatar, has been on the Top 20 Mirchi   since the last three weeks now — quite evident that music lovers in the city are lending it a kind ear.
 
  Dixit’s iconic 'Ek Do Teen' was a Laxmikant Pyarelal-Javed Akhtar track, sung by the woman with the golden voice, Alka Yagnik. The remixed version by the talented Shreya Ghoshal is, however, not one of her best renditions. Parry G’s rap is catchy, and perhaps, the only thing in the song that is worth a mention. 
 
 This foot-tapping classic will remain popular, as the music hardly has anything new to it. And though Jacqueline Fernandez, with her perfectly toned abs, does a good job of gyrating to it, she lacks the innate charm and innocence that Madhuri personified in the 1988 song from ' ', and pulled off the original.
 
 Arko Pravo Mukherjee, who is known for tracks like 'Nazm Nazm' and 'Tere Sang Yara', has created 'O Saathi' — a slow, melodious love song that is similar to and reminds you of the 2008 Pritam hit, 'Pehli Nazar Mein' from Race. 'O Saathi' begins with Payal Dev’s classical prelude; Atif Aslam then takes over in his signature soulful style, resulting in the debut of the track in the Top 20 Mirchi Charts this week.
 
 Mithoon has composed a melancholic melody with 'Lo Safar', sung skilfully by Jubin Nautiyal. It’s a slow love song that grows on you. 
 
 The duet 'Soniye Dil Nayi', penned by Kumaar and composed by Gourov-Roshin, has been sung beautifully by   and Ankit Tiwari.
 
 Big Dhillon’s song 'Get Ready To Fight Again', with additional backup vocals by Anand Bhaskar, is a track that stays with you. With some good use of electronic dance music, this is ideal as the theme song. 
 
 
 
