COIMBATORE: An isolation ward with 20 beds has been set up in the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital ( ) to treat people with symptoms of   virus infection.

 According to CMCH dean B Asokan, patients from Kerala and bordering areas who report to the hospital with fever and headache would be first admitted to the isolation ward. “They will be shifted to the general ward only if they are tested negative for Nipah virus infection,” he said.
 
 As the death toll due to Nipah virus rose to 11 in Kerala on Tuesday, the   health department has urged the hospitals in the bordering districts of Coimbatore and Nilgiris to stay alert. Following this, CMCH formed an isolation ward. “Presently, we have 20 beds. If need arises, we will allocate more beds,” Asokan said, adding, “No case of Nipah infection has been detected in the district so far.”
 
 The virus was first identified in 1999 at Nipah in Malaysia. Thus, it was named after that place. Asokan said the symptoms of infection include high fever, severe headache and memory loss. “Severe cases will result in coma and subsequently death,” the CMCH dean added.
 
 Asokan said a team of doctors, led by a senior doctor from the medicine department, has also been formed to treat any suspected Nipah case. “The health department has provided us with the detection kits. The infected could only be given supportive treatment and we have the necessary medicines,” Asokan said.
 
 The virus, which reportedly spread to people from bats through fruits eaten by them, can also spread by way of droplet infection, said doctors. “Animals are the carriers of the virus. So, people should be careful while handling the animals. One should wash hands properly after touching animals such as dogs,” the CMCH dean further said.
 
 As there is a daily interaction and transport between Kerala and Tamil Nadu through Coimbatore, primary health centres on the border areas of Sarkarpathy, Walayar, Anaikatti and   have been put on alert, said the resident medical officer of CMCH, R Soundaravel. “As the virus is new to the region, all preventive measures are in place,” he added.
 
 
