AURANGABAD: Water scarcity in  , Phulambri and Sillod talukas of Aurangabad district has worsened and 186 tankers have been deployed here at the start of this week. 

 While the region as a whole has been receiving 225 water tankers, Aurangabad district accounts for most of them. A revenue department official said as many as 151 villages from Aurangabad district have become dependent on   till date.
 
 Gangapur taluka is the worst affected due to water scarcity, with nearly 65 villages being affected, followed by Phulambri (30), Sillod (20), Khultabad (12) and Aurangabad (8) among other talukas. “We expect water scarcity in these areas to escalate and necessary measures would be taken as and when needed,” he said.
 
 It may be noted that as many as 139 villages and hamlets from six talukas of Aurangabad district were supplied 143 tankers amidst peak monsoon season in August last year. 
 
 As per official data, Gangapur taluka had received only around 58.8% of normal rainfall by the end of July last year. The release of water from dams in Nashik and   districts located upstream of Jayakwadi dam during the second half of July last year served as a breather for some villages from Gangapur taluka. 
 
 Gangapur and other areas becoming dependant on water tankers, meanwhile, has again prompted activists and experts to oppose the proposed around 30% reservation of water stored in Darna group of dams. The group includes Mukne, Bhavli, Waki and Bham dams. A large group of activists and experts have already threatened that they would go on hunger strike to protest the proposed water reservation in upstream dams. 
 
 The issue has been also raised in the state legislature with a section of opposition leaders claiming that the proposed reservation would in turn lower the capacity of   canal by nearly 129 million cubic metres and further aggravate water scarcity in Gangapur and Vaijapur talukas.
 
 Among other districts of Marathwada, Jalna (18), Nanded (15) and Parbhani (6) have also reported demand for tankers in some pockets. However, four districts, namely, Latur, Beed, Hingoli and Osmanabad, have not witnessed start of water tankers so far.
 
 
