NEW DELHI: The   on Monday agreed to hear a petition seeking a court-monitored probe in the   question papers leak case.

 
 The   had previously said it would file a PIL for a high court-monitored investigation into the leak of the Class 12 Economics paper and Class 10 Mathematics paper.
 
 "The leaks have rocked the confidence of parents and students. Question is now being raised over the examination system being followed. We cannot allow this to happen and will be moving a petition in the Delhi High Court on Monday," president of the association and lawyer Ashok Agarwal told PTI on Friday.
 
 Agarwal said the petition will also seek a direction from the Delhi HC to the CBSE for liberal award of marks in the re-examinations.
 
 On Friday, the   had announced April 25 as the date of re-examination for the Class 12 Economics students. A decision on retest for Class 10 Maths exam will likely be held in July, though the board has stipulated that it will only be conducted in Delhi, NCR and  .
 
 The petition, moved by NGO Social Jurist, has sought that the Class 10 Maths exam be held in April, rather than July as proposed by the authorities.
 
 The leak of Class 10 Mathematics and Class 12 Economics papers has created a furore across the country, with students, parents and other stakeholders up in arms against the incident.
 
 Delhi Police's Crime Branch arrested three persons -- two teachers of a private school and a tutor at coaching centre -- for their allegedly leaking and circulating the Class 12 Economics question paper on Whatsapp. 
 
 Mother Khajani Convent School is also under the scanner for allegedly providing the two teachers the question papers around 9.10 am, 35 minutes before the stipulated time. This gave the two accused ample time to click pictures of the paper and send them to their friend and accomplice, the coaching centre tutor, who circulated them to a student.
 
 The police have also questioned the principal and five teachers of the school in connection with the case. They have not been given a clean chit, they said.
 
 Amid nationwide outrage over the papers leak, the HRD ministry on Sunday suspended one board official for being "lax in supervision" and also initiated an inquiry into the matter.
 
 Meanwhile, a number of students, who appeared for this year's CBSE class 12 exams, staged a protest in Kolkata over question paper leak and retests and alleged that the board was jeopardising their careers.
 
 Congress-backed students' body NSUI also held a demonstration outside in Delhi, alleging that office-bearers of the RSS-affiliated students' organisation ABVP were "caught leaking" 
 exam papers in Jharkhand.
 
 
 
 
