CHANDIGARH: The   would soon be CAT-IIIB compliant, allowing the aircraft to land even under 50-metre visibility. All stakeholders, including the Union ministry of civil aviation,   ( ) and the Airports Authority of India (AAI), have agreed for installation of the much-needed advance instrument landing system (ILS) at the airport.

 At present, an aircraft requires at least 350-metre visibility to land safely at the airport but due to climatic conditions of  , most of the flights at airport remains grounded from mid-December to mid-January. As per the proposal, the installation work would be undertaken by the agency appointed by the IAF and the entire cost/expenses on CAT-IIIB infrastructure shall be borne by the AAI.
 
 The main runway at the Chandigarh airport has two sides — runway 29 and runway 11. As per the proposal, runway-29 would remain CAT-II compliant, the runway-11 would be upgraded to CAT-IIIB.
 
 A formal statement regarding the installation of ILS (CAT-IIIB) was made before the   and Haryana high court on Friday by the agreement division of the Union ministry through assistant solicitor general of India Chetan Mittal during the resumed hearing of a petition related to facilities at the Chandigarh airport.
 
 Mittal told the court that a meeting was held on December 1, 2015, between the senior officials of the ministry, IAF, AAI and DGCA, in which AAI had projected that CAT-IIIB needs to be installed at Chandigarh airport. On this it was decided to conduct a joint study to check the feasibility of installing the advance ILS on runway.
 
 “Special committee formed for the purpose conducted a feasibility survey in March 2016, along with the officials of IAF and recommended for installation of ILS CAT-IIIB on Runway-11. Some obstructions were pointed out by the IAF authorities regarding the installation and the concerned authorities are working to remove that,” Mittal told the HC.
 
 Hearing this, division bench comprising Justice A K Mittal and Justice   asked the AAI to come up with the final plan regarding installation of the ILS-IIIB by April 5.
 
 Chief executive officer (CEO) Chandigarh International Airport Suneel Dutt said the advanced ILS was a benchmark of availability of multiple facilities at any airport and would certainly help in getting more domestic and international flights.
 
 The air force authorities, which controls the runway and the air traffic control (ATC) at the local airport, has planned to install ILS (CAT-II) under its Maintenance of Air Field Infrastructure (MAFI) project.
 
 CAT-II enables the flight to land only when visibility is up to 350 metres but in Chandigarh the visibility drops to 50 metres stalling flight operation in December and January every year.
 
 At present there are 28 flights, including three international flights, operating daily from the airport. In December-January, 5-10 flights remained cancelled, while 12-18 delayed every day. On some occasions, the flights were diverted to Delhi airport for landing after the poor visibility did not allow the pilots to land here.
 
 There was a long pending demand for installation of advance navigation aide. Even the Mohali Industry Association, which has filed a petition before the HC regarding poor facilities at the local airport, had also demanded before the HC for CAT-III compliant ILS.
 
 Recently the Punjab government had also written to the IAF chief Air Chief Marshal B S Dhanoa requesting him to install CAT-III instead of CAT-II.
 
 
