City educationists have many expectations from Arun Jaitley’s budget. They have reminded the FM that he had announced big institutions like AIIMS and NIPER for the city. Now, they expect that he should allocate more such prestigious institutions like National Institute of Design (NID) to the city to make it a global   hub.

 “We’re thankful to him for allocating institutions of national repute. However, there is hardly any progress after that, primarily due to funds shortage. NIPER hasn’t moved beyond land allotment in Kaldongri on Wardha Road after two years of announcement. While AIIMS work has just started after three years of its announcement in NDA’s first budget in 2014,” said joint director for technical education Gulabrao Thakre.
 
 The story of IIM, which is still operating from the rented premises, is no different, he points out. “When we finalized VNIT for setting up the premier B-school, it was decided that it would be moving to its permanent premises of 100 acres in Mihan. However, nothing has moved since then and it would now take at least five more years if construction starts now,” said Thakre.
 
 “We’ve demanded an Indian School of Mining in Chandrapur, like the one in Dhanbad, and a National Dairy Research Institute in Bhandara. While Chandrapur witnesses heavy mining activities, Bhandara is the largest producer of milk in Vidarbha. We even met union ministers concerned and handed over representations to them in this regard. We’ve also demanded Central Industrial Security Force’s training institute here, as the government was exploring options for it,” said Devendra Parekh, Vidarbha Economic Development (VED) Council president.
 
 Senior academician Dr Vedprakash Mishra firmly believes that the centre should introduce five-year plan for development of health care and medical education in the country. “My only fear is that institutions like AIIMS shouldn’t just be hypothetical imagination but should soon become a reality so that large number of patients from this part of the country should benefit. Even the GMCs should be developed on same level,” he said.
 
 The school education sector is most neglected, according to some experts, and the government needs to overhaul the system by infusing funds. “Every year, 6% of GDP funds are allocated to this sector, but hardly over 2.5% is spent. The schools, imparting education in vernacular languages, are facing most of the brunt, as the government don’t release the grants on time. Even specified funds are not released fully, which adversely affects the quality of education,” said Ashok Gavahankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers’ Association.
 
 Education wish list
 
 More institutions like NID, ISM & NDRI
 
 Expedite shifting of IIM & IIIT to permanent campuses
 
 Infuse funds for setting up & starting prestigious AIIMS
 
 Allocate funds for starting NIPER from Kaldongri
 
 Overhaul school education sector with more funds
 
 
