Lack of   space at most of the busy markets and crowded areas in   is causing a lot problem for people. As Regional Transport Officer Alok Kumar points out, “I have been working here for 25 years and there has been a steady increase in the number of registered vehicles in Doon. And the past one year has seen nearly a 40% increase in vehicles.” A growing number of cars mean the existing parking spaces in the city are falling woefully short. This, Doonites say, is one main reason why they are left with no other option than parking their vehicles at no- parking zones.

  
  PARKING WOES: Unauthorised parking near Clock Tower
 
 
 
 Inadequate parking spaces compel people to park their cars and two-wheelers at   zones. “There are a few places in town where we issue around 20 challans every day because people park their vehicles in no-parking areas. Illegal parking also affects the  , often leading to  ,” says Amar Singh, a   officer at Dilaram Chowk.
 Shobhit Verma, a jewellery shop owner from Dharampur, says, “It’s really difficult to find parking space in the city these days, especially in places like the RTO. Whenever I have work there, it becomes a task to find parking space. At times, I come back home when I don’t find parking, only to go back later. It can be really tiring.” He adds, “When I am in a hurry, I park at no-parking zones and often, end up paying challans.”
 
  
  Let me take out my bike!: Youngsters fight over parking space
 
 
 
 Gauri Singh, a homemaker and a resident of Dalanwala, says, “I take my two-wheeler to drop my kid to school at Astley Hall as there isn't enough parking space there. First, it is difficult to find a space for a car and even when you manage to find one, in a few minutes, you find a number of cars blocking your way.”
 
  
  Unauthorised parking spot near a mall on  
 
 
 
 While most people would have two-wheelers earlier, the number of four-wheelers has gone up in the recent past. Jatin Aggarwal, owner of a vehicle showroom, says, “Availability of easy loans and opening of a number of car showrooms in the city have triggered vehicle sale in Doon, which has created scarcity of parking spaces. These days, it is easier to get a vehicle than to find a parking place for it.”
 
  
  Many Doonites prefer taking out their two-wheelers as there’s no parking space for cars
 
 
 
 Deep Dimri, a resident of Doon Vihar, says “We need to think twice before taking our cars out because we never get a proper parking space. Rather than traffic jams, we worry about finding parking space. Only after a lot of calculations and figuring out what are the least busy hours, we think of taking out our car.”
 
  
  Convent Road
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, areas outside the malls often get choked because people, often not wanting to shell out Rs 30-40 in parking fee, park their vehicles at no-parking zones. “Now that I go to Pacific Mall every day, I don't feel like paying parking fee daily. So irrespective of the sign boards, I park at no-parking zones,” says Upendra, a pharmacy student from city. But isn't that illegal? “So what, everyone does the same!” he quips.
 
 --Mansi Chaturvedi
 
