PATNA: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the closure of three   power projects due to technical and financial unviability. It also cancelled the two proposed hydroelectric projects due to unavailability of land and decided to hand over its eight hydroelectric units in Jharkhand to the Jharkhand government. All these projects pertained to Bihar State Hydroelectric Power Corporation Limited (BHPC).

 The cabinet also sanctioned Rs143.93 crore for 12 hydroelectric power units of BHPC under construction in Bihar as per their respective revised estimate.
 
 In another important decision, the state cabinet sanctioned Rs105 crore as grant to   for construction of community building-cum-workshed in every district during the financial year 2017-18 and 2018-19.
 
 The cabinet also sanctioned Rs2500 crore for use as bank guarantee against loans to be taken from commercial banks by Bihar State Food and Civil Supply Corporation for procurement of paddy for the kharif season (November 2017 to July 2018).
 
 Total 19 proposals from different departments of the state government were approved.
 
 Cabinet secretariat department principal secretary   said the hydroelectric power projects of BHPC to be transferred to Jharkhand government include Chandil Dam project (2x4MW), North Koel project (2x12MW), Tenu-Bokaro Link Canal project (1x1MW),   project (2x500kW), Lower Ghaghari small project (2x200kW), Netarhat Small project (1x40kW), Jalimghagh demo hydroelectric project and Nindighagh demo hydroelectric project (1x200kW).
 
 The hydroelectric projects to be closed down include Bathnaha (8MW) in Araria, Nirmali (7MW) in Madhubani and Kattanya (2MW) in West Champaran. The proposed hydroelectric projects to be cancelled include Ararghat (7MW) in Madhepura and Bagaha (50MW) in West Champaran.
 
 In another important decision, the cabinet sanctioned Rs56.72 crore for construction of a high security jail at Phulwarisharif in Patna for lodging Maoists, dreaded criminals and high-security prisoners.
 
 The government revised the slabs for sanctioning lease rights of government land at different levels in the state government — from circle officers up to department level. 
 
 The proposal to form new norms for absorbing existing staff in government corporations, boards and societies in their respective departments was also approved.
 
 
