Ludhiana: Thousands of farmers made a beeline to purchase the improved seeds of various recommended crop varieties introduced by the Punjab Agriculture University (PAU) on the last day of the   on Saturday in the university premises here.

 The chief guest K S Pannu, chairman, Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) and PAU alumnus, raised concern over water issues and air pollution in Punjab and said, “Farmers alone are not to be blamed for the crisis—some government policies are equally responsible for the same. Punjab is paying a heavy price for feeding the nation and making it food secure, particularly, through paddy (water consuming crop) cultivation.”
 
 Pannu also expressed concern over the wastage of water through RO system, which is expensive as well as finishes iron, manganese and calcium present in the water during usage. “RO system is needed only in 20% area of Punjab, especially in Bathinda and Abohar,” he added. Stating that “the smoke emerging from straw burning engulfed the entire state and the national capital Delhi, he urged the “farmers to use PAU developed technologies Happy Seeder and PAU ‘s Super Straw Management System for its management”. “There are 10,000 combine harvesters in Punjab and it has been made mandatory to attach Super SMS system to these machines for use during next year, he informed”. Voicing concern over farm suicides, Pannu called upon the farmers to adopt simplicity in life and be disciplined citizens.
 
 Prof Purnendu Biswas, vice-chancellor, West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, was the guest of honour. Ashok Kumar, assistant director deneral (Animal Health), Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), who was also the guest of honour, thanked the farmers of Punjab and said , “Present agriculture scenario needs to do away with the dependence on monoculture of wheat-paddy,” he observed, while stressing on diversifying fields, using water judiciously, stopping of residue burning and enhancing the use of organic manures.
 
 The guest of honour, Konstantin A. Malashenkov, counsellor (agriculture), Embassy of Russian Federation, said, “I visited PAU in 2007. Both the countries share 70 years of successful partnership in diverse areas.” Impressed by PAU’s research, he said it will benefit the farmers of Punjab as well as India.
 
 In his remarks, Baldev Singh Dhillon, vice-chancellor, PAU, said, “Farm suicides should not happen.” According to the Central government’s survey, the agriculture household income in Punjab is Rs 16,300 per month whereas in Haryana, it is Rs 10,900 per month, he divulged. 
 
 
