Coimbatore has produced a number of excellent dancers — both in western and classical genres — over a period of time. The city’s passion for dance is quite evident, what with recognition the dancers get often. On the  , today, CT spoke to a few popular dancers in the city to study the current scenario of dance and how it has evolved over time.

 M Edwin, who’s running Footloose Dance School for over 25 years, says, “We are one of the oldest western dance schools in the city. When I started, there was a notion that dance is pursued by people who are not educated. I am an engineer who pursued my passion. It took so many years for us to break that misconception with our achievements. They thought of dance as a bad influence that could spoil our culture. It took them a long time to understand and fall in love with dance. Now, second to Chennai, we have so many professional dancers here. However, I feel the standard of dance is better here than in Chennai. In Chennai, it is more of cine dance... where the aim of the dancers is to do well in cinema. Here, we have a lot of individuals and troop performers, who thrive in dance shows.”
 
 But Edwin says that not many want to learn properly. “Today, people want overnight popularity. No one is ready to spend more time and learn dance properly. In the past, for a dancer to become a choreographer, it will take so many years. Now, after a couple of shows, they become choreographers. But this won’t help them in the long run.” 
 
 M  , one of the popular dance choreographers from the city, says, “The passion for dance has definitely gone up, but it lacks a proper structure. Many of them discontinue dancing after a phase because they get stranded. There should be a proper syllabus and curriculum for western dance, just like how it’s there for classical dance. Western dance needs a good format. I am currently working on a council called the   (a non-profit organisation), which has so many dancers from different countries contributing to form a syllabus and organise western dance. We are planning to design a course and educate aspiring dancers professionally. ”
 Once the syllabus is set, Sherif is planning to circulate it to all the dance schools. He says, “On May 21, we are planning to launch the council in the UK. Then, I am planning to bring that to India and circulate it to all the dance schools in the country, so that we have a uniformed syllabus and a council to look after the dancers and their careers. We are planning to give insurance to dancers, too. We are dependent on movies in India. If the number of songs in films goes down, there will be nothing to do for dancers. Until now, all we know about dance is what that particular choreographer teaches for that film. Once we have a council, it will have proper module for each and every genre in western dance.”
 
 Manoj Jackson, popular television dancer, points out that there is hardly any recognition for dancers. “The dance schools here show interest in nurturing talent. There are so many popular dancers who have emerged from the city like Sherif and  , which inspires a lot of youngsters to take up dance. The quality of dance has improved, too. But I don’t think there is proper recognition for dancers. We should work on that. Only then parents will encourage their children to pursue dance,” he says. 
 
 R Prabhu, another dancer who runs a dance school in the city, says, “There has been a great leap in the last 5-10 years. The number of dance schools has gone up and many dancers have achieved big on the dance scene. Social media has given a great platform to showcase dancers’ talent and it has broken the image that dancers should only perform in cinema. While social media is a great boost, it has its flipside, too. Dancers want to get popular in a jiffy and you start their own school. Once you stop learning, your skills will never develop and will come to a standstill. Even the best choreographers in our country learn something new every day.”
 
 Moving on to the classical dance scene in Coimbatore,  , founder of Bhakthi Natya Niketan, says, “My experience has been extremely good. The good thing is that once students get a taste of what it takes to attain perfection, they are ready to work hard for it. We are not catering to a huge number of people, but with limited students, we are doing well.” But Karuna says that there is scope for improvement. “For instance, take Palakkad... when the best dancers in their town do a performance, the hall is full. In Coimbatore, even when great dancers come here for a performance, the event is badly attended. We still have a notion of attending a concert only when our child or when a friend performs. That needs to change. We need to build an audience and make classical dance accessible to more people,” she points out.
 
 Lavanya Sankar, founder of Abhyasa Academy of Classical Dance, says, “When I started dancing, in 1983, there weren’t many dance schools here and my guru used to come from Chennai to teach me. Over the years, there has been a sea change and the opportunities and exposure for classical dancers have improved. Given the overall western influence, we see a lot of interest from the younger generation. They respect the classical art form. I think, as teachers, it is important for us to learn to interact with this generation. It becomes monotonous after a period of time as the art requires a lot of discipline. But, compared to Chennai and Bengaluru, we don’t have that many dance festivals happening in the city. We also need good auditoriums in the city as we don’t have many places to perform. We have halls to do arangetram and small performances, but to bring a big production, we require better auditoriums.”
 
