TNN

 New Delhi: Times Group’s one-of-a-kind competition   is back. With an aim to disrupt modern advertising, Power of Print is an effort to bring out the best of print creativity and make it work for a company or cause.
 
 Launched in 2017, Power of Print’s first edition saw Swiss food giant Nestlé come on board as partner with a brief to send more girls to school through the   initiative. The response saw 417 creative agencies battling it out for top honours with 823 entries.
 
 It resulted in the   winning a Gold   at  . In the second edition, too, Power of Print will be conducted as an open contest to create a print campaign based on a new brief from Nestlé India. This time, it will be about the need to   so that they make informed decisions, while choosing the right nutrition for their kids.
 
 Overseen by a jury panel comprising Prasoon Joshi, Josy Paul, Raj Deepak Das, Keegan Pinto, Malvika Mehra, Zenobia Pithawalla, Amer Jaleel and Rashi Goel, creative teams will vie for the top spot by working on the live brief.
 
 “After successfully demonstrating the impact of newspaper advertising in 2017, Power of Print is back in 2018 and we are glad that   has come on board once again as partner,” said Raj Jain, CEO at BCCL. “Power of Print is a unique initiative that seeks to engage the best creative minds in print advertising and this year’s focus is on children’s nutrition and parents’ responsibility in modelling good food behaviour.” 
 
 The winning campaign will be released in the Times Group publications and the team behind it will be awarded at the Kyoorius Creative Awards (KCA) in June, along with a fully paid trip to Cannes Lions. The contest is open to all communication agencies, including creative, media and digital, PR.
 
 Chairman & MD of Nestlé India, Suresh Narayanan, said the FMCG major aims to spread awareness on nutritional truths of good food among parents in India through this campaign. “Good food habits are formed early,” he said. “Healthy eating habits and their development is crucial in the building of a nation. We are very happy to partner with The   group for the second consecutive year on this initiative and appreciate coming together of the advertising community to contribute their creativity to this cause through the print medium.”
 
 Jain added, “Considering the ‘nation-building’ nature of the topic, I believe that newspapers play an important role in influencing societal change through its ability to deliver credible and trustworthy information.”
 
 The advertising community had echoed similar views during the first edition of the contest. “Print advertising is effective because words linger in your mind long after you put down a newspaper or a book,” they said. 
 
 Please visit www.timespowerofprint.com for more details; last date to send in entries is May 9, 2018.
 
 
