NEW DELHI: A 72-year-old retired mechanical engineer with an airline was smothered with a pillow during a robbery bid by his household help in  . The help and two of his associates have been arrested for the crime. 

 On April 6, family members of the victim, Surender Kumar, found him lying in his room and took him to a hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. As he was bleeding from his nose, suspecting foul play the doctors informed the cops. The body was sent for autopsy at   during which it was found that Kumar had been smothered. 
 
 "A team led by SHO Virender Singh was formed to track down the killers. We suspected someone known to the family to having committed the crime since the entry to the house was friendly. A bloodstained pillow was also recovered from Kumar's room," said DCP (south) Romil Baaniya. 
 
 Kumar stayed with his elderly wife on the first floor of the apartment and had employed the household help,   (22), a few weeks before the incident. The help's antecedents had not been verified.
 
 A probe revealed that Chaudhary had not slept the entire night on the day of the incident. Police also found that he had called a few numbers several times. When he was questioned, Chaudhary first tried to mislead the cops, but later admitted to having committed the crime. He had hatched the plan with two friends, Narendra and Kale, who were arrested from their village in UP. 
 
 Chaudhary said that he hatched the plan to rob Kumar on the day he joined work. He roped in Kale and Narendra for the job. On April 6, he opened the door for the two men. They collected a few household items and then decided to take Kumar's   car and flee.
 
 However, while Chaudhary was picking up the car keys from the bedroom, Kumar woke up and raised an alarm. Fearing that they might get caught, Chaudhary smothered him with a pillow. The others ran away while he stayed back to avoid suspicion. He was produced before a court and is being interrogated to recover the stolen goods.
 
 The victim is survived by his elderly wife and their son who stay in the same building. Police said that Kumar was posted in London before he retired. 
 
 
