NEW DELHI: A day after TOI reported on the condition of the Urdu medium   in Delhi’s  , the Delhi   expressed   over the handling of the issue of the school and asked the Delhi government, Delhi Development Authority ( ), Delhi   and the South Delhi Municipal Corporation to look for   for the students.

 Functioning under battered asbestos roofs and haphazardly assembled rickety furniture, the Qaumi Senior Secondary School has provided for thousands of students in its 42 years at the Eidgah. The only governmentaided Urdu-medium school in the vicinity, it caters to residents of Qasabpura, Quresh Nagar, Bada Hindu Rao and adjoining areas. The school once functioned from a bustling four-storeyed building, which was razed during the Emergency in 1976.
 
 A petition was filed by activist Firoz Bakht Ahmed after concerns were raised that the school would be dismantled by the government and students would be transferred to other schools.
 
 A division bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar showed concerns over the situation and suggested that the LG and Delhi government must sort out the matter of providing the land to the school.
 
 The court was hearing a petition filed by activist Firoz Bakht Ahmed, demanding that the government construct a new building, “as promised when the government of 1976 had levelled the ground where it once stood”.
 
 The counsel for the petitioner, Atyab Siddiqui, stated that the court has suggested three alternative lands for the new school. “One of the suggestions was to use the parking lot next to the Eidgah, a large ground on the south gate of the Eidgah and a closed abattoir near the school,” the lawyer said. “The next hearing is on July 18 and till then all parties are asked to discuss and come up with a solution.”
 
  “The Right to Education would prevail over any parking place and commercial complex,” the bench observed, while ordering status quo at the site. It also asked the LG to look into the matter as the head of DDA so that "justice is done to the children".
 
 
