Nagpur: Even as Shri Shivaji Education Society, Amravati, continues to remain tight-lipped about Nagpur University (NU) Management Council’s decisions to impose a hefty fine of Rs10 lakh on it and Rs1 lakh on its principal DK Burghate, colleges and experts have accused NU administration of being vindictive.

 The trust and principal have refused to comment on the issue saying they are yet to receive official notice from NU. On January 22, the university imposed the fine for handing over officiating principal charge to Burghate in 2014.
 
 Sources from the college said the trust is likely to move the court against the action. 
 
 A college principal cited the example of divisional commissioner Anup Kumar, who held the additional charge of NU VC, to justify Shivaji Society’s decision taken in 2014. “In fact, former director of Institute of Science Rajaram Atram too had held the additional charge of the Gadchiroli institute,” he said.
 
 Academicians questioned NU’s intention and authority in taking such a harsh decision. Shivaji Science in the fourth college to be fined in the last couple of months.
 
 A faculty member from the college said Burghate has only improved the condition of the college. “Before him, the Paoni college was in a shambles. Anyone can go and see how things have changed for better once he took over. Above all, he did all this without charging a penny,” he said.
 
 Sunil Mishra said, “NU should put its house in order. The committee formed to conduct inquiry too was led by a principal who has been nominated by the vice-chancellor on the management council. This is a big contradiction.”
 
 Mishra added that there are several such examples of norms violation within the university administration itself.
 
 Mahendra Nimbarte, former management council member, said the VC must stop viewing all colleges from the same filters. “Not all colleges are same. There are many colleges especially in Gondia and Bhandara which are helping poor students. Shivaji Science College is a reputed institution and NU shouldn’t have insulted it in such a way,” he said.
 
 Nimbarte added that in the last couple of years, NU administration has gone directionless and its every move reeks of revenge or intimidation. “This is very harmful for the democratic fabric of the university,” he said.
 
 VC SP Kane said the administration wants to set a precedent. “It was a big violation. If a strong decision was not taken, a wrong message would have gone to smaller institution.”
 
 
