HYDERABAD: At a time when   police brass is talking about providing peoplefriendly policing, Rachakonda police went on an overdrive to provide green channel for IT minister KT Rama Rao’s convoy at   on Saturday even as an accident victim lay stranded, writhing in pain. The victim, Jeetender  , a businessman, was not allowed to get into his personal car and leave the spot for over 20 minutes.   police finally allowed him to go after the VIP convoy passed. The minister’s office, however, said: “KTR doesn’t appreciate police or anyone who deny help to an accident victim”.

 Around 9.30am on Saturday, 48-year-old Surana, a resident of  , was going on his two-wheeler. As he was nearing Dammaiguda Crossroads, a car rammed his bike from the rear. He was tossed off the bike and suffered injuries. As part of bandobust, policemen were posted at the junction since VIPs were passing en route to participate in official programme in that area. Policemen and locals helped him reach a nearby shop as he was not in a position to walk due to injury. Surana was made to sit on the steps of the shop.
 
 Instead of shifting him to hospital for first-aid, a policeman suggested to Surana to call his family.
 
 
 
 
 “I did not have any external bleeding injuries. I realised there was an internal injury since I had unbearable pain. By the time my wife and nephew reached the location in car, it took some time. However, my family members, who wanted to take me to hospital, were not allowed to shift me into the car. Instead, they were forced to park the car at a nearby bank as the cop said ‘the minister is coming’ until then your car cannot be allowed on the road,” Surana, also a financial researcher, told TOI.
 
 Due to policemen’s overenthusiasm to please their political masters, the victim, already in pain and with a swollen knee, had to wait for over 20 minutes before the VIP convoy passed through the area. Later, Surana reached Secunderabad Nursing Home, where doctors discovered his right leg had a fracture and advised him to undergo surgery.
 
 Surana’s family members lodged a complaint at the Jawaharnagar police station and a case was registered under Section 338 (causing grievous hurt by an act which endangers life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. “I underwent surgery and got discharged from hospital. Though it has been five days, my statement has not been recorded till now,’’ Surana said.
 
 When contacted on phone and SMS, the minister was “unavailable”. However, a member of his office said, “KTR’s nature is such he will be the first to come forward and help any victim. If we recall the Alwal accident, which took place last year, he got down from his car, while passing through the area, to help accident victims. He will never appreciate police or anyone denying help to an accident victim.”
 
 Jawaharnagar inspector   denied the charge that the victim was stopped and instead passed the buck on to 108 ambulance. “When I verified, I came to know the ambulance did not reach the location despite our men calling 108 for 15 minutes. So, our police sent the victim to hospital in an auto. It is wrong to say he was not allowed to move from the place,” the inspector added.
 
 The victim termed it a blatant lie and asked them to verify CCTV footage at the junction, but the inspector claimed CCTVs were not working.
 
 
 
