NEW DELHI: Amid growing public outrage over the Kathua and Unnao incidents, a collective of retired civil servants has written to Prime Minister   calling the current situation a “moment of existential crisis” in which the government’s response would determine whether the nation could “overcome the crisis of constitutional values, of governance and the ethical order”. 

 
 In a strongly worded letter that sought to pin the blame on right wing politics and the Sangh Parivar, the 49 signatories referred to the Kathua and Unnao incidents as the result of a “culture of majoritarian belligerence and aggression promoted by the Sangh Parivar”. They said the government had “failed in performing the most basic of the responsibilities given to it”, to reassure everyone, especially the minorities and vulnerable sections of society, “that they need not fear for their life and liberty”.
 
 The signatories included former coal secretary Chandrashekhar Balakrishnan, former police chiefs Meera Borwankar and Julio Rebeiro, former foreign secretary Nareshwar Dayal, former Indian ambassador to Italy K P Fabian and former health secretary Sujatha Rao. 
 
 The letter said, “The bestiality and the barbarity involved in the rape and murder of an eight-year-old child shows the depths of depravity that we have sunk into. In post-independence India, this is our darkest hour and we find the response of our government, the leaders of our political parties inadequate and feeble. At this juncture, we see no light at the end of the tunnel and we hang our heads in shame. Our sense of shame is all the more acute because some of our younger colleagues... also seem to have failed in their duty.”
 
 The retired civil servants, who addressed the letter as “citizens” with “no affiliations” , also blamed Modi. They said, “In both cases, prime minister, it is your party which is in power. Given your supremacy within the party and the centralised control you and your party president exercise, you more than anyone else have to be held responsible for this terrifying state of affairs....”
 
 The former government servants also asked the PM to apologise to the families of the Kathua and Unnao victims.
 
