British Statesman Benjamin Disraeli once said that the youth of a nation are the trustees of posterity. Bringing to one’s mind those words, nine students from three   colleges - Malayinkeezhu Madhavakavi Smaraka Government Arts and Science College (MMS College), Immanuel College, Kattakada Christian College and University College - have come together to be part of the   project, which was initiated to make the Kaatakkada constituency water-rich.

 As part of the project, a six-day campaign is on, which saw a 40-minute-long skit titled Mattangalillathe Manasunarthunnavar performed by the students, to create awareness about the importance of  . The students are determined to spread the message to multitudes in the 30 locations within the six panchayats in the constituency.
 
 Amritha AV, a student of MMS College, says that working closely with the programme has helped her develop a clear perspective about how intense the water problems in the State is. “It was an eye-opener, as it made me realise how much we, as human beings, have wronged nature. I think art is the best means through which we can interact with the audience.”
 
 Another student, Karishma Sekhar from the same college says she hopes that their fellow students will derive inspiration from their act to build a better future for the coming generations. “Our purpose of educating people was fulfilled to a great extent. We could captivate the audience by throwing light on the issue related to water, that many of us tend to sideline.”
 
 The Jalasamridhi project, which kicked off on World Water Day last year, had primarily aimed at the process of artificial recharge (injecting water to the ground through recharge wells). “We identified six schools hit by water scarcity within the constituency, and with our consistent work, we have now been able to rejuvenate water sources in the area. Now our sole aim is to work towards preserving water,” says Nizamudeen A, land use commissioner.
 
 Their activities include constructing rain water pits, cleaning public ponds and encouraging rain water harvesting in houses. Nizamudeen beams when he says that not only have the various locations in the constituency seen a positive change, the methods were declared as the solution for drought by none other than the Finance Minister, in his speech during the annual State budget.
 
  
 
