CHANDIGARH: The city’s resident welfare associations (RWAs) are finding new ways of disposing of dry leaves that create a mess in the neighbourhood   during spring. They aren’t waiting for the municipal corporation to act.

 The associations have a tough time maintaining the parks in spring because of the heaps of dry leaves that get collected under the trees. They have found both manual and mechanised ways of dealing with the problem, to make the best out of waste.
 
 Sector 20 resident welfare association president Dr O P Verma talked about compost-making from dry leaves at three parks under this body of citizens. “This year the programme will cover another park,” he said. “With this, we hope to not only get rid of the seasonal problem of dry leaves in the parks but also convince the market associations to dispose of their waste in these composting pits dug up in the parks. Before the season starts, we will be ready to use the pits.”
 
 Baljinder Singh Bittu, president of the Sector-21 citizen association as well as the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh (FOSWAC), an umbrella body of all the RWAs, said the Sector-21 body had bought a dry-leave-collection machine for maintaining the parks in spring, especially. He said: “Many times, we have raised the issue with the municipal corporation and asked it to find a permanent solution to the spring mess. Since the civic body took no action, we had to purchase the hi-tech equipment on our own.”
 
 He said Foswac will give a representation to the MC this week about the need to start collecting dry leaves from even those parks that are not under the jurisdiction of the RWAs.   of the Sector-32 RWA said: “Every year, we give several reminders to the corporation to clear dry leaves from the parks, and they come up with the traditional solution—which is to hire tractor trailers to haul the clutter. But that also doesn’t serve the purpose, as the collection system is improper and the collectors no so well trained.”
 
