Nagpur: Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) that keeps citing lack of space within city limits for parking and maintenance of city buses has lost sprawling 87,156 sq.ft land (nearly two acres) reserved for truck terminal on Koradi road by not acquiring it even after notice by the owner. The state government has now deleted the reservation from city’s development plan (DP) and the owner is free to make use of the property as per user prevailing in adjacent area. The state’s urban development department (UDD) issued a notification on February 15 deleting reservation no: N-159 on the land bearing khasra no- 124/2 in mouza Zingabai Takli in West Nagpur. “NMC was the appropriate authority of the reservation. Land has not been acquired by the NMC within ten years from DP coming into force. Owners of the land had issued a notice under Section 127 (1) of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act to NMC asking it to acquire the land. Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court also passed an order in this case on October 7, 2015. Land was not acquired in stipulated time despite notice from land owners. It is accordingly expedient to notify the reservation on the land has lapsed. Land stands released and shall be available to the owners,” the notification said. As per DP, land is part of sprawling 8.17 hectares reserved for truck terminal. The reservation was placed on the land as it is situated on the outskirts of the city on national highway. It was supposed to be utilized for parking and maintenance of trucks and public transport. NMC has been running city buses on Koradi road since the launch of service ten years ago. It always said there was lack of space within city limits, especially on outskirts for city buses’ depot and parking. But it did nothing to acquire this land despite it being reserved since 2001. As per HC order, owners— Anand and Anuradha Budhraja— residents of New Colony, Sadar, had served notice to NMC asking it to acquire the land on January 21, 2012. Following NMC’s failure to acquire the land within one year, the owners approached the HC requesting it to direct the government to free the land from reservation. In the HC, NMC admitted no effective steps were taken to acquire the land. “It is submitted that Respondents No 2 and 3 (civic chief and assistant director of town planning) took some steps for acquisition of the land and land was valued. It is stated that since the land was valued at around Rs 3.50 crore, the Respondents No 2 and 3 wanted the higher-ups to take a decision. It is fairly admitted no effective steps have been taken for land’s acquisition. Therefore, it is necessary to declare the reservation of the land has lapsed,” the HC said. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal said he did not remember the particular case and will look into it. “NMC had acquired a large number of reserved lands for public purposes since introduction of DP,” he said.