THANE: Are garbage dumps and litter deterring you from going on that much-needed jog? Maybe you can try plogging, the latest fitness craze that has descended on Thane.

 On Sunday, 200 fitness enthusiasts in jogging shoes and sweatbands, armed with litter collection bags, entered the Yeoor forest range at 6am and picked up trash strewn across the roads while trotting forth. This is perhaps the first plogging movement in the state. The trend is said to have been conceptualised by the Swedes and has been replicated globally thereafter.
 
  
 The Yeoor drive was organised by NGOs   and Yeoor Environmental Society, with the help of the civic body.
 
 Mayur Jamdhade (28), a coaching institute owner who went with 30 students said, “It was an amazing three-hour ex-perience. We keep talking and reading about the ill-effects of waste and plastic, we got a firsthand experience.” The joggers started from   and went up to Patonpada area—a 4.5km stretch—picking up plastic, wrappers and whatever waste came their way.
 
 Founder of Earthkids Tarun Gautam, a retired Indian Air Force officer, said, “I was posted at Yeoor Air Force station a few years ago and organized numerous clean -up drives in the green zone. But they were not as effective as they were on a small-scale. A few months ago, I read about plogging and realised that Yeoor sees hundreds of joggers everyday.” “We also hope that this initiative helps curb flooding during monsoon. We plan to hold the drive once a month,” said Rohit Joshi, member  .
 
 While the drive proved to be successful, NGO volunteers worked round-the-clock for the past two weeks to spread the word. “We went up to each jogger around Upvan in mornings and evenings and explained to them the importance of this initiative. We also reached out to citizens on social media.
 
 While we had 100 registrations, more than 200 turned up on Sunday,” Joshi said.
 
 On Sunday, two civic waste collection vans were filled up with the litter collected by these enthusiasts. “Yesterday, the municipal corporation arranged for waste cans. However, when I go daily, there are barely any. Those that exist are overflowing. Civic bodies should add more bins and speed up waste pick-up process. The movement will succeed if government and citizens come together and replicate it everywhere,” said   (34).
 
 Speaking about the relationship between fitness and environment, international marathoner Dr   said, “Sportspersons always participate in green initiatives as they know environment impacts health. While plogging is a fairly new concept, athletes have been known to take up green initiatives. But I do not know how many want to stop and pick up waste.” The drive also had its share of entertainment as some groups performed song and dance.
 
