CHANDIGARH: Police arrested a 20-year-old   for allegedly raping a 12-year-old girl in   village on Wednesday.

 Police said the accused, employed in a store in Sector 7, was returning after work when he found the girl alone in her one-room house around 5.30pm. He asked her to bring him some water to drink. When she went inside, he followed her, locked the door and sexually assaulted her, police said. The accused left after threatening the girl of dire consequences if she told anybody about the incident. The girl informed her parents, both daily wage labourers, about the incident when they returned home after some time.
 
 The girl was rushed to a hospital for treatment as she suffered external and internal injuries in the struggle. Police said the girl was under a disturbed state of mind and traumatized. On the basis of the description narrated by her to cops at the hospital, police began to look for the accused.
 
 A few hours later, he was arrested from near   quarters in Dadumajra. He had been hiding near the village when the cops caught him. The cops said the accused was identified by the victim when she was returning from the hospital after recording her statement under Section 164 of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC).
 
 Police said he had been living in the area for last six years with his family.
 
 Senior superintendent of police (SSP)  , who visited the spot, said “We examined footage from closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed around the incident site. The pictures were also shown to the victim to help us arrest the accused.”
 
 The accused was booked under Sections 376 ( ), 506 (criminal intimidation) and Section 6 of   From Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the   police station.
 
 
 
 
  | A 14-year-old girl was allegedly gang-raped by two men in Kharar
 
 
 | A minor boy was booked for allegedly raping his six-year-old cousin in   
 
 
  | Two persons allegedly raped a 16-year-old girl after inviting her to their house in Phase I, Mohali
 
 
  | A 12 year-old boy from Uttar Pradesh raped an eight-year-old girl in Dhakoli, Zirakpur
 
  | Two Panchkula residents were booked for abducting and raping a minor girl near Sarangpur in Chandigarh
 
 430 kids’ abuse cases in 3 years
 
 Figures from the police departments show that 430 cases were registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act from January 2014 till December 2017 in Mohali, Panchkula and Chandigarh. Of all these cases, more than half (227) were reported from Chandigarh alone, making the city most vulnerable for kids.
 
 In Mohali, 104 children were sexually abused, while 99 cases were registered under POCSO Act in different police stations of Panchkula.
 
 
