KOLKATA: Even before the new property tax regime takes off in earnest, Kolkata Municipal Corpoation is set to amend the laws governing it. The move is aimed at allaying fears and encouraging a majority of tax payers to switch over from rent-based assessment to unit area assessment (UAA). 

 The draft amendment that is ready for scrutiny by the state municipal affairs department before being tabled at the assembly incorporates changes in the parameters for calculating the property tax. These include exclusion of common areas in commercial buildings from the area of the flat being assessed, relieving landlords of double taxation and relaxing parameters that determine tax zones.
 
 The civic authorities also propose to reassure property owners that the shift to UAA will not lead to a dramatic hike in tax. It intends to retain the 20% cap on either increase or decrease in tax for at least one tax cycle or five years. By introducing these changes,   hopes to increase the UAA compliance that currently stands at less than 8%. Only 60,000-odd property owners have to date applied for UAA. There are 7.8 lakh assessees in Kolkata.
 
 KMC’s revenue department officials felt the complex UAA form that property owners needed to fill up was a deterrent as it was confusing. Though an attempt was made earlier to simplify the form, it needed to be done further. Ditto with the rules. 
 
 One of the major anomalies in UAA parameters was on the tax calculation of properties that have been rented out. The system did not take into account the quantum of actual rent but based the calculation on the potential rent. Hence, properties that had low rents on account of being leased out years ago attracted the same tax as those in the locality that had recently been leased out for a hefty sum.
 
 Another anomaly was levying tax twice over for properties that had been rented out commercially. Under the existing UAA rules, the property owner is first taxed for renting the property and again for the commercial venture undertaken in that rented space. 
 
 The civic authorities also propose to retain the 20% cap on hike or lowering of tax due to the shift to UAA for a tax cycle to alley fears of a hike within a year. "We will not be unreasonable. Property tax will not decrease or increase beyond 20%. We have no plans to alter this," said mayor  . 
 
 The mayor had recently held a meeting with senior officials of assessment department to do away with redundant rules that have complicated matters and are proving a hurdle to UAA compliance. This followed a representation from a section of city’s shopping mall owners who felt common areas in the facility should not be subject to property tax calculation. 
 
 “We have been approached for exemption of common areas at malls from UAA calculation. We have discussed the issue and may consider the plea. For that, the UAA laws need to be amended. We are in the process of sending the UAA guidelines to the state for revision,” an assessment department official said.
 
 KMC has also tied up with the umbrella organisation of real estate developers in the state, CREDAI-Bengal, for implementation of UAA.
 
 
