Nagpur: Developing recreational hobbies does wonders in improving our mental health, but just having a positive outlook we can relieve a stress to a significant level, observed well-known psychiatrist Dr Sudhir Bhave, here on Monday.

  was said the words while delivering a   on ‘stress management’ during World Health Day programme, organized by Indian Water Works Association, at its premises in Shankar Nagar, on Monday. He delivered the keynote lecture on how to manage stress and lead a happy life.
 
 A lecturer at Lata Mangeshkar College, Dr Bhave, said, “In today’s world, we often complain about how stressed or problem-ridden our lives are. We fail to understand that it’s not event that causes disturbance in our lives, but our perception towards it.”
 
 “There are quite a lot of sources of tension today, but only one cause of it. By just having a positive outlook towards the problem, we can relieve the stress to a substantial extent,” he said.
 
 He went on to explain three steps of identifying problematic areas that he often practices with his patients. “For every stress causing situation, humans have a natural conditioned emotional response which stems from our beliefs. This ‘belief system’ is what causes anger or anxiety in us because that thought has been roped in our brain likewise. But if we just change our perspective and think about it rationally, the situation automatically waters down,” said Bhave.
 
 He emphasized on the importance of developing recreational activities as they can be a major breakthrough in wiping out depression and stress. Bhave, who is also a researcher in the field of music therapy said, “Everybody must develop a recreational habit. Find that one hobby that speaks to you and pursue it for at least half-an-hour every day. This will not only help you grow as a person but also uplift your mood significantly.”
 
 He also talked about the major causes for depression and lowering levels of mental health amongst youngsters. “One of the leading fads amongst students today is pulling off all-nighters in the pretext of studying or for recreational purposes. This habit is adversely affecting their cognitive and intellectual abilities and students must remember that having a good night’s sleep is as important for your brain as it is for your body. Also, regular exercise can eradicate early signs of depression and anxiety,” he said.
 
 
