In the latest episode of  , Surbhi Rana was the first contestant to try her luck. She rapped her way into the hearts of the judges' panel. A dentist by profession, Surbhi shocked everyone by saying that once   had refused to dance with her at a new year's party that he had performed at. What happened next left everyone with side splits in laughter. Nikhil decided to dance with her to fulfill her wish but she ended up doing most of the dancing as he stood there red-faced.

 She said some other shocking things about her herself but what was most jaw-dropping was the seductive dance she did as a part of the task with   at the receiving end.
 
 She was entertaining, to say the least. Next, she had to perform a task in which she had to state a few statements which were too hard to believe for the judges. Surbhi, with her outlandish personality, was selected to compete on the reality show.
 
 Ishaan Raj, who confessed to playing the drag queen in shows, was the next one to present his case in front of the judges' panel. He did a short skit to convince them and he was successful in winning over them. Things took a turn for the worse when he talked about his relationship with a minor girl, who was 9 to 10 years his junior. He said he has a violent streak and that he had hit his girlfriend of 16 years of age and his father once in a fit of anger. He was ousted unceremoniously by the judges.
 
 Next, contestant Mehakdeep Singh came dressed in a traditional get-up. He won over the judges' panel with his jovial nature. He was quizzed about his general knowledge and he failed to provide correct answers to most of the questions but his answers cracked up everyone. He amused all and sundry with his dance moves and then impressed them with his athletic moves. He was selected to proceed to try his luck in the show.
 
  
 Supriya was the next contestant to enter the show. Her troubled past shocked all the judges. She opened up about the inappropriate advances that he step-father made towards her but other troubling things about her living situation. Everyone tried to console her and keep her spirits up when she broke into tears. The mood lightened up when Rannvijay and others made her talk to her brother to share her problems. She was not selected for the show as the judges thought that she needed to focus on getting her life in order first. 
 
 Next contestant Geetika had to do the Bhangra on a Hindi song. She talked about her body-shaming days when she was targeted by her peers and then, she talked about how she has come a long way from those days. She went ahead to talk about her physically abusive relationship and how she had to endure countless hardships. Much to her joy, she was selected to proceed to the next level.
 
