NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: If you are planning to wash down that spicy meal with a glass of your favourite wine or a pint of chilled beer, chances are you might be disappointed, at least for the time being.

 A tweak in the excise department’s policy has taken most of the current stock off the shelves in pubs, restaurants and off shops across Noida and Ghaziabad. The revised policy has made it mandatory for holograms on liquor bottles to be replaced with  , which means bottles with holograms have had to be recalled.
 
 The excise department recently allotted 483 licences to open retail liquor outlets in Gautam Budh Nagar. Officials said the supply crisis perpetuated by the barcode policy would take a few more days to be resolved. Liquor wholesalers — who form the chain between retailers and manufacturers — need to replenish their stock once the distilleries change the holograms on the bottles with barcodes.
 
 Though the situation is likely to normalise in a few days, retailers fear the temporary vacuum will send many customers to outlets in neighbouring Delhi and create a black market.
 
 Some off shop owners said they had seen a 50% dip in daily sales. “I had agreed to take up the dealership because I was told sales would shoot up to Rs 3 lakh-3.5 lakh daily. Ever since the change in policy was announced on April 1, I have been able to sell liquor worth only Rs 1 lakh a day. Customers come looking for their brands, but I have to refuse them,” said a dealer in   who requested not to be identified.
 
 Data sourced from the excise department says Gautam Budh Nagar sees a monthly consumption of 5 lakh litres of foreign liquor (mostly IMFL), 7.5 lakh litres of country-made liquor and 9 lakh litres of beer.
 
 Excise department officials said the move to shift to the barcode policy was necessitated by the numerous cases of spurious liquor being sold in branded bottles in Ghaziabad. Four persons had died last month at Khoda Colony in the city, allegedly after consuming spurious liquor. “The problem of liquor supply is temporary. The entire department is working in tandem to shift to the new system as early as possible. All products with holograms have been called back. The department will return this stock with barcode labels after taxing them additional duties on the basis of the latest price list,” said  , the district excise officer in Ghaziabad.
 
 The excise officer of Gautam Budh Nagar, R K Singh, however, said there was only shortage of beer in the district. “We’ve a stock of 1,300 cartons of foreign liquor and 9,000 cartons of country-made liquor. There is some shortage of beer. The demand and supply will improve in 3-4 days,” he said.
 
 Some retailers and pub owners claimed the shortage had been created by a section of old off shop owners who were miffed at the administration for granting 483 new licences. “Some of the older licencees still wield control over the wholesalers,” said Sandeep Mendiratta, a pub owner in Noida.
 
 It is the customers who are at the receiving end.  , a resident of Sector 35, said he had visited two outlets in Noida on Sunday but could not find his brand. “I went to Delhi and bought the liquor. I hope the situation improves soon,” he said.
 
 
 
 
