TRICHY: Altercations, tearing of nomination papers, vandalisation of society offices, protest and complaints of irregularities marked the second day of filing of nomination papers for the posts of board directors in various primary cooperative societies in the district which will go to polls in the second phase on April 7. 

 In all, directors to 148 cooperative societies will be elected in this phase. Directors to 608 cooperative societies across   district will be elected in four phases of elections announced by the state government. Opposition parties alleged that at many places the officials, acting at the behest of   functionaries, were not even present to receive their nomination papers. Members of these parties accused the cooperative society officials of attempting to retain the existing board of directors as ‘dictated’ by the ruling party.
 
 It may be pointed out that filing of nomination papers for the first phase of elections scheduled for April 2 was not a smooth affair for the opposition candidates last week. “I was waiting in front of the Sri Vinayaka Moorthy Primary Agriculture Cooperative Credit Society (R1607) office since 9 am on March 26 for filing nomination for the first phase. The office remained closed till 5 pm. So, we left the place but we found a notice in the office stating that the executive members had been duly elected to the board,” alleged the district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI, Ayilai Sivasuriyan. He also submitted a petition to the district collector  , appealing to take action to conduct the cooperative elections in fair and free manner. Members of Thiruvalluvar Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Society in   near Trichy alleged that despite the strong protests and media reports, the officials continued to go by the directions of the ruling party men now as well. They said that the officials failed to turn up at the office on Sunday to avoid accepting nomination from them. “We returned with the papers as the officials did not visit the office,” said a member.
 
 Similar situations prevailed in the societies at Valadi, Kalyanamedu and Manthurai in Lalgudi taluk in Trichy too with no official present to accept nomination papers from the candidates. Angered by the unfavourable developments, a group of farmers and members of the societies staged a novel protest by handing over their nominations to a dog.
 
 
