GREATER NOIDA: A six-year-old girl going to a shop on Saturday morning to buy biscuits was dragged inside a police outpost by a 39-year-old constable, who allegedly tried to rape her twice.

 The girl managed to escape the first time because the cop hadn’t properly bolted the door. She didn’t initially tell her parents, who sent her off to school, which is along the same route. The cop waylaid her again, grabbed her hand and tried to pull her into the outpost but she managed to yank her hand free. This time, she ran straight to her father, an auto driver who was in the vicinity, and told him about the assault on her.
 
  Singh, who was the lone policeman present at the time at Kulesra police outpost in Greater Noida, was suspended and arrested later in the day. Singh was allegedly drunk, which local residents claimed was nothing unusual since this particular outpost was notorious for drunken behavior by cops. SP (rural)   admitted drinking was a problem at the outpost and said she had instructed all three circle officers to direct the personnel against having liquor on duty.
 
 This is the second instance of a policeman sexually assaulting a child in Greater Noida in less than two months. On January 10, a constable on deputation with the sales tax department had allegedly raped a seven-year-old girl in front of her younger brother after luring them into his room with a Rs 10 note.
 
 Singh, sources said, spotted the girl when she was walking past the outpost. He dragged the girl by the hand and closed the door from inside. The door, however, was not locked properly and the girl managed to free herself and run. “I saw her running back to our house. Later, as soon as my child left home for school, I saw Narendra Singh holding her hand but she loosened his grip with a jerk and ran back to me. When I asked her what happened, she told me what had transpired at the police chowki,” the father said.
 
 He said he confronted Singh immediately but the cop just walked away without replying. The girl’s father then dialed 100 and a police team arrived. Local residents gathered at the outpost around 9.30am and started a protest. A heated argument ensued between the villagers and police personnel in the outpost, which prompted the outpost-in-charge Harbir Singh to lodge an FIR against Singh.
 
 Singh was booked under IPC 376 (molestation) and other sections and under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act Act. The child was examined at a health centre in  . A test on Singh confirmed he was drunk, police said.
 
 
