NEW DELHI: A divided fivemember collegium led by CJI   put up a united face on Friday and agreed in principle to reiterate its recommendation to appoint   high court Chief   as a   judge, but decided not to communicate the decision to the government immediately.

 
 Behind the official announcement about unanimity among the CJI and Justices J Chelameswar, Ranjan Gogoi, Madan B Lokur and Kurian Joseph "to reiterate in principle" the collegium's January 10 choice of Justice K M Joseph was much disagreement and debate, leading to an ancillary resolution stating that the "said reiteration should also be accompanied by the recommendation of the names of chief justices of HCs for elevation as judges of the SC".
 
  
  
 Since the identification of names of chief justices of high courts will require fresh deliberations within the collegium, it was decided that the CJI and the next four senior judges would meet again on May 16 to finalise other candidates. The Centre had returned Justice Joseph's name for reconsideration last month even as it accepted the other pick,  , a segregation which was seen as having been influenced by the high court chief justice's 2017 verdict striking down imposition of President's rule in the state.
 
 While asking for reconsideration, the Centre argued that Justice Joseph was way too junior in the all-India seniority list of judges and that his parent HC, Kerala, was adequately represented through Justice Kurian Joseph. By sticking to its choice on Friday, the collegium has turned down both the objections.
 
 Friday's meeting took place against the backdrop of Justice Chelameswar's May 9 letter to the CJI insisting on reiteration of Justice K M Joseph's name as well as public statements of Justice Kurian Joseph in Kerala that the choice be restated quickly for the sake of protecting the judiciary's dignity and independence.
 
 The 15-minute meeting, which has a monopoly over the appointment of judges to constitutional courts, was marred by Justices Chelameswar and Kurian Joseph making a strong pitch for reiteration of Justice K M Joseph's name and insisting that his name be sent alone to the government for quick elevation.
 
 However, Justice Gogoi, who will succeed CJI Misra on October 3, and Justice Lokur agreed with the CJI that when there were seven vacancies in the Supreme Court, it would be improper for the collegium to send only one name to the government.
 
 The three prevailed over Justices Chelameswar and Kurian Joseph and asserted that the serious issue of nonrepresentation of several HCs in the SC should be considered as it was incongruous with the two Constitution bench judgments in 1993 and 1998 which created the collegium system.
 
 In fact, the ground for widening the ambit beyond the Uttarakhand high court CJ's name to include the names of others was set through the agenda prepared for the collegium meeting on May 2 where deliberations on reiteration of Justice K M Joseph's name were deferred.
 
 The May 2 agenda had emphasised that the meeting would also "consider names of judges from Calcutta, Rajasthan and Telangana & Andhra Pradesh HCs in view of the concept of fair representation" (as per the two Constitution bench judgments).
 
 However, the agenda for Friday's meeting dropped the term "fair representation" and simply stated that the collegium was "to consider names of HC judges for elevation as judges of the SC".
 
 Taking a cue from the May 2 agenda, sources had speculated that the collegium might consider Madras high court CJ Indira Banerjee (parent HC Calcutta), Karnataka high court CJ Dinesh Maheswari (parent HC Rajasthan) and Gujarat high court CJ R Subhash Reddy (parent HC Telangana and AP). However, no names were discussed in the meetings on May 2 and Friday.
 
 Justice K M Joseph's name was recommended along with that of senior advocate Indu Malhotra by the collegium on January 10. After sitting on the names for more than three months, the government cleared Malhotra's name last month and returned Justice Joseph's name for reconsideration.
 
