Chennai: Women seem to go for bling at weddings, even as men try to push back. About 21% of women were planning to spend Rs 10-Rs 20 lakh, while only 11% of men wanted to spend that much for their once-in-a-lifetime event, a survey said. About 6% women were willing to spend as high as Rs 20-Rs 40 lakh on the D-day. Another interesting find was that South Indians seemed to be more conservative when it comes to the ‘big bang weddings’ than their Northern counterparts. As high as 18.6% of North Indians were willing to spend their all at wedding, compared to only 12% in the South, 11% in the West and 11% in the East willing to do the same. When it came to gold -- deemed a must for most Indian brides, the majority about 51% of women and 67% of men wanted to spend up to Rs 3 lakh for wedding jewellery. About 22% women were willing to spend as much as Rs 4-5 lakh on wedding jewellery, 13% said they'd spend up to Rs. 5 lakh and 14% were willing to go as high as Rs 10 lakh. In contrast only 6% of men were willing to go up to Rs 10 lakh for jewels, 8% said they'd spend Rs 5 lakh and 20% felt Rs 4-5 lakh was a more reasonable amount.Destination weddings are another ‘in-thing’ for women, with 27% wanting an exclusive high-end affair at an exotic location. Only 19% men were keen on the same. But if weddings were to be held in their hometowns or metros, 25% women said they'd like to spend Rs 1-2 lakh for the wedding venue and 7% said they could go higher. Men were less keen with 22% saying they'd spend Rs 1-2 lakh for the mandapam and 6% willing to go north of Rs 2 lakh, the survey conducted by Matrimony.com said. And why spend so much, if the affair is not Instagrammable? To ensure more likes on wedding clicks, about 27% women were willing to spend between Rs 50,000 Rs 1 lakh for their wedding photography. Men were not far behind with 26% men willing to cough up that amount for “memories that last forever.” About 6% of women and men were willing to go upwards of Rs 1 lakh for wedding photography. Another distinction between the sexes is that women would like to take the trouble of planning all the little parties for their ‘mehendi ki raat’ ‘sangeet’ ‘haldi,’ the colour coordination, the clothes and the accessories themselves, while men would prefer a professional do the same. About 40% of men were keen on hiring a wedding planner, compared to only 37% of women willing to do the same. If a lakh or more was needed for the photographer, the same would be needed for clothes and accessories to be decked out in. About 40% women said they’d want to spend Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh be on on Kancheevaram silk sarees, blood-red brocade lehengas or flawless, pristine sequin-encrusted white wedding gowns. About 20% said they would pay even higher for their bridal trousseau. And men weren't far behind when it came to spending for their Raymond suits and blazers with 40% saying they would spend Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh on wedding clothes and 15% willing to spend even more. And what's an Indian wedding without an colourful, mouth-watering, scrumptious menu that leaves the guests bursting at their seams? About 32% women wanted to spend between Rs 2-5 lakh for feeding their guests, while 8% wanted to spend even more than that. Men were less keen on a feast, with only 28% wanting to spend between Rs 2-5 lakh and 7% wanting to binge even more.And after all that fuss, where does the happy couple head off? The survey said top honeymoon destinations in the country were Goa, Kerala, Shimla and Manali; outside of India, people preferred Switzerland, Maldives and Singapore. India's $54 billion wedding services market is a huge opportunity for businesses with 10-12 million marriages taking place every year, according to KPMG report. "Our insights prove that the rich Indian wedding tradition continues to flourish with the biggest gathering of family, relatives and friends," said Murugavel Janakiraman, founder and CEO – Matrimony.com.