VISAKHAPATNAM: City Task Force (CTF) cops busted two online   gangs and arrested seven persons on Wednesday night. The accused were allegedly involved in betting on Wednesday evening’s   match between Chennai Super Kings and Royal Challengers Bangalore.

 The CTF sleuths, acting on specific intelligence inputs, raided two different flats situated in the posh Kirlampudi layout, taking the organisers by surprise. They seized Rs 10.6 lakh in cash besides with three laptops, five multi-level cell connectivity boxes, 107 mobile phones, 3 TVs, 34 new unused SIM cards, a car and four two-wheelers from their possession.
 
 The kingpins of the betting racket have been identified as Marada Lakshmi Chandra Sekhar (43) of SR Nagar in Hyderabad and a native of Nuzvid in Krishna district, and Avupati Bheema Raju of Kutukuluru village in Anaparthi mandal of East Godavari. Sekhar was assisted by commentators-cum-phone boys Gandi Swami Naidu (20) of Gajapatinagaram mandal and   of Mentada mandal in Vizianagaram district. Bheema Raju was assisted by cash collector Bhogila Satyam (24), commentator Lokarapu Tirupati (25) of Kailam village in Mentada mandal of Vizianagaram and phone boy Kovvuri Varaprasad (25) of Anaparthi mandal in East Godavari. 
 
 Joint city police commissioner D Nagendra Kumar told media persons on Thursday that all the apprehended persons belong to Hyderabad, East Godavari and Vizianagaram. He said the task force team led by ACP I Chitti Babu along with Three Town police station house officer conducted raids at   apartment and Hema Heritage apartment in Kirlampudi residential area of the city.
 
 Nagendra Kumar said the accused took the flats on rent a couple of weeks before the start of the IPL season for the purpose of betting under the guise of work-from-home employees. Most of the punters involved in the online betting of these two gangs belong to East Godavari, Guntur and Vijayawada areas.
 
 CTF assistant commissioner of police I Chitti Babu said it’s the first major betting racket busted in the state this year. Cops at Vizianagaram, Rajahmundry, Anantapuram and other areas have busted betting gangs in the past. “But here in Vizag, we busted two gangs with huge equipment and cash,” he said. The cops have registered two different cases at Three Town police station under the provisions of AP Gaming Act. Further investigation is on.
 
 
