HYDERABAD: Clearing air over Friday's encounter at   forest in   district in Chhattisgarh, Telangana police brass have confirmed that Maoist top guns   and   were not present at the encounter site. 

 Though contradictory versions were put out in the last two days, police brass on Saturday clarified that CPI (Maoist) Telangana State Committee secretary Haribhushan and Khammam Karimnagar Warangal (KKW) secretary Damodar were not present at the encounter site. However, the officials did not the rule out the possibility of any Central Committee (CC) member's presence there as several central regional bureau (CRB) cadre were killed in the encounter. CRB members, considered elite in the ranks, provide security cover to top-ranking Maoists.
 
 In a related development, forensic experts on Saturday performed autopsy on the bodies of the 10 Maoists - seven women and three men at the Bhadrachalam Area Hospital in   district and seven members were identified after their respective family members recognised the bodies. So far, police could establish the identities of Dadaboina Swamy alias Prabhakar, DKSZC Press team and resident of Kadipikonda village in Warangal, central regional command (CRC) dalam members Somidi alias Sukki, who was from Sukma district in Chhattisgarh, Kosi of Ganguluru village, Ithu of Thippapuram, ACM CRC, Doctor Team, Rame, a resident of Veerapuram, CRC A-Sector commander Mallesh.
 
 Though on Friday police claimed there were six women among the 10 slain Maoists, police clarified on Saturday that there were seven women. "On Friday, it was through facial recognition, keeping the dignity of the individuals, prima facie we came to a conclusion that there were six women. However, during the post-mortem examination, it was established that seven women were killed on Friday," Badradri Kothagudem SP Amber Kishore Jha said
 
 One of the reasons police think a large number of Maoists could escape is due to the highly difficult terrain. The combing parties visit these locations occasionally, while the top Maoist leaders frequently move in these areas and were familiar with its topography.
 
 
