PORT ELIZABETH: For the first time in 26 years, a visiting Indian team recorded a first in South Africa, winning their maiden one-day series after a 73-run win in the fifth ODI at St George’s Park on Tuesday.

 
 
 
 
 Rohit Sharma’s 126-ball 115 and Kuldeep Yadav’s four-wicket haul and a very impressive spell from allrounder Hardik Pandya fashioned the win. India now lead the six-match one-day series 4-1, with the series decided in India’s favour. Setting South Africa 275 runs to win after batting first, the Indian attack saw the hosts start on a very positive note. Opener Hashim Amla’s 92-ball 71 and skipper Aiden Markram’s run-a-ball 32 gave South Africa a 52-run opening partnership.
 
 
 
 
 
 It wasn’t until Jasprit Bumrah had Markram set back, caught at mid-off, and Pandya running out Amla by mere inches off the crease that India began to flex their muscles. The only other resistance from South Africa came when middle-order batsmen David Miller and Heinrich Klaasen began another assault - continuing from the Pink Day massacre - to keep the side in the hunt.
 
 Wrist spinners Kuldeep Yadav and Chahal, nevertheless, kept the pressure on and India surged ahead on what turned out to be a very good wicket for a one-day match. There was something for everybody here – batsmen got centuries, bowlers got pace and bounce and the spinners got their share of turn. All factors put together, India emerged the better team.
 
 Earlier in the day, after South Africa won the toss and elected to field, Rohit Sharma’s century remained the day’s batting highlight. The rest of the batting line-up, barring   yet again, conveyed a sorry tale.
 
 Fourteen balls, two runs, three wickets. From 176-3 in 31.5 overs and 236-4 in 42.2, India got reduced to 238-6 and eventually wrapped up at 274-7 in 50 overs. The entire middle-order, post Kohli’s dismissal, folded in 10.1 overs for a mere 89 runs, of which 25 came off Rohit’s bat.
 
 From what had been an expected worry all this while - of the middle-order not getting enough exposure in the first three one-dayers - the last two of this six-match series have put the onus back whether this Indian team has found its trunk in the batting line-up to see them through over the course of the next 15 months.
 
 India began well and could’ve done better if not for Kohli and Rahane running themselves out when there wasn’t a run. The onus remained on Rohit to get India moving and the opener got lucky with two chances – the first being another run-out scare and the second a sitter dropped at third man by Tabraiz Shamsi.
 
 During the chase, South Africa’s batsmen were yet again undone by spin, with chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav bagging four sensational wickets as the hosts folded for 201 in 42.2 overs.
 
