After penning the National Award-winning screenplay for Junglee Pictures’   (2015), which won critical and commercial acclaim, Vishal Bhardwaj has again joined hands with the production house for it's sequel. 

 The first part, directed by Meghna Gulzar was a fictional dramatization of true-life events revolving around AARUSHI TALWAR murder case investigation. The thriller was based on one of the most intriguing and talked about double murder cases (Noida double murder case) in recent Indian history.
  
  
 For Talvar 2, Vishal has set his sights on the murder of seven-year-old Ryan International School, Gurgaon, student  , by a school senior. The second collaboration between Vishal and   takes forward the adaptation of true-crime stories for the big screen.
 
 Vishal Bhardwaj will be writing the screenplay for Talvar 2, helming the story of the ongoing case, which shocked the country when news first came of the Class 2 student being found with his throat slit in the school bathroom last September. The incident sparked a fierce national debate on the safety of children inside schools, on juvenile crime and the pressures put on children. It then emerged that the prime suspect was a 16-year-old student of the same school.
 
 “Talvar was about much more than the heinous crime itself, the film held up a mirror to society and exposed several loopholes in the system,” says Vishal, adding, “Such crimes shake the very moral fabric of society and need to be analysed in a much deeper sense. The world is not just black and white, there’s more to a crime than just victim and perpetrator. That’s why we have decided to continue making true crime procedurals like Talvar.”
 
  from Junglee Pictures tells us, “Our journey on Talvarwas more than just a film for us. It is a telling example of how big screen stories, when handled honestly and sensitively, have the power to alter the lives of people associated with the real incident. We are excited to embark on our vision of compelling storytelling, yet again with  , and taking the Talvar franchise forward.”
 
