GUWAHATI: The growing unrest over the Citizenship (Amendment)   caught up with chief minister Sarbananda   on Saturday at  , with the first capital of the Ahom kingdom also becoming the site where the chief minister encountered protesters against the contentious bill for the first time. 

 On Saturday morning, as Sonowal's chopper landed, he was greeted by protesters lined up along the road, holding placards with angry messages against the bill, all the way from the helipad. 
 
 Sonowal was in Charaideo to inaugurate a replacement power project. Charaideo SP Jitmol Doley said, "People from the area were protesting against the bill near the helipad. Some youths were planning on showing black flags, but we came to know of the plan early in the morning and stopped it."
 
 Sonowal's repeated assurance that his government will not go against the interests of the people seems to have made no difference to public sentiment regarding the bill. The state remains divided - with the   opposing it and the Barak Valley favouring it.
 
 Earlier this month, students of Dibrugarh University - Sonowal's alma mater - announced that they would not allow him to enter the campus until the Centre dropped the bill. Since the visit of the Joint Parliamentary Committee (JPC) on the bill on May 7, the state has seen unprecedented street protests against the proposed legislation that offers citizenship to refugees belonging to Bangladesh, Pakistan and Afghanistan on religious grounds. The protesters fear that granting of citizenship to migrants from Bangladesh would turn the indigenous people into a minority in their own state.
 
 Sonowal, who did make it to the inauguration, dedicated the Lakwa Replacement Power Project to the state at a function at Maibella. 
 
 He said, "It is an important achievement towards the state government's efforts in attaining self-reliance in power generation ... This will help the government attain self-sufficiency, leading to industrialization and employment generation." 
 
 He also said that generation of power is one of the objectives of his government as attaining self-sufficiency would lead to industrialisation and generation of employment avenues.
 
 
