 (SOUTH 24 PARGANAS): Investigations into the mysterious death of a   couple at Kakdwip early on May 14— hours before the state rural polls started—took a turn on Saturday after the Sundarban zilla police initiated a murder case. This, despite the state administration’s claim that the husbandwife duo were burnt to death due to short circuit and that they were not victims of poll-related violence.

 
  
  
 Victims’ son   Das told TOI that he was alarmed to see flames raging at their home. “While I was returning home from my catering job, I could see flames inside the house. As I hurried inside, two to three persons passed by me,” Das said. Neighbours pointed out that there was no possibility of a short circuit as there was no electricity. “How could there be a short circuit? Lights went off in the area following rain and storm that evening. This short circuit theory was spread by our minister and local MLA Manturam Pakhira. How could he say that without even paying a visit to the house?” said Sikha Adhikary, a   resident and a neighbour of the Das family.
 
 Even the forensic team, which visited the house, found a plastic bottle and the gas cylinder intact inside, where a devastating fire was apparently caused by a short circuit. The electric wires and switches had no carburation. “We have seized a kerosene bottle from inside the house. Our next step will be to ascertain how this bottle was used. We are waiting for the forensic and the post-mortem reports,” an investigating officer said. Superintendent of police   cautioned against drawing any conclusion before getting the post-mortem report. “We have initiated a murder case, based on an FIR. I am not ruling out any possibility, whether it was a death due to short circuit or a murder. Let us wait for the reports,” Basu said.
 
 The CPM has decided to move court against ministers Pakhira, Partha Chatterjee and director general of police Surajit Kar Purakayastha. “They misled the public, calling the deliberate murders ‘deaths due to short circuit’. They even announced it while the charred bodies were lying at their Kakdwip home,” said CPM South 24 Parganas secretary Shamik Lahiri. Seemingly on backfoot, Pakhira said, “Their home is situated at a distance from the village, close to the river. It appeared to me that the deaths were due to short circuit. I am ready to take back my statement if investigation proves otherwise.” But the South 24 Parganas district administration said it endorsed the short circuit theory, based on inputs from “local sources”.
 
 The police claimed Das’ son, Dipankar, who was the prime witness to the case, had gone missing. “We need him badly but he has gone missing. We need to question him to get leads,” a police officer said. The CPM district secretary expressed surprise at the police claim. “Police handed over the bodies to Dipankar after he moved court. Now they say they can’t find him,” Lahiri said. Sources said Dipankar had been admitted to a local nursing home and would join the CPM rally at Kakdwip on Sunday.
 
 
 
