The Indian national football team led by  , under the guidance of  , never had it so good, at least in recent times. Currently ranked 97th in the world, the team clocked a long unbeaten streak under the British coach who was recalled in 2015 after a 10-year gap. He is now set to become the longest-serving foreign coach of India after   who was at the helm for six years.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Under Constantine, India qualified for the 2019   finals, eight years since the days of Bob Houghton. Chhetri has been the leader all this while and scored 13 goals in 22 games he has featured in. His teammates --  ,  ,  ,   -- to name a few, have gelled into a tough fighting unit. They form the core of the team for which Constantine is charting the course with diligence. Excerpts from an interview...
 
 
 
 We began our preparations the moment we qualified. We are trying to give experience to the younger players but at the same time keeping a balance. This is what we did in Kyrgyzstan. Although we lost, some younger players got the chance and some playing time against a team that is of the Asian Cup level. We have the Intercontinental Cup (June 1 to 10) which will test us and there are several other things being worked out. Once confirmed, we will be able to talk about it.
 
 
 
 There are no bad teams at this level. They all give us slightly different problems. We will take one game at time and prepare accordingly. I feel we have a legitimate chance to get out of the group one way or another. We will have to be at our best. We will of course do our due diligence on all our opponents and come January we will be ready for them all. Trust me, we are not going there to make up the numbers. We will fight for everything from the first to the last minute. We will not ever stop running.
 
 
 
 
 There are three FIFA calendar dates between now and the finals in January. In September, we are competing in the SAFF, in October-November we will be playing a friendly against any one of the Asian Cup finalists. The break in mid-December is where we will head off for the camp. Another couple of friendlies are being planned before the finals in January.
 
 
 
 
 I have always believed that matches are the best form of training. It is important that the players keep playing in the league. It will help them stay in condition to play internationals rather than have a threemonth training camp. I am pleased to say that the relationship with the I-league and ISL and the clubs has been positive. The players are being released in good time and we are all on the same page more or less.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think anything is really set. Sure, we have players who have featured consistently during my time. However, no one can take their place for granted with the games we have coming up. Of course, like always we will be watching both the I-League and the ISL. We have someone at most games checking on the current players and on others who could force their way in.
 
 
 
 Well, avoiding some of the other bigger teams like Australia , Japan , South Korea is one aspect. Yes I understand that. But playing the host nation (UAE) is never a favourable option and you have two teams who, on their day, are very good regardless of the FIFA rankings. As I said before, there are no games where you just turn up and get the win. We are going to have to fight and we will.
 
 
