KOLKATA: Mumbai Indians are a team that thrives in adversity and seem to reserve their best when the chips are down. They had done that in 2014, when they won five of their last six matches to progress to the playoffs. The defending champions have to show similar intent if they are to sneak into the knock-out stage in IPL-11.

 
 
 
 
 MI, who lost six of their first eight matches, have picked up steam after tasting victory in their last two matches. They hold a 17-5 head-to-head record over   in   and stretched their winning streak to seven matches over the ‘Purple Brigade’ when they beat them by 13 runs at the Wankhede on Sunday. If they go on to register back-to-back wins over their ‘bunny’ team at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday, the two teams will be tied on 10 points after 11 matches.
 
 It’s crucial game for KKR, who continue to blow hot and cold. With Sunrisers Hyderabad (16 points) virtually assured of a playoff berth and CSK (14) and KXIP (12) also better-placed in the points table, KKR (10) will find itself in a mad scramble to make the cut if they fail to come up trumps on Wednesday.MI have both history and form on their side. They have traditionally done well at Eden Gardens. Apart from defeating the hosts six out of the eight times they have played here Eden has been a happy hunting ground for   captain   where he has hit centuries in all forms of the game. Moreover, he had led MI to their maiden IPL crown here in 2013. There cannot be thus a better time and occasion for Rohit, who has been struggling with the bat, to get back into his groove.
 
 For KKR, it is imperative that they put Sunday’s unsuccessful chase behind. They were going great guns in pursuit of MI’s tally of 181/5 and were well placed at 111/2 at the end of the 12th over. But strangely in spite of having eight wickets and eight overs in hand, they failed to pull it off.
 
 The inability of their batsmen to convert good starts into big scores has hurt the team. Each one of their top-seven batsmen have logged half-centuries this season, but, but none barring skipper   — averaging over 50 this season —has shown the inclination to stay there till the end and get the job done.
 
 
