KOCHI: The CBI court here on Friday sentenced two persons convicted in a honour killing case to life imprisonment. A fine of Rs 1 lakh each was also imposed on them.

 
 The court on Thursday had acquitted three others.   and Mohammed Haneefa were awarded life imprisonment under section 120 B of the IPC for murdering  , a 29-year-old youth on September 18, 2001 in   for marrying a woman of another religion. The fines were imposed under section 302 of IPC. Balakrishnan, who was in love with the woman, had married her in June, 2001.
 
 
  
 
 The amount should be paid to Gopalan, father of the deceased, the court ruled. The default of payment of fine will invite rigorous imprisonment for two years. Sentences will run concurrently.
 
 Though the prosecution had argued that the case was rarest of rare and requested maximum punishment to the convicts, special CBI court judge S   said it does not fall under the category. The first accused sought leniency citing that he has three children, one of them who is partially blind, and aged parents. The second accused also sought leniency citing cardiac disease and aged parents.
 
 The court acquitted two others — A Abdul Gafoor alias Gafoor of Thayalangadi and A M Muhammad of Chengala — due to lack of evidence.
 
 The court also ordered to conduct a probe against   and C A Abbas, who turned hostile in the case, for the offence committed under section 193 of the IPC. They were witnesses in the case and had given statement before a judicial magistrate under section 164 of CrPC. But the duo denied it during trial in CBI court.
 
 Balakrishnan, a Youth Congress activist, was stabbed inside a car by the convicts. After suffering stab injuries, Balakrishnan ran towards a nearby mosque but collapsed in the veranda after stating that he was stabbed by Muhammad Iqbal, the first accused in the case. Though he was rushed to hospital, Balakrishnan succumbed to injuries. He was murdered three months after his marriage with the woman, daughter of Abdul Gafoor.
 
 According to the prosecution, Iqbal befriended the victim and took him in a hired car to a secluded area at Chemmanad Kadav where he was stabbed. Iqbal, who later fled to Dubai, was arrested by the CBI with the assistance of Interpol 10 years later.
 
 The accused were sent to central prison in Kannur.
 
 
