

 A little distance away from the Porvorim plateau lies the lush green   of  , which means ‘Saviour of the World’.
 
 Salvador do Mundo, along with the villages of Socorro, Penha de Franca and part of Pomburpa, comprise the comunidade village of Serula, which was among the largest villages in Goa from time immemorial till the Indian administration introduced village panchayats in Goa in 1963.
 
 Salvador do Mundo houses a population of around 10,000 persons. Locally, the village is called Saloi and its residents are known as ‘Saloikars’. The Salvador do Mundo Church is 452 years old and was the only church in the village serving the large parish before the other churches in Serula village were built.
 
 “People residing in Penha de Franca, Socorro and Pomburpa have special affinity for Salvador do Mundo village and its parish church. Both Catholics and non-Catholics still remember that the life of three-and-a-half villages was closely interwoven by the mother church called Salvador do Mundo,” says Fr Joao Fernandes, who hails from Socorro and is presently the parish priest of Salvador do Mundo.
 
 The village has a nine-ward panchayat and has several traditional ‘vadde’ (vaddo: singular, meaning traditional village ward) including Salem, Gangoz, Umbra, Sodiem, Ubovaddo, Quitula, Donvaddo, Paitona, Torda, Badem, etc.
 
 Residents of Salvador do Mundo are fighting to protect it. “Our vision should be to make Salvador do Mundo self-sufficient. Emphasis should be on cottage industry and home farming for locals, and power generation through clean sources like solar power,” says Anil Lobo of Gangoz.
 
 “All Saloikars must preserve the magnificence of this village,”says Ayres Sequeira of Donvaddo.
 
 Residents’ Speak
 
 The onslaught of modernization and increasing entry of migrants has not deterred our spirit to safeguard our village’s scenic splendour manifested in its lush green forests, agricultural fields, water bodies, ‘bandhs’ and amazing ancestral houses and places of worship. Saloikars have excelled in professional and vocational fields, and we have doctors, academicians, jurists, bureaucrats, priests, etc.
 
 Roque Luis de Souza | resident
 
 Salvador do Mundo is blessed with greenery. The church is a spiritual landmark in  . In our village, Hindus and Catholics live in complete harmony and have tremendous mutual respect for each other’s faith.
 
 Sanjeev Naik | former sarpanch and social worker
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 We want to make Salvador do Mundo garbage-free through a door-to-door waste collection initiative. With the support of the government, efforts are being made to widen narrow roads. Through our MLA's efforts, the new panchayat building is being constructed by GSIDC. This new office will house facilities like a sports ground, gymnasium, bank, health centre, offices of the water and electricity departments and the post office.
 
 Sandeep Salgaonkar
 
 RENOWNED RESIDENTS
 
 Late Raimundo Venancio Rodrigues: Held a doctorate in mathematics and was a professor at the University of Coimbra in Portugal
 
 Late Sir Ernesto Jose Soares: Was a doctor of law at the University of Cambridge and British MP, who represented Barnstaple constituency
 
 Late reverend Joseph Cordeiro: First cardinal in Pakistan
 
 Late Orlando Lobo Sequeira: First MLA from the village who represented Aldona constituency
 
 Late Jose Francisco Martins: Social worker and freedom fighter
 
 Late Khushali Naik: Social reformer, who, in 1960s and 1970s, worked to treat alcoholic residents. His followers gave him the name of Shree Muchkund Swamiji. His samadhi (tomb) lies in the Datta Mandir at Donvaddo
 
 Esmina Martins: First sarpanch
 
 Fr Mousinho Afonso de Ataide: Parish priest at St John the Evangelist, Neura, and expert in Canon Law
 
 Dr Shipra Pednekar: Neurologist
 
 Dr Justin Pereira: Gynaecologist
 
 Dr Meenakshi Martins: Physician, social activist, Konkani film actress and Marathi natak artiste
 
 Olga Vaz: Tiatr artiste
 
 Ayres Sequeira: Social worker and writer
 
 Heritage Trail/Landmarks
 
 Salvador do Mundo Church: Was constructed in 1565 and has been dedicated to the Saviour of the World. The church feast is on August 6 and it is also celebrated as ‘Konsachem Fest’, in which the priest blesses the new rice corn and cuts the first sheaves.
 
 St Rita of Cascia Chapel: Situated at Donvaddo, it is probably the oldest chapel in the village and its feast is celebrated on May 22. The other four chapels in the village are dedicated to Mother of God, Our Lady of Sorrows, St Sebastian and St Anne.
 
 Shree Ravalnath Temple: Located at Quitula, this place of worship is thronged by devotees during the annual ‘zatra’ in which the deity is taken out in a special procession. The event takes place around the months of February and March.
 
 Escola de Primeira: Located besides the Saviour of the World Church, this quadrangular building housed the parish school till 1961. It was an important place in the village from where some talented musicians have graduated.
 
 Poim: Among the most scenic spots in the village where residents gather in the evening for conversations. A tributary of River Mandovi also passes through this village. Before motorized road transport, this waterway was an avenue of travel for residents who used motorboats to commute to Panaji and Aldona.
 
 Ancestral house of Orlando Lobo Sequeira: This house in Donvaddo was owned by one of the village's noted residents. After it was donated to the Handmaids of Christ Sisters, it is now known as ‘Prem Dhan’.
 
 Torda Lake: Situated at Torda, it is considered as among the most beautiful lakes in Bardez taluka. But, like other water bodies in Goa, it also faces the menace of littering.
 
 Houses of Goa: This modern two-decade-old museum at Torda is artistically designed and resembles a ship. Open fromTuesday to Sunday, it showcases Indo-Portuguese architecture and depicts the work of architect Gerard da Cunha.
 
 
