It was just another day. But Kaira, who had just returned home from school, wasn’t in her usual cheerful mood. It is not an easy task to lift the mood of a child, especially, if she is a headstrong three-year old spoilt brat. 

 
 Putting up my best smile, I just announced, “Ira, I have cooked your favourite mutton biryani.”
 
 
 There was no reply from the other side of the room. Sensing that it was a grave issue that was bothering her, I carried the plate of food and sat down on the sofa next to her. As I balanced a small heap of rice on a spoon and carefully brought it near her pursed lips, she slowly opened her mouth. But her action was not meant for the spoonful of biryani, she stared at me with her teary eyes and asked, “Where are my grandparents?”
 
 
 This is a question I had been dreading since the day we had   her.
 
 
 Getting no reply from me, she pursued harder. “Everyone’s grandparents came to our school. Except mine. We had a Grandparent’s Day at school.” A long sigh followed. 
 
 
 I knew this was coming. Her one little query pushed me to a corner I never wanted to visit.
 
 
 We had been married for four years, a period long enough to raise eyebrows when we said we were still childless. Even our parents had given up hope and I didn’t know which was more painful—the numerous disappointing visits to IVF clinics or the studied silence of our parents whenever the topic of adoption was raised. 
 
 
 I was slowly crawling towards depression, and it was the last straw when my mother-in-law suggested that we visit a ‘guruji’ who is known to bless couples with children. We didn’t visit the ‘guruji’ but we did visit an adoption centre. Unlike what we see in movies, the process of adopting a child wasn’t easy. After doing the required paper works, the representatives from the centre visited our place for an inspection and only after they were satisfied that we would be good parents, we finally passed the test. 
 
 
 I waited with bated breath for her to arrive in our life. When she did, there was no looking back. She was just three-months old, soft like a snowball and felt like a new-born in my arms. I was too scared to hold her. What if I drop her? What if I hold her too tight? Lost in thousand thoughts, we reached home carrying our tiny bundle of joy.
 
 
 However, what greeted us wasn’t what we had expected. “Beta, please do not take her near your father-in-law. He is a heart patient. He might not take it in a good way,” warned my mother-in-law gently.
 
 
 We did abide to whatever the elders told us. I kept Kaira away from everyone as much as possible. But she wasn’t a quite child. Fortunately, my husband’s office was shifted to another city and I decided that we would move out. 
 
 
 It has been more than three years now. Although we maintain a good relationship with our parents, they still seem to avoid Kaira. They have never cared to know how she is doing. Never wished her on her birthday. 
 
 
 I can still remember what my mother-in-law said when we were getting ready to move to the new city. “It’s okay that you have adopted a girl. But you can still have a child of your own. We don’t even know what religion she belongs to. Our society will never accept her…” Her tirade was cut short by Kaira’s merry laughter. I didn’t have to say anything; my daughter had given a befitting reply.
 
 
 “Ma, will my grandparents attend my birthday party next week?” My reverie was broken by her persistent question.
 
 
 “Yes, they will. And they will also get you your favourite pink frock!” I replied. 
 
 
 I made a promise that day. I will fight for my daughter and convince her grandparents to accept her. And this is a fight that I will have to win. 
 
 
 –by Anonymous
 
 
 
