NEW DELHI: SBI, the country’s largest public sector bank, moved the   on Tuesday challenging a tribunal’s order, which was upheld by the Bombay high court, allowing   to stake a claim on RCom Consolidated’s assets. RCom owes Indian lenders Rs 42,000 crore.   argued that as a secured lender, its claim took precedence over others. 

 
 RCom Consolidated incorporates the Anil Ambani-led group’s   Communications, Reliance Infratel and Reliance Telecom. Apart from SBI, 24 other Indian lenders constitute the Joint Lenders Fora, including BoB, BoI, Canara Bank, Central Bank of India, PNB, IDBI Bank, UCO Bank, IOB, Dena Bank, Corporation Bank, Union Bank, United Bank, LIC and Barclays Bank. 
 
 They had initiated sale through bidding of RCom Consolidated’s assets. Reliance Jio Infocomm (Jio) had agreed to buy spectrum, cell towers and other infrastructure, including 1.78 lakh km of fibre optics line, of distressed RCom Consolidated for Rs 17,300 crore. Apart from monetisation of secured assets, two properties of RCom Consolidated in Delhi and Chennai were proposed to be sold to third parties for Rs 800 crore. “Thus, a total of Rs 18,100 crore will come directly to the secured creditors,” SBI said. 
 
 However, when Jio’s bid was finalised and banks thought they would get part of their NPA liquidated, Ericsson moved the arbitral tribunal and sought to restrain sale of RCom Consolidated’s assets on the ground that it had a claim of Rs 1,150 crore on the debt-ridden private telecom firm. The tribunal on March 5 gave an order in favour of Ericsson and on March 8, the HC dismissed RCom’s appeal against it. 
 
 SBI has total dues of Rs 4,027 crore against RCom Consolidated. In its appeal, filed through advocate Sanjay Kapur, it challenged the HC decision and said an unsecured creditor (Ericsson) could not steal a march over secured creditors like SBI. Kapur mentioned the petition for early listing on Tuesday and a bench headed by CJI Dipak Misra agreed to post it for hearing on Thursday. RCom has also moved the SC. SBI, which was not a party before the tribunal or the HC, rushed to the SC to protect its loans secured against RCom’s assets.
 
