KOLKATA: A number of prominent to city schools have lined up plans to start operations from their expanded campuses from this academic session. The first on the line is Calcutta Boys’ School which will inaugurate a new block on April 10. It will be followed by a new school from Birla High in   on April 20.

 Calcutta Boys’ School is also likely to expand and start a humanities department for classes XI and XII, apart from the existing science and commerce faculties. Principal Raja Mcgee said the primary objective behind the expansion was to change with the times. “The idea came up in 2012 when we celebrated our 135th anniversary. We contemplated the need to update, renovate and modernize all equipment. We wanted to improve on the firefighting mechanism with water reservoirs in place and set up modern amenities for students and teachers,” Mcgee said.
 
 “Now a new drainage system has been laid, elevators have been installed and a new commemoration block has been built. It includes three state-of-the-art science laboratories, one computer laboratory, one boardroom, a modern gymnasium and a cafeteria. We will also include several classrooms in the new block,” he added.
 
  will start a new institute at Mukundapur with classes nursery through II. “We have planned to gradually build it up. Every classroom in the new school is like a hall with attached washrooms. We have digital classrooms, smart boards as well as an auditorium. The school will follow the CBSE curriculum,” said Mukta Nain, director of Birla High School.
 
 “We felt we had a high demand for admissions and decided to expand. In the new campus we have everything which we could not provide to students in the other school due to space crunch,” Nain added. The new school has admitted 280 students in the four classes.
 
 Principal of St James’ School T H   also divulged his plans for expansion. “We have identified around five-six acres on EM Bypass where we will open an undergraduate college with the name St James’ College. We are waiting for the green signal for affiliation from the state. Initially, we plan to introduce general UG courses and then will go on for management and engineering programmes. We may start the college from 2020. If we get additional space, then we also plan to open another school,” Ireland said.
 
  has set a target to relocate from the existing location and increase the intake of students by 2022. “We have some plans which will be gradually divulged. But we will increase the intake and completely relocate from our existing location,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani.
 
