BENGALURU: The   (Bescom) on Monday inaugurated its Fast Charging Station at its KR Circle office, the first such public facility in the city, which has more than 6,000 registered electric vehicles.

 Energy minister   said one charging will cost a car owner approximately Rs 75, and this would allow him to travel 120km. “We’ll launch the next 10 stations in the coming month across the city, including at Vidhana Soudha, Vikasa Soudha and other Bescom stations, including the one on MG Road,” he said. 
 
 As an inaugural offer, Bescom is offering a flat rate of Rs 4 per unit of power till the time the   ( ) approves tariffs the company has proposed. The proposed tariff is about Rs 4.85 per unit of power between 6am and 10pm and Rs 3.85 per unit between 10pm and 6am. Bescom, however, said the rates would differ for fast charging options: Rs 5 per unit and Rs 4.40 per unit during day and night respectively. 
 
 “It takes approximately 16 units of power to charge a car enough to run for 120km. This works out to less than Rs 60/km which makes it very competitive,” Bescom MD P Rajendra   said.
 
 Bescom hopes its initiative will fuel an increased demand for electric vehicles, which still remains a very small market in the city. “We’re set to give e-vehicles to our senior staff. Around 100 vehicles will be given and we can also look at replacing our fleet of 1,500 vehicles including 750 service vehicles with electric vehicles once more manufacturers enter the market,” Cholan said. 
 
 Bescom is in talks with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike and the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited about putting up charging stations at different locations like Namma Metro stations. 
 
 Cholan said around 200 locations have been identified and feasibility studies for nearly 70 are complete. “If there is a strong demand for charging points, we’ll be able to install them in a short time,” he added.
 
 Shivakumar also spoke about a proposed scheme where home users will be able to install charging points in their houses with a seperate meter which won’t cost much. “Electric vehicles are more efficient than diesel or petrol vehicles and travelling 1km costs Re 1 instead of Rs 4 with conventional fuel,” he said.
 
 He added that the project could take some time. Officials have told him separating vehicle charging from normal home consumption of power was still a technical challenge.
 
 
 
  
 
 
