Aurangabad: Promoting Suhita, the newly launched helpline for women, Maharashtra State Women Commission (MSWC) chief Vijaya Rahatkar on Monday said that the initiative would offer helping hand to women in distress. 

 Launched on the occasion of International Women Day, the helpline 7477722424 enables filing of complaints and also offers psychological counselling and guidance to women among other help. 
 
 While several helplines already exist for women, our helpline is first-of-its-kind measure that aims to boost morale of women who are in distress. Those women who needs helping hand can access our initiative by just ringing up on designated number during office hours, she said. 
 
 Rahatkar, while adressing special workshop on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 at BAMU here, also listed out some of the major activities undertaken by the MSWC such as reaching out to colleges to spread awareness about the legislation and empowering nearly 250 women organisations by offering financial help. 
 
 On Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, she categorically said that the legislation is not anti-men and has provision of taking care of false complaints. 
 
 The Act in gender-neutral and therefore men should not have any prejudices or misgivings about it. The legislation has provisions that ensure no innocent man is framed and victimised, Rahtakar said.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, acting BAMU registrar Sadhana Pande stressed the need for plugging alleged loopholes in the legislation concerned.
 
 We first have to create a situation in the society where both men and women are treated equally at workplaces and homes. Such equality would pave the foundation for sound implementation of the Act, she said. 
 
 Speaking on the occasion, social activist advocate Rama Sarode shed light on different provisions of the aforesaid legislation. The Act also includes means of transportation while considering safety of women reaching workplace. Also, the internal inquiry committees to be formed within institutions have given clear scope of understanding while deciding consent of woman in case of any sexual advance or unwanted approach, she said. 
 
 Completion of inquiry within a period of 90 days from the receipt of the complaint and special protective measure for vulnerable group of research students are some of the other key features the legislation carries, which were also discussed during the workshop, organised by Tarabahi Shinde Women Study Centre of BAMU. 
 
 Students and faculties from university departments and colleges benefited from the workshop, which was organised in association with MSWC.
 
 
