"Aap nahi hote toh patla hota main,” said a student as he walked towards   aka Anna, the man behind the popular, 34-year-old Anna’s Counter at St. Xavier’s College’s canteen. The counter shut last Saturday as a part of the several changes the institute will undergo ahead of its 150th anniversary celebrations. Students, faculty members and outsiders thronged to the counter to dig into their Egg Burma Toasts, Garlic Breads, double chais and special instant noodles for one last time. Besides the food, the 58-year-old, who happily obliged the students for a selfie, will be missed for a variety of reasons — right from treating students specially to handing out chhuttas in times of need and giving complimentary sheera.

 As soon as the news about his exit was announced, students planned their visit to the college with friends to eat to their heart’s delight. The counter, which was a respite for hostel students during exams and used to be open till 9.30 pm, was reasonable and so, many hostelites were among those who dropped in. Vishnu Ghariwala, a student of MSc, Geology, said, “It was a great relief during exams, as we didn’t have to step out. His home-style food was reasonable; where else will we get an unlimited thaali for 40 bucks? For us, Anna has been like a mother.” Sarjan Sheth, another ex-student who used to stay in the hostel, came in specially for his farewell. He said, “Even if he ran out of thaalis, you could always get some noodles or egg bhurji. Anna’s pyaar made all the difference to the food.”
 
  
  
 We also came across a few youngsters who shifted their plans only to meet Anna on his last day at the college. While waiting for her order at the counter, Shivani Suresh, a TYBSc student said, “Why is he leaving? He's like a legacy.” The youngster chose to miss a few hours of her internship to grab a bite of her favourite  . Sylvester Parkhey, a final year MSc life science student, who was supposed to go to Nashik for his vacations, postponed his trip. “For us hostelites, he has been like our parent. During demonetisation, he helped us with money and would also generally advise us,” he said.
 
 Talking about his stint at the college, Anna said, “When I first came here (in 1984), there used to be only five-six types of food items. I reinvented my menu time and again and even took suggestions from students; the Egg Burma Toast is a result of one such suggestion.” While he has plans to run his own counter in some college, he’s waiting for the right opportunity. However, he maintains that he will miss the college and everything associated with it, more so because his elder daughter, too, has studied here. Overwhelmed by all the love and comments, he was at a loss of words. “Old students milkar jaa rahe hain… Main miss karega canteen ko. If I ever get the chance to come back, I will return without thinking twice,” he said, teary-eyed.
 
 
  
 
