NEW DELHI: Mission Buniyaad, a   by Delhi government to group children from classes III to IX on their maths and   abilities, was launched by deputy CM and education minister   on Wednesday. The campaign aimed at 76,000 students in classes III to V in   schools and classes VI to IX in DoE schools expects to achieve results by July.

 An assessment by directorate of education in January-February found that 2.5 lakh students from classes 6 to 8 needed help with reading grade-level text and 2.2 lakh students in basic maths.
 
 The campaign will be held in two phases, the first from April 2 to May 10 during which it would be a part of the regular school schedule, and second from May 11 to June 10 when it will be merged with summer camp.
 
 The aim of the exercise is to make sure there are no students in the Neo-Nishtha group by the end of the second phase. Neo Nishtha students are those who have trouble identifying letters and need help to progress to reading sentences and text.
 
 In the three-month campaign, the department aims at making all students in classes III to V learn to read short stories fluently, write short sentences in Hindi or  , and solve basic maths involving subtraction in two digits, simple division and word problems. For classes VI to VIII, students should be able to read advanced text, write responses in one or more sentences, and solve maths operations involving division of three digits by one, and word problems.
 
 During the first phase, teachers will be expected to spend at least one hour every day for improving reading and writing proficiency in Hindi/Urdu. This is beside one hour of library activities. Sources said a new baseline assessment will be done of students entering Class VI from municipal schools in the new session before grouping them.
 
 After the first phase, students will have to undergo a test in May. To ensure maximum attendance during the summer camps, parental workshops have been organised from April 7 to 15. Teachers and heads of school will interact with parents and explain the importance of the campaign.
 
 Sisodia said the inability of children to read and write fluently is a reflection on the failure of the school system. He asked teachers to reach out to parents to ensure all children are able to read, write and do basic maths to attain grade-appropriate learning outcomes.
 
 
