PATNA: Railways has beefed up security on running trains and its premises in all the five divisions of East Central Railway (ECR) – Danapur, Mughalsarai, Dhanbad, Sonepur and Samastipur – in view of  . The   and GRP officials held a meeting at the headquarters of the ECR in Hajipur on Friday to discuss security measures.

 ECR CPRO   said the RPF posts have been put on high alert and asked to keep a close watch on the activities of miscreants, who usually drug passengers and loot their valuables on running trains.
 
 “Railways has deployed additional RPF personnel at   and other crowded stations like Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Danapur, Pataliputra, Dhanbad, Barauni, Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Samastipur, Gaya and Mughalsarai from passengers’ safety point of view,” Kumar said, adding the RPF and GRP have been tasked to carry out joint surveillance at major stations during Holi.
 
 Danapur RPF commandant   said women RPF personnel are providing proper security cover to women passengers on the running trains. “RPF escort party teams have been asked to check coaches, including general bogies, of all mail and express trains thoroughly. RPF men will check incidents of loot, snatching, luggage lifting and drug menace during Holi,” Mishra said.
 
 The RPF commandant said women RPF constables headed by sub-inspectors are also keeping a close surveillance at Patna Junction and other busy stations of the division. “RPF personnel have been performing their duty in coordination with the GRP men. Long distance mail and express trains either passing or originating from the ECR’s five divisions are heavily escorted by both RPF and GRP personnel,” he said, adding RPF men are making random luggage checks at Patna Junction, Pataliputra Junction, Danapur and Ara stations.
 
 Railway security men have also started intensive luggage checks at the Karbigahiya end of Patna Junction. RPF men are escorting Holi special trains to ensure foolproof security to passengers.
 
 According to sources, railways is also staging street plays at different places to create awareness among passengers. Pamphlets and posters are being displayed at crowded stations, warning passengers not to accept eatables and tea from fellow stranger passengers during journey. 
 
 
