COIMBATORE: Chief minister   inaugurated the Police Museum on   (SBI) Road in the city on Thursday. He said the museum would help the public and students to know about the Tamil Nadu police.

 Palaniswami arrived at the Coimbatore International Airport from Chennai on Thursday morning. He inaugurated a blood donation camp on the airport premises. 
 
 According to sources, the public will be allowed inside the Police Museum without any entry fee for the first one month. 
 
 “We have fixed an entry fee of Rs 25 for children (3 to 8-year-old), Rs 50 for adults (above 18-year-old) and Rs 100 for foreigners. After getting permission from higher officials in Chennai, fee would be collected,” said a police officer.
 
 People can visit the museum between 10am and 1pm and between 2pm and 4pm (except Monday). ‘Police Museum’ is housed in a 150-year-old building. The building was bought by British police officer FA Hamilton in 1918 and it was named as  . In 1951, the Tamil Nadu police took custody of the building. 
 
 Meanwhile, former city police commissioner A Amalraj decided to renovate the building while retaining its British-era originality. 
 
 ‘Torpedo’, a cigar-shaped self-propelled missile designed to be fired from a ship or submarine or dropped from an aircraft, is on display at the museum. 
 
 The ‘CET 53 M’ torpedo is a Soviet-designed anti-submarine, anti-ship missile. This became operational in India in 1969. It was presented by the Indian Navy to the museum in 2017.
 
 Another attraction at the museum is the fast interceptor boat built in Kolkata in 2009. This boat was commissioned in 2010 in the coastal security group of the Tamil Nadu police. It was decommissioned in 2016.
 
 Midget submarine ‘Gokulan 2-93’, built by the Sea Tigers, a branch of the   (LTTE) in 1993, is also in display at the museum. It was seized by the police while being constructed near Mahabalipuram. The submarine can accommodate two crew members. 
 
 Various types of cartridges like .303, 410 blank, .76.62 mm plastic, .22 mm, 12 bore and 9mm are also on display. Police swords, 81 mm rocket launcher, weapons seized from LTTE, Veerappan, his associates and weapons seized from Malayur Mambattiyan are also in display. 
 
 
