NAGPUR: As opposed to an allocation of Rs 1,550 crore in the state budget last year, only Rs 571 crore has been allocated to   this year. The scheme, known as the   until last year, is aimed at providing free quality critical care to low income families. 

 The reduction in allocation has met with flak from many medical experts who feel that this will reduce the benefit to poor families. 
 
 MJPJAY officer-in-charge at   Dr   said that the allocated amount is sufficient to run the scheme. “Most of the amount allotted used to be unutilized and locked in,” he said. 
 
 The most common problem people in the state are facing to avail the scheme is improper name on Aadhaar or ration card, he said, adding that 1491 patients have been treated under the scheme in Mayo Hospital till date. 
 
 State president of Indian Medical Association, YS   claims that the purpose of the scheme has not been achieved. “Pre-availability of drugs is an issue, and the dedicated shops are less. Though pharmacological contents of the medicines that are provided at the shops are same as other medicines, the components are sub-standard, making them less effective. Quality and availability are major issues,” he says.
 
 Chief executive officer of Gillurkar Multi Speciality hospital, a private hospital empanelled in the scheme, Dr Vinod Meshram shared the difficulties of private hospitals in relation to this scheme. 
 
 "The rates for most of the surgeries are too low than the actual cost, such as the allotment for trauma, brain surgery cancer, and so on. In order to avoid losses, our hospital has only accepted to offer selected speciality for which the doctors are willing to work at the price prescribed by government. Facing the same problem, other private hospitals have to excuse patients by saying that a particular treatment is not available at their centre,” he said. 
 
 Meshram added that several diseases were not a part of the list of diseases that fall under this scheme, Sickle Cell being one of them, despite its high prevalence in poor people in Maharashtra. 
 
 33 hospitals in Nagpur fall under the scheme, of which four are government, namely — GMCH, Daga, Super Speciality and IGMCH. Meditrina hospital has recently been de-panelled, said cluster head of the third party insurance scheme,  . 
 
 Apart from its name, there has been no amendments in the scheme, said district coordinator for MJPJAY Dr Dheeraj Wasekar, adding that he could not comment on the reduction in allocation. “This year, the number of diseases will be increased to 1,100,” he said.
 
 
 
