PANAJI: After the state government’s move to increase licence fees for casinos, onshore casino operators on Friday said that they were ready to pay the higher fees if the government permitted them to undertake live gaming. Addressing a press conference, representatives of two companies said that the hike in license fees was disproportionate.

 “Land casino fees should be reduced by 50-75% whereas off-shore casino license fees should be increased by 50%,” partner and promoter of Grand 7 casino, Kundan  , said.
 
 
  
 
 
 The state government has hiked the casino license fees for 2018-19 for onshore casinos according to the area of the casino, while the license fees for offshore casinos have been categorized as per the carrying capacity of the vessel.
 
 “We have a proposal: Land based casinos should be allowed to have live gaming just like Sikkim,” Shetye said. “If they do away with this live gaming and electronic gaming differentiation, the state government can earn at least Rs 100-150 crores revenue. If we are given live gaming, then I am ready to pay the new fees.”
 
 There are six offshore casinos and nine on-shore casinos operational in the state, with the offshore casinos operating out of six vessels anchored in the river Mandovi. The on-shore casinos operate out of five-star hotels and resorts and are scattered across the coastal belt.
 
 While the government has permitted live gaming on offshore casinos, onshore or land casinos are only permitted to allow electronic gambling. 
 
 “No ship comes under 200 people capacity, and on any given weekend and on public holidays, there are more than 700 people on the ship including the crew, and the vessel hits the river bed,” Shetye said.
 
 Several stakeholders from the land-based casino were present but chose not to speak on record. They said that if the government appointed a gaming commissioner, irregularities prevalent in the industry could be eradicated.
 
 Shetye also said that he was ready to move Grand 7 casino to   near the new airport if the state government provided land and a live gaming license.
 
 
