GANDHINAGAR: After   president Rahul Gandhi, while campaigning in Karnataka, said that he is ready to be the PM in 2019 if the Congress wins enough seats,  , the Rajya Sabha MP from Gujarat and former political secretary to Sonia Gandhi, reiterated that   would be the party’s PM candidate in the 2019  . Patel also said that Gandhi’s statement had been distorted.

  Ahmed Patel said, “His (Rahul Gandhi’s) statement was distorted. He was asked a question that if the Congress gets a the majority in 2019, would he be the PM. Will any leader will say no one from his party will become PM? He does not mean that he has arrogance of becoming the PM. There are many leaders who are full of arrogance. In Goa, without taking anybody into confidence, how did Rajnath Singh announce that Narendra Modi would be the Prime Ministerial candidate? Sushmaji and other leaders were shocked. “He (Rahul) does not have such arrogance. He is not forcing the party in any manner. After all, he is the president of the Congress party. A reply depends on the question. If you consider his reply in the context of the question, you will know in what he said was in reference to that. He is not a power seeker but if he were to say he doesn’t want to be PM the party cadre will be demoralised. Rahulji will be our PM candidate in 2019. When Soniaji declined to be PM there was a major uproar in the party, as everybody believed that the party won those many seats because of her.”
 
 
 
 
 About Congress forming government in 2019, Patel said, “In 2019, there will be a non-BJP government for sure and the Congress will be leading from the front. The way BJP damaged Gujarat it has applied the same model to the country and in 2019 it will be out.”
 
 
 
 
 Ahmed Patel, one of the strongest Gujarat Congress leaders for the last two and a half decades, who played a key role in national politics as political secretary to former Sonia Gandhi, has again became active in Gujarat politics after the new Congress president, Rahul Gandhi, dropped him from the core national team.
 
 After a long time away, Patel led a delegation that met the governor and addressed a press conference, while Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda and leader of the opposition Paresh Dhanani didn’t speak. Patel also announced that he would lead a public rally of farmers in the coming days. On Wednesday, Patel’s sudden moves were a hot topic in the Congress circuit and also in the BJP. In the saffron party, there was talk that it would gain if Ahmed Patel were to visibly take the lead in the Gujarat Congress.
 
 When asked about his move to lead the delegation to the governor and address a press conference, which is generally done by state-level leaders, Patel smiled and said, “I was always active in Gujarat politics, but unfortunately the BJP used my name to polarize the atmosphere. In every election, BJP raises the Pakistan issue. PM Narendrabhai and Amitbhai have special love for me and always make me the CM candidate despite me saying that I am not the candidate. I carry out whatever responsibilities the party gives me. The BJP will every time bring up some Pakistan issue.
 
 “No leader from the Congress ever went to Jinnah’s mazaar, no Congress leader went to Nawaz Sharif’s home, but the BJP uses the communal card in every election,” Patel said.
 
 
