SHILLONG: Since its creation in 1972, Meghalaya has only ever returned a decisive verdict once. And so it was that this year too, the major contestants,   and National People’s Party (NPP), found themselves short of the 31 seats required to form the government. By Saturday evening, the situation lent itself to the distinct possibility of horse-trading to create a working alliance.

 Four regional parties,   (UDP), Hill State People’s Democratic Party, People’s Democratic Front and Khun Hynniewtrep National Awakening Movement, are poised to play a key role in government formation as they together hold 13 seats. There are three independents too.
 
 It is to be seen how UDP, which is a constituent of BJP-led North East Democratic Alliance, responds to the overtures of NPP and  . Its six seats have suddenly acquired an importance beyond the smallness of the number.
 
 NPP chief   Sangma has indicated that his party would form a “non-Congress” government, calling the election results a mandate against the ruling Congress. He has not spelt out who would lead such a government, but speculation is rife that Conrad himself or his sister Agatha could become the candidate, mainly to attract the regional parties. Conrad, who is a member of Lok Sabha, did not contest the assembly polls and tactfully kept his party away from BJP during the election to avoid being called a supporter of Hindutva forces.
 
 BJP declared in New Delhi its intention to form the government in the state with “allies and friendly parties”, indicating perhaps that it will support NPP because it has only two seats to its name. The Congress too hastily sent consummate negotiators Ahmed Patel and   to   to prevent Meghalaya from going the Manipur and Goa way, where BJP last year manufactured a majority despite not even being the single largest party Assam minister and BJP strategist Himanta Biswa Sarma too reached Shillong on Saturday and is expected to do everything to put together a grouping that will prevent Congress from regaining power. In 2013, Congress fell short by three seats, but made the numbers with the help of independents. This time, the deficit of 10 seats is more difficult to plug.
 
