NEW DELHI: With the deadline to pay interim use conversion charge getting over on January 15, the   monitoring committee has decided to resume   action from Tuesday.

 Shop owners in 106 local complexes had been asked to deposit the charges at Rs 22,274 per sq m for misuse of land to their respective municipal corporations. The earlier rate was Rs 89,000, which was reduced with the condition that traders would have to file an affidavit stating they will pay the remaining amount, if any, when the final rate is fixed by DDA.
 
 South corporation officials reported a five-fold increase in collection of conversion charges. “We have collected over Rs 25 crore from December 22 till now. While Rs 7.14 crore was collected from west zone, Rs 8.77 crore is from south zone, Rs 8.20 crore from central zone and Rs 1.44 crore from Najafgarh zone,” said a senior corporation official.
 
 Central zone covers markets of Greater Kailash, Lajpat Nagar and Defence Colony, while south zone has Hauz Khas, Chhatarpur, Vasant Vihar, among others.
 
 South mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat said that confusion over the deadline still exists and DDA notification should be followed. “Further relaxation should be provided. Our aim is to regularise these places and not harass or victimise traders,” he said.
 
 Traders’ unions and market associations have also argued about confusion over the deadline as a gazette notification was issued by DDA on December 29 according to which the amnesty scheme “should be available till June 30.”
 
 Manmohan Singh, general secretary of Hauz Khas market traders’ association, asked, “Shouldn’t the gazette notification by the government, which came a day after the committee’s notification, supersede it?”
 
 An empowered committee member, however, said that there was no confusion over the deadline. “No new notification has been issued and action against violators will resume,” the member added.
 
 North corporation mayor Preety Agarwal said that the civic body has asked the committee to give 48 hours prior notice of sealing to the traders.
 
