BHUBANESWAR: Elaborate security arrangements have been made across Odisha, especially in Maoist-hit areas, in view of call by Maoists to observe Republic Day tomorrow as 'black day'. 

 Security has been tightened across the the state to ensure smooth and peaceful celebrations and prevent any untoward incident, said Director General of Police R P Sharma. 
 
 A close vigil is being maintained in sensitive areas, while security personnel have been deployed and patrolling stepped up wherever necessary, he said. 
 
 In Maoist-affected districts like Malkangiri, Koraput, Rayagada, Kandhamal and Kalahandi, where the red rebels have reportedly asked people to observe the day as 'black day', special security measures have been taken to ensure incident-free celebrations, a senior police official said. 
 
 Posters were seen in a couple of places in Rayagada district asking people to boycott Republic Day celebrations and observe it as black day , sources said. 
 
 In Bhubaneswar, NSG personnel have been deployed for the first time till January 27 as part of security arrangements for the day, a senior police official said. 
 
 "At least 25 platoons of police force would take care of the law and order situation during this time and would be led by a team of 150 officers," Commissioner of Police Y B Khurania said. 
 
 In addition, the specialised   (QAFT) of the commissionerate police would also be deployed in the city during this period, he said. 
 
 The security arrangements are being made as per a direction from the union home ministry and based on intelligence inputs, Khurania said. 
 
 The commissionerate of police, Bhubaneswar-Cuttack has decided to put the venue for the Republic Day function at the Mahatma Gandhi Marg under   surveillance to maintain a strict vigil, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, police teams have been formed for conducting spot checks at bus stands, railway stations and other sensitive places. 
 
 A 12-member NSG commando team would be on duty near the   sitting place at the Mahatma Gandhi Marg during the Republic Day official celebration where Governor S C Jamir is slated to unfurl the tri-colour and take salute, a senior police officer said. 
 
 Security has also been tightened in Cuttack where Chief Minister   is scheduled to take salute at the parade.
