In the latest episode of  , Kartik meets a young girl, Kritika in Naira's building who takes care of him and offers him a place to stay for a while.

 
 The Singhanias and Goenkas come face to face at the wedding. As Luv and Kush greet Naksh and Kirti, they look around for Naira and wonder why aren't the two families talking to each other. Kartik bonds with Kritika, who offers to make tea for him.
 
 Naira and Chitti miss Kritika, who hadn't come to visit them that day. Bhabimaa apologises to Swarna and requests her to forgive her family and renew their relations. Swarna refuses to listen and says the Singhanias would never be able to understand her pain of losing a child and walks off.
 
 Kirti tells Manish about the plan to make Kartik and Naira meet and wishes that her plan succeeds. Kritika meets Naira and asks her to make some ginger tea for her, which makes her remember Kartik.
 
  
  
 Kritika tells Naira that she had invited the man who got stuck in a lift at her home. Naira scolds her for inviting strangers without her parents' permission. She takes Naira with her to see Kartik but by the time they come, he leaves the house, leaving a thank you note for Kritika.
 
 Naitik calls Naksh to tell him about Naira's admission but the latter cuts off the call. Naitik feels guilty for staying away from his family for Naira's sake. Naksh cries, missing his father and calls Naitik biased towards Naira. Luv and Kush hear him talking about Imperial college, where Naira was studying and get excited thinking that Kartik, too was there. They rush to inform Manish about the same.
 
  
  
 As Manish hears the news about Naira studying in Imperial College, he gets shocked and smiles, feeling that his prayers had been answered. Swarna hears him talking about Naira and cries. She says that she does not want Naira to come back in Kartik's life.
 
 In Mumbai, Naitik and Chitti wish Naira luck for her new journey and Kritika gifts her a pouch with a frog made on it, which makes her emotional. Kartik gets a call from Swarna, asking him to come home. He decides to go back.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
