CHENNAI: The new political entrants in Tamil Nadu - read actors   and Rajinikanth - are similar to fireworks that disappear after a flash, deputy chief minister   said on Saturday. People will see through their camouflage, he said, launching a new party organ in late chief minister J  's and unveiling a bronze statue of her to mark her 70th birth anniversary. 

 Chief minister  , who was present on the occasion with OPS, trained his guns on arch rival   and her family, but steered clear of attacking Rajini and Kamal.
 
 Reflecting the dichotomous power structure in the party, EPS and OPS held a remote each to unveil Jayalalithaa's statue.
 
 The function began behind schedule as Palaniswami reached the party office late. It was choked with ministers, MPs, MLAs and senior leaders. Sculptor Prasad, who made the statue, was honoured with a gold ring.
 
 Panneerselvam said traitors were trying to break the party and the government, but they would not be successful. "No one can even dream of dividing us. We are ready to face any election any time," said Panneerselvam, reacting to rebel leader and RK Nagar leader T T V Dhinakaran's vow to bring down the government.
 
 He said new parties, which were rising on the horizon, and the people behind them had camouflaged themselves with makeup and pretending to be good people. "All these will disappear. As   said, this party will remain for 100 more years and serve the people. Our party symbol, two leaves, represent MGR and Jayalalithaa," said Panneerselvam. "Already parties, which fought with us have become deflated balloons," he said. Panneerselvam called upon workers to support the new party organ by subscribing to it.
 
 Recalling Jayalalithaa's handling of party affairs, Palaniswami said, "The party has faced several hurdles. There were many attempts to bring down the government after Amma's (Jayalalithaa) death. But the dreams of our adversaries to bring down the government and capture power will never come true." When Jayalalithaa was alive, people looked for announcements from her under rule 110 of the assembly, because they always reshaped the lives of common people, he said.
 
 
