Ludhiana: Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) has entered into an agreement with New Malwa Agri Works, Ferozepur, for the commercialization of PAU Super SMS (Straw Management System) technology. 

 Dr Navtej Singh Bains, director of research, PAU, and Swarn Singh of New Malwa Agri Works, signed the memorandum of agreement (MoA), under which the university has offered non-exclusive rights to the company to manufacture and sell PAU Super SMS technology.
 
 Dr Bains said the university has developed several technologies for use in agriculture and allied disciplines. “To commercialize these technologies, the University aims to tie-up with the industry having expertise in large scale production and marketing of the technology,” he added. Dr Bains said this agreement would be beneficial for effective straw management.
 
 Dr Ashok Kumar, director of extension education, said, “PAU Super SMS is an attachment for combine harvester for chopping and uniform spreading of straw.”
 
 Dr S S Chahal, adjunct professor, technology marketing and IPR cell, said the university has signed a total of 80 MoAs till date, of which 36 are for PAU Super SMS.
 
 PAU starts agri work experience programme at Begowal
 
 Ludhiana: The department of extension education and communication management, Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), organized a Rural Agricultural Work Experience (RAWE) programme at Begowal village, Doraha, under the guidance of Dr Jatinder Kaur Gulati, dean, College of Home Science. 
 
 During the programme, final-year BSc (home science) students would conduct different activities in the village for 40 days. They would also explore daily lifestyle and day-to-day problems of the local villagers and plan need-based activities. They would help people solve their problems along with transfer of area specific technologies/practices.
 
 Earlier, an orientation programme was conducted under the supervision of Dr Kiranjot Sidhu, head of extension education and communication management, PAU. Heads of various departments of the College of Home Science apprised the students of the specific activities to be conducted in the village. 
 
 Dr Kanwaljit Kaur, in charge of the programme, said, “Women and youth would be sensitized about different social, health, environment related issues. Efforts would be made to motivate rural families to adopt energy saving technologies, kitchen and herbal gardening along with reducing social expenditure measures.”
 
 Training course on fruit crops
 
 A five-day training course on ‘High Density Planting and Canopy Management in Fruit Crops’ began at Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) for the horticulture officers of Jammu and Kashmir. The training has been designed under the aegis of the directorate of extension education, PAU.
 
 Programme coordinator Dr T S Riar, professor of extension education, exhorted the officers to adopt PAU technologies in their own fields and contribute to the central food grain kitty. Formation of farmers’ clubs can play an important role in making agriculture sustainable and profitable, he added. 
 
 Dr Riar informed that “the officers would be educated about mango, litchi and grapes cultivation in addition nutritious gardening”.
 
 
