Navi Mumbai: The   between   Sudhakar Shinde and ruling   led by House leader   has widened after the budget presentation last week. The BJP has decided to bring a no-confidence motion in a special general body meeting, which will be convened soon, to oust Shinde, as local BJP public representatives have reportedly failed to convince the chief minister to shift the commissioner.

 However, the opposition alliance of Peasants and Workers Party (PWP)-Congress-Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) will oppose the motion and hold road shows against the BJP. Citizen groups are also upset over the developments and have decided to take out morchas against the BJP’s move. While opposition parties are heaping praises of Shinde for his honesty and transparency, the BJP is accusing him of being an incapable administrator who has done little for the city.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Pritam Mhatre, opposition leader in the   House and PWP corporator said, “The ruling party is going to commit a blunder by moving a no-confidence motion for no substantial reason. It’s an ego issue that is haunting the BJP. The commissioner is an upright man and a visionary who does not compromise when it comes to development activities of the city. We will oppose this and reach out to the citizens explaining his good work.” 
 
 “Exasperated with the style of functioning of the commissioner we have taken this call to bring a no-confidence motion in a special general body meeting soon after the March 19 general body,” a BJP member said. The citizens groups are batting in support of Shinde to stop his transfer and are urging the government to allow Shinde to complete his full term.
 
 Meanwhile, PCMC commissioner Sudhakar Shinde told TOI, “I have always taken the peoples’ representatives into confidence for the betterment of the city. The residents will speak about my work.” 
 
 The ruling party is going to commit a blunder by moving a no-confidence motion for no substantial reason. It’s an ego issue that is haunting the BJP
 
 
