THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Mayor V K Prasanth has recommended department-level disciplinary action against Dr Prem Jain, the   of   (  - Animal Birth Control) programme in the city after the project came to a standstill owing to serious administrative lapses. 

 The recommendation has been submitted to department of animal husbandry, the parent department of Prem Jain and mayor has communicated the matter to minister for animal husbandry and principal secretary of the department. The health wing has also decided to remove Prem Jain from the post of implementing officer of R-ABC and the note will be presented in the upcoming council meeting.
 
 The ambitious project launched by the city corporation in 2017 ran into trouble following reported lack of co-ordination between the health standing committee and ABC team. The corporation had decided to modernize the ABC facility at Pettah and officials were directed to conduct ABC in a parallel facility until modernization work was completed. 
 
 According to corporation officials, Prem Jain, who was responsible for arranging a parallel facility, let the existing structure at Pettah be demolished without ensuring that the alternative place had the requisite facilities to conduct   and vaccination of stray dogs. 
 
 Mayor V K Prasanth said that Prem Jain did not act as per directions to be taken ahead of demolition of existing facility. “We had an alternative plan using pre-fab constructions at Pettah, however he didn’t act as per the directions,” said Prasanth. 
 
 The kennels, the dogs and entire facility was shifted to veterinary hospital at Thiruvallom and public has now risen in protest against the functioning of ABC facility at Thiruvallom. Even in Pettah, corporation is facing legal cases over the implementation of ABC and the trust of Kanjiravilakom Devi Temple and residents association are up in arms against corporation at Pettah. 
 
 “The corporation did not manage the scheme very well. Often dogs were sterilized and were let off on the streets. It posed serious danger to people and if corporation decides to bring back the facility here, we are going to launch strong protests,” said S Sanalkumar, secretary, Kanjiravilakom Devi Temple Trust. 
 
 Health officials said that mayor V K Prasanth had reportedly pulled up Prem Jain for sabotaging the scheme. Mayor’s office confirmed that disciplinary action has been recommended against Prem Jain. The officials have also reported that of the Rs 1.92 crore allocated for the R-ABC scheme, not a single rupee was spent and the officials had to divert funds towards housing schemes to avoid lapse of funds.
 
 With complaints emerging about way of conduct of the scheme, health standing committee chairman K Sreekumar is likely to face a tough time in the council meeting. He has already been under fire for his failure in co-ordinating waste management schemes and the row over ABC has further weakened his stand. K Sreekumar did not respond to TOI. 
 
 Prem Jain, however ruled out all allegations and said that all decisions were executed with the knowledge of the ruling council. “The decision to shift the facility to Thiruvallom as part of modernization work was made in the hospital development committee. It was promptly communicated to corporation. They are now holding me responsible for the failure,” said Prem Jain.
 
 
