Seventeen-year-old Suneesh Ravi’s parents have already charted a course for his future. However, the choice was not easy as Suneesh is an average student and his parents, Ravi PS and Rudra government employees. They first enquired about the admissions and fees at private colleges in the country for engineering. “On an average, you had to shell out close to `15 lakh in a good college as fees alone, and another `4 lakh for living expenses for the whole course,” says Ravi, who mulled options in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala.

 Instead, they opted for York University in Canada for a similar course where the fee for four years comes up to `28 lakh. “Suneesh can also work part-time while in Canada and that will cover his living expenses. Also, based on his grades, he can apply for scholarship if eligible,” says Ravi, who works as a bank clerk.
 
 Like Suneesh’s parents, over the past two years, irrespective of their financial status,   have been considering and using options abroad for studies, say   experts.
 
 Education consultant Manoj P, who has been in the field for the past 25 years, attributes it to a variety of reasons including the rising cost of education in India, prevailing unemployment rate, quality of education, handsome pay packages and opportunities to settle abroad.
 
 “In today’s context, you can do an MBA from Canada or Australia for the same fee as you do in Kerala. And it’s instant employment in these countries. For a bachelor’s degree in UK, you would probably have pay `20-25 lakh and you also have the chance to fund part of it from part time jobs in these countries,” he says. “Not surprisingly, it’s the common people, who have average financial earnings, who approach us to select these colleges to send their children.”
 
 Another education consultant Denny Thomas Vattakunnel says, “Now, everyone wants to immediately get a job after doing a course. This unfortunately is not happening in India, especially Kerala. However, you just have to spend `10 lakh in a community college in Canada, and you get a job and also a chance to settle abroad if you prefer.”
 
 Some of the colleges such as those in European countries rank higher than the top institutes in India such as the IITs and IIMs, and are yet more affordable and accessible to the students. “That’s a big deal,” says 22-year-old Nithin Das, who has secured admission to Queensland University of Technology, one of the highest ranked institutes in the world for MBA.
 
 “Getting into an IIM or major business schools is not easy for all of us,” says Nithin, who had completed BCom from a college in Palakkad.
 He will have to shell out `30 lakh as academic fee for the entire course. However, he is confident that he will able to make `10 lakh from part time jobs alone. “Australia has highest minimum wages and you can earn `1,000 an hour. Also, we can work unlimited hours during the vacations and that would be more than enough to take care of the living expenses,” he says.
 
 Incidentally, Nithin had also got a `7 lakh scholarship from another university in Australia, but picked Queensland University as it was ranked higher.
 Another reason for more parents opting to send their children abroad is that “the banks too are aggressively giving out loans”, says Sunil Vijayan, an MBA graduate who aspires to do his PhD abroad.
 
 “A few years ago, education loans were available to only a few people and it came with several conditions. However, that has changed with banks now offering loans to people from all strata of the society,” he says.
 
 Sunil explains that though the interest rates are still at a higher side of 10.5 to 11%, students can cover 20 to 30% of their fees working part time. “Also certain countries such as Australia and New Zealand offer post-study work visas. This means if you get employed within the period, the salary in these countries is often enough to clear off the loan within a year,” he says.
 
 While the US and the UK have been sought after destinations since the start of the millennium, Australia, New Zealand, Ireland and Canada too have now turned hotspots for education among Malayalis.
 
 The job prospects are often the most attractive feature even for non-technical courses, says education consultant Manoj. “You can do a nursing course in one of Top 10 colleges in Australia and get instant employment while in India, to get a job you would again have study higher. Meanwhile, Canada has community colleges that allow you do affordable diploma courses,” he says.
 
 The other advantages are that the students improve their soft skills and build a network through the international exposure, says Denny. “When you are studying in a campus with students of close to 100 nationalities, you are automatically building a network that you can use in the future for job opportunities around the globe,” he says.
 
 While English speaking countries are the most preferred by the students, other European nations such as Germany and France are doing their bit to attract students from India.
 
 “These countries are looking for people who speak English to help improve the language skills of their native students as well. So, our students have an advantage and can get concessions. Also depending on academic performance, these governments also completely fund the education,” says Denny, adding that some of the colleges in these countries are among the top 25 in the world.
 
 Sunil, who is a private bank manager, provides a rider, however. “While education abroad has become affordable, at the end of the day, you have to put in the effort to study hard and finish the course. Only then you can cash in on the advantages,” he says.
 
 The bank employee says that some of his friends, who had got through the initial hurdle of getting into the colleges, slacked off during the course and that didn’t do them any favours, especially in terms of paying out the education loans. “Ultimately, education is an investment. But like every other venture, you have to put in your effort to make the best of it,” he says. 
 
