MUMBAI: Tuesday was yet another sultry day for   with no relief even during the early morning hours as minimum temperatures rose to 27C, the highest for April in the last three years. In the evening, there was light rainfall and gusty winds in the neighbouring regions of Thane and Raigad. However, they did not do much to alleviate the   in Mumbai. 

 Last year the highest minimum temperature in April was 26C and in 2016, it was 26.2C. 
 
 Citizens complained that heat could be felt from early morning itself. Ghatkopar resident Mansi Shah said that usually mornings are pleasant. But on Tuesday morning when she went for a walk, it was already very hot. “By afternoon, it only got hotter,” she said. 
  
  
 As the difference between minimum and maximum temperatures has reduced, it has added to discomfort levels, said a Met department official. 
 
 The minimum temperature at   was 27C, which was 1.9 degree Celsius above normal, and at Santacruz was 26.6C, which was 2.4C above normal. On Tuesday, the maximum temperature at the Colaba observatory was 34.2C, 1.8C above normal, and at the Santacruz observatory, it was 35.6C, 2.8C above normal. 
 
  resident Mahendra Hemdev said that on Tuesday when he stepped out of house, it was evident the temperatures had risen. “It was much warmer compared to the past few days,” he said.
 
 Ajay Kumar, scientist at  , attributed the heat to high humidity levels. “Maximum temperatures have risen only by 1-2C. It is the high humidity that is causing the discomfort,” he said. Humidity levels recorded by IMD’s Colaba observatory was78% and Santacruz observatory was 58% respectively.
 
 Meanwhile explaining the sudden rain and winds, weathermen said it was owing to convection. K S Hosalikar, IMD deputy director-general (western region), said, “The north-south wind discontinuity from north Madhya Maharashtra to Rayalaseema across north interiors of Karnataka and a cyclonic circulation triggered the thunderstorm with gusty winds activity. This may continue over the same region on Wednesday.” The rainfall brought down temperatures in Thane and Raigad.
 
 
