KOLKATA: The Calcutta   on Thursday came to the   who, according to her family’s allegations, was kept in forced confinement at a   for alleged non-payment of bills.

 CIT Road resident Vandana Bagchi finally returned home on Thursday afternoon, after a 52-day stay at Columbia Asia Hospital, following a court directive to cops to ensure her release from the hospital. She was admitted there on December 13 after suffering a cardiac arrest and was allegedly forcibly kept there since December 26. The hospital released her after the court heard the matter and even waived off her dues, which prompted the court to dispose of the petition.
 
  
 The 64-year-old was taken to hospital on December 13 by her husband, Subir Bagchi, after a massive cardiac arr-est and severe respiratory distress, their son, Siddhartha Bagchi, told TOI.
 
 Doctors told Vandana Bagchi’s family that she was fit to be discharged on December 26, by when her husband, a businessman, had already paid Rs 1.1 lakh in five instalments. The hospital, a day before that, had told him that the total bills had come to around Rs 3 lakh. But, when he and his son went to clear the bills on December 26, they were told that the total billed amount was a little over Rs 7 lakh, Siddhartha alleged.
 
 “We questioned the   but never said we would not pay. We told them there appeared to be some errors as the total billed amount could not shoot up overnight by Rs 4 lakh. We requested that they release my mother and give us some window period to pay off the bills. They refused,” he alleged.
 
 Sidhdartha’s sister, Sunayana Bagchi (Das), who used to visit her mother every day, said: “They stopped giving her food and water. Then they stopped medicines and, finally, they stopped cleaning her room,” she alleged.
 
 The hospital flatly denied this allegation. “At no point was she denied any medical care during her stay in hospital after discharge and nor was there any harassment as claimed by the family. Columbia Asia always cares for its patients,” Columbia Asia Hospital managing director Arindam Banerjee said.
 
 Siddhartha on December 28 first went to the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission. But, with no redress coming, the family moved the Calcutta HC.
 
 The matter came up for hearing before the division bench of Justice Joymalya Bagchi and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj. The Bagchis’ counsel, Soumya Dasgupta, told the court that such wrongful confinement was not only unethical but also illegal. The hospital, he said, was unable to explain the reasons for such a steep surge in the bill overnight.
 
 The court acted promptly. Justice Bagchi directed Salt Lake (North) cops to immediately secure her release from hospital and report back to it by 2 pm. Around 2.30 pm, when the bench reconvened after recess, state public prosecutor Saswata Gopal Mukhopadhay informed the court that Vandana had been released from hospital.
 
 It was then that the hospital’s counsel, Shibaji Das, claimed in court that one post-dated cheque submitted by the family had bounced. He claimed the hospital had never misbehaved with the patient’s family for non-payment of bills and added that the hospital had not kept her back but it was her family that refused to take her back.
 
 Das also said the hospital had decided to waive off all pending bills while releasing her. The bench then disposed of the matter.
 
 
