MUMBAI: To reduce the powers of the elected office-bearers of the   and to further empower former cricketers, a draft constitution of the board will have another clause which will be finalised on May 11 by the Supreme Court which states: ‘At least three out of five persons of the Tours,   ought to have played a minimum of 25 First-Class matches.’

 As per the existing constitution of the BCCI, the tours and fixtures committee consists of five persons, basically one representative from each zone (the Vice-President from that zone). While the   has retained that, it has added a condition that mandates the presence of three former cricketers in the panel.
 
 The functions of the tours and fixtures committee remain the same as previous: ‘fixing of dates and venues for the visiting Indian team abroad, tours of foreign teams visiting India, provided that all Test centres be awarded Tests, ODIs and T20Is on a rotational basis without any repetition until the entire cycle is complete. Since this panel has been merged with the technical committee, it will also have the task of overseeing the laws of the game and any amendments and experimental laws that may be referred to the general body, and framing and finalising the playing conditions involving Indian cricket.
 
 Currently, it is mandatory only for the BCCI’s technical committee to have three former First-Class players.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the Committee of Administrators (CoA) has requested the Supreme Court to disaffiliate associations which don’t give automatic membership to former international players from their state. The CoA has said this while replying to the state associations’ reservation on granting full membership to ex-India players in one of their suggestions in the draft constitution.
 
 In its suggestion on the issue of full membership, the CoA has requested the Supreme Court to consider the case of full membership of Services, Railways & Universities separately from CCI & NCC. “It would be relevant to take into account the fact that Services and Railways field teams in tournaments conducted by the BCCI and Universities conducts all-India tournaments at the university level. This is one of the reasons why the cases of NCC and CCI should be considered separately from Railways, Services and Universities,” says the CoA’s observation.
 
 
