SHIMLA: Even as the dust refuses to settle on the PNB scam, a company in Himachal Pradesh has been accused of duping both the government and a consortium of banks of more than Rs 6,000 crore.

 Indian Technomac Company, which manufactured refined noble alloys (alloys made of gold, palladium and silver) between 2009 and 2014 before it shut down, has been accused of defrauding the government of Rs 2,175.51 crore in Value Added Tax (VAT).
 
 An FIR in the case has been registered by the police at Majra in Sirmaur district. The issue was also raised by CPM MLA from Theog, Rakesh Singha who has given a call attention motion notice to discuss the scam in the state assembly.
 
 According to sources in the excise and taxation department, the company took the central sales tax exemption by showing forged documents and failed to deposit VAT. Sources in the excise department told TOI that besides the alleged tax fraud, the net liability of company towards banks is Rs 3,500 crore, while its liability towards income tax department is Rs 780 crore. The company’s liability towards provident fund, labour department and electricity department is between Rs 15 crore and Rs 20 crore.
 
 A senior tax official said that if the company’s liabilities towards banks and other institutions are added, then this scam could amount to Rs 6,475 crore.
 
 The company obtained loans from consortium of 16 banks with Bank of India as the lead bank. Sirmaur SP   said the exact amount of fraud by the company is being calculated as the tax officials had submitted the complaint under different heads.
 Police have booked the company’s chairman   along with the directors Ranganathan Srinivasan, Ashwani Kumar Sahu besides Vinay Sharma, who is the son of a retired IAS officer. They have been booked for cheating, various sections relating to forgery and acts done by several persons in furtherance of common Intention.
 
 The latest tax fraud complaint has been lodged by assistant excise and taxation commissioner   along with three other officials of the department. Sources said that matter came to light in 2014, when officials of the state excise and taxation department found a mismatch in the tax returns. The department had started the process to recover the taxes but could not succeed.
 
 Sources added that the company was started in 2009 and closed in 2014, 10 to 15 days after the department raided it. According to their investigation, the company was showing inflated sales and purchases in the balance sheet and was taking tax exemption on the basis of forged documents. In 2014 itself, Rs 2,100 crore tax penalty was imposed on the company, but the management went in appeal in court.
 
 Sources said that for two years, the department failed to revise taxes and also failed to recover the money from the company. Last year, the case was sent for revision and further tax penalty of Rs 75.51 crore was imposed on the company.
 
 Himachal Pradesh, DGP, S R Mardi, said that police officials would first investigate the case and after going through the facts would involve the  , if needed.
 
 CPM MLA Singha said that government should tell the assembly about the magnitude of this scam. He said that for the last four years neither the excise department nor the state government had made any attempt to book the accused involved in the tax fraud. “The government should fix accountability of officials who failed to detect the fraud in the initial stage and later failed to act in time to ensure the arrest of all the accused,” he said.
 
