KOLKATA: A day after the clash between supporters of   and   over BJP Youth Morcha’s  , both the parties hit the streets demanding arrests of the culprits on Saturday. BJP also went a step ahead to meet the chief electoral officer (CEO) demanding central forces for the forthcoming assembly by-election in   and Uluberia.

 BJP on Friday had announced that they would observe ‘protest day’ in front of different police stations on Saturday against the alleged hooliganism of Trinamool. The saffron brigade went for a sit-in demonstration in front of several police stations, including eleven in Kolkata.
 
 “It was a spontaneous reaction of the people. In some places, there were huge gathering and in some areas the presence was low,” BJP leader   said. Education minister Partha Chatterjee was quick to react. “They don’t have people behind them. They only follow the media. How will they organise movement with so little support base?” Chatterjee said.
 
 Countering BJP, the ruling party led by minister Sashi Panja organsied a rally at Jorabagan area — the epicentre of Friday’s clash. The ‘peace rally’ started from Ganesh Talkies and ended near Md Ali Park. “It was an unprovoked attack on us by BJP. They abused the local women and beat up innocent pedestrians. This hooliganism should be stopped,” Panja said.
 
 In the afternoon, a BJP delegation led by Mukul Roy and Joyprakash Majumdar met chief electoral officer Ariz Aftab and demanded 150 companies of central forces for the forthcoming bypolls. “There is no law and order in the state so we want election under the security cover of the central forces,” Majumdar said.
 
 In a BJP state committee meeting it was also decided that the bike rally will continue on the same route. “We will continue the rally between January 15 and 20 on the same route. If there is any special directive from the court we will adhere to that,” state BJP president Dilip Ghosh said.
 
 Meanwhile, the four accused arrested by Jorabagan police were sent to four days’ custody by a local court on Saturday. “We have slapped attempt to murder charges against the accused,” said an officer.
 
