NEW DELHI: There was chaos at   on   after a fire broke out on its 11th floor on Sunday evening. 

 Everyone in the highrise, which has 12 floors, was evacuated in time. A senior fire official said that they received a call around 5pm, after which six fire tenders were sent to the spot. When the blaze could not be doused in the next half an hour, two more fire tenders were sent. The situation came under control after that and the cooling process was started. One of the offices in the building was completely gutted in the blaze. 
 
 “The incident is unfortunate. But I am happy that it did not take place on a week day. There are many offices on each floor of the building and thousands of people are present in it on a normal working day. The situation could have been much worse,” said Rahul, a private company employee who works in an office on the 11th floor of the building. 
 
 Police said the fire started after a short circuit in the conference room of the Australian Council for Education & Research office. A fire official said not many people were present on the floor as it was a Sunday and those present were evacuated safely. 
 
 “Construction work was going on the eighth floor and I was working there since morning. When we were going out for tea, we saw smoke in the area around the staircase. Before we could figure out what was happening, we heard the fire alarm. Soon, fire fighters came and told us that a fire had broken out on the 11th floor, and we should leave the building immediately,” said Mukarram, a labourer. 
 
 Police said no one will be allowed to enter the building for at least six hours and offices will reopen only after the cooling process is completed. Kailash Building houses several offices — media houses, a printing press, offices of several businessmen etc. “The building had to be shut down temporarily because of the fire, causing all the work and operations to stop. Many people who were working in the building had to wait outside,” said a fire official. 
 
 This is not the first time that such an incident has happened in the area. Just a couple of months back, a fire had broken out at the   restaurant in Antriksh Bhawan.
 
