GURUGRAM: A group of college students from Delhi’s   ( ) has teamed up with the horticulture department and a few farmers in the region to start ‘farmers markets’ — where consumers can buy fresh produce directly from farmers, eliminating middlemen.

 The plan was conceptualised by members of Enactus, a SRCC society involved in developing social entrepreneurship models to help communities. To execute the plan, 35 students reached out to the horticulture department, which connected them with farmers in the district. 
 
 “We only built the model. The farmers will run these markets on their own and will not be dependent on us in the long run,” said Anjali Bajaj, a second-year student.
 
 Farmers’ markets remove middlemen from the supply chain, enabling farmers to get a better price for their produce. “While farmers sell cauliflower for Rs 2 per kg in the mandi, the customers end up buying it for Rs 25-35 per kg. Though it is the farmers who toil, the middlemen tend to take away most of the profit,” said Deen Mohammand Khan, district horticulture officer, Gurugram.
 
 The department has held three such weekly markets in the city in the past three weeks, in which 15 farmers from several villages in Pataudi sold their produce. These markets, held on Sundays, were organised in a park in Sector 43 with over ten residential societies around it.
 
 Khan said the markets saw a phenomenal response from residents, with all fruits and vegetables sold out within two hours. 
 
 “The concept is a boon for us. We made Rs 5-10 more per kg on fruits and vegetables as there were no middlemen,” said Ashok Kumar, a farmer from Lokra village near Pataudi, who sold produce in the market.
 
 “The produce at the market was quite good and the farmers were handling the sale themselves. It will take some time for them to get used to setting up the markets and interacting with the consumers. The concept should be promoted by the goverment,” said Nitish Mittal, a resident of Tarika Apartments, who bought groceries at the market.
 
 Officials are now mulling extending the concept to hotels as well. A farmers’ market will soon be organised in Hyatt Regency, Gurugram. “Our idea is to connect farmers with bulk consumers, such as hotels and restaurants,” Khan said. 
 
 
