Dharamshala: BJP leaders from Chamba and Kangra have decided to put up a show of strength before the newly inducted government in Himachal Pradesh that is coming to this hill town for its first winter session of the assembly. There are many old timers who would be absent from the house after losing their seats in the recently held assemply elections.

 Meanwhile, party leaders who have won elections and were not allotted power seats have a separate strategy.
 
 While senior BJP legislatures, including sitting MLA of Bhattiyat constituency Bikram Jaryal, former tourism corporation chairman Rakesh Pathania and former minister Ramesh Dhawala, are upset as they have not received power seats, their supporters are planning to lobby for them before the new government during the assembly session. 
 
 Local MLA and cabinet minister Kishan Kapoor said he would host chief minister Jai Ram Thakur in a procession. “I am returning to my constituency on Sunday evening and the CM is scheduled to arrive here on Monday. Preparations are being made by party workers to celebrate his visit.”
 
 Unlike other Vidhan Sabha sessions, this time many old timers, including former chief minister PK Dhumal, veteran Congress leaders Vidya Stokes, Kaul Singh Thakur and G S Bali, will be absent from the house. Apart from them BJP’s Ravinder Ravi, Randhir Sharma, Gulab Singh Thakur and Maheshwar Singh will also be not be present.
 
 Sanjay Sharma, spokesperson of HPCA and BJP leader, said people are also eager to see first-time chief minister Jai Ram Thakur along with five first-timer cabinet ministers in the ruling BJP government. 
 
 In another first, father-son duo of Virbhadra Singh and Vikramaditya have emerged as one of the interesting pairs in the Himachal Pradesh assembly. While Virbhadra is one of the longest serving politician in the state, his son is a first timer.
 
 At present there are 12 ministers in the cabinet, including chief minister Jai Ram. While six are experienced leaders, five have become ministers for the first time. These are Vipin Parmar, Virender Kanwar, Bikram Singh, Govind Singh Thakur and Rajiv Shejal.
 
 Winter session will take place at the vidhan complex in Kaned village near Dharamshala from January 9-12.
 
 
