ALLAHABAD: Holi celebrations for the residents of the 'Sweeper Basti', a locality in the Mumforganj locality of the city so named as majority of people are engaged in profession of sweeping, were for a surprise on Saturday.

 
 Joining their festivities in their basti (locality) were   candidate for  ,  , along with state minister for civil aviation   and his wife and city mayor, Abhilasha Gupta. Along with these VIP’s were scores of BJP supporters who moved from door to door, meeting the residents and campaigning for the party.
 
 As Saturday was the second day of Holi (the festival is celebrated on two days in the Sangam city), the residents were already in the celebrative mood. Dancing and singing to the hit numbers and applying colours on each other.
 
 At around noon, Patel along with the minister, city mayor and hundreds of BJP supporters, wearing the saffron coloured cap, arrived at the basti. The minister, his wife and the party’s candidate from   were seen going house to house, applying gulal to residents and eating Gujia etc offered by them. The DJ, which was forcefully switched off by police few hours back, again started playing the hit number and the campaigning party joined the revelers. 
 
 During the informal interaction, the residents also apprised the minister and the mayor about the problems faced by them, foremost being that of drinking water. Many of the residents also demanded puccha houses for them, to which the mayor said that because of model code of conduct being in force, she cannot declare certain things, but efforts are on for their demand.
 
 By celebrating the festival with people of the dalit community, BJP is trying to make a dent in the vote bank which otherwise stays loyal to BSP. As the BJP’s candidate for this by-poll is from backward Patel community, the party is trying to form new equations.
 
 “The move comes as a sample for sending the voice loud and clear to others as by attracting the voters of the dalit community, there is win-win situation for both, the community and the party as well, and they have been successful in last general elections and may repeat the same performance in Phulpur by-polls too”, says Prof Badri Narayan, noted social scientist and director GB Pant institute of social sciences, Jhunsi.
 
