CHANDIGARH: With Haryana being recognized for its contribution to the armed forces, now a daughter-in-law from the state has donned olive green uniform to continue the legacy. Almost two years after her husband Major Amit Deswal had attained martyrdom in a counter insurgency operation in Manipur, 35-year-old   was commissioned as lieutenant on Saturday at an impressive passing-out parade at the   (OTA), Chennai. Neeta, mother of a five-year-old boy, has been commissioned into Army’s Ordinance Corps.

 Besides her family members and son Arjun, officers from her husband’s 21 Para battalion were also present during the pipping (when family/relatives removes the shoulder flaps to commission the trainee cadets as officers) ceremony. Talking to media on her commissioning, Neeta said it was her “tribute” to her husband. Neeta had become the officer after completing the rigorous 11-month training at the OTA, Chennai. Though Neeta could have comfortably joined a government job in Haryana, which was offered by the state government, she preferred Army’s tough life.
 
 In her last interaction with TOI before joining the OTA in March 2017, Neeta had said, “I never thought of separating myself from the Army, where I had spent a great time with my husband. Even after his martyrdom, he has a special status in the Army and I just want to carry forward his legacy.” She was among the 255 officer cadets, including 196 gentleman cadets and 37 lady cadets, who were commissioned as officers. The parade was reviewed by Lt-Gen Dewan Rabindranath Soni, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief (GOC-in-C), Southern Command.
 
 Neeta was recommended for the 18th short service commission (non-tech) course in November 2016 by Army’s Services Selection Board (SSB), Bhopal. She was selected on the only post reserved for widow of a defence personnel and secured first rank in the merit list. A native of Surehati village in Jhajjar district, 34-year-old Major Deswal of 21 Para (Special Forces) had attained martyrdom on April 14, 2016, in a gunbattle with   (ZUF) militants in densely forested Nungba area during a combing operation undertaken by the Rashtriya Rifles and Special Forces personnel.
 
 Just after two months of the death of her husband, Neeta had shifted to Delhi, where she was provided accommodation by the Army and had started taking coaching to prepare herself for the defence force. Major Amit had volunteered to join the elite Para (Special Forces) regiment and had also served in the Vikas Battalion of the Special Forces, which comes under the cabinet secretariat and provides muscle to the Research and Analyses Wing (RAW). She was staying with her husband at Jorhat military station in Assam, when her husband was killed in an operation. Earlier, Neeta had worked at cricketer Virender Sehwag’s school in Jhajjar when her husband was posted on a UN mission.
 
 
