PUDUCHERRY: The national knowledge network (NKN) established by Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical   and Research (Jipmer) and Lanka Education and Research Network (Learn) established by the Sri Lankan government have been linked to facilitate direct high-speed internet connectivity and telemedicine facilities between the two countries, said   director S C Parija.

 So far , the digital interactions between the two countries were routed through a high-speed Singapore network.
 
 Union law and justice, electronics and information technology minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and his Sri Lankan minister of telecommunication and digital infrastructure Harin   signed an MoU in this regard on Monday at Colombo. Parija, member secretary (telemedicine) Kalayarasan and Puducherry National informatics centre director Shukla attended the ceremony via video-conferencing from the telemedicine centre at the institute, a release from Jipmer said.
 
 Both NKN and Learn provide high-speed internet connectivity linking hundreds of institutions in their respective countries to assist academic and research activities and to extend telemedicine facilities.
 
 Jipmer, an institute of national importance under the Union health and family welfare ministry, was designated as the regional resource centre for telemedicine activities in South India. 
 
 The institute conducts regular telemedicine sessions every fortnight covering more than 160 medical colleges in six states in the southern part of the country using the one-GBPS high-speed internet connectivity through NKN.
 
 India had earlier launched the Jipmer-Bimstec telemedicine network (JBTN) using NKN last year. Bimstec is the Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation, an international organisation floated by seven countries Bangladesh, India, Myanmar,  , Thailand, Bhutan and Nepal along the Bay of Bengal to promote technological and economic cooperation among them. 
 
 Prime Minister   launched the JBTN on July 13 last year.
 
 Three Sri Lankan universities University of Kelaniya, Colombo University and University of Jeyawardenapura are a part of the JBTN, said the release. 
 
 
