NAGPUR: The central water commission (CWC) has constituted a five-member committee to revise the quota of raw water to the Maharashtra and   (MP) from   (Pench) irrigation reservoir. In case of any revision, the city along with irrigation will get more raw water from the dam.

 The CWC has sent a letter to the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) on Friday informing the latter about the committee. Chief engineer (HSO) of CWC, New Delhi, will be chairman of the committee while representative of water resources departments (WRD) of Maharashtra, MP, director (hydrology) and director (M&A) of CWC will be the members. The committee has been directed to study and submit report within three months.
 
 The committee has been asked to study exact storage capacity of the dam, actual storage in the past few years, hydraulogical data etc of the dam. It will also recommend water allocation from the dam to Maharashtra and MP.
 
 The CWC’s move is seen as a big achievement of VIDC’s efforts. VIDC had told Chief Minister   and guardian minister   about the need to revise the 1964 quota allotted to the state and MP. The two also got Union minister for water resources Nitin Gadkari into the picture.
 
 The dam’s storage capacity is 1,964 million meter cube (MMC) — 60 thousand million cubic feet (TMC). MP’s quota is 991.09 mmc (35 TMC) and state’s 707.92 mmc (25 TMC).
 
 Due to climatic conditions, the average actual storage (yield) was 1,197.80 MMC (42.30 TMC) of which 698.58 mmc (24.67 TMC) was MP’s share and 498.94 mmc (17.62 TMC) of the state which was utilizing the entire water available in the dam up to last year. The MP Government had constructed Chaurai dam on   last year. Since then, the utilization of water from the dam is being done as per quota decided in 1964.
 
 It came as a big setback for the district as allocation to the NMC, thermal power stations of Mahagenco at Koradi and Khaparkheda and irrigation reduced to a great extent. As against the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) demand of 197.90 MMC, the allotted quantum was 139.03 MMC. Any increase in quota will mean rise in allocation to the city as well as others who are drawing water from the dam.
 
 Surprisingly, a majority of catchment area of the dam is in the state but a higher quota was allotted to MP 54 years ago. This is seen one of the major reasons behind chances of rise in the state’s quota.
 
 
