BHAGALPUR:   police have cracked the murder case of lawyer Mazharul Haque and   two criminals — Md Akram and Md Mahtab—alegedly involved in the crime.

 Notorious gangster Rana Mian is said to be the mastermind of the killing. Several other people who were part of the murder conspiracy and played important role in Haque’s abduction and killing, are under police scanner and will be arrested soon, said police. 
 
 Land dispute is said to be the reason behind the killing. Haque was killed on the October 10, 2017 after his abduction from Bhikhanpur locality. His body was found after two days near Magheli village under Pothia block of   district on October 12. Members of the district bar association had then resorted to a stir and abstained from work for several days demanding immediate arrest of the criminals besides suitable compensation to the kin of the deceased. 
 
 According to police sources, sale and possession of the plots of big mango orchard (nearly 87 kattha) worth several crores at Jagatpur village under Lodipur police station is behind Haque’s murder. The orchard belonged to one Md   and he had sold his land to some other person. After his death, a dispute erupted between his sons – Md. Illias and Md. Abbas – and other members of the family including his wife, in connection with their shares in the property and all of them entering into sale contract with different persons, said police. Md. Illias, one of the sons of the deceased, entered into a sale agreement with one Devanand Mandal, whereas the deceased, Md Razzak’s wife Biwi Meherunnissa, made a sale agreement with Noor Hassan Faridi.
 
 In the backdrop, a major dispute erupted in the family and the family members were on the look out to grab each others’ share of land. The deceased lawyers was the counsel of Md. Abbas. Devanand Mandal, who wanted to take hold on the land share of   also figured out that he won’t be able to do so till Haque is there. He then hatched a conspiracy to eliminate the laywer, said police adding Mandal contacted Rana Mian and paid Rs 4 lakh to eliminate him.
 
 Bhagalpur SSP Manoj Kumar said police investigation was made on the basis of call detail records (CDR) of the suspects and after a thorough probe Md Akram and Md.   have been arrested, whereas Mashook Khan and Pankaj Kumar Thakur were arrested earlier.
 
 
