CHENNAI: It was a marriage that VCK leader Thirumavalavan was to solemnize in Villupuram. Since he was to take part in the opposition-sponsored bandh and rally in Chennai, bridegroom Bharathidasan and bride Srimathi - both agriculture labourers - also chose to travel to Chennai to catch up with him and get married in his presence.

 Finally, when they traced Thirumavalavan at a marriage hall in Chennai - temporarily designated as a   for the opposition leaders and cadres - they had a pleasant surprise. On request from Thirumavalavan, DMK working president M K   solemnized their ‘self-respect’ marriage, sans the customary nagaswaram and tavil and chanting of mantras.
 
 Opposition leaders, who were arrested from Anna Salai, were taken to the marriage hall at Purasawalkam around noon. They were chatting and attending phone calls on the stage when the couple walked into the hall and prostrated before Stalin and Thirumavalavan. The VCK leader told Stalin that he had agreed to attend their marriage, but could not travel to Villupuram because of the opposition agitation. Stalin agreed to handover the thali to the bridegroom.
 
 As Bharathidasan tied the thali, the opposition cadres, who were raising slogans slamming the Central and state governments till then, gave a round of applause to the newly-wed couple. Stalin did not want to leave the couple empty-handed, but could not find money in his pocket either. Stalin borrowed some cash from DMK leader P K Shekar Babu and gave it to the couple and blessed them. TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar stood by.
 
 The DMK leader told reporters that the bandh was a complete success. “We have won 100% victory today. Apart from party cadres, general public, transport employees and students participated in the bandh in large numbers,” said Stalin. 
 
 He said if the Centre does not take note of the protest and constitute the   management board, more protests will follow. “Neither the Centre nor the state government is going to do anything on the Cauvery issue. The Centre must recall the affidavit seeking clarification filed in the Supreme Court. The state government must pressurise the Centre to recall the affidavit,” said Stalin.
 
 He said it was not possible to work with the AIADMK government when it had surrendered before the BJP. “All parties in the state can come together and fight jointly for Cauvery only if the AIADMK government comes out and challenges the BJP,” said Stalin.
 
 Meanwhile,   state secretary K Balakrishnan participated in a protest at Park Station. He, along with CPM cadres, were arrested and later released in the evening. “Today’s protest is not the end. It will continue till the Centre sets up the Cauvery management board. Not merely party cadres, even general public will participate in large numbers,” said Balakrishnan.
 
 
