PUNE: Refusing to provide any additional water for the   matches at Gahunje stadium, the   on Saturday asked the Maharashtra Cricket Association about the “sources of water” for maintaining the ground for the ties.

 The Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority ( ) commissioner, Kiran Gitte, said, “A detailed letter has been written to the Maharashtra Cricket Association (MCA), asking how they will arrange water for maintaining the ground for the IPL matches. They will have to give us the water sources and we will verify them.”
 
 Gitte said PMRDA would not make any separate arrangements for water for the IPL matches.
 
 The Bombay high court, while hearing a public interest litigation filed by NGO Loksatta Movement in 2016, on Friday had sought to know from MCA if it would seek additional water from the local authorities for the ground and pitch maintenance for the six IPL matches shifted to the city from Chennai following protests over the Cauvery water-sharing issue in the Tamil Nadu capital. Opposing the IPL matches in Maharashtra, the NGO had raised concerns over the water usage for ground management when the state was reeling from drought in 2016.
 
 MCA on its part stated that it would give all the details to the court as April 18 was the official date for hearing of the case. MCA president Abhay Apte said, “We have multiple sources of water to use at the stadium. But officially, I can’t give you the details. The high court has given a date of April 18 in a case which has lasted for more than two years. We will respond in the court.”
 
 MCA secretary Riyaz Bagwan said they had the permission to lift 2.4 lakh litres of water from the Pavana every day. “We will be taking only 50,000 litres of water from that source,” he said.
 
 He said MCA had its own rainwater harvesting plant with 16 lakh litres of storage capacity within the stadium premises. Besides, it could procure tankers of non-potable water from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation.
 
 Bagwan said the volume of water usage varied from season to season and match to match. It also hinges on the ground and pitch condition.
 
 The   (PMC) authorities told TOI that Gahunje was in PMRDA limits and it was not accountable for water supply to it. “We can send water in tankers up to Balewadi and not beyond that,” said a PMC official. 
 
 
