Indore: The Indore bench of Madhya Pradesh high court on Monday gave three days to   to tell it who had fired the shots on the protesters in Mandsaur during the farmers’ protest and who were the administrative and   posted there when the incident happened.

 The division bench of Justice PK Jaiswal and Justice   also directed them to file detailed para-wise reply to the petition by advocate Anand Mohan Mathur within the next ten days.
 
 The directive for disclosing the names of the police officials was issued on the basis of an application moved by advocate Anand Mohan Mathur. Arguing over the application, Mathur said that the state government must submit in writing the names of district magistrate, additional district magistrate, sub divisional magistrates, tehsildars, SP, police station in charges and the officers deployed on duty at Pipliyamandi in Mandsaur where the protesters were shot at.
 
 “The state should immediately disclose the names of those who fired the bullets. By seeking time, they are only delaying the petitions, which are pending for a long time,” Mathur said. Mathur also questioned the short reply submitted by the state.
 
 “The objections that the PIL is non-maintainable, and that an investigating committee has already been formed are baseless, since we have sought for an SIT and the death of the protesters is a matter of public interest. The reply by the state is also insufficient and does not answer the allegations by us,” Mathur added.
 
 The court asked the state if they wanted to file a detailed reply, on which the state sought specific directions from the bench. Ten days have been granted to the government to file their detailed reply to the petition.
 
 Six separate PILs raising the issue of farmers’ protest in the state between June 1 and 10 last year are being heard at the Indore bench of high court. The petitions have challenged compensation of Rs 1 crore given to the victims, lack of effective police security during the strike, and have sought compensation for all affected people.
 
 
