BENGALURU: The ruling   is paving its way to the elections, quite literally, says the opposition, pointing out that a majority of the 50 stretches taken up for renovation are in assembly constituencies represented by Congressmen. The city administration is on a spree to upgrade the roads under the TenderSURE model, to form a “network of walking streets”.

 While most roads where work is on or has been completed are in Shantinagar, Shivajinagar,   and Chickpet, the fresh set of 17 roads chosen for a makeover under the   funding also fall in two of these constituencies. Only 10-odd roads are in BJP or JD(S) constituencies: Rajajinagar, Jayanagar and Chamarajpet are home to only one or two stretches each.
 
 Padmanabha Reddy, leader of opposition in the BBMP council, said Congress is misusing its administrative powers to please voters in its constituencies. “Why should Tender-SURE roads be concentrated in select constituencies? In fact, the initial set of 12 roads was sanctioned during the BJP regime and the focus was to improve the condition of central business district (CBD) roads.” he said.
 
 A senior BBMP official, however, said the main criterion behind selection was to develop better walking infrastructure in CBD areas.
 
 However, the opposition is not convinced. “Though BBMP announced a set of 50 roads to be renovated under TenderSURE last year, floating of tenders and other related progress has been made only in the case of roads in Congress constituencies. Redevelopment of stretches like   in Malleswaram, those in Whitefield under   and Lalbagh Road remains only on paper,” Reddy said.
 
 Mayor R Sampath Raj said there was no bias in the selection of roads under TenderSURE. “Those making allegations should understand that most of the constituencies where road renovation is going on have wards represented by BJP and JD(S) as well.”
 
 Roads to be renovated
 
 Shantinagar | Residency Road, Richmond Road, Museum Road, St Mark’s Road, Vittal Mallya Hospital Road, Commissariat Road, Kasturba Road, Queens Road; Gandhinagar | Roads in Majestic and Gandhinagar, KG Road; Chickpet | Stretches connecting KR Market (some come under Chamarajpet constituency); Shivajinagar | Cunningham Road, Nrupathunga Road, Commercial Street, Bowring Hospital Road, Infantry Road; Govindarajnagar | Siddaiah Puranik Road; Rajajinagar | Modi Hospital Road Jayanagar | 11th Main
 
