Her dad is singing, as his guru teaches him at their residence. 

 The atmosphere reverberates with kathakali music and deeply lost in its magic is a girl, who is hardly five years old. Her tender mind registers it all and the love for the art form blooms even before she realises it. For 36-year-old  , one of the few women   singers of the State, this memory is as vivid as ever.
 
 Deepa has now performed with many seasoned artistes like Kalamandalam Balasubhramanian and Nelliyode Vasudevan Namboodiri and also has several albums to her credit. Ever since her arangettam in 1999, Deepa, who is also a Mathematics teacher at Poroor aided UP school, has kept aside the rest of her time for kathakali sangeetham and says that each moment spent on it has only given her tremendous joy.
 
 “There have been times when I had to stand and sing throughout the night, for three plays continuously, like it happened at an event last year. However, I didn’t feel tired or realise how much time had passed, as it was just another unforgettable experience for me as an artiste,” Deepa says.
 Her father Palanad Divakaran, a kathakali musician himself, was Deepa’s first guru, ever since she started her formal training at the age of five. “I have also learnt under Kottakkal Madhu and Madambi Subhramanyan Namboodiri, and had also trained in Carnatic music and kathakali, briefly. All of it helps me execute my craft better,” says Deepa, who was also a State School Youth Festival winner in kathakali sangeetham in 1995 and 1997. 
 
 Her arangettam, however, was delayed till 1999 because finding another female voice to accompany her on stage, as is the practice in kathakali sangeetham, was difficult. “Finally, I made my debut with my brother Sudeep Palanad, who is now a music director. Being too young, his voice had not broken and suited my texture well enough.”
 Ever since, Deepa has sung with many other male performers over the years and observes that now more women are coming forward as kathakali sangeetham artistes. 
 
 Kathakali is an art form in which most of the renowned performers, artistes, percussionists and singers are male. Luckily for Deepa, she has never had to face any gender discrimination as an artiste from her fellow performers. “In fact, from my experience, people have only been very supportive, be it to help each other perform better or even encourage one another,” she observes.
 While kathakali sangeetham concerts alone are quite common now, Deepa says what she loves the best is singing at a kathakali performance. “That’s where the real challenge is. You can’t really plan anything unlike in a concert and will have to sing taking note of the mudra of the actor. For instance, if I am singing Santhanagopalam or Nalacharitham today for an artiste and rendering the same tomorrow for another, it would be a totally different experience as the actors will not be showcasing them in a similar fashion. It’s something a concert, which can be predictable in nature, cannot offer.”
 
 The debates on who matters the most on a kathakali stage are also prevalent, with kathakali sangeetham aficionados explaining why it is as important as the acting part of the discipline. Ask Deepa about it and she says, “I would say every single performer on that stage is irreplaceable, be it the actor, singer or instrumentalist. For instance, the mudras performed by the actor won’t be impactful without the chenda in the background. Also, an alert singer is extremely important for the performance to be flawless.”
 Deepa is also an A grade artiste in AIR and works as casual announcer at Manjeri FM. What is her dream as an artiste? “I don’t have a bigger dream than getting to sing for a kathakali performance whenever possible. So, I would say I am living my dream,” she signs off.
 
