LUDHIANA: The industrial hub can get better air connectivity in the coming future as the state government has started exploring options to either expand the existing airport at   or find some other location to set up a domestic airport in Ludhiana.

 Though the government prefers the expansion plan of Sahnewal airport, the officials are working on secondary option as well.
 
 Chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh held a meeting in this regard with officials from   ( ), district administration, civil aviation, state town planning and industry department.
 
 The officials discussed various aspects in the meeting and now the chief secretary has asked for reports from  , civil aviation, National Highway Authority of India ( ) whether Sahnewal airport should be expanded or some other place should be considered for the same.
 
 Sources said at present Sahnewal airport is spread in 150 acres and if it has to be expanded, then 320 acres more is required. Though Glada officials have been searching for land for acquisition, the officials are in favour of establishing the airport near Machhiwara.
 
 Deputy commissioner Pardeep Agrawal said discussions are going on regarding expansion plans of the domestic airport. After seeing reports from other departments, they will be able to reach any conclusion, he added.
 
 PS  , chief administrator, GLADA, said the plan is in the initial stage and many other departments will be involved in the exercise.
 
 Airport Woes
 
 Small runway | Despite being the industrial hub, the Sahnewal airport lacks very basic facilities. Six years after the announcement of the runway extension from existing 4,800feet to 7,500feet, the project is yet to see the light of day.
 
 Visibility problem | Poor visibility was a major hurdle at the airport owing to which the flight had to be cancelled almost every day. However the problem was solved up to certain extent with the installation of DVOR- a navigational device.
 
 90% occupancy
 
 The   flight between Ludhiana and Delhi has become popular among the city residents especially industrialists. Air India officials put the occupancy of 70-seater aircraft at more than 90%. Officials claimed that in the months of September and October the flight was almost full. But in November, smog hit flights and then in December the bad weather and fog disturbed the schedule. Even in January, four flights were cancelled on January 1, 2, 4 and 6. After that the flight has been regular. On Thursday, 65 passengers took the flight.
 
 Schedule
 
 The flight is available on Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays every week. The fare between Ludhiana and Delhi is at least Rs 2,121.
 
 
