Panaji:  , now a real estate agent, may rate the 22-yard strip on a cricket pitch far higher than any of the premium property he has helped sell.
 
  For it was here that he carved out a piece of history as a   batsman when he scored a   double century on debut against the West Indies in 1999 – the only   to do so and one of just three in the world.
  
  The right-hander was to score another Test double ton the next summer, this time against Pakistan. His feats revealed a focus and determination, the rudiments of which the 42-year-old aspires to pass on to young cricketers at The King’s School in South Goa where he is conducting a two-day coaching clinic.
  
  Those stupendous innings, however, brought in its wake severe challenges that rendered Sinclair’s career a roller-coaster ride and the strapping former No. 3 batsman is devoted to ensuring his wards are better equipped than he was to cope with the pressure.
  
  “The 214 I scored on Test debut brought on expectation from fans. I was thought to be the next Martin Crowe (arguably New Zealand’s best ever batsman),” Sinclair said while interacting with the media on Friday.
  
  “People expected a double century from me all the time. But more than that, it was the pressure I put on myself to perform that resulted in an inconsistency of form right through my career,” reflected the Kiwi who played 33 Tests, 54 ODIs and 2 T20Is. “So, I tell the children I coach to be positive. Control the controllables. And be positive. You have to be able to deal with cricket which, in many ways, is a negative sport by being positive.”
  
  Sinclair was picked for Central Districts, a provincial side, at 17, then represented hiscoutry at the u-19 level, as a New Zealand A player and tapped at the doors of Test cricket with prolific scores in domestic matches. “I was selected by chance. Matthew Horne broke his thumb. Sir Richard Hadlee (who headed the selection panel) called me and said I was going to play the next Test,” Sinclair reminisced, wearing his Black Cap with pride.
  
  Much as he imparts the nuances to the kids, the amicable Kiwi believes tutelage also concerns ensuring that his wards don’t make the mistakes he thinks he has made.
  
  “I never had a back-up plan. I had spent more than half my life till then with a single sport. I thought I could just walk into a job after retiring in 2013. It doesn’t work like that in New Zealand,” Sinclair said.
  
  “One path, one direction is fine. But should you break a leg, you need Plan B. So, I encourage kids to look at options. Concentrate on studies. Play multi-sport, soccer futsal whatever that creates the right attitude, discipline and team work,” he advocated. Sinclair appears to know his way around the very young players. “I have an eight-year-old son. It’s all about how you talk. You don’t get too technical and my coaching philosophy is about enjoying the game,” he said.
  
  Concerned at the grim future that hangs over Test cricket caused by the proliferation of the T20 version of the game, Sinclair hopes the traditionalist in him will convince his wards of the rich virtues of the longer game.
  
  “I still believe you must have the right basics to move to Twenty20,” he said. “There’s nothing better than seeing the ball hit down the ground and playing correctly in the V,” he said, citing compatriot Kane Williamson’s example, and expressing the wish to join the IPL coaching fraternity.
  
  Sinclair was inevitably drawn into commenting on the recent ball tampering fracas involving the Australian team and the menace of match-fixing.
  
  “When passion is huge and so is pressure, you could look at it as gullibility. I call it greed. It finally is how you want to be looked at as a player. I have played hard and fair but I can walk down the street, head held high, knowing I had given it my best go,” Sinclair said.
  
  This Black Cap is surely a thinking one!
