THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A storm warning signal 3 was issued at all ports and harbours across the state after a low-pressure system turned into a depression over southeast   and nearby areas and is expected to move north-westwards in the next 48 hours. 

 "The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said a depression has been formed about 350km from Thiruvananthapuram and it could very likely move north-westwards and intensify further into a deep depression. However, the saving grace is it is unlikely that the state will be hit directly," chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told media on Tuesday. 
 
 "Warnings have been issued that under no circumstances should fishermen venture out into the sea till March 15," the chief minister said. 
 
 Though the Regional Specialised Meteorological Centre (RSMC) has alerted that the low-pressure system is expected to intensify, the possibility of it developing into a cyclone is low to moderate in the next 24 to 72 hours.
 
 Alert signal 3 raised in ports and harbours indicates that a depression has been formed and it could affect the port. Surface winds with speed reaching 40-50 kmph are likely. 
 
 The next stage, alert signal 4, indicates that a deep depression has been formed and surface winds with speed up to 60 kmph are possible and could pose a threat to ships moored at ports. Alert signal 5 indicates that the deep depression has transformed into a cyclonic storm and is characterized by surface winds with speeds reaching 60-80kmph, the Kerala State Disaster Management Authority member secretary and head scientist at the State Emergency Operations Centre,   said. 
 
  at the Indian National Centre Of Ocean Information Services indicated that offshore waves might peak at 4-5.2 meters till Tuesday night, along the state's coast from   to Kasaragod. The IMD said rain and thundershowers are likely to occur at many places from Tuesday to March 15 with isolated heavy rainfalls likely over south   and south Kerala. It said squally winds with speeds reaching 45-55 kmph and gusting to 65 kmph was likely over Comorin area and along and off south Tamil Nadu, south Kerala and Lakshadweep coasts in the next 48 hours "We have alerted fishermen not to venture into sea till March 15," IMD director   said.
 
 State chief secretary Paul Antony convened a meeting and all departments, including fisheries, police, coast guard as well as district collectors have been placed on alert. A control room has been opened at the district collectorate. The district collectors will ensure that coastal relief shelters are kept open and tahsildars shall have their keys. Coastal control rooms will function round the clock till March 15.
 
  Several fishing vessels herded back: A team from the marine enforcement wing based at the   fishing harbour in Kollam on Tuesday carried out special combing operations in the sea off Kollam and herded back at least 27 vessels found fishing in the sea defying the warnings not to venture into the sea. 
 
 
