CHANDIGARH: Only 12% of Indian women use sanitary pads, and only 58% use hygienic methods during their menstrual cycle according to   Survey.

 Keeping in view the staggering data, NGO Tammana in its 95th event, in association with The Times of India, organised a workshop on sanitary pads with an aim to create awareness towards improving women's health and hygiene. The workshop was conducted in Government Model High School, Sector 25, Chandigarh. Breaking the taboo revolving around periods, the workshop was organised for about 50 underprivileged girls to encourage the use of sanitary pads amid them.
 
 The workshop was conducted by a special guest, expert and social activist,  . “Unhygienic methods involve usage of cloth, ashes, dried leaves, husk and so on. These unhygienic practices lead to fungal infections, reproductive tract infections, urinary infections, infertility,”   shared.
 
 The girls at the workshop were joined by staff from Government Model School, Sector 25 Chandigarh and team members of the NGO. The workshop started with acquainting the girls about menstrual healthcare, promoting the use of sanitary pads and the problems they could face if use unhygienic methods during their menstrual cycle.
 
 Kiran Dimri, a faculty member from Government Model High School, Sector 25, Chandigarh shared that girls showed an active participation in the discussion. It was noted that lack of affordability of sanitary pads was the common concern among the girls. A special guest expert demonstrated to the girls how to use a piece of cloth and other affordable substitutes to make a sanitary pad without compromising on their hygiene.
 
 The workshop was concluded by distributing free sanitary pads to the girls. The girls stated that they had an informative learning experience and also promised to take care of their hygiene and health.
 
 The founder president of NGO Tammana,   shared that women's health care and menstrual hygiene is an important issue that has been continually neglected in the past and needs to be addressed.
 
