JAIPUR: Very little improvement on the ground can be visible, even after Jaipur is judged as the fastest mover state capital in the Swachh Survekshan 2018.

 
 The mismanagement with garbage collection continues due to delay in payment by the   ( ). The sub-contractors hired by the BVG, the company which is collecting garbage, alleged that payment is not released for more than six months.
 
 The sub-contractors have attached their vehicles with the company to awarded firm for door-to-door garbage collection.  , a subcontractor said, “The firm is making only partial payment. The salary of the workers are given, however, payment of Rs 15 crore for the rented vehicles is not dispersed since long. If the situation counties, it would be difficult to carry out work in the city,”
 
 Rubbishing the allegations, Tanaji, project head, BVG, said, “These allegations are baseless. We have proof and bank details that payment is timely made to these sub-contractors,”
 
 Sources in the department said that the JMC and the contractors have locked horns over payment. “The JMC is yet to make payment of Rs 50 crore to the awarded firm. Every month against the due of Rs 10 crore, even half of the amount is not released. This is why there’s a problem with garbage collection.”
 
 As JMC had earlier decided to remove a total of 3,500 depots from colonies to promote the habit of dumping garbage into collection vehicles, heaps of garbage are seen in the colonies as services are irregular.
 
  a resident of   said, “The JMC vehicles do not come to collect garbage on time. They come during day time, when no one is at home. In such scenario people are forced to throw garbage on roads. As there are no depots the garbage is spilled all over. This draws many stray cows too and possibilities of accidents have increased manifolds.”
 
 It has been alleged, during the time of inviting tenders for door-to-door garbage collection, JMC has mentioned that nearly 1,350 metric tonnes of garbage is produced in the city every day.
 
 
