Actor   said it would be a great opportunity if his popular   character Cyclops would get his own spin-off series. The 44-year-old actor, who played  , a mutant who could generate concussive force red-colored beams from his eyes, said the Marvel Universe has multiple characters that have great content to develop individual movies. 

  
  
 "I think that that could happen. I wouldn't be the one to decide. Who's playing the role or how old he is. Tye Sheridan (in 'X-Men: Apocalypse) did a nice job playing me 20 years ago. But I think what's great about the 'X-Men' Universe is that there are 50 odd different sagas and storylines that you could really do spinoffs with any of these characters."
 
 "And there is a depth of storytelling and how they interweave different characters into it. Stan Lee is really gifted when it comes to that," Marsden said in a group interview here. "I've stopped going to the gym. But that would be incredible," he added. 
 
 The actor was in the city as the global ambassador of International Scotch Day, along with  , brand ambassador, Diageo. He starred in four films in the  ,  ,  ,   and  . Recently, 'Enchanted' director Adam Shankman revealed that the script for the fantasy romcom sequel is almost ready. 
 
 Marsden had played the quintessential Price Charming in the 2007 film, who ventures into the real-time New York from an animated Disney film to search for his love, Giselle (Amy Adams). The actor said he hopes the second installment finally comes through after 10 long years of wait. 
 
 When asked whether he would reprise his role in the sequel, Marsden said, "I loved that movie. It was a real joy to shoot that one. We didn't really know if it was going to work. The conceit of it is pretty unique. They've been talking about making the sequel about 10 years now. So, I hope it happens although I couldn't speculate." "Till then we have 'Westworld' which is exactly like 'Enchanted'," the actor said. 
 
 Unlike 'Enchanted', the universe of 'Westworld' is extremely dark. Marsden stars as  . The actor said he would love to star in another musical as with his children - Jack (17), Mary (12) and William (five) growing up, he could take out time to take up more intensive projects. "I'd like to go back to some other musical. I'd like to try for Broadway as with kids it's difficult to commit for a- year-and-a-half... Eight shows a week and with 'Westworld' going on... It's a real passion of mine since I was young. It's one of the reasons I wanted to pursue this career. It's particularly ingrained in me as a part of my actor's fabric." 
 
 Marsden is a self-confessed fan of Indian food. The actor, who was in his first visit to the capital, said he tried chicken tikka masala and vegetable curry for lunch. "It blew me away. It was something that I had never eaten before. I actually asked them to up the spices. At home, I eat Indian food at least three times a week. It was the best Indian food I had ever," he said. 
 
 Marsden said he had visited Mumbai some time back on a tour to promote a film but he would love to come back to India to explore the country. "It's nice that as an actor you get to travel but you really never get to see the city. I hope I can get a few weeks off and come back again," he added. 
 
  
  
