AHMEDABAD: It is raining domestic and foreign investments at industrial estates across the state. Gujarat is looking at big-ticket investments to the tune of Rs 15,000 crore from national and multinational giants in the industrial estates in Sanand and  . Top sources in state government confirmed they have received proposals from Indian, Russian and South Korean companies that plan to set up manufacturing plants in Gujarat.

 The industrial estates in Sanand and Dahej appear to be preferred investment destinations in the state as Russian steel maker – NLMK Group – has shown willingness in making an investment of US $700 million to set up a steel plant in Gujarat, in addition to other national firms.
 
 “Representatives of NLMK Group from Russia recently met us and have shown willingness to invest US $700 million (Rs 4,500 crore). They have sought permission to carry out feasibility testing in Sanand over the next four months ,” said top state government sources. Apart from this, three national giants – Tata Group’s subsidiary, Voltas Limited;   and Amaron batteries – are also looking at a cumulative investment of close to Rs 4,000 crore in Sanand industrial estate.
 
 “Voltas Limited has applied for land in Sanand industrial estate and is looking at an investment of Rs 1,000 crore to set up its electronic goods manufacturing plant and will lead to a direct employment of at least 1,000 people. The proposal is near to finalization,” said a senior official of   (GIDC), on condition of anonymity. “Emami Group and Amaron Batteries are keenly eyeing to invest Rs 2,000 core and Rs 800 crore respectively in Sanand,” the official added.
 
 Apart from Sanand, multinational giants are also looking at major big-ticket investments in the industrial estate in Dahej. South Korea-based Hanwha Chemicals had recently met top state government officials and is eyeing an investment of Rs 6,000 crore. “Hanwha Chemical is looking at setting up a manufacturing plant for PVC pipes. The proximity to the port is a major advantage for the firm. We are identifying a suitable land for the company,” said a government official on condition of anonymity.
 
 While the government will approve proposals from foreign and national investors based on GIDC’s policies, officials said they will expedite processing of applications and ensure single window clearances.
 
 
