NAGPUR: In a path-breaking finding, researchers at the   ( ) have found an innovative way to use microbes (bacteria) to strengthen cement. This will also minimize the amount of cement used in construction activities and reduce the overall costs. 
 
 The researchers claim that these bacteria can replace the commercial admixtures that are used to increase the strength of cement or mortar. 
  
 The research team from environmental laboratory in the civil engineering department of VNIT has been working under the guidance of former director of National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) and former environment chair of VNIT,  , for nearly three years. Chakrabarti told TOI that during experiments it was found that microbially-induced calcium carbonate precipitation could increase the compressive strength of cement by 23.49% for 28 days of curing period. It also reduced water absorption capacity of cement by 15.40% by filling the micro cracks through bio-cementation. 
  
 The principal investigator of the project Madhuwanti Latkar, associate professor, said, “Most important aspect of the process is that use of water during casting and curing is replaced by the microbial solution. The two types of ureolytic bacteria used in the project are bacillus cereus and enterobacter cloacae. The experiment also used lentil seed powder as protein source and sugar as carbon source and meat extract in the nutrient medium.” The researchers plan to replace meat extract by yeast to further reduce the cost. 
  
 Latkar said durability tests also yielded very good results and ranged between the standard figures. She clarified that the bacteria are used only in the first five/six days of the curing as they die after that. “Otherwise also, these bacteria are non-pathogenic and extracted from rohizopheric soil. We didn’t use pure cultures of bacteria. We used soil along with microbial solution,” she added. 
  
 Chakrabarti said the whole process was environment-friendly and minimized the carbon footprint. “In fact, it is a very green technology,” he said. 
  
 A PhD scholar involved in the project,  , said though the technology is green but transferring the technology or selling it will not be easy. “It is difficult to convince people for using environment-friendly technology. People prefer easily available technology rather than green one,” she said. 
  
 Snigdha Bhutange, a PhD student who joined the project just a few months back, says she would be comparing all admixtures available in markets with bio-cementation process to make it more acceptable and accessible. 
  
 The researchers have earned two patents during the work and the project is expected to continue for another two years or more. 
  
  
