Tuticorin: Unidentified people allegedly hurled a petrol bomb close to the entrance of the Sterlite copper plant here in the wee hours of Thursday. Company sources said that nobody was injured in the incident which they blamed on anti-Sterlite protesters who in turn termed it a drama staged by the company. According to the sources, around 45 security personnel will be on duty in the plant at any point of the day. “The incident happened near the main gate where there used to be four or five security personnel during the day and three at night. Three personnel were on duty when the incident took place around 12.30 am,” a company spokesperson said. He quoted the security guards as saying that two men with their faces covered who were speeding on a bike in the Tuticorin - Madurai direction hurled the petrol bomb towards the main entrance of the plant and fled. “The bomb landed on the approach road from the highway to the main entrance. The guards were alerted only on hearing the sound,” he added. Sipcot police went to the spot and conducted preliminary investigations. Sterlite sources said that they had a CCTV camera inside the plant that focused on the main entrance. This was to note the registration numbers of vehicles entering and leaving the plant. He added that the other CCTV cameras in the plant covered only the inner premises. Police have asked the plant to install CCTV cameras covering the outer walls and the roads nearby to keep such incidents under check. As the anti-Sterlite protests were continuing for 74 days, the plant authorities suspected the hand of the protesters behind the bomb hurling. Policemen and more security guards have been deployed at the plant after the incident. This is the second such incident of attack on the plant or its employees since the protests began. On April 12, stones were thrown at the buses on which Sterlite employees and their kin were heading to the district collectorate to petition the collector to take steps for making the plant operational. Three people including a woman and children were injured in the attack that left the glass windows and windscreens of the buses damaged. The district collector had warned of stringent legal action against those indulging in violence on the pretext of anti-Sterlite protests. The plant had also moved the Madurai bench of Madras high court seeking police protection as the protesters posed a threat to the safety of the plant. Meanwhile, the protesters have dubbed the petrol bomb hurling incident as a drama staged by the company to blame them while they were protesting in a peaceful manner.