NAGPUR: The BJP’s youth wing   (ABVP) cornered four of the six seats after Nagpur University started announcing results for the 10 seats of registered graduates late on Tuesday evening. The counting for the rest four seats was underway at the NU convocation hall till the time of going to press.

 The pending results are likely to come by Wednesday afternoon as counting in preferential voting method is time consuming. Interestingly, some 10% of the votes were declared invalid during counting.
 
 All four seats won by ABVP were from reserved categories, and secured large number of votes. In SC category, Hansraj Khandare bagged 2,638 votes. In ST category, Ambadas Shreeram got 2,295, while Deorao Turke (DTNT) got 2,533, and Madhusudhan Chute (OBC) won 3,087.
 
 In women’s category, former management council member Mahendra Nimbarte’s wife Sarita won with 2,504 votes.
 
  romped home to save the day for the Jumbo alliance. The number of votes polled by the alliance leader was not immediately available.
 
 ABVP office bearer Vikramjeet Kalane said they were expecting a win in at least three more seats now.
 
 Senate Parivartan Panel (SPP), a group of teachers and students formed by Babasaheb Ambedkar Students Association (BASA), seemed to have spoiled the party for the Jumbo alliance. The SPP came close to ABVP in a couple of seats but couldn’t open it’s account.
 
 Even before final results, differences had cropped up between   (SP-YTA), which had formed Jumbo alliance with Vidyapeeth Vidyarthi Sangram Parishad (VVSP) and   (PM).
 
 With ABVP’s stupendous performance on day 1 of counting, Wednesday too could prove lucky for the saffron young wing. As the results came in, triumphant ABVP workers and candidates erupted in joy raising slogans of ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’, and waving saffron flags on the NU premises.
 
 The youth wing was supported by Shikshan Manch in the elections. Manch coordinator Kalpana Pande claimed that the saffron outfit will have a majority in the Senate. “We didn’t take a backdoor entry. Adding these numbers, we are sure of having a majority. I am happy,” she said.
 
 The SP had won 12, YTA 11 and SM 7 in Senate and Academic Council polls in November.
 
 With the current results, the Manch so far remains at number three, though the nominations by chancellor have considerably improved its representation in the statutory bodies.
 
 
