Trichy: Every time when 32-year-old Malathy (name changed), working in a private company, had to dispose her used sanitary napkin at office, she says a guilty feeling shrouds her. She laments that she is forced to use the unscientific method of disposing the napkin in a plastic bag than using an incinerator. 

 Though government educational institutes and corporation-run public toilets have incinerator facility, several offices including government and private, even a few mushrooming IT firms and particularly educational institutes, have no incinerators.
 
 With Underground Drainage system (UGD) covering parts of Cantonment and almost entire Srirangam, frequent complaints received by the Trichy Corporation are about clogged sewers, mostly due to the disposal of sanitary napkins and diapers in toilets.
 
 Complaints on sewage blockade are said to be on the rise in localities where apartments and gated communities are more in numbers. Not just apartments, a NGO working for environment safety, claims that a majority of the private educational institutes in Trichy lag incinerators. Adding to the woes, there was no proper study or survey conducted to point out where incinerators were present and where it is needed. “If an office has at least 10 women employees, it is ideal to install incinerator, which are available in an affordable cost. Awareness about safe disposal of sanitary napkins is yet to pick up,” S Damodaran, founder Gramalaya NGO said.
 
 Earlier in 2017, Trichy Corporation made it mandatory for apartments and gated communities with minimum eight houses to install incinerators for obtaining building approval from the civic body.
 
 Though that it is being followed, apartments that were already constructed and housing units with 80-100 houses still do not have such incinerator facility. Besides apartments, private education institutes with at least 2,000 girl students enrolled do not have incinerators at their rest rooms, which speak of the lack of awareness about safe disposal.
 
 When contacted, Trichy Corporation Commissioner N Ravichandran said, “We recently conducted a meeting with women hostels emphasising them to install incinerators. A proper survey will be conducted to identify places where incinerator is needs and subsequent awareness initiatives will be carried out.” 
 
 
