NEW DELHI: The   ( ) will soon install   across the country. The first machine was installed at   last October and since then airports in places like Kolkata, Jaipur, Bhubaneswar, Port Blair, Trivandrum, Vishakhapatnam, Vadodara, Pune, Guwahati, Varanasi and Surat have also got these machines.

 AAI chief   said: “Installation of   is a small step towards ensuring comfort for female air travellers. While we are committed to provide a safe and secure air travel, we feel it is our responsibility to address basic hygiene-related needs too.”
 
 The AAI took the first step towards this last October when Indore airport director Aryama Sanyal got the machines installed in female restrooms of arrival hall and departure security hold area. “Since there is no medical shop near the airport and it is impossible to move in and out from the terminal building, we started this initiative. Each facility has the capacity to stock 25 pads and the money from these machines will be utilised to maintain the stock,” said Sanyal.
 
 The AAI subsequently started installing this machine at other airports. "The ready availability of sanitary napkins at affordable prices inside the airport terminal buildings will promote hygienic practices and will also help address the deep rooted stigma attached to menstruation,” an AAI spokesperson said, adding, “These easy-to-use machines require only a coin of Re 1, 5 or 10 for a pack of three.”
 
 At present, AAI airports that have these machines are: Indore, Kolkata, Jaipur, Bhubaneswar, Port Blair, Trivandrum, Mangalore, Tirupati, Vishakhapatnam, Vadodara, Aurangabad, Rajkot, Pune, Guwahati, Agartala, Imphal, Shimla, Varanasi and Surat. “This initiative is widely appreciated by women passengers travelling through various AAI airports. Soon, passengers travelling through other AAI airports will also get this facility. Few of the airports are even contemplating to provide the sanitary pads free of cost in collaboration with NGOs,” the AAI spokesperson added. 
 
 India is the world’s fastest growing aviation market and AAI says “as passenger footfall in airports increase, duties of public service providers also need augmentation. The AAI believes that this gentle step will pave way for more such passenger-friendly initiatives in future.”
 
