BENGALURU: Heaps of plastic, wet waste and empty containers may dot the city’s streets and threaten to overflow, but recent data provided by ward-level engineers to the solid waste management wing of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) claims there are only 240 black spots in Bengaluru.

 “In February, prior to the commencement of our Clean Bengaluru programme, we had asked all our assistant executive engineers (AEE) and junior health inspectors (JHI) to send us data on the number of black spots in each area. Since only half of them responded, the total number of identified black spots was 240,” a senior officer from the department said, adding that the actual number could be four times more. 
 
  
 Citizens too, who have been complaining about inefficient waste collection system, said people are forced to dump waste on street corners as the BBMP’s vehicles aren’t regular is some areas. 
 
 The Ugly Indian (TUI), which is one of the six volunteer groups working with the Palike, conducted a survey in December 2016 and put the total number between 1,600 and 1,800. TUI has defined black spots in three categories— daily dumping and clearing points (spots where BBMP autos are sent every morning to clear garbage dumped on the ground), transfer points (where garbage is transferred from smaller vehicles to compactors) and historical garbage dumps such as vacant plots that are not cleared by the corporation. 
 
 “The Palike usually counts transfer points and major daily dumping points as black spots, so their numbers are often lower than what the public see on the road. A fair estimate is an average of 10 black spots per ward (of which three to four would be transfer points, and the rest major black spots). Some areas like   112 and   88 have off-road transfer stations, so the number of transfer points is minimal - and the total number of black spots in these wards is under 5 each. There are other wards with 5-6 transfer points and 12-15 black spots,” TUI said. 
 
 TUI, along with the BBMP, has cleared 400 black spots in three years, over 95% of which have remained clean.
 
 NS Ramakanth of the Solid Waste Management Round Table believes that there are probably a minimum of five black spots in almost all of the city’s 198 wards. “These will disappear only if the waste collection service is streamlined, and if more officers are directly involved in the work on the ground,” he said. 
 
 Reckoning that 240 could be the number of ‘big’ black spots,  , joint commissioner, health and solid waste management, said: “There has been a considerable reduction in the number of black spots in the city. Over the past one year, 100-150 of the major ones have been cleared. We’ve also installed 100 of the proposed 200 semi-underground bins, and these seem to have been quite successful in reducing the size of these public dumping spots.”
 
 
