JALANDHAR: In the wake of Punjab BJP president and   minister of state Vijay Sampla saying SAD demand for amendment in Article 25 B of the Constitution for separate Sikh identity could have an adverse impact on reservation for scheduled castes among Sikhs, SAD said the SC quota in Sikhs had nothing to with  .

 Former Rajya Sabha MP  , who also remained vice-chairman of National Commission for Minorities (NCM) and who tried to move the amendment as private member’s bill in Parliament during his stint, said Sampla’s statement is misleading and appears to be a threat tactic aimed at creating fear among Dalit Sikhs.
 
 “Reservation was not given to Sikhs initially. It was given only after then SAD president Master   launched an agitation (in the 1950s). It was not given through Article 25B and the reservation has nothing to do with the provision of this Article. Even the Venkatachaliah Commission recommended the amendment,” said SAD secretary general and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh  .
 
 It was Dhindsa who led the SAD delegation to finance minister Arun Jaitley and law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on January 2 last year. Asked if the issue had been discussed with experts, Dhindsa said, “We have held discussions with experts and this amendment has nothing to do with reservation. I think there should be no hitch but even if there is, we shall discuss with experts.”
 
 “Reservation to Hindu scheduled castes was given in 1950 and Sikhs were excluded. It was due to agitation by Sikhs and threat to fast by Master Tara Singh that scheduled castes among Sikhs were given this facility. If Sikhs were Hindus they would have been given this facility along with Hindus,” argued Tarlochan Singh who accompanied Dhindsa in the delegation. 
 
 “The minority commission was founded in 1978 and Sikhs were given minority status as a separate religion when Parliament passed the Minority Commission Act. Even Buddhists, who are not Hindus were given the scheduled cast facility later,” he said. 
 
 Sources said a few senior SAD leaders flagged the issue within the party, expressing apprehensions about the reservation in terms of the amendment. A few discussions have already been held. 
 
 When contacted, senior SAD leader, former Lok Sabha deputy speaker Charanjit Singh Atwal, who was speaker of Punjab assembly and is from the SC community, refused to comment.
 
 US-based advocate G S Lamba, who has been articulating on Sikh legal issues, said reservation to SCs among Sikhs has nothing with Article 25 B. “The BJP leader’s approach appears to be creating a wedge within Sikhs by creating a fear psychosis,” he said.
 
 
