The latest episode of   starts with Shravan going to the mobile shop and checking the register. He sees  's name but does not recognize the address. On the other hand,   meets her friend who comes after a date with Param. She gives Ruhi all their pictures that she had clicked with Param. As soon as   reaches the society, Ruhi shows him the pictures and tells him that his game is over. Ruhi even tells him that she will show the pictures to Simmi. But Param is unaffected as he says that Simmi is completely in his influence and she will not believe any of this.

  and   decide to go out for an ice-cream date. He goes to get the car and accidentally overhears Ruhi confronting Param, and asking him why he is blackmailing Ishita. Within no time, Raman loses his calm and starts beating Param. Ishita interrupts and tries to save Param, but Ruhi stops her. Param warns Ishita that he might end up revealing the truth. Ishita begins to panic and slaps Raman to stop.
 
 Raman gets shocked and knows something is wrong. On the another hand, Adi drops Roshni home and there is a power failure in the building. Adi tells her that he will come to her place to drop her. Roshni tells him that she is trying to stay away from him. As she walks away, Adi pulls her and confesses that he cannot live without her. Adi tells Roshni that due to her he is staying with Aaliya. Roshni walks away. Shravan overhears their conversation and gets to know about Adi and Roshni's love affair. 
 
 As Ishita returns home, she is lost in her thoughts. She feels guilty for slapping Raman. Within no time, Raman tells her that he knows she has done this act out of helplessness. Simmi hears Ishita and Raman's conversation. Ishita tells Raman that she slapped him so she could control his outburst on Param. Simmi rushes to find Param injured. She asks him what the matter is. Param avoids the topic and lies to her. Simmi makes out he is lying. On the other hand, Ruhi talks to Mihika about Ishita. Mihika tells her she might be worried for her kids. Ruhi walks into Ishita's room and confronts her.
 
 
