MUMBAI/LUCKNOW: Twenty of the 1.9 lakh candidates who took   2017—for entry into premier IIMs—have made it to the elite club of 100 percentilers this year. Unlike last year, when male engineers dominated the list, this year two girls and three non-engineers bagged the perfect score. It is probably the first time that non-engineers have cracked the exam with a 100 percentile.

 
 Patrick D’Souza (41), a tutor from Mumbai, got a100 percentile for the fourth time this year. D’Souza, who first gave CAT in 1996, failed to get an IIM call then. After pursuing his   from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies, he joined a corporate firm. Four years later, he quit his job to get into teaching. “Since then, I have been training a small group of students for CAT. Some of my candidates managed over 99 percentile every year. It is very important to stay abreast of current trends in paper patterns and questions. It is a different experience for me every year,” said D’Souza, a Thane resident.
 
 Chhavi Gupta, an IIT-Delhi graduate, is one of the two women who made it to the small but elite club of girls who aced CAT. Neha Manglik, from BITS Pilani, had scored a 100 percentile in 2014 and before that another female candidate had topped the exam in 2009.
 
 Gupta started her preparation in March keeping the study for weekends. “I was working and couldn’t spend much time during the weekday. But over the months I started putting in more effort, gave mock tests during weekdays and analyzed the results,” she said. She has the same advice for others preparing to crack the CAT. “It is very important to stay calm during the exam. I had fumbled in my test, but I was confident I could crack it because I had given a lot of mocks,” she said.
 
 At least two more candidates cracked CAT with the perfect score from Mumbai. Arvind Menon, a Thane resident, and Mayank Raj, originally from Hajipur in Bihar—both final-year engineering students from IIT-Bombay who are among the 20 toppers. Menon, who has already bagged a trading job in Amsterdam during the campus placements, has decided to give IIM a miss. Raj, on the other hand, will wait for the IIM call after his interviews and then will make the final choice. He has also landed an offer from a leading Indian bank. A host of other students from the premier Powai institute and other engineering institutes such as the VJTI have scored above 99 percentile this year.
 
 Among the country’s toppers are Meet Agarwal from Ahmedabad, Vishal Vora from Kolkata, Sai Praneeth Reddy from IIT-Madras and Madhur Gupta, a student of Delhi Technical University. Chennai’s coaching class faculty Rajesh Balasubramanium, also a serial topper like D’Souza, also made it to the elite club. Avdipto Chakraborthy, who works with a consultancy firm in Kolkata, also cracked the test, second year in a row.
 
 Ever since additional marks were introduced for women and non-engineers in 2010 by the IIMs, the profile of the class has changed dramatically, increasing the diversity and making teaching-learning a lot richer. Former CAT chair and HRM professor Himanshu Rai said, “Before 2010, 90% male engineers would crack the CAT. Now there are close to 35% women and 25%-30% non-engineers.” After CAT, various IIMs will release their short-list for subsequent process considering CAT score and other criteria. More than 100 other non-IIM institutions also use CAT score for admission to their management programmes.
 
 
 
