MYSURU/MANGALURU: Many parts of south-interior and coastal Karnataka received light to moderate rain on Wednesday, bringing relief to farmers and forest department authorities who were worried over wild fires across the Western Ghats range.

 Following cloudy weather and rain,   dipped by 2 to 3 degrees below normal in several parts of the state. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department (IMD) experts are expecting light to moderate rain till Friday.
 
 Sundar M Metri, director, IMD Bengaluru, told TOI that rain has been reported from Kodagu and parts of Mysuru and Mandya. “These areas are expected to witness light to moderate rain till Friday. This is due to a depression in the south-east of Arabian Sea on Tuesday,” he said.
 
 Rain is expected in parts of coastal Karnataka too, he added. “1 mm of rain was reported from   on Wednesday,” he said.
 
 Many areas of Dakshina Kannada district, too, experienced light to moderate showers bringing temporary relief from searing heat. Sullia, Puttur, Bantwal and Moodbidri taluks also reported rainfall. KSNMDC recorded 81mm and 65mm rainfall at Naravi and Mundaje in Belthangady taluk at 6.15pm and 7pm, respectively. It also recorded 65mm of rainfall at Moodbidri.
 
 Sudden dip in temperature
 
 According to IMD sources,   dipped across south interior and coastal Karnataka on Wednesday. “In the afternoon, the temperature was 30.1 degrees Celsius in Madikeri. It came down by around 3 degrees when compared to Tuesday,” a met official said.
 
 While in Mangaluru, maximum temperature decreased by 2 degrees to 35 on Wednesday, from a high of 37.7 degrees on Tuesday, after the city experienced mild showers.
 
 Meanwhile, light rain across Kodagu has brought smiles on the faces of coffee growers and the forest department authorities. According to Sharat Somanna, a coffee grower from Virajpet, rain was very much needed for the coffee crop now. “Fortunately, this rain will ensure that there will not be any crop loss due to the scorching sun,” he said.
 
 According to forest department authorities, if rain continues for a couple of more days, it may help them control the wild fires. M S Changappa, range forest officer from Bhagamandala, told TOI that for now only light rain is reported. “If the district receives moderate rainfall for a couple more days it will help us control wild fires,” he said.
 
 
