NAGPUR: CBSE Std XII   paper was easy for students, with no surprises. Teachers said the questions were very craftily constructed, keen on testing students’ command over the language.

 Sana  , English lecturer at  , said, “I thought the paper was a nice mix between intelligent interpretation and skilful writing. It was a medium difficulty level paper and anyone who had a fairly good amount of practice will definitely score good marks. I found all the sections to be very well constructed.”
 
 Students were ecstatic to find the paper easier than their expectations.   said, “I had fun solving the writing section. All the questions were easy and I was able to manage my time well. I am quite satisfied with my exam.”
 
  said, “The paper was uncomplicated with an easy grammar section. I found the creative writing section was very interesting, although a little time consuming. I had the most fun in writing the debate.”
 
 Although an easy setting, the students complained about the lack of time management while writing. Shashank Bodule said, “Despite being simple, I found the paper to be extremely lengthy. I had trouble finishing all the answers in just three hours. I could not manage my time well.”
 
 Yash Mire also faced difficulties with managing time. He said, “Time management was the key as the paper turned out to be easy but exhaustive. Also, our syllabus was quite comprehensive, and, hence, the literature section took up most of my time.”
 
 Another student   was happy as the paper pattern was exactly the same as the pre-board exam of his school. He said, “The pattern was familiar, but the writing section was very lengthy. I spent a lot of time on it and as a result, I was left scrambling for time towards the end.”
 
 However, Siddiqui ruled out the possibility of paper being lengthy and said, “Students don’t understand the importance of word limit given in the paper. They get carried away and their answers extend the word limit. If you follow it, you can effortlessly finish your paper in three hours.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Medium
 
 Questions’ relevance: Interpretative
 
 Length: Medium
 
 
