Pune: Remember Rosie the   from ‘The Jetsons’ animated series? Pune appears to be headed in that direction, with fully   to keep floors sparkling clean. 

 Unlike Rosie or R2-D2 from the ‘Star Wars’ franchise, these flat and circular gadgets have more in common with CD players. 
 
 They are programmed to constantly sweep and wetmop the house, plugging themselves in once the battery levels are low. 
 
 For  , a technophile, this gadget was the best gift he gave his wife. “We had a baby last year. A clean house is one of the most important things when a baby is at home. The maid comes once in the morning, but that’s not enough. I had heard about the robot from a friend of mine who lives in the US, and I bought one,” Singh said.
 
 On e-commerce websites, such cleaners cost anything between Rs1,000 and Rs60,000, depending on the functionality and level of customisation. They’re generally 8cm high and have a 30cm diameter. 
 
 Once set up, the device sucks in the dust into a container while patrolling the house. It can clean various surfaces, like wood, carpet, tiles, etc. The time taken to clean depends on the machine’s efficiency and the area to be covered. 
 
 There are machines that hit obstacles and then divert their path, and others that detect an obstacle and alter the path, only to come back later and clean that area.
 
 According to  , an  , this device makes life easy if one is single. “We are out of the house from morning to evening. I’m not comfortable allowing a maid into an empty home. I bought (the cleaner) when it came out in the market. Now, when I leave for work, I switch it on. It automatically detects dirt, cleans it and then switches off. There are no hassles whatsoever,” said Sawant.
 
 Prajakta J, a homemaker from Kharadi, is planning to buy one. “I have two kids and a dog which keeps going under the bed and the furniture. You have to cajole the maid to clean under the sofa or the bed and even then keep an eye on her as she does it. I saw (these) robots while surfing e-commerce websites and now I am contemplating buying one. The cost is high, but it would be good in the long run,” said Prajakta.
 
 
