PATIALA: A day after the family of slain gangster   raised questions against the manner in which the police carried out the encounter, claiming that   wanted to surrender but was betrayed by police inspector Bikramjit Singh  , who carried out the killings, the gangster's sympathisers on Monday issued fresh threats on social media to Brar. 

 However, Brar maintained that all allegations being levelled against him by the Gounder's family members were baseless. 
 
 During the funeral of Gounder at his native Sawaran Bodla village on Sunday, his paternal uncle Gurbhej Singh Sandhu had alleged that both Gounder and   had recently contacted Brar and offered to surrender. His uncle claimed that Gounder and Brar had studied and played together in Jalandhar and were in touch through WhatsApp. He had also alleged that on January 26, the day when the police carried out the encounter, Gounder had called him on WhatsApp and said that Brar had asked them to meet him at the house of his (Brar's) relatives in Abohar. But later, they got to know that the two had been killed in police firing. 
 
 Brar said he was more than 10 years elder to Gounder and had never stayed in Jalandhar. He said after completing his high school from YPS, Patiala, he trained for boxing at the National Institute of   (NIS) in Patiala. "During the operation in which the two gangsters were killed, I was constantly receiving briefings from my seniors and there were 23 cops involved in the entire operation. Soon after the encounter, we reported the matter to   police station near Abohar. But within minutes realised that the area where the encounter took place fell within the boundary of Rajasthan, so we informed the Rajasthan police," he claimed. 
 
 Meanwhile, enraged by the reports that the Gounder's family saw betrayal in the way in which the encounter was carried, some gangster's sympathisers issued a threat to eliminate Brar. A message that was posted on a social media account maintained in the name of Vicky Gounder reads "sab veera te bhena nu sat sri akal. aa jo yaari la k gadari kar gya vikram brar sade veera naal, enu bhut hi jald veera kol bhej dita jauga a sada vada a. sade Vicky te buda veer nal jo ena ne kita bhut mada kita. Asi badla bhut jaldi lwage", (Sat Sri Akal to all. What Brar did to our brothers, he will soon be sent where they (brothers) have gone. We'll soon take revenge).
 
 However, Punjab DGP Suresh Arora has already stated that the Punjab police was not afraid of any threat and also knew how to deal with such intimidations.
 
 
