Jaipur: New cancer therapies are evolving, providing hope for cancer patients. But, it is the fear of cancer, which is affecting patients psychologically.

 Cancer experts from across the country said that cancer immune therapy modulates our immune system to fight cancer by programming T cells (T lymphocyte, is a type of lymphocyte - a subtype of white blood cell) derived from patients to attack cancer cells selectively. This is the most modern and latest treatment for cancer.
 
 The three-day World Congress on Cancer, organised jointly by National Cancer Institute, AIIMS-Delhi; National Institute of Immunology; and a private medical university, began in the city on Saturday.
 
 “Prevention instead of fear is needed to deal with cancer. Cancer is curable, if diagnosed at an early stage. It can be treated in youth with a success rate of 80%. Once it crosses the third stage, then chances of successful treatment goes down to 20%,” said professor G K Rath, director, National Cancer Institute, AIIMS-Delhi, at the inauguration of a congress.
 
 Experts pointed out that 80% of leukaemia in children can be cured. Also, 60% of overall cancer is preventable by improving lifestyle and modifying it.
 
 Professor Steven J Burakoff from Mount Sinai, America, said that vaccination was available for uterine cancer. Females aged between 9 to 26 years should be vaccinated against uterine cancer. Vaccines can completely rule out the possibility of cancer. Chances are that cancer will be controlled in the coming 10 years, experts said.
 
 Programmes will be organised on World Cancer Day on Sunday at other hospitals in the city.
 
 Dr T P Soni, radiation oncologist at a private hospital, said that due to lack of awareness many patients get to know about cancer after it spreads in their entire body.
 
 “Cancer primarily has four stages. The first two stages involve diagnosis and treatment with higher rate of success as opposed to the latter two stages with lesser chances of survival. Lack of awareness is the key reason for India surpassing foreign nations in deaths caused by cancer,” he said.
 
 The treatment for cancer starts with the acceptance of the disease. Many patients are in a state of denial out of fear of death. They fear therapies and think that the side-effects would kill them. However, state of the art treatment facilities such as PET scan and biopsy are available in the state.
 
 “Now target therapy, with very less side-effects, is also available,” said Dr Aseem Kumar Samar, medical oncologist at a private hospital.
 
 Dr Naveen Sharma, surgical oncologist at a private hospital, said, “Once cancer is diagnosed, patients get terrified and become anxious from fear. This poses the biggest challenge for them as well as for doctors. Doctors have to treat them psychologically before they can proceed further with treatment of the main problem.”
 
 Besides, experts believe that tobacco is the single most preventable cause of death. Some 90% of oral cancer and 40% of all cancers are caused by tobacco use. “Ten lakh deaths every year due to tobacco is alarming. The government must strictly enforce the ban in order to prevent 90% of cancers,” said, Dr Pavan Singhal, SMS Hospital, Jaipur.
 
 
