Since last week, Venugopal KG, a 36-year-old senior manager at a tech firm, has been busy predicting the match results on an online pro-wrestling forum and also offering opinions about whether The   would accept John Cena’s challenge, if   deserves to win against   and apart from  , who else would be returning at the World Wrestling Entertainment’s ( ) annual event  , which was held in the US on Sunday night.

 Like Venugopal, there are many others in his 51k-strong social media group called   who have been making  , engaging in debates and supporting their favourite superstars. In fact, several such forums with Malayalis discussing not just the popular WWE but Lucha Underground, Impact Wrestling, Ring of Honor and New Japan Pro-Wrestling have popped up in the last few years.
 
 
 
 Venugopal, who has been a wrestling fan for the past 23 years, says that his group features members as young as 14 to working professionals who are in their 40s. “Pro-wrestling such as WWE and WCW became more popular in the mid 90s with cable TV being available. However, there was always a dearth of people you could talk to about the sports entertainment,” he says. “If we try to speak about it with our friends, they mock us asking, ‘Is this what you watch – men running around in tights?’ There are thousands ready to discuss cricket or football but few talk about wrestling.”
 
 That’s where the online forums come as a respite for fans. Jagan BL, a bank employee from Thiruvananthapuram, says what he likes the most about being part of these groups is that “they don’t judge”. In fact, he is one of the very few in his group WWE Troll Land Malayalam, who has actually been to a WWE live event.
 
 “I had a weekend off and decided to attend the WWE event in New Delhi the past December. It was made all the more memorable because I had huge support from the members of our social media group. They were rooting for me and I was sharing the photos of superstars and the matches from the venue. It was one of those days where I was the superstar,” he says. Jagan adds that the members discuss wrestling and superstars with the same fervent passion as those in a Manchester United Football club group.
 
 
 
 Groups with Malayalis are never devoid of memes that comes from the habit of comparing any situation with certain scenes from Malayalam films. On a recent meme, Gautham P, a BBA student from Kochi, says, “There was an uncertainty whether The Undertaker would turn up for his Wrestlemania match with   and we thought it would make a great meme if we used Jagathy’s dialogue from Kottayam Kunjachan. We took WWE chairman Vince MacMohan’s visibly hesitant image with the lines, ‘Ningalil palarum Undertaker varumo illeyo ennu samshayakunundaavum… Pakshe Undertaker varum…. Varille?’”
 
 Those making memes too range from students who have just finished their Class 12 to working professionals, says Gautham. “It’s not just movies. Social affairs too make for interesting wrestling memes. For instance, John Cena’s catchphrase is ‘You can’t see me’, so when Kummanan was a rage online for appearing out of nowhere, the Kummanan-Cena comparison was just inevitable.”
 
 Apart from memes, these forums also see a steady stream of fan fights over their favourite wrestling superstars, with the same intensity as Mammootty fans vs Mohanlal fans, says Amruth Amey, an 18-year-old from Pathanamthitta. “These heated debates happen online as we are watching the matches online, so that makes it even more exciting. Also, before an event, fans of a particular superstar try to bring down the opponent by comparing their win-loss record and also the career graph,” he says.
 
 The youngsters and senior members often get in to arguments about which period of wrestling is better – the Attitude era, from 1997 to 2002 which had adult-oriented content and more violence or the PG and reality era, which focussed on storylines and had content suitable for children to watch.
 
 What sets the Malayali forums apart from the other social media groups, Jagan, who is also a member to Troll WWE Tamil, is that the “fans are more passionate”. “In other groups, there are hardly 10 posts in a week but in our groups there are at least 30 posts a day. The fans are more active in discussions and clued-in on wrestling aspects,” he says. 
 
 
 
 In professional wrestling, a stable is a group of wrestlers who have a common element and hence form a unit. For a lot of these fans, wrestling is what binds them and discussions about it have helped in keeping their friendships intact as well.
 
 Sachin K, a 34-year-old tech consultant from Thrissur who is currently based in Dubai, says, “When I was in school, we had a group that used to discuss the matches of WWE’s weekly event Raw, every Tuesday morning. We are all now settled in different parts of the world and have families but we still have a group on WhatsApp where we catch up every Tuesday morning after watching Raw. In a way, our friendship has lasted so much because of our love for wrestling.”
 
 The youngsters compare being part of such social media group to being inducted to Evolution, a stable that represented the past, present and future with members such as Ric Flair, Triple H, Batista and Randy Orton. Amruth says, “The senior members tell us about matches that happened in the early 90s, the reigning superstars then and their entire background. So, we get to learn about the history of wrestling from them.”
 
 Venugopal too has formed his own Kliq – the name of a popular backstage group featuring Shawn Michaels, Triple H, Scott Hall, Kevin Nash and Sean Waltman – with members from his forum. “I have made a lot of friends because of the social media group. We also have another messenger group with like-minded people and of different age groups, where we talk about wrestling and also get to know about the pulse of the current crop of fans,” he says.
 
 
 
