CHENNAI: Following protests by opposition parties and members of the public, particularly students, the state transport department has reduced the hike in bus fares by up to 20% for select operators including the Metropolitan Transport Corporation in Chennai. The move would bring down the state's annual revenue from the transport corporations by nearly 1,460 crore, said government officials. 

 However, transport unions and opposition parties called it a mere eyewash as the government would continue to make 2,200 crore additional revenue every year through its decision to increase bus fares.
 
 As per the revised fare slabs released by the government on Sunday, charges on MTC buses as well those in other towns would come down by one rupee. The minimum fare has been fixed at 4 for all these bus services. "After doubling the fares, reducing it by one rupee doesn't make a big difference now," said D Gothamdam, a regular MTC user from Mathur. 
 
 In mofussil buses, fares were slashed by up to 7%.
 
 This would bring down the expected revenue from Rs.35 crore to Rs.31 crore a day and the government should be able to easily eliminate their daily losses worth Rs.9 crore, said K   from CITU-affiliated state transport union. "However, people would continue to feel the heat and the government should bear the excess financial burden," he added.
 
 Responding to this, a transport department official said, "Unions are not considering other expenditure involved in running the corporations. On an average, the state spends nearly 32 rupees for every kilometre travelled. This adds up to Rs.29 crore a day. So, the margin would only be around three to four crore a day even after the hike."
 
 Unions on the other hand differ on claims made by the transport minister MR Vijayabaskar regarding increase in average salary for workers by up to Rs.44,000 a month. “Average salary of more than half the employees was only around ₹20,000 as per the recent wage revision scale. So, including salaries of higher officialsto arrive at the average pay isunfair,” saidNainar.
 
 
 Transport workers earlier went on a strike demanding better wages and wanted the government to clear pending dues. Citing this and several other reasons, thetransport department had increasedfares.
 
 
 The government on Sunday reiteratedthat there would be no change in concessions given tostudentswho travelby government bus.
 
 
 
 
