MUMBAI: When a bunch of creditors started hounding Gajanan Patil for recovering loans, the Sangli-based building contractor slipped into depression.

 Patil had repaid a sizeable chunk of money but the creditors wouldn’t stop harassing him. Later a friend suggested that he approach the police for help. Patil was hesitant as he expected the usual run around that complainants are given. But on his friend’s advice, he logged on to a portal started by the state police where one can lodge ecomplaints and receive status updates on SMS. In the first week of January, the office of the Sangli superintendent of police summoned the creditors for an intervention and sorted out the matter in Patil’s presence.
 
  
 
 The   Citizens’ Portal has recorded over 6,300 e-complaints since its launch last year. The portal provides 24 services to citizens. One has to register on the website and provide his contact details for lodging an e-complaint. An acknowledgement would be sent on email and SMS. The complaint would reach the police station concerned through Crime and   and Systems. An officer is then nominated to look into the complaint and this information is sent to the complainant via a text message. “If a cognizable offence is made out, the complainant would be required to go to a police station. FIRs can’t be filed online as the complainant’s signature is required on it. But once an FIR is lodged, it can be published on the portal,” said an officer. At every stage, the complainant receives a text message of the status.
 
 
 “The biggest advantage is that a complainant can be certain of an official record of his grievance being maintained. Political pressure could stop registration of an offence at a police station, but this wouldn’t happen online,” said Patil. The portal has received over 19 lakh hits so far, said additional director general of police Sanjeev Singhal. “Besides e-complaints, we have been giving permission for festivals, processions and events online ,” Singhal said. While the portal is popular, an app launched around the same time has been marred by glitches.
 
 
