LUDHIANA :At a time when “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao” slogans are renting the country air, there is a village in Ludhiana district where more than 50%   do not study beyond Class V. Reason: the village is located adjoining Mattewara forest and children have to walk through the woods to reach higher and senior secondary  . While the higher secondary school is about 4km away, the senior secondary one is 8km away in other villages. Not a single girl of this village has ever attended college.

  village, 22 kms from Ludhiana, has 110 houses and a population of 1,000. About 20% of the village population is of school-going children. What to talk of public transportation, the village lacks even basic facilities.
 
 Villagers say majority of them have remained uneducated due to government apathy. Garhi Fazil has one government primary school with enrolment of 23. In the absence of a high school and a senior secondary school here and in adjoining villages, most of the girls drop out after completing primary education.
 
 Only few parents allow their children to travel through the forest area to study further. The unsafe route and monkey menace make the journey tough. “The route is dangerous, especially for girls, as drug addicts often escape here. Besides, there have been several instances wherein monkeys bit schoolchildren and snatched their lunchboxes,” says a villager.
 
 The villager appointed guardian of governance (GoG) by the state government, Makhan Singh, says, “The Centre is running campaigns to promote education for girls, but those of our village are struggling to study. Parents are hesitant to send girls to Mattewara, 4 kms away, for higher education and to Kadeyana village, which is 8 kms away, for senior secondary education. Some parents leave work to drop and pick up their wards daily. And those who work outside the village, send their children on bicycles in groups.”
 
 Ramanjot Kaur, 16, a school dropout, says, “I studied till Class X in Government High School, Mattewara. My father used to drop and pick me up from school. The senior secondary school is in Kadeyana village. Therefore, I dropped out. Now, I help my mother in household chores.”
 
