PANAJI: Chief minister   on Saturday reiterated his earlier statement that installing of speed governors was a central law and that he could not defy it. As per the law, tourist   operators’ demand for exemption cannot be met and, after February 24, installing speed governors will be a must, the CM said. 

 One of the demands of tourist taxi operators is that the government exempt them from the 2015 Union government notification making speed governors mandatory for transport vehicles, including taxis. Parrikar said that, till date, he has not received any charter of demands from the taxi union. 
 
 Replying to a question on the course of action that will be taken by the government to bring the   to an end, Parrikar said, “I am watching the situation,” adding that slowly taxi operators will start operations.
 
 He told reporters that he has heard that some people are telling taxi operators that the government is forcing them to fit speed governors. “As per the law I don’t have the power to exempt taxi operators from installing speed governors,” he said.
 
 The decision to install speed limiters was taken by the Union government in consultation with a Supreme Court committee on road safety, the CM said, adding that the issue started in May 2017 after the transport department stopped issuing fitness certificates to taxi not fitted with the governor.
 
 Earlier, the April 2015 notification had exempted taxis, but this was withdrawn on May 1, 2017, Parrikar said.
 
 In May 2017, Parrikar said, at great risk of facing contempt charges for breaking the law, the Goa government permitted taxis to operate under a provisional fitness certificate valid till February 24. 
 
 “Such extraordinary action cannot be permitted in future. After February 24, installing speed governors will be mandatory and this is not because Parrikar wants it, but because it is as per the law,” the CM said.
 
 Parrikar said that taxi operators were given six months to buy and fit speed governors so that a permanent fitness certificate could be issued. “Around 4,500 taxi operators have fitted the governors,” he said, adding that the government will not give subsidy to install the device.
 
 The law has been enforced across states, including AAP-ruled Delhi and Congress-ruled Karnataka, Parrikar said.
 
 Those who are supporting the agitators are welcome to come forward and give me a solution to the issue, Parrikar said, adding that he is also open to legal opinions on how to solve the issue. 
 
 Parrikar said that process of installing digital meters on taxi is in the preliminary stage and that the government has invited expression of interest to finalize the type of meter. He said that at this stage, installing of metres is still four to five months away. “It is a high court matter. They have to install the digital metres,” he added.
 
 
