AGARTALA: Four-term   Manik Sarkar, who is known for his spartan lifestyle, is toiling hard from morning till night to guard one of the last standing Left citadels from BJP, which is posing a formidable challenge to the Communists in this year's assembly polls. 

 While BJP is bringing in a galaxy of leaders to the state for swaying voters, Sarkar is attending rallies one after another to counter the saffron wave. On his 27th consecutive day of poll campaigning on Sunday, he attended three rallies in West Tripura. The previous day, too, Sarkar attended as many gatherings. Moreover, he is also holding regular review meetings of the party, clearing files of the administration and is in constant touch with the chief secretary and DGP. Unlike Sarkar, the star campaigner of the Left Front, the other ministers are confined to their own constituencies to counter the growth of BJP.
 
 Wearing his trademark white pyjama and kurta with a woollen scarf wrapped around his neck, Sarkar went out for campaign in his constituency, Dhanpur, early in the morning. After devoting about three hours to Dhanpur, Sarkar attended a mega rally at Sonamura covering four constituencies of the bordering town. He also addressed a gathering at Bishalgarh, seeking votes for finance minister   in afternoon. In the evening, he was seen at the BT College Ground of Agartala - the place where Union home minister   addressed a rally last Sunday and criticized Sarkar.
 
 Countering Rajnath's allegations, Sarkar said Tripura's performance has been appreciated by the Centre three months ago. "But when the election draws near, central ministers start misguiding the voters for their narrow political interests. Rajnath criticized us for crime against women and poor conviction rate. But the   report did not register Tripura at the top of women-related crimes. It doesn't mean that atrocities are not happening here but it is lower than many states," he added. 
 
 He further said, "BJP leaders are like Siberian birds in Tripura. They don't know what Tripura was 40 years ago. The development of the state cannot be judged by comparing Tripura with other states and cities today. Tripura had begun its journey with empty coffers. If we look at the development today, it is quite noteworthy. But we are still behind other states."
 
 He added that Tripura could have done better if the Centre had extended equal support to the states. Historically and geographically, the northeast is isolated and Tripura got connected in to the railway network of the country only last year. 
 
 
