JAIPUR/ALWAR: The state   on Thursday received yet another jolt after its three-time legislator Dharam Pal   died at Gurgaon private hospital, where he was undergoing treatment for a liver ailment.

 A three-time   from Mundawar (Alwar), 66-year-old Choudhary had suffered from infection in the liver since he was diagnosed with swine flu four years ago. He was undergoing treatment at the private hospital for a month and died of a heart attack early on Thursday morning.
 
 A popular Jat leader in the area, Choudhary was had headed the Alwar Jat Mahasabha as president for 14 years. He was elected to the   from Mundawar in 2003, 2008 and 2013. During the previous term of Vasundhara Raje as CM, he was elevated to the post of a parliamentary secretary.
 
  with transport and liquor business, Choudhary was known for his hold on the voters in the area. ``He was a popular leader, who could be approached at any time of the day. He would always talk to people in the local dialect and frequently travelled across the constituency, often joining in discussions and talks at village gatherings,’’ said Rohitash Sharma, former minister and chairman of cell on inter-state water sharing.
 
 Chief minister Vasundhara Raje, cabinet ministers including   and senior party members rushed to his ancestral village Jat Behror, to pay their tributes and console the family. Choudhary was cremated there on Thursday afternoon. 
 
 Shock and grief spread in the state BJP, which has lost six senior members during the last nine months. Three of the six belonged to the Jat community. On August 9, 2017, former union minister and Ajmer MP   had died after a prolonged illness, followed by the sudden demise of MLA Kirti Kumari of swine flu on August 28, 2017.
 
 On September 17, 2017, the party lost its Alwar MP Mahant Chandnath, who was battling cancer, same as former health minister  , who had passed away on October 27. More recently, Nathdwara MLA Kalyan Singh Chauhan, who was also battling cancer, died on February 21, 2018.
 
 
