Tirupur: Residents of Bandarashettypatti in Dharmapuri on Thursday condoled the death of A Suresh, a Border Security Force (BSF) soldier killed in cross-border firing with Pakistan forces in Jammu and Kashmir.

 The news of the 42-year-old jawan’s death reached his family on Wednesday night. The corpse was expected to reach Bandarashettypatti, his native village near Pappireddypatti, on Thursday night.
 
 Suresh was one of the four children of M Ayyasamy and M Salammal. He did his schooling in government schools in Bandarashettypatti. He had to discontinue BA Economics course at the Sir Theagaraya College in Chennai when he was selected to BSF in 1995 as a constable. “He discontinued higher education to serve the country,” said A Subash Chandrabose, one of his two brothers.
 
 “Growing up in the village, which had produced many servicemen, Suresh wanted to join the Tamil Nadu state police force. He was excellent in sports, including volleyball, swimming and cricket. As the offer from BSF came first, he joined it. Though he had applied for the police constable post in between, he could not attend the qualifying exams,” Chandrabose said.
 
 Suresh was married to Janaki and had two children — 13-year-old daughter Punnagai and seven-year-old son Adarsh. The entire family, including his parents, are staying in the house he built.
 
 “Though Suresh had completed the mandatory 20 years service by working in states like Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir, he opted to serve the country further. When I asked about it, he replied that it was better to serve the country at the border than working as a private security guard,” Chandrabose told TOI.
 
 Suresh had last visited the house six months ago. Though he had applied for leave for Pongal, it was not sanctioned. He was expected to reach Bandarashettypatti this week.
 
 Meanwhile, Suresh’s family urged the Tamil Nadu government to provide employment to his wife Janaki, who has a Masters degree in Education, on compassionate ground.
 
 
