NAVI MUMBAI: The state government has given a leg up to the Navi Mumbai Airport Influence Notified Area (Naina) project by invoking the town planning scheme (TPS) under the amended MRTP Act, 1966. The decision is in sync with the speeding up the Navi Mumbai international airport, in the vicinity of which the township, bigger than Mumbai, will come up,   sources say.

 Cidco chief planner (NAINA), V Venugopal said, “The transition of the earlier model of voluntary land pooling for the 60:40 scheme in which villagers had to provide 40% of their land for developing residential and commercial properties by providing internal roads, open space, amenity and EWS under the MRTP Act was creating delays. So Cidco approached the government and sought to implement the TPS provisions that provide for compulsory participation by villagers for areas for which development plan (DP) had been prepared. The DP for 23 villages spread across 37 sq km in   taluka, some 3-4 km (aerial distance) the upcoming Navi Mumbai airport was sanctioned by the government in April 2017."
 
 Cidco has pegged five year term for completing the development and creating urban township on 37 sq km area, the pilot project area. The draft plan described as TPS 1 was published on Thursday, which will now undergo a process of suggestion/objection by villagers within 30 days, following which Cidco MD   will have sanction the scheme in three months after holding consultation with the director, Town Planning, Pune.
 
 The amended TPS has the advantage fixing deadline for schemes. The schemes have a total of 21 months for execution from the date of announcing the intention of undertaking them with a window period of draft scheme published in first nine months, and the next nine months for the scheme to get the final nod from the Cidco MD, appointment of an arbitrator by the state government for plotting of land to be given to villagers who contribute their land as part of development plan. Cidco on recipt of sanction of the draft scheme shall start execution of roads within the scheme.
 
