Panaji: Each year the North Goa beach belt witnesses mayhem on New Year’s Eve, as thousands descend on the stretch all at once to mark the occasion. Complaints of missing mobile phones, assaults, and molestation flood in at police stations across the state’s beach belt during this times of the year. 

 However, December 31, 2017, was different. Though around 90 cases of reckless driving and approximately 86 cases of drunken driving were recorded on the day across Goa, no fatalities were reported, and similarly no thefts, assaults or molestation cases were witnessed.
 
 Stakeholders estimate that around 1.5 lakh tourists visited Goa to usher in the  .
 
 “Two to three accidents were reported in Canacona and Verna and around five were admitted to a hospital. All were locals, but no fatalities have been reported so far on New Year’s Eve and New Year’s Day,” said South Goa SP Arvind Gawas.
 
 Drunken brawls are usually common in the stretch, including Calangute, Candolim and Baga, considered Goa’s party zone. Every year, on December 31, around 300 to 350 cases of missing mobiles are registered at the Calangute police station, a number that was down to 70 this year. Brawls or cases of outraging of modesty were not reported.
 
 SP (crime) Karthik Kashyap, accompanied by police officials, monitored security arrangements along the stretch till 5.30am.
 
 “We had erected six watch towers across the stretch at strategic locations and announcements were being made through loudspeakers from the towers from time to time asking tourists to watch out for pickpockets, etc. This seems to have worked,” said Calangute PI Jivba Dalvi.
 
 Anjuna PI Chetan Patil said that only minor accidents were reported this year in his jurisdiction, which is another party favourite with tourists, a major improvement over previous years.
 
 “Better deployment, enforcement and regulation and improved traffic arrangements meant lesser congestions, which led to fewer accidents this year. Traffic was flowing smoothly across Goa,” said SP (traffic) Dinraj Govenkar.
 
 
