JAIPUR: Private   in the city coming together under the banner of   have raised concerns over rising conflicts between them and parents. They also viewed that rising interference of the local administration in day to day affairs is undermining their autonomy guaranteed by the constitution of India. The views emerged during the meeting between school principals, management staff and teachers to discuss the fast changing relationship between parents and schools at St Anselm’s Sen Sec School on Monday.

 Schools argued that parents have become highly intolerant towards schools, which has created mistrust. “The new disturbing trend I am noticing is that parents don’t listen to teachers. Even if teachers complain about children’s behaviour they disapprove it. Earlier parents were very serious about teachers’ observation but now they go to any extent to prove them wrong,” said  , former CBSE officer.
 
 Commenting on the changing behaviour of students and parents, Aruna Suresh, Principal of St. Soldier’s Public School, Pratap Nagar, said, “The changing student –teacher dynamics has made teachers handicapped and less confident in dealing with children and in dispensing their duties. The teachers are now scared of taking any kind of disciplinary action against any child even if it is needed for the betterment of the student.”
 
 Schools shared that since the PTI of St Xavier’s Sen Sec School (Newta) was arrested by the police in connection with the suicide, the PTIs or disciplinary in charge of many schools have pull up their hands from taking any action against the errant students.
 
 Over 10 schools participated in the meeting and discussed the St Xavier’s Sen Sec School (Newta) episode, which highlighted that schools have become a soft target. “The suicide incident by a student is most unfortunate for any parent and school. Blaming the teacher who has no personal enmity with the child is overlooking the main reason behind the suicide,” said Fr. Edward Olievera, Principal, St. Anselm’s, Malviya Nagar.
 
 
