KANPUR: The saplings planted in   area of   in Kanpur Dehat under the record-breaking plantation drive launched by the   government on July 11, 2016, have either dried up for want of water or eaten by cattle. About five crore saplings were planted on the day across UP, including Bahadurpur village in Rasoolabad in Kanpur Dehat, which were inaugurated by then chief minister  , and which later found a place in the Guinness Book of World Records. 

 "Almost 100% saplings planted in Bahadurpur on July 11, 2016, have died due to lack of watering facility and stray cattle menace. Around 1,000 saplings were planted on that day," said a social activist Bhuvan Singh. Saplings of about 80 varieties, including goolar, tamarind, teak, sagaun, arjuna, bel and jamun were planted across 6,100 sites in the state, he added.
 
 A forest department employee, preferring anonymity admitted that the drive, which was noticed internationally, has failed miserably. "We watered the saplings for few months only. Later, they could not survive owing to shortage of funds", he said and added that the social forestry department was to monitor their survival rate every three months.
 
 During TOI's spot visit to Bahadur on Thursday, it was found that not even a single sapling, including the peepal sapling planted by former CM Akhilesh Yadav, were nowhere to be seen. In 21 months, the saplings would have grown at least a couple of feet. It was learnt from sources that they were not at all watered adequately and rest were damaged by the stray cattle. 
 
 Akhilesh Yadav had kickstarted the major plantation drive to make UP enter Guinness Book of World Record. he has planted a peepal sapling at Bahadurpur village of Kanpur Dehat's Rasoolabad block, which comes under Kannauj Lok Sabha constituency being represented by his spouse Dimple Yadav.
 
 Meanwhile, the forest department officials expressed unawareness in the matter.
 
 Forest ranger   said as he has recently taken the charge, and he was not much aware about the issue. "However, as far as I know there was no allocation of budget for the upkeep of the saplings," he said further.
 
