Chandigarh: Devinder Singh Uppal has cheered for India all his life but now his allegiance has changed.

 He watched the 2015 World Cup semi-final in the Indian all-blue fan shirt, while his son wore gold and green. “But today (Under-19 World Cup final), I cheered for  ,” Devinder told TOI on telephone from Bay Oval, Mount Maunganui. His son, Chandigarh-born  , played for India’s toughest opponents in the game. He failed to lift the World Cup but daddy says this is just the beginning of his struggle.
 
 Param, he says, has given the family “one of the happiest moments of our life”. “It is fantastic to see him in the national colours (of Australia) on the field. It was just not their day. Victory and defeat are part and parcel of the sport. Australia can go home proud. They came all the way to the final and were outclassed by a better team,” Devinder said.
 
 Proud father
 
 His son, he says, has grown as a cricketer in the tournament. Devinder says: “Param has given his 100%, after which, as a father, you can't really complain. He will learn from these mistakes and come back a better player. The hard part of the job has just begun. He should target the baggy green now.”
 
 Six months ago, even before Param had made it to the Australian under-19 team and played in the World Cup, Devinder, a former Punjab and Haryana high court lawyer from Mohali, had taken leave from his current job at Sydney’s railway transport department for the entire tournament. Work commitments required Param’s mother, Jaspreet, to head back to Sydney with Devinder’s dad after the quarterfinals. “But I am sure they must be proud of Param’s effort in the field today,” Devinder said.
 
 Param’s uncle, Bhupinder Singh, who runs a water-purifier business in in Mohali, credits his success to the influence of his father, Harbhajan Singh Uppal. “My father is a great fan of cricket. No matter which team is playing, he will catch the game on television, and Param used to be his co-spectator from a very early age,” Bhupinder said.
 
 Taste of India
 
 Param’s aunt Satinder Singh Uppal, a teacher at Vivek High School, Mohali, said Param had a weakness for Indian food, aloo parntha and butter chicken, especially, since childhood. “But now things have changed, and since entering professional cricket, he follows a strict diet and exercise schedule,” she said.
 
 Param was born at the Sector-32 Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in 1998. The Uppals migrated to Australia from Mohali in 2003, when he was 4. Devinder gave up 10 years of legal practice to shift base to Sydney, where his wife teaches at Muirfield High School now.
 
 Param grew up in a typical Indian family where studies received priority over sport, so even when he started making waves in junior cricket circuit at 12, he never neglected education. His father said his ability to strike a balance had served him well in the game. “His approach towards the game changed in his under-14 days with New South Wales, where he was best junior batsmen for two successive years,” Devinder recollects. Param was also Australia's top run-getter in the domestic under-19 tournament in the lead-up to the World Cup. The classy right-hand batsman scored 370 runs at last year’s under-19 championships at an impressive average of 60-plus.
 
 Fine all-rounder
 
 As one of the three Australian captains for the three-match 2017 series against Sri Lanka in Hobart, Param smashed 210 runs, including a century. The 19-year-old from Gleenwood, Sydney, brought calm to the Australian proceedings. A strong back-foot game against pace and adeptness against spin helped him score 38 against India in the junior World Cup final, where he also took the prize wicket of Shubman Gill with his off spin.
 
 Now he will go back to his commerce-and-law degree course that he had taken a break from for the World Cup.
 
 
