JAIPUR: To reduce the level of stunting, undernutrition, anemia and low birth weight in babies, the   has included 24 districts of   in the first phase of National   Mission (NMM), which is expected to be launched by Prime Minister   in Jhunjhunu on January 22.

 In the first phase, 315 districts from different states will be taken up. In the second, 235 districts will be covered in 2018-19 and, in the third phase in 2019-20, the Centre will launch NNM in the rest of the districts.
 
 An official of the directorate of Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) said, “We have received the administrative guidelines issued by the Centre on NMM for its implementation.”
 
 NNM will be an externally aided project. It will have the budgetary support (50%) of the government, with the rest (50%) coming from The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) or other multilateral development banks (MDBs). The government budgetary support will be in the 60:40 ratio between the Centre and state, says administrative guidelines.
 
 Under NMM, the government will ensure accurate records of weight and height of all beneficiaries, which include pregnant women, lactating mothers, newborn babies and children up to six years. Growth monitoring devices will be procured for anganwadi workers. “Growth monitoring devices will include infantometer, stadiometer, weighing scales for infants and weighing scales for mother and child,” the official said.
 
 The anganwadi workers will record the weight every month and height for length every three months through the software application and track underweight, stunting and wasting.
 
 Also, the guidelines mentions that all anganwadi workers will be equipped with smart phones to capture data and lady supervisors with tablets. These devises will be procured at state level and pre-loaded with the application software. SIM cards and data connectivity plan for the devises will be procured at state level.
 
 The key objectives of NMM are to prevent and reduce stunting in children (0-6 years), prevent and reduce undernutrition (underweight prevalence) in children (0-6 years), reduce the prevalence of anemia among young children (6 to 59 months), reduce the prevalence of anemia among women and adolescent girls in the age group of 15-49 years and reduce low birth weight.
 
 
