Ranchi: A total of 4,591 candidates are in the fray for the   on Monday and 8.931 voters are eligible to exercise their franchise.

 For Ranchi residents, footpaths to walk on, proper places to dump garbage, better public transport and improvement of traffic are some of their major expectations they have from the municipal representatives. 
 
 Citizens will also cast their votes with expectations of a better city and civic facilities in the coming days. 
 
 City-based businessman Mayank Modi said, “The city is growing fast but lags behind in civic amenities. Since Ranchi became the state capital in 2000 cleanliness of the city has been a major concern. The people have been expecting improvement for a long time but not much has been done. I am hoping that at least this time we get some representatives who actually work towards addressing our concerns.”
 
 Walking space for pedestrians is another major concern for the voters. “In other cities you have footpaths where you can walk for several kilometres without any problem. Unfortunately in Ranchi there is no concept of footpaths. Vehicles are parked on roadsides, drains are open and people are forced to walk amidst moving vehicles and often being glared at by the drivers for walking on  ,” said Pankaj Gupta, a serviceman.
 
 Lack of sufficient number of city buses and proper stoppages for buses and auto rickshaws in the city is an important demand of the public since many years. People are hoping that the new mayor and deputy mayor ensure that the number of city buses is increased so that commutation becomes easier. At present over 50% city buses are not functional.
 
 The city roads also witness regular traffic snarls and the situation is worsening with every passing day. Voters are banking on candidates who they think are serious about getting rid of this problem.
 
 “More flyovers, more parking space, functional traffic signals and broader roads are some of the major requirements to deal with traffic snarls. I have gone through the manifestoes of all the mayoral candidates and I will vote for the one who assures to get rid of the traffic problem,” said another voter, Shreyansh Sinha.
 
 
