Mysuru: If things go according to plans of Mysuru City Corporation, all zero   (ZSWM) plants in the city will soon start treating waste at source and make compost.

 This will reduce burden on the centralized composting plant at Vidyaranyapuram, which recently had turned into a battle ground after residents led by former minister S A Ramdas launched an indefinite protest preventing garbage vans from entering the plant demanding authorities to address garbage menace. The protesters wanted officials to shift the compost plant as it has become unbearable for residents to dwell in houses in the surroundings.
 
 MCC’s plan comes two months after Deputy Commissioner D Randeep inspected all the ZSWM plants in the wake of the protests.   has now evinced interest to develop and expand zero waste plants to reduce burden on the centralized plant in south Mysuru. At present there are nine zero waste plants, each established with a capacity of five tonnes, but except one the rest have remained non-operational due to various issues.
 
 It is estimated that Mysuru generates nearly 500 tonnes of waste daily but the civic body has the capacity to only treat less than 200 tonnes. The rest is dumped at the yard in Vidyaranyapuram. It is roughly estimated that that nearly 7 lakh tonnes of waste is at the yard.
 
 Though infrastructure for nine zero waste management plants were created almost six years ago, the plant at Kumbarkoppalu is the only one which is operational. The plant is considered to be a model solid waste management plant in Karnataka, perhaps in India too. It has been successfully handling waste from three wards in north Mysuru. But the others have remained non-starters because of lack of commitment on part of civic authorities, sources claimed.
 
 Kumbarkoppalu plant, which is considered to be a model solid waste management plant in Karnataka, perhaps in India, has been
 
 Residents opposed handling waste at the plant in Gokulam as it is located close to their houses. The two plants adjoining Jodi Tenginamara burial ground is non-operational as it does not have proper roads to it. The plant in Kesare has been used for non-solid waste management purpose while another is located faraway. The JP Nagar plant too faced opposition from residents and the plant at Vidyaranyapuram too is not fully used.
 
 The plants were set up in each zone of the city with an idea of treating waste at source - meaning the waste generated from a particular zone should be taken to its respective plant. After visiting the plants, Deputy Commissioner D Randeep had suggested the civic authorities to increase capacity of the plants and start operation to reduce burden on the centralized plant which was set up two decades ago.
 
 Health officer D G Nagaraj, who is the nodal officer for Swachch Sarvekshan Survey, confirmed TOI that the capacity of each ZSWM plant is being doubled. “At present, each plant has a capacity to handle five tonnes of waste per day. Under the latest scheme, their capacity will be increased. A sum of Rs 94 lakh is being spent for the purpose and soon we will utilize all the plants fully to make compost,” he disclosed.
 
 MCC however has plans to use the Gokulam unit only for dry waste management as residents are opposing processing other waste, the officer added.
 
