SECUNDERABAD: Offering a glimmer of hope to 3.5 lakh commuters, the ministry of defence (MoD) has sought replies on the closure of 10 civilian roads in the   area and a detailed report by chief executive officer of   ( ) by May 10. 

 MoD wanted clarifications, particularly on two aspects. Of the roads which have been closed by the   (LMA) without following the due procedure (completely or partial), it was said these roads pass through either A-1 defence land or class C (Cantonment) land. The second aspect is whether these roads were being used by civilians before they were closed in 2014. "It needs to be clarified if these roads were being used by the civilians or not before closure and whether vehicular traffic was allowed or not in the first place," an official letter sent by Shalini Pandey, deputy director general (Cantonment), Director General of   (DGDE), MoD, Delhi, to the SCB CEO said.
 
 When TOI contacted, senior SCB officials said: "It is a fact that we have received a letter from MoD. We will be sending a report to the ministry soon." TOI is in possession of the copy of the MoD letter. The letter has also been addressed to CEOs of all 62 Cantonments across India by a top MoD official. 
 
 
 
 
 Elated by the MoD’s letter, resident welfare associations (RWAs) said this development should augur well for commuters. “We welcome the initiative of MoD,” CS Chandrasekhar, a member of Federation of North Eastern Colonies of Secunderabad told TOI. While 10 roads in Secunderabad Cantonment remained out of bounds for civilians since 2014, restrictions have been imposed on five roads — all in AOC Circle — wherein civilians are barred from entering these roads between 10pm and 7.15am. Telangana government is in talks with LMA to keep the contentious Gough Road open for civilians beyond the stipulated deadline of May 31. Till now, MoD has given five extensions to keep the road open to civilians.
 
 
 Sources said MoD had to act as pressure from vice-presidents of 62 Cantonments on closure of civilian roads kept mounting. SCB vice-president J Ramakrishna and Malkajgiri MP Ch Malla Reddy had raised the road closure issue during a meeting held with defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman in Delhi on May 4. Malla Reddy went on to question the LMA authorities if the residents were living in Pakistan that they were barred from using the roads.
 
 
 It was on January 7, 2015, MoD had issued a letter (addressed to the three service chiefs and DGDE) and directed the SCB CEO to reopen all public roads outside unit lines which were closed by any authority other than a Cantonment Board. It also had asked if the procedure of section 258 of Cantonment Act was followed or not. Surprisingly, though the MoD had clearly mentioned to place this letter before the Cantonment Board, till today it is not done in SCB.
 
 
 Members of the RWAs have been organising protests against LMA’s decision, while elected representatives have submitted representations to then defence minister Manohar Parrikar and the incumbent Nirmala Sitharaman also, pleading with them to open the closed roads for the benefit of the commuters.
 
 
