NEW DELHI: Preliminary investigations into the spread of   in the city have revealed that only eight horses at Sanjay Gandhi Animal Care (SGAC) in Raja Garden were affected by the deadly disease. Around 300 horses from other parts of the city have tested negative for the bacterial infection.

 Dr Jitender Kumar Gaur, director of animal husbandry in the Delhi government, told TOI samples from more than 1,000 horses were sent to Hisar for testing last week, of which results of 300 have been received. “Only one of the horses, again from SGAC, has tested positive for the infection,” he said.
 
 
  On December 25, the Delhi government had restricted movement of equines — horses, mules and donkeys — in and out of West district following confirmation of   in seven out of 13 horses at SGAC. “After the results, we can safely say the disease hasn’t spread to other animals in the city and there isn’t any need to restrict the movement of equines in other parts of Delhi,” Dr Gaur said.
 
 Glanders can be transmitted from one animal to another and, in rare cases, to humans as well. It spreads commonly by consumption of food or water contaminated by the nasal discharge of an infected animal. Experts say spread of the disease among humans is not reported in India. There are around 3,000 equines in Delhi, including those kept by the Army and police. 
 
 Officials said the authorities concerned needed to screen animals with symptoms such as fever with chills and sweating, and nasal discharge. Prevention of the disease in humans involves elimination of diseased animals in most cases. “There is no need for panic but we cannot be complacent either,” said an official. 
 
  Glanders, caused by Burkholderia mallei, is highly contagious among the equines. According to a recent research published in Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, Glanders was restricted to certain pockets with sporadic cases till about a decade ago. In 2006, a major   occurred in Maharashtra where 26 equines were confirmed positive. Later, the disease was reported from six other states — Uttar Pradesh (70), Uttrakhand (21), Punjab (3), Andhra Pradesh (16), Himachal Pradesh (6) and Haryana (1). 
 
 In the past one year, several cases of Glanders have been reported from UP and MP, alarming veterinary scientists. 
 
 
