GREATER NOIDA: The   administration along with other districts under the Meerut commissionerate held an e-lottery on Monday to allot 402   in their areas, days after an earlier bid proved unsuccessful. 

 The process, which started around 5.30pm on Monday, saw 700 applicants participating. Under the process, 400 were allotted shops on Monday. Two could not be given any shop because of a procedural flaw.
 
 The e-lottery process for allotment of 402 shops could not be held on March 8 as officials of the excise department had failed to get a green signal for starting the system. The excise department then involved experts from IIT-Kanpur to simulate the lottery process so that each applicant got equal chance to obtain licence.
 
 “The committee was asked to simulate a scenario where a randomly selected shop, for which 10 applicants applied, was allotted by the process a million times. This was done to check the probability of each applicant getting the shop every 1,000 times,” an official said.
 
 On Monday, the excise and NIC officials tried to explain the process to the applicants who had applied for the 402 shops.
 
 As the allotment for 149 country-made   shops was over in minutes, the applicants, confused over the speed of the process, began suspecting the process and asked the officials to read out the names of each applicant who got a shop. “I don’t understand anything. It looks difficult and mathematical but at least, it is happening. Last time, nothing had happened,” said an applicant for a beer shop.
 
 Almost half the applicants failed to find their names on the list for 149 country liquor shops, 23 model shops, 114 foreign liquor shops and 116 beer shops.
 
 “Mostly outsiders have got the shops,” said Satish Nagar, who applied for a beer and foreign liquor shop.
 
 Officials, however, said the simulation process helped them carry out a transparent allotment.
 
 “We could allot 400 shops while two could not be allotted as two applicants in the country liquor category who had got selected had already been given two shops. An e-lottery will be held for their allotment again,” district excise officer Rakesh Singh said.
 
 
