NEW DELHI: Quoting an earlier court verdict that Mahatma Gandhi’s   is almost   to a  , the Delhi   on Thursday expressed   at its  .

 It wondered why the   (RSC), set up for its maintenance, preservation and administration, hasn’t performed its statutory functions, and decided to rope in Agha Khan Foundation to suggest ways it can be restored.
 
 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar referred to a 2012 HC verdict to note that the Ministry of Urban Development (MoUD) had listed RSC as one of the statutory bodies which organised special functions on October 2 and January 30 to observe the birth and death anniversaries of Mahatma Gandhi.
 
 It directed the committee to ensure maintenance of the memorial in order to show reverence to the Father of the Nation.
 
 HC was unhappy after going through the report prepared by local commissioner, advocate Satyakam, revealed the “deplorable” state of Rajghat. The lawyer was tasked by the court to inspect the site and file a report which said even the water bodies inside area are full of dirt.
 
 “The sapling planted by the VVIPs and dignitaries including head of states and national and international leaders are also not maintained. There are filthy toilets and unhygienic canteen and no taps for water. Even the samadhi is not maintained,” it said, adding that there is no proper facility for disabled people who visit the memorial.
 
 The bench also commented that despite the drawbacks, the committee had argued vociferously that everything was in place and they were maintaining the area regularly.
 
 It ordered that the RSC should immediately stop any “knee jerk repairs” from being undertaken in view of this court’s reaction.
 
 The bench also sought the presence of Nipun Malhotra, a disability rights activist on whose petition it has seperately ordered a disability audit of government buildings in the capital. HC’s directions came while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) which alleged that Mahatma Gandhi’s memorial was not being properly maintained.
 
 Petitioner Shyam Narayan Chouksey had claimed that the memorial “was not at all being properly and cleanly maintained”, and despite being brought to the notice of the committee and MoUD, there has been no change in the situation. In the PIL, Chouksey has submitted photos of alleged deficiencies that he had come across during his visit to the monument in 2014 and then again in 2015 and 2016, when he claimed the situation had worsened.
 
 He has alleged there were betel stains at the entrance, broken floor tiles, rubbish lying all around the monument, the white marble has turned black due to lack of cleaning while the green carpet laid for visitors to walk was damaged.
 
 
