MARGAO: The slum areas at the Aquem-end of the railway   are turning out to be a safe haven for anti-social elements and a threat to the lives of the residents and tourists alike. 

 The assault on a tourist outside the Aquem-end of the station has put the spotlight back on the lack of security in the area. TOI has, on a number of occasions, highlighted the perilous situation in the area. While there have been cases of people being waylaid and robbed in the area, locals point out that drunken brawls and prostitution activities are an everyday occurrence. 
 
 Shanties have now sprung up at every available open space outside the Aquem-end of the   station.
 
 “People hesitate to walk past the area due to the fear of anti-social elements in the locality,” a resident said.
 
 Sources said anti-social elements regularly take shelter in the open space in front of the government primary school during the night and mess up the place. Liquor bottles, empty cigarette packs, syringes, used condoms, are often found near the school, they said. 
 
 Hemant Kavlekar, who resides just next to the primary school, voicing his anxiety over the “scary” situation in the area after sunset, said: “Nobody knows what’s going on there. One can find many vehicles in the open space during late evening hours. Fights often take place at the night disturbing the peace of the neighbourhood. Robbers often take this route to escape as the area is shrouded in darkness,” Kavlekar told TOI.
 
 Hutment dwellers and homeless migrants are often found cooking in the open spaces. Locals complain that eve-teasing is rampant and lewd remarks are always passed on women walking along the road.
 
 A 10m-wide road from the rear side of Madgaun Urban Co-operative bank,   branch, leading up to the Apollo Hospital,  , as proposed in the Margao’s old Outline Development Plan (ODP) is yet to materialise.
 
 “If the road is constructed, it would help students to safely reach the school, presently they have to walk along a pathway. A proper road would also reduce the security threat to some extent. Police also need to intensify night patrolling along the road from the Apollo Hospital to the station (Aquem-end) as people fear to walk along this road, as there have been many cases of assault and robbing at night,” Margao municipality councillor Avinash Shirodkar said.
 
 Police maintain the area has been on their radar and they regularly round up suspicious-looking persons found loitering in the area.
 
 
