PATNA: English Honours (Part II) student Divya Bharti was elected the general secretary of Magadh Mahila College after the results of the students’ council member election were declared on Thursday.

 While Ayesha Khatoon (BCom Part I) became the assistant general secretary, Chandini (BA Part II) and Anamika Sharma (BCom Part I) were elected the cultural and assistant cultural secretaries, respectively. Puja Singh (common room secretary), Tahseen Fatima (assistant common room secretary), Manisha Kumari (sanitary secretary), Anamika (sports secretary), Suman Kumari (assistant sports secretary), Anjali Kumari (green earth secretary), Rashmi Shankar (assistant green earth secretary), Rishika Raj (science secretary) and Neha Singh (IT secretary) and Puja Tijya (treasury secretary) were also given important positions. 
 
 College principal Shashi Sharma congratulated the newly elected members of the students’ council.
 
 Patna Women’s College: Fashion designing students of Patna Women’s College (PWC) on Thursday displayed handmade dupattas, designer saris, lehengas, kurtis, jewellery, purses, bags, curtains, lamps, wall hangings, paintings and other home décor items at a two-day exhibition, christened ‘Hues-2018’. 
 
 Students of Advertising, Sales Promotion and Sales Management (ASPASM) also took part in the programme. 
 
 College principal Sr Marie Jessie AC, ASPASM head Nusrath Sohail and faculty members were present on the occasion.
 
 Patna Science College: Braving cold weather on Thursday, more than 500 students of Patna Science College accompanied by teachers and non-teaching staff cleaned the campus for two hours.
 
 A special campus cleaning drive has been launched by the NSS unit of Patna Science College.
 
 Baldwin Academy: A three-day science exhibition ended with a prize distribution ceremony at Baldwin Academy on Thursday. 
 
 The first three health and well-being prizes went to Prarambhika School (Maner), Indian Public School (Hajipur) and Foundation School (Buxar), respectively. In the resource management and food security section, SVM School (Munger) won the first prize, whereas St Michael’s High School (Patna) and City Central School (Patna) bagged the second and third prizes, respectively. 
 
 St Joseph’s Academy (Biharsharif), St Michael’s High School and G J Residential Public School (Patna) won the first three prizes in the digital and technological solutions section. DAV Public School (Bhagalpur), The Diksha School (Nawada) and Vidya Vihar Residential School (Purnia) bagged the first, second and third positions in the transport and communication section. 
 
 In mathematical modelling, G R S S Vidyamandir (Bhagalpur), S V M School (Munger) and St Dominic Savio’s High School (Patna) won the first, second and third positions, respectively. A R D Saraswati Vidyamandir got the first prize, Model Public School (Hajipur) stood second and Prarambhika School (Maner) won the third prize in the waste management section.
 
 
