HYDERABAD: The relatively low crime rate and pleasant weather in the   has helped it hold on to its top rank among Indian cities in the latest   2018 that was released on Tuesday.

 Hyderabad has been able to retain its position as the top Indian city for the fourth year in a row, but has had to share the numero uno slot with Pune, which has been jumping up the ranking chart over the last two years.
 
 
  
  
 
 The two cities ranked at the 142
  spot, the highest among the seven Indian cities, including Bangalore, Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata and Delhi, that featured in the survey.
 
 New Delhi, on the other hand, ranked the lowest among the Indian cities for the third consecutive year thanks to the continuing challenges it faces in terms of traffic and air quality.
 
 Other metros, including Mumbai, Kolkata, Chennai and Bengaluru, also ranked lower on the Quality of Living Index than the relatively newer technology hubs of Pune and Hyderabad. Both the   have been rising in the rankings, with Pune jumping three spots this year.
 
 “While Hyderabad and Pune have jumped in rankings this year, they have done so relative to other cities, while showing negligible change on factors evaluated,” the report said.
 
 
 
 
 Environmental factors such as relatively lower crime and climate hold Hyderabad in relative good stead, while Pune attracts due to its averagely good housing facilities and good availability of consumer goods for international employees,” the report said. In fact, all Indian cities surveyed scored high on factors such as communication and access to food consumables.
 
 Globally, Vienna retained its top position among the list of 450 cities, the ninth consecutive year at the top of the Index. This was followed by  , which ranked second, while Auckland and Munich shared the third spot.
 
 Vancouver was the fifth top city worldwide with the best quality of living in North America. Singapore, with a score of 25 on the scale, was the highest ranked city in Asia and Montevideo, with a ranking of 77, the highest in Latin America.
 
 A separate ranking on city sanitation, which analysed a city’s waste removal and sewage infrastructure, levels of infectious disease, air pollution, water availability and quality — all important aspects of a city’s attractiveness for both talent and businesses, was also introduced this year.
 
 Amongst Indian cities, Bengaluru ranked the highest on this count at 194, followed closely by Chennai at 199 and Pune at 206 rank. However, both New Delhi and Kolkata ranked among the bottom five cities worldwide in terms of city sanitation, closely following each other at 228 and 227 rank respectively. Hyderabad ranked at 209 in the city sanitation ranking.
 
 “The results show that Indian cities are yet to make any marked leaps on the quality of living scale, from 2017. However, this is the 20th anniversary of our survey globally and, though few Indian cities have decreased in their ranking, over a 20-year period these cities have been continuously improving their living standards. A key driver has been the considerable investment in physical infrastructure including airports, public transport and communication facilities — among the many factors used to evaluate city living standards,” said Padma Ramanathan, India Practice Leader, Global Mobility, Mercer.
 
 
 
 
