India made the perfect start to their ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup 2018 campaign with a clinical performance as they beat Australia by 100 runs in their opening fixture. 

 
 After posting 328/7, led by captain  's 94 and fellow opener  's 86 and Shubham Gill's 63, India bowlers put Australian batting to the sword with pacers Kamlesh Nagarkoti and Shivam Mavi claiming three wickets each. India open their campaign with a bang. 
 
 For Australia, opener Jack Edwards top-scored with 73 while wicket-keeper batsman Baxter J Holt put in a rear-guard effort of 39 of 30 deliveries. Australia were all out for 228 in 42.5 overs. Nagarkoti impressed with his pace returned figures of 7-1-29-3 while Mavi too registered impressive figures of 8.5-1-45-3. Spinners Abhishek Sharma and Anukul Roy took one wicket apiece. 
 
 
 
 
 Shaw and Kalra gave India a good start, surpassing India’s previous best opening stand in the Under-19 World Cup of 173 set by Robin Uthappa and Shikhar Dhawan in 2006, after which, vice-captain Shubham Gill’s 63 and Abhishek Sharma’s 8-ball 23 took India to the formidable total. 
 
 Shaw got a life early in his innings when he nicked a good length delivery from pacer Will Sutherland to the wicketkeeper, but Sutherland had overstepped the line bowling his first delivery of the match. After a watchful start, that saw Shaw play out a maiden, the Mumbai batsman got things going with a couple of fours and then hit a six of Xavier Bartlett. Left-hander Kalra, too joined in and got a couple of boundaries to his name through the offside region. 
 
 The duo brought the team’s 50 in the 10th over, with Kalra hitting two boundaries in on Sutherland over. India went past 100-run mark in the 18th over, with Kalra once again taking two boundaries in one over bowled by legspinner Llyod Pope. Shaw was the first to reach his fifty off 55 deliveries while Kalra got to the milestone in 60 deliveries. 
 
 Shaw and Kalra maintained the run-rate in the middle overs setting up a perfect platform for the middle-order. However, Shaw fell six short of a well-deserved century as he tried to slash at a back of length delivery from Sutherland and was caught by the wicketkeeper. Shaw was caught behind off Will Sutherland, son of Cricket Australia CEO James Sutherland.
 
 Kalra also walked backed to the pavilion soon after, falling to spinner Param Uppal. Vice-captain Gill arrested the slide with a well-made 63 and kept India on course for a 300 plus target. Even though India lost five wickets in the last 10 overs, then managed to take 105 runs. 
 
 For Australia, pacer Jack Edwards returned figures of 9-0-65-4. 
 
 India next play Papua New Guinea on Tuesday. 
 
