BENGALURU: Was JD(S) patriarch  's grandson Prajwal Revanna denied a party ticket from Rajarajeshwari Nagar assembly constituency in Bengaluru to facilitate smooth sailing for sitting  's reelection? The answer is yes, if the grapevine in the JD(S) is to be believed.

 
 The JD(S) decision to field a relatively unknown face, G H Ramachandra, who has just quit the BJP to join the party, has fuelled rumours of a quid pro quo between Munirathna and Deve Gowda's party.
 
 Tongues are wagging that Ramachandra's 'dummy' candidature is just a return of the favour by Munirathna in casting state party chief HD Kumaraswamy's son, Nikhil Kumaraswamy, in the meaty role of   in his magnum opus, Kurukshetra.
 
 "The developments taking place in the party with relation to   give rise to doubts that we are willingly putting up a friendly fight against Munirathna. Social media is already agog with messages suggesting that Kumaraswamy is sacrificing the seat for the sake of his son's film career," said a JD(S) leader not willing to be named.
 
 Kumaraswamy, however, pooh-poohs the theory of any nexus with Munirathna. "It is a misinformation campaign that I have sacrificed the RR Nagar seat just because Munirathna gave my son an opportunity in his movie. I never mortgage the party's interest for the sake of my son's career. I don't do the kind of politics that is akin to poisoning my honest and loyal party workers," he said.
 
 Incidentally, the BJP too decided to field a relative lightweight, P M Muniraju Gowda, against Munirathna. Muniraju Gowda had lost the last Lok Sabha election from Bengaluru Rural.
 
 The JD(S) choice of a weak candidate in RR Nagar appears baffling on more than one count, say political observers. The constituency nestles next to Ramanagara assembly constituency, considered Kumaraswamy's pocketborough. Also, Vokkaligas are believed to comprise one third of the 4.6- lakh electorate of the constituency. With its candidate coming in second to Munirathna in the last elections, the JD(S) could have hoped for a facile win with a strong nominee like Prajwal, they say.
 
 Prajwal, who had first voiced his willingness to contest from RR Nagar, said he doesn't want any fresh controversy. "For now, I'm preparing to campaign for the JD(S) in my capacity as party general secretary. I don't want to talk about anything that would kick up a new storm," Prajwal told TOI.
 
 Exuding confidence that he will win against anyone and without any tacit understanding with other parties, Munirathna said his films have nothing to do with his politics.
 
 "When we decided to cast Nikhil as Abhimanyu, I didn't even know about Prajwal's desire to contest from RR Nagar. We wanted a young hero for the role and Nikhil was found suitable. All this political speculation started after Prajwal's name cropped up for RR Nagar's candidature," said Munirathna.
 
