AHMEDABAD: The  , Ahmedabad, has registered a 22.4% growth in the number of   issued in 2017 as compared to 2016. The Ahmedabad RPO issued a total of 6,45,261 passports in 2017 against around 5,27,000 passports issued in 2016.

  
  “From January 2017 to December 2017, about 1.18 lakh more passport were issued as compared to 2016 (January to December),” said regional passport officer, Ahmedabad, Neelam Rani. “The reason is simple. With the RPO opening Passport Seva Kendras (PSKs) at post offices, including one each in Bhuj, Palanpur and Dahod, more and more people are applying for them.”
 
 Rani further said that this year there were around 45,000 applications for passports submitted at the three PSKs in post offices. She further said that the department has also decided that it would be adding another eight more PSKs. These will be opened at post offices in the state this year, she said.
 
 Rani further said that this year, there would be two major changes in passports issued. One would be that there would be two different-coloured passports. 
 
 “For those who fall in   (ECR) categories of Indian passport holders, the colour will be orange while for those for the educated class who do not require an ECR, the passports will be blue in colour,” Rani said. 
 
 She further said that they had taken a decision to remove the last page of the passport which contains some personal information about the applicant (parents and spouse details, address, among others). “Since the ECR remark is made on the last page, MEA is introducing multi-coloured passports for different ECR and ECNR categories,” Rani said.
 
 About the last page, she said that there are some booklets still available. “Once they are exhausted, the new ones will not have the last page where personal information is printed,” Rani said.
 
 A senior officer in the RPO said on condition of anonymity that the RPO, Ahmedabad, was working at around 37% less staff than the sanctioned strength. Against the sanctioned strength of 137 staffers, the Ahmedabad RPO currently had only around 85.
 
 
