His second innings on TV may have been cut short after his show ' ' ('DSJZ') wrapped up in three months because of low ratings — the infamous parameter that often puts commerce before content — but   isn’t complaining. In fact, he is happy with the feedback his character — the suave Anant Mathur with salt-and-pepper look — has received. In an exclusive chat with BT, the actor talks about his future on television, the wrong choices he made in films and how he has always seen the glass as half full. Excerpts...

 
 
 Every show has a shelf life. Apart from the fact that 'DSJZ' was airing in the late evening slot, we were also competing against a popular reality show ('Bigg Boss'). So, we lost out on half the audience then and there. It would have been a different story had it been an earlier slot, but I am happy with the fantastic response I got for my character. Nobody will talk about a show with great ratings after five years; they will talk about content-driven shows and 'DSJZ' will be one of them.
 
 
 
 I chose wrong films. To add to that, there were already high expectations from me, but I am glad I didn’t give up. My biggest learning from my experiences is that it’s never too late.
 
 
 
 I have always seen the glass as half full. I started producing films when I wasn’t getting the desired roles. I waited for the right role to return to TV, a medium that is predominantly for women. If I want to associate with a good project, I have to be patient or I’d end up taking up a bad project out of insecurity.
 
 
 
 I wouldn’t let the notion that I have entered a medium, where youngsters lead the pack, get to me. There were youngsters on my show, but I was fortunate that people were talking about me as well. Today, the biggest stars are 50-plus. In fact, Anil (Kapoor) is older than that (smiles). I feel that I still have a lot of time on my hand and TV has given me that satisfaction. Back in the day, I made bad choices in films because I needed money to survive and sustain my family. However, I refrained from taking up frivolous projects till the time I could. I still remember how uncomfortable I was doing 'Luck By Chance' as that was the first time I wasn’t playing the lead and was part of an ensemble. I wasn’t too sure what would happen to my part as the film also featured Farhan Akhtar, Hrithik Roshan and Rishi Kapoor. But I asked myself that if Hrithik can agree to do a cameo in the movie, why am I hesitating? That film has been one of my best experiences so far. I realised how the times have changed, where everybody is treated equally. The actor in front of the camera is the biggest star, irrespective of his stardom or role.
 
 
 
 Today, the media makes somebody a star even before his/ her first film, and also pulls them down before giving them a chance. Those whose films haven’t even started have become social media sensations. How can they become a star even before they have faced the camera? God forbid, but if the upcoming artiste’s film doesn’t work, they should be able to handle it. Fortunately, it’s easier for kids like Janhvi to handle the attention as they are from a film family. I went through it myself, but I didn’t go bonkers. I was written about much before my debut film Prem released, and that made many people assume that the movie was delayed, as they kept reading about me, but couldn’t see me on screen. So, in a way, it went against me. We don’t have to tell our kids — my daughter Shanaya, Sonam and Janhvi — as they understand what’s going on. The kids today are intelligent. 
 
 
 
 No, she has a private account and also, you can do only so much as a parent. We can’t hide our kids for long. I used to feel bad seeing so many pictures of Janhvi in the media because the poor child can’t do much about it. Celebrity kids would also want to go out like others, but unfortunately, they get clicked. However, they shouldn’t misunderstand it for having arrived; they have to prove their worth.
 
 
 
 Yes, but she is aware that it’s not easy as she has seen our whole family working hard. Fortunately, the Kapoor kids are grounded. Arjun and Sonam have tasted success, but they are still the same.
 
 
 
 The term became a talking point after two industry biggies mentioned it in an interview. Nobody spoke about nepotism when Raj Kapoor joined the industry after his father (Prithviraj Kapoor). No one spoke about it when I joined either. So, why are we talking about it now? Family connections don’t get you work. If that was true, I would have always had a lot of work. People make it big in life because they are good at what they do. There have been many star siblings and children who haven’t been so lucky. One might get an opportunity because he/she enjoys easy access, but beyond that, it is all about your talent. People conveniently choose not to talk about outsiders, who have made it big in the industry. Nobody will cast you just because you are somebody’s brother or child. 
 
 
 
 I am an actor, and I will take up a film if I am offered something interesting. At this point, I am happy doing television and I am open to more shows on the small screen. The difference between other TV actors and me would probably be that my destination isn’t films, but to do good work. I am a newcomer on TV.
 
 
