CAPE TOWN: Virat Kohli can stake claim to owning the 50-over format. With a cracking, unbeaten 34th ODI hundred in the third of the six-match series against South Africa on Wednesday, the India skipper has only tightened his grip on this format like no other cricketer in history barring  .

 
 
 
 
 And given the manner he's been going about - four hundreds in the last six ODIs - there's almost no competition around him right now.
 
 In the list of top-10 One-day century scorers ever, Kohli is now 12 ahead of T Dilshan,   and Chris Gayle; nine ahead of Kumar Sangakkara and AB de Villiers; eight ahead of Hashim Amla; six ahead of Sanath Jayasuriya; four ahead of   and just 15 behind Tendulkar, the greatest yet in the 50-over format, at least number wise.
 
 Kohli is pursuing greatness with the same vigour as Tendulkar, except that he's looked a little too swift and unforgiving in his pursuit. Tendulkar's 34th came in his 307th match during the 2003 World Cup in South Africa. Kohli's 34th has come in his 205th game here in the same country. Tendulkar was completing 30 when the 34th ton came; Kohli will complete 30 in November this year.
 
 
 
 
 Add to it Kohli's command over the chase as much as setting up the innings batting first. In Durban, the ton (112) came in a clinical chase - an effort that he's accomplished 20 times now in what is being hailed a remarkable feat already. In Cape Town, he alone stood tall as the rest of India's innings barring  's 76 crumbled - an effort Tendulkar kept churning out during the 90s.
 
 On Wednesday, as he single-handedly led India past the 300-run mark to set South Africa another competitive target at the Newlands, he once again reminded the world of his endless drive to be acknowledged as one of the greatest to have played the game. The 160 here was as good as any or perhaps a touch better given the responsibility at hand.
 
 It was certainly one of Kohli's more determined innings. The constant falling of wickets at the other end had slowed Kohli down a bit, else with India surging at 160-2 at one stage in the 28th over and the skipper touching 70, it did begin to appear that a first double hundred was on the cards.
 
 Early in the innings, he kept away from almost anything that swayed away from the off-stump, compelling the South Africans to bring the ball in. Every time they did, the batsman either strode forward or stood back to play, two sixes and 12 boundaries accounting for 60of the eventual 160 runs.
 
 Cape Town tuned in to one of the best ODI knocks ever played here.
 
