GURUGRAM: Booked for murder after a police complaint from her sister-in-law, businessman Hitesh Saini’s wife Yasha on Thursday filed a counter complaint with the cops, accusing the sister-in-law and her husband of killing Hitesh for his property. 

 Hitesh died during a New Year party after he allegedly fell from the 10th floor balcony of his flat in Uniworld Gardens 1 in Sector 47 around 1.30am on January 1. 
 
 Police on Thursday began investigations in the case, filed by Hitesh’s sister Vani against Yasha and her parents, for murder. Vani had also raised doubts about her father’s death three years ago, at the home of Yasha’s parents. After preliminary questioning of the accused, they seized their mobiles to trace call records and verify Vani’s allegations that Hitesh was pushed to death by Yasha and her parents. 
 
 Yasha, however, claimed Vani and her husband Varun Chaudhary were putting pressure on Hitesh to grab his property, which had affected him so much that he had begun to consume alcohol in excess. “An FIR was registered by Hitesh on April 25, 2013, at Shahzadpur police sation in Ambala district, accusing Vani and Varun of trying to grab his property using fraudulent means. Vani also harassed Hitesh so much that he took to drinking excessively, and resorting to violence against me, for which I had to twice file complaints against Hitesh at Delhi’s Neb Sarai police station,” said Yasha in her complaint.
 
 Yasha also claimed theirs was otherwise a happy family, and that she had cut a cake to celebrate New Year’s Eve with her husband and kids moments before the tragedy. 
 
 “We planned this New Year’s bash when we relocated to this flat a month ago. Hitesh’s friends Sanjay, Harpreet and Atender had all come with their families, while another friend Rahul had come alone. Sometime after we cut the cake at midnight, Hitesh went to our bedroom, asking me to attend to the guests while he was away. Some minutes later, when I followed him into the room, I barely saw the shadow of his body falling from the balcony, and his hands waving wildly. I screamed, and then we all rushed to the ground floor,” said Yasha. 
 
 “We are verifying the facts based on allegations made by both parties. All angles are being investigated. We expect a clearer picture to emerge soon, and then action will be taken as per law,” said inspector Vijay Singh, SHO, Sadar police station.
 
 
