By Adnaan Rizvi

 Abhinav Bindra, the first Indian shooter to win an individual gold medal at the 2008 Beijing Olympic Games, in the 10 m Air Rifle event, was recently in the city for a private event. Talking about Lucknow, Bindra said, "I have been to the city a few times but haven’t had the time to see much of it. But yes, the feel that one gets here is of warmth and welcome."
 With leagues becoming popular in sports like the cricket, kabaddi, hockey and badminton league, we asked Bindra if a league is also possible in shooting and he doesn’t rule out the possibility. "Shooting league is something that has to be driven by the federation. It will give shooting a platform and will take it to households to achieve great heights. A lot of positives will also come up for the sport as well as for the athletes as it will give them a platform for more competition and perform to polish their skills," said Bindra.
 Now a retired shooter, Bindra had recently said in an interview that India should bid to host the Olympic Games as it will boost talent. "It is a matter of priority to host Olympics after all. Channelizing investment in hosting the Olympic Games is great, but I don’t feel it is feasible because there is only so much money that we can put into sports. It is not about the positive or negative use of the money; it is all about what your priority is," says Bindra. Adding his personal point of view, he shared, "Personally, my priority will rather be to channelize funding in actually developing the young grassroots athlete so that they can be given a platform and opportunity to do well in Olympic Games."
 Soon the shooter's life will be seen on the big screen with actor   playing him on screen and   playing Abhinav's father. Speaking about the same, Abhinav said, "I wrote my autobiography, which got published in 2011 and its rights were also sold several years ago. Now finally, the movie makes have planned to adapt that story into a film. Harshvardhan Kapoor will be essaying my role and I think he fits my character perfectly."
 While Milkha Singh and   made headlines for their biopic at a very late age, one on Abhinav is being made when the sporstman is just 35-years old. Ask him if he feels it's too early for a biopic to be made on him and Abhinav said, "There was a biopic made on   too who is almost the same age as me. So, it is not in my hands that a biopic is being made on me. I wrote a book a few years back and that’s being adapted on screen. So that's how it all happened."
 
