She might be one of the most sought-after actresses in Tamil and Telugu film industries today, but   is unpretentious and easy-going. There is warmth in her voice and candour in her attitude, and it clearly reflected in the conversation we had when we caught up with her on the location of  , starring Karthik and  , recently. Ask her how it is to work with the father-son duo, and she says with a smile, “In the beginning, I really didn’t think much about the combination. But now, after walking out of the editing suite, I know the magic they have created on the screen. There’s a lot to learn from Karthik sir; the way he improvises scenes, his dialogue delivery and the energy he brings on to the set are all very impressive. He is a fun person to work with.”

 Regina plays Madhu, Gautham’s girlfriend, in the film. “She has nothing nice to say to him. She is always shouting and pulling him up for his mistakes,” she says. 
 
 The actress had about four releases last year, and has signed on a bunch of big projects in both Kollywood and Tollywood. Tell her that 2017 must have been a great year for her professionally, and she rebuts, “Honestly, 2017 wasn’t a great year in my point of view, but 2018 will be that! I’ve worked on several films that I think will bring out the best in me. For me, it’s more about how much of effort I put into a film. The characters that I’m working on now are different from what I have done so far, and I can’t wait for the audience to see it.”
 
 So, how does she choose from the scripts that come to her? “I have to like the story on the whole. When Thiru came to me with this film, I liked it because his stories have some realistic element. He does his research. Even if there’s something scientific, there is logic behind it. When I listen to stories, my decision is largely based on my gut feelings. It should be a win-win situation for both me and the film; I should benefit from it and also add value to it,” she says.”
 
 Have her gut feelings ever let her down? “Of course! They have worked many times and I have been proven wrong several times. Life is a learning process. And fortunately or unfortunately, my profession is such that I’m always in the public eye. A mistake that I do gets focused on, and a good thing that I do is also highlighted. So yes, there are ups and downs,” Regina answers.
 
 Last year also saw the release of several films in which actresses had strong roles. Ask Regina if she would want to do films in which she is not the typical, clichéd heroine, and she says, “I’ve actually done two films already in which I am neither the girlfriend nor the wife. In   (Selvaraghavan directorial), I play a nanny. And in the Telugu film  , I play a drug addict, a girl who works in a coffee shop. I also got an undercut done for my role.”
 
 And, are any roles taboo for her? “Well, an actor has to be versatile. But if I am asked to do something I am not comfortable with impromptu, like wearing skimpy clothes or doing something that doesn’t go well with the character, I might not be game. But if I am briefed in advance, I am prepared for anything,” she signs off.
 
