It's exam time again and each student has their own strategy to prepare. While some choose to memorising techniques, others prefer to mug theories. While some start studying a month in advance, others prepare overnight. But lately, a new trend of studying seems to be catching on among students - studying in unusual places. A few students from the city tell us about their study destinations and why it works for them.

 
 
 
 For Gayatri Gawade, second year student of  , home is where she usually likes to study, unless there's an examination. "It is easy to lose focus within an hour due to the usual distractions like television, guests, the worry of reaching the venue on time, etc. So during examinations and especially a few hours before the examinations I prefer to study outside. My comfort zones for studying include   college campus - like Kimaya; or while I am waiting for my train at the railway station; or inside the train with earphones on. For me, one hour of study at these spots equals three hours of study at home." Swaraj, who is preparing for competitive exams, likes to imagine that the people around him are the characters from his books. "I prefer going to a social place - mostly coffee shops - where I can observe people while reading. When the subject gets boring, I look around to make a story about them with the textbook characters in my head and it instantly cracks me up. This helps ease the pressure during exams. And when I write my exams, I recall the coffee shop situation," he shares.
 
  
  
 
 
 A little greenery and the sound of birds is what third year student Swarada Joshi, from  , seeks. "I am a student, but also work part-time, so by the time I reach home, I'm tired and need to find an alternative to study. That’s when greenery and nature come to my rescue. My zones for peaceful studying are gardens. I remember when I went to Baneshwar garden to complete my journals. When I have to prepare for my final exams,   zoo is the place I choose to study." 
 While its greenery for Swarada, it's the bustle of the city for Suyog Kapileshwar, a second year student of PVG's College of Engineering and Technology. He shares, "I prefer places with chaos. I prefer studying near playgrounds where I can watch people playing some sport. The energy on the field inspires me to study. Chaos helps my mind shut other unproductive thoughts and helps me concentrate better. Many times, I carry an audio format of my syllabus and listen to it while I am sitting in a busy street."
 
  
  
 
 
 On it's way to becoming a smart city, Pune is slowly giving its citizens more footpaths that are now being used as study spots as well. Khushbu Gajbhiye, second year student from   says, "A public bench is where I usually like to study. Now that JM Road has been renovated with benches and tables, I take my studies there. Evenings are perfect, since the ambience gets pleasant to focus. And if I need a break, I just look around to draw a quick sketch, which acts as a stress-buster."
 
  
  
 —Moumita.Chakraborty@timesgroup.com 
 
