KOCHI: Four more policemen - including two assistant sub-inspectors - were arraigned as accused in the Varapuzha custodial death case on Thursday. The four of them are ASI  , ASI Santosh Baby, civil police officers (CPOs)   and Sreeraj. The officers were attached to Varapuzha station where Sreejith SR was beaten-up by the sub-inspector, who is the fourth accused in the case. 

 
 As of now the total number of accused in the case has increased to nine. A report in this connection was submitted to North Paravur magistrate court. At the same time, an allegation arose that the driver of former North Paravur CI Crispin Sam, Pradeep Kumar demanded money to release Sreejith a day after his arrest.   rural SP placed him under suspension pending inquiry.
 
 Jayanandan oversaw Varappuzha police station on the day Sreejith was taken into custody as GS Deepak, the SI in charge, was away on leave. "The other policemen were present at the station when Sreejith was subjected to torture. However, they did not take part in the custodial torture which led to Sreejith's death," said an officer, adding that the arrests have not been recorded.
 
 Earlier, SIT had arrested five officers - including North Paravur CI and Varapuzha SI. The first three officers who were arrested were   officers who nabbed Sreejith. Only RTF personnel and Deepak are facing murder charges in the case.
 
 Meanwhile, Sreejith's family claimed that a policeman had sought bribe to release Sreejith. "It is true that an amount was handed over to a policeman and later the amount was returned. My father handled the transaction and I don't know the details," said Ranjith SR, Sreejith's elder brother.
 
 SIT will collect the statements of the co-accused, who were arrested with Sreejith, since it has received permission from Ernakulam Chief Judicial Magistrate court.
 
 A probe into the possibility of documents being forged in the case is also going on. Rural SP AV George was questioned for over three hours by SIT on Wednesday. Statements of Aluva DSP and other officers connected with case have also been collected, said officers. SIT, which is also probing the house attack case that resulted in the suicide of Vasudevan, took the accused (Vipin, Thulasidas and Ajith) for evidence collection. SIT recovered some of the weapons used in the attack. 
 
