MANGALURU:   riding on a hat-trick by   (3-3) powered their way to   ( ) title in their maiden appearance in second edition of the tournament that ended at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management ground, Adyar late on Sunday. Chasing a target of 51 for a win by  , Karkala, the Mumbai side reached the target with four balls to spare in an eight-over-a-side cricket tournament.

 Sensible batting by man-of-the-series Prasad Nayak (17) meant that Mumbai Paltans despite a slow start were able to capitalize with wickets in hand to coast home to a six-wicket win. Earlier, put in to but, the Karkala side that was 49-4 going in to the final over could only add a single run thanks to tight fielding and Gurudas’s exploits with the ball. The Mumbai side that took home Rs 2,22,222 and a trophy had beaten the Karkala side in the first qualifier as well.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 On the distaff side, Gurpur Gladiators registered a facile 13-run win in the finals against Vijaya Cricketers, Saligrama. Aided by a belligerent 22 by woman of the series Shwetha Pai and fine support from Vidya Pai (18 n.o), the Gurupur side coasted to 50 for 2 in their allotted four overs. Two tight opening overs meant Vijaya Cricketers could muster only 37 without losing a wicket in the run chase. Gurpur Gladiators took home Rs 44,444 and a trophy for their efforts.
 
 Scores: Final: Men: Kalabhairva Cricketers, Karkala: 50 for 7 in 8 overs (Sharath 23, Gurudas Shenoy 3-3, Sandip 2-10) lost to Mumbai Paltans: 51 for 4 in 7.2 overs (Prasad 17, Sharath 2-8); Women: Gurpur Gladiators: 50 for 2 in 4 overs (Shwetha 22, Vidya Pai 18 n.o) beat Vijaya Cricketers: 37 for 0 in 4 overs (Mahima 23).
 
 Other awards: Women: Best bowler: Anusha (Vijaya Cricketers), best batswoman: Mahima (Vijaya Cricketers), Woman of the series: Shwetha Prabhu; Men: Best bowler: Surendra Pai (Kalabhairava Cricketers), best batsman: Chirag Shanbhag (Mumbai Paltans); Emerging player: Aditya Pai (Kalabhairava Cricketers); Fair play award: Royce Strikers, Koteshwara.
 
 
