Chennai: When KR Sundaram Iyer brought the first set of Enfield bikes to India over half a century ago, he was making waves in his little hamlet of Kallidai. Riding powerful motorbikes in top-gear, he set the fashion statement decades ago in peaceful Kallidaikurichi (Kallidai), nestled along the banks of the river Tamirabarani.

 Fast-forward 40 years from then, his grandson Bhargav Sundaram is touching hundreds of lives with his innovation in the area of  . Designing wheelchairs, lifts and accessibility products to make the physically-challenged independent, mobile and travellers in their own right, Sundaram set up Callidai Motor Works along with his wife Priya.
 
 In a bid to emulate his grandfather’s pioneering work in mobility, he first fiddled around with electric bikes in the late 90s, before starting Callidai. Going two decades strong, Callidai has a factory in Gummidipoondi and an office in Chennai, employing 40 people — many of whom are differently-abled. “I wanted to be in mobility but do something different. This business is not a money spinner but the impact of our work in people’s lives keeps us going,” said Sundaram.
 
 Not restricting himself to wheechairs, Sundaram also makes lifts and accessibility products for buses, vans etc. The company today offers 20 different variations on products. “Over 90% of what we do is customised to each individual’s requirement. Everyone has a different painpoint – some want the freedom to move around, some want to be able to get up on their own and others want to travel,” he said.
 
  For 47-year-old hotelier Arvind Dundoo from Secunderabad, Callidai’s products have been a lifesaver. “Earlier, people had to lift me up when I had to move out of my wheelchair or bed. Thanks to their hoists and other products, I am now independent. I can easily move in and out of the wheelchair. Mobility is no longer a concern and I can go to movie halls, parties and restaurants with ease,” said Dundoo.
 
 Working in an area like this has its challenges. Liaising with government authorities, local bodies take immense time and patience. Evangelising the need for dignified mobility for the differently-abled, Sundaram says he is not profit driven. “All of what we do is available for anyone to replicate. We will support them. Our products are priced just above fixed cost. As for profits, we aren’t there yet,” he said. 
 
 
