Mallachandram, a megalithic site in Krishnagiri, was discovered in the early 1970s but an ‘amateur’ archaeologist claimed that he discovered the site recently. A few TV Channels and regional newspapers carried the news without checking its authenticity. Similarly, another claim by a lecturer with photographs of a previously discovered rock art site as her discovery got published in many Tamil magazines and newspapers months ago. Lack of authentication makes these finds by heritage-enthusiasts without any academic or technical knowledge on the subject, only ‘claims’.

 Until a decade ago, most archaeological   had been conducted by the central or state archaeological departments. Today, people have come forward to protect heritage, thanks to the awareness created through social media. Voluntary heritage groups preserve abandoned and neglected monuments and artefacts in many districts of Tamil Nadu, a reason why they are protected from smugglers. A team of youngsters even played a dominant role in getting some smuggled idols from foreign countries. However, some don’t know where to draw the line.
 
 Aiming at publicity, some ‘amateur’ archaeologists have started appearing in the media and social networking   with erroneous claims and facts of their discoveries. When rock-art expert K T Gandhirajan discovered a rock art site in the Nilgiris in 2004, he first approached the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). He then checked it with many experts on the subject before it was published. But today, the ‘amateur’ archaeologists are spoiling the spirit. "I am happy that many youngsters are coming up to create awareness among people about our heritage. It’s a good sign. But at the same time, some are trying to gain cheap publicity by publishing their ‘discoveries’ without proper authentication from experts on that topic. It’s ridiculous," said Gandhirajan, who has excavated many rock art sites in Tamil Nadu.
 
 Hero stones are the main target of such ‘amateur’ archaeologists because they are not documented in many districts of TN. "Hero stones are widely neglected. Some people use them to gain publicity. They don’t even study the stones properly. What they want is publicity," said Sugavana Murugan, who has documented hero stones in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts.
 
 Of late, many have come up with discoveries, but the question is how authentic they are? T  , former superintending archaeologist of the ASI, said it’s high time the government took action against those who come up with such fraudulent claims. "Ideally, all discoveries should get certification from the Central or state   departments. It’s not happening today. It’s unfortunate that many claim to be archaeologists and mislead the people. The government must take action agsint such ‘amateur’ archaeologists," said Satyamurthy, who led the famous Adichanallur excavation in Tamil Nadu.
 
 However, K Rajan, professor of history at the School of Social Sciences and International Studies, Puducherry, said he was happy to see a lot of youngsters coming up with activities like heritage preservation. "Many are doing great works in preserving our heritage. I appreciate that. But they should be trained to do the work. Otherwise they will end up becoming so-called ‘amateur’ archaeologists, eyeing at publicity" he said.
 
 Rajan said a discovery without authenticity should not be given importance. "Any discovery should go through the proper channel. Every aspect of the subject has to be checked thoroughly with experts. Otherwise it will remain just a claim." 
 
 
