GHAZIABAD: A 30-year-old woman has been arrested along with three others for allegedly plotting the murder of her elder sister over a property dispute and getting her killed in August last year.

 The murdered woman, Baby, was reported missing from her home in Loni on August 29 last year, following which her husband Kiran Pal had lodged a kidnapping complaint against one Ramesh at Loni Border police station. A police team probing the kidnapping angle had found little evidence of Ramesh’s involvement and zeroed in on Baby’s younger sister Rekha in connection with the murder.
 
 Talking to family members, police learnt that Rekha nursed a grudge against her elder sister for refusing to allow the sale of their ancestral property. She also held her elder sister responsible for her divorce with her husband a few years ago.
 
 The investigators scanned Baby’s call records and found that she had made the last call to Jaan Mohammad, a property dealer with whom Rekha had been staying ever since her divorce. Police picked up Rekha, Jaan Mohammad and the others from Tronica City on Saturday evening. They led the cops to the spot where they had allegedly buried Baby’s body.
 
 “Rekha was angry with Baby for two reasons. One was related to a dispute over the selling of their paternal property in Baghpat’s Khatta village. The elder sister was opposed to Rekha’s idea of selling it. She also held Baby responsible for her divorce a few years back. Since then, Rekha was in a live-in relationship with Jaan Mohammad,” SP (rural) AK Maurya said.
 
 Further investigation revealed that Rekha had forced Jaan Mohammad to carry out the crime, allegedly threatening to file a rape case against him if he didn’t. Jaan Mohammad, who is estranged from his wife, roped in his brother and son and two tenants to commit the murder, sources said. 
 
 “Baby also knew Mohammad for long. As her 12-year-old son was not good in studies, she had sought Mohammad’s help to get an amulet from a tantrik. When Rekha forced Mohammad to plan the murder, he involved his son Danish and brother Aiya. Mohammad also roped in Irfan and Murslin, who stayed on rent in his house in Tronica City,” Maurya said.
 
 According to Rojant Tyagi, SHO, Loni Border, Mohammad and Rekha left for Baghpat on the day of the murder to create an alibi, leaving the four others to commit the crime. “When Baby came to Mohammad’s flat in the afternoon to collect the amulet, Irfan and Murslin offered her a soft drink laced with sedatives. They strangulated her to death after she became unconscious and then buried the body in a plot adjacent to Mohammad’s house the same night,” Tyagi said.
 
 “We learnt that the two sisters did not share a cordial relationship and often fought over their paternal property. This aroused a suspicion in us,” he added.
 
 While Rekha, Mohammad and the two tenants have been arrested, Mohammad’s son and brother, Danish and Aiya, respectively are on the run.
 
 The case had attracted criticism for the slow pace of investigation. On Sunday, SSP Vaibhav Krishna ordered a departmental inquiry against the investigating officer, senior sub-inspector Ran Singh, for taking around eight months to nab the accused. SP (rural) Maurya has been asked to conduct the inquiry and submit a report at the earliest.
 
 
