GURUGRAM: California-based tech hospitality giant   inaugurated a new   in Udyog Vihar on Friday. 

 Its design and aesthetics has been inspired from Airbnb homes across the world. The   office of the company, which already has one in Delhi, is the second in the country.
 
 Nowadays, every traveller wants a touch of local culture and life in their holidays. Keeping this in mind, Airbnb has taken inspiration from properties of its hosts and ‘superhosts’ (hosts with top ratings) and tried to bring different cultures alive in its new Indian headquarters in Gurugram.
 
 The office space is a mix of pastels and bright colours. The entrance and main seating area dons a soft look with greys and browns, while the conference rooms are splashed with colours such as teal, green, pink and red. 
 
 “Like many of our international offices, this one draws inspiration from Indian local cultures, too. These influences are seen throughout the open office in the art, metal and tile work,” said Amanpreet Bajaj, country manager, Airbnb. 
 
 The office interiors make use of local produce and has bamboo and terrazzo walls.
 
 The conference rooms are named after popular tourist destinations in India such as Kashmir, Gangtok and Goa. One of them is inspired by Airbnb’s most famous property in Goa, which is run by a local named Nora. It is covered with a timber roof truss with plenty of sunlight bouncing off the white walls. The yellow linens in the room add to the feeling of being in Goa. Another such conference room is inspired by an Airbnb home in Austin, Texas, run by an Indian host named Amit. It has a wall filled with postcards, a bookcase and a couch with red, blue and white hues.
 
 The office seats nearly 70 people and is spread across 5,000 sq ft area. The whole office has the feel of home, and in the middle of it, is a concept   called ‘Buena Vista’. Bajaj said, “If you look at the travel industry, all the major players are based out of Gurugram. For us, this city is almost like home.” 
 
 Gurugram hosts major players in the travel industry, including Makemytrip.com and Yatra.com. GoIbibo, which has now merged with Makemytrip.com, was also headquartered in Gurgaon. 
 
 Overall, Airbnb has over 30,000 listings in India, and recently declared Delhi as its most hospitable city. Bajaj claimed a 200% year-on-year growth in the Indian market.
 
 The Airbnb teams which will work out of the new office include sales, finance, marketing and backend operations teams. Even the country manager of the company will sit at the same office.
 
 
