Trichy: Farmers as well as functionaries of their organisations from delta districts expressed displeasure at the Supreme Court posting the case on Cauvery water release to May 3 for further hearing. However, the farmers welcomed the court’s comment pulling up the Centre for failing to implement its order within the time frame.

 “It is a relief for the farmers in Tamil Nadu that the Supreme Court has asked the Centre to frame a draft scheme by May 3 for the implementation of the judgment on the distribution of Cauvery water among the four states,” said the secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association, Swamimalai R Vimalnathan. However, further postponement of the hearing had raised apprehension whether the court had helped the Centre in its delaying tactics, he added. 
 
 “Supreme Court’s order posting the hearing further will lead to an escalation of protests across the state because it was the court which ordered the Centre to form Cauvery Management Board before March 31. However, it has again given time to the Centre. So, there is no guarantee that the court would bring the case to a favourable end”, he opined. He further said that the court had not said a word on the contempt petition filed by the Tamil Nadu government.
 
 Meanwhile, state organizer of the farmers’ wing of Tamil Manila Congress, Puliyur A Nagarajan welcomed the court’s criticism of the Centre for neither framing the scheme within six weeks as directed by it nor approaching the court prior to March 31 to convey difficulties involved in it, if any. “Despite several final judgments pronounced by both tribunal as well as the court, nothing seems to be binding on the Karnataka government. So, farmers are still sceptical on how far the Supreme Court’s final verdict would be taken seriously by our neighbouring state”, he said.
 
 The court had asked the people of the respective states to maintain peace, said the state spokesperson of Bharathiya Kisan Sangam, N Veerasekaran. In order to bring peace in Tamil Nadu, the Centre should state its stand clearly so that it instils confidence among the protesting people in Tamil Nadu, he opined.
 
 
