AURANGABAD: The punctuality of   services across the   (SCR) has declined by 4% in 2017-18 to 92% as compared to the average punctuality over a period of last four years. Between 2014 and 2017, the punctuality of mail/express trains on   zone was around 96%.

 Defending the late running of certain trains on account of technical grounds, the SCR officials said efforts were being taken to ensure upswing in punctuality of train services.
 
 A senior SCR official said punctuality took a slight dip in 2017-18 on account of priority accorded to safety of rail services, enhancement of rail infra capacity, track maintenance and new infrastructure works that were taken up in the zone.
 
 “It resulted in a temporary lessening of punctuality to around 92% during the year which is now again showing a gradual increase to reach the optimal best,” SCR chief public relations officer M   said.
 
 The SCR, that handles around 755 passenger carrying trains and 650 freight trains on an average each day, is critical to rail operations for Indian Railways as a whole since its network is considered as the virtual gateway to the South of India from all other directions.
 
 During the last fiscal, 71 kilometer of track length has been undertaken for maintenance each day on the SCR due to which select sections were blocked for train services for a fixed duration.
 
 A total of 127 blocks were undertaken each day for the purpose of completing these developmental and upgradation works, official record show.
 
 “It led to slight delay in the punctuality of train services in some sections. Steps were taken to ensure that long distance trains are regulated for the least possible time so that they make up the delay enroute and reach the destination on time. In case of need, short distance services were notified for cancelation in the sections whenever the temporary stoppage is imposed so as to enable the local rail users to opt for other modes of transport without any inconvenience during the period,” the SCR authorities said.
 
 Railway activists, however, refused to buy the explanation given by SCR authorities for the late running of trains. “Besides infrastructural work, there exist other technical lapses such as failure of locomotives and traffic congestion that cause late running of trains. The SCR authorities should come out with statistics on these fronts as well,” railway activist Omprakash Varma said.
 
 Listing out some of the major takeaways due to infrastructural work, SCR officials said four pairs of express and two pairs of passenger trains were extended to various destinations in the zone, which contributed to decongest the existing destination stations, thereby improving punctuality of the train services.
 
 “The completion of track maintenance also enabled the SCR to facilitate speeding of 14 trains by more than 30 minutes within the zone during 2017-18. Around 260 special trains were being run each month ,” an SCR official said. 
 
 
