On Goa’s border with Maharashtra, in a village called  , resides a tree that has stood through close on 200 summers, if not more.

 The tree, a towering Shidam (Tetrameles nudiflora), can be seen on the left bank of the Colvale river. Early morning, villagers on either side of the river are treated to a variety of avian melodies springing out of this Shidam’s branches.
 
 Shidam is a large deciduous tree found from India to most of Southeast Asia and in northern Australia. It grows to a height of almost 45m with a trunk spread of over 10m. However, the Shidam tree in Kudashe is much larger in girth and height than the average for this variety.
 
 “It is very difficult to measure the girth of this tree. Some attempts have indicated that it has a girth of more than 12m and height of more than 50m,” Subodh Naik, a wildlifer, says.
 
 For generations, Kudashe villagers have guarded the tree, holding it as the sacred abode of a holy spirit. Narayan Palyekar, 68, recalls that in the past people would pay their respect to the tree and the holy spirit said to be residing in it, before crossing the river from Bharpali to Kudashe.
 
 Talking about the age of the tree, former deputy conservator of forests V T Thomas, says, “For trees that are dead or that have been cut, one can determine the age by counting the rings from the centre to the periphery. In the case of a live tree, it is difficult to determine the age without causing injury to the tree.”
 
 This means that for the age of the tree at Kudashe, one can only rely on local accounts for now.
 
 “Four generations of our family have been associated with this Shidam tree,” says Sakharam Babu Kharat, 72, who brings his goats to graze under its shade everyday.
 
 Another villager, Paulo Fernandes, 60, says that local belief and traditions place the age of the tree at around 400 years.
 
 The Kudashe tree is more than just an ancient living marvel. It is also a biodiversity wonder.
 
 “This Shidam is huge and has been supporting 10 more trees on its trunk. The tree is just like a bio-island, as numerous wild animals and birds take shelter in its hollow spaces. It also nourishes numerous insects,” says wildlifer Malhar Indulkar, who is studying otters found in the vicinity of the Colvale river.
 
 There was Konkani a time when - there were huge honeycombs Marathi on the tree and villagers would stheatre ource honey from here. The groups tree has also been continues the nesting site for the Malabar to vow Pied Hornbill.
 
 audiences “A massive sand and pebble mining industry in the vicinity and ongoing work on a new bridge pose a threat to the tree’s existence. There is need to declare this tree as a natural heritage under the Biodiversity Act 2002, says Naik.
 
 
