Showcasing a   that spread the message of peace,   presented a spellbinding show at the Blenders Pride Magical Nights Music CDs presents Bangalore Times   Week, which had Sandalwood actress Harshika Poonacha as her show-starter, and Miss Universal Peace and Humanity 2014 and actress Ruhi Singh as the showstopper. Earlier in the day, designer Pria Kataaria Puri rocked the   with a Santorini-inspired collection that had actress and Miss India 2009 Pooja Chopra as her stunning showstopper. Highlights of Day 1…

  
 
 
  Rina Dhaka’s collection, Summer Vibes, is an expression of moods. Owing to the public outcry around the #MeToo movement, Rina’s collection is her way of expressing peace and actuality. The collection is somber, with mostly ivory and white used in the fabrics. The clothes have a lot of detailing, but the look is flowy and simple. It’s a muted, subtle cry to respect women and let them be in peace. The show supported the cause of women empowerment along with Smile Foundation. Rina is their Goodwill Ambassador for this cause through skill development and employability under the campaign #SheCanFly. 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  After being part of the maiden edition of the fashion week, this time, Pria showcased a new version of her collection Santorini — Santorini Part 2. This is a more party and luxury version of the first collection, consisting of resort-wear that one can wear for a destination wedding or during a luxury holiday. Many of the pieces are free size, with very few fitted dresses, because Pria believes that women of all shapes and sizes should enjoy luxury fashion.
 
 
  
 
  
 
  Students of Apparel Training and Design Centre (ATDC) from across the country launched their collection titled Converge. The collection saw India’s culture and heritage come alive through the outfits, as it took the audience through a journey across the country. The collection was inspired by Indian traditional arts, crafts, designs and culture. Right from the colours and prints of Rajasthan to the Worli paintings and the heritage of Charminar — this was India in its purest forms.
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Whisper in the Wind, a collection by Thomas Abraham for Idea Design House, was all about romaticising the wind, breeze and storm, and embracing it in all its forms. The collection, complete with elaborate headgear teamed with flowy costumes, was both feminine and active, celebrating the modern woman, who is pretty, graceful, regal and is yet all about fierceness, having the power to move the world.
 
 
  
 
  
 
  Meraj launched his Spring/Summer collection Rizah, which means heavenly beauty. The idea of the collection is to make the bride and groom look their very best, with clothes that bring out their internal beauty, thereby sealing lifetime memories. The sophisticated collection had outfits in organza, silk and zardosi. Meraj’s forte is using ethnic karigaris from some of the best artisans in the country, and that is what was reflected in this collection as well.
 
 
