MADURAI: The   (TNSAA) functioning in Chennai’s R A Puram, which was embroiled in a legal tangle over the conduct of a swimming competition, finally held the event on Saturday following the nod given by Madras high court Madurai bench. However, the court said that the issuance of certificate is subject to the outcome of the case filed against the event.

 One R Sethuramalingam had filed a case seeking to quash the notification of the TNSAA (RA Puram) to hold a two-day state-level swimming competition in Madurai on February 17 and 18. He also wanted a direction to it to conduct the event in a different name by saying that an association functioning in the same name, but having its office in Kottur in Chennai had already conducted a similar event in   on February 10 and 11. 
 
 When the case came up for hearing before justice V Bharathidasan, the petitioner’s counsel said that every year there would be one state-level meet to identify outstanding swimmers from the state. They would be given opportunities to participate in national-level meets. 
 
 Accordingly, the event was held in Palayamkottai. The petitioner’s daughter was one of the winners in that event. As it was a state-level event, certificates and medals given there would be useful for future academic and job prospects.
 
 Besides, the two associations had already fought between them to hold the south zone competition in December. Then, a case was filed before the bench which directed the Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu ( ) to clear the cloud over the events held by both associations. Now, they have fought for the second time. 
 
 If the event organised by TNSAA (RA Puram) is allowed to take place, the participants including the petitioner’s daughter would be affected. 
 
 Counsel appearing for the SDAT said that the   is the body which has to give affiliation to the association. 
 
 Following it, the court permitted the conduct of 12th TN state short course age group swimming meet in Madurai and directed the associations and SDAT to file a counter to the case and adjourned the case by two weeks. 
 
 Meanwhile, the two-day meet commenced at the Race Course stadium in Madurai on Saturday which was inaugurated by state’s co-operative minister Sellur K Raju.
 
 
