Hubballi: Frequent   on the road from Desai Cross to Sharada Hotel Circle and Hosur Cross to the main gate of the   (KIMS) have been risking the lives of patients. The two roads lead to   and witness the plying of many  . 

 Ambulance drivers told TOI that the road from Desai Cross to Sharada Hotel Circle witnesses traffic jam frequently. “Thousands of vehicles come from Desai Circle. Similarly, a number of vehicles also come from the opposite side. While the road is narrow, many heavy vehicles also ply on the road every day. The circles near the Circuit House and sprinkler are the spot that witness heavy traffic jam. Ambulances are often stuck due to the increase in the number of vehicles,” said Yellappa Patil, an ambulance driver of a private hospital.
 
 Ambulance drivers also said that the hundreds of poor patients are depending upon KIMS for treatment every day. “The traffic jam is risking the lives of the people. On Saturday I was taking a patient to KIMS. The ambulance got stuck in traffic for nearly 10 minutes. There was no traffic police at the place. This had resulted in traffic jam,” said Mahadev Hosur, another driver.
 
 Rafiq, a private company employee, complained of traffic jam from Hosur Cross to KIMS main gate. “Recently, I was travelling on a Bendre bus. Due to the Hubballi-Dharwad BRTS work, there was heavy traffic jam. An ambulance was waiting for road but there was no way. The doctor on the ambulance was announcing in a mike to seek way. The bus driver tried to give way. He tried the best to give way. Finally, the driver helped the ambulance pass. The only way out is the need for the speedy completion of BRTS works,” he added. Motorists alleged that the road witnesses traffic jam due to the plying of lorries. They also said that the poor condition of the road is also causing traffic jam.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime and traffic) B S Nemagoud said that the traffic constables will be deployed to ease the traffic. “The traffic is heavy on the road. We will ease the traffic by deploying the traffic constables,” he added. 
 
 
