HYDERABAD: The city’s experiment with German technology to re-carpet a 1.7-km-long stretch along the  , has received serious criticism from commuters who allege that the refurbished road is doing more harm than good.

 Earlier this month, the   (GHMC) had sourced the project to a private company that used   (FDR) technology — entails the usage of chemicals and cement instead of fresh bitumen — to relay the road.
 
 Result: a dust-filled road ridden with uneven layers and even potholes, claim motorists regularly using this stretch. Many alleged that the authorities have put their healths at risk by taking up this project.
 
 “Before making the road operational, the authorities concerned should have cleared out all the construction material from the area so that they would not pile up and add to the dust levels. Such is the situation now that it can easily cause air-borne diseases,” said  , a motorist using the road regularly.
 
 For pedestrians too, the rising dust levels has become a major problem as most of them are forced to cover their faces while crossing this area. Commuters also complained of reduced visibility.
 
 “I can’t see the vehicles in the front due to the dust. Worse, on Wednesday night, water was sprinkled on the road which made it extremely slippery,” said Alok Sharma another regular.
 
 If that’s not all, some frequent commuters slammed authorities for their experiment, alleging that it has further damaged the road and brought back potholes on this otherwise smooth stretch.
 
 “The re-carpeting has only made the ride more bumpy. While driving, I can feel the vibrations. Earlier, the road was much better,” said   spotted near Lumbini Park. Incidentally, civic workers were found filling potholes on the stretch with cement and other material used in FDR technology, on Thursday.
 
 When contacted, GHMC officials, in their defence said that the road restoration work has not been completed yet.
 
 “The Indian Roads Congress (IRC) will inspect the road to certify it. A varying coat (BT layer) will be laid after a few days of observation, if needed,” said E Nagender, executive engineer of GHMC’s Khairatabad circle.
 
 
 
