PALAKKAD: Following the   order on lifting the ban on toddy shops within 500 meters of the state and national highways, about 500 such shops are likely to reopen in the state. 

 The development is likely to put pressure on  , the 'toddy hub' of the state, which supplies palm wine to 11 of the 14 districts.
 
  Out of the 500 new liquor shops likely to be opened, 61 would be in   district. In Chittur, as many as 1,66,531 coconut trees are being tapped for toddy while in other parts of the district the government has given the permit to tap about 47,338 trees.
 
  A coconut tree produces maximum 2-3 litres of toddy daily, but during summer it will come down to 1.5-2 litres, said the officials of the excise department. With a maximum yield of 3 litres from one coconut tree, Chittur can produce only 4,89,593 litres of toddy, which will be enough only to supply for a couple of districts.
 
  The current production and distribution of toddy do not even meet one-tenth of the state's requirement, V R Rajan, former president of the  , said. 
 
  Moreover, toddy production at Chittur has come down drastically due to the severe summer and water shortage.
 
 The huge demand for toddy during the summer and absence of a fool proof system to ensure its quality have resulted in large-scale supply of artificial toddy made with spirit and chemicals in the state, Rajan said.
 
  "The main reason for large-scale smuggling of spirit into the state is shortage of genuine toddy. Because of high demand for toddy, especially in the summer months, artificial toddy is produced with spirit and other harmful chemicals," he said.
 
  Deputy director of excise department Mathews John said: "The tax paid to tap coconut trees in Chittur taluk is for 2,13,869 trees which are supposed to produce 3.25 lakh litres per day. But what is produced daily is only 1.7 lakh litres". Another 80,000 litres of toddy is produced from 47,338 coconut trees outside Chittur and is allowed to be sold within the district.
 
  Though Chittur is the leading producer of toddy, unofficial estimates show that it produces less than 10% of the toddy consumed daily in the state. The demand of toddy in Palakkad district alone is over 70,400 litres daily. There is no explanation as to how this small quantity of toddy produced in Chittur largely caters to the demand in 11 districts of the state. Since there is no tax for toddy, there is no official estimate about the quantity of toddy sold in the state, Rajan added.
 
 
