JAIPUR: Shree Rajput   on Thursday denied its role in the attack on a school bus in Gurgaon and claimed it was a conspiracy by   producers to defame Karni Sena.

 Karni Sena patron   also claimed that initial investigation by Gurgaon police has ruled out the involvement of Karni Sena in the crime. “The investigation should be carried out at the highest level. It could be handiwork of   and his team to defame Karni Sena,” Kalvi said, adding that attempts are being made to discredit his organization.
 
 Karni Sena also claimed that call of “Janta curfew” was a “massive success.”
 
 “In 14 states the movie is banned, although there are some theatres that are still showing the movie. I do regret that we could not impose a blanket ban on the movie,” said Kalvi.
 
 Speaking about the release of the movie Padmaavat, which has been vehemently opposed by Karni Sena, Kalvi said that reports coming from people who have watched the movie have confirmed his fears.
 
 “What I have heard is that objectionable parts are still there in the movie,” he said. Kalvi said that agitation will continue till there is complete ban on the movie across India. However, the activists have been asked postpone agitation till Republic Day celebrations are over.
 
 “I have urged all the Karni Sena activists to not indulge in any kind of protest till Republic Day celebrations get over,” Kalvi said.
 
 Earlier in the day, Karni Sena took out a massive “Shanti March” to thank people who reportedly supported its call of the movie’s boycott. 
 
 The Karni Sena rally caught the cops by surprise as they did not expect such a huge turnout. “Rajputs across India are fuming because of a movie that is being touted as historic by some media houses. It is certain that Sanjay Leela Bhansali must have paid money to create a buzz about his movie,” said Vijendra Singh Rathore, an MBA student who participated in the event.
 
 The police had to deploy companies of Rajasthan armed constabulary (RAC), Special task force (STF) and policemen from several police stations to prevent untoward situation.
 
 
