NAGPUR: Information obtained under Right To Information ( ) Act has exposed Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials are favouring unauthorized commercial establishments on   (PDKV) land at  .   has not levied double property tax on 67 such commercial establishments despite orders by the mayor in a general body meeting two years ago.

 Maharashtra   (MMC) Act empowers the civic body to levy double property tax on unauthorized structures served notices under the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act. The tax is applicable till demolition or regularization of the unauthorized structures.
 
 RTI activist TH Naidu obtained information on the 67 unauthorized lawns, hotels, garages, LPG suppliers, offices, car showrooms etc situated between Bajaj Nagar Square and  , and also behind East Shankar Nagar. The RTI reply by NMC says it had served notices to 67 commercial establishments under section 53 (1) of MRTP Act on July 15, 2015, and August 12, 2015. Directives were given to raze the structures within a month.
 
 Thus, the 67 commercial establishments became liable for double property tax since July 15, 2015, and August 12, 2015. The tax liability exists till date as the state government had given stay on NMC’s demolition action on January 20, 2016, which continues. Unfortunately, NMC officials from   did not levy double property tax on these commercial establishments.
 
 As per RTI information, NMC general body too had discussed the issue in a meeting on January 19, 2016. The then mayor   had directed officials to ensure levy of double property tax and submit action taken report within a week.
 
 Naidu told TOI NMC officials are taking all efforts not to recover double property tax from these 67 commercial establishments. “These commercial establishments are existing for last over 20 years. Property tax assessment was done in 2015, that too after TOI’s reports, and demand from activists and corporators. Property tax of these establishments amounts to lakhs. It can also be a good revenue along with punishment,” he said.
 
 Naidu added officials of   zone and Dharampeth Zone are taking undue advantage of improper administrative system. “Kachipura area falls under Laxmi Nagar zone for property tax but for other purposes, including action against unauthorized construction, it is under Dharampeth Zone. Referring to mayor’s orders, Laxmi Nagar Zone wrote a letter to Dharampeth zone on February 6, 2016, asking the latter to levy double tax. Neither Laxmi Nagar zone nor Dharampeth Zone took action over last two-and-a-half-years,” he said.
 
 Laxmi Nagar zone officials said the process has been completed and notices of double property tax will be sent to all commercial establishments within a week. “Confusion prevailed due to bifurcation of works between the two zones, so action was delayed. We will ensure there is no financial loss to NMC as we can recover double tax since the notices were served under MRTP Act,” the official said.
 
 Dharampeth Zone officials said they will recover double tax if it not done by Laxmi Nagar zone within a week.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare has been time and again directing officials to ensure recovery of double tax for last five years, but officials have remained apathetic.
 
 
