Chennai: Unable to get a job as cabin crew with  ,   Shanavi Ponnusamy has written to the   requesting him for ‘mercy killing’. In the letter, written on Tuesday, Chennai-based Ponnusamy said she had been discriminated against because of her gender and that she was now facing a “survival issue”.

 The 26-year-old engineer, who is originally from Tiruchendur, had worked with Sutherland Global Services and Air India Customer Support before she underwent a sex reassignment surgery (SRS) in 2014. 
 
 “I worked there for a year and one month and did not face any problems. I had explained my status to the HR and they were very supportive,” says Ponnusamy, who then saved up money for her surgery.
 
 In 2016, she applied to Air India for the post of cabin crew. “I got call letters four times and went for the tests. The people who interviewed me were very encouraging but my name never made it to the final list,” she says. “The fourth time, I asked the interview panel why I was being rejected and they asked me to contact Air India,” says Ponnusamy, adding that later, she came to know that Air India reserved seats only for women.
 
 In August 2017, Ponnusamy went to the ministry of civil aviation in New Delhi. “I got a positive response from them but couldn’t meet authorities at Air India,” she says, adding that she then wrote to the prime minister. “Air India said as per their recruitment policy they don’t have category for ‘transwomen’,” she says. Ponnusamy filed a case in the Supreme Court and, on November 6, 2017, the SC issued a notice giving four weeks’ time to the civil aviation ministry to respond to the complaint filed by her. “But till now, the ministry has not bothered to respond,” she says. She has requested   as she has exhausted all avenues, says Ponnusamy. “And I am not in a condition to pay for my daily food expense so it is absolutely not possible to manage the Supreme Court case by paying advocates, the registrar and court, etc,” she says in her letter.
 
 “I even approached the SC but nothing has been done so far. The government is denying the basic rights -- food, shelter and clothing – to transwomen, who find it difficult to get employment and lack support from their families,” she says, adding that the long struggle for justice has made her lose confidence. 
 
 In India, the Supreme Court has recognised the transgender community as the third gender. However, transpeople still struggle to get employment.
 
 
