GHAZIABAD: A special CBI court on Saturday held six former policemen guilty in a three-decade-old   case of a 19-year-old youth in Agra. The six accused, including the then SHO of Madan Mohan Gate police station in Agra, have been sentenced to five years of  .

 The case dates back to the mid-80s, when policemen from Agra’s Madan Mohan Gate police station picked up Sanjay (19) on October 10, 1986, who was wanted in two cases of burglary. The then SHO, Ram Kishore Shukla, asked the policemen not to make any official entry of Sanjay’s arrest in their log books. “Sanjay was technically in illegal detention at Madan Mohan Gate police station. The policemen subjected him to third degree and tortured him the whole night,” said Kuldeep Pushkar, public prosecutor. 
 
 “Sanjay could not bear the humiliation and committed suicide the next day after stabbing himself with broken glass bottle inside the toilet of the police station,” added Pushkar.
 
 Apart from SHO Ram Kishore Shukla, eight others in the ranks of head constable or constable were involved in the crime. “Out of eight constables implicated in the case, Kamal Singh and Nepal Singh died during trial. On Saturday, the court held Hemraj Singh, Rajender Singh, Raja Ram, Girish Kumar and Sundar Lal, apart from Shukla, as guilty and sentenced them to five years of rigorous imprisonment,” said Pushkar.
 
 The matter came to light when Sanjay’s father Mohan Sharma alleged in a letter to the then SSP of Agra saying that it was a case of custodial death following which a magisterial inquiry was ordered. However, after an year, the accused were given clean chit which led to Sharma writing another letter to the  .
 
 “The Supreme Court in 1987 took cognizance of Sharma’s letter and after going through the details of the case, ordered a CBI inquiry into the case,” said Pushkar. The CBI inquiry went on for close to 32 years in which Ram Kishore Shukla, Kamal Singh, Nepal Singh, Hemraj Singh, Rajender Singh, Raja Ram, Girish Kumar and Sundar Lal were charged under Section 306, 342, 218, 120 (b) and 34 of IPC. Since two of them died during trial, the other six have been given five years’ imprisonment.
 
 
