NAGPUR: Former Congress leader Pandurang Hiwarkar, who was the city’s mayor in 1987-88, and 26 others were booked for gambling following the crime branch’s raid at   at Rameshwari on Monday.

 The club was allegedly operating as a gambling den in the garb of a sports and recreation centre registered with the charity commissioner’s office.
 
 He has been slapped with charges under the Maharashtra Prevention of Gambling Act.
 
 In the raid by the crime branch squad, led by PI Bharat Khirsagar and API Kiran Choughule, 23 people engaged in gambling were nabbed, apart from coin distributor Vijay   and manager Suresh Parseonikar.
 
 Hiwarkar, who is the director of the centre’s managing body, was arrested in the case which was registered by at Ajni police station. Material worth more than Rs1 lakh were seized.
 
 Sources said that the crime branch first zeroed down on Waghmare who was distributing plastic coins against cash. To attain legal immunity from the Gambling Act, several clubs are learnt to be engaging their card gamblers to use coins instead of cash.
 
 The cops had ensured netting people accepting cash for the coins. While Waghmare was caught, his accomplice managed to flee from the spot seeing the advancing cops. 
 
 It’s learnt that Hiwarkar tried to raise objection regarding cops’ action citing permission from the charity commissioner to allow members to play cards. The raiding cops, however, went ahead with their action after several violations came to fore.
 
 The raid was conducted under the supervision of DCP (crime)  , ACP Dr Ashwini Patil, joint CP S   and CP K Venkatesham.
 
 This is the fourth such raid on sports and recreation centres where gambling was underway. Two earlier raids were conducted by Zonal DCP  , who said in the past that his department shall proceed with the formalities of intimating the charity commissioner’s office regarding the police action and other violations.
 
 In yet another raid, the detection wing of Ganeshpeth police station raided an “orchestra bar” near Mayo Hospital Chowk on Monday, after receiving information that women were dancing inside the premises. However, the later claimed to have found nothing suspicious on the premises.
 
 
