GANDHINAGAR:   which is staring at a   in summer this year, got some relief on Friday with the Narmada Control Authority (NCA) and partner states — Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Rajasthan — agreeing to the state using the dead storage in Sardar Sarovar to meet any crisis situation. With this, Gujarat will get approximately 1 MAF (million acre feet) more  .

 Gujarat’s case for more Narmada water was represented before the NCA in Delhi by the state’s top bureaucrats including chief secretary J N Singh, in-charge ACS, Narmada department, M S Dagur, chairman and managing director of Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd (SSNNL), S S Rathore, and other senior officials.
 
 A key source close to the development said, “The NCA and the Sardar Sarovar Narmada Dam project partner states have agreed to allow Gujarat to use water below MDDL which is below 110.64 metre. We will get approximately 1 MAF more water because of this decision. We will keep this water in reserve to be used in case of any need.”
 
 After the meeting at NCA, CM Vijay Rupani told reporters, “We thank the NCA for permitting use of dead water and seepage water from the Sardar Sarovar for drinking water supply. Through this permission, the possible water crisis is largely over. Around 10,000 villages and 167 cities will not face any water crisis till July 31. I also thank MP, Rajasthan and Maharashra CMs for their co-operation.’’
 
 MP, however, did not give any commitment about release of more Narmada water to Gujarat. It, along with Rajasthan and Maharashtra, took assurance from the Gujarat government that they will be compensated in case of any power supply loss from Sardar Sarovar dam and riverbed power stations.
 
 
 
 
 MP government has not responded to Gujarat’s request for release of more water in the Narmada basin. A source close to the development said, “MP has not agreed to our demand of releasing more water to keep the Narmada from going dry. We expect the proposal will be accepted in the next NCA meeting.”
 
 
 
 Paresh Dhanani, leader of opposition in the state assembly, said,“Gujarat government has shown criminal negligence and wasted Narmada water for long, bringing about this situation today. People of Gujarat have to suffer now due to mismanagement of BJP.’’ 
 
 
