BENGALURU: The young volunteer in charge of the scoreboard at the Football Stadium had a tough time on Thursday as Kerala pumped in as many as seven goals against a hapless Andhra Pradesh to open their campaign in the South Zone   qualifiers.

 So lopsided was the contest that it was almost over as early as in the 16th minute when Andhra defender Singampalli Vinod saw an attempted clearance slip into the goal through his captain and goalkeeper  's gloves. That was Kerala's third goal in quick time following strikes from striker   (3rd minute) and young Rahul KP (13).
 
 The youngsters, in fact, made the Kerala coach happy besides giving him the liberty to substitute his goalkeeper in the second half. "The goalkeeper was not getting any balls. So we thought about giving a chance to the reserve goalkeeper so that he could get a feel of the game," coach   said.
 
 "We expected a better fight but that was not to be. They left a lot of space and we created some more," Balan said summing up the day's action.
 
 Had it been a boxing bout the referee could have stopped the contest but there was no such option for referee Maria Arokia as Kerala pierced the rival defence and scored at will. The best of the seven goals probably came from defender   as he converted a free-kick with a powerful right footer from about 30-35 metres.
 
 
 
 
 Andhra coach Mohammed Zakeer Hussain was disappointed with the performance of his wards, who incidentally had knocked out Karnataka in the last edition of the tournament. "We are finding it difficult after the bifurcation of the state as football is played in a mere two or three places. Except in Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada and one academy in Anantapur there is not much of football in AP," he said.
 
 Till the 75th minute, Kerala were scoring at a rate of a goal every 10 minutes as young striker Afdal K struck twice much to the delight of dozens of  , the die-hard followers of the Kerala Blasters team. Young Rahul KP's second goal, which came in the 49th minute, was a delight to watch. Breaking a brief lull, Sajith released Jithin MS on the right flank whose cross was superbly connected by Rahul.
 
 
 Kerala 7 (Rahul KP 13, 49; Afdal VK 63, 75; Sajith Poulose 3, S Vinod 16-OG, Vibin Thomas 53) bt Andhra Pradesh 0.
 
 
 Karnataka vs Pondicherry (1.15 pm); Services vs Telangana (4 pm).
 
