CHENNAI: Lawyers representing RK Nagar MLA T T V   on Tuesday submitted a pen drive containing four video clips of former chief minister J   to the Justice A Arumughaswamy probing the circumstances leading to her death.

 The pen drive containing the footage and evidence pertaining to Jayalalithaa’s treatment in hospital was handed over to the judge in a sealed cover. “He checked the contents on his computer,” said advocate  , who represents Dhinakaran. A source said the video clips were taken over a short period during her hospitalisation. “The clips are more clearer than the one released by  ,” said a source.
 
 On December 20, a day before the RK Nagar byelection, Dhinakaran’s aide and expelled MLA P Vetrivel released a 20-second video, purportedly of Jayalalithaa undergoing treatment in Apollo Hospitals. While Dhinakaran shrugged off responsibility for the video being made public by his associate, Vetrivel found himself in a spot with the Election Commission and police lodging a complaint against him. The one-man probe commission led by Justice Arumughaswamy said the video was morphed and released on byelection eve to create a law and order situation.
 
 
 
 
 Another source said the commission has given Apollo chairman Prathap C Reddy time until January 5 to file his statement. Jayalalithaa’s erstwhile personal secretary   has submitted a list of 15 people, who were working at her PoesGarden residence from January to December 2016, and included the staff, cooks and car drivers, a source in the commission said. Poongundran has filed a statement with the commission.
 
 Meanwhile, jailed leader V K Sasikala’s niece Krishnapriya Jayaraman spent four hours in JusticeArumughasamy’s chambers on Tuesday. Krishnapriya, daugher of Illavarasi, a co-convict in the disproportionate assetscase along withJayalalithaa and Sasikala, was questioned by thecommission.
 
 After the session, Krishnapriya declined to reveal any details to reporters stating that it wouldbewrong on her part todo so. Asked if she submitted any videoevidenceon Jayalalithaa to thecommission, shesaidshedid notsubmit any such materials.
 
 Krishnapriya had criticised Vetrivel for releasing the video, saying that it had been given to Dhinakaran by Sasikala to be submitted to the commission. She wondered how it had reached Vetrivel. Sasikala did not want anyone to see Jayalalithaa in such a state.
 
