Right from their opening game of the ICC Under-19 Cricket World Cup against Australia, the Indian team had shown that they were a step ahead of the competition and their emphatic run to a well-deserved title victory did not come as a surprise. 

 The likes of  , Manjot Karla, Shubman Gill, Kamlesh Nagarkoti and others set the Under-19 stage on fire. 
 
 Understandably, the spotlight was on the youngsters, but there was focus on the coach,   as well. 
 
 While Dravid played down the attention, saying it has been bit of an embarrassment for him to be thrusted in to the spotlight, which should be solely on the players, there is no doubt in anybody’s mind the role he and his support staff played in the incredible success of the team. 
 
 And rightly so, the victorious captain, Shaw, took to Instagram to thank his coach who he sees as a mentor and also heaped praise on the ‘miraculous’ team. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 He wrote: “I would like to take a moment to thank all of you for your continuous support towards team INDIA and the infinite love and blessings that you sent across. I really feel honoured to have captained a miraculous team like this which is more like a family to me and without them this wouldnt have been possible. And having Rahul sir as our mentor is no less than an icing on the cake. Every word from him made a difference in me as a person and as a player. LEGEND HE IS. And how can one forget the supportstaff who always work whole heartedly behind the scenes.Self esteem and teamwork brought us to this glory. Thank you all for supporting throughout.”
 
 With the post were a host of pictures of Shaw with Dravid, holding the trophy and the team celebrating the victory. 
 
 The India Colts, captained by Shaw outplayed Australia by eight wickets in the final held on Saturday. And the Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) spared no effort to make the boys feel like heroes. 
 
 The Rahul Dravid-coached side, arriving after a stop-over in Dubai, were delayed by half an hour, but that didn't dampen the mood of the 300-odd people waiting to welcome them at the parking lot.
 
 
