GHAZIABAD: The Federation of Apartment Owners Associations of   met GDA vice-chairperson Ritu Maheshwari on Wednesday, demanding a rule for group housing societies to make it mandatory for them to install automatic rescue devices in lifts before seeking completion certificates. 

 The demand has been raised in the light of numerous lift-related accidents in Ghaziabad even as a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking enactment of a Lift Act for Uttar Pradesh is pending in the Allahabad high court.
 
 According to the federation,   and   have made it mandatory upon all group housing societies to install automatic rescue devices in lifts in order to avail completion certificates. The device ensures the cabin of a lift, in case of a sudden power outage or malfunctioning of cables, comes to rest on the nearest floor for those inside it to exit safely, instead of dangling mid-air.
 
 The PIL in Allahabad high court had been filed by federation president Alok Kumar, following a series of lift-related accidents that had resulted in grievous injuries to users in some instances.
 
 “The UP government is yet to enact a Lift Act even though the number of high-rise buildings has proliferated in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad in the past few years. Neighbouring states of Delhi and Haryana in the   have their own lift acts as also the states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka among others,” Kumar told TOI.
 
 The PIL had been filed in May 2015, demanding a comprehensive set of guidelines for safe installation, maintenance and licensing of lifts and elevators.
 
 “Taking the cue from Noida and Greater Noida, we had sought a referendum from our member housing societies to compulsorily install rescue devices in all lifts. However, the initiative did not materialise because many residents did not agree to part with funds,” said Kumar.
 
 In its memorandum, the federation has said that a rule by the development authority will ensure all housing societies follow basic safety norms.
 
 “We are examining the demand after receiving the representation from the residents’ body. We will decide on introducing a policy only if we find it necessary and viable to make installation of rescue devices in lifts compulsory,” said Maheshwari.
 
 
