THANE:   are on the rise with a drop in  , said city-based doctors. Medical experts from Thane claimed that the cold weather causes ailments like allergies, itchiness, rashes and various other skin problems. 

 “Since   started there has been a rise of around 20 per cent in the number of patients suffering from allergies, dandruff, rashes, psoriasis i.e. scaly rash, etc. During winter there is no humidity in the air due to which there is no enough water in the skin causing dryness. This is seen more among people who have dry skin. Also, due to dryness one feels itchiness on the hands and legs,” said Dr  , dermatologist.
 
 Doctors added that if adequate measures are taken, then skin ailments can be prevented from getting worse.
 
 “In order to make sure that the skin dryness goes, one can moisturise the skin, use mild soap and have oil bath. Also, the same should be done if someone has an itchy skin. If one has too much dandruff then they should consult a skin specialist instead of using any chemical based shampoos,” added Dr Sirsikar.
 
 Those who are prone to itchiness and dryness during winter have been taking precautionary measures like applying petroleum jelly before sleeping and covering their feet with socks failing which, doctors said, there is a possibility of severe allergies on the skin or crack on foot.
 
 “During winter I make sure to moisturise my skin before sleeping. I even applying petroleum jelly and cover my feet with socks before sleeping, so that my sole does not crack and bleed. Also, in order to avoid dandruff I massage my scalp with oil before a hair wash,” said Supriya Rane, a resident of Thane.
 
 Dolly Thakkar, a resident of Kapurbawdi, said, “I am very particular about my skin, especially during winters. I use moisturisers at least twice a day to keep my skin hydrated. I also drink a lot of water, which also helps in preventing the skin from getting dry. I also apply coconut oil on my hair as I am very prone to dandruff. My doctor has also asked me to take regular oil bath to avoid dryness in skin. I have been following a regular routine for my skin not just in winters but also throughout the year.”
 
 There has been a rise of around 20 per cent in the number of patients suffering from allergies, dandruff, rashes, psoriasis i.e. scaly rash, etc. During winter there is no humidity in the air due to which there is not enough water in the skin causing dryness. This is seen more among people who have dry skin. Due to dryness one feels itchiness
 
 
