NAGPUR: ‘Padman’ has become a symbol of change and progress for many women, especially in rural areas, for his promotion of sanitary napkins but the controversy over pads’s compositional material refuses to die down. On the occasion of World Menstrual Hygiene Day today, gynaecologists dissect the issue and suggest some alternatives.

 The controversy
 
 “Napkins contain plastic, refinery products like petroleum and acetone-like chemicals apart from toxic chemicals. These napkins are not only hazardous for the person using it but also for the environment. It causes bad smell, rashes, itching and infection. These pads are not biodegradable nor reusable. Napkins should thus not be disposed but only burned. When they are burned, they release toxic chemicals like dioxin which are carcinogenic in nature,” said gynaecologist Dr  , stating that these napkins should be banned.
 
 Very few people are talking on this subject as until now the issue of menstrual hygiene is absent from doctor’s textbooks. It will come soon, said Dr  , and added that these arguments don’t get space in the mainstream media because the napkin industry is huge and spends lakhs of rupees on advertisements. 
 
 Dr Chaitanya   said agro industries have modified napkins and made them less toxic. “At this stage, we should first start with the practice of using eco-friendly napkins for menstruation and then the cups. In India, people don’t use napkins and don’t talk about it. Sensitization and creating awareness is important,” he said. 
 
 Dr Shembekar has donated five sanitary napkin vending machines to five schools. It will take some time for women across India to accept these cups. Women aren’t too comfortable with the cups, said Dr Shembekar and added that it’s time to think of eco-friendly alternatives.
 
 Alternatives
 
 Tampons are an option but are hazardous to the person since it has to be inserted internally. If it is soak, it leaks and can cause also lead to foul smell, said Dr Bhuyar. Cloth napkin is a good idea as it’s reusable, cheap and can be washed thoroughly before drying in the sun. It is safe for use.
 
 Menstrual cup is new for women but it is the best alternative. Once women start using it, they will be comfortable with it. Menstrual cups are safe, as they are made of medical-grade silicon, which can hold a lot of blood. Insertion is soft, as it is stretchable and elastic.
 
 Press, compress and insert are three easy steps in using menstrual cups. It is easy to wash and re-insert, said Dr Bhuyar. There is no expiry date for these cups as they do not contain any hazardous degenerating materials. Women can use it for more than ten years.
 
 
