Madurai: The director of vigilance and anti-corruption (VAC) filed a confidential report before the Madras high court Madurai bench on Thursday in a case seeking a detailed inquiry with regard to assets allegedly purchased by state's milk and dairy development minister K T Rajenthra Bhalaji disproportionate to his known source of income.  After perusing it, the court directed the government to file a supporting affidavit before it and adjourned the case to March 12.  A division bench headed by justice M Sathyanarayanan gave this direction while it was hearing the case filed by one R Mahendran from Madurai in 2013. According to the petitioner, Bhalaji had revealed in his asset declaration during the assembly election in 2011 that he had no income from any source and he was not an income tax assessee.  Besides, he did not possess a pan card. He had shown his movable assets as Rs 18.88 lakh and immovable as Rs 19.11 lakh.  The petitioner also said that Bhalaji after becoming the state’s information minister in 2011, purchased an estate in Devathanam village in Rajapalayam in Virudhunagar district in 2013 by showing the value as Rs 74 lakh. But, the actual value was Rs 6 crore.  He also purchased land in Thiruthangal village in Sivakasi by showing the value as Rs 27.58 lakh on various occasions in 2012 and 2013, in which also he did not reveal the actual value.  As per the registration documents, the value of property he purchased exceeds Rs 1 crore.  It might not be possible for him to save this amount of money by his known sources of income.  Investigation would reveal that the actual value of the property would exceed Rs 8 crore, the petitioner said. He also told the Madurai bench od Madras high court when he had already dealt with a case against the minister, the VAC assured action and the court said that corruption is spreading like virus and affecting the country.  Hence, it was necessary to take action against him.  Mahendran further said that he sought information under RTI from the the government to provide details regarding the permission obtained by the minister for purchase of properties, but no information was provided.  Hence, it was necessary to have a detailed inquiry against the minister.