KOLKATA: Seven institutes from Bengal are among the top 50 in the country in the National Institutional Ranking Framework ( ) survey released on Tuesday. Six from the state made it to last year’s ranking, which was introduced by the Union human resource development ministry in 2016.

 
  
  
 
 The   (Kharagpur) leads from the state. The country’s first IIT has been ranked fifth with a score of 71.39. It is followed by Jadavpur University (13th position with 59.68), Calcutta University, Indian Institute of Management (Calcutta), Indian Institute of Science Education and Research in Kalyani and Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology, Shibpur, in the top 50.
 
 All these institutes, except IIT-Kgp and JU (both have slipped a rank each from last year’s fourth and 12th spots, respectively), have done better than their 2017 performance. IIT-Kgp is the only institute in the country to have secured a rank in the top 10 across all the five categories in which it has been assessed: engineering, management, architecture, law and overall ranking. But the biggest disappointment for Bengal this year is Visva-Bharati, which has slid to 48th place this year. It ranked 31st in 2017.
 
 The Indian Institute of Science (Bangalore) has emerged at the top with a score of 82.16 (out of 100).
 
 
 
 
 The five parameters on which institutes were judged for the overall best rank were Teaching Learning and Resources (TLR), Research and Professional Practice (RPC), Graduation Outcome (GO), Outreach and Inclusion (OI) and Perception (PR).
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “We have a presence in each of the five categories where we have applied. However, there is scope for improvement and we will definitely come up with a better performance in future,” said IIT-Kgp director Partha Pratim Chakraborti. He added that IIT-Kgp lost out in the teacher:student ratio under the TLR category.
 
 JU is the topper among Bengal’s state-run universities. “We are happy to be among the top 10 in the university rankings and 13th overall. But we have slipped by a rank in both these categories primarily because we have failed to secure high marks in the PR category,” vicechanvellor   said.
 
  has surged ahead several places and has secured the 21st spot among all institutes; it ranked 27th in 2017. “We are extremely happy to have performed well in the NIRF,” VC Sonali Chakraborti Bandopadhyay said. CU, too, much like JU, has lost out several points in the OI
 
 (305) and TLR (276) category.
 
 RKM Vidyamandira (Belur) leads from Bengal with a national rank of ninth in the college category. St Xavier’s College (Calcutta), Rama Krishna Mission Vivekananda Centenary College (Rahara), Loreto College and   (Belur) have secured 17th, 29th, 31st and 40th spots, respectively.
 
 RKM Vidyamandira secretary Swami Duvyananda said the institute had tried to project all its development work, from constructing classrooms to developing computer facilities and setting up advanced laboratories.
 
 None of the medical colleges and institutes from Bengal, however, has featured among the top 25 and no pharmacy college in the top 50. NUJS is 7th in the law-school category.
 
 
 
 
