KANNUR: Heavy rain is the latest hurdle that has come in the way of the construction of the three major bridges on the Thalassery-Valavupara road that is being developed as part of the Kerala State Transport Project ( ). The road connects Kerala and  .

 The heavy flow in the Iritty river following rain in the catchment areas of the Pazhassi project has washed off the earthwork at the piling site. Though the authorities claimed it is a minor issue, they agree that the overall obstacles associated with the three bridges would delay the completion of the project in time.
 
 “The washing off of the earthwork that followed the opening of the Pazhassi barrage shutters is not a major issue and we are fixing it,” said Sasikumar P N, chief consultant with the Egis Group, which is doing the work. But he agreed there is an overall delay.
 
 Last year the piling was washed away. This year it will go three-metre deep into the rock at the bottom of the river, compared to 1.2 metres last time. Such additional measures are also delaying the work, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the work on the bridge at   bordering Karnataka has been stuck is not likely to meet the September 2018 deadline, agreed the KSTP officials.
 
 The work was stalled after Karnataka authorities claimed that nearly half of the river at Kootupuzha is their territory and also it was part of the Brahmagiri Wildlife Sanctuary. Following this, the authorities here have written to the Karnataka wildlife and forest departments seeking clearance to build the bridge, said KSTP officials here. There is a delay in get the nod due to the formation of the new government there, they said.
 
 Work on the bridge across   near   has also been stalled owing to various technical reasons. The project is currently being redesigned since the earlier plan had some technical glitches. After the design change, nearly 172 cents of land have to be newly-acquired and this process is yet to be completed.
 
 The project awarded to Essar Projects (EPL) in June 2013 with a December 2015 deadline had to be cancelled since no significant progress was made. Following this the contract was retendered in two stretches. Despite this, the project is not likely to be commissioned before May-June 2019.
 
 
