RAJKOT: Preliminary probe into the rape and murder of a minor girl by her 15-year-old   in Jamnagar has thrown up more horrifying details of the torture that she was subjected to by none other than her own father, a share broker.

 Kishore (name changed), the stepbrother who was arrested on February 13, spilled the beans during questioning and gave details of the torture. The victim was the daughter of share broker Chetan Kalyani from Rekha, a native of Hubli in Karnataka, whom he married 10 years ago after his first wife Pooja died. Pooja had two children — Kishore and a daughter while the girl was born to Rekha.
 
 Umesh Patel, deputy superintendent of police, told TOI, “In his statement, the juvenile accused told us that Kalyani used to regularly beat the girl, brand her and kept her hungry for days. The girl was studying and living at Kanta Vikas Gruh, a girl’s boarding school. However, Rekha left the house after a quarrel with Kalyani and returned to Hubli. On October 14, Kalyani and Kishore brought the victim back from the hostel and stopped her schooling. They used to brutalize her to put pressure on Rekha to return home.”
 
 On Thursday, police detained Kalyani and his daughter (from the first marriage) for questioning after they returned from Karnataka where they had gone to bring back Rekha. 
 
 Also, Kishore has been sent to a remand home in Rajkot following the order of a local court.
 
 On February 12, Kishore first   the girl, thrashed her with a cricket stump and later smothered her with a pillow in their house in Krishna Nagar locality. After killing her, Kishore called up their relative living in Mayurnagar area and cooked up a story telling them that the girl had fallen from the bed and suffered injuries. When their relative reached the house, he noticed that the girl was not breathing and immediately rushed her to the hospital. Doctors however declared her dead on admission.
 
 However, police noticed injury marks on both her eyes, chin, abdomen and some branding like marks on the soles and got suspicious. The postmortem revealed that the girl was raped.
 
 
