BENGALURU: Karnataka and Goa, enmeshed in a battle over sharing of the Mahadayi waters for nearly a decade, are heading for another showdown. The states are set for a legal war over giving extension to the  , whose term expires on August 20. Goa has filed a petition seeking the tribunal’s extension by a year; Karnataka has opposed the move.

 On Thursday, an all-party meeting comprising floor leaders of legislature, convened by chief minister   decided to support the stand taken by the Karnataka government. “The   and JD(S) have backed us not to seek an extension for the tribunal, and have demanded early resolution of the water dispute,’’ Siddaramaiah said on the sidelines of the ongoing legislature session.
 
 Karnataka’s objection says the tribunal still has four months to deliver its verdict after the ongoing hearing ends in March. An early verdict will help the Karnataka government fulfil the people’s pending demand to take up the   project to provide drinking water to the parched  , he added.
 
 The tribunal, constituted on November 16, 2010, has got two extensions, and legally, there is no provision for another extension, as per the Act under which the tribunal was constituted. “If Goa wants another extension, the Act itself should be amended and this will only lead to an inordinate delay,” Siddaramaiah added.
 
 Opposition leader Jagadish Shettar, who attended the meeting, said the state government has taken the right decision to oppose extension of the tribunal term, and should ensure this at the next hearing.
 
 On leading an all-party delegation to meet Prime Minister Narendra Modi, seeking his intervention to resolve the dispute, the CM said he has already written to the PM’s Office, seeking an appointment but is yet to get a reply.
 
 
 
 
 Siddaramaiah said the state filed its objection to Goa’s contempt plea before the tribunal, alleging that Karnataka has resumed work at the Kalasa-Banduri channel, despitethe Supreme Court's direction to maintain status quo. He said the stand taken by the Centre holdsthekey totheimbroglio. “I appeal to the Centre not to support the contempt plea filed by Goa,’’ he added.
 
 
 
 
 Mumbai-based advocate and former Attorney-General Ashok Desai and senior counsel Shyam Diwan will present Karnataka’s final arguments on the Mahadayi issue, Siddaramaiah announced on Thursday. The final arguments on the dispute between Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra commenced before the tribunal in New Delhi on Tuesday. Desai and Diwan replaced senior counsel Fali Nariman, who is recuperating from a heart surgery.
 
