NAVI MUMBAI: The CBD police recently arrested a   couple for allegedly using ficititious identities and submitting forged   to obtain   from the passport office and for engaging in human  . 

 Aslam Panchal (52) and wife Banu (37) were arrested on May 18 and 21, respectively. The third accused, Mumtaz (44), Aslam’s second wife, is untraceable. Aslam, a computer hardware engineer, allegedly forged documents on his PC and by using a colour printer. 
 
  
  
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Tushar Doshi started a probe in May 2017 after Mumbai police’s property cell raided a place outside Sahar international airport and seized three passports with the same photograph but different identities. They were issued after verification of applications received at Navi Mumbai police stations, though.
 
 An FIR was registered on December 26, 2017, at the CBD police station against the three accused. They were booked for cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy under Indian Penal Code sections along with Indian Passports Act. Mumbai anti-terrorism squad (ATS) is also probing the case as Banu is a Pakistani national whose original passport bears a Karachi address.
 
 API Puranik of Mumbai crime branch said, “Since 2014, the Panchal   has taken 95 children in the age group of 13 to 17 years, all from Punjab, to France on student visas. But it is not yet known whether they are studying in France or working there. We have written to the French embassy for details.” 
 
 A Navi Mumbai crime branch source said, “The couple posed as parents and took the children to France on student visas and handed them over to their relatives there.”
 
 Aslam Panchal was arrested in 2007 and again in 2012 for forgery for a passport but released on bail. In 2011 and 2012, he obtained a passport under the name of Anand Gurav and then Vivek Agarwal.
 
  Banu obtained a passport as Kavita Gurav. Mumtaz also obtained one as Kavita Agrawal and then three more, stated the FIR. The source said, “The couple was traced after her passport application with her original name reached Kharghar police station while she already had a passport which stated her identity as Kavita Gurav. The couple has a 23-year-old daughter, who is pursing her MBA, and a teenage son.”
 
 
