BENGALURU: Voters headed to their hometowns were in for a harrowing experience at Majestic bus station, Mysuru Road satellite bus terminal and other  , which saw a shortage of government buses on Friday. Since most vehicles have been deployed for poll duty, passengers had to wait for long hours to catch both intra-city and inter-city buses.

 The woes of passengers waiting for buses to destinations like Tumakuru, Mysuru, Hassan and places in North Karnataka (from Majestic) worsened in the evening due to the sudden showers.
 
 Around 5,500 buses of state transport corporations have been earmarked for election duty on May 11 and 12. Of these, 1,600 are BMTC buses and 4,000 belong to KSRTC. They will be used to ferry officials and personnel on poll duty, and transport electronic voting machines (EVMs) and other material to polling booths.
 
 As the day progressed, crowds swelled at bus stands, and what would normally be a 15-minute waiting period stretched to almost an hour. Desperate passengers could be seen rushing towards each bus coming their way and jostling to hop on, stand or get a place to sit. 
 
 Srinivas Rao, a KSRTC official in charge of operations at Peenya, Majestic and satellite bus stands, said the situation was under control. “Passengers have to wait but that is typical of any weekend. The waiting period has increased by 30-35 minutes but everyone is able to find seats. We had already issued instructions saying that in case of traffic congestion around any transit point, buses from other divisions should be diverted for customers’ convenience,” he said.
 
 “We are managing well and making use of buses from Mangaluru and Mandya divisions. At Mandya, only 100 of 700 buses have been reserved for polls and in Mangaluru, around 200 of 600 vehicles have been deployed. We are taking note of areas facing shortage,” he added.
 
 South Western Railway on Friday announced cancellation of stoppage of two trains at Naganahalli station on May 18. Train No. 56281 (Chamarajanagar-KSR Bengaluru) and 56231 (Mysuru-KSR Bengaluru) will not be stopping at Naganahalli due to the ongoing work.
 
 
