Ludhiana: “If the public wants to see a change in the corrupt system of the municipal corporation, then they should vote and support the candidates of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), because the rule of Akali BJP and Congress is not very different,” said AAP MP   — the party’s state president — who was here in the city on Wednesday. Mann criticized the Congress government for using unfair means to register a victory in the MC elections of Jalandhar, Amritsar, and Patiala, and also raised the apprehension that they could do this in Ludhiana as well.

 Mann was here to participate in various election programmes of his party’s candidates. He also participated in roadshows organized by candidates to lure voters. While addressing mediapersons, Mann said people did not find much difference in the working of the Akali and Congress leaders, because they were protesting against the previous government, and they are protesting against the present government as well, but only the venue of the protest has shifted from Bathinda to Patiala.
 
 He said since AAP was in the opposition, they had performed the role strongly, and it was because of their protest that Rana Gurjit resigned. “If Congress had performed its role when it was in the opposition, then even Bikram Majithia, Sikander Singh Maluka, and many other Akali leaders would not have enjoyed cabinet positions for so long. Congress remained silent because they are hand-in-glove with Akali leaders,” said Mann. 
 
 Taking a dig at the ruling party, Mann said: “The Congress government won MC polls in three cities by using force and indulging in booth capturing, and they could do it here as well. The attack on LIP MLA Simarjit Bains is one such example.” He said they would request the state election commission to pay attention towards MC polls in the city, so that none of the untoward incidents take place.
 
 Meanwhile, making an appeal to voters, Mann said their main agenda was to eradicate the corrupt system, and if people wanted to get rid of corrupt practices among MC officials, they should cast votes in favour of AAP and LIP candidates. He said they had framed a manifesto for solving the issues of the city, because MC elections are based on very local issues of water supply, sewerage, roads, etc.
 
 While talking about the incident of the alleged assault on the chief secretary by AAP MLAs in the presence of Arvind Kejriwal in Delhi, Bhagwant Mann did not comment much, but said in Delhi, AAP MLAs were working in tough conditions created by the bureaucracy and the central government, both of whom are harassing AAP leaders. Mann has also demanded a videography of the MC polls after declaring the city as a sensitive zone, and regular monitoring of the polls by CCTV cameras.
 
 
