CHANDIGARH: In a scene reminiscent of an enchanted forest, gorgeous Striped Tiger butterflies are roosting in hundreds in bee hive-like clusters to ward off the intense cold wave conditions. The roosting, swarming and basking butterflies have splashed swathes of bright orange and black on the tawny, drab winter leaves of the  's scrubland jungles. 

 The rare phenomenon of butterfly congregation is centred around a grove of ' ' trees deep in the   and off the nature trail frequented by walkers and birdwatchers. During bright sunshine, butterflies spread their wings and bask singly on 'Papri' leaves, which are full of holes or perforations. They also sit singly on ground weeds like Mexican floss and wild grasses like 'sarkanda'. However, as soon as the sun dips after 3.30 pm, butterflies start to collect in clusters high on tree branches at regular spots. The clusters are so positioned that they are in canopy openings and face westwards towards the dipping sun. During night and foggy mornings, the clusters are totally dormant and hang like lifeless leaves immune to touch or disturbance. 
 
 "In my field research, I have not come across such huge clusters. The clusters are not due to an attraction to host plants but with the requirement of winter roosting. If the leaves of the tree are perforated, it means that caterpillars of the butterfly have not attacked them but it could be due to beetles or cold. When butterfly caterpillars eat leaves of host plants, they nibble at the edges or eat up the entire leaf but do not eat in a manner that leaves it perforated or punched with holes like beetles. The Striped Tiger is a species from the ' ' set of butterflies. Winter is the time when we see maximum number of Striped Tiger butterflies in the region," Professor  , co-author of two books on regional butterflies, and specialist in entomology, lepidoptera and morphotaxonomy at  , Chandigarh, told  .
 
 Author of books and research papers on butterflies, Professor HS Rose, former head of zoology department at  , Patiala, told TOI, "The threshold temperature for butterflies is around 28 degrees centigrade, give or take a few degrees. When temperatures fall below this, then butterflies being cold-blooded start getting inactive. The roosting during cold hours and swarming and basking during bright sunshine are behaviours related to warding off the intense cold conditions prevailing in the region. This butterfly species has black bands, which help it absorb solar heat. They will sit with wings open during warm hours to take in maximum heat. Butterflies live for 10 days or a couple of weeks maximum, depending upon food (nectar) availability."
 
 
