PATNA: In pursuance of its earlier announcement that it will now on itself set the question papers for core subjects of classes IX and XI, the   for the Indian School Certificate Examination ( ) on Thursday issued a list of the subjects for which it will set question papers for the two classes for the session 2018-19.

 These question papers were hitherto set by   for their respective students.
 
 The subjects for which the CISCE will set question papers for Class IX include English Language, English Literature, History and Civics, Geography, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Economics and Commercial Studies. For Class XI, it will set question papers for English Language, English Literature, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, History, Geography, Sociology, Political Science, Psychology, Commerce, Accounts, Economics, Business Studies and Computer Science.
 
 Affiliated city schools have welcomed the CISCE initiative, saying it will bring uniformity. “Now, no school will be in a position to extend undue favour to its students by setting easy questions. Students of all the schools will have to answer same questions and it will eventually benefit students,” said St Paul’s High School principal Anand Prakash.
 
 Students too hailed the move. Anamika Priya, a Class IX student of St Xavier’s High School, said it would prepare students better for the Class X and XII final exams. 
 
 “All the students will now have a level playing field,” added Class IX student of International School Manveer Anand.
 
 The CISCE circular states question papers for the subjects not included in the list will be set by subject teachers concerned of individual schools, as has been the practice.
 
 It is mandatory for the affiliated schools to use the question papers set by the CISCE. Since schools in hilly areas conduct their annual exams in November or December and those in the plains in February or March, the CISCE has decided to prepare two sets of question papers — one each for the hills and the plains.
 
 The answer books will be evaluated and results prepared by individual schools for which the CISCE will fix a deadline.
 
 
