The heartbreaking tale of a swan queen caught between evil enchantment and mysterious love that has captured public imagination since 1876—when Russian composer   gave wings to one of the world’s best loved ballets—will pirouette its way to Mumbai this week with the Royal Russian Ballet’s re-staging of the   at NCPA between March 13 and 25.

 Thanks to the efforts of  , a culture consortium that brought the ballet to Delhi last year, this year the troupe is embarking on amulti-city tour of the country. This perhaps is the first time in decades that the 19th century Russian ballet will be staged in its entirety in the city by a 45-member cast of soloists, principal dancers and corps de ballet from Russia, Ukraine and Europe.
 
 The ballet will illuminate the story of a young   and his love for Odette, cursed to live the life of a swan by day and a human by night. Unaware of the curse, the prince, besotted by Odette, promises to pledge his love to her. However, any hope for a happy ending is lost when the prince is tricked into committing to the seductive Odile, disguised as Odette, by her father, evil sorcerer Von Rothbart. The twin role of Odette and Odile—the radiant white swan and the deceptive black swan—mirroring the classic tale of good versus evil will test the full range of a ballerina’s power in the drifts of her tutu. However, instead of a live orchestra, it will be recorded music that will echo the yearning bars of Tchaikovsky’s score.
 
 The performance carries on its masthead a traditional charm to attract Indian audiences. Hence, the costumes and sets are based on 19th century European trends that move from vivid hues to tragic colours to a dominance of black and white as the tale unfolds. “We maintain the traditional choreography to a considerable extent as we believe that the essence of the original ballet should be pervasive. The show is divided in three breaks instead of four and though the original ballet has a tragic ending, we have specifically chosen to make it a happy one to spread the message of ‘good wins over evil’,” says  , artistic director and producer of the Royal Russian Ballet that was founded in 2008 in Ukraine.
 
