BAGHORA: The   roaming the forests of   since January end gave foresters the slip again on Friday. A team of forest department staff — lying in wait to capture the big cat for more than two hours with a net and tranquillizer guns near a culvert inside the forest of   in West Midnapore’s Gurguripal — lost their nerve when the tiger emerged out of the culvert and roared at them. A source said they dropped the net and guns before leaving the spot.

 Word spread about tiger presence in the forest earlier in the day, when the big cat injured three tribal hunters after they came in its way. The trio reportedly spotted the tiger under the Bhuipol culvert inside the forest. The injured trio, Sudan Soren (35), Panda Murmu (35) and Nandalal Soren (40), were taken to a   and Hospital. . 
  
 
 A team of 12 forest staff led by the additional divisional forest officer reached the spot around 2pm with the net — a specialised one used in the Sunderbans to tackle similar situation — and placed it at one end of the culvert. Wooden planks were also used to block the other end, a source said. The forest staff were divided into three groups — one holding two tranquillizer guns, another lying in wait with the net and the rest beating the wooden planks to drive the big cat out.
 
 “Their trick worked and the big cat emerged out of the culvert around 4pm. But the effort that lasted for more than two hours failed as soon as the big cat roared at them — the staff fled the spot leaving their gears there. The tiger then jumped over the culvert and disappeared into the woods,” said a source.
 
 Friday being the 15th of Chaitra in the Bengali calendar, villagers in Baghora’s Golokchowk observe the day as their annual hunting festival day. Accordingly, tribals from Baghora, Salboni and   gathered outside Golokchowk, split themselves in groups and spread out across the forest. The team of six that went to Bhuipol first heard the tiger roaring. Soon, the big cat emerged out of the culvert and attacked three of the villagers while trying to escape them. They received injuries on their back, heads and faces. The tiger then sneaked inside the canal. The villagers then left the spot and informed foresters. 
 
 Villagers Mongol Mahato and Proloy Mahato, who were assisting foresters in holding the wooden planks, said: “We saw the tiger inside the canal. Had the forest workers not dropped the net, the tiger would have been captured.” Midnapore divisional forest officer Rabindranath Saha was heard telling the villagers: “The way you gathered inside the forest made our job difficult.”
 
 State wildlife advisory board member   said: “With the big cat around, the villagers should stay out of the forest. Otherwise, they will not only invite trouble for them, but also spoil the department’s efforts.”
 
 
