CHANDIGARH: Eyeing to generate more revenue, the UT excise and taxation department is planning to increase the   of   to be put up for auction by up to 15% in the excise policy for the next financial year.

 Licence fee is also likely to be increased marginally, increasing the rates of different brands of liquor. Over the years, UT has been consistently increasing the liquor rates. Despite the rise, the liquor rates in city are less than those prevailing in Punjab and Haryana.
 
 
  
 
 With the existing excise policy lapsing on March 31, the excise department has started working on framing the new policy. The official of the department on Friday held a meeting with UT excise and taxation commissioner Ajit Balaji Joshi to discuss the outline of the policy. Even last year, the department had increased the minimum reserve price from Rs 177 crore to Rs 202.55 crore.
 
 A senior official of the department said efforts will be made to increase the revenue generated through auction of liquor vends. “A marginal hike in the reserve price and other fee is expected in the new excise policy,” said an official.
 
 In the recent years, Chandigarh has been the highest revenue — both tax and non-tax — generating Union Territory without a legislature. Amongst all the five UTs — Chandigarh, Andaman and Nicobar Island, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Lakshadweep — without legislatures, Chandigarh generated highest revenue of around Rs 5,500 crore this financial year. According to sources, the UT administration has committed to the finance ministry to generate more revenue in the next financial year. Revenue generated by administration is not used in city as the administration draws and deposits money in the Consolidated Fund of India.
 
 Due to liquor ban imposed by the   last year, the excise department was forced to close the vends at 22 locations located on national and state highway. In the new policy, the department will put all 22 vends on auction along with existing vends. Satya Pal, president,  , said the total number of liquor vends and their locations should be finalised after due consultation with all the stakeholders. The selection of the site should be left at the discretion of bidders. The liquor traders have urged the department to uniformly fix reserve price, licence fee and quota for outlets in villages and sectors. At present, out of 23 villages, only few have liquor vends. The liquor traders wants the local bodies of villages be motivated and their nod for the opening of liquor vends be sought. The list of the villages which allow opening of liquor vend should be declared before inviting the bids.
 
 For providing a level playing field to everyone, liquor traders in the city are demanding allotment of vends through lottery system. The traders want the excise department to do away with the prevailing system of allotting vends through auction. Last year, the department had prepared a proposal for allotting vends through lottery, but the same was not approved by the higher authorities. The liquor traders, from past many years, had been demanding to replace auction system of allotment of vends with lottery system on the pattern of Rajasthan, Punjab and other states. Satya Pal said the system of lottery would provide a level playing field to everyone. “Not only that, the lottery system will also reduce risk of losses. This will also help in breaking monopoly of few traders,” he added.
 
 Neeraj Chawla, who owns liquor outlets in sectors 34 and 37, said the prevailing system only benefits the administration as it helped them to generate more revenue. “Under the current system, the traders are forced to bid higher to get a vend,” rued Chawla. Supporting his contention, Chawla cited an example of liquor vend in Sector 42 that went for Rs 9.51 crore against the reserve price of Rs 4.44 crore.
 
 
 
