I cannot fathom why he took the extreme step after taking on the disease for 18 years," said Pune-based medical oncologist Dr   on hearing of  's suicide. He had been treating the officer for two years. On Friday, it was not just Roy's family, but also his team of doctors who were left shell-shocked by Roy's final action. Merely four days ago, they had told him he could take a break from chemotherapy and targeted therapy sessions that he had been undergoing since the cancer relapsed two years ago. 

 "On Monday afternoon, I told him his PET scan reports looked positive. I told him the therapies were working and we had a chance to defeat the disease. In fact, this Monday's report was even better than the month-old report that he was showing progress. The cancer was not gone but it was under control. I had told him he would be taken off treatment for a while," Dr Ranade told TOI. "I have not seen a bigger fighter than him," said the doctor.
 
 Roy was struck by the disease in 2000, when he was detected with renal cancer. After a radical nephrectomy, he went on to live a normal life with only one kidney. His colleagues recall how he went on to crack some of the biggest cases despite this. The disease returned in 2016 and spread in his body. 
 
 Roy went to Portugal last year to undergo radiotherapy that he believed would have a good outcome. A therapy plan was prepared at Nashik's HCG Manavta Centre. He received treatment in Pune and Mumbai. "He fought the disease in every possible manner. He even went to the gym on Thursday," said Dr Ranade. "At no point was there a hint of depression in Roy's voice or demeanor. He was perhaps tired of the treatment, but he never uttered that once."
 
 The numbers suggest that Roy's case is not as uncommon. At least 62 people in the country take their lives every day, while not being able to cope with a terminal or chronic ailment. As per 2015 statistics from the   ( ), illness drove over 22,000 people to suicide, the second commonest cause after family problems.
 
 "There is a need in cancer patients to be screened for anxiety and depression. Particularly, when an individual has lived a long period after diagnosis and the disease comes back. It can be immensely traumatic and therefore psychological help should be provided," said Dr Mary Ann Muckaden, head of the department of palliative medicine,  . 
 
 Dr Raj Nagarkar, medical director of Roy's Nashik hospital, said that like all 140 of his patients under the 'difficult cancer cases' branch, Roy too was undergoing counselling.
 
 
