AGRA: For Canadian Prime Minister  , a visit to   on Sunday brought back memories of his father and then Canadian premier  's 1983 visit to India.

 
 "About 35 years ago, when I was 11 years, I came to India on an official trip with my father. I had come down to see Agra from New Delhi to see the Taj Mahal," Trudeau recalled. His father was not able to accompany him then due to his busy schedule. "For me to be present on an official trip while bringing my kids with me to share this is really special and being able to enjoy this as a dad with my kids is really nice," he added. Pierre Trudeau served as the PM of   twice between 1968 and 1984. Along with his wife Sophie Gregoire and three children - Xavier, Ella-Grace and Hadrien - 46-yearold Trudeau reached Agra around 10 am and visited the Mughal-era monument.
 
 "Thank you for the wonderful visit to one of the most beautiful places in the world," Trudeau later wrote in the visitor's book. Other family members also shared their experience. While his wife, Sophie Gregoire, said Taj is "incredible", his youngest son, Hadrien Trudeau, who is just three, scribbled his initial 'H' on the visitor's book. The family also went to the iconic Lady Diana bench and posed for the photographers with the magnificent Taj in the background.
 
 During their hour-long visit, the Trudeaus were accompanied by ASI's superintendent archaeologist Bhuvan Vikram Singh, CISF commandant Brij Bhushan, DM Guarav Dayal, SSP Amit Pathak and a delegation of Canadian officials and mediapersons. Brij Bhushan said that the Canadian leader and his family were accorded special police protection. Nitin Singh, ASI's official guide who accompanied the family, told TOI that the Canadian leader enquired about the legend of Black Taj Mahal. He said Trudeau was very interested to know about the marble carvings. After visiting the monument, the family took a break at the CISF commandant's office and left for the wildlife sanctuary (Elephant Conservation and Care Centre) in Farah, Mathura.
 
