It was pretty magical to watch Elon Musk’s space shuttle soar out of Earth’s orbit, carrying with it, his electric car! The four-wheeler — after detaching itself from the shuttle — is floating around earth, and will eventually orbit Mars! There was even a dummy astronaut in the car, named ‘Starman’ (David Bowie, anyone?), and the dashboard said: “Don’t Panic”, straight out of Douglas Adams’ sci-fi classic The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy. The best part? The astronaut has a hand-written note just in case it’s discovered by aliens! It says: “Made on Earth by humans”. 

 
 
 When asked about his phenomenal adventure, Musk said: “It’s kind of silly and fun, but I think that silly and fun things are important.” The message resonates hard in an age where everything is an uproar, and all we want to hear is ourselves – the loudest, the clearest. Whether it’s laughter in Parliament, furore over a movie’s message, a fashion designer’s comment on knowing (or not knowing) how to tie a saree... our first urge is to react. And mostly, it’s an overreaction. We’re a prickly lot and we know not how to laugh or let go, or, simply have the heart to be silly...
 British spy novelist Len Deighton (SS-GB, The Ipcress File) had once said, “Do you ever make silly mistakes? It is one of my very few creative activities.” Behavioural scientist and life coach Steve Maraboli says, “Never underestimate the healing power of silliness and absurdity.” 
 Why? To begin with, it’s great for your mental health. A 2011 study in Time said that not taking ourselves too seriously benefits our mental faculties. The study’s author, Ursula Beermann, from the University of Innsbruck, says that people who don’t take themselves too seriously are also far better prepared to “acknowledge that you are not the centre of the universe”. Beermann’s study essentially proved that when you laugh at yourself, you radiate positivity.
 Pop icon Madonna had once said, “I laugh at myself. I don’t take myself completely seriously. I think that’s a quality that people have to hold on to ... you have to laugh, especially at yourself.”
 
 
 
  
 Being able to laugh at oneself is a sign of resilience and mental toughness too, feels psychiatrist Dr Sanjay Chugh. We often make the mistake of believing serious people are more resilient. But actually it’s the people with the ability to look at the funny side who come out on top in crises.
 Dr Chugh says, “The problem is that today, everyone is trying to be perfect and excel at everything. Not knowing something is not an option. If we cannot forgive others for this, how can we forgive ourselves and thus, laugh at it?”
 
 
 
 
 Life is an inherently anxious affair because society forces certain rules on all of us which we abide by on a daily basis. Festivals like  , the Rio Carnival, La Tomatina, Spain, or Oktoberfest, Munich, were all possibly people’s way of rebelling, letting go or just an excuse to be silly, without being questioned. In a world fraught with tension, however, we need to practise silliness on a daily basis. 
 Jeremy E Sherman PhD, a biophilosopher and social science researcher tells us how he practises “don’t mindfulness” — an anti-thesis to “mindfulness” (to be aware of what you are doing every second) — to keep away from all the seriousness in life. He believes it’s important not to pay oneself so much attention in an age where our ego is exceedingly inflated from a young age. He says, “The core of ‘don’t mindfulness’ would be identifying with oneself as a ‘learner’, not the ‘learned’. That way you are not humiliated when proven wrong. You can stand corrected, confident in yourself because you realise you are the learner in this life.” 
 Sherman says self-effacing humour, which we can float out usually with nervous laughter at first — with practice — eventually becomes easy. “You get to the point where you can roll out disappointing things about yourself, and laugh about it,” he says.
 As the pichkaris come out, along with our spring/summer wear, and we shed our woollens, almost like shedding our old skin to acquire a new one, it may be a good time to just be silly.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
