NEW DELHI: Seeking to cut delays in resolving inter-state river water disputes through a robust mechanism, the Centre is looking to get its proposed law on having a single tribunal with fixed time-line for dispute redressal passed during the post-recess budget session of the   in March-April.

 The existing law, Inter-State River Water Disputes Act, 1956, provides for multiple tribunals without any time-frame to resolve disputes. The states, under this law, may even approach the   for redressal of their grievances.
 
 As a result, five existing tribunals have been on the job for years with the one on Cauvery taking 27 years to give its award while the other one on Ravi-Beas (Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan) still pending even after 31 years.
 
 Other tribunals - Krishna (Maharashtra, Karnataka and AP); Vansadhara (Odisha and Andhra Pradesh) and   (Goa, Karnataka and Maharashtra) - too have been on the job for years for multiple reasons.
 
 The drawbacks (absence of time-line and multiplicity of adjudicating authorities) had prompted the Centre to introduce the Inter-State River Water Disputes (Amendment) Bill, 2017 in the Lok Sabha in March last year. It was then sent to a parliamentary standing committee which submitted its report in August with key suggestions on timeline, appointment of chairperson and making provisions of a fool-proof data management and information system among others.
 
 Sources in the Union water resources ministry said that the government was ready to accept those key suggestions of the parliamentary panel and the bill would again come up in the Lower House next month after Cabinet approval.
 
 In order to resolve water disputes amicably by negotiations, the bill seeks to introduce a mechanism through disputes resolution committees (DRC). It empowers the central government to set up   consisting of experts from relevant fields. The disputes will be referred to the tribunals only if the committee fails to resolve it within a maximum time limit of 18 months.
 
 Under the proposed law, there will be a single tribunal with multiple Benches, unlike the present law which provides for multiple tribunals. The tribunal under the proposed law will have to give its award within maximum three years - meaning disputes cannot exceed a time bar of four-and-a-half years. 
 
 The decision of the Bench of the tribunal will be final and binding on the states concerned and it will have the same force as an order or decree of the Supreme Court.
 
 Under the proposed law, there will be a single standing tribunal with multiple Benches, unlike the present law which provides for separate tribunal for each inter-state river water dispute.
 
 The proposed single Tribunal will consist of chairperson, vice-chairperson and maximum 6 members. The chairperson will assign dispute to a Bench. The parliamentary panel suggested that the chairperson should be selected by a collegium of four members (PM or his\her nominee; CJI or his\her nominee; leader of opposition and Union water resources minister).
 
 Officials in the water resources ministry said the government was ready to accept this suggestion of the panel. 
 
 Besides, there is a provision of age-limit for the chairperson who will hold office for a period of five years or till he\she attains the age of 70 years, whichever is earlier. The existing law does not have any upper age-limit of chairperson and members. This is also considered as a major drawback of the present law.
 
 Officials hinted that there had, however, been some differences over certain provisions including one on absence of appeal provision before the Supreme Court. States including Kerala, Odisha and Punjab (all three ruled by non-NDA parties) in their comments to the standing committee have sought the appeal provision. Their stand may be an obstacle for the government in the   where the   is still far from the majority mark.
 
 
