MYSURU: Chief minister   on Thursday played the emotional card with the electorate of Chamundeshwari segment by saying they hold the key to his second term in office.

 Asserting that the   would come back to power, he said if elected, he’ll become the CM again. “Bless me like you blessed me five times earlier so that I can become the CM,” he said during a roadshow in the segment where Kurubas, Nayakas and Vokkaligas are in a majority.
 
 During the six-hour journey into the hinterland of Mysuru taluk, he said he’s not backing out of his plan to switch to Chamundeshwari from neighbouring Varuna assembly segment which he represents. At Udbur, where Dalits are in a majority, he said despite his age, he’s fit to take on his opponents. “Give me strength to take on my opponents and allow me to serve you before I retire from electoral politics,” he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah started his campaign from Ramanahalli on the outskirts of the city along with his son Yathindra. As he checked in at 1.40pm, villagers, mainly Nayakas, extended him a warm welcome. He offered floral tributes to Veera Makadari and Maharshi Valmiki and offered prayers at the temple. When he was asked for financial assistance to renovate it, he said said he’d take care of it after the elections.
 
 While villagers raised slogans like ‘Future CM’ and ‘Mysuru Tiger’, he was enthused by the large number of Muslims and Nayakas greeting him at Bharat Nagar, about 2kms from Ramanahalli. At Kalasiddanahundi, he reminded people that this would be his last election. “I’ve walked the talk and delivered,” he said. The septuagenarian leader regretted he couldn’t meet them earlier. 
 
 Jibe at Amit
 
 Siddaramaiah said BJP chief Amit Shah is afraid of him and that’s pushing him to come to areas whereever he had toured. But he said Shah is free to campaign in the state, which, he claimed, wouldn’t help the BJP. He asked Shah to clarify whether he’s a Hindu or a Jain as the BJP leader had questioned his stand on Hindus.
 
 Code of conduct
 
 Siddaramaiah is facing a charge of violating the model code of conduct as he offered money to women who performed arati when he visited Rammanahalli. While he gave Rs 2,000 to one group, he gave Rs 500 to the other. Over 20 vehicles followed his entourage during his roadshow. Deputy commissioner B Sivakumar, the district election officer, said: “We got a complaint and are checking it. But no complaint has been registered.” 
 
 
