BENGALURU: It’s close to a decade since the first plan to set up a waste-to-energy (WtE) plant was conceptualized in Bengaluru. Ever since, five to six similar proposals to utilize Bengaluru’s garbage were made. But all of them have been languishing with the   (BBMP). 

 However, in the election year, the urban development department (UDD) is planning to set up waste-to-energy plants to clear growing mounds of waste in tier-II cities such as Mysuru and Hubballi-Dharwad.
 
 According to UDD officials, while the Hubballi-Dharwad proposal is still at a nascent stage, the plan to have a regional WtE plant in Mysuru is all set to be implemented. A 486-tonne plant has been proposed on a 7-acre land on the outskirts of Mysuru.
 
 “Of the 486 tonnes of garbage generated in Mysuru district daily, 402 tonnes come from Mysuru city alone. The detailed project report (DPR) is in its final stages and tenders will be invited shortly,” said a UDD official. As per the current proposal, the government will provide the land and also supply garbage to the plant, with a private player using the same to generate energy and connect to the grid.
 
 However, many within the department are sceptical about whether the project, which was a “dud” in Bengaluru, will take off in Mysuru. “The proposal is being pushed by a   from Mysuru district, who is eyeing the project as a solution to rid the heritage city of garbage, and use the same as a poll plank for the CM and the party,” said another official. But with the energy department looking at options such as solar power plants at the taluk level, WtE plants outside Bengaluru may not get a favourable pricing for every unit of power generated. 
 
 While confirming that a WtE plant for Mysuru region is being seriously considered, additional chief secretary ( ) Mahendra Jain admitted that the concept hasn’t generated enough interest in Bengaluru, thereby undermining such proposals anywhere in state. “But we are seriously looking at the WtE concept as a futuristic model, considering there are very few options available to dispose of waste scientifically,” he added.
 
 
