Chennai: After Finance Minister Arun Jaitley announced in the Union Budget last week that cryptocurrencies were going to be considered “not legal”, Surendra Reddy, owner of Suri Andhra Mess in Taramani, isn’t quite sure what he is going to do with the bitcoin currency he has left with him.  Since last October, he has been running a campaign allowing people to buy biriyani from his restaurant using bitcoins. “The campaign was a huge success and I got quite a bit in bitcoins. Since my restaurant is in the IT centre of the city, I had a lot of software professionals wanting to transact in bitcoins. I traded in my bitcoin currency in January for around Rs 75,000 in cash. But since that month there has been a big drop in the number of people using bitcoins,” says Reddy, who adds that he no longer wants to trade in it. The proprietors of several establishments across the country have already decided to stop transacting in it. In Bengaluru, Suryawanshi restaurant, which was accepting bitcoins — the reason, according to the owner Kailash Suryawanshi, being that his son was rather fascinated by it — stopped within an hour after the FM’s announcement, or rather denouncement, of the virtual currency. “The government does not consider crypto-currencies legal tender or coin and will take all measures to eliminate use of these cryptoassets in financing illegitimate activities or as part of the payment system,” the finance minister said in his budget speech last week.  A cryptocurrency by definition is a digital asset designed to work as a medium of exchange that uses cryptography to secure its transactions, to control the creation of additional units, and to verify the transfer of assets. Bitcoin is the first decentralized digital currency. Reports are that one in every 10 bitcoin transactions in the world takes place in India. The current rupee value of one bitcoin is approximately Rs 5.3 lakh. The value keeps fluctuating, but has seen a consistent drop since the latter half of 2017 (when it was floating at around Rs 14 lakh for 1 bitcoin). Sathvik Vishwanath, founder of bitcoin wallet Unocoin, one of the country’s more popular exchanges, says his customer service team has been flooded with queries on the future of cryptocurrencies. “It’s just been a few days since the announcement, so we have to wait and see what is going to happen. But the government has been saying it does not consider cryptocurrency as legal tender for a while now. So the FM’s announcement is nothing new,” says Vishwanath, who adds that at Unocoin the plans regarding cryptocurrency remain unchanged. “We are planning to add more currencies like Ethereum, Ripple, and so on,” he says. Meanwhile, Hyderabad-based Chanukya Saicharan, a program analyst and part-time bitcoin analyst, has decided to hold on to his virtual currency for a little while longer. “I’ve cashed out my bitcoins and am holding on to my ripples at the moment. I’ve decided to wait it out. It feels unclear at the moment. If the value keeps dipping, I will transfer it to my friends abroad and then stop trading,” he says.