PUNE: Acutely underweight and on a   since her birth, Pranali (2) can smile now.

 The child suffered from ‘congenital zygomatico mandibular syngnathia’, an extremely rare congenital condition resulting in the complete fusion of the left portion of her upper and lower jaw bones. Due to the condition, Pranali could not open her mouth and it hindered growth of her face’s left side.
  
  
 
 Innumerable visits to doctors and hospitals also didn’t help either as the child was put on a waiting list owing to her low weight. It was only last year that one of the relatives of her parents suggested approaching the Armed Forces Medical College ( ).
 
 Acting on the suggestion, the parents visited the AFMC where a team of surgeons headed by Brigadier SK Roy Chowdhury inspected her.
 
 In August last year, a team of doctors from the AFMC successfully performed a correction surgery on Paranli, who was just 18-month-old then and weighed 3-4kg. Brigadier Roy Chowdhury told TOI on Tuesday, “We formulated a new method called Distraction Osteogenesis (controlled method of creating new bone) to correct the growth deficit of the face and provide functional enhancement by improving the mouth opening. In the first phase, the baby’s jaw was lengthened by using a buried paediatric mandibular distraction device. Three months later, the distraction device was removed and the ankylotic fusion mass between the upper and lower facial bones of zygoma (cheekbone), maxilla (upper jaw) and mandible (lower jaw) was exercised.”
 
 He said the surgery had to be performed under general anaesthesia, considering the age and nutritional status of the child and difficulty in administering anaesthesia. “Severe facial asymmetry and lack of external ear on the affected side made it difficult to use any surgical landmarks to approach the fused jaws,” the Brigadier said, adding that the baby has been going through a follow-up period for the last six months and has shown steady improvement. 
 
 Air Marshal C K Ranjan, the AFMC commandant, said, “The department of dental sciences has acquired state-of-the-art equipment and capabilities to deliver high-quality basic dental and high end maxillofacial surgical care, including advanced specialist treatment in other specialities of oral health care to their patients.”
 
 Pranali’s mother, Sheetal Panchal, seemed quite elated with the improvement in her daughter’s condition. She said, “Pranali now eats normally and her weight too has increased by 10kg.” The Panchal family hails from Nanded district and stays near Dange Chowk in Chinchwad. 
 
 
