AGRA: Association of Progressive Schools of Agra (APSA) has threatened not to admit any student hailing from economically backward families under the Right to Education Act because government has failed to pay them for the past two years. Schools have claimed that they will not allow students until they receive the pending amount.
 
  According to official sources, around 2,600 students were admitted to good private schools under   in Agra district last year.
  
  This year, the RTE website shows that only those schools charging less than Rs 300 fee are listed in it. However, the RTE Act mandates all private schools to keep aside 25% of seats at the primary level for admission to children from weaker sections of society. Parents wanting to admit their children can apply online for admission.
  
  President of APSA Sanjay   said, “We have not been reimbursed for the past two years and due to this, we will not allow admissions under RTE this year. We have asked for the remaining fund, but have not got any response in this regard.”
  
  He said his school had admitted around 15-20 students in the first year and in the last year, there were the same number of the students. As a result, the government owes around Rs 1.20 lakh as tuition fees to the school, Tomar added.
  
  Another member of APSA, CB Jadli of Baluni Public School, said 10-12 students were admitted under RTE last year but were yet to receive funds.
  
  A school principal who did not wish to be named said the schools should not have stopped this initiative as it would affect the studies of the students concerned. “It is very sad and will affect the studies of children from BPL families,” he added.
  
  A parent, Ram  , said there are many BPL families in the city who wish to get their children admitted to good schools under RTE. “I wanted to apply for admissions for both my son and daughter. Now, I am in confused about what to do?” he added.
  
   , RTE activist, said “It is sad that private schools association has decided to boycott RTE admissions this year. They should not have used non-payment as a tool for blackmailing to reject RTE admissions. It will only hurt poor children.”
