NEW DELHI: While dust storm and rain across the capital affected several flights at   on  , passengers of one particular   flight from Delhi to Guwahati had a nightmare as their flight got delayed for over 5 hours.

 The delay, first due to weather conditions and later due to a change in  , led to passengers reportedly exiting the flight and protesting on the taxiway, sources confirmed.
 
 The incident took place on Wednesday evening when IndiGo’s 6E-694 reportedly arrived late at  . The delay was attributed to adverse weather conditions, which saw over 50 delays and 21 diversions during the same period.
 
 The Guwahati-bound passengers said that after the flight landed, they were allowed to board but no communication was made to them and the delay was reportedly caused as no pilot was available.
 
 An airport source confirmed that the flight carrying 177 passengers saw several agitated passengers get off and protest on the taxiway — a move that could have proved to be dangerous. Airline officials, however, said the delay was primarily due to poor weather conditions and later on due to a shift change as the pilots had gone out of duty time.
 
 “Delhi airport was affected by heavy thunderstorms from 1700 hours onwards till 2300 hours. Due to the severe weather conditions, the incoming aircraft scheduled for the flight to Guwahati was delayed. IndiGo started the boarding at 2015 hours for flight 6E 694. However, thunderstorms intensified and the aircraft could not take off and had to wait for a respective departure slot,” said IndiGo in a statement on Thursday.
 
 “After the boarding and the prolonged waiting due to weather conditions, the pilots went out of flight duty time. Therefore, a new crew was arranged, thereby further delaying the flight. It is common practice that passengers are kept on board to make use of any departure slot that becomes available,” IndiGo added. 
 
 Sources said the flight finally departed around 11.30pm and landed at Guwahati at 1.45am.
 
 
