BENGALURU: Karnataka chief minister Siddaramaiah’s advocacy of federal autonomy against the BJP brand of nationalism is gathering steam in South India, with neighbouring states joining hands to question the Centre’s proposed resource-sharing formula, being seen as favourable to northern states at the cost of their southern counterparts.

 Taking a cue from the Karnataka CM’s opposition to the terms of reference of the 15th Finance Commission over devolution of taxes, Kerala finance minister T M Thomas Issac has called for a meeting of finance ministers from southern states on April 10 in Kochi, to take a unified stand on the issue.
 
  
 “Siddaramaiah has raised a valid issue and it is time for progressive southern states to come together to assert our rights,” Telangana finance minister Etala Rajender said, adding that he will talk to his CM K Chandrashekhar Rao, before attending the Kochi meeting.
 
 Siddaramaiah’s move to take the lead comes at a time when the Congress is looking at all means to gain an edge in the run-up to the May 12 assembly elections.
 
 “Siddaramaiah is the right person to counter PM Narendra Modi in the present political context. We are sure his initiative against the Centre’s lopsided resource sharing formula will get strong support from the southern states,” said V Hanumantha Rao, AICC secretary, who was in charge of Congress affairs in Karnataka during the 2013 assembly polls.
 
 Soon after   assumed office in 2013, Rao and other backward class leaders had felicitated him in Hyderabad and projected him as a prominent OBC leader of South India.
 
 “OBC votes in South India account for not less than 50% and we wanted to consolidate them under Siddaramaiah’s leadership, but somehow efforts did not gain traction then. Now, the chief minister’s initiative to unite southern states comes at the right time, with the   declared and a year to go for general elections,” said Rao.
 
 Justifying his stand to uphold regionalism against the BJP’s nationalism, Siddaramaiah had earlier this month sought to highlight injustice meted out by the Centre to the states south of the Vindhyas. Pitching the progressive southern states against the backward Hindi-speaking northern states, he argued that “for every rupee that Karnataka contributes to the Central purse, it gets only Rs 0.47. But, for every rupee Uttar Pradesh contributes, it gets back Rs 1.79”.
 
 The Centre’s policy of crosssubsidizing what was then called BIMARU states, was raised by Andhra Pradesh chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu back in 2003. But Siddaramaiah’s rhetoric assumes a stronger political hue, with the BJP at the Centre professing ‘One Nation, One Culture’.
 
 While the devolution of funds from the central pool would be based on the population of the respective states, the Centre has reportedly asked the 15th Finance Commission to consider the 2011 Census data.
 
 Tagging the CMs of Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra and Puducherry, Siddaramaiah tweeted on March 23, “Centre asks 15th FC to use 2011 Census data instead of 1971 Census used so far to determine devolution of taxes. This will further affect the interests of the south: we need to resist.”
 
 “Doing away with the 1971 population criterion for tax devolution will result in a problem. The states which have achieved demographic and health indicators and controlled population would substantially lose out,” Kerala finance minister Issac said.
 
 Siddaramaiah’s crusade in favour of the southern states, political observers expect, could fetch the Congress votes of Telugu, Tamil and Malayalam speaking Bengalureans, who account for close to 30% of the city’s population.
 
 “It may be a smart move to attract non-Kannada voters from southern states settled in Bengaluru. Siddaramaiah has already successfully conveyed his anti-Hindi stance by managing to get Hindi signboards off Metro stations,” said N K Mohanram, a political observer.
 
 
 
