Ghaziabad:   police in Ghaziabad do not have speed radars and cannot fine any car for breaking speed limits, a loophole that has them worried with two speeding-related accidents already on the Hindon  . Not a single fine has been issued to any motorist for traffic violations on the elevated road. 

 The recently opened 10km road from UP Gate to Raj Nagar Extension has a speed limit of 80kmph but cars zoom across the signal-free stretch at much higher speeds. Late on Thursday, an   crashed into a   from behind on the elevated road, leaving the   of the car with serious injuries.
 
 Bharat Lal, whose car is registered with taxi aggregator Uber, was on his way home to Bhowpura after wrapping the up day’s work. He had taken elevated road from the Vasundhara side and had hardly driven a kilometre when the   happened. An unconscious Lal was rushed to a private hospital in Vaishali where his condition remains critical.
 
 On April 18, a bus with 40 people on board had crashed into the height barrier at the entry to the elevated road at UP Gate, sending a 17-year old boy crashing through its windscreen and leaving him with serious injuries.
 
 Long before the elevated road was inaugurated on March 30,   had anticipated speeding would be a problem. Several plans were made to check speeding but they have not been implemented yet. “The Hindon Elevated Road has been designed to withstand vehicular speed up to 100kmph but we made a decision to allow vehicles a maximum speed of 80kmph and stopped all heavy vehicles from entering it,” said a GDA official.
 
 The official said the process to install CCTV cameras was under way. “Initially, we had planned to install CCTV cameras every 200 metres all along the elevated road along with automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) to keep a check on speeding vehicles, but now it is has been decided only 10 such cameras will be installed,” said the official.
 
 Cameras will also be installed near the Kanawani and Vasundhara ramps, which will send real time data to monitoring stations at either end of the road. The plan is to fine motorists before they exit the road. The official did not, however, spell out a deadline for the installation of cameras.
 
 Traffic inspector Ramesh Tiwari said, “We used to have three speed radars but as of now, all of them are non-functional. So we have no equipment to measure speeding, not only on the elevated road but all other parts of Ghaziabad. We have not issued any challan for traffic-rule violations on the elevated road.”
 
 
