MADURAI: Madurai may have a relatively slender forest cover in the state, but that doesn’t seem to have deterred a large species of birds from coming and nesting there, thanks to a vibrant band of birdwatchers like N Raveendran who strives hard to make the city alive with the lovely chirps of the feathered friends.

 An engineer-turned nature enthusiast of Madurai, Raveendran is an active member of the birdwatcher gang in Madurai. He is a self-taught shutterbug who does not only take pictures of the birds but keeps a complete record of them for public awareness. “I want to teach the people how important are birds to this ecosystem,” he says.
 
 The 52-year-old engineer uses both school and college students to spread the word. “They are the next generation. They would determine the way the nature and ecosystem is preserved in the future,” he says. “My target is to achieve 10, 000 students a year and I have been achieving the target for the past four years now. Equally important is to reach out to the teachers, who in turn can spread the message to a large number of youngsters,” Raveendran, who now resides in  , says.
 
 The city has 256 species of birds. And as their number keeps swelling he sought support from the government to preserve them properly. “I want the government to do something about it. It can create a bigger impact.”
 
 A keen birdwatcher, Raveendran formed ‘Madurai Nature Club’ in 2014, a group of like-minded people who will work for the betterment of the birds. It all happened when he asked his school-going nieces to obtain the details of bird species in the state in 2010. “The students visited Madurai enthusiastically as part of the survey. I thought if we can make club for birdwatchers, this will a lot good to the birds,” he says.
 
 Raveendran took active part in the club’s activities then, visiting various places searching for new bird species across the city. “I found Madurai has 256 species as against the 170 species recorded in the survey in 1970. When his engineering job and bird-watching clashed heads,   forced to quit the job in 2015, which put the familial responsibility on wife  , a lecturer in a private college.
 
 “I have no remorse in my action. I can now concentrate more on my bird watching activities,” he says. In his journey to spot birds, Ravindran has found rare species like Egyptian vulture, white stork, blue throat, Siberian stonechat, common stonechat, red breasted flycatcher, broad-tailed grassbird, laggar falcon and Lesser kestrel.
 
 “I was the first to record Himalayan griffon in Tamil Nadu for the first time. I spotted in the northern part of The Nilgiris in 2016. It took a month to consult with experts around the country to confirm it,” Raveendran says. He says that Samanatham, Avaniyapuram and Alagar hills and its surroundings attract the bird watchers in Madurai more than any others.
 
 
