Guntur: A prestigious mud-crab hatchery is going to be set up soon near Bapatla in Guntur district. This project is a joint venture between the state and Central government and is expected to provide massive boost in the dipping morale of the aqua farmers in Andhra. 

 Centre had promised setting up the hatchery three years ago to boost the aqua farming but due to various land disputes, the state government had been unable to execute the plan. 
 
 But eventually, the state government was able to identify a suitable and trouble-free land near Bapatla which was conducive to aqua farming.
 
 This international standard hatchery is expected to boost the production of marine products that have been on a high demand in the global market and help the aqua farmers to switch to new breeds. 
 
 Despite there been a heavy demand for the mud-crabs in the international market, the production of the same didn’t prosper in AP due to the non-availability of the seed and insufficient research on the same. 
 
 This saw local aqua farmers abstaining themselves from taking up crab culture due to fear of investing huge money on virus-infected seeds which they would have to get from private sources. 
 
 But with now the hatchery being set up by the state and the Central government, issues pertaining to the cab culture will be put to rest. Three years ago, after receiving the directive from Central government, the state government asked the Guntur district administration to identify a controversy-free land. 
 
 Also, according to the guidelines from Marine Products Exports and Development Authority (MPEDA), the required land was needed to close to the cost line for the obvious reasons.
 
 Guntur administration initially zeroed-in on about 9 acres of land near Suryalanka village in Baptla and asked the fisheries department to take over the land. However, the local village panchayath objected to the decision of the revenue department saying that the land was required for anchoring of boats by the local fishermen.
 
 After dilly-dallying for nearly three years, the district administration recently found controversy free land in the Pandurangapuram near Adivi village in Baptla Mandal. The local tehsildar Tirumalasetti Vallaiah handed over the land documents to the fisheries department assistant director Usha Kiran and asked her to take possession of the land. Now that all the hurdles have been surpassed by the government and the fisheries department, the construction work is soon to begin. According to the plan, the prestigious international standard crab hatchery will be set up in about 28 acres of land. 
 
 
