GREATER NOIDA: To curb increasing road accidents on  , UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has asked concessionaire Jaypee Infratech to install   along the entire 165 km stretch from Greater Noida to Agra. 

 The CM gave the directions to Jaypee Infratech during a meeting of the central-empowered committee of the Supreme Court in Lucknow on Tuesday, officials said.
 
 According to officials, the LED lights will be installed every 30 metres on the central verge of the expressway so that both carriageways can reap the benefit. “The installation will be done in three phases. The first phase will be completed up to Jewar toll plaza within the next three months. In the second phase, lights will be installed up to Mathura and in the last phase up to Agra,” an official said.
 
 Apart from installation of LED lights, the concessionaire has also been asked to instal metal beam crash barriers along the central verge of the expressway. “Ideal for protection against hard impact, these barriers are particularly effective road safety systems serving to protect vehicles and its occupants in the case of a mishap. These will also serve as a good visual guide for drivers, especially after sunset. Work for installation of the barriers will also be carried out in three phases,” the official said.
 
 Another important safety feature, which will be available to the expressway users, will be an additional feature to the already functional mobile app — Highway Saathi. The app already alerts commuters about traffic snarls, accidents and public amenities besides sending SOS alerts in case of an emergency reducing response time for rescue. “Soon, it will support an additional feature wherein the road user will be alerted by an alarm or pop-up or message if the driver is speeding or driving beyond the permissible speed limit,” he said. The expressway has witnessed 4,848 accidents since being thrown open to traffic in August 2012. In some cases, entire families have been wiped out. 
 
 “The CM’s directions for additional safety measures along the expressway come as an attempt to reduce accidents,” the official said.
 
 Just over a week ago, the expressway witnessed two major accidents, one of which claimed the lives of three AIIMS doctors. At the time, Yamuna authority CEO Arun Vir Singh also directed the concessionaire to act on six major counts to enhance safety for road users along the high-speed corridor.
 
 
