Mirror (May 14) had earlier reported that   is reviving his home banner after seven years with a Hindi remake of the 2010 Telugu family-drama 'Prasthaanam' and will feature in the film alongside   as his son and Amyra Dastur as Ali’s love interest. We have now learnt that the makers have roped in   to play Sanjay’s wife in the film, which will go on the floors on his actress-mother Nargis Dutt’s 89th birth anniversary on June 1, in Lucknow.

 Sanjay and Manisha had first collaborated in Feroz Khan’s 1992 action film 'Yalgaar', and followed it up with 'Sanam', 'Kartoos', 'Khauff' and 'Baaghi'. They were last seen together onscreen in Afzal Khan’s 2008 romance 'Mehbooba'. Sanjay had also made a special appearance as himself in Manisha and Govinda-starrer 1998 film 'Achanak'. “Manisha and Sanjay have known each other for many years and are excited to work together again. Manisha has really liked the script and immediately agreed to come on board,” informs a source close to the development.
 
  
  
 Confirming the news, director Deva Katta, who has directed the original as well, says, “Each character in Prasthaanam has a very strong role to play for which we needed actors with great calibre. When the team came up with the idea of casting Manisha for the part of Sanjay’s onscreen wife, it felt like the perfect match. I am looking forward to direct them, especially since they are coming back together after 10 years.”
 
 Dutt, who forayed into film production as production-presenter on close friend Sanjay Gupta’s 2006 action-thriller 'Zinda', has also served as associate producer on Apoorva Lakhia’s 'Shootout at Lokhandwala' (2007), which was based on a real life gun battle between gangsters and the Mumbai police, and on 'Dus Kahaniyaan', an anthology of 10 shorts, in the same year. He also produced the David Dhawan-directed 'Rascals' in 2011. Meanwhile, Manisha made her Hindi film comeback in Imtiaz Ali’s assistant Sunaina Bhatnagar’s directorial debut, 'Dear Maya', last year, and has a few more interesting projects lined up.
 
 The original 'Prasthaanam' was a commercial and critical success, winning three Filmfare awards down South and a standing ovation in the Indian Panorama section at the International Film Festival of Goa.
 
