LUCKNOW: Former CM and   president   on Monday sought two years time from the state government to vacate his government accommodation on 4, Vikramaditya Marg, and move into another residence. 

 The state government had served a notice to   and five other former UP CMs on May 17, asking them to vacate their government bungalows within 15 days following a Supreme Court order, 
 
 In the letter sent to UP estate department, Akhilesh said he did not have an alternate and suitable residential premises in Lucknow to stay with his security. "Being an ex-CM, the administration has also provided me the Z-plus security cover (including NSG commandos) for which I need adequate space also. Being the current National President of Samajwadi Party, I have visitors...," Akhilesh said in the letter sent to UP estate officer Yogesh Shukla.
 
 Shukla said the state government was bound to follow the apex court order that annulled the state law granting life term allotment of government accommodation to former CMs. "The notice was served to all six former CMs as per the SC order and we are just following the process," he told TOI. He said the state government would take legal advice on Akhilesh's letter before responding to it.
 
 Last week, SP patriarch   had met CM   to discuss the impact of the May 7 SC order. Then too, a letter, purportedly saying that the bungalows allotted to Mulayam and his son Akhilesh may be allotted to leaders of opposition in UP   and Vidhan Parishad, had gone viral. Interestingly, both the LOPs - Ram Govind Chaudhary (Vidhan Sabha) and Ahmad Hasan (Vidhan Parishad) - are from the SP.
 
 Meanwhile, UP deputy chief minister   told TOI that his government would strictly obey the Supreme Court order. "Mayawatiji has completed a long journey in Kanshi Ram's name. The court and government would have understood if she had the trust board from before, not as an after thought. She can't win over Dalits like this. As far as Akhilesh's request is concerned, the department can only take a view after discussing legal options," said Maurya. 
 
 
