CHANDIGARH: Crime branch police have arrested a person on Friday who allegedly sold a stolen car in February to a   via a website. 

 The scrap dealer,  , who had been arrested earlier in the case, said he was not at fault as he had simply bought the car from its owner not knowing whether it was a stolen one. TOI highlighted the issue on February 19 addition. SP Ravi kumar had marked an inquiry to DSP crime in this case. 
 
 The arrested person has been identified as Gurmeet Singh, a resident of Manimajra. Police produced   before the local court and sent him to 14-day judicial custody on Saturday. 
 
 Earlier the crime branch police had arrested Dana Ram, of Kishangarh, in the case for selling the ‘stolen’ car to another scrap dealer in Sector 45. Dana Ram pleaded before the crime branch that he had bought the Swift car from Gurmeet after noticing the advertisement on OLX. However, he was arrested on February 6 and sent to jail. 
 
 After spending 28 days in jail, Dana Ram was released on bail. Meanwhile, Dana Ram’s brother SujjanSingh filed a complaint at SSP public window to conduct a fair probe into the matter and later they met SP Ravi Kumar who marked an enquiry to DSP (crime) Harjit Kaur and submitted a report.
 
 Sujjan Singh said his brother had spent 28 days behind the bars without any reason. He complained that their reputation had been put at stake and his brother’s arrest could have been avoided had there been a fair probe into the matter. 
 
 Sujjan Singh further added , “Dana Rama contacted Gurmeet Singh, the owner, after noticing the advertisement of the said car on OLX. He purchased the Maruti Swift at a cost of Rs 46,000 on October 7, 2017.” 
 
 Dana Ram had signed a stamp paper in the presence of two witnesses. Later, Dana Ram sold the car to Naresh Kumar for Rs 57,000 in scap and completed all the formalities,   said. 
 
 After Naresh was approached by police for inquiry about the car, he contacted Dana Ram, who in turn asked him to return the car. Dana Ram then asked Gurmeet Singh about the fake number plate on the car, regarding which police had started an investigation. 
 
 Inspector   of crime branch summoned Dana Ram to the crime branch thrice before arresting him. Police also questioned Gurmeet Singh but he refused to identify Dana Ram or selling him any Maruti Swift car. 
 
 
