CHENNAI: Yellowed shirts hung out to dry -- this was the first giveaway when Chennai’s rain man Sekhar Raghavan walked into a residential complex in   that was in the grip of a water crisis in the summer of 2008.

 Ten of the 17 borewells drilled up to a depth of 150 feet in this three-acre plot that housed 384 families had run dry. Residents were no strangers to the situation. It had been just six years since the city faced one of its worst droughts after the monsoon failed. But this time there was a difference: Metrowater’s observation wells showed the city’s groundwater table had gone up by almost 50% since the 2002 drought. Officials attributed the increase to the intensive campaign and law that made rainwater harvesting mandatory for all buildings. But residents of   did not share the optimism. “We were baffled,” said Mohan S, secretary of its residents’ welfare association.
 
 Worse, water in four of their wells were orange – an indication of high iron content. With   supply being erratic, residents at most apartment complexes in the city were at the mercy of private water tankers. “We used to spend Rs 6-7lakh every year,” said Mohan. The requirement was around 75,000 litres every day.
 
 That was when they turned to Sekhar of   for help. After guiding residents on ways to revive their existing rainwater harvesting structure, Sekhar walked to the apartment complex across the road to gauge their water level. Their situation was far removed from the desperation of their neighbours. Water was available in their open wells at four feet. With the discovery, Sekhar’s campaign for better water management took a new turn. For the last decade he has been sensitising residents about the presence of two aquifers – the shallow aquifer that extends up to a depth of 60 feet and reaps the dividends of a rainwater harvesting system, and the deep aquifer that lies below a layer of hardrock at a   to 100 feet. Mohan and his neighbours sunk four open wells on their premises and hit water.
 
 Their timing was perfect. The northeast monsoon that followed the 2008 summer washed out memories of the crisis. Within the compound walls of Ceebros Garden, the rainwater in terraces and driveways was diverted to tanks below. The good spells of rain continued till 2011. Wells brimmed, more borewells were drilled and the campaign for rainwater harvesting lost sheen. Metrowater’s records showed the per capita water consumption in the city had gone up to 110 litres per capita per day (LPCD) – almost quadruple since 2003, when it stood at 28LPCD. The extravagance was evident in Mohan’s household too. “We had stopped maintaining our rainwater harvesting setup. The crisis was behind us,” said the 56-year-old businessman.
 
 But a crisis-related to water is only a season away in Chennai. The city had a deficit monsoon in 2012. However, water managers were upbeat as two months later, on February 22, 2013, the government inaugurated the Rs871 crore desalination plant in Nemmeli. The plant would cater to 15 lakh residents in Chennai’s south.
 
 Mohan wasn’t a beneficiary but the news still excited him. “I thought it was just a matter of time before we could fully depend on Metrowater to see us through summers,” said Mohan. Four months later, scarcity hit the city. With storage levels in its reservoirs fast dwindling, Metrowater cut water supply from 831 million litres per day (MLD) to 550MLD. Till date, the water agency has not been able to go back to supplying the initial quantum.
 
 The dry spell continued into 2014 and the average groundwater level fell by up to four meters across the city. “We had to revert to private tanker supply,” said Mohan. “But it wasn’t as bad as 2008. Our borewells were dry, we still had water in our open wells,” he said. Occupants of the apartment complex after several meetings realised they had the resources and a law to conserve water. “We just had to put it to use,” said Mohan. And they did. When the city went under water in 2015 after receiving the highest amount of rainfall in more than a century, Mohan and his neighbours tapped this water.
 
 And, in 2017, it buffered them through the worst drought since 2002. “Which drought?” asked Mohan. The crisis in the city ended at their gates.
 
 
