LUCKNOW: Monday's byelections in four   and 10 assembly constituencies across the country was marred by complaints of EVM glitches and clamour for repolls. Contrary to expectations,   and Noopur in Uttar Pradesh registered a low voter turnout amid reports of malfunctioning EVMs disrupting the polling process. According to the Election Commission, Kairana recorded around 54% polling, almost 18% less than 2014. The turnout also dipped in   assembly seat from around 67% in 2017 to 61% this time. 

 UP chief electoral officer L Venkateshwarlu said anomalies related to EVMs and VVPAT were reported from around 380 (of 2056) polling booths in Kairana and Noopur. The EC said it would conduct re-polling in booths where process remained disrupted for over two hours.
 
 In Maharashtra, even as the EC claimed that there were no malpractices, both   and NCP sought repolling in Palghar and Bhandara-Gondia Lok Sabha constituencies citing large-scale misconduct and EVM snags. According to reports, more than 1,000 machines which failed in both constituencies had to be replaced. The byelections assume significance amid raging tussle over ruling alliance partners - BJP and Shiv Sena.
 
 Faulty VVPAT attached to EVMs introduced for the first time in the Palghar Lok Sabha constituency bypoll led to chaos in the first half of polling that saw a turnout of around 46.5%. A total of 276 VVPATs attached to EVMs developed technical problems as voting began. Another 15 EVMs and 15 controllers too developed snags.
 
 Voters braved rains and turned up in large numbers in Chengannur assembly bypoll in Kerala. About 74% of the 1.99 lakh electorates exercised their franchise till reports last came in.
 
 In Punjab, former Congress minister Brij Bhupinder Singh Lalli, who joined SAD just 10 days ago, was booked for entering a polling booth in the Shahkot assembly constituency with his licensed revolver. Over 53% polling was recorded in the bypoll to the Tharali Assembly seat in Uttarakhand's Chamoli district.
 
 Byelections to the Nagaland Lok Sabha seat and the Ampati assembly seat in Meghalaya went off peacefully, with both states registering high voter turnouts. While the outcome of the Nagaland bypoll will indicate the mood of the electorate in the run-up to next year's Lok Sabha election, Ampati results will determine which party becomes the single largest in the Meghalaya assembly.
 
 Nagaland witnessed a voter turnout of 75%, which is set to go up as reports from remote polling stations come in. In Meghalaya, Ampati saw more than 90% voters beat the heat and queue up to exercise their franchise.
 
 Bypolls for Silli and Gomia assembly seats in Jharkhand saw 75.5% and 63.8% turnouts, respectively. No major complaint of rigging or violence was reported. Around 70% of votes were cast till 5pm for bypoll to the Maheshtala assembly constituency in West Bengal.
 
