Millions of Muslims around the world on Thursday marked the start of  , a month of intense prayer, dawn-to-dusk fasting and nightly feasts.   marks the end of Ramzan. The annual observance is regarded as one of the five pillars of Islam. 

 
 In a bid at creating an environment free of terror and violence during the holy month, the Centre has announced a conditional ceasefire under which security forces will not launch any operations in Jammu and Kashmir during Ramzan, but reserve the right to retaliate if attacked.
 
 Here are some questions and answers about Islam's holiest month. (Source: AP)
 
 
 
 Ramzan is a time of contemplation, fortitude and worship. The fast is intended to bring the faithful closer to God and to remind them of the suffering of those less fortunate. Ramzan is a time to detach from worldly pleasures and focus on one's inner self.
 
 It's seen as a way to physically and spiritually purify, refraining from habits such as smoking and caffeine. Muslims often donate to charities during the month and feed the hungry. Many spend more time at mosques during Ramzan and use their downtime to recite the Quran.
 
 Fasting during Ramzan is one of the five pillars of Islam, along with the Muslim declaration of faith, daily prayer, charity, and performing the hajj pilgrimage in  .
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Observant Muslims abstain from eating and drinking from dawn to dusk for the entire month of Ramzan. A single sip of water or a puff of a cigarette is enough to invalidate the fast.
 
 However, Muslim scholars say it's not enough to just avoid food and drinks during the day. Ramzan is also an exercise in self-restraint. Muslims are encouraged to avoid gossip and arguments. Sexual intercourse between spouses is also forbidden during the daytime fast.
 
 Just before the fast, Muslims have a pre-dawn meal of power foods to get them through the day, the "suhoor." Egyptians eat mashed fava beans called "ful," spiced with cumin and olive oil, while in Lebanon and Syria, popular suhoor food is flatbread with thyme, cheese or yogurt. In Afghanistan, people eat dates and dumplings stuffed with potato and leeks, first steamed, then fried.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Muslims traditionally break their fast like the Prophet Muhammad did some 1,400 years ago, with a sip of water and some dates at sunset. That first sip of water is the most anticipated moment of the day.
 
 After sunset prayers, a large feast known as "iftar" is shared with family and friends. Iftar is a social event as much as it is a gastronomical adventure. Across the Arab world, apricot juices are an iftar staple. In South Asia and Turkey, yogurt-based drinks are popular.
 
 Every night of Ramzan, mosques and aid organizations set up tents and tables for the public to have free iftar meals.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Yes. There are exceptions for children, the elderly, those who are ill, women who are pregnant, nursing or menstruating, and people traveling, which can include athletes during tournaments.
 
 Many Muslims, particularly those living in the United States and Europe, are accepting and welcoming of others around them who aren't observing Ramzan.
 
 However, non-Muslims or adult Muslims who eat in public during the day can be fined or even jailed in some Mideast countries, such as Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, which is home to large Western expat populations in Dubai and Abu Dhabi. In many predominantly Muslim countries like Indonesia, karaoke bars and nightclubs are closed across much of the country for the month. Restaurants there use curtains to conceal customers who eat during the day.
 
  
  
 
 And in Egypt, the Dar al-Ifta, which is the main authority in charge of issuing religious edits, warned against eating in public, saying this is not an act of "personal freedom, but chaos — an assault on Islam."
 
 In China, minority Uighur Muslims complain of heavy restrictions by the Communist Party, such as bans on fasting by party members, civil servants, teachers and students during Ramzan, as well as generally enforced bans on children attending mosques, women wearing veils and young men growing beards.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Typically, the start of the month is welcomed with the greeting of "Ramzan kareem!" Another hallmark of Ramzan is nightly prayer at the mosque among Sunni Muslims called "taraweeh."
 
 Egyptians have the tradition of Ramzan lanterns called the "fanoos," often the centerpiece at an iftar table or seen hanging in window shops and from balconies. In the Arabian Gulf countries, wealthy families hold "majlises" where they open their doors for people to pass by all hours of the night for food, tea, coffee and conversation.
 
 Increasingly common are Ramzan tents in five-star hotels that offer lavish and pricey meals from sunset to sunrise. While Ramzan is a boon for retailers in the Middle East and South Asia, critics say the holy month is increasingly becoming commercialized.
 
 Scholars have also been disturbed by the proliferation of evening television shows during Ramzan. In Pakistan, live game shows give away gifts promoting their sponsors. In the Arab world, month-long soap operas starring Egypt's top actors, rake in millions of dollars in advertising.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The end of Ramzan is marked by intense worship as peopple seek to have their prayers answered during "Laylat al-Qadr" or "the Night of Destiny." It is on this night, which falls during the last 10 nights of Ramzan, that Muslims believe that God sent the Angel Gabriel to the Prophet Muhammad and revealed the first verse of the Quran.
 
 The end of Ramzan is celebrated by a three-day holiday called   al-Fitr. Children often receive new clothes, gifts and cash.
 
 Muslims attend early morning Eid prayers the day after Ramzan. Families usually spend the day at parks and eating — now during the day.
 
