BENGALURU: "Doors were shut on our faces when we went to campaign here during 2014 Lok Sabha elections," says a woman   worker about the Hebbal assembly constituency. From 2008 when it came into being following delimitation, Hebbal has been a   bastion with the saffron party having won two elections and a bypoll.

 
  
 
 But the tides may be turning. Congress has plunged into the fray with renewed energy, which is apparent in its campaign with the fielding of  . "This time, voters are letting us inside and even offering water," says the relieved Congress worker.
 
 Suresh, Congress' new candidate, is hopeful of posing a serious challenge and even winning the constituency with the backing of his brother  , the sitting MLA in KR Pura.
 
  
  
 Known as the ' ' in the political circles, Suresh and Basavaraja are from chief minister  's camp. The brothers' writ runs large from Hebbal in north Bengaluru to K R Pura in northeast, workers of all parties concede.
 
 Congress also argues that YA Narayanaswamy of the BJP had won the 2016 bypoll on a sympathy wave after the death of sitting MLA Jagadish Kumar and that it won't be the same this time.
 
 
  
 
 But Narayanaswamy is not concerned. "There is an organised political ploy working against me here. SDPI has not fielded any candidate and Congress and JD(S) are desperate to defeat me. But that won't happen. People are with me and have seen my work in the past two years," he says.
 
 
 
 
 JD(S) candidate Hanumanthe Gowda, speaking 'on behalf of the people', says Narayanaswamy has not managed to improve the lives of his constituents which will work in his favour.
 
 While both Narayanaswamy and Gowda belong to the Vokkaliga community, Suresh is hoping to consolidate Kuruba votes. Muslim and Christian voters-as many as 67,000-are also going to play a key role. While Congress is confident of wooing them, Narayanaswamy feels that mere caste equations won't be enough and that his own work, coupled with the party's achievements across the country, will impact people.
 
 But people, who have also prepared their own manifesto, feel that there is a lot more that's desired. From civic infrastructure to encroachment, people have pointed to a series of issues that need to be addressed on priority.
 
