JODHPUR: Maharawal of Sirohi,  , who was conferred with the Padma Shri award by President   last week, is an unchallengeable walking encyclopedia of history.

 He has the historical facts of India on his finger tips and has a confidence in his knowledge to the extent that he can give any historian a run for his knowledge or rather a true knowledge, as he claims.
 
 Singh said, the history we read is what the British imperial powers wanted us to know and is incorrect, misleading and far from the reality.
 
 Gold medalist in History from  , this septuagenarian, a scion of Chauhan clan of Sirohi, Singh devoted his life exploring history, travelling extensively and wants each and every one of us to know the actual history.
 
 “It was this pursuit that drove me to test the historical facts on analytical yardstick and thus my tryst with history began. In order to explore further, I not only gathered the facts from various sources, analysed them but also visited hundreds or thousands of places myself,” he said.
 
 And it was this ardent quest that brought him to conclude that Lord Ram’s period dated back to 35 lakh years which was corroborated by the NASA. In its study, the agency also found the Rama Setu to be of same age.
 
 He further went on to claim that Homo Sapiens existed about 2.97 lakh core years and that the Vedic era is 1 crore years old.
 
 “During the award conferring ceremony, I asked all to come to me for any doubt or confusion about the history and hear me patiently challenging the history that they know or that everyone knows,” avers the Maharawal claiming proudly that nobody knows what he knows about history.
 
 It is his research that claims that the forecast of Indian politics had been made by a sage way back in 1192 AD when Prithviraj was on his way to fight his last battle which he had lost.
 
 “It was this sage who told the king on his face that he was going to lose that battle and predicted that who will rule the country when and how that particular rule would turn out to be,” he claimed.
 
 Not believing the famous saying that History repeats itself, he says that history teaches us and if we learn from it making sure that it does not repeat itself, we will be the world leader once again on religious, spiritual and scientific front.
 
 
