Known for his performance in the limited overs format, Indian leg spinner   doesn’t shy away from expressing his love for Bengaluru. However, his alleged link-up with Kannada actress   has sent rumour mills into a tizzy. In a quick chat with Bangalore Times, the young lad from Haryana clears the air about his relationship status, his love for   and why Bengaluru is so special…

 
 
 Putting all rumour mills to rest about his alleged link-up with Tanishka, he says, “For the past 4-5 months, a lot has been written about Tanishka and I. I’ve read so many articles, but the truth is that we are very good friends. You know how people speculate if we go out together — they think that we are dating. “But that’s not true, we are best friends. I am really tired of this. Every day there is a new article and people have been calling her, and have been sending her links to different articles,” Yuzvendra adds.
 
 
 
 The cricketer, when not playing any tournaments, finds his way back to the city and the M Chinnaswamy Stadium. “Whenever I’m not playing, I come to the National Cricket Academy for my training. This is not my second home but it’s my first. Chinnaswamy Stadium is my favourite ground. People think that it’s a small ground and that bowlers don’t like it. I’ve played one match here for Team India. I feel no pressure when I play here,” he says, adding, “One of my most favourite memories while playing at the stadium was when I took six wickets for Team India. The crowd here is so great. Even if you are not playing well, they still cheer for you and watch the match till the last ball. It gives me goose bumps to see the crowd here, cheering for us. When I’m not playing, I like to go out with my friends and explore the restaurants in the city.”
 
 
 
 Ask him about his friends from Bengaluru, and he talks about his cricket buddies. “I share a great rapport with KL Rahul and other players from the city. I’ve known Rahul for almost 8-9 years now. We played together in the U-19 and he’s like my brother. Then there are others like Mayank Agarwal, Abhimanyu Mithun and CM Gowtham, who are my old buddies. Whenever they are here, we catch up and spend some time,” he says.
 
 
 
 Known for his funny video and pictures online, we can’t help but ask who he likes to prank the most. “I am the funny guy in the team. It’s my nature and I like pulling pranks on my teammates. I am very close to Rohit Sharma, Virat Kohli, Manish Pandey, Axar Patel. In addition to that, Mandy (Mandeep Singh) is also a prankster but it’s me mostly. I enjoy pranking Daniel Vettori, Chris Woakes and some of the newer guys,” he says. But what about skipper Virat Kohli? “Virat bhaiyya is like my elder brother. I always turn to him for advice, whether we are on ground or even in personal life. He always backs me up, and not just me, but he’s very supportive towards youngsters. If one of us has had a bad day, he always talks to us and tries to cheer us up and make us comfortable,” says Yuzvendra. 
 
 
 
 The cricketer, who has also represented India in chess at junior levels, says that cricket has always been his passion. “It was my dad’s dream that I play chess but I was more interested in cricket. I had to choose between the two and I obviously chose cricket because I enjoyed playing the game. That’s when my dad said it’s your choice as long as you represent India. For chess, you need at least 10-12 hours of practice every day and I was unable to go to the ground to play cricket. After sometime, I had to choose only one game since I couldn’t be playing two games simultaneously. So, in 2003 after the World Cup, I played one tournament and then I took the decision to play cricket. However, if I had not been a sportsperson, I would’ve been in the Indian Army,” says Yuzvendra.
 
 
