Mangaluru: A Bajrang Dal member was brutally hacked to death on Wednesday allegedly over a trivial dispute over tying of buntings at a religious festival. Four people were arrested within five hours of the murder that took place in Katipalla, Surathkal, about 16km from here.

 The issue of buntings had cropped up a few days ago between Hindus and Muslims in the area during the annual fair at the Shibaroor temple and the annual Urs of a local mosque. Sources said the buntings intersected at a point and this led to a heated altercation between members of the two communities. Sources said the man murdered on Wednesday, 25-year-old Deepak Rao, was among those who clashed. 
 
 Rao worked as a marketing executive with a private telecom firm owned by a Muslim, police said. Since most of the customers were from the minority community, Rao used to frequent the areas dominated by them. He was even fluent in the Beary language spoken by Muslims in Mangaluru. Around 1.30pm on Wednesday, Rao was on his way to collect some documents from his office at Katipalla when the attackers arrived in a car and attacked him. Rao’s fingers were severed and he suffered severe head injuries in the attack. He died immediately. The body was shifted to private hospital for postmortem and a huge crowd gathered there. Rao is survived by his mother and a differently-abled brother.
 
 Mangaluru City police arrested four assailants as they were fleeing in a car near Mijar in Moodbidri, around 20km from the scene of the crime. Police chased the accused and opened fire on the vehicle to stop them. Sources said one of the assailants was injured in the firing. Local Bajrang Dal leaders in Moodbidri also helped police nab the assailants.
 
 Tension prevailed in Surathkal after the murder. All shops and commercial establishments voluntarily pulled down their shutters. A private city bus was damaged by agitators in Soorinje. Police have been deployed across Surathkal to prevent any untoward incident. A case has been registered at Surathkal police station. BJP leaders condemned the murder and demanded an NIA probe. 
 
 Deepak will be cremated on Thursday morning.
 
 
