AGARTALA: The hospital service of   ( ) has been disrupted since Friday following a clash between irate mob and doctors after death of a person. Trouble broke out after the death of a patient on Friday night as his family accused the hospital authorities of negligence, leading to verbal disagreements and a scuffle. Later on Saturday morning, junior doctors ceased work and started a protest demanding safety and better working conditions.

 Family members of the deceased person claimed that though the patient had been admitted in a critical condition, no senior doctors were available on duty. A junior doctor who was present could not treat him properly and the patient died a couple of hours later, they added.
 
 Nirmal Shil, the son of the deceased patient, said, "The doctor was not even able to confirm my father's death. He virtually died in front of us without treatment. Out of anger, some of our relatives abused the doctor and accused him of not treating my father properly. But immediately, the doctor and sisters called the private security guards who manhandled us in front of everyone."
 
 The medical superintendent of the hospital, Dr  , said, "The hospital administration has been trying to restore service."
 
 The junior doctors have, since Saturday morning, launched an agitation demanding better security and other basic amenities. They staged a protest in front of the principal of the college and superintendent of the hospital alleging that the authority was not serious about their demands.
 
 "Most of the time, we have to handle critical patients because the senior doctors and specialists are only on duty from 10 am to 4 pm. Even when they are called at late hours, hardly any senior doctors attend to patients. The interns and post-graduate students of the college are running the hospital and facing these odd situations," a doctor from the agitating faction claimed. He also alleged that the state government did not provide basic minimum facilities and remuneration for the junior doctors and the post-graduate students. Agitating doctors have ransacked the quarter of AGMC principal   after he left the place in the morning. The state government has ordered an enquiry into the incident.
 
