HYDERABAD: The entry and exit points of malls and other commercial establishments are major points of traffic congestion in the city say residents. With more malls expected to crop up across the city by the end of this year, traffic congestion is likely to get worse, if left unmanaged, say experts.

 According to a report titled ‘Telangana   : The new face of India’s growth story’ recently published by the   (TREDA) and property consultant   (JLL), Hyderabad will have 6 million sft of mall space over the next three years.
 
 “Vehicles are often found queuing up on the road, outside entry points of malls, creating traffic congestion. Auto stands are also right outside the exit point of these malls, which further reduces the carriageway. While a few malls have ample space within their complexes, many malls do not even provide parking for customers, thus forcing many to leave their vehicles on the road. This, coupled with the Metro work is causing severe traffic chaos,” said  , a resident of Punjagutta.
 
 Others identified the decision of civic authorities to allow towering mall complexes to come up at busy junctions as a major issue.
 
 “Despite the long-winding traffic jams which form on the Ameerpet-Punjagutta stretch, authorities have allowed yet another mall to come up at the busy Punjagutta Junction. Another mall is also under construction at the busy  , which already witnesses’ severe traffic chaos,” said Soumya Bhat, a resident of Ameerpet.
 
 Traffic experts pointed out how the common practise followed by malls in Hyderabad was to use the maximum space for commercial purposes and only allocate the remaining area towards parking. “Malls create a lot of traffic chaos, at the entry and exit points, especially during weekends. One major cause is the lack of space inside the complex. Although at the time of obtaining permissions, ample space is allocated towards parking, by the time construction is completed, the space is reduced drastically. The town planning authorities do not conduct checks on the same,” said Vinod K Kanumala, CEO of the Indian Federation of Road Safety (IFROS).
 
 
 
 
 
 
