BATHINDA: Upset over the enforced cut in the short-term crop loan,   held protests at all 37 branches of the   Central Cooperative Bank on Monday. No transactions were done at most of the branches due to these protests. Farmers are demanding allocation of loans as per the policy of the state government.

 In a letter to the managing director of the   State Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank (PSCADB) and deputy assistant registrars of cooperative societies of all districts on March 28, the registrar of cooperative societies had fixed the short-term crop loan at Rs 14,000 per acre in cash and Rs 9,000 per acre for fertilisers. This is the scale of finance for kharif crops for 2018-19.
 
 These loans attract an interest rate of 7% and there is further a rebate of 3% in interest if farmers repay money in time through government subvention. In all districts of Punjab, except Bathinda, the loans are being advanced to the famers as per the above policy.
 
 However, here in the district, the central cooperative bank authorities have decided to provide only Rs 10,000 per acre instead of Rs 14,000 per acre. The authorities, while effecting a cut of Rs 4,000 per acre in loan advances, claim that they were anticipating to receive less amount from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD).
 
 Meanwhile, sources claimed that frauds had been committed by some bank employees in the past due to which the bank did not have sufficient amount to advance as loans.
 
 When the farmers laid siege to the bank branch at the Bathinda grain market, the staff locked the building and reached the head office. Supported by the representatives of 193 multipurpose cooperative agricultural service societies (MPCASS) with 90,000 members, the protesting farmers sat outside all the branches of the bank.
 
 State cooperation department’s Bathinda district deputy registrar (DDR)   said, “We are in talks with the farmers as bank is not in a position to provide full amount as we expect to get less amount for advancement from NABARD on June 30.”
 
 He, however, accepted that frauds had been detected in some branches, which was also causing problem in advancing full amount to the farmers.
 
  PSCADB MD S K Batish said, “I have sought report on why less amount is being provided in Bathinda when there is no problem in other districts. We are trying to stabilize the things. It is a transitional phase as new credit policy has been formalized. Rescheduling is on and the things will get smooth soon.”
 
 
