By: Jacin S

 I had no idea what to do after finishing Class XII. According to my parents, the only course that guaranteed a “good” future was  . So I joined a prestigious coaching institute a week after my results. I had to stay in a hostel with hundreds of others, all hoping to the crack the exam. It was indeed a ‘rat race.’ After 10 months of work and sleepless nights, I thought I was ready. But on the day I wrote the  , I knew I had got it all wrong.
 
 I clearly remember the day the results were out. Even the neighbour, with whom I had never had a conversation, wanted to know if I would be a doctor, or not. I got calls from every relative I know, and with every call, I felt like I had failed in life. The next couple of weeks were very difficult. I had to explain why I couldn’t clear the entrance exam to every person I met. I felt I had let my parents down; I started believing I wasn’t good enough; and that it was the end of my career. I did want to try again but had lost all my confidence.
 
 After some consolation, I gathered energy and applied for geology at Fergusson College, Pune. I got through. My life changed gears. New faces, new campus, new language, new culture, and most importantly, new friends. I even joined the college's film society and started travelling. Things started to change and because of all that time outdoors, I soon realised my true calling — the environment.
 
 I then applied for a masters in environment management at the  , Dehradun, and also applied for entrance examinations for all Central universities. Because I loved everything about the environment, I prepared well. This time, instead of mugging up for 12 hours a day — as I had done during my MBBS preparation — I started enjoying what I was reading. I studied about three hours every day and surfed the Web for matter.
 
 Finally, the results were out. I had topped the entrance examination to Central universities and secured 12th rank in the entrance exam for the Forest Research Institute. I chose FRI because my best friend too had been selected for the same college.
 
 Coming to FRI opened up a whole range of opportunities for me. I was introduced to ways in which the environment was actually being managed — like the restoration of barren lands, concepts of waste management, conservation, etc. I got to be closer to nature than I ever was. I realised I could choose any direction of my interest here.
 
 So, all in all, I got to travel; make friends for life; got to do much more than study inside a room; and discovered my interest.
 
 Today, I’m glad I failed that medical entrance. It wasn’t the end, but the beginning of me.
 
 
 
 
