KOCHI: District administration and district child protection unit will jointly launch an anti-narcotic programme titled   for high school and higher secondary students in April. 

 The programme aims to create awareness regarding liquor and substance abuse and is envisaged to promote abstinence from drugs and other harmful substances.
 
 As part of Jyoti, parents and teachers (PTA) meetings will be held at government and aided schools to create awareness and to provide training on how to tackle the issue of substance abuse.
 
 In addition to that, training will also be given to school counsellors to provide counselling to students, parents and teachers. Officials with excise and social justice department will also conduct awareness and training sessions in this regard.
 
 Apart from awareness and training programmes, peer groups like   (friends group) anti-narcotic clubs, protection groups with the assistance of police and excise officials as well as jagratha samithis will be formed at government and aided schools.
 
 District collector   said that during the beginning of each academic year students will be given special counselling. "Along with counselling sessions various sports and cultural activities will be conducted for school students.   workers will be entrusted with the task of conducting surveys to collect details regarding substance abuse among students and to organize awareness classes," said Safirullah.
 
 District child protection officer K B Saina said that a separate de -addiction centre should be established for students.
 
 "According to the data provided by juvenile justice board, the substance abuse among children is increasing year by year. In 2015, 10 cases were registered about drug abuse among children. In 2016 it rose to 24 and 64 cases were registered in 2017. Despite substance abuse among children increasing, there has been a lack of programmes aimed at rehabilitating them. It is at this juncture district child protection office decided to launch Jyoti," said Saina, child protection officer.
 
 Excise deputy commissioner K E Nelson said that using drugs and liquor have become a trend or fashion among students and a societal intervention is needed to tackle the issue.
 
 The final decision to launch the new anti-narcotic programme was taken at a meeting convened by the district collector on Tuesday to discuss whether the programme 'Jyoti' can implemented along with Vimukthi, an anti-narcotics campaign carried out by excise department.
 
  The project will be implemented with the support of social justice, excise, police, health, education and local self-government departments. 
 
 
