 
  
 
  The floating market of Patuli, inaugurated by chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday, threw up a weighty problem within the first 24 hours of operations. None of the weighing scales of the 228 hawkers on the 114 boats is working properly. Since the boats are rocking at the slightest movement or the hint of a breeze, items are showing different weight readings within seconds. This has left the buyers and sellers a harassed lot. 
 
 
 
 Funnily enough, no one had taken this unexpected problem into account when the market was inaugurated. The issue with the weights became apparent only on Thursday morning, when business at the market started in full earnest. As soon as the boats swayed a bit, the reading of the scales — both manual and electric — kept changing. The greater the weight of the goods being measured, the higher the difference in reading. 
  
 
 A couple of physics professors we spoke to explained why this was happening. The mechanics of any weighing machine works on the laws of gravity and inertia. And the   need to be levelled properly on the surface where it is standing. “Since a boat’s surface is never still, the machine is never at the same level,” said a physics professor from St Xavier’s College. When the boat is bobbing up, the weight shows greater than actual, and when the boat is pitching downwards, the weight shown is lower than what it should be. 
 
 
 
 This mismatch in weights soon led to some dissatisfaction among the customers on Thursday morning, with some of them even refusing to buy the goods. “The weight of goods I’m paying for is not right. How can I buy anything?” asked Samaresh Nath, a retired government official. Bapan Sardar, a potato and onion seller was bewildered with his malfunctioning electric weighing machines. He said, “I never anticipated this would happen. Now I think I will have to buy a new machine.”
 
 
 
 There are three probable solutions. The first would be to place the weighing machine on the axis of the boat. “If you join two pointed ends of the boat with an imaginary line, that line would be the axis and it’s the most static position on the rolling boat,” said a physics teacher. The second would be to tie the boat as tightly as possible to stop it from moving. The third would be to use a crane scale weighing machine, the kind used on big fishing boats. Those machines give a correct reading even on a moving boat.
 
 
