Chennai: From large tech major’s like Google’s ‘Find Waldo’ game to small Chennai startups focusing on April Cool ‘plant-a-sapling’ day — corporates are looking at brand recall as well as fooling their customers. At Google, there is a new option for users to play “Where’s Waldo” via Google Maps for April 1, 2018.  For Google offering games has become a norm, after offering Pac-Man in 2015 and Ms Pac-Man in 2017. Burger King tried to pull a fast one by annoucing its creating its first Chocolate Whooper — a chocolate cake bun, a “flame-grilled chocolate patty,” raspberry syrup (ketchup), white chocolate rings (onions), candied blood oranges (tomatoes) and vanilla frosting (mayo). Coca-cola meanwhile tried to shock and irk its followers by announcing its new flavours — avocado, sourdough and charcoal — on Instagram. Back home, Ola said it was launching a hyperlocal news service, Ola News Network for getting news on “paneer ka price” or "local weather ka wither?”. UberEats has announced an anti-ageing ice cream, while Oyo’s launched an ‘Oyo Smart Coin’ for digital payments and Urban Ladder its latest product — a chair cum ladder with a coffee mug holder.  Olay India was quick to take credit for the UberEats’ prank tweeting, “Big shout out to @UberEATS_IND for being inspired by our #1AntiAgingcream - Welcome to the Club!” On a more literary note, Penguin India, came with a list of Shakespearean fools, memorable quotes and passages to take us through the day with the Bard’s wittiest and best. Others like LiveHistory.com also took us on a stroll down memory lane -- by mentioning iconic fools like Governor General Lord William Bentick from the East India Company, who came with the idea of selling Taj Mahal’s marble block by block to England. Telecom operator Reliance Jio has promised to solve all your power outage issues with JioJuice. Reliance Jio put out a video asking users to insert their Jio SIM into phones for it to automatically charge. “A wireless Jio network creates an electromagnetic field between the transmitter Jio telephone tower and receiver io SIM. This enables a free transfer of energy thus charging your phone all time.”  California Walnuts India, came up with the best puns, starring two walnuts. One of the cartoons show a walnut saying, “I start my journey today and I ‘walnut fail’ ...to which fellow-walnut rolling in the aisle laughing says, “that pun just cracked me up.” For something startling in the clothesline, Aditya Birla Group announced the “Mr. India movie lovers rejoice! We’re bringing your childhood fantasy to life! After years of R&D, we’re proud to announce the world’s first invisible shirt! Prepare to stun your friends and family by turning yourself into a floating head! Know more.”  Other corporates like Flipkart, PTIC India, Panasonic India, others played it safe and just stuck to just wishes this April Fool’s Day.