The next time you want to tell someone to chill out, you can tell them to ‘go jump’. Quite literally. If the latest trend is anything to go by, a large of Mumbaikars are taking to   in a big way — a   that has you flying over a picturesque valley, with a harness strapped to your back and a nylon canopy above you. A rage up north, the hobby is now getting city folks to head to  , a place 120 kms away from  . Just near enough to make it a regular affair, unlike the annual vacay to the north.

 
 
 
  
  
 
 On a clear day, you will see paragliding pilots like streaks of ribbon across the sky here. “It’s an Insta-worthy moment,” laughs Sanjay Rao, who introduced the sport to this place. From just a handful of people a year, there is now a dedicated bunch of 200 people that visit the place regularly. “It’s the closest you can get to flying like a bird. And people from Mumbai love this hobby, as they get to do something that goes beyond the movie-and-mall routine during weekends. Some even say that it has changed their perspective towards life.” 
 From students as young as 16 to 70-year-olds, Mumbaikars across age groups are taking up this activity. What feels more satisfying is to see people learning to pilot themselves around; they call it their ‘me-time’. Professionals are also taking time out to paraglide. 
 Says marketing manager and Navi Mumbai resident Sourav Goenka, “I ensure that I fly regularly as it’s my passion and it totally re-energises me. The whole place with its lush green valleys gives so much positive energy, which is what we lack in the city. It’s like a whole day of camping out.” 
 Juhu-based digital marketer Apoorva Talwalkar says it adds to the zen quotient in her life. “Paragliding gives me the calmness of meditation and the adrenaline of an adventure sport. The moment I have a spare weekend, I’m running off to Kamshet to get more ‘air’ time,” she reveals. 
 Agrima Gupta, Andheri-based cinematographer says the hobby has been fuelling her sense of adventure. “I’ve been paragliding for a few months. On my last flight, I flew just before sunset and it seemed like I was gliding down with the sun. It is a moment I’ll never forget; it connected me to nature more than ever. I’m now planning to become a paragliding pilot,” she states. 
 For some, it’s all about realising their capabilities. Ghatkopar-based resident and banker by profession, Anand Palekar was gifted the paragliding experience by his wife. “Since I first tried it, I haven’t been able to break away from it,” he admits. And what is it that gives him a high about it? “The moment my feet leave Mother Earth,” he says. “When I just get lifted off the ground, it becomes the most defining moment for me. A lot more people should try this out, even a tandem flight. People discover more about themselves as flying pushes your limits. This sport is different from regular adventure sports like rock climbing and rappelling as there are props like a rope, but here the only safety or protection is the radio strapped to the front of the chair and the instructor’s soothing voice coming across it.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Don’t fret if you haven’t ever tried paragliding before or are worried to attempt it. “As long as you have no heart condition or suffer from epilepsy, anyone can try this,” says Sanjay. And how do you know if it’s your game? “If you can climb a hill and go for a trek, you can fly,” he adds. 
 The task is basic — you are assigned an instructor after you sign up and book a paragliding flight. The first 
 flying experience — mostly a joyride —lasts for about 10 minutes in the air with an experienced instructor. Longer flights are possible, like 20-30 minutes for acrobatic flights (where you do tight turns and gentle wing-overs). It is important to understand the air currents and wind conditions, so one should never try this on their own. The launch and landing are the tricky parts, but the instructors take care of this. “There’s no danger of crashing into a mountain. Would you jump onto the opposite lane while driving?” he asks. 
 
 
 
 
 
 One is said to burn approximately 230   per hour in a normal paragliding session
 
 
 
 Do not take up this sport without training and supervision or sans the right safety gear. 
 
 
