KOLKATA: In a near-rerun of the Robinson Street incident, a man was found living with the decomposed body of his mother at his   residence. Police have lodged a case of unnatural death and took the man —   — to a hospital for treatment.

 
 On Sunday morning, locals became alert after getting a stench from the second-floor residence of   (71). The residents then started looking for the source when it grew stronger. “When we entered the residence of Das, we found her flat locked from inside. As we knocked on the doors, Abhishek alias Babai yelled out. When we asked him about his mother, he said she was sleeping and should not be disturbed,” said  , a local. 
  
 
 
 After the locals started banging on the door, Abhishek opened it. The residents were shocked to find the septuagenarian lying dead on the floor. Her swollen body was covered with a bed sheet as she was lying on her face on the ground. Abhishek, a local said, asked them not to wake his mother up. Police rushed to the spot after being alerted by the locals. Abhishek, who was found loitering on the roof, was detained for questioning.
 
 
 “We had heard that ‘jethima’ had suffered a head injury almost 10 days ago and tenants in the house had taken her to the doctor. Her brother-in-law had also come to meet her, but Abhishek sent him back. He was also abused and beaten up by him,” said  , another local.
 
 
 The neighbours on Sunday claimed that Abhishek was a drug addict and even sent to rehabilitation centres before. He would allegedly pressurise his parents for money to buy drugs. “Though he had started a multimedia editing centre at his residence, it didn’t take off. He got married a few years ago, but his wife divorced him soon after their marriage. Abhishek’s father — a retired central government employee — died a few years ago,” said a neighbour.
 
 
 Another neighbour said that Abhishek was seen at a restaurant nearby ordering biryani on Saturday evening. One of the tenants said they did not get any foul smell till Sunday morning.
 
