Nagpur: After TOI exposed a forged documents scam (December 11) by unscrupulous parents to get free admissions under Right to Education (RTE) quota, more schools came forward with evidence of shocking manipulation by parents. From businessmen to private company employees and even a city cop have produced fake income certificates to qualify as ‘economically backward’. A city cop, who has been in the service for over a decade, has claimed that his entire family earns less than Rs60,000 in a year. Sources in the department say the cop’s income is at least Rs3.6 lakh per year. Several businessmen who drive in for Parent-Teachers Meeting (PTM) in cars claim to be surviving in less than Rs5,000 per month. A principal, said, “One such family actually pays electricity bill that’s over Rs2,000 per month. It is hard to imagine how they maintain their house, vehicle, pay for groceries, clothes, petrol etc in the remaining Rs3,000.” Parents of a CBSE school student had submitted electricity bill as address proof and what the principal saw shocked him. “The bill for a particular month was almost Rs20,000. Yet, this gentleman was able to submit an income certificate which clearly stated that his annual income is less than Rs1 lakh,” the principal told TOI. After income certificates, address proof documents are second most popular papers to be forged. A principal said, “RTE admission software gives priority to those who live close by, hence they all come up with rental agreements which we can make out are fake but don’t have the manpower to pursue.” Many rental agreements are surprisingly made just a week before admission process is completed. But even the rental agreements are made in an unabashed manner. Principal of a well-known CBSE school said, “The agreement mentions annual rent as Rs60,000 even though the family claims on record that their annual income is only Rs60,000. So if they spend everything on rent, how do they manage the rest of the things?” One particular couple went to the extent of mentioning in their rental agreement that the change of address is solely for the purpose of seeking admission. Though the forgery is obvious, schools say they have no option but to just ‘flow with the system’. “We do send back a few but then they use pressure tactics. One such parent claimed he did not forge the income certificate but was duped by a tout. This parent then got a letter from a powerful city politician’s office asking us to reconsider the admission,” said the principal.