PUNE: Barely two days to go, the education office in Pune has an uphill task of completing 3,000 admissions of the first round under the Right to Education ( ) Act.

 
  
 
 The RTE admissions schedule this year has gone for a toss. The first round of admissions has still not been completed while the new academic session is set to start in a month’s time. The fate of the second round will depend on the admissions in the first round till May 13.
 
 The list for the first round of admissions was announced in March. It had provision for 10,500 admissions. Almost 7,000 admissions were confirmed in the same month and 500 in April. 
 
 Some schools had approached the court, stating that they would not give any admission unless the state government reimbursed the money for the admissions done in the previous year. After the court ordered to complete the admissions for this year despite the reimbursement issue, the admissions of the first round began slowly.
 
 The officiating education officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, Ganpat More, said, “The court has given directives to the protesting schools to continue with the admissions. If they still resist and fail to admit the students allotted to them, we will have to initiate strict action against them and derecognize them, if needed.”
 
 Rashid Shaikh, a parent trying to seek admission for his son under the RTE Act, said, “For the past 15 days, I have been visiting the school allotted to my child, but its authorities have been giving vague answers. They told us initially that there was a stay on admissions. They later said the vacation was on and so they cannot process the admission.”
 
 The Aam Aadmi Parents’ Union chief, Mukund Kirdat, said, “The ultimate sufferers in this situation are parents and children. The scheme is for the benefit of the students, but they always suffer because of the school and government not arriving to any solution. We have demanded that the admissions should be done promptly and without parents being harassed.” 
 
 
