LUCKNOW: After conferring the   Award on chief minister  ,   has moved a proposal to bestow a similar title on Prime Minister  .
 
 The announcement has come at a time when Dalits and backwards across the country have taken to the streets to protest against alleged harassment of their community and a proposed change in the SC/ST Act.
 
 On Saturday, on the occasion of Dalit icon BR Ambedkar’s 127th birth anniversary, the organization gifted a bust of Baba Saheb and a saffron chair with an inscription of ‘Dalit Mitra’ to the CM, thanking him for being a “natural friend” of Dalits.
 
 “UP’s boundary cannot stop you and we hope that one day you will reach the peak of Indian politics,” said Dalit Mahasabha president Lalji Prasad Nirmal.
 
 On his part, the CM praised Modi for taking forward the tradition of Ambedkar by ensuring that the country was truly independent by ensuring equality and harmony. “If there is someone who has ensured that the poor, Dalits and most backwards in the country get respect and has pushed forward the idea of an equal country, it is Modi. He is a mahapurush who has achieved this in very little time,” the CM said.
 
 Yogi further added that all those connected with Baba Saheb’s mission “should thank Modi because he is the only one who has actually accorded any respect to Baba Saheb after Independence”. He said: “If anyone has done work to connect the five places associated with Baba Saheb it is Modi. His birth place in Mhow, his diksha bhoomi in Nagpur, the building in England where he studied, the building in Delhi where he lived and his chaitya bhoomi in Mumbai have been established as places of pilgrimage and developed as impressive memorials. This work has been done by BJP and Modi.”
 
 Assuring the audience that Dalits would not be harassed by the police or other officials for the violence that erupted during the April 2 Bharat Bandh, the CM said: “We have issued orders that no innocent person will be harassed by police and while action will definitely been taken against those involved in rioting, no poor or Dalit will be harassed. If any official harassed them, they will be taken task.”
 
 
