BELAGAVI: It’s a do or die battle for KPCC women’s wing president Laxmi  , contesting from Marathi-dominated Belagavi (Rural) assembly constituency for the second time. She had lost the seat by a narrow margin of 2,500 votes in the 2013 election. And in 2014, she lost from the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency.

 
 The Congress heavyweight, who has admitted more than once that some of her own party leaders are working against her, is facing BJP’s sitting MLA Sanjay Patil and Manohar Kinekar, former MLA of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) this time again. Congress rebel Anand Gaddadevarmath had polled nearly 17,000 votes and was the obstacle to her victory last time.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Clouds of rebellion loom over the Congress campaign this time again. Just two months ago, Congress leader Shivanagouda Patil left the party and is now contesting as a JD(S) candidate. Another prominent Congress leader, Mohan More, too, quit the party and is contesting as an Independent. Both are loyal followers of AICC secretary Satish Jarkiholi, the Congress strongman from Belagavi district.
 
 Shivanagouda Patil could eat into the Lingayat vote kitty of Hebbalkar, while More also could take away some Congress votes. Hebbalkar has all the reason to fear that the plot to defeat her is thickening again.
 
 “They are afraid that I could grow faster and overtake them if elected because I come from a dominant Lingayat community and moreover am a woman. One leader is doing everything to defeat me,” Hebbalkar says without taking the name of Satish.
 
 But Hebbalkar is confident of winning. “The writing on the wall is that I will get about 50% of votes cast. I have been in the constituency for five years now and know the pulse of voters,” she says. Hebbalkar’s freebies to voters long before the elections were announced has drawn flak from Modi but voters are not complaining. BJP’s Patil is openly playing the Hindutva card to woo voters.
 
 Ex-MLA Manohar Kinekar, the MES candidate who lost last time by 1,500 votes, is banking on sympathy votes from Marathi-speaking people. His clean image among voters and commitment to the border dispute could fetch him more votes. However, there are two factions in MES. The other faction has fielded four candidates to nibble at Kinekar’s support.
 
