NEW DELHI: Sending a strong political signal to the   (AAP) government, the central government said it would go ahead with the construction of Phase IV of the Delhi   rail network and the Delhi-Meerut high-speed urban rail link on its own. 

  "We are finding a solution. The solution is that where we are not getting support from the Delhi government over the Metro projects, we have decided that we will do it ourselves. Rapid rail corridors, we will do on our own... if they (Delhi government) are not willing to approve a project or not willing to provide funding, we are finding out the solution for it," Puri said. 
 
  Puri had earlier said he had urged CM   to send the proposals to the ministry as soon as he could. The Delhi government is yet to give its commitment for Phase IV funding. 
 
 The details of the work plan are yet to be worked out. Sources said that while taking a decision on accelerating work is a priority to meet the growing demand for public transport, there is a risk whether other states may resort to a similar trick to avoid paying their share of funds. "But Delhi is a different case where land is under the central government. Getting post-facto approval is also a possibility," a source said.
 
 Puri had earlier highlighted that the delay in taking a decision was pushing up the cost of the two projects aimed at decongesting the city roads and improving connectivity as well. 
 
 TOI had first reported on February 7 how the Centre had kept “all options open” with regard to the approval of   IV. However, this is not the first time that the Centre has decided to strike out on its own in its effort to improve Delhi’s infrastructure. 
 
 Recently, it started work on building a flyover and an underpass to connect IGI Airport with Vasant Kunj after the Delhi government failed to pay its share for the project. 
 
 After the Delhi government did not respond to repeated appeals from the Centre, the   Rail Corporation had sent a fresh proposal to both central and Delhi governments. It has pushed for beginning work on three of the six proposed corridors.
 
 
 
