KOTA: While   are brooding over ways to double the income of farmers and providing them complete   against calamities, at least three farmers died due to cold in last 20 days in Kota. Hundreds of others have suffered just because of insensitive decision of   during night hours.

 The farmers of the state, despite freezing cold and temperature, being currently supplied electricity for irrigation for 15 days at night and seven days in the morning hours. 
 
 Fifty-year-old Ramkishan Mali, a resident of Bapawar village of Kota district on Saturday morning was found dead in his agriculture field. He had gone on Friday night to his field and allegedly died of the biting cold. 
 
 The farmer is most likely to have died of cardiac arrest due to severe cold at night as he had been working for long hours in the field at night, Dr Shankar Puruswani of community health centre, Sangod told the media. The farmer’s body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem was conducted at CHC, Sangod. Police personnel at Bapawar police station said adding the investigation into the matter is underway under section 174 of CrPC. The family members in the report said the deceased had gone to water the crop on Friday night and while doing work died, he said.
 
 Two other farmers identified as Heera Lal Meghwal (45) of Dabrikala village under Bapawar police station and Lalchand Meghwal (40) of Modak town of Kota district died respectively, on the nights of December 17 and 23 while they were watering the fields.
 
 Faitha Chand Bagla of Kisan   alleged, “The state government is totally insensitive towards the farmers and on the pretext of doubling up the income of farmers is all set to destroy agriculture and farmers in the state.” ‘
 
 He demanded compensation be given to the kin of those who died of cold and calamity in the region. Farmers fail to voice their grievances because they are not united on a platform and lack a leader, he further said.
 
 However, MLA from Ramganjmandi area of Kota district, Chandra Kanta Meghwal defended her party saying, “The government is sensitive to the farmers’ problems but supplying electricity to farmers for irrigation at night hours has been a very long trend and has been there since the Congress rule.” Meghwal added, “The timing of electricity supply for irrigation needs to be changed at least during freezing cold nights of winter season and I have written to the minister and officials concerned to change the timing and look into the matter.” She added that she would raise the matter in the next state assembly session.
 
 
