BHOPAL: The much-awaited geo-mapping report of Shahpura Lake in Bhopal could turn out to be a bombshell. A detailed report submitted before the   (NGT) by Bhopal Municipal Corporation reveals that there are 90 structures — including hospitals, housing colonies and even government offices — within 33 metres of full-tank level of the Lake in alleged violation of Town and Country Planning guidelines.

 A rattled BMC has begun showcausing proprietors of 26 structures, and NGT is likely to hear the case next month. The list of buildings within prohibited limits includes posh bungalows, shops, residential townships, health centres, nursery, temples, staff quarters, a bus stop, nursing homes, and even offices of BMC and MP pollution control board. The survey was carried out by a private firm in partnership with BMC.
 
 Similar laxity by BMC has left in the lurch hundreds of families, who invested in townships on the embankment of   in Kolar area, unaware that they violated Town and Country Planning guidelines.
 
 Among the structures named in the Shahpura report are Pradushan Vibhag, Nagar Nigam office, an ATM, Chitransh Nursery, Silver Cress Colony, Windstor Colony, Love Huts, Eden Garden and Power House. Bansal Hospital does not violate the guidelines though a power house located adjacent to it figures on the list, say sources. 
 
 “We have submitted our list before NGT and the matter is likely to come up for hearing next month,” said BMC counsel Sachin Verma. Harish Gupta, in-charge of BMC’s lake conservation cell, told TOI, “My duty was to conduct a survey and give the report. Detailed door-to-door survey is being carried out by the building planning section.”
 
 Chief city planner Subashis Banerjee told TOI that BMC has shortlisted 26 structures and issued notices to them. “Initially, we have issued showcause notices. After going through their replies we will take necessary action,” Banerjee told TOI. 
 
 NGT had sought objections against the state government’s report and findings on geo-mapping of Shahpura Lake, which hinted at “partial” involvement of illegal constructions inside the green belt.
 
 According to the BMC’s initial report filed with NGT, 8 to 10 properties were found to be partially within 33 metres of the green belt line.
 
 City resident Akash   had filed a petition in 2015, alleging that Shahpura Lake is in the no-construction zone as per the Town and Country Planning guidelines. Ingle alleged that many houses adjacent to the lake are in prohibited territory. Ingle had also informed NGT that despite the stay order passed by the tribunal for maintaining status quo, construction was going on, following which BMC was directed to submit a factual report after deputing an officer to visit the site immediately for inspection. In May 2017, NGT directed BMC to carry out geo-mapping of full-tank limit of Shahpura Lake.
 
 
