MUMBAI: With the ICC Women’s World T20 coming up in November, every match that the Indian team plays now is a preparation for the mega event. They beat South Africa 3-1 in the recently concluded five-match T20I series in the Rainbow Nation, but come Thursday, they have nothing short of an uphill task.

 
 
 
 
 
 Harmanpreet Kaur & Co face the World No. 1 team Australia in the opening match of the T20I tri-series at the Brabourne Stadium on Thursday. Also featuring in the series are current ODI World Champions England, who beat India in a dramatic final of the tournament last year.
 
 If that wasn’t enough, India suffered an embarrassing 3-0 whitewash at the hands of Australia in their ODI series which concluded in Vadodara on Sunday. Sure, the hosts will want to show gumption in their quest to bounce back from that trouncing, but getting better in all three departments — bowling, batting and fielding — may take them some time.
 
 During their training session on Wednesday, you could sense that the team was working on its fielding. ODI skipper   and batter  , in particular, were seen participating in fielding drills for at least 45 minutes of their two-hour long training session.
 
 India received a shot in the arm with veteran bowler   being declared fit for the tournament. She had suffered a heel injury in South Africa and had to leave the tour halfway, but the pace at which she was bowling during training showed that she had clearly overcome her injury. The bowling department suffered against Australia and Goswami’s presence should bring in some stability.
 
 With the pitch looking likely to assist batting, it’ll be a good opportunity for the batters to get some runs under their belt. Mandhana scored consecutive half-centuries against Australia and she will be looking to continue her good run while Kaur and Raj seek to make amends for their disappointing show in the ODIs.
 
 What’s exciting, though, is the potential of the young brigade. Pooja Vastrakar scored a crucial 51 batting at No. 9 in the first ODI and then, there’s Veda Krishnamurthy who can slug it out too. Young Mumbai girl Jemimah Rodrigues also demonstrated what she is capable of while scoring a brisk 42 after being asked to open in the third and final ODI. However, it’s left to be seen if she’ll continue to open the batting.
 
 The Aussies, on the other hand, will be focused on resuming from where they left off. Skipper Meg Lanning scored just 75 in her three innings in Vadodara and will look to convert her starts into big scores. Wicketkeeper Alyssa Healy, who scored a magnificent 133 in the final ODI, also poses a big threat. India struggled against spin in Vadodara with left-arm spinner Jess Jonassen being the pick of the bowlers, taking eight wickets in three games. Amanda-Jade Wellington and Ashleigh Gardner too are in good form and India will have to tackle them carefully.
 
 After the high of reaching the World Cup final last year, the joy of beating South Africa at home and the disappointment of losing to Australia, this tri-series will be a litmus test for the national team.
 
 
