COIMBATORE: Rural and municipal administration minister S P Velumani on Wednesday said talks were on with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and the German development agency   für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) to implement the metro rail project in the city. 

 According to sources, the first phase of the metro rail project, the feasibility study of which is yet to be carried out, is likely to be commenced on  , where a flyover is also coming up.
 
 “Work on Avinashi Road flyover and metro rail project will be taken up simultaneously and the work on one will not affect the other,” Velumani said when asked how both projects would be implemented on the same stretch.
 
 The minister, who inspected the soil testing work for Avinashi Road flyover here, said the state government has allotted Rs 950 crore for flyover construction and sanctioned another Rs 65 lakh for the soil testing process. “We will allot more funds as and when required,” he added.Velumani also confirmed that the design of Ukkadam flyover had been altered as it was impossible to carry out works until   junction where L&T has received an extension to run its toll plaza till October this year.
 
 The plan was to end the flyover at Athupalam junction. Now, it would be constructed only until Karumbbukadai junction.
 
 “We will start the work and later get permission to extend the flyover,” he told reporters here. TOI had on Wednesday reported the highways department’s decision to change the design of Ukkadam flyover and the activists’ concern that the project in the present shape would serve no purpose.
 
 According to highways officials, tenders for the project had been floated and they would be opened on February 5. “The project will go on for two-and-a-half years and we are hopeful of receiving no-objection certificate (NOC) to extend the flyover till Athupalam junction before that,” an official said.
 
 Meanwhile, city-based industrialists and activists expressed concern and said the highways department should delay the project and start work only after receiving NOC from the Union ministry of road and highways. “Constructing the flyover until   and later expanding it will serve no purpose. It will be a waste of money. We will hold a meeting with the highways department regarding this,” said a city-based industrialist.
 
 The state government has allotted Rs 121.82 crore for the construction of four-lane flyover, which would be 1.7km long. It has also sanctioned Rs 88.61 crore for land acquisition as 18,526.97sqm private land and 13,291.75sqm government land are required to be acquired for the project. The flyover would have two grade separators to link Ukkadam junction to Perur bypass road and Sungam bypass road.
 
 
