NEW DELHI: He claimed to be a doctor, but wasn't, his father claimed to be a commander in the  , but that too turned out to be a lie. The man,  , turned out to be the worst nightmare for a dentist in   who had married him after being taken with his profile on a matrimony website. The woman got to know the truth about her husband in the subsequent months but by then she had already been duped of around Rs 70 lakh and had given birth to a boy. 

 
 DCP (west) Vijay Kumar said that the dentist had complained to the police about Kaul and a probe was initiated against him. 
 
 Unable to wriggle out of it, Kaul decided to kill his wife. Armed with a semi-automatic pistol, he went to her clinic at Mansarovar Garden, near Kirti Nagar, on Friday afternoon. Sensing trouble, the dentist's colleague engaged him in a conversation while SHO Kirti Nagar, Anil Sharma, was informed.
 
  Sharma quickly ordered every police team in the area to swing into action and block the roads out of the clinic and challenged Kaul when he stepped out of the clinic. Finding his escape routes blocked, Kaul tried to fire at a cop but the pistol jammed. He then tried to run through the crowded market, but was chased and caught by the police team. "He had not only impersonated as a doctor to his wife, but had cheated several people by faking bank documents. He had come to know that his wife had dug up his details and presented them to police due to which he decided to eliminate her," said DCP Kumar. 
 
  In her complaint, the woman told the cops that she had met Kaul on a matrimony website in May 2015 and was impressed by his profile. "He claimed to have an MBBS degree from a foreign university, spoke English with an accent and arrived in a luxury car to meet her for the first time," the woman told the cops. They met a few times and the wedding was fixed later that year. The 47-year-old con artist used to wear a wig to pass off as a 25-year-old. The wig came off during a scuffle with the cops on Friday. 
 
  The woman told the cops that Kaul's father had forced her parents to pay Rs 20 lakh as dowry. However, Kaul started demanding more money after they were married, she claimed, adding that Kaul's father Rajender Pal had also sexually assaulted her twice when she had refused. 
 
 She said she came to know her husband's real name was   only after she had borne a baby. She also found that there were cheating cases lodged against him in Delhi, Chandigarh, Goa and Maharashtra.
 
 The woman told the cops that after their child was born, the father-son duo had started demanding more money from her parents after which she approached police and registered a case of assault, dowry harassment, molestation and breach of contract.
 
 She had moved with her son to her parents' house. Police say Kaul had tried to threaten her colleagues at the clinic in a bid to get her to withdraw the complaint against him and his father.
 
 
