Travel aficionados do all kinds of things to gratify their adventurous spirit. After living in floating tents on water, suspended cocoons from a tree, a rustic village and even a machaan on the city’s outskirts, Mumbai now has more to offer to travel aficionados. But this one is different alright! A   dweller from Khar has opened up his home to foreign  , for a slum  . Meant to be an experiential stay, it helps one gain a better perspective of slum life, a concept that shows the City of Dreams in a new light. Here’s more on the only ‘basti’ living experience, through a 12x6 room, right in the midst of the concrete jungle…

 
 
 
  
  
 
 Should you head to the   in Khar (East) and ask for the Tonia house, a bunch of kids will immediately point out the ‘house’ to you.   Sansi, along with his family of 16 members, has created a homestay arrangement in their little space, which is clearly a hit. A room has been kept to accomodate guests. Located on the first floor, it has a mattress, a flat screen television as well as an air-conditioner. “Ever since we started this, I have got so many calls from people wanting to try it,” says Ravi. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The idea for this was proposed by  , a native of Netherlands, who supervises the NGO where Ravi works. One day, on an invitation to Ravi’s home, he experienced their hospitality first-hand. This prompted the idea of a slum homestay, which would not only allow tourists to get the opportunity to stay in with them, but also help the family earn a living. Says David, “This is not just a one-off opportunity for people. It is meant to bring them to realise how people work hard and struggle. It also can help slum dwellers financially.” 
 For Ravi, whose business of selling maps was affected with the arrival of GPS navigation system, he found a new source to earn a living. The family charges `2000 per night to allow the tourists to stay at their home.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 While visiting a slum in Mumbai via   offers only a fleeting look of the place, such a slum stay allows a tourist to stay and interact with as many local residents as he or she likes. The city’s slum tour operators think this is a great idea and needs to be replicated. Says Sailesh Jethva, who has been conducting slum tours in the city, “Mumbai has approximately 2,000 slums, all of which benefit from something like this.   is another example, where this concept can take root. It will support local families and help increase their incomes. Besides, the concept of homestay is different from a tour — it offers more than just an hour or two in a slum, taking a selfie and moving on.” 
 Rahul Devaliya, another slum tour operator who takes tourists to Dharavi, feels this concept was meant to happen. “The idea is a hit already. Foreigners love to take the Dharavi tour — they like to see for themselves how plastic and aluminium recycling takes place there, how people stay, the vegetable market inside and so on. They also love to visit the leather factory here.” 
 He credits Danny Boyle’s, ' ' for triggering off an interest in slums among foreigners. “It was 'Slumdog Millionaire' that changed people’s perception of slums in Mumbai and brought them into focus. A few years ago, when we started slum tours, we had just a handful of people signing up for it, but the idea is quite huge now. From October to date, we’ve had 200-250 tourists doing the slum tour every day. There’s a slump during the rains, otherwise the tour is packed all through the year. It would be a good idea to include the new homestay on our itinerary, too,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
