JAIPUR: The state police’s Special Operations Group ( ) on Wednesday claimed to foil a major heist after it arrested seven notorious criminal plotting to rob a gold finance company in   area of the city.

 The SOG officials said that one of their teams had learnt about some suspects in the city gathering ammunition, weapons and other logistics to make staggering loot at Muthoot Finance Company located in Jhotwara.
 
 Acting on intelligence inputs, a team of SOG raided a hideout and arrested seven accused identified as Vikas Singh (34), a resident of Churu; Upendra Singh (19) of, JhunJhunu; Dharamveer Singh (28), also a native of Jhunhunu; Raj Kumar (34) of Rohtak, Kuldeep Sharma (29), a resident of Pilani, Somveer (34) and Sunil Singh (23).
 
 The SOG said that they arrested the gang from Nivaru Road area and recovered two illegal pistols and nine cartridges. Two empty shells were also found from their possession. 
 
 The investigators told TOI that Vikas and Upendra had incurred a loss of Rs 5 lakh in illegal betting. “With an aim to replenish their finances and pay the mounting debt, the duo decided to rob a gold finance company,” an official said.
 
 The sources told TOI that two suspects Kuldeep and Dharamveer had earlier worked with the Muthoot branch in Rajasthan and were roped in by the accused to hatch a formidable conspiracy. 
 
 The SOG has learnt that both Somveer and Raj Kumar were hardcore criminals from Haryana and had been involved in serious offences including murder and  . “Somveer’s parents were killed by a rival faction in Haryana, since then both sides have been nursing vengeance against each other. Their rivalry has seen at least 19 murders between the two factions,” said an official, adding that the initial investigation indicates that the duo had been evading arrest after they were found to be involved in the murder case of Anand Pahalwan in Haryana. The police said that both Somveer and Raj Kumar are noted history-sheeters with total 20 cases pending against them at different police stations of Haryana.
 
 
