RAW after Wrestlemania 34 was full surprises and as expected there were a few NXT call-ups and big returns.

 
 
 
 
 Stephanie McMahon tried to extend an olive branch to Ronda Rousey after suffering a defeat at Wrestlemania 34, calling Rousey her friend, but the former UFC champ was taking none of it and made a big statement attacking McMahon’s injured arm. 
 
 
 
 The new RAW women’s champion Nia Jax was joined by the former NXT champion Ember Moon, who lost her title to Shayna Baszler at NXt TakeOver New Orleans, and notched up a win with the Eclipse on Alexa Bliss. 
 
 
 
 
 NXT’s No Way Jose made his main roster debut picking up a win in a squash match. 
 
 
 
 
 After Braun Strowman and Nicolas relinquished the RAW tag team title citing Nicolas’ conflicting schedule, RAW GM Kurt Angle handed four tag teams the opportunity to face The Bar - Sheamus and Cesaro - at The Greatest Royal Rumble for the title. The Revival def. Luke Gallows & Karl Anderson in the Tag Team Eliminator Match. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Citing medical reasons, Paige made the difficult decision to retire from in-ring competition during the April 9 edition of Monday Night Raw after four years in  . 
 
 
 
 
 Since his departure from WWE in 2008, Lashley made his return 10 years later and made his presence felt, attacking Elias. 
 
 
 
 The last of the NXT call-up were the dominant tag team of The Authors of Pain - Akam and Rezar. They squashed Heath Slater and Rhyno, before dumping their manager Paul Ellering. 
 
 
 
 
 Roman Reigns confronted the crowd after loss to   and said that at The Great Royal Rumble he will beat Lesnar for the WWE Universal Championship. He was interrupted by a returning Samoa Joe and he announced that they both will beat at WWE Backlash. 
 
 
 
 
 The team that will face The Revival for a spot at The Greatest Royal Rumble were “Woken” Matt Hardy & Bray Wyatt as they defeated Titus Worldwide - Titus O’Neal and Apollo Crews. 
 
 
 
 
 Owens and Sami arrived to Raw suited up and hat in hand to ask Kurt Angle for a job on Team Red, were told they’d have to fight it out for the sole roster slot The Olympic Hero had to offer, and no clear winner emerged.
 
 
 
 
 
