MUMBAI: Intensivists across hospitals and ICUs, who deal with the daily predicament of breaking the ‘bad news’ to kin at least 10-15% of patients, say guidelines for implementation must follow without delay. Often they are in a dilemma over withdrawal of treatment, ventilator, medicines and financial constraints of relatives stranded outside ICUs.

 Members of this specialization said effective implementation of a living will or passive euthanasia would depend on removing some crucial ambiguities. “The first step would for the medical board to find some uniform yardstick on how to define terminal illness or when do we say it’s futile to treat. The law will understandably put the onus on the board,” said Dr Abdul Samad  , head of critical care at Nanavati Hospital. He said the road ahead is for the concept of dying with dignity to percolate down the minds of the treating physician, the public at large and legal authorities.
 
 In a country where cost of medical treatment often drives big decisions, having checks and balances is key, a cancer surgeon said. “Often we have children bringing parents to hospitals in not-so terminal a condition. But as their condition deteriorates and treatment gets prolonged, money concerns come in. It’s key to define parameters of who can be called terminally ill,” he said. Dr Ansari added that who can write a living will must also be made clear. “What if we have a situation where a 25-year-old makes a will and then meets with some trauma? Should we not put him/her on ventilator or try to save a life?” he asked, adding such a decision shouldn’t be used as a tool to cut down the cost where health insurance is a problem.
 
 Doctors at   called the timing of judgement right as there is demand from patients for such a provision. Dean Dr   said, “On Thursday, an 85-year-old with advanced cancer told us he didn’t want to be treated. We had to respect his wish.” He said the city’s busiest civic hospital gets at least one or two requests every day where the family doesn’t want to push their loved one into ventilator or in an ICU or strap them to tubes.
 
 Doctors said with time, apprehensions would go. “Take the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. People were worried about rampant abortions but it only allowed more women to avail of services under qualified doctors,” said Dr  , secretary of The Society for the Right to Die with Dignity (SRDD). Dr Supe said people will embrace it like they did organ donation laws.
 
