CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court has issued a notice to the Haryana Public Service Commission ( ) secretary on a contempt of court petition. The commission has been accused of permitting the candidates possessing postgraduate degrees in public administration for the post of assistant professor of political science despite a stay order.

 Justice Jaswant Singh passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Om Prakash  , a resident of Rohtak, seeking directions to initiate contempt of court proceedings against HPSC for defiance of the high court’s orders.
 
 “Result for appointment to the post of assistant professor (political science) is placed on record to support the plea that candidates possessing PG degrees in public administration have been permitted to compete for the post in violation of the interim order passed by HC on July 12, 2017,” observed Justice Singh, while issuing notice to HPSC. Wadhwa had provided details of such candidates.
 
 The matter would now come up for hearing on March 22.
 
 The main case had reached the high court in July 2017 in the wake of a petition filed by Wadhwa, a 62-years old retired academic from Rohtak, several students and scholars of the subjects of political science and public administration.
 
 The petitioners had sought directions not to consider the applicants having a master’s degree in political science against the posts declared for the subject of public administration and vice versa. They told the HC that they are aggrieved from the decision of HPSC, which is recruiting agency for the post of assistant professors for the higher education department, allowing such candidates.
 
 The petitioners had also referred to several documents, received through RTI from various universities, the University Grant Commission and government departments, in which the authorities have clarified that both the subjects are independent of each other and cannot be treated as same for the recruitment. On February 16, 2016, HPSC had advertised to recruit on 44 posts of assistant professor in political science and eight posts on public administration.
 
 Hearing the plea, Justice  , in his July 2017 orders, had restrained the secretary and ordered the HPSC, “Not to make any selection/appointment on the posts of assistant professor both in public administration and political science by considering identical qualification except the one in the relevant subjects.” The main issue is yet to be decided by the HC.
 
 
