PUNE : The civic administration has completed 30% work of the   bridge and is confident of it being ready by July.

 “The ongoing work in the riverbed will be over before May as we will not be allowed to carry out any work in the riverbed during the monsoon. Hence, the work pertaining to construction of piers and girders will have to be done in the next four to five months. Considering the current pace of work, we are hopeful of completing it by May-end as there are no major obstructions that could lead to delays,” civic officials said.
 
 The work on the new structure, which runs parallel to the old Dengle bridge, had slowed down in the last few months due to the obstruction of a drainage trunk line going across   river. 
 
 “During the construction of the piers, it was realized that a main trunk line was obstructing the work and needed to be shifted from its existing location. The relocating of drainage line was completed recently,” the officials said.
  
  
 The need for the parallel facility was realized after the existing   proved insufficient to cater to the increased vehicular movement. “The new bridge will help streamline the traffic in   and the civic court area,” the officials added.
 
 The administration said adequate funds are available with the civic body to ensure that the work continues without any delay. The project had received lesser allocation of funds in the budget. “However, more funds have been sanctioned by diversion of funds from other projects to ensure completion of the bridge within the deadline,” the officials said.
 
 They said all temporary structures at the site will be removed from the riverbed at the time of completion of the civic work. The new bridge will be 162 metre in length and 24 metre in width. It will have four piers, five spans and two carriageways of 7.5 metre width. It will be built at a cost of Rs 20 crore.
 
 The construction of the new construction was taken up after regular commuters made persistent demand for an additional facility to cross the river. A concern was also raised by the elected representatives as the existing bridge was too old and there was an urgent need to disperse traffic.
 
 The existing bridge was constructed in 1970 and was initially being used by light vehicles. In the last few years, traffic on the bridge increased significantly after heavy vehicles were allowed to ply on the bridge to reduce traffic load on the bridge located near the College of Engineering Pune. “The bridge, however, cannot bear the weight of these vehicles since it was never made to handle that kind of traffic flow,” a group of elected members had said while demanding a ban on the movement of heavy vehicles on the bridge in October 2015.
 
 A civil structural consultant had studied the bridge and submitted a report on its capacity. According to the report, the bridge had a low footing thickness, thereby posing a threat to the users. Accordingly, the consultant recommended that heavy vehicles should be banned on the bridge.
 
 After inspecting the bridge, a team comprising   officials and elected members decided to either repair the structure or build a new bridge as its replacement. 
 
 Located near Kumbharwada, the old bridge is used by a large number of private vehicles and PMPML buses. It connects Pune station, Kasba Peth, Pune Municipal Corporation and   areas. The bridge is a major link as it provides direct access to the district court. “Once the new structure is open to traffic, it will bring a huge respite to daily commuters since the traffic in the area has increased manifold,” regular commuters and the locals said.
 
 
