NEW DELHI: Urging the opposition parties to rise above petty politics and find a solution to problems arising out of the ongoing  ,   Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday invited Delhi BJP chief   and DPCC president   for an all-party meet at his residence at noon on Tuesday.

 This move comes a day after Kejriwal wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking introduction of a Bill in Parliament to usher in changes to the law to stop the sealing drive. He also wrote to Congress president Rahul Gandhi urging him to raise the issue in Parliament and insist that the central government enact a law in the current session of Lok Sabha. Kejriwal has also sought an appointment from both the PM and Rahul Gandhi.
 
 The three municipal corporations have sealed a large number of commercial establishments for failing to pay land use conversion charges and violations of Delhi Master Plan 2021 on the directions of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee. The sealing exercise, Kejriwal claims, has rendered many people working at these shops unemployed.
 
 The three main political parties in the city have engaged in blame game ever since the sealing drive kicked off. The chief minister ultimately announced in a public meeting that he will go on hunger strike if the sealing did not stop by March 31.
 
 “I believe that being a former Union urban development minister you can give good and practical suggestions. I promise that my government and party will extend all possible support to stop sealing and get the shops de-sealed,” Kejriwal wrote to Maken.
 
 Maken has shown his keenness in attending the meeting called by Kejriwal and appreciated his invite to BJP, which is ruling the three civic bodies. Tiwari is currently abroad and is likely to return on March 15. Delhi BJP has decided not to attend the meeting.
 
 Leader of opposition in Delhi assembly,  , termed the invite “a new drama by Kejriwal.” “I advise everybody who goes to meet the CM to wear a helmet in the wake of the (alleged) attack on chief secretary  ,” Gupta said.
 
 Claiming that the CM was not serious about finding a solution, Gupta said, “Had he been serious about the sealing problem, he would have talked to the BJP delegation that went to his residence in January for a discussion.”
 
 “What steps have been taken by the CM to provide relief to the traders in the past three months? Why didn’t Kejriwal approach the Supreme Court on the issue of sealing?” he asked.
 
 Besides the two opposition parties, AAP functionaries have also been invited for the meeting on Tuesday. Kejriwal has suggested in his letters that not more than three people from each party should attend the meeting so that it can be held smoothly.
 
 
