PHULPUR: Samajwadi Party (SP) on Thursday took out its first joint public rally with   ( ) in poll-bound Phulpur in Allahabad, repeating their grand show of 25 years ago when they had shown similar camaraderie in 1993 to stop BJP’s rise in the wake of the Ram temple movement.

 SP’s candidate in the bypoll, Nagendra Partap Singh Patel, took out an impressive procession in the rural deep of Phulpur’s Phaphamau and Soraon, pockets dominated by Yadavs and the Passi sub-caste of Dalits, with flags sporting BSP’s elephant and SP’s bicycle mounted on a fleet of vehicles ferrying supporters.
 
 Nearly 1,500 BSP supporters stormed into the SP cavalcade, rallying behind the SP candidate and raising slogans about the old friendship between the two regional parties.
 
 “Akhilesh, Mayawati mut ghabrana, tere peechhe saara zamana. Kanshi Ram zindabad, Mulayam Singh zindabad,” the slogans went.
 
 Local SP leaders as well as senior functionaries publicly told the crowd that they were grateful to BSP supremo Mayawati for having taken a decisive step ahead of the 2019 polls.
 
 There were occasions when SP supporters stopped at Dalit homes for tea and food.
 
 “It’s the BJP which brought the caste divide among us. We have never felt the difference between a Yadav and a Dalit,” SP leader Nidhi Yadav, coordinating the campaign in Dalit pockets, said.
 
 While SP and BJP have fielded a Kurmi, Congress has fielded a Brahmin from the constituency which goes to polls along with   on March 11. Of 19 lakh voters, there are 2.5 lakh Kurmis and 3 lakh Dalits, Yadavs and Brahmins each. There are also 2.5 lakh Muslims.
 
 Meanwhile, a rattled Congress made last-minute attempts to allay fears about the growing proximity between the two arch-rivals. The family of Congress candidate  , including his father JN Misra, who was former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi’s personal assistant, spent nearly three hours holding closed-door talks followed by a public address with BSP’s senior Phulpur functionary in Soraon.
 
 While the BSP functionary avoided the microphone, Misra senior reminded Dalit attendees to look at the rejection of the quota demand by former SP chief and UP CM  , and his personal attacks on Mayawati.
 
 Their address created a stir over whether the BSP cadre was still confused about Mayawati’s bypoll truck with SP.
 
