Nagpur: The crucial 146km broad gauge railway link between Nagpur and Chhindwara is expected to be completed during this financial year.

 “We have already started traffic on 34km patch between Chhindwara and Bhandarpur. Now laying of tracks on 112km stretch is remaining. One consignment of rails for it has been loaded. The work was delayed due to non-availability of rails owing to Utkal Express tragedy in August last year in UP,” said Shobhana Bandopadhyaya, the new divisional railway manager (DRM), South East Central Railway (SECR). 
 
 The broad gauge link will give an additional route to move towards north-east directions. Bandopadhyaya told reporters here there were many issues like gradients, earth work, tunnel work and two major viaducts that delayed the work.
 
 To a question on running trains at semi-high speed (160-200kmph) between Nagpur and Bilaspur as announced in railway budget in 2016, she said, “We have submitted an estimate of Rs4,500 crore for the project. However, SECR’s is working on operating trains at 130 kmph and work on 90km section is in progress. We have also changed 20km of track for this.”
 
 Bandopadhyaya said 108km Nagpur-Nagbhid broad gauge conversion project had not been shelved. Maharashtra government has already announced to give 50% share of the project. Decision to convert Nagpur-Nagbhid narrow gauge to broad was announced in 2013-14 railway budget at an estimated cost of Rs401 crore. The project was to go ahead with necessary approvals.
 
 In 2013, the state had agreed to share Rs188.11 crore of the tentative cost of Rs376.21 crore. However, as per the Railway Board's advice, the abstract cost of the project went up to Rs708.11 crore based on project's terms of reference (TOR), which included additional cost of gradients, bridges, signalling, mechanical, electrification etc
 
 Chief engineer (construction) AK Pandey said, “The project is pending with the Niti Aayog. Its cost has escalated to Rs1,293 crore with electrification.” However, previous DRMs had pegged the project cost at Rs708 crore including electrification.
 
 On punctuality of trains, senior divisional commercial officer (SrDCM) Ashutosh Shrivastava said, “There is no deliberate attempt to delay passenger trains. Priority is given to passengers over goods trains. Some delay may be due to blocks for technical works. Doubling of Kalamna-Nagpur has certainly has helped with an additional path.”
 
 
