Ahmedabad: Several exporters across Gujarat in various industries such as chemicals, ceramics, textiles and pharmaceuticals, among others are yet to get refunds of Integrated Goods and Services Tax (IGST). Estimates by Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industries (GCCI) indicate that exporters are yet to receive IGST refunds to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore.

 “IGST refunds to the tune of Rs 10,000 crore are pending for processing. There are several issues including discrepancies in invoice and errors in the returns that had been filed so far which are leading to non-processing of refunds,” said Shailesh Patwari, president, GCCI.
 
 Of the total refunds that are yet to be processed, ceramic exporters alone claim that refunds to the tune of Rs 600 crore are pending to be processed. “Refunds to the tune of Rs 600 crore ranging from Rs 7 lakh to Rs 7 crore are pending for exporters. This is leading to a working capital crunch among exporters and in turn, impacting their order books,” said KG Kundariya, president, Morbi Ceramics Association.
 
 Meanwhile, pending refunds is an issue that is plaguing textile exporters as well. “Pending refunds is an issue that continues to have adverse impact on the industry, as it blocks working capital. Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) are often in a fix as a result and are forced to seek bank loans to meet capital needs. With the recent surfacing of banking scams, banks have also made their norms much more stringent when it comes to loan disbursals, which is an issue with financial year-end nearing,” said Nitin Thakker, a city-based textile manufacturer.
 
 Meanwhile, GCCI and the principal customs commissioner have jointly undertaken the initiative to process pending IGST refunds. “From March 15-30, officials of customs department will be available at GCCI along with other regional chambers in Surat and Gandhidham from 10am to 6pm to address issues regarding errors S005/ S006, regarding shipping bill documents and discrepancies. These mistakes will be rectified manually,” said Patwari.
 
 “Estimates indicate that refunds of nearly Rs 2,500 crore would be processed once discrepancies regarding these errors are resolved,” he added.
 
 
