NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: The Centre on Thursday said it had sought a detailed report from the   government on the sequence of events and circumstances leading to the death of 12 persons in police firing in Tuticorin on Tuesday. The communication was sent to the state government even as home minister   expressed grief over the loss of lives and appealed to the people to maintain peace and harmony.

 
 “I am deeply pained at the loss of precious lives during the agitation at   (Tuticorin). The MHA has taken cognisance and sought a report from the state on the prevailing situation. My thoughts are with the bereaved families. I also pray for the speedy recovery of the injured. I appeal to the people there to remain calm and maintain peace and tranquility in the region,” he said in a series of tweets. 
 
 Earlier, the Tamil Nadu CM had tweeted: “If someone is attacked, the natural course would be to defend & safeguard themselves. This is what has been done by the police in response.”
 
 “I will not violate prohibitory orders like (M K) Stalin or Kamal (Haasan) did,” he said. Stalin and MNM leader Haasan have been booked for violating ban orders and visiting the Tuticorin hospital and interacting with reporters.
 
 Claiming that his government was always with the people, the CM said the government was taking all steps to shut down operations at the Sterlite factory in Tuticorin. “When   was chief minister in 2013, the government disconnected the power connection to Sterlite. But the company approached the National Green Tribunal and got a favourable order to get back power connection with some conditions,” he said.
 
 Following this, the government appealed against the NGT order in the  , which is still pending, Palaniswami said. The company filed an application to renew its registration with the   but it was denied. On Thursday, power supply to the company was cut. “The company cannot continue to function without permission from the TNPCB,” the CM said. “We are only following all the steps taken by the government under Jayalalithaa. We have so far held 14 meetings with the protesters since their agitations against the company started,” he added.
 
 Palaniswami said the government is taking all steps through courts to close the plant in Tuticorin. After taking a few questions, the chief minister hurriedly left.
 
 In Tuticorin, monitoring officer and agriculture secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi said the situation was less tense on Thursday compared to the past two days. With Selvasekar (42) of Sawyerpuram dying of injuries sustained in Tuesday’s violence, the death toll has gone up to 13.
 
 Speaking to reporters, Bedi said tension was easing in the town with traffic resuming and some shops functioning. Except for some minor violence, like burning of a couple of two-wheelers, no untoward incident was reported. The new collector, Sandeep Nanduri, and SP Murali Lamba would work closely with other officials to restore normalcy in the district, he said.
 
 Fifteen SPs, four DIGs, four IGs and one ADGP (law and order) have been deployed in the city to restore normalcy and people are urged to cooperate with them, he said. Sixty Tamil Nadu commandos reached Tuticorin on Thursday evening and have been deployed in Anna Nagar, which is one of the most sensitive areas where minor incidents of violence continued to take place. 
 
