KOLKATA: A week after a 15-year-old girl was found bloodied and unconscious in   there was a ray of hope on Thursday. For the first time in a week she told the doctors her name and address. She opened her eyes and looked around. She even responded with a thumbs-up to the doctors when asked how she was feeling. Doctors have also removed the Ryle’s tube and the girl has started taking food orally. Her recovery now gives investigators their first real hope to crack the case.

  
  
 
 “She could identify herself telling us her name and the locality where she belongs to. All these days she would not answer any questions but on Thursday she responded. This definitely has given us a hope,” said Dr  , associate professor of anaesthesiology at   and also the   in charge under whom the girl was admitted.
 
 A senior investigator said, “We had attempted to speak to her before. She wasn’t very coherent and was under trauma. Her recovery now gives us hope that she will be able to lead us to her assailants. We will speak to her once we get the go-ahead from the doctors.”
 
 The badly injured girl was found lying unconscious near an apartment gate in Golf Gardens on the morning of May 4, close to the slum where she lives. She was initially being treated at MR Bangur Hospital and later shifted to SSKM on May 7. Despite the signs of improvement, she remains drowsy, said a doctor.
 
 “She gestured at me with a thumbs-up when I asked how she was feeling, as if it was an indication that she has emerged victorious from a very tough battle. She is in low mood and hence we are not asking her too many questions for now,” said Choudhury who also heads the 11-member medical board that is taking care of the girl.
 
 Doctors started seeing signs of improvement from Wednesday when the girl insisted the nurses that she would put the drop in her eyes on her own. She also told incoherently about the fear of “those people” coming to attack her.
 
 But by Wednesday night, she became more coherent. She sat up on her own and asked for a glass of water to the attending nurses. The Ryle’s tube was removed and she gulped down the glass of water as if she had not had water in a long time. From Thursday, she started taking food on her own.
 
 “She has also opened her eyes. But she sits up and stares blank on the wall. It seems she is bothered by a trauma deep down. We will help her with counselling once she gets a little better,” added Choudhury.
 
 Doctors can confirm if she was drugged once the report of her blood samples comes from the laboratory. Her vaginal swab, blood and urine samples have been sent to the   at Belgachhia.
 
 On Thursday, she underwent a hosts of investigative tests, including a repeat CT scan, USG of the eye and abdomen and X-ray of the injured sites. Doctors found fracture on the left forearm radius bone for which a slab is being put. Though she has regained consciousness to some level, doctors have requested the police not to interrogate her immediately as that might cause more stress. Police too have agreed to wait for the girl to get better.
 
 
