NEW DELHI: At the  ,   has been hoping that her 34-year-old son, an accident victim, will wake up soon. The patient has lost the use of all four limbs and is on ventilator support for several months now. “I am willing to wait for another year to see if my will can just open his eyes and recognise me,” the mother said. She drew no comfort from the   deciding on Friday to allow families, like hers, to withdraw hospital intervention for patients for whom there is no hope of recovery. 

 “Doctors will now be able to freely counsel families on their choices in cases where recovery is not possible. We come across such patients daily,” said Dr Deepak Agarwal, professor of neurgosurgery at AIIMS Trauma Centre. However, there is often a reluctance to give up hope. Avantika, for instance, recalled thinking it wasn’t proper for her uncle to have decided to withdraw her grandmother, diagnosed with end stage cancer and facing imminent multi-organ failure, from hospital.
 
 “My uncle took the call to take her home against medical advice. He wanted my grandmother, who was 84 years old, to breathe her last at home,” said Avantika, a Greater Kailash I resident. “The decision was akin to  , and at the time I wasn’t comfortable with it.” But, she added, “In hindsight, it was a good decision. She died peacefully.”
 
 The two key inputs needed to sustain life for the terminally-ill are ventilator support for respiration and medicines to maintain blood pressure. Passive euthanasia allows the intensity of both to be either reduced or withdrawn to allow life to ebb away.
 
 The thought of ending the life of a beloved, however, continues to deter people. A mother of a quadriplegic 23-year-old girl who has been in a vegetative state for three years at AIIMS Trauma Centre is one of them. “She is our eldest daughter. Her grandfather suffered a stroke when he learnt about her condition and her father isn’t doing well either. But I am here and waiting for the day when she is able to get up. If she dies, we all will die,” the desperate mother said.
 
 Her thoughts resonated in many others. “My son was born with multiple congenital defects. The doctors suggested we should let him go but we couldn’t. He is 11 years old now,” said a Green Park resident, who didn’t want to be identified.
 
  He added that in a country like India where there is no uniformity of health facilities passive euthanasia has to be approached extra carefully.
 
 Dr  , vice-chairperson, critical care at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, said the court decision is a positive step.
 
 He, however, warned against the possibility of its misuse. “Passive euthanasia shouldn’t be allowed just because a family cannot afford treatment. The request has to be examined carefully,” he added.
 
 Given the importance of the decision, Dr Anupam Sibal, medical director at Apollo Hospitals, said passive euthanasia must be examined not by one doctor, but a team, and in consultation with family members.
 
 
