SHIMLA: To set up the first airport in the remote   and   district of Himachal Pradesh, a team of officials from the Union ministry of civil aviation is going to pay a visit in near future to finalise the site for the project, Himachal Pradesh tribal development minister Dr Ram Lal   has confirmed.

 Construction of the airport would be of strategic importance as the district borders China. The proposal has been in the pipeline for 18 years. Now, with this visit, a final decision is expected on the fate of the proposal. 
 
 In Lahaul valley, three sites — Shansha, Shumnam and   — have been shortlisted for the project, while Dankhar, Rangrik and Kibber have been identified in Spiti valley. Now, the central team’s visit will finalise the most suited site for the project. At present, Himachal Pradesh has three airports — at Bhuntar (Kullu), Jubbar Hatti (Shimla) and   (Kangra), but they are not suited for bigger aircrafts. 
 
 According to sources, while China has developed infrastructure on its side, India is yet to privide the required infrastructure, especially to facilitate defence forces. “The construction of an airport in the district will ensure speedy mobilisation of forces,” the sources said.
 
 After coming to power, the BJP government of Himachal Pradesh had sent a proposal to the Centre for the construction of the airport. But the Centre had made it clear that the project would move ahead only if the Union ministry of civil aviation would conduct the survey and clear the site. 
 
 Dr Markanda, who is the   from Lahaul and Spiti, said the Union ministry’s team was expected to conduct a survey of the six sites and then submit a report to the Centre, and the final selection would be made on the basis of that. “The construction of the strategically important Bilaspur-Bhanupalli-Manali-Leh rail line will take time, so the airport in Spiti is a viable option to strengthen defence infrastructure along China border. The airport will also boost tourism activity in Lahaul and Spiti, and Kinnaur,” he said.
 
 LONG AWAITED
 
 In the early 1990s, a proposal was mooted by the state government for building an airport near Rangrik village of Spiti sub-division, with the sole objective of promoting tourism in the area and to provide all-weather air connectivity to tribal areas 
 
 Some land was identified at Rangrik, but the project was put on hold after the first survey of the site around 18 years ago. At that time, it was stated that Rangrik was too high for smooth operation of flights 
 
 Under the 10th Finance Commission, Rs 30 crore was allocated to the state for the construction of airports at Rangrik in Spiti and Banikhet in Chamba district, but the state government in 1998 stated that construction of Rangrik airport had many technical hurdles, so more surveys were needs to be carried out before executing the project
 
 
