The   success has been the talk of the town. The players did a fantastic job on the field but the ones, who also made vital contributions, hardly get a mention. TOI tries to track down the contribution of support staff members of Vidarbha team.

 
 
 When Subroto Bannerjee joined the Vidarbha fold in 2009, Vidarbha didn't have back up pacers. Bannerjee made Vidarbha stock full in his four-year stint. He revived experienced Sandeep Singh's fortunes, while made Shreekant Wagh and Amol Jungade a potent new ball pair. He left Vidarbha to join Jharkhand as a head coach in 2012. He returned to Vidarbha as a chief coach last year and did a fabulous work with young pace bowling attack, with little experience. Rajneesh Gurbani credited his for working in technical aspects. 
 
 
 
 The cricketer-turned-video analyst has been with the   team since 2010-11. He was part of the Vidarbha under-19 Cooch Behar champion team in 2006-07. He left the game and decided to become an analyst. He gels with everyone with his happy-go-lucky nature. Is very helpful and easily approachable. All the players calls him 'Ani' who is always on his toes and helps them with videos and analysis at any time of the day. It's a role that doesn't get noticed.
 
 
 
 The physio had big shoes to fill after Ashish Agrawal's departure. A lot was expected from him and he did not disappoint any of the coaches including Paras Mhambrey and Chandrakant Pandit. He is with the Ranji team since two seasons and became the favorite doctor of the squad. He ensures all the players are fit by match-day. He keeps a close eye on every player and treats him till he achieves match fitness. He has found a good partner in trainer Amiya Mohanti. The duo ably support each other and script the fitness-theory for the team, match by match.
 
 
 
 The former Services cricketer has graduated to Vidarbha Ranji team after serving the Under-22 side for the last two seasons. Having played first-class cricket himself, he knows the pressure and workload on the players. He keeps track of players’ fitness regime and never forces anyone to undergo any drill. He ensures that the player is in the right frame physically and mentally before asking him to take-up any drill. The former Services off-spinner has an arsenal of games for warm-up in order to keep the team happy and fresh.
 
 
 
 The well-known fitness trainer from Vadodara was with the team for three seasons before 2017-18. He is the man behind launching a unique fitness program which is bearing fruit now. The trainer was a go-to man for fitness programmes for the U-16 to Ranji team levels. The players he worked with are now the part of the champion team. He even conducted a program for bowlers. The study revealed how many balls a bowler needs to bowl in nets and when their body gets dehyderated etc. 
 
 
 
 The physiotherapist from Government Medical College, Nagpur, has spent almost a decade working with  , Akshay Wakhare and others. He was part of the support staff at the launch of the residential academy and went on to serve the Ranji team till 2015-16. A lot of players and coaches with whom Agrawal has worked, acknowledges his work and ethics as physio. During his tenure, none of the players in VCA had to undergo any surgery. He was truly the panacea of the team before taking up new job with Chhattisgarh team last season.
 
 
 
 The former Vidarbha pacer turned trainer has been assisting head trainers like Pawar and Mohanty since three years. He has played Ranji Trophy with Wakhare, Fazal and Shrivastava. He is just a call away for anyone. Whenever anyone needs specialized training, one calls him at VCA for training.
 
 
 
 The present under-19 trainer at the VCA academy is a knowledgeable trainer and have a good knowledge about the anatomy. In a camp where more than 25 players are present, Yuvraj has helped in ensuring everyone gets attention.
 
