If you think ‘killer style’ is just a phrase for   done well, you are in for a surprise, as everyday fashion wear can actually be harming your health. Not many are familiar with the name Isadora Duncan. A choreographer and dancer, Duncan met her maker on September 14, 1927, when she went for a drive and her long, flamboyant scarf got caught in her automobile’s back wheel. She has now been framed in the fashion hall of fame courtesy a new illustrated book Killer Fashion: Poisonous Petticoats, Strangulating Scarves and Other Deadly Garments Throughout History by Jennifer Wright. The book details various ways fashion — from clothes and accessories to beauty products — has slayed people. 
 
 
 
 Before you start suspecting your skirt and framing your frocks as murder weapons, the book mostly tracks a time when clothes were made with hazardous material and women corseted themselves in ways that defied science. But even modern everyday clothes and accessories are culpable chic, as Delhi-based orthopaedics & joint replacement specialist Dr Ramneek Mahajan notes: “From a medical standpoint, high heels are literally a walking health hazard, causing problems all the way up the leg and back.” From big bags to tight jeans to high heels, everyday fashion items can harm your health. Presenting, a lineup of top fashion felons.
 
 
 
 In 2014, in the US, it was reported that a 35-year-old woman’s legs went numb because she constantly wore skinny jeans. Skinny jeans can cause a condition called meralgia paresthetica – which basically occurs over time and involves the compression of superficial nerves that supply sensation to the lateral thighs, causing tingling, pain and numbness. In men, tight-fitting jeans can cause urinary tract infections, twisted testicles and bladder weakness. It can also cause low sperm count and fungal infections. In women, skinny jeans can lead to a rise in yeast infections, as it prevents air circulation around the crotch area.
 
 
 
 Mahajan says that walking in heels increases the pressure on the inside of the knee joints. Heels also alter the posture to put extra strain on the lower back, and can lead to bunions and deformities to tendon damage. Wearing high-heeled shoes also shorten the calf muscles. Prolonged wearing can also create varicose veins, as it can gradually wear out the valves and reduce blood supply to the veins. But he says that while regular use of high heels is a bad idea from a health standpoint, they are okay to wear for a limited time. Even flip-flops are no better, as it offers no support to your foot, increasing risk of injury to the feet, ankles, knees and lower back. “It changes the way a person walks, forcing them to grip the sandal with the toes and putting unnecessary strain on a different set of muscles,” he mentions.
 
 Designer Victoria Beckham who had once famously said “I can’t concentrate in flat shoes,” started wearing flats when she faced a very painful case of bunions
 
 
 
 The days of Victorian corsets when women trussed up to reduce two sizes are over. Modern day shapewear may not be as restrictive but it’s no better. Dermatologist Dr Soma Sarkar says that wearing corset over a long period of time can lead to skin bruising and fungal infection. “One has to understand that the skin needs to breathe and so avoid wearing tight clothing for a long period of time,” she says. Pressure clothing can also lead to skin rashes. Tight-fitting accessories increase pressure on the abdomen and stomach and cause a GERD reaction.
 
 
  
 
 
 Excessive use of danglers can harm your ear lobes, as heavy earrings increase the pressure on ear lobes causing them to stretch and even tear. Nowadays, a lot of different kinds of ear supporters are available in the market to address this issue. Also wear nickel-free earrings to avoid allergic reactions or infections.
 
 
  
 
 
 Women love big bags and they cannot lie! But a big bag weighs you down in more ways than one, says Dr Gautam Zaveri, consultant spine surgeon. He advises against loading one big bag as it doesn’t distribute weight equally. “With extra weight on one side, to gain proper balance the body compensates by tilting on the opposite side. Putting extra load will affect the neck, upper back, lower back and muscles around the shoulder girdle,” he says. The ideal weight of a daily bag differs from person to person. Ideally a person should avoid carrying more than 10-15 per cent of the body weight on the shoulders. The bag should have two broad straps and must be worn on both shoulders. Adjust the straps so that the bag does not hang below the waist. The heaviest stuff must be at the bottom. Empty it out regularly.
 
 
 A wrong size of bra is a big blunder. Skimpy and stringy bras put more pressure on your shoulders and back. Also underwires can lead to muscle pain and rashes
 
