KOZHIKODE: The   Council, here, decided to clear 75 per cent of the due pending towards the National Games Authority following the renovation of EMS stadium and construction of grand stand pavilion. The city corporation council, during a council meeting, decided to hand over Rs 1.39 crore to the   immediately.

 Remaining sum of Rs 46 lakh will be handed over to the National Games Authority once they clear the leakage and other issues. Though the National Games Authority claimed to have rectified all flaws, the corporation authorities insisted on conducting a review during the next monsoon to check seepage in the roof.
 
  
 The renovation of Corporation EMS Stadium and construction work of Grand stand pavilion was completed by the National Games Authority and the City Corporation for hosting football matches during the 35th National Games. As per the agreement, the 55 percent of the total expenditure of Rs 21 crore was born by the National Games Authority and 45 percent by the City Corporation.
 
 However, the city corporation had not handed over Rs 1.85 crore of their share citing that they would hand over the sum only after rectifying the flaws in construction. The agenda was passed by the corporation council amidst protest from members of the opposition. The leaders of the opposition opposed the move to handover Rs 1.39 crore and insisted to withhold the amount until detailed inspection at the stadium during the next monsoon.
 
 The council also approved the decision to start five more plastic bailing units in the city corporation limit. The bailing units will come up at Trenching ground,  , Vengeri Market, Kallayi Depot and Eravathu Kunnu. The city corporation council had earlier given nod to hand over the work of five shredding units to  .
 
 
 The shredding unit at West Hill Industrial Estate will be inaugurated by   on February 12. The corporation council decided to speed up the work of shredding and bailing units to address plastic menace in the city limit.
 
