SHIMLA: Taking note of illegal construction activities allegedly going on in the   area, Himachal Pradesh high court has directed the chief secretary to convene a meeting of all the stakeholders engaged in the development of the area and submit an interim or final development plan before the next date of hearing.

 The HC also made it clear that no construction activity shall be allowed to be carried out in the area which is not accordance with the law. It also directed the municipal commissioner and Shimla deputy commissioner to ensure compliance of the same.
 
 “We clarify that ongoing constructions shall be strictly in accordance with the plans duly sanctioned by the authorities concerned,” observed the division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice   in an order on Tuesday.
 
 The HC said no construction of any nature shall be carried out by the Shimla municipal corporation over vacant/green/common area without leave of the court. It said MC commissioner shall file a personal affidavit, disclosing the construction carried out by the corporation and the status and stage thereof.
 
 It also directed the MC commissioner and deputy commissioner to carry out an inspection drive to ascertain as to whether any illegal or unauthorized construction activity is being carried out or not.
 
 “If it is found that any of the premises allotted and meant to be used for residential purposes is used for any other purpose, such illegal activity shall be ordered to be closed forthwith,” the court added.
 
 The court said inspection shall also be carried out to ascertain whether the construction raised is as per the sanctioned plan and within the permissible deviations allowed as per the Municipal regulations/law/bylaws.
 
 The court said the construction, raised in excess of the permissible limit, shall be ordered to be demolished forthwith, in accordance with law. In any event, water and electricity supply to such unauthorized premises shall be disconnected, it added.
 
 The court also directed the HIMUDA to prepare a list of all the vacant areas, including the area earmarked for common purpose/parks and ensure that the same are adequately protected and, if required, cordon off the area, so that, none is in a position to encroach the same in future.
 
 The instant petition was filed on November 18, 2012, alleging violation of municipal laws/bylaws and more particularly development plans prepared by the various authorities under the   and Country Planning Act, 1977.
 
 
