JAIPUR: The junction at   is comparatively smaller than other junctions of the city. However, its problems are relatively bigger. 

 Many pillars of Jaipur Metro and the road curve is creating haphazardness at this major junction. 
 
  
 Commuters coming from  , Hawa Sadak,   road are often confused at this junction as many cannot see the traffic lights due to the curve and pillars. 
 
 Jyoti Yadav, a resident, who travels from Vaishali Nagar to   everyday, says, “During the peak hours, traffic congestion at this junction increased manifolds. Due to the curve, people cannot see the traffic signal. They often jump the red light, as a result, they get into conflict with commuters who are coming from another end, when their green signal is on.”
 
 The recently constructed missing link, which takes commuters to Ram Nagar Metro Station from   has added woes at this junction. After constructing this Ram Nagar metro station road , traffic from four roads meets at this junction. However, unlike, the other junctions, commuters cannot see the traffic coming from other directions due to pillar and junction.
 
 “This is the most dangerous junction. It’s a blind turn as commuters cannot see who is coming from other junction. Possibilities of accidents are higher as heavy traffic flows from Ajmer Road and Hawa Sadak.”
 
 Residents and shopkeepers in the area also suggested that traffic police should disallow sharp U-turns at Sodala to minimise confusion and streamline vehicular traffic.
 
 U-turns right under the elevated road at Ajmer road on this junction are increasing the possibilities of accidents. Vehicles coming from four directions are converging at the junction. Many accidents have been reported on this junction when drivers and riders were taking long U-turns.
 
 “Cars, wishing to take a U-turn should not be allowed on this blind turn. If one driver is coming in speed and finds a car taking U-turn, it is bound to cause an accident, and definitely a fatal one,” said Durga Das, a nearby residents. 
 
 As Sodala is one of the oldest markets of the city, many shops including flower sellers and kiosks are causing congesting right at the junction. “People park their vehicles haphazardly to purchase goods. This create chaos at the junction, which is over-crowded and mismanaged,” added Barkha Sharma, another commuter. 
 
 
