CHENNAI: The   wage agreement will be signed on Thursday with most of the workers’ unions agreeing to an uniform fitment formula of 2.57. This will work out to a wage hike of 14.25% and brings to an end protracted talks between the   management and several workers’ unions. 

 A total of 80,000 employees in TNEB, Tangedco and   will get a hike of 14.25% from their present salaries. While the state transport department is yet to decide on the fitment factor, power minister P Thangamani and the TNEB management were able to convince unions to accept the new wage formula. 
 
 Negotiations began nearly six months ago. “From the beginning, the unions insisted on 2.57 as the fitment factor. After arguing for a lower factor, the TNEB management conceded to the 2.57 factor. Then began the negotiations for fixing salaries and all the issues were finalised. On Thursday, we will sign the agreement,” said a senior TNEB official, seeking anonymity. 
 
 With backing from the   government, the TNEB declined to lower the fitment factor despite the finance department seeking to lower it. As per the agreement, the pay and grade pay drawn by the employees as on January 1, 2016 will be taken for calculating the increase. “The pay drawn on January 1, 2016 will be multiplied by a factor of 2.57 and the monetary benefit (raised pay hike) will be effective from October 1, 2017,” said the official. 
 
 The dearness allowance (DA) which is 125% of the basic pay as on January 1 will be merged with the basic pay. “After merging the DA with basic pay, the future DA will be given to the board employees at the same rate and around the same time as the other government employees,” the official said. 
 
 The TNEB management has also agreed to revise the HRA, CCA, special pay and other allowances. “The existing rates of house rent allowance, city compensatory allowance, special pay and other perks will be revised on a par with that of government employees. We expect all the employees’ unions to sign the agreement,” he said. 
 
 The management will deposit the interim relief of Rs 2,500 for all employees and Rs 1,250 for retired employees. “After the final agreement is signed, we will deduct the interim relief and then calculate the final financial benefit for all employees,” he said. 
 
 Barring   and a few other employee unions which went on strike from February 16, all other unions are expected to sign the agreement. 
 
 
