THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The curious case of   continues to haunt the engineering and town planning wing even in the   report for 2016-17.

 While the officials are hardly enthused over the liabilities being charged for various works in the audit report, the lapses being pointed out in storage of files and producing documents have added more fuel to growing allegations of graft and irregularities in engineering and town planning department. 
 
 The audit has mainly cited lack of documents with regard to building permits and files for regularisation of unauthorised constructions. The lapses have been reported in main office and zonal offices. As per section 12 of Kerala Municipality (Manner of Inspection and Audit System) Rules, 1997, the secretary shall submit all the records, registers and accounts required in writing by the auditor. If the secretary fails to submit any records or accounts, it shall be deemed that such record or account is not in existence and may arrive at a conclusion accordingly. 
 
 The secretary and the employees concerned shall have the responsibility for removing the references that may occur in the audit report regarding the objection or disallowance of expenditure that may be brought to notice at the time of audit, by producing records, if available, at the time of audit itself. 
 
 The audit report mentions an instance at Attipra zonal office where 13 files related to regularisation of unauthorised buildings are deemed to be missing. It further adds that no reply was also furnished by the zonal office regarding   documents. 
 
 The officials have also failed to produce documents related to issuance of building permits and regularisation from main office, the report explains in one chapter. It says that audit had issued notice to then secretary and superintending engineer but to no avail. 
 
 In 2015 when a school building had collapsed at  , the engineering and town planning wing of city corporation had groped in the dark trying to retrieve the files of a building constructed less than 10 years ago.
 
 Lack of system of having duplicate filing system as in departments like PWD further worsens the situation. 
 
 PWD runs the practice of maintaining duplicate files which ensures that the officials get to maintain files and produce them any time they are required. In 2014, the civic body had come under fire from district administration after it failed to produce blue prints of commercial establishments in city which had altered the original building plan and converted mandatory parking space for other purposes. The building applications are not even sorted based on nature of construction or purpose of building.
 
  had recently made it clear in the meetings that no other person except the official concerned shall be the custodian of files. He had recently withheld files which were produced to him by third parties other than officials. “During this audit, we could submit more than half of the files they asked for. Missing files is certainly a cause of concern. We are taking steps to ensure proper custody of files,” said mayor V K Prasanth.
 
 
