BENGALURU: The tussle between the ruling coalition partners –   and JD (S) – over portfolio allocation continued on Monday, with finance being the major bone of contention, even though chief minister HD   maintained that the issue would be resolved by Tuesday.

 During a three-hour meeting at Ghulam Nabi Azad’s residence in New Delhi, Congress leaders reportedly told Kumaraswamy that it has been the convention in coalition governments in   to allow the junior partner (Congress this time around) to keep the finance portfolio. Faced with this argument, the CM is said to have sought time to consult JD(S) chief and his father HD Deve Gowda.
 
 During the Dharam Singh-led Congress-JD(S) government in 2004, the finance department was with then deputy CM Siddaramaiah, and in 2006 when Kumaraswamy was CM of the JD(S)- BJP coalition, the portfolio was with then deputy CM BS Yeddyurappa. At the meeting, Congress stressed that the formula was based on the model of Maharashtra coalition governments, headed by the late Vilasrao Deshmukh and later, Ashok Chavan. During both governments, the junior partner was given the finance department.
 
 Apart from finance, a few other key portfolios, such as energy, water resources and PWD were also discussed. JD (S) wants to keep these departments as well since HD Revanna, the CM’s brother, is keen on PWD and energy. Congress leader DK Shivakumar, too, is said to be keen on the energy portfolio which he had held in the previous Siddaramaiah government.
 
 “Congress wants all key portfolios, leaving animal husbandry, labour, fisheries, youth services, women and child welfare to us. It is not fair. If this is the case, the issue will not be resolved by Tuesday,” a JD(S) source said.
 
 Addressing reporters after the meeting at Azad’s residence, Kumaraswamy said, “We will resolve the portfolio allocation by Tuesday without causing any dent to the stability of the government. We have been asking for finance. A decision will be taken after Congress leaders consult Rahul Gandhi who is abroad.”
 
 JD(S) secretary general K Danish Ali, who was present at the meeting, said: “Talks with Congress leaders are inconclusive. Kumaraswamy left for Bengaluru, asking me to negotiate with Congress leaders.”
 
 A Congress source said: “Congress leaders Ashok Ghelot, Ahmed Patel, KC Venugopal, Siddaramaiah, G Parameshwara and Shivakumar have made it clear to Kumaraswamy that he has to be fair, considering that he has been given the CM’s post. He has been told that power cannot get concentrated on one side in a coalition set-up.”
 
 Meanwhile, Congress aspirants for a cabinet berth continued to camp in Delhi. “In this tussle over portfolios, the party hasn’t looked into who should be the ministers,” the Congress source said.
 
 
