CHANDIGARH: In what would be a surprise for most, the minimum salary of a   faculty member is Rs 1.5 lakh, excluding yearly allowances. The pay scale of private practitioners in any corporate hospital is lesser or sometimes the same.

 In   and Hospital, Sector 32, and Government Multi-Specialty Hospital, senior doctors earn Rs 2 lakh per month. Also, the Seventh Pay Commission recently entitled Central government employees in the bracket of pay level 14 (which includes a few professors in PGI) and above for air travel in business class for the purpose of  . This means their family members will also travel business class. 
 
  
  
 
 However, with the recent pay commission, which may be the last to make recommendations, PGI doctors are asking for a hike, which will increase their salary by an additional Rs 15,000 per month. Besides, they want a double raise in learning resource allowance from Rs 60,000 per year to Rs 1.8 lakh per year to buy phones and laptops of top brands.
 
 Not satisfied with the calculations of the pay commission, the   has not accepted the new pay matrix. "The government has applied the pay commission of IITs to institutes of national importance like PGI, AIIMS and JIPMER. This is erroneous as IITs have assistants, associates and professors. We have sent several communications to the ministry since the past two years to correct wrong calculations or at least give two increments. But nothing has happened," said Dr  , president, PGI Faculty Association. As per calculations, doctors working in public hospitals spend 84 days (after adjusting winter, summer and conference vacations) in OPDs every year. The time spent in OPDs by private doctors is three times as much. The implication is that each doctor in PGI spends a maximum of three days in OPDs per week, while in a corporate hospital, OPDs are to be run six days a week by each doctor. 
 
 "Salary of government doctors is exceptionally high. It is a myth that those working in private hospitals make a lot of money. Also, we need to work more hours to earn as compared to doctors at   and PGI," said Dr  , an ENT specialist in a private hospital. Doctors on payroll in a private hospital do not get more than Rs 1.5 lakh a month, however, those who are visiting consultants in several hospitals can get up to Rs 8 to Rs 10 lakh per month. "It is not justified to compare our salaries with private doctors. These salaries are given by the government and we have not demanded any enhancement," said Dr Chhabra. 
 
 
