All roads led to the   on Friday, as the Organics and Millets International Fair 2018 kicked off with a bang. People from across the city and all over the state were present in huge numbers to be a part of this event.
 At the venue, curious shoppers hopped from one stall to another, while eager exhibitors answered every query they came across. “It’s great to be a part of an event of this magnitude as it helps promoting millets and a healthy lifestyle. We have had many curious customers, who want to know more about millets and how to include it in their diet,” says  , co-founder of a city-based startup promoting healthy lifestyle.
  The venue was also bursting with  , who wanted to witness the spectacle. “We arrived in Bengaluru on Thursday and got to know about the event. Since we are into healthy eating, we wanted to be here and are loving every minute of it,” said Sabrina Carosi from Canada.
  Exhibitors hope that the fair will not only promote millets and healthy eating in a big way, but will also clear certain misconceptions and myths surrounding millets. “We want people to embrace millets. We want to show them that this grain has been existing over hundreds of years and that it can be modernized. We want them to embrace tradition,” says Abhishek, an exhibitor at event.
  Does that mean that millets can taste delicious, as opposed to the popular notion that it can be bland, we ask? “Absolutely. We also educate people about which   can be used for a particular dish. Millets can taste absolutely delicious and are in no way boring,” says Srivatsa.
  In addition to raw varieties of millets, shoppers can also get a taste of traditional dishes at the venue. You can choose from a range of dishes like millet dosa, vadas, brownies, bisibele bhat, pongal and chocolates, as well other dishes with a rustic touch that are guaranteed to take you back to your childhood.
  If you want to indulge in some shopping, you will be spoilt for choice. One can buy different varieties of millets, ranging from foxtail, kodo, pearl, proso, barnyard and more. You can also buy different kinds of jaggery, rice, pulses and other edible items at the venue, which are all organically produced.
