Mysuru: Apart from its troubles in relocating its campus, the Dr Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University in Mysuru, also appears to be grappling with division in its administrative ranks. CR Himanshu, a senior member in the varsity’s highest decision making body, the   has complained to the state highed education department against both the varsity’s  , and the registrar (evaluation) over the appointment of the varsity’s dean.

 The problem started when the varsity’s V-C   decided to appoint the registrar (evaluation)   as the new dean. However, syndicate members led by Himanshu objected to the appointment on the grounds that Rajesh was not qualified to hold the position.
 
 Himanshu alleged that Rajesh threatened to have me removed from the syndicate if he were to persist in opposing the decisions taken by the V-C. “The university has no full-time faculty. The state government and the University Grants Commission (UGC) have stipulated some minimum qualification for the dean’s post. The V-C Vidushi Sarvamangala is pushing for the registrar’s appointment, though he does not have the qualification for it. This is why I opposed it. Instead of acting in accordance with the law, the registrar shouted at me. So, I have written to the Karnataka minister for higher education Basavaraj Rayareddy, and the department’s principal secretary about the issue,” Himanshu told TOI.
 
 Himanshu also urged the state government to address some of the other problems faced by the university. “The university does not have permanent faculty members. I don’t understand why new posts are being created in such a situation. Streamlining of administration is the need of the hour,” he added.
 
 On the other hand, varsity registrar Rajesh said that the whole controversy revolving around the appointment of a dean was unnecessary. “The statutes clearly state that the V-C is the final authority on appointments and other administrative decisions. Some good work has started at the university after a prolonged delay,” he added.
 
 
