MUMBAI: The   government has spent nearly Rs 4 crore for conducting an inquiry against erstwhile   leader Vijaykumar Gavit, however, it is yet to decide on the action to be taken against Gavit, who is now a   MLA. Gavit has been accused of his alleged involvement in a Rs 6,000-crore scam when he was the tribal development minister between 2004 to 2009. 

 Responding to a PIL, the Bombay high court had directed the state to appoint a committee headed by Justice M G Gaikwad (retired) to probe the scam. Justice Gaikwad was appointed on April 15, 2014 to investigate all major purchases made by the tribal development corporation led by Gavit. After four extensions, Justice Gaikwad submitted a 3,000-page report in May 2017. 
 
 Justice Gaikwad’s report established rampant irregularities in procurement of material for the tribal development department. Gaikwad had recommended to the government to initiate criminal proceedings against erring politicians and bureaucrats. It was expected that the state would scrutinize the report and initiate criminal proceedings against the guilty. Instead the tribal development department led by Vishnu Savara on October 8, 2017, appointed a one-man committee headed by veteran bureaucrat P D Karandikar to scrutinize Justice Gaikwad’s report and recommend action. It was expected that Karandikar would submit his report within six months. With the deadline approaching, Karandikar has expressed his inability to complete the report and sought further an extension of six months,his plea has been accepted. The total cost of the probe will be nearly Rs 4 crore and it will be paid by the Pune-based Tribal Research and Training Institute. “Looking at the trend of granting clean chits to politicians, Gavit too will be granted a clean chit or the report may not see the light of day,” said a BJP leader.
 
 Probe against NCP netas
 
 At the BJP Foundation Day event, public works minister Chandrakant Patil said that several cells in Arthur Jail, where a senior NCP leader has been lodged, are lying vacant and that there was a possibility more NCP leaders could be shifted there. 
 
 Though Patil did not name anyone, his reference was some NCP leaders, who are being investigated for their role in the irrigation scam. Patil probably does not know that while his party has adequate evidence to nail the culprits, so far the investigation agencies have not been able to register a criminal case against them under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The ACB filed a record number of criminal cases in the Nagpur and Thane regions against some contractors, but it was unable to fix responsibility against politicians. Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis had in December 2014 granted permission to the ACB to conduct an open inquiry in the irrigation and Maharashtra Sadan scams, but barring Chhagan Bhujbal it has been unable to establish involvement of other NCP leaders due to lack of evidence. 
 
 The statements of some NCP leaders have been recorded, but the agency could not arrive at a conclusion on whether or not they were involved in the fraud. Senior bureaucrats and IPS officers observed that any further action against NCP leaders will have to be taken carefully, taking into consideration the rules of business vis-à-vis the powers of ministers, otherwise, it will boomrang on the home department led by the CM.
 
 
