GHANDHINAGAR: The   education department issued notices to all   in the state, asking them submit a detailed five-year development   to the   within a month. 

 The state government wants to regulate the haphazard working style of universities, focus on organized development and   the functioning of state-run universities. The state government instructed universities to rank themselves on several criteria, to assess standards of education and placement of students.
 
 Anju Sharma, principal secretary of the higher education department, said, “To plan systematic development of universities in the state, we have instructed all universities to present five-year development roadmaps. We asked for year-wise plans of universities to improve the quality of education, student-teacher ratios, introduce new courses, improve infrastructure, improve the quality of manpower, plan for placements of students etc.”
 
 “The government has instructed universities to rank themselves on 25 to 30 criteria also suggested by the University Grants Commission (UGC). This will not only help universities but also the state government, in planning actions to improve the quality of education by customized interventions for each university. The government is also preparing a state-wide holistic plan to make higher education more competitive. The state government has invited has suggestions on improving the quality of higher education from various stakeholders. The state government is keenly following the new standards set by the UGC and government of India and is trying to provide industry-friendly education so it helps students get better employment. We are focusing on the need for academic excellence as well as industry needs,” she added.
 
 Himanshu Pandya, vice-chancellor of Gujarat University, said, “This move of the state government is aimed at aligning the vision of the state government and universities, because till now there has been no professional approach by universities. Our universities are far behind on the national institute ranking framework ( ), and none of them work with that in mind. If there is a united, planned approach, our universities can improve in these rankings.” 
 
 
