CHANDIGARH: If a car hits your vehicle on an empty road at midnight, don’t stop to argue with the car’s occupants. They can be armed robbers. They can abduct or rob you at gunpoint. The recent cases of robberies and the modus operandi of armed robbers in city suggest that if anybody hit your bike and car, speeding away from the spot is the wisest decision. Once you are out of their sight, dial 100 and inform police about the incident.

 A spurt in  , abductions and car-jacking cases has made the city dangerous for commuters, who are now scared to travel late at night. From December 10, 2017, till Saturday, the city has witnessed 15 cases of car-jacking, abductions and robberies at gunpoint from different parts of city. Armed robbers have adopted the same modus operandi in almost every cases to rob the motorists across the city.
 
 According to the cops, these robbers become active after 12am to 4am and target people who mainly use two-wheelers to return from their jobs at odd hours. If we study their modus operandi, robbers first hit the bike or car from behind and abduct the biker at gunpoint. They take him or her to the nearest ATM kiosk and compel them to withdraw money. After taking money from the victim, they abandon him or her in   or any part of Chandigarh. In cases of carjacking, robbers hit the targeted car. When the driver stops the car to check the damage or argue with the robbers, they point gun to his or her forehead and flee with his or car.
 
 Robbers strike at secluded places, where the movement of motorists and PCR is always very less. They also strike near the exit points of the city, so that they can easily sneak out of the city after committing the crime.
 
 Police have identified   and his gang members behind some of the robberies but failed to arrest them. In January, the crime branch of police arrested Jodha and two others for gunpoint robberies, but Jodha fled from the custody of UT police at Khanna while returning after being produced in court in February.
 
 After the recent carjacking case, Chandigarh SSP   said police have identified the accused in some cases and would arrest them soon. However, since fleeing from police custody, Jodha Singh and his gang members have robbed four persons at gunpoint and police failed to arrest them again. 
 
 Separate cases, similar methods
 
 March 14 |  , a Mohali resident, was abducted by three occupants of another car at gunpoint from the dividing road of Sector 48/49 at 4.30am. The accused first hit his bike. Once Jatinder fell on the ground, they abducted him
 
 February 27 | Restaurant manager Surinder Singh of Nayagaon reported that a car hit his bike after which the miscreants in the car abducted him at gunpoint, robbed him of Rs 10,700 and later dumped him at Kharar
 
 December 17, 2017 | Car-borne miscreants robbed a vehicle-owner of his brand new   car at gunpoint. The accused hit his car from behind and when the driver stepped out of the SUV, the accused fled with SUV after terrifying him by pointing gun
 
 
