NOIDA: After more than four decades, Noida is finally getting ready to say “good riddance” to its garbage. Officials on Friday said that they are in the process of finalizing the terms and conditions for a Request for Proposal (RFP) for appointing a company, which will put into place the long-delayed door-to-door   and disposal project. The   is likely to be floated in the next week, officials said.

 Addressing the long-term demand of residents for a solid waste disposal system to be put into place, Uttar Pradesh Chief Secretary   on a visit to the city had directed Noida Chief   to have a door-to-door garbage collection, its segregation and disposal system in place in the next two months and without any further delay.
 
 Currently, Noida generates a whopping 600 tonnes of municipal waste every day. About 1600 health department workers strive to keep the city clean. With the help of individual RWAs,   has put into place mechanisms to deal with the garbage generated by hiring garbage collectors on contract, who collect and dispose it in a disorganized manner leaving the city littered and in a mess.
 
 According to officials, for the door-to-door project residents will have to segregate their waste into biodegradable and other waste, which is not recyclable. Thereafter, the appointed company will collect the segregated waste. A new concept to treat the waste by stationery mechanized garbage compactors will be introduced. These movable compactors will collect waste from primary collection points and also dispose of the garbage. Every compactor will have the capacity to deal with ten tons of waste.
 
 These compactors—machine or mechanism normally powered by hydraulics and used to reduce the size of waste material or soil through compaction to reduce the volume of trash—will be battery-driven vehicles, which will collect the household waste. With modern technology at work, there will hardly be any scope for environmental pollution, which happens currently with the garbage vats spilling garbage on the city’s streets.
 
