PUNE: More than 30 commuters travelling by a Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd bus on Ahmednagar Road’s Bus Rapid Transit System corridor got the fright of their lives when it burst into flames around 9am on Thursday, a few feet from the Vimannagar corner stand.

 As smoke filled the interior, commuters trapped inside and trying to get off the bus, found one of the automatic doors had got locked. Some passengers, in a state of panic, then jumped out through the windows. 
  
 
 Others, along with the driver and conductor, kicked the door open before the flames could spread any further. The bus was operated by BVG India, one of the five private contractors, associated with the  .
 
 “The left side door of the bus got locked and refused to open. We kicked the door multiple times before it budged. Once it did, all the passengers hastily got out of the vehicle before the fire could spread. No one was injured,” Adinath Andhale, the conductor of the bus, told TOI.
 
 The bus started from Nehrunagar depot in   area at 8am. “Around 9am, I had just crossed the bus stand when I saw smoke billowing from underneath. We knew that it was a fire and I stopped the bus a few feet away from the stand and told all the passengers to get off. The smoke became heavier and it took sometime for the fire to start. However, by then all the passengers had disembarked. There is a fire extinguisher in the bus but we couldn’t use it as there was very little time. We informed the fire brigade,” bus driver   told TOI.
 
 The transport body ferries around 10 lakh people every day. 
 
 The bus which caught fire on Thursday plies is CNG operated. An inquiry into the fire has been ordered and a report is awaited, PMPML public relations officer   said.
 
 Ajay Charthankar, joint managing director of PMPML, said it was cause for concern. “The technical team has to look into it and address it immediately. There are certain problems with the BRTS buses and the corridors and they need to be rectified,” he said.
 
 Another PMPML official said the only solution was going for a safety audit of the buses. “If the door has stayed locked, it would have resulted in a major accident costing lives. The PMPML doesn’t take responsibility for the buses operated by the contractors but all the buses run under the utility. The contractors talk about proper maintenance, but we don’t know for sure whether their buses are being maintained or not. Many buses are old and must be scrapped,” the official told TOI.
 
 
