AHMEDABAD: Alleged   and wanted for masterminding the July  ,  , did everything possible to avoid being caught by intelligence agencies.

 According to sources, Qureshi had put on weight and grew beard to change his appearance.
 
 A Gujarat ATS team has just returned from Delhi after interrogating Qureshi, who was nabbed from Ghazipur area by a special cell of the Delhi police on January 22 after a brief exchange of fire.
 
 “Qureshi, who had allegedly masterminded the July 26, 2008 Ahmedabad serial blasts, which killed 56 and rendered more than 200 injured, was on the run for the past nine years. We were surprised to see the look of Qureshi who had gained a lot of weight,” said an ATS official. According to ATS sources, Qureshi, who had fled to Nepal in 2009, was working in Paradise School as a computer teacher.
 
 “The alleged IM operative along with his job as a teacher, used to deliver inflammatory and radical speeches in a bid to recruit new members in IM,” he added.
 
 ATS sources said after planning the Ahmedabad blasts, he stayed in a rented house in Vatva area of the city. Qureshi left the city on July 16, ten days before 21 bombs went off in the city in a span of 70 minutes.
 
 “Qureshi went to Ranchi and stayed with one of his accomplices, Danish Riaz, in Barigate Basti. From here he shifted to Sherghati in   and stayed with Hasib Raza and Mujeeb Shaikh, who was later killed in an encounter in the outskirts of Bhopal along with seven other alleged IM operatives who had fled from a jail,” added an ATS official.
 
 Raza was later arrested in 2010 from Ahmedabad and Danish Riaz in 2011. They are currently in judicial custody.
 
 Changing his location regularly, Qureshi then shifted to Chapra in Bihar. He was sheltered by one Farkhand Jamal. “Jamal also arranged a job for him as computer teacher in a local madrassa,” the official added.
 
 ATS officials said that after a six-month stay in Chapra, in the end of 2009, Jamal and Hasib Raza helped him board a bus from Raxaul, on the Indo-Nepal border in Bihar. “Since then, Qureshi was staying in Nepal. He also managed a job for himself as a computer teacher in Paradise School,” said a senior ATS official.
 
 In Nepal, Qureshi got made a passport on the basis of fake identity documents and flew thrice to Pakistan and once to Saudi Arabia. “We have information about Qureshi meeting Bhatkal brothers, Riyaz and Iqbal, in Pakistan to revive Indian Mujahideen. We will procure a transfer warrant to bring Qureshi to Ahmedabad as he is the prime accused in the July 2008 serial blasts case,” said a senior crime branch official. 
 
 
