SURI: The death of a 45-year-old political activist on Suri’s outskirts on Monday triggered a diatribe between the Trinamool Congress and BJP with both claiming the victim to be their worker. Later in the day, Trinamool paraded   Khan’s septuagenarian father and widow, who went back on their words earlier in the day to claim that they supported the party since its inception.

 Dildar was shot dead at Karidhya village, barely 3km from Suri, the district headquarters. Witnesses claimed a BJP rally heading towards the Suri Block I BDO office was attacked with bombs. Locals said both the rival party workers were armed with sticks and sharp weapons. BJP alleged miscreants hiding behind the BDO office attacked them. In the ruckus, Dildar was shot dead and another BJP leader Shyamsundar Garai received bullet wounds.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The death prompted local BJP leadership — and later by their state leaders — to claim that Dildar was their party supporter. At 2pm, Touhid Khan, Dildar’s father, with BJP district president   by his side, told reporters, “We are BJP workers. My daughter-in-law, Marium Bibi, went to file nomination for the panchayat samiti. My son Dildar was with her (his sister-inlaw). The Trinamool goons were teasing us but we tried to avoid them. Suddenly they snatched Dildar and shot him. Trinamool gram panchayat pradhan of Karidhya village,  , ordered his men to fire at my son.” Touhid also explained that they were earlier Trinamool supporters but switched flanks to BJP a year ago.
 
 Trinamool leader and state urban development minister   claimed “Dilawar Shiekh” was killed by the BJP’s contract killers. But BJP leader Shamik Bhattacharya claimed that “Dildar Sheikh” was their man and general secretary of the BJP’s state minority morcha.
 
 BJP leaders left the grieving family to fend on their own. Within minutes, Trinamool district president   claimed Dildar was their man. “He is our worker. BJP goons from Jharkhand killed him,” he said. At Nabanna, Hakim said: “We have urged the police to seal the Bengal-Jharkhand border.” At 4pm,   reached the Suri party office with Touhid and Lutfa Bibi, Dilder’s widow. Touhid made a U-turn, saying: “Some people urged me to say that we were BJP supporters and I said so. We are Trinamool workers. We are its members since its inception. My son too was a Trinamool worker.” Anubrata said, “Now hear what the fact is.” Roy said: “This is loot. I have heard that Trinamool workers forcibly hijacked them and whisked them to their office.”
 
