A rising tide lifts all boats. Finance minister   seems to believe in the axiom as he sees a tide in 20018-19, unmindful of the turbulence ahead that may capsize his yacht. The good news is   will grow at 9% for the next year, much faster than India (7.3%), yet the benefits of this growth will not percolate to its people as the state coughs up large chunks of its revenue to fund interest payments and freebies.

 
 The best long-term investment seems to be the 25% increase in allocation for higher education that got Rs 4,620 crore; but spending on school education inched up just 1% to Rs 27,205 crore. Police got a 21% increase in allocation while health got a 14% increase. The freebies took up almost Rs 20,000 crore, the latest a provision of Rs 250 crore for scooters. 
  
 
 With GST in place, the scope for increasing taxes or levies is virtually nil except with respect to petroleum products, liquor and property registrations.The budget presented on Thursday has a bit of everything yet a whole of nothing. With little or no fiscal leeway, Tamil Nadu continues to live beyond its means and, worse, it will do so at least until 2021with amounting revenue deficit.
 
 
 The sugar industry, which is witnessing its worst phase in 32 years, gets a reprieve in the form of a revenue sharing model between mills and cane growers, the third state to implement it after Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh.
 
 
 The state will also go in for direct procurement of cereals, include more services under its e-seva scheme and build an ultra modern food park across 450 acres in Tindivanam. With inbound project investments drying up, the state’s deputy chief minister hoped to reinvigorate the state’s traditional bastions by promising new textile and food processing policies, which he hopes will kick-start job creation. However, much depends on how soon these policies are rolled out. For long the state has been waiting for a new IT policy. The last one was announced eight years ago.
 
 
 
 
 
 Despite the temptation to splurge, the state has pulled back its spending and kept a tight leash on government finances. For one, the fiscal deficit -- the difference between total revenue and total expenditure of the government is termed as fiscal deficit -- for the current year will be sharply lower at 2.82% (against a budgetary provision of 4.14%) and for the next year, it will lower this deficit to 2.79%.
 
 
 But, the rising growth will not benefit the common man on street as the significant portion of   that will accrue will go towards interest, salary and pensions for government staff and funding freebies. The magnitude of this morass is such that 95% of revenue expenditure will go for fulfilling these three heads.
 
 
 The continued unabashed freebie culture will force the state to borrow more, especially when rates are rising, which in turn will result in higher interest payouts in coming years.
 
 
 The government’s vulnerability will be exposed in the absence of sops to the farmers in the form of farm loan waiver, which is the national flavour. The state government missed the bus with no mention of cleaning up of its state owned units. Inefficient state PSUs are sucking away hard earned tax income. “I expected some measures for cleaning up these entities,” said  , chairman, CII-TN. He said that slipping fiscal discipline was worrying.
 
 
 The government’s decision to create additional land banks of 9,030 acres to allot to new investors is a welcome measure as it has become very difficult for investors to buy land in the state. “We feared a steep fall in tax collection due to GST, but the collections are actually up,” S Chandramohan, vice chairman, CII TN, said.
 
 
 Meanwhile, the government will replace 3,000 rickety old buses with new ones, with old sanctions for new buses, the state will replace its 4,593 buses during the next year. It will set up a bio park--Ticel Bio Park in Coimbatore, construct 1.30 lakh houses under hut-free village scheme. It will build 4.37 lakh new toilets allocating Rs 550 crore.
 
 
 It will spend Rs 20 crore to make Veda Nilayam, residence of former chief minister Jayalalithaa into a memorial and Rs 50.80 crore has been earmarked for Jaya's memorial in Marina.
 
