KOCHI: While   with 30,000 vehicle registrations every year tops the state, it is also highly prone to  . Around 300 licences in the district were suspended for mobile phone use during the period from July 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018. Out of this 259 were under the Ernakulam   limit while the rest were in Muvattupuzha. The license is suspended for a period of three months for the offence.

 This number is high when compared to the licence suspension for other traffic offenses in the district. The data shows that as many as 1,201 licences were suspended in the district for causing accidents and 142 for drunken driving from January, 2016 to March, 2018.
 
 Officials said most of the licences suspended for mobile usage while driving, belong to private car drivers. They also come across people speaking over Bluetooth while driving. “The driver who meets with an accident while speaking over phone cannot avail insurance claim. But police usually do not mention it in the report as the family of the victim would be deprived of insurance benefits. Besides, a case is always registered against the driver of the bigger vehicle in case of an accident,” said Ernakulam RTO Reji P Varghese.
 
 Experts said when a person talks on the phone while driving accidents are caused due to ‘inattentional blindness’. “The images a driver sees on the road goes to the brain and he drives the vehicle according to that. But if he is speaking over phone or listening to music, the images he sees on the road will not go to his brain. This is what leads to accidents,” said  , former   joint RTO.
 
 It takes one second to have a glance at the mobile phone when it rings or change the FM station while driving. If the vehicle runs at 60 km per hour and the driver turns to the mobile, it means the vehicle is running at 16.66 metres per second. Anyone can jump in front of the vehicle leading to an accident in that gap,   said.
 
 The best option is to stop the vehicle by the side of the road and attend the mobile.
 
