Midnapore/Kolkata: Retired IPS officer Bharati Ghosh withdrew her petition seeking a CBI probe into CID raids at her residence, springing a surprise in Calcutta High Court. Ghosh’s lawyer submitted in court he had received instruction from his client to withdraw the present writ petition with the liberty to file a fresh one. The court allowed the prayer.

 The development came as an anti-climax to a host of senior police officers, the state advocate general and the additional solicitor general for the eastern region, who made it to court room number 13 on Monday afternoon to oppose Ghosh’s petition. 
 
 State advocate general Kishore Dutta vehemently opposed Ghosh’s prayer for withdrawal of the petition and pleaded with the court to direct the petitioner to file a supplementary affidavit instead. Justice Debangshu Basak held that the court couldn’t hold back the petitioner if she wanted to withdraw her plea. 
 
 Sources close to Ghosh hinted that the retired police officer — accused in the cash-for-gold case — wants to attach important documents relating to higher-ups in the state administration to make out a strong case against CID.
 
 Sensing what the accused officer was up to, 10 CID teams fanned out in several places across Midnapore’s Daspur to talk to residents and gather witnesses in support of the two FIRs already lodged against Ghosh and three police officers. One team went to accused police officer Rajsekhar Pyne’s Radhamadhabpur village and questioned his neighbours. Another team reached the Harerampur residence of prime accused Bimal Ghorai, now in police custody. A Ghatal court sent Ghorai to two more days of police custody after he was produced in court on Monday.
 
 The purpose was to gather witnesses for the cash-for-gold scheme floated during demonetisation at the indulgence of a section of police officers and trace the source of the yellow metal after the CID seized huge quantities of gold ornaments from several places in Midnapore and Kolkata. All gold merchants in Midnapore have been asked to furnish bills and vouchers of sales and booking entries made immediately after note ban. The CID activity has also unnerved few Midnapore cops once close to Bharati.
 
 Pushed to the wall, the accused IPS officer made a desperate bid to defend herself against the CID “revelations” from her Madurdaha residence. “I bought the Madurdaha land out of the handsome tax free salary I used to get during my stay at Nairobi as part of the UN assignment. I was IG(CID) then. I didn’t hide the purchase. I intimated the government and also made a mention of it in my IT returns,” Ghosh said from an undisclosed location.
 
 
