NEW DELHI: The   extended weekend has sent   into a rush to get out of the city to get a   from the usual hustle-bustle and  . Travel agencies and tour operators across the city said that flight and hotel bookings have started peaking as many people are heading towards the hills before Republic Day.

 Tour operators have reported a three- to five-fold hike in bookings from young travellers for camping and trekking in places like Kheerganga, Kasauli, McLeod Ganj and Manali. Families, however, have opted for destinations like Goa, Kerala, Andaman and  .
 
 The operations manager of Reality Tours and Travels, Ravi Kumar, said that their tours have already been blocked from January 25 onwards. “Rajasthan is the most popular choice for families. Hill stations like Kasauli and Dharamsala are popular among solo travellers or groups of youngsters. They prefer to go for adventurous packages with options of camping, rafting and trekking,” he added.
 
 A recent report published by FCM Travel Solutions noted a 43% rise in air ticket bookings from Delhi this Republic Day weekend.
 
 Chandra Sharma, general manager (tours) of Indica Travels, said they have booked over 100 packages for this weekend and people are undeterred by the higher charges. “Jaipur, Udaipur and Jaisalmer are the top destinations for travellers with us. Hotels are charging higher rates due to the long weekend. Though there are no rooms left now, we are still getting calls from people interested in bookings,” he added.
 
 However, not all channels have hiked their rates due to the increase in demand. Many airlines and tour operators have started giving offers to customers with cheap fares and attractive discounts. IndiGo in its Republic Day sale is offering flight bookings for Rs 797 through all channels for travel between January 22 and January 25. Cox and Kings is offering the “Special 26” package starting at just Rs 2,622.
 
 Budget airlines GoAir and Spicejet are also offering heavy discounts. SpiceJet has a special four-day Republic Day sale in which the all-inclusive one-way fare starts at Rs 769 for domestic bookings, while the price of their international flight tickets starts from Rs 2,469 for selected destinations.
 
 Travel agents said that people started booking their weekend getaway months in advance. Similar booking patterns have been seen in 18 other long weekends this year. Rajesh Singh, the manager at Rao Travels in Malviya Nagar, said that Manali and Rishikesh remain the top destinations for them. Their bookings have doubled during this period.
 
 
