NEW DELHI: You can soon experience a desert in the heart of the capital with the   working on a new section that will have sandy landscapes and desert animals, complete with cactii, large boulders and caves.

 Part of its master plan 2031, the authority is looking at a deadline of September-end to build the desert trail on a nearly 5-acre plot inside the zoo.
 
 The trail, which will allow visitors to experience a mini  , will consist of multiple levels and will include three bridges and two mini caves, each allowing a visitor to get a different view of the surroundings and the animals around them. A special watch tower will be located in the middle of the trail from where visitors can get a complete view of the area and the animals located inside.
 
  
  Zoo officials said the desert trail was on the priority list and an action plan had been chalked out to meet the September deadline. “Visitors can experience a mini-desert safari as part of the zoo itself. They don’t need to visit different enclosures as this safari will have around 15-20 animal species,” Renu Singh, the Delhi zoo director, told TOI.
 
 Singh added that different elevation levels would be used to enhance the experience of visitors with several additions giving the area a look of a desert. “The landscape will be very sandy and there will be some desert plants, but enough vegetation as well for the herbivores. The aim is to get people closer to the animals but both sides will have tall fences so that the animals don’t get scared,” said the zoo director.
 
 Some of the animals chosen for the area include sambar deer, nilgai, blackbuck, bonnet macaque, desert cat, python, rat snake, desert boa, porcupines, hare and red jungle fowls. 
 
 The authorities said people could also take a guided tour with the help of the zoo staff who will be stationed at the entrance of the trail and there would be no additional cost to visit the area. “Once this is complete, we expect the footfall to increase, too, as people will be curious to explore this new section,” said Singh.
 
 
