CHENNAI: Three months after   resumed release of water from   into Tamil Nadu, supply has been stopped, said officials. The state has so far received 2.2 thousand million cubic feet (tmcft) of water – one-third of what it has to get from the neighbouring state by June.

 Officials here said Andhra Pradesh is unlikely to supply any more water till the end of   as the storage level in the state’s Kandaleru reservoir has dipped. “The supply was suspended two weeks ago,” confirmed a senior official in the Public Works Department.
 
 Under the Telugu Ganga project, the water scheme to provide drinking water to Chennai, Tamil Nadu is entitled to get 12tmcft of water every year from Krishna river. Water is drawn from Srisailam reservoir in Andhra Pradesh and reaches Poondi reservoir near Chennai after covering a distance of 408km and crossing three major   in between, including Kandaleru. The agreed amount, officials say, is rarely met. Last year, Tamil Nadu received 3tmcft.
 
 Officials say the shortfall will, however, have no impact on the current supply of 650 million litres of water to the city per day (mld). The combined storage level in the four reservoirs that cater to the city – the lakes in Red Hills, Cholavaram, Chembarambakkam and Poondi – stand at 4,206mcft, close to 40% of their total  . 
 
 Around 300 million litres of water will be sourced from these reservoirs every day, and 180mld from the   in Minjur and Nemmeli. Around 70mld will be tapped from Veeranam lake – this is half of the 180mld that is usually sourced from the water body in Cuddalore. 
 
  officials have ruled out stepping up its supply this summer to 831mld – the quantum it routinely supplied before last year’s drought. 
 
 “We will maintain the current supply till the monsoon,” said a Metrowater official. If Veeranam dries up the water board, he said, would compensate by sourcing water from its wells in Tiruvallur. Municipal administration minister S P Velumani, in a review meeting held on Wednesday, also ordered sinking of 10 borewells on the Kosasthalaiyar riverbed and five borewells in Neyveli and Paravanar basins. 
 
 To ensure equal distribution, Metrowater officials have also been asked to map deficient areas and to set up water tanks in these spots.
 
 
