In the latest episode of  , Shivaay is seen speaking to Khanna, asking him to get the information that he has asked for. 

 
 Anika tries to strike a conversation with Shivaay but gets angry at him for not paying attention to her. She tells Shivaay she will leave him and he gets emotional saying he will not let her go. 
 
 Bua comes to Shivaay and Anika's room and calls them for Bhavya's first rasoi. She then decides to separate the two lovebirds soon. 
 
 While family shares some light moments on the dining table, Shivaay is lost in his thoughts. Bhavya prepares halwa for everyone and gets blessings from everyone. 
 
 Shivaay leaves the dining table in a hurry but before that, he promises to show the video recording of Bhavya and Rudra's wedding later in the evening. 
 
 Anika follows Shivaay to the room and asks him the reason for being worried. She comes to know that he is worried because Veer is nowhere to be found. 
 
 Shivaay calls the press to make an announcement about Veer Pratap Chauhan and informs the media about how the latter had mentally tortured his wife Anika. He also says Veer is a criminal and that he has a proof of the same in a pen drive. 
 
 Anika shows a pen drive and says Veer's confessions are recorded in it. 
 
 Shivaay's bua calls up her son Veer and asks him to come to the Oberoi mansion to steal the pen drive. Shivaay is seen giving a day off to his security and Veer's mother gets happy that her plan will work. She informs Veer about the security not being present at the mansion.
 
 Shivaay and the family watch Rudra and Bhavya's wedding video.
 
 Veer sneaks into the Oberoi mansion to look for the pen drive. Shivaay and Anika are also seen waiting for Veer. 
 
 Veer finally manages to locate the pen drive and Anika catches him red handed. She calls out for Shivaay but Veer closes the door and attacks her. 
 
 But Anika laughs at him and tells Veer that this is Shivaay's home and he cannot harm her here. He then confesses all his wrongdoings in front of Anika. He destroys the pen drive and then attacks Anika once again but Shibvaay comes in the nick of time. 
 
