ZIRAKPUR: In the wake of the recent collapse of Imperial Garden in Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, there are still several housing societies without completion certificate in their possession.   municipal council is yet to disclose the data on the same.

 Thinking of Zirakpur as a developing town, the several families that shifted in the societies here though have purchased the flats but have not been provided with the documents by their builders that are a prerequisite for buying any property.
 
 The first case is that of Vrindavan Gardens, where a residents’ body complained that no completion certificate was handed over by the builder. 
 
 “When it comes to issuing NOCs, the society’s builder had obtained them from fire and pollution departments only after the construction was completed, and has not got them renewed till date as required,” said Ashok Jindal, a resident of the society, and also the society’s attorney in an ongoing legal dispute with the builder.
 
 After three years of dispute between the residents and the builder in the   and Haryana high court, the builder had written a letter to Real Estate Regulatory Agency (Rera) promising to provide the completion certificate to the residents by 2019, which is eight years after the construction of the project started.
 
 On being asked about papers available with them,  , a resident of the society, who also attends the ongoing court proceedings of the dispute in the high court, said, “We were just given a copy of the approved building plan in the name of any certificate or document when we bought the flat.”
 
 Tricity Homes, another housing society in front of Imperial Garden, though has in possession all the required documents, it lacks the structure stability certificate. Rajeev Sharma, president of the RWA of the housing society, said, “We have all the required documents. However, no documents were ever produced to show whether the stability test has been conducted or not.” He added that while a resident can be aware of the basic requirements like — completion certificate and title deed — it is not possible for them to be aware of all the prerequisites for buying a property. He attributed this problem to lack of awareness.
 
 With over 570 flats in total, Royale Empire has only 50 flats occupied after its construction was completed in 2011 — the reason was its ongoing tussle with the builder of the housing society. With no documents in their possession, the residents complain that a single look at their society suggests apathy. “While completion certificates and NOCs are seemingly ‘big demands’, the building plan has also been flouted,” said Avtar Singh, secretary of the RWA of the housing society.
 
 “Concrete booths have been constructed on the area that should embrace greenery as per the building plan. Poor sewerage system, dysfunctional lifts and irregular water supply plagues the society residents,” Avtar added.
 
 The plight of the residents of Royal Estate II too is no different from those of the aforementioned housing societies in Peer Muchalla. While the construction of the housing society was completed by 2013, the possession is yet to be taken by the residents’ body, who say that they will not do so till the builder takes care of all the requirements.
 
 Jawahar Goyal, former president of the RWA of Royal Estate II, said, “The fire system here has never been tested. Nobody knows whether it works or not? We were never given an   by the builder, which he ought to have taken from the fire department. The completion work cannot be marked as complete if it doesn’t have a motor in place.” He added that the builder has handed over a copy of the completion certificate on May 18, 2015, without paying any heed to the completion of the norms, which are a prerequisite to handing over the certificate.
 
 Not only the fire system, the residents also complain of a defunct sewerage treatment plant (STP)in the society. The security system is not upto the mark in the absence of CCTV cameras.
 
 B S Pahuja, a resident of the society, said, “There are illegal constructions here too. The penthouses constructed on the 9th floors were not a part of the building plan. We wrote to the SDM office regarding the matter in January this year but a response in still awaited.”
 
 The SDM office could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
 
 ‘Left with no option, but to move in’
 
 While residents of Peer Muchalla may seem partially at fault for moving in a housing society which has not attained the required NOCs and certificates from the local bodies, they have their own share of reasons for having done so.
 
 Vinod Raina, a resident of Vrindavan Gardens, said, “A buyer is not left with much choice. While one is living at a rented accommodation and also gives advance for a property, he intends to buy, he is losing money in the form of EMIs on the home loan and his rented accommodation. This is detrimental for him financially.” 
 
 Reasoning along the same lines,  , said, “A person would think why continue giving rent if have already purchased a flat and made its advance payment too. With such thoughts, they prefer to shift to the new housing society as soon as possible rather than sit and wait for all the certificates to be produced by the builder.”
 
 Citing time constraint as a reason, Jayshal Sood, a resident of Royale Empire, said, “A buyer has no option but to move in. After all they have paid the advance and would want to take over the possession of the property as soon as possible.”
 
 The residents held builders responsible for not applying for the required NOCs and certificates. Some also accused the civic body of being hand in glove with the builders in the area.
 
 Box: 
 
 Taken   in illegal abode?
 
 1. The NOCs taken from fire and pollution department have not been renewed even once as required
 
 Ashok Jindal| Resident of Vrindavan Gardens
 
 2. While completion certificates and NOCs are seemingly ‘big demands’, the building plan has also been flouted
 
 Avtar Singh | Secretary of RWA, Royale Empire
 
 3. The completion work cannot be marked as complete if the fire system is not even having a motor in place
 
 Jawahar Goyal | Former president of RWA, Royal Estate II
 
 4. It is not possible for the residents to be aware of all the prerequisites that need to be checked before buying a property. These are very technical aspects.
 
 Rajeev Sharma | President of RWA, Tricity Homes
 
 
