BHOPAL: The   has launched a   to market its   -   - to connect   in the country. The App, developed by state cooperatives department, would be available on Google Play Store from Wednesday.

 Minister of state (MoS) for cooperatives Vishwas Sarang said that orders for Kadaknath chicken can be placed online and government would also supply it at doorstep on demand in near future.
 
 “The Kadaknath App would provide a marketing platform to 430 members of 21 societies in Jhabua and Alirajpur districts and more societies are being added to this platform. Through this app, people can place order for Kadaknath chicken from anywhere,” said Sarang after the launch of the App.
 
 Kadaknath has virtually become a bone of contention between Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, with both staking claim over its nativity. Both states had filed applications with the Geographical Indication (GI) registry office in Chennai to obtain the ‘GI tag’ for this black-winged chicken variety.
 
 Locally called Kalimasi — the fowl with black flesh —‘Kadaknath’ is considered a premium breed and its meat is priced three times more than that of the broiler chicken. Sarang said that Kadaknath breed is known for its taste and nourishment value, especially for protein content.
 
 “Kadaknath chicken contains 25-27% of protein in comparison to other breeds of chicken that contain 18 per cent protein. It is also known for its high iron content with low fat and cholesterol content compared to other chicken,” said the minister, adding that the newly launched app can be used to track the availability of Kadaknath chicken with the cooperative societies from anywhere.
 
 The fowl that belonged to neighbouring Jhabua and Dhar districts of eastern Madhya Pradesh was introduced in Naxal-affected Dantewada district in a big way only in January this year.
 
 The birds currently are sold for Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500 a piece, and you will have to shell out Rs 50 per egg. The chicken’s black meat is priced between Rs 700- Rs 1,000 per kilogram said officials of the cooperatives department.
 
 
