MUMBAI: Nine bikers allegedly racing on   towards   on Thursday night rammed into a police constable on patrol duty and even whacked him. The constable suffered injuries on the right hand and both legs.

  traced all nine accused, including four   aged between 16 and 17, and seized six bikes. While five of the bikers—Mazgaon residents Akhil Agwan (23) and Abhishek Yadav (18); Dockyard Road residents Shahrukh Agwan (20) and Mukhtar Vellur (23); and Arsalan Shaikh (22), who lives in BIT chawl at JJ Hospital —were arrested and booked for rash driving, assualting a policeman and preventing a policeman from performing his duty, the four juveniles were sent to Dongri remand home. Police said they are college students and school dropouts.
  
 
 Top officials have instructed Gamdevi police to book the minor boys’ parents/relatives in whose names the bikes were registered. “We want to sent a strong message to the parents to not give their vehicles to minors,” said a police officer. 
 
 The incident took place around 9.30pm, when the police control room received an alert about a group of bikers racing towards Pedder Road. A message was sent to all policemen on patrol duty on the stretch. Constables Dilip Salunkhe and S Malusare of Gamdevi police station, who were posted near Cadbury Junction, spotted the bikers zooming down Pedder Road and signalled them to stop, but one of the bikers rammed into Salunkhe, while another whacked him, said a police officer. None of the bikers were wearing helmet. As they rode away, Malusare noted down the registration number of one bike. He rushed Salunkhe to Nair hospital, where he was treated for injuries on the hand and legs. “When the biker rammed into Salunkhe, luckily there was no vehicle coming from behind, else the consequences would had been serious,” said senior police inspector Netaji Bhople. Police traced the bike to Yadav. He led the police to his friends and they were nabbed. 
 
 Joint commissioner of police (law & order) Deven Bharti said   has become a menace, especially along Worli Seaface, JJ Flyover, BKC, Western Express Highway, Eastern Express Highway and sometimes on Eastern Freeeway. “We regularly conduct nakabandis on these stretches to curb drag racing and drunk driving.” 
 
 
