Do your mornings begin with a barrage of   jokes and good morning messages from  ? Welcome to the digitally savvy senior citizens’ club — the 60-somethings who’ve embraced technology with open arms. A little too well, some of their family members argue.

 
 At 79, Rina Lahiri is the queen of gizmos, with two mobile numbers and two desktop computers. The Kolkata resident likes WhatsApp which she “spends most of her free time on”. “I can keep in touch with old acquaintances, take a stroll down memory lane and also make new friends,” she says. 
 
 Seniors like Lahiri may be newbies in the world of  , but thanks to some app and emoji lessons from younger family members, they’re quickly catching up.
 
 Ramesh Desai, an 83-year-old retired civil engineer, says he spends two-three hours a day on Facebook. “I don’t think I spend too much time on it. After retirement, you have a lot of time on your hands. You have to find new ways to socialise. The advantage of Facebook is that you can talk to people and connect without having to move or exert yourself physically,” he points out.
 
  
  
 
 People above the age of 45 make up the population that pays the highest mobile bills in India, both in terms of mobile data and voice calls, according to a 2017 study by IAMAI (Internet & Mobile Association of India). “It’s not wasted time because it helps me relieve loneliness and makes me feel good,” says Lahiri.
 
 The families don’t always approve. Like the stereotypical teenager who’s always glued to the screen, B M Ahluwalia, an 85-year-old ex-CEO, sometimes gets into trouble with his family because of incessant phone usage. “They want to snatch my phone and throw it away,” he says, only half-jokingly. Ahluwalia spends about four to five hours on his phone daily, surpassing the Indian average of three hours per day. “I use WhatsApp for at least two or three hours daily, apart from emailing and spending time on Facebook,” he says.
 
 Shobha Jaisingh, 71, admits to spending eight hours on her phone every day and says she gets lonely without it. “My husband and son say that I never look up from my phone. Even my son’s friends have remarked on it!”
 
 An early adopter of social media for her age group, Jaisingh has seen a dramatic increase in numbers over the last few years. “When I first joined Whatsapp, I used it to talk to a handful of friends. Now, I have two satsang groups, one family group and one kitty party group,” she says.
 
 
 
 
