NEW DELHI: The   of Class X students of   have delivered a shock. The pass percentage in all districts is a dismal  , just one month before the boards. The highest pass percentage among the 12 districts has been recorded in South-West at 41% only! The only good news is that it has improved from the mid-term exam’s overall pass percentage of 21.5%.

 A disappointed deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia has asked the director of education to take action against subject teachers and heads of schools where the pass percentage is significantly low. He has pointed out that several schools have scored below 10% and “there cannot be any justifiable reason for schools to be unable to support the learning of their students to the extent that not even 10% children are able to secure the minimum pass marks in each subject,” he has said in a letter to the department of education. 
 
 
  
 
 This is a nudge to officials on the ground to get involved and figure out why children are faring so badly. 
 
 However, subject teachers say they are helpless. Their biggest challenge is the low learning outcome of those who come to their classes. 
 
 According to an English teacher from a school in south Delhi, her students have trouble comprehending the basic text. So, she is now getting them to learn answers to run-of-the-mill questions by rote. 
 
 “They don’t understand basic and obvious questions posed to them but are expected to undertake complicated comprehension and reading exercises. How much can they do in a year and how much can we achieve in the same time? So, now I get them to learn the answers to very basic three-four mark questions so they can at least score something,” said the teacher.
 
 Another teacher traced the problem back to the introduction of Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) which was “misused” for a 100% result. 
 
 She said the department had itself, over the past eight years when CCE was in force, had asked teachers to make sure students passed irrespective of how much they actually learn or score in class. “If we failed a student, there would be a memo from the department that despite such relaxations why are we not getting a 100% result,” the teacher said in exasperation. 
 
 She explained that to begin with the passing percentage had been pegged at 33% but was brought down to 25%. “Later, the percentage was calculated by adding both SA1 and SA2. The students would fail in their exams but we had to pass them. They didn’t have to work to score and have lost touch with writing and studying,” she said.
 
 A chemistry teacher pointed out that truancy is another factor. “Children leave home but never turn up for class. We contact their parents when they are absent for long, and they come for a few days before disappearing again,” said the teacher.
 
 
