Visakhapatnam: In an alarming find, only three out of over 100   cameras that are part of a police   network in the city are functional.

 The cameras, supposed to be part of a high-tech surveillance network integrated into the Command and Control Centre that was inaugurated at the police commissionerate two years back, have conked out one after the other in the last two years.
 
 The lack of functioning CCTV cameras comes as a major cause of concern as the surveillance cameras often serve as a primary source of evidence in solving crimes ranging from accidents to thefts and even murders.
 
 When Srinivas Dusi, a researcher from the University of Geneva, approached city police recently to help him identify an auto-rickshaw in which he left behind a bag containing important research papers and other belongings, the response from the police command control room in the police commissionerate left him shocked.
 
 “I was told that CCTVs at only two locations in the city are in working condition. I took an auto-rickshaw at Siripuram Junction and alighted at Dwaraka bus stand. It is appalling to know we do not have surveillance cameras even at such busy areas,” said Dusi, who had to extend his stay in India after this.
 
 A total of 160 CCTV cameras were reportedly installed at 47 locations across the city in a 2016 project of the GVMC. The Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) project was executed by a Hyderabad-based firm called Stanpower, which claims to be an expert in ‘intelligent traffic management’ on its website.
 
 “But the project did not fully materialise in a desired manner. The cameras and equipment installed by the company was also of poor quality and they were not properly integrated with the CCTV network. The agreement was later terminated. We are now executing new plans,” city police commissioner T Yoganand told TOI.
 
 “Four cameras are in working condition. One is tilted towards the ground making it useless,” said K Prabhakar, assistant commissioner of police (traffic).
 
 
