CHANDIGARH: A female   suffered burn injuries on her arm and face and around 15 others had a miraculous escape after the pressure cooker on the stove in the MDM Kitchen, Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, exploded on Thursday. The incident took place in the morning at around 8.15 am. The worker suffered 15% burns and is admitted in the   and hospital in Sector 32. Her conditions are reportedly stable. 

 There were around 18 workers in the kitchen at the time of the incident. The lid of the pressure cooker alone weighed around 3 to 4 kg. The MDM workers had a close shave as the pressure cooker after hitting and denting the tin roof, landed on the big utensil full of rice.
 
 Rita, the injured female worker was standing near the stove on which the pressure cooker weighing 60 kg was placed. Dal was being cooked in the pressure cooker when it fell on her and others in the kitchen. Another MDM worker got minor injury near her right eye.
 
 Narrating the mishap, principal Asha Rani said, “I had just reached the school when I heard that there was a fire in the MDM kitchen due to a cylinder blast. We called up the fire brigade but then we realised that there was a miraculous escape and except one worker, all were fine. Everyone was shocked. We checked the CCTV footage. The worker who got injured was standing very close to the stove on which the cooker was placed. There were others standing even closer to the stove but they had shifted to the other corner right then for helping other workers lift a big utensil, seconds ago.”
 
 An MDM worker said, “I was sweeping the floor when the incident occurred and the pressure was such that I was pushed to a distance. I was wearing a sweater that saved me or else I would have also got injured. Rita was facing the cooker so the intensity of her injury was more.” 
 
 “Had it been summer season then it would have been even more dangerous. We were saved because of the jackets and sweaters,” the worker added. Rita has four children, eldest daughter being in class X. She was with her mother in the hospital. her husband is a daily wager.
 
 Rani added, “It was a miracle. I would say the injured worker has also not sustained very serious injuries. Things could have turned worse.” The school is paying for the medical expenses which will later be reimbursed by the education department, she added.
 
 
