Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this column. 

 
 There are a few people in the city who, in the name of clicking photos, sneak into the photo. No, it’s not called photo bombing anymore. The terminology now is “Let’s request that selfie-stick to click us”. There are a few designated men who always stick themselves into photos and then force people to publish it on Facebook. Last heard, a bunch of has-been socialites is calling up to find out if these selfie-sticks are at parties and then accordingly planning their arrival times.
 
  
 
 Madhavan replies to every WhatsApp message with utmost kindness. Recently, someone had sent him a message regarding an event. Although it was a rather straight-to-the-point message, for which even the sender didn't anticipate a response, the actor did reply saying it was short notice and he’d be happy to connect at a later time. And when he underwent a surgery recently, he took a day off to sit and reply to the good wishes he received. That’s what makes him the ever-affable  . 
 
  
 
  is one man who has a huge legion of young male fans and is not your quintessential chocolate boy that has teenage girls going gaga. Or so we thought. It seems at a social do in the city, attended by many young girls, one in particular got a little bit too close for comfort. But the star that he is, he took it in his stride and entertained the girl’s gushing advances. Awww, so cute!
 
  
 
 Sandesh and Mansi, the brains behind the some of the city’s eateries and hangouts, live it up in a 800-sq-ft pad decked up with love and brilliant design ideas. Their first love pad, it seems, has been so lucky for them that they haven’t thought of scaling up. Their dinner parties are a talk of the town with their kitchen top that extends out as a dining table that accommodates five. While Sandesh drums up exotic food, Mansi entertains their international and local guests. It seems their guest list is par excellence, with international chefs, creative icons and business honchos making a beeline for Sandesh’s Thai yellow fish curry. 
 
  
 
 This up-and-coming big daddy of social projects and events across the city, we hear, has taken a liking to a socialite. Always known to be a ‘conservative’ guy who dotes on his gorgeous wife, he is now taking his ‘colleague’, a socialite, to most meetings and even honouring her with glorious speeches. It’s come to the socialite’s husband’s notice, but he is so busy attending to his international business, that he feels better off with the wife occupied elsewhere! 
 
 
 The daughter of former minister Anbarasu has left her home for over 20 years — Australia — to come give politics a shot in Tamil Nadu. Dressed in stunning Kancheevarams, Sumathi Anbarasu, is socialising in town and gaining support among the urban crowd before making her political announcement. If sources are to be believed, she is planning to campaign big for a national party. 
 
 
 This restaurateur-turned-model is quite the hit with outstation choreographers. This Chennai boy is booked well in advance for big fashion weeks. It seems it’s not his look or physique, but he is considered a lucky charm by the designers. This young man,  , who used to run a Punjabi dhaba, is now scorching runways across the country. 
 
  
 
