BENGALURU: K B Koliwad, speaker of the Karnataka legislative assembly, on Monday reserved his judgement on a JD(S) plea to disqualify seven rebel MLAs for what the party called anti-party activities. The seven are accused of defying a whip during the   polls in 2016.

 The JD(S) had sought the disqualification of the seven MLAs as they are expected to vote for a   candidate in Rajya Sabha   on Friday. The JD(S) has fielded B M Farook and are keen on his winning although they do not have the required numbers for him to ease through. The JD(S) had now the disqualification of MLAs B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan, N Cheluvarayaswamy, H C Balakrishna, Bheema Nayak, Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, Babu Bandisidde Gowda and Iqbal Ansari.
 
 The petition was filed by JD(S) with the speaker after the seven cross-voted against the JD(S) candidate B M Farook and in favour of Congress candidate K C   in 2016 Rajya Sabha polls. “The speaker has heard our case, which was well argued by our lawyer, and we have asked for a judgement on the matter by the end of the day or by Tuesday morning. However, it is unlikely that any justice will be meted out to us,” said JD(S) MLA, B B Ningaiah, who is the petitioner on behalf of the party.
 
 Ningaiah said the high court has also has admitted a plea directing Koliwad to disqualify the seven MLAs. “We are expecting the arguments to begin from Tuesday, and a judgement to be delivered before March 23,” he said.
 
 The seven votes of the rebels are crucial for the Congress to secure a seat for their third candidate, G C Chandrashekar at the polls. It is estimated that every candidate to be elected to the Rajya Sabha requires minimum of 44 votes. There are four seats from Karnataka to the Rayja Sabha up for grabs. The   has re-nominated incumbent independent MP, Rajeev Chandrasekhar, as their official candidate.
 
 A whip has been issued by the BJP to its 43 MLAs to cast all their votes and second preferences to Chandrasekhar only. The BJP also enjoys the support of two independent MLAs and three MLAs from the BSR Congress.
 
 
