MANGALURU: The city will get the first of its kind health kiosks within a week, that will help citizens to get their health check-ups done on the go at 9 locations.

 The department of health and family welfare is all set to open health kiosks at Jappinamogaru, Saripalla, Kudroli, Meenakaliya, Krishnapura, Thokkottu, Olapete, Kotepura and Chembugudde. The initiative was the brainchild of minister for food, civil supplies and consumer affairs U T Khader, who mooted the proposal during his tenure as health minister.
 
 Kiosks will be introduced on the lines of  , that are functioning as primary health centres offering a basic package of essential health services including medicines, diagnostics, and consultation, free of cost.
 
 Khader said in the first phase, container based kiosks will be set up in   and  , and later more will be introduced based on the requirement. The pre-fabricated aluminium kiosks of 10x10x8 cubic ft, will have all the facilities necessary for a clinic. Various medical services will be provided by health staff between 2.30pm and 4.30pm. The timings will be enhanced in the later stage, Khader said, adding that the kiosks will be opened within a week. 
 
 Pregnancy test, pregnancy care, post-natal care, immunization, intrauterine contraceptive device insertion, malnutrition check-up, analysis of blood and urine for detection of various diseases and health awareness are the major services planned to be provided through the kiosks. Initially, junior women health assistants will be deputed to provide services, and permanent doctors will be appointed once tie-ups are established with private medical colleges, Khader said.
 
 “The health kiosks will be a blessing for coolies, autorickshaw drivers, street vendors and the poor, who find it difficult to reach hospitals in the city. The kiosks will be placed at locations where there are no primary health centres. In addition to Mangaluru, similar kiosks will also be introduced in Bengaluru and Mysuru cities,” Khader said, adding that each kiosk costs Rs 4.5 lakh.
 
 
