CHANDIGARH: The   government on Saturday refused to budge from its stance regarding the strike by Class IV employees and sanitation workers, saying that the demand for regularisation of contractual employees of municipalities in the urban areas was unjustified as the court had put a stay on the matter under various policies since 2016. The government said it was not right to protest and interrupt emergency services.

 For the past three days, the contractual staff of the civic bodies have been on strike. It ended with the sanitation workers spilling garbage outside the residences of local MLAs and ministers of the BJP. The urban local bodies department said in view of the protest, the employees had been interrupting cleanliness and emergency services such as fire. A spokesperson of the department said the demand of protesting employees was unjustifiable because on September 2, 2016, a double bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court had put stay on all regularisation policies issued on and after June 16, 2014. 
 
 “Thereafter, the chief secretary had directed all heads of departments to ensure compliance of these orders. In this direction, it would not be possible to regularise contractual employees,” he said.
 
 The spokesperson said that the state government had been making efforts to strengthen cleanliness and fire services. He said, “Haryana Safai Karamchari Aayog has been constituted and under chief minister   it has increased the wages of safai karamcharis (sanitation workers) from Rs 8,100 to Rs 11,500 per month.” He said that in case of death while cleaning sewers, the dependants of the safai karamcharis would be provided with an ex gratia amounting to Rs 10 lakh and compassionate amount of Rs 3 lakh in case of contractual employees. Also, risk allowance of Rs 2,000 per month is being given to employees cleaning sewers.
 
 He further said that the directorate of fire services had been established in the state to integrate fire services. In order to further improve these, 38 fire brigades have been purchased for districts and the state government has given approval for purchase of 56 more and 102 motorcycles equipped with fire-fighting devices, said the spokesperson.
 
 
