RANCHI: Activists of Right to Food Campaign,  , on Monday alleged that the state government's earlier insistence to link   cards to social security schemes for jobs under MGNREGA, ration under public distribution system and pensions has not only proved to be disruptive for the rural populace but was also responsible for starvation deaths across the state.

 "In 2017, the state government claimed 11 lakh fake ration cards and one crore fake job cards were cancelled while another two lakh fake pensioners were removed from the pension list in course of Aadhaar verification process. However, the verification exercises carried out by activists of Right to Food Campaign and replies to   by the state show that most of the ration cards and job cards were cancelled and beneficiaries were removed from pension lists, not because they were fake but because their families were unable to link their Aadhaar cards," Economist   told reporters in Ranchi today.
 
 Dreze added, "Our enquiries have further established that lakhs of men and women were unable to link their Aadhaar cards through biometrics due to poor network in rural areas. In most of the cases, absence of operators have only added to the chaos. Villagers who visited Pragya Kendras for Aadhaar verification were sent back due to non-availability or poor internet and mobile networks. This is why people in remote areas have been unable to link their Aadhaar cards to social schemes despite repeated attempts."
 
 Referring to the case of September 28 in which 11-year-old Santoshi Kumari of   block in Simdega district allegedly died due to hunger,   said the family was deprived of ration for five months. "On October 23, daily wage earner   died in Deoghar district. His daughter Manodi told journalists that her father, who was in his late 60s, died of hunger as the family was unable to collect ration due to a biometric mismatch at the PDS centre. On December 1, Premani   of Garhwa district died due to starvation after being refused ration. On December 25, Etwariya Devi of Majhiaon block in Garhwa died due to starvation after being denied ration for three months and pension for two months," Dreze alleged. He claimed that there was sufficient evidence to prove that the alleged hunger deaths took place due to stopping of ration and pension because of Aadhaar-related issues. "Both the state government and UIDAS have refused to take any action in this regard," he said. 
 
 
