BC ROAD: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   on Thursday exhorted the rank and file of the   to be hyper-vigilant over the next 48-hours in the run up to voting on Saturday. “Go protect your booths, and ensure that ‘mayawi’   does not play its tricks at polling stations,” Yogi said, while exhorting the cadre to also ensure that every party voter turns up and votes for the BJP in the assembly polls, which he described as extremely crucial.

 Addressing party workers after an hour-long 1-km   from Polali dwara to the grounds adjacent to BC Road-Belthangady SH, Yogi said it was this same vigilance that helped the BJP wipe out the Congress from his home state. “Out of the 80 Lok Sabha seats in Uttar Pradesh, while the BJP won 71, the Congress was reduced to 2. This will become 0 in 2019 for the Congress. Likewise, in the 403-seat UP assembly, Congress has been reduced to 7, and even this will be reduced to 0 in 2022,” he said.
 
 “The Karnataka assembly elections has also provided voters with the right opportunity to help realize the Mahatma’s dream of dissolution of the Congress post-Independence,” Yogi said, adding the time has come to dump the grand old party into the Arabian Sea. “For this to happen, every worker has to be vigilant and man their respective booths,” he said, while exhorting the rank and file of the party to ensure that every one turns up at the polling station and votes for the BJP.
 
 Impressed by the mass turnout in the searing heat, Yogi said, “You remind me of the power of Bajrang Bali who went to battle alongside Lord Ram, and have the power to bring down the citadel of corruption of the Congress. These elections are also an unique opportunity for you to bring down a government that has constantly been stalling development, has not given good governance and is synonymous with ‘goondaism’ and supporting jihadi elements.”
 
 Speaking in the Congress bastion represented by district minister B Ramanath Rai in his home constituency, Yogi said the midday meals provided by Kollur Sri Mookambika Temple that had been stopped on instructions from Rai, to two schools managed by a local RSS leader, will be restored once the BJP comes to power. “The BJP government will take action against those who misused their powers to foist false cases against party workers,” he added.
 
 Yogi in top spirit
 
 Yogi who normally sports his tonsured pate with ease took to wearing a round floppy hat to protect himself from the burning evening sun. When the media in jest pointed this to his ministerial colleague Mahendra Singh saying, “Aap ne toh Yogi ji ko topi pehenhai hai,” an equally sportive Singh said, “Yeh toh hamari topi hai!!” referring to the saffron colour hat that the UP chief minister sported. Yogi was in top spirits throughout the roadshow as well as the brief public meeting. 
 
 
