MUMBAI: Outpatient services in clinics and hospitals in the state are likely to be hit between 6am and 6pm on Tuesday as the   has called for a national strike to protest against several sections in the National Medical Commission bill, which was tabled in Parliament on Friday. Emergency services, however, will remain unaffected.

 
 Dr Shivkumar  , a member of the IMA, said elective surgeries had been put on hold and outpatient consultations would not take place till evening. The   has 40,000 members in the state, including 14,000 in the city. He said the Centre had left them with no choice but to go on strike as none of their suggestions had been taken into consideration in the bill.
 
 
 City hospitals, however, said not many doctors had given them a notice. The head of a leading private hospital in south Mumbai said the impact would be minimal as many doctors were already on year-end leave and very few elective surgeries were scheduled till January 5. An official from a Bandra hospital said merely 40% of their staffers were on duty. “Most junior doctors are working and OPDs have very few patients during this time of the year. Also, public hospitals are running, so we have to see if there’s an impact,” the official said.
 
 
 The bill states that the National Medical Commission will have government-nominated chairman and members and the board members will be selected by a search committee under the cabinet secretary. There will be five elected and 12 ex-officio members in the panel. It also proposes a common entrance exam and licentiate exams which all medical graduates will have to clear to practice. No permission will be needed to add new seats or to start postgraduate courses, as per the proposed bill. Dr Utture said most doctors had pledged their support. “This is a proprivate bill. Now, courses can start without much scrutiny. It will also make it easier for non-MBBS graduates to practice modern medicine,” he said.
 
 
 Dr Sagar Mundada, an IMA member, said only five states would be represented in the   at any given point of time. “Only up to 40% of seats in a private medical college can be regulated by the government. For 60% or more seats, private colleges will fix the rates, making it unaffordable for the masses.”
 
