In the latest episode of  ,   begins to panic when he finds his scooter Sakharam missing. He asks Abdul and others about it. 

 Anjali and   feel bad for Bhide. The ladies decide to help him find his scooter. 
 
 Bhide returns from the backyard and tells society members how he had told them that someone was up to mischief with his scooter. He scolds   as well for telling him that he was worrying unnecessarily.
 
 Bhide seeks Sodhi's help. Sodhi tells him that his scooter might have been towed. But his response meets with counter-arguments. Anjali tells him that society compound is a private area, and hence the vehicle cannot be taken away.
 
 When Jethalal is about to say something, Bhide stops him. Bhide tells Jethalal that he gave a nonsensical excuse earlier as well, so he doesn't want him to say anything now. In an attempt to divert his attention, Jethalal tells Bhide that the scooter might have been damaged by Iyer. 
 
 No one buys his excuse. Jethalal then tells Bhide that Sakharam might have been possessed and taken off on its own. Iyer rejects this thought. Bhide asks Jethalal not to have fun at his expense. 
 
 They all try to calm down Bhide. Dr. Hathi elaborates some medical problems that could be caused if Bhide remained tensed. Jethalal and Mehta ask him to continue to pass everyone's time. Babita tells them someone probably is playing a prank on Bhide to have fun. 
 
 Jethalal accuses Popatlal. Bhide and Iyer refuse to believe him. But Mehta tells them there could have been an emergency which made Popatlal take the scooter without seeking Bhide's permission.
 
 When Iyer tells them Popat would need keys for taking the scooter away, Jethalal mistakenly tells him that when the kids can make the duplicate keys, then even Popatlal can. Bhide tells Jethalal, Mehta, Hathi and Sodhi that he won't spare Popat for his act. 
 
 Iyer calls Popatlal, but Jethalal tells him not to. Instead, Jethalal makes a fake call, and when it doesn't get picked up, they all come to the conclusion that Popat has taken away the scooter. 
 
