CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh administration to take up issue of drying of  , financial crisis of   and getting additional water from Kajauli in the northern zonal council meeting.

 Five zonal councils —central, western, northern, southern and eastern— have been established under the State Reorganization Act, 1956. These zonal councils are advisory bodies and may discuss any matter in which some or all of the states represented in a council, or the union and one or more of the states represented in a council, have a common interest and advise the Central government and the government of each state concerned as to the action to be taken on any such matter.
 
 Chandigarh will take up the issue of drying of   and urge the neighbouring states to chip in for finding solutions. Drying of Sukhna, a manmade lake, during summers has become an annual ritual. Over the years, the water level of the lake, created in 1958 by   and then chief engineer P L Verma at a cost of Rs 1 crore, has been declining due deficient monsoons. Also, since its creation, the lake has been plagued by the problem of heavy silting. UT will also take up financial crisis of Panjab University (PU). The issue of getting additional water from Kajauli will also be discussed.
 
 The ruling BJP party during the MC elections held in 2016 had promised 24X7 water supply, which is yet to be achieved. Against the demand of 115 million gallons of water per day (MGD), 67 MGD is received from Kajauli, while the remaining is generated through tubewells.
 
 In particular, a zonal council may discuss, and make recommendations with regard to any matter of common interest in the field of economic and social planning, any matter concerning border disputes, linguistic minorities or inter-state transport and anything connected with, or arising out of, the reorganisation of the states. The zonal councils aim to discuss and resolve many substantive issues of development concerning regional interest and national programmes through its consultative mechanism.
 
 Northern zonal council comprise of the states of Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, Rajasthan, Delhi and Chandigarh. The chief ministers in the zone, chief secretaries and senior officers from the state governments and central government will attend the meeting.
 
 
