GHAZIABAD: The UP housing department has amended the building   in   in order to keep development of residential areas in the district at par with other districts in UP. The order dated April 24 was received by   ( ) on Wednesday.

 According to officials, the amended bylaws have come into force with immediate effect. As per the order, stilt parking plus three floors will be allowed on plot sizes measuring between 150 and 300 sqm. Four floors along with stilt parking will be allowed on plots measuring more than 300 sqm. The amendments have been notified by principal secretary of the housing & urban planning department Nitin Ramesh Gokarn. The latest order overrides the building bylaws that had been notified exclusively for Ghaziabad in September 2014.
 
 The housing department order is in consonance with the bylaws notified for entire UP in June 2016. This order had made it permissible to construct buildings with stilt parking and three floors in plot sizes measuring between 150 and 300 sqm. For plot sizes measuring between 300 and 2,000 sqm, stilt parking and four floors had been made permissible through the 2016 order.
 
 As per the 2014 bylaws notified exclusively for Ghaziabad, stilt parking plus four floors were allowed in plot sized measuring between 112 and 2,000 sqm.
 
 The GDA had identified areas within 13 residential colonies to implement the building bylaws of 2014 following an examination of basic infrastructure facilities. The survey was conducted to examine whether basic infrastructure in residential colonies were adequate to handle population pressure by allowing construction through implementation of the bylaws.
 
 “The new bylaws will not be applicable to all residential colonies. A fresh survey will be conducted to identify areas where basic infrastructure is adequate or can be upgraded to allow construction of buildings with stilt parking and three floors. No new survey will be conducted to identify colonies where four-storied buildings can be allowed. This survey had already been conducted in 2014-15 on the basis of which the residential colonies had been identified,” GDA chief architect and town planner, Ishtiyaq Ahmed, told TOI.
 
 The new survey will be conducted to examine basic infrastructure in residential colonies including roads, sewer lines, water supply pipelines and electricity amongst other parameters. Colonies will be identified on the basis of this survey.
 
 
