LUCKNOW: UP government will soon start the process of notifying close to 3,000 hectare land for the Rs 20,000 crore   project. The pre-feasibility study for the project, announced by PM   in February this year, has already started and will be completed by August 31. 

 During the first of its three consultative meetings on the defence corridor with the industry, organized by Udyog Bandhu and the Indian Industries Association here on Wednesday, the government also held a discussion on the UP Defence and Aerospace Manufacturing Policy, 2018, which it is on the verge of finalizing.
 
 Infrastructure and industrial development commissioner Anup Chandra Pandey said: "We have to identify and notify 3,000 hectare land along the proposed corridor, stretching from Aligarh to Chitrakoot, via Agra, Kanpur, Lucknow and Jhansi. This will be done as soon as the pre-feasibility study is completed. We have mapped clusters around the major cities along the proposed corridor and we are looking at ways of merging these with the defence project. The state has a rich foundation of small and medium industries which can be connected with the corridor," he said.
 
 The government has decided to have a single window clearance system for all projects related to the defence corridor. A defence cell will also be set up in Udyog Bandhu for coordination and assistance to those who wish to invest in the defence sector.
 
 "The Centre will provide Rs 3,000 crore to UP for upgradation of infrastructure for the corridor. Another Rs 20,000 crore has been identified for setting up of units. This fund will come from the state, private companies and MSMEs," said Union minister of state for defence, Subhash Ramrao Bhamre. Pandey said that under the plan formulated by the government, it would focus on expanding existing ordnance factories in the state, mobilising private investments, involving small and medium enterprises in the project, bridging the market gaps and connecting ancillary units in the state to meet the requirements of defence PSUs and developing export-oriented manufacturing base for defence sector.
 
 Industries minister Satish Mahana and economic advisor to defence production department, Rajib Kumar Sen, were among those who participated in the discussions. Next meeting is scheduled to be held in Kanpur on May 14. 
 
 
