THANE: After successfully training close to 1,200 medical practitioners and clinic staffers on the correct methods to segregate and dispose of biomedical waste, two city based NGOs , along with the  , have now turned their attention to the Thane municipal corporation (TMC)-run   in  .

 In an attempt to ensure that all these hazardous waste generated in the lake-city is segregated and disposed of safely, these organisations had started a training program for healthcare professionals three months ago. “We have over 1,800 healthcare organisations registered with us. They generate approximately two tonnes of bio-medical waste daily. Over the years we have observed that 30% of this waste is often left unsegregated, which made disposing it of safely a risky job as mismanagement of waste can lead to the spread of infections and diseases. Just three months into the project, we have already started getting a positive feedback and most of these medical organisations have started putting the right kind of waste in the right chlorinated bags,” said a member of an NGO Enviro Vigil.
 
 With the three-month drive already showing signs of success, the organisations have now started a week-long training session for the entire medical staff across various departments of Kalwa hospital, who will be informed about how to handle bio-medical waste.
 
 “We will be holding different sessions for different groups from the housekeeping staff to the MBBS doctors, nursing department and HODs as there is a different level of awareness and knowledge requirement at each level. We are conducting four sessions a day throughout the week on the weekends and the groups come in shifts so that their hospital work isn’t affected,” said Dr.  , founder of R- Nisarg NGO.
 
 Speaking about the method of segregation, she said, “There are four separate sections for bio-medical waste segregation. While the yellow coloured bag is used for disposing bio-medical waste that needs to be burnt like body organs, blood, soiled waste and so on, the red bag is for plastic, rubber and other recyclable waste. The blue bag is for glass and metal and the white canister is for sharp items like razors and needles. Putting the waste into anyother bag can affect the health of those further segregating the waste as they could come in touch with the infected blood and fluids. This is why it is crucial that this hazardous waste is managed safely.”
 
 While the training sessions have just begun, it has already started making a difference in the corporation-run hospital. “The feedback from staffers was overwhelming. A lot of them came up to me and said that they were completely unaware of these bio-medical waste segregation and disposal rules and methods as it was never taught to them, and they realised that the wrong methods could result in the spread of diseases and infections. As medical practitioners it is our job to protect patients from these ailments,” said  , the dean of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Hospital, Kalwa.
 
 We have over 1,800 healthcare organisations registered with us. They generate approximately two tonnes of bio-medical waste daily. Over the years we have observed that 30% of this waste is often left unsegregated, which made disposing it of safely a risky affair as mismanagement of waste can lead to the spread of infections and diseases
 
 
