MUMBAI: If there's one team in this   that won games in this IPL purely on the strength of its bowling, it's the  . On quite a few occasions, the Sunrisers didn't score more than 160 - normally an inadequate score in   - but still managed to skittle out their opponents for a much lesser total.

 
 
 
 
 Naturally, the team's bowling prowess, led by world's top spinner, leggie Rashid Khan, has left their coach   delighted. "I'm not sure that I agree that T20 cricket is all about the batsman's game. I think we've seen how over the recent years bowlers have significant influences in T20 games and tournaments. Yes, generally the odds are stacked in favour of the batsmen given the nature of the game but I think we've seen bowlers emerge over time to really challenge top orders and then you've got to look at someone like Sunil Narine who's done it consistently for the whole of the IPL.
 
 
 
 
 "He's really dominated as a bowler. With regards to our bowling attack, they've done an excellent job. There's no question about that. We played on a number of varied wickets throughout the tournament and we've managed to adjust pretty effectively with Kane's leadership with regards to how he used those bowlers throughout the 20 overs. We've managed to more often than not get it right," praised Moody, on the eve of his team's IPL final against   on Sunday night.
 
 
 
 
 The SRH bowling, though, has looked slightly less threatening when they've played outside Hyderabad on much flatter tracks, and that clearly contributed to their four-match losing streak in the business end of the tournament. Moody didn't seem too worried by his bowlers' struggles in the later of the league.
 
 "Look, I'm more than happy playing a final tomorrow. And six of the teams aren't. I guess those experiences of playing on some wickets that the team found flat has been really good for us. You can only bowl on surfaces that are provided and we have done that and done that very well. We did come across couple of surfaces which were quite different than what we had played a lot of our games on," he said.
 
 The coach lauded the fighting spirit of his boys, which saw them beat the Kolkata Knight Riders in the second qualifier after the Sunrisers lost early wickets in the contest. "Even last night, perhaps a lot of people thought that after the seventh over, we're out of the contest, but that was certainly not the mindset of the 11 players on the field."
 
  "Yes, we didn't get the results that we wanted but we did get was compete in every single one of those games. We didn't have an occasion this year where we were smashed up in any game. We competed right to the end. It's the fine line that this game presents. But the best part from my perspective is that we fought and we competed in every contest," he summed up.
 
 Moody revealed that the sudden transition of SRH captaincy from Australian opener  , who was banned for after the ball tampering episode, to   was rather "smooth" for the team.
 
 "I think it's been an easy transition for our team given that Kane's been part of the Sunrisers setup for a few years. Those who were there in the previous years were very familiar with Kane as a person and a lot of people sort of forget the fact that even though you don't have a type as a leader, he naturally offered his leadership around the group. Whether he was in the Playing XI or not in the Playing XI, I know for certain (that) David Warner relied him a lot with his advice on match-day or outside. So, given that was the history, the actual transition was smooth. I think it's just a case of him adapting to a new environment to captain and the IPL is a unique environment and he's done that like duck to water," complimented the former Australian all-rounder.
 
