Did you know that   can be purchased ‘wholesale’ online? Did you know that these living beings are sold as ‘units’, that ‘shipping is free’ for them and that they come with an ‘exchange policy’? But the commodification of living, breathing animals with feelings is not the only horror of online sales. Animal activist  , who started an online petition calling for a ban on the online sale of puppies a couple of days ago, says that this also results in the large-scale abuse of animals. “Sites like Quikr, Facebook (which disallows sale through Marketplace, but allows listing on groups), Marshall Petzone, Dogsindia.com, Dogbazar.org and even B2B sites like Indiamart.com all allow pups/dogs to be sold online like objects. How often have you bought something online and realised you didn’t really need it? Now, think about how dangerous that is when the ‘item’ you’ve bought is a living thing with feelings and needs. Online sale of pets encourages impulsive buying, which then results in the abandonment of pets when people realise that they don’t really want them. Such sites also have policies that include guarantees, exchange and return-by clauses. Dogs are not toys to be sold online and exchanged, like, say, a kurta. Unhygienic puppy mills are thriving because people can anonymously sell puppies online. This results in dogs having genetic defects, and many times people who ‘order’ such pups simply do not want them.   has become a lucrative business thanks to this, and many dogs are being stolen so that they can be bred and their pups sold online,”   explains.

 Online sales are thriving despite India having strict laws on animal breeding. “That’s the tragedy,” says, Priya, adding, “Somehow, the government has missed recognising online sales as third-party sales, so there is no regulation or check on these. The Dog Breeding, Marketing And Sale Rules states that basic medical checks must stringently be carried out for genetic defects, the puppy has to be at least two months old before it is sold, and that a dog can only be made to breed once a year. But none of this matters in the online space. The government taxes sanitary napkins, death and insurance, why not breeding?”
 Through her petition, Priya and others like her want to raise awareness and get the government to tweak the animal welfare law to ban the sale of animals online, thus putting an end to the miseries suffered by thousands of hapless dogs.
 
 
 
 These are some of the risks that Priya has listed in her online petition:
 
 
