KOLKATA: Sister  , whose sudden departure from Kolkata baffled her associates and sparked fears that she may have left the city forever, hopes to return this May or June after a visit to Rome. However, she is unlikely to again hold the advisory positions that she quit prior to her departure for Mauritius on February 3.

 “I am taking rest in Mauritius. My days are spent reading and praying. I hope to be back in Kolkata in three-four months,” she told TOIover phone. Her family members in Ireland, who were equally concerned about the uncharacteristic manner in which she left without informing them, are relieved to know of her plans to return.
 
 The nun opened convent schools here for socially and financially disadvantaged children and has spent three quarters of her life here. She arrived in Kolkata in 1956 as a 20-year-old and has lived here since.
 
 
  
 The   to which the nun from the Loreto order belongs says she had been sent to Mauritius to recuperate after an active life that had continued well past her retirement in December 2011.
 
 Jayanta Chatterjee of Rotary Club was taken aback when he learnt she had suddenly taken an   flight to Mauritius via Dubai. “Sister Cyril would always inform us of her plans in advance, particularly if she was travelling out of the city. As an advisor to the Rotary grant, she was driving the teacher training programme in five schools for underprivileged children. The meeting was scheduled on February 17. Now we have moved it to February 24, but we will miss her presence when the course is concluded in March,” said Chatterjee.
 
 Sister Cyril’s nephew Larry Mooney, with whom she was in touch, was shocked to learn she had left for another country without informing him. “I spoke to Sister Cyril a few days ago and she never mentioned any trip abroad. I only heard through friends in India that she had gone,” he said.
 
 Radical in her ways and blunt in expressing her thoughts, Sister Cyril had taken on other institutions that led to friction within and outside the order. So when she left Kolkata suddenly, some felt she had been forced to relocate.  , the vicar general of the   of Calcutta, scotched the rumours. “Sister Cyril will be back where she belongs,” he said.
 
