GURUGRAM: The finance committee of  , headed by mayor  , on Saturday held its first meeting since mayoral elections in September last year and cleared 14 development projects worth Rs 45 crore, which included two depots for the city bus service that will be launched and an ampitheatre in Kamla Nehru Park.

 Additionally, 15 projects worth Rs11 crore have been given administrative approval by the committee, which consists of senior deputy mayor Pramila Kablana and deputy mayor Sunita Yadav too.
 
 “We have given the go-ahead to a number of projects, the most important being those related to the sewage, road, water and park-related works in residential areas,” said Azad. “I have directed MCG officials from the engineering wing to ensure qualitative work while delivering on these projects,” she added. Apart from the long-pending ampitheatre proposal, the biggest project approved by the committee included the two depots for the city bus service in Sector 10 and sectors 52/53, respectively. 
 
 The committee also gave an approval to the project of a multi-skill development centre in Kadipur. The Atul Kataria Road widening project also got an approval from the panel. In the wake of the ever-increasing problem of traffic in the city, the committee has also given approval to improvement of all the road signage in old Gurgaon. “We want the city to have all the basic facilities and at the same time bring in new projects to make Gurgaon safer and less polluter,” said Azad. A proposal to install open air gyms in parks of zone 2 and zone 4 of MCG was also approved. Multiple committees are to be formed for monitoring and approving the MCG projects, the proposal for which was tabled in the first house meeting as well. Committees to be formed include water supply, sewage, drainage and disposal committee, building and roads regulation committee, accounts and audit committee, vigilance committee and implementation committee among others
 
 According to sources, the next house meeting for MCG is likely on January 15.
 
 
