MUMBAI: Thousands of early risers hit the streets in   on Sunday morning under a clear blue sky. Boys and girls, parents and grandparents, newborns in prams to nonagenarians who needed no assistance, all shared a traffic-free 3km stretch of Linking Road to rejuvenate and revel in a movement called Equal Streets.

 
  
  
 
 Equal Streets secretary Renuka Tahiliani said, “Back after two years, Sunday saw 20,000 Mumbaikars transform the 3km stretch into a fun playground and performance arena from 7am to 11am.”
 
 Prittika Thakkarr, a Class XI IB student, arrived at 6.30am from   with her family and friends. She said it was her first time but, in between playing a ball game with old friends and new, she added that she would come back next weekend.
 
 Another first-timer,  , who just gave her Class X exams and is confused about her choices for junior college, said she had no second thoughts about heading to Equal Streets from Kandivli to meet her friends. “It is a fun and healthy movement. We can be with friends and make new ones. We can play all we want,” she beamed and aimed a ball at a player who swiftly dodged it.
 
 A few metres away, boys and girls, played cricket with plastic bats. But one among them, 13-year-old Zoha Mansuri, from Bandra and a Class VIII student of St Joseph Convent, had been wielding the willow as captain of her school team. “I went for selections in open category and the Mumbai team selector has advised me to try for under-16,” she said with a determined look on her perspiring face.
 
 Most visitors joined in early morning to beat the rising mercury. While several ambled, skated, soaked in the sun, or cycled around to their hearts’ content, many were also seen learning origami from artist  , joining in yoga classes, playing musical instruments or performing stunts. To help people with sports and other equipment, a team of 20-odd coaches from Marcos Quay was present at the spot. “Having coaches here is something good,” said   from Kandivli.
 
 Born in November 2014, Equal Streets—a movement supported by The Times of India —is the culmination of efforts by NGOs, activists, architects, citizen associations and cycling groups keen on reclaiming streets from traffic snarls and perpetual honking. The event has grown into a mass movement, attracting thousands and transforming neighbourhoods in Powai, Juhu and Bandra.
 
