KOCHI: New York Times bestselling author,  , who authored ‘Chicken Soup for the Women’s Soul’ books, celebrated her 60th birthday with a marriage renewal ceremony along with her husband Sergio Baroni under their new Indian names Meenakshi and Shiva in   on Wednesday. They are now in Kochi to discover the harmony between religions.

 “One of the things I want to take back to America is the harmony between religions. It was so touching to see a Muslim family taking care of a nonagenarian Jew. This reflects the spiritual magnanimity of India as they are willing to accept Jewish people when they were being persecuted across the world,” said Shimoff, who is of Jewish origin.
 
 Her fascination with India began with her interest in meditation but upon arriving in India, she was shocked to find that mediation is not that popular here. “Spirituality is very important for happiness and it could be in any form – God, religion or nature. I was shocked to see that meditation is not so popular in India, while spiritually enriching meditation and yoga is increasingly popular in America. The best things from India are being adopted in America, while I can also see the materialism from America influencing Indians,” she said.
 
 This is her sixth visit to India and maiden trip to Kochi. She visited the synagogue and Jew Street in Mattancherry and met the remaining member of the Cochin Jews, Sarah Cohen. “India has been an important spiritual retreat for me and has inspired several ideas for my work,” said Shimoff, who celebrated her 60th birthday on February 3. As part of their celebrations, the couple decided to discover a new place in India.
 
 They choose Tamil Nadu and Kerala to relive their moments together, when at Madurai temple, Shimoff felt that they should renew their marriage vows by following Hindu rituals. “It is great to see how much they value traditions that we take for granted. They packed their garland after the ceremony and asked me to take the boat to mangrove forest, where they hung the garland on the tree after a prayer. Normally, people just throw them into the river,” said Peter Panathara from Salmon Tours, who arranged their Kerala trip.
 
