VADODARA: A day after his photo sitting on the   assembly speaker Rajendra Trivedi’s chair went viral on social media, the 23-year-old youngster has apologized for his act. 

 Rahul Parmar, a resident of Nagarwada area in the city, gave an apology letter at the city   unit’s office on Sunday evening.   said in his letter addressed to   that he is not an active BJP member. 
 
 The city unit of BJP was abuzz all day after Parmar’s photo sitting on the   started doing rounds. Parmar also took some other photographs and selfies in the assembly premises. While it was being claimed that Parmar was a BJP worker, the party’s city unit was clueless about this person.
 
 “Parmar came on Sunday evening and left an apology letter at our party office. He has said in his letter that he has a family to look after and therefore his apology be accepted and he be forgiven,” said  , general secretary, BJP city unit. Parmar wrote that he is employee of a company and he had gone to the assembly on Saturday with three of his colleagues as part of their official duty.
 
 ‘After we finished our work, we went into the assembly hall. We clicked photographs inside the hall. I also got myself photographed sitting on the assembly speaker’s chair and kept the pictures on the social media. I realize that it is an illegal act and I apologize for it,’ the letter read. He further said that he is a well-wisher of BJP but he has never held any post in the party. 
 
 Parmar also mentioned that he is a Dalit who comes from a middle-class family and his parents reprimanded him for sitting on the speaker’s chair. TOI tried to reach Parmar but he didn’t respond to the phone calls.
 
 Rokadia said that he didn’t know Parmar and wasn’t ever if he was a BJP member. “He shouldn’t have sat on the assembly speaker’s chair,” Rokadia said. 
 
 “It is usually difficult to move around freely in the assembly as there is lot of security. It’s surprising as to how Parmar managed to reach the speaker’s chair without anyone noticing him,” a BJP leader said. 
 
 
