NEW DELHI: Former Indian opener   has backed Virat Kohli’s team to “push   out of their comfort zone” in the much-anticipated Test series that starts today in Cape Town, while opining that the home team’s experienced pace attack can be negotiated by the Indian batsmen. 

 
 In 235 combined Test matches, the quartet of Dale Steyn, Morne Morkel, Vernon Philander and Kagiso Rabada has taken 976 wickets. Ishant Sharma, Mohammed Shami, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Umesh Yadav and Hardik Pandya have combined for 477 wickets in 164 Tests. 
 
 In his column for 
 , Srikkanth played down talk of South Africa’s attack being far superior to India’s and backed India’s batsmen to succeed if they play out testing periods and wait for the bowlers to flag. 
 
 “Contrary to what is being said, I don’t think this South African attack is menacing. They have a good attack and know how to use the conditions to their advantage, but that is something you expect from most top teams,” wrote the 58-year-old. “Morne Morkel and Dale Steyn are past their prime and are no longer the pacemen who can bounce batsman out. “Rabada and Philander can be negotiated and there is enough batting in the Indian rank to handle that threat. The pressure won’t be sustained and there will be periods of play where the batsmen can score freely. It would also depend on how India start the series.”
 
 India are ranked No 1 in the ICC Test Championship after a heavy home season, and the tour of Sri Lanka this last year, but have never won a series in South Africa. Since 1992, they have lost five series and drawn there. Srikkanth, who played 43 Tests and 146 ODIs, viewed this series, which spans three Tests, as a great opportunity for India to mend that sorry record in South Africa. 
 
 “This is India’s best chance to win a Test series in South Africa. In Vijay, Kohli, Rahane the visitors boast a strong top order, which has tasted success in these conditions. The true bounce and pace of the wicket in Cape Town should suit KL Rahul’s style of play. Generally, Indian batsmen like the ball coming onto the bat and if the new ball threat is staved of, they could be in for a treat,” he wrote. 
 
 “This current lot under Kohli is a confident lot and there is no fear of failure. They play to win and it will be interesting to see how they approach tough periods of play and how well they can mix caution and aggression.”
 
 “In a country where they returns have not been great, now is an opportunity to set the record straight. A potential new-ball department and a set of solid batsmen should push South Africa our of their comfort zone. A good time for Kohli and company to hand their fans a perfect new year gift.”
 
 
