MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: He proposed jumping into the river on whose banks they had stolen first cursory glances, and later met. But she objected, saying it was shallow. So, both of them settled for a noose. Sobbing uncontrollably, the girl, just 19, took the first plunge and the boy followed her. Their clothes were still damp with tears when their bodies were discovered hanging from a tree in a mango orchard of Sambhal district.
 
  Stories of suicides by couples with almost similar theme continued pouring in unabated from Western UP. Scores of couples, whose ties were opposed by their families, ended their lives in the region in the last fortnight. On Tuesday, two couples killed themselves in Sambhal and   districts.
  
  In Sambhal, a young couple consumed poison and died after their families refused to accept their relation. Their bodies were found behind a brick kiln on Hasanpur road in Nakhasa police station jurisdiction. This was the second suicide in the district in the last two days. On Sunday morning, a couple was found hanging from a tree in   village.
  
  Suresh, 22, and 19-year-old Neeraj knew each other for some time and wanted to marry. But, the girl’s relatives were hell bent against her choice. So they took the extreme step.
  
  Similarly, on Tuesday morning, a 42-year-old woman and her 28-year-old lover were found dead at a rented apartment in Meerut. The woman, a mother of two, was having an “illicit” relationship with the man 12 years elder to her. They killed themselves by consuming poison.
  
  This was the second case of suicide pact in Meerut region in the last one week. On Wednesday, a couple had committed suicide by consuming sulfas in Muzaffarnagar. The boy, 22, was a resident of Muzaffarnagar while the girl, 19, was from Ghaziabad. They took the grave step after their parents refused to get them married.
  
  
  
  Similarly, Mathura region witnessed has also witnessed suicides by two couples in the last 10 days. On Friday night, a young couple took their lives by hanging themselves from a tree in Mahrauli village.Kashiram, 23 and 19-year-old Guddan took the extreme step after the girl’s parents forcibly fixed her marriage to another boy. The marriage was scheduled for June 10.
  
  Incidentally, this was the second suicide case in Mathura in the past 10 day. Earlier on May 2, bodies of a young couple, who shot themselves, were found lying in a vacant house in Krishna Vihar colony.
