NEW DELHI: Until last month, the walls of Lodhi Road   had a powerful message for society. There were   of children saying it through sign language—   Today, the messages have been wiped out. Rather,  . Literally. 

 In its ongoing drive to beautify spaces under flyovers, keeping in mind the forthcoming Asean summit, the Delhi government’s PWD has whitewashed the walls. 
 
 Yogesh Saini, founder of Delhi Street Art, who had got together about 40 hearing impaired artists for the wall art, said it had taken days of hard work to put together the artwork. “The idea was to not only create awareness about  , but send a message that the hearing impaired want to be seen as able people. They know how to overcome their disability,” said Saini.
 
 At Moolchand flyover, too, the department has painted the walls that were painted by schoolchildren. Delhi Street Art had roped in the children to paint the walls with ‘environment’ as theme. Saini said the work at Moolchand was part of a cleaning exercise done by a group of people. 
 
 Both the flyovers were painted last year in March-April. “These people have been working on cleaning flyovers and removing posters. They had asked us to do wall art, as it will prevent people from defacing public property. Over two-three weekends, we had done the work with help of 40-50 schoolchildren. But now it is gone,” said Saini.
 
 He had raised this matter at a DUAC round-table on public art in Delhi, which was attended by Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Puri, on Monday. Addressing a gathering of artists, urban planners and other experts, Puri condemned it and asked the artists to give a list of such incidents.
 
 The housing and urban affairs ministry is focusing on planned aesthetic development in the city and wants to promot public art. He has tasked DUAC to prepare guidelines for public art in Delhi.
 
 Saini said there is a need to sensitise government officials responsible for maintenance of public infrastructure about street/public art. He said he had even asked PWD to tell him what kind of paint they use so that artists could use similar paints for artworks. But there has been no response from the government agency, he claimed. 
 
 Saini’s group had started the work at Kashmere Gate flyover near Hanuman temple in December. The work was stopped by PWD, he claimed. 
 
 When contacted, a PWD official said, “They didn’t take permission for the artwork. We have been asked to beautify spaces under flyovers.”
 
 
