PUNE: The New Year’s Eve celebrations in the city remained subdued with restaurants packing up earlier than expected in want of patrons.

 Most of them could not stick to the 5am extended deadline announced for the New Year’s Eve. They pulled shutters down as early as 1 am.
 
 Hotel and restaurant industry sources said outings to restaurants and bars on New Year’s Eve were tepid, with clubs and lounges reporting a 20% drop in liquor and food consumption as well as in customers’ footfall compared to the last year. Besides the fear of police on roads, the fact that New Year’s Eve this time was followed by a working day (Monday) deterred people from partying.
 
 Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers’ Association ( ), told TOI that the customers’ footfall practically ceased after 12.30am on New Year’s Eve. As a result, restaurants did not find it viable to stay open beyond 1am.
 
 “There was a good crowd on select streets, like Fergusson College Road, East Street, Koregaon Park and  , but crowds were thin in other locations. In the New Year’s Eve of 2017, restaurants had stayed open till 2am. But this time, it was quite subdued,” said Shetty.
 
 He said Monday being a working day was also a deterrent. “Though restaurants were allowed to stay open till 5am, much depends on the customers. They cannot be kept open through the night in face of less customer demand, as the cost of operations in the night is quite high,” he said.
 
 A top wine merchant said liquor shop counters looked deserted after 11am. “We did not get the kind of rush we had expected. It was not like a regular 31st night, when sales triple or quadruples. While the long weekend meant that many were outside Pune, police checks deterred those within the city. Though wine shops could stay open till 1am, most closed by 12midnight on New Year’s Eve this time,” he said.
 
 Prantik Ray, the general manager of  , said the business was not like the previous two-three New Year eves. “Crowds thronging Sunburn was one reason. The Kamla Mills disaster in Mumbai recently could have also caused a sort of fear among people, stopping them from night-outs. Room bookings were robust this New Year’s Eve, which meant the tourist flow to the city was decent. But the locals’ footfall seemed less, causing a 25% dip in food and liquor sales,” said Ray.
 
 Kunal Mhaske, restaurateur and owner of  , said many people chose hangouts closest to them to avoid getting stuck in traffic. “Business at our Baner outlet dipped, but other outlets did pretty well. We chose to shut at 1.30am despite the extended deadline. We had taken this decision earlier as the employees also had their own New Year’s Eve plans,” he said. 
 
 
