NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) general body on Tuesday approved the town planning department’s proposal to convert reservation of playground measuring 13,874.80 sq ft to residential at Friends Colony, Borgaon. The proposal was approved despite some corporators opposing it, citing prohibition on conversion of playground to other purposes by the high court.

 Now, NMC will send the general body’s decision to the state government, which will take the final decision.
 
 After mayor Nanda   put up the proposal for discussion in the general body,   corporators Tanaji Wanve, also leader of opposition, and   registered their objection to the proposal. “Playground reservation cannot be converted into residential at any cost. Even HC had prohibited conversion of reservation on playground lands,” they said.
 
 Another Congress corporator Manoj Sangole demanded shifting of reservation of park from one area to another in mouza Nari, to allow construction of a hospital. “Proposal is to develop a hospital but project is falling short of land. There is an open space reserved for park adjacent to the proposed site. There is another open space situated in other area. Reservation should be shifted from this particular land to other,” he demanded.
 
  corporator Jagdish Gwalbanshi demanded that the house should approve the Friends Colony playground proposal. “Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) had wrongly imposed reservation of playground on the land.”
 
 NMC assistant commissioner   also said the playground reservation was imposed on the land by mistake in the revised city development plan of 2001.
 
 Gudadhe said he would withdraw his objection in case reservation was imposed on the land by technical mistake.
 
 Jichkar announced approval to the proposal. Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi said proposal was approved as officials cited reservation was imposed on the land by mistake.
 
 However, documents in TOI’s possession raise questions on the claim that reservation was not imposed by mistake. TOI had, on March 3, highlighted NMC town planning department had sanctioned building plan, that too for commercial purpose, on the land despite the reservation being playground on March 31, 1984. On April 24, 2015, minister of state for urban development Ranjit Patil had directed an inquiry into the sanction given to commercial building on land reserved for playground.
 
 Friends   had got sanctioned the layout in 1,21,856.60 sq m area. Residential use was approved in 70,000 sq m, roads on 30,585 sq m, and open space on 21,280.60 sq m, on December 7, 1981. Open spaces were marked at six different locations in the layout. One of the open spaces with reservation of playground was this particular land.
 
 The society had objected to this, saying the land reserved for open spaces was more than the provisions of the Act. However, no decision has ever been taken on the society’s demand. Then, the society went on to get sanction for a building plan for commercial purpose, and sold the land to Tekchand Waswani on December 2, 1989, who constructed commercial structures there.
 
 
