MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Tuesday asked whether any identification parade was done on police officers from   who allegedly stopped a private bus and "abducted  

 
 Shaikh, his wife Kausar Bi and Tulsiram Prajapati" when they were travelling from Hyderabad to Sangli on November 22, 2005 at 1.30 am. The police were in a jeep. Shaikh and his wife were killed in an alleged fake encounter by the police two days later. Justice Revati Mohite Dere asked this while hearing submissions of Shaikh's brother, Rubabuddin Shaikh, who has challenged the discharge granted by a trial court to three cops including Rajkumar Pandian an IPS officer from Gujarat.
 
 Rubabuddin's counsel Gautam Tiwari said that there was no identification parade conducted. "That's what. It should have been done. It was one of the grounds in their discharge applications." But he said that lack of an identification parade ought not to have weighed much before trial. "Even if there is a lacuna in investigation on part of investigation agency, it would be corrected during trial," he said. Tiwari made submissions all afternoon on how a team of Gujarat police officials had stopped the bus and jumped in to abduct the trio.
 
 Tiwari in his arguments said there was evidence to show that the vehicle's number plates were tampered with to avoid detection.
 
 The HC also asked whether any Hyderabad police officers were made an accused in the case, the answer to which was "no". "It is politically Gujarat specific," said senior counsel Mahesh Jethmalani, who appeared for Pandian.
 
 Tiwari argued that as stated by a witness, a police driver, Nathubhai Jadeja, another accused police officer Ajay Parmar did not join the team when they returned from Hyderabad to Ahmedabad. But pointing to a report of a forensic laboratory, Tiwari said that it was in fact, Parmar who flew back to Ahmedabad as could be seen from the handwriting on the pre-boarding formalities. He placed reliance on it to show that there was a conspiracy involving the police where Pandian's case that he had flown back to Ahmedabad, doesn't stand.
 
