NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   wants food commissioner   suspended. Food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain on Friday wrote to the CM, pointing out “large-scale pilferage of food grains” on fake   cards in March, and also recommending this course of action. The   then gave his sanction to it, after which the letter was sent to LG Anil Baijal. 

 The demand has come after the recent CAG audit indicated huge pilferage by flagging the use of bikes, three-wheelers and buses to transport ration in Delhi. Kejriwal had previously alleged that the LG was ignoring his repeated requests for removing Meena despite complaints about ration distribution.
 
 The government claimed the pilferage was unearthed when Hussain on March 21 asked the department to provide data related to the distribution of ration to beneficiaries using one-time passwords. Data revealed that one phone number was used to verify and distribute ration to 500 beneficiaries when guidelines say only one phone can be attached to a ration card. The OTP system was implemented in March, and stopped by the government on March 21. 
 
 The government also urged the LG to approve the government’s scheme for doorstep delivery of ration and to scrap the existing e-PoS (electronic point of sale) system that requires biometric identification. The system has been criticised for repeated failures in biometric authentication too. The doorstep delivery of ration was also one of the much talked about points in the government’s white paper on the LG’s office presented during the budget session. 
 
 Deputy CM Manish Sisodia, at a presser, claimed that this new system adopted from January 1 was leading to “open theft”. “The LG and the officers like the present system of ration distribution even though it is leading to theft. They are not bothered about the poor who are being deprived of the ration,” said Sisodia. The AAP government has been claiming that this system, which requires Aadhaar verification, has deprived a lot of beneficiaries. 
 
 “The OTP system has provided a legal route to obtain ration using fake ration cards,” Hussain has written. 
 
 The suspension demand could further strain the relationship between the elected government and the bureaucracy. 
 
 
