Surat: The DNA profile test has established mother-daughter relationship between the brutalized and raped 11-year-old-girl and the woman whose decomposed body was found on April 9, three days after the minor’s was found on Jiav-Budiya Road in Pandesara. The woman’s body was found a km away from the bushes where the little girl was dumped on April 6. However, her mother was raped and murdered on March 22, before the girl was killed and dumped there. Earlier, prime accused Harsahai Gurjar’s brother Harisinh had also identified the woman as the girl’s mother from the clothes that she had worn. As no one had found the woman’s body, Gurjar again chose a location in the same locality to dump her daughter’s body.  It was only after 18 days that some locals informed the police about the woman’s body. However, as it was badly decomposed, it made investigating the case even more challenging for the police. Had the woman’s body been found earlier, there was a possibility that the girl’s life could have been saved. “The DNA profiling confirmed that the woman and the girl are mother and daughter. The woman’s body was dumped behind thick bushes due to which it could not be noticed by anyone. Further, no missing persons report was registered with the police,” city police commissioner Satish Sharma said. In fact, three more unidentified bodies were found from the same area between March 11 and March 14 of which two were suspectedly murdered. This has raised questions about the police vigil in Pandesara area. On March 11, a man was found hanging from a tree near Dipli crossroads on Sachin-Magdalla highway. Postmortem of the body revealed that he had been murdered. On March 13, body of a man, who was murdered, was found from an open plot behind Nava Maholla in Bamroli. An unidentified woman’s body was found from an apartment in Bhestan, too, on March 14. All these bodies were found within 3 km area in Pandesara. Gurjar had killed woman in a car in the presence of her daughter. Later, after killing the mother, the accused dumped the girl’s body around 1 km away on April 6.