Intolerance of various kinds is on the rise all around us, online and offline. From mere bullying to taking someone’s life for the silliest of reasons, it takes many shapes and forms and Kerala isn’t an exception. Often, the easily quoted solution for this is that one should ‘teach kids to behave’ right from a young age, at homes. I’m not saying we can forget the family’s role in the process, but it’s at schools that they spent the maximum amount of time. Are there effective mechanisms in our curriculum today which teach kids to be humane citizens?

 Every school time table has an hour dedicated for moral science in which children are supposed to be imparted ethics, values and life lessons. But the period isn’t given the same importance as physics, math or chemistry, and often ends up being a namesake. I spoke to Anita Krishnan, a senior faculty member of Holy Angels ISC School, Thiruvananthapuram, who agrees that we need to take up the subject seriously. “Education’s primary aim should be to create good human beings, not just scholars. I would say that going forward, schools should strictly implement steps to impart a value-based education system to the young generation. We should make it a compulsory subject in the curriculum, and the stress should be on teaching children to respect differences of opinion, which is the need of the hour,” she says. 
 
 S Jaishree, faculty at MOP Vaishnav College for Women in Chennai, is of the opinion that moral education classes at schools can be made a lot more interesting using videos, animation and practical exercises. “We can make value education classes part of the credit system in colleges too. Students can be asked to share their experiences of demonstrating the importance of values in their lives. It will motivate others,” she says.
 
 At the same time, teachers say that one should demonstrate the values taught at school. Jaishree says, “For example, we can teach them to be kind to others but that needs to be demonstrated in real life too, by the elders. There are more chances of the children imbibing it, for real.”
 
 Most of all, it is important to ensure that moral science is not just a subject to score marks or credits, she says. It sure is not easy, but if schools genuinely try to see the bigger picture and take some novel steps, our future generations can be taught to see the black, white and grey sides in people and incidents around us. 
 
