When I examine patients addicted to  , I am not concerned about what he is today but worried for what he will be tomorrow.

 
 During my tenure in the Army, I had the opportunity to travel to different parts of the country. I got to know about different lifestyles, food habits and traditions. 
 
 However, one distinct habit that I came across was the use of tobacco.
 
 Tobacco and alcohol pose the highest risk factors for oral cavity and oropharyngeal cancer. Mouth cancer is largely a lifestyle disease, meaning that a majority of cases are related to tobacco and alcohol use. Approximately 90% of people with mouth cancer are tobacco users. 
 
 People who give up tobacco even after many years of use, can live a much better life than a chronic tobacco user, as it greatly reduces their risk of all related illnesses, including mouth cancer. The best way to avoid these cancers is to never start smoking or chewing tobacco in any form.
 
 In India, doctors are concerned about the rise in pre-cancerous lesions in the mouth, which they’re convinced are caused by chewing tobacco. The surging popularity of chewable or smokeless tobacco, particularly among the young, is worrisome. Children began using gutka six or seven years ago. Mouth cancer has a 10-year incubation period, so doctors fear a huge bout of oral cancer will hit India in a few years.
 
 Paan masala products are also dangerous as they contain arecanut, a potential cancer-causing agent.   have addictive properties similar to caffeine, tobacco and alcohol, and can lead to a high number of cases of submucous fibrosis, which can become malignant.
 
 India has a high incidence of oral cancer due to tobacco use, and according to the Global Adult Tobacco Survey, the age of initiation of tobacco habits in India is as young as 17 years. As per the findings in the report, almost one million people die of oral cancer in India every year.
 
 All forms of tobacco use and alcohol abuse are known risk factors for oropharyngeal cancer. Almost 57% of all men and 11% of women between 15 and 49 years of age use some form of tobacco in India. 
 
 Cancers are the most common cause of death in adults. Oral cancer is any malignant neoplasm found on the lip, floor of the mouth, cheek lining, gingiva, palate or on the tongue. It is among the top three types of cancers in India. Severe alcoholism, use of tobacco like cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, betel nut-chewing are the most common risk factors for mouth cancer. The incidence of oral cancer is highest in India.
 
 The   has predicted that India’s incidence of cancer will increase from one million at present to more than 1.7 million by 2035.
 
 Cancer registration is not compulsory in India, so the true incidence and mortality may be higher as many cases are unrecorded.
 
 Despite the known dangers of tobacco to oral health, and the availability of solutions to reduce related death and disease, knowledge among large sections of the public that tobacco is one of the leading causes of oral cancer is low.
 
 Most of the people are not aware of the consequences, hence everyone should make a determined effort to motivate these people to give up use of tobacco products. Even if one succeeds in helping a single person give up tobacco, it is as good as saving one life.
 
 “Replacing the smoke on someone’s face with a smile today will replace illness in his life with happiness tomorrow. Quit now.”
 
 The writer is former lieutenant colonel of the   and president of the Indian Dental Association, Goa.
 
 
