NEW DELHI: A 10-year-old boy was instrumental in bringing colour to the 68-year-long black and white world of   judgments through a beautiful hand-made card expressing gratitude to the judges for settling a bitter seven-year-long matrimonial dispute between his parents.

 
 The judges, who follow the law, seldom look for appreciation for their efforts in penning a judgment or settling an entangled matrimonial dispute and even rarely take anything from either litigants or lawyers as an expression of gratitude.
 
 But a bench of Justices   and M   happily made the exception, given joyous exuberance of the boy to present a card to them as an innocent expression of gratitude for settling the festering dispute between his father and mother, even if it could not succeed in keeping them together.
 
 After their marriage in 1997, the couple had two children — a 20-year-old girl and the boy. Marital disputes and differences emerged and they started living separately since 2011. The bench summed up the viciousness of the marital discord: “They are involved in various litigations, civil as well as criminal. As of now, 23 cases are pending before trial courts, high courts and the Supreme Court as well as consumer forum.”
 
 The knots were not easy to unravel. Attempts were first made by Justice   of Punjab and   HC, followed by SC-appointed amicus curiae and senior advocate  , both of whom earned praise from the   though were unable to take the couple towards a settlement. The bench decided to call them to their chamber. 
 
 The priestly intervention by Justices Joseph and Shantanagoudar and the tireless efforts by them convinced the parties about the futility of litigation and made them bury the hatchet. The bench accepted the settlement and ordered dismissal of all the pending litigation between them.
 
 But the bench could not save the marriage as the couple decided to part ways for good through divorce by mutual consent. The SC agreed knowing that most happy endings have a tinge of bitterness. Saving them from the queues in family courts for getting a divorce decree, the bench passed an order dissolving their marriage.
 
 It asked the husband to transfer a plot of land in Panchkula district jointly in the names of the erstwhile wife and two children and pay them Rs 50,000. Writing the judgment Justice Joseph said: “Before parting with the judgment, we may hasten to observe that what has been closed is not simply twenty three cases; in the background of both the parties, they would have easily gone for many more litigations in the coming years.”
 
 The bench said the family courts must realise that Section 9 of the Family Courts Act, 1984, not only mandates them to decide matrimonial disputes, but also casts a duty on them to “make an endeavour to assist and persuade the parties in arriving at a settlement”.
 
