Pune: Ninad, like most 4-year-olds, looks forward to meeting his friends at the regular preschool every morning. But just two years ago, his mother Amruta recalls, Ninad was a very withdrawn child. “As Ninad approached his second birthday, he had stopped making eye contact. He would not even look at me. It was as if he was slipping away. I was very worried,” says Amruta. “Today, however, I feel he is going to do fine,” she says.

 When Rohit started attending a regular preschool a year ago, his family was similarly overjoyed. Rohit’s father Avinash reveals, “He was born pre-term. Doctors had cautioned that Rohit was at risk of developmental disorders.” With regular follow-ups with the neonatologist, Rohit was shifted to the care of a developmental specialist. Avinash and his wife were given home programmes to stimulate Rohit’s development. “His development was initially delayed. His brain scan had shown changes suggestive of early stage cerebral palsy. But because of the timely intervention, Rohit can walk, run and do other activities today,” Avinash said.
 
 The enormous impact that early intervention can have is why the Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), Pune branch, has decided to raise awareness about early identification of the warning signs of   Spectrum Disorder (ASD), and related developmental disorders, in children. “The earlier ASD is identified and treated, the better. That’s because the younger we are, the more adaptable our brains are. Early intervention can stimulate the young brain to reroute itself around faulty neural pathways,” said developmental paediatrician and neurologist Leena Srivastava of Bharati Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital. “Children on the autism spectrum, depending on the severity and co-morbidities, have the potential to improve if they are diagnosed and treated early,” said Srivastava who is the national secretary of IAP’s Neuro Developmental Paediatrics.
 
 Neonatologist Nandini Malshe said, “Sensitising parents about regular follow-ups for monitoring the growth and development can help in picking up early signs of developmental delays.”
 
 
