MUMBAI: A 24-year-old woman has to serve three months in jail for assaulting a woman   posted at   after she was stopped from entering through an exit during the  . A sessions court on Wednesday dismissed Priyanka Dhuri’s appeal against a 2017 conviction by a lower court.

 
  
 
 The court said a serious view needed to be taken due to the nature of the offences — voluntarily causing hurt and using force to deter a public servant from performing her duty. “Hurt was caused to informant (police constable Kavita Palekar). Her work, as public servant, was deterred. Accused by entering from exit gate, holding collar of the woman police constable proved the intention to deter public servant from discharging duty as public servant,” the sessions court observed.
 
 In her appeal before the sessions court, the woman said no independent witnesses were examined; all witnesses were police personnel. Besides the victim, three other cops present at the spot had deposed. The accused added that there was a delay of three months in registering the FIR after the incident took place on September 16, 2013. Even   was not collected.
 
 Refuting Dhuri’s defence, the sessions court said although it was true that the FIR was not promptly registered, the fact remained that the victim cop had given her statement on the date of the incident and also gave a complaint to the Kalachowky police station the following day. “She cannot be blamed for not registering the FIR till December 8, 2013. Her complaint itself was the FIR. That was prompt,” the court said.
 
 It further held that the medical officer found abrasions on the neck and hand of the cop. “It is not strange that independent witnesses are not examined. Persons coming for darshan are from different areas. Presence of accused on the spot and the act of entering the gate is not at all disputed,” the court said. The sessions court added that there was no reason for the victim to make a false complaint.
 
 “Collecting CCTV footage is one of the ways of evidence. Merely because CCTV footage is not collected, evidence of eyewitnesses, particularly the injured informant, cannot be ignored and brushed aside.” The court refuted Dhuri’s claim that the lower court sentence was harsh. The metropolitan magistrate had taken into consideration that the accused is a woman and hence, awarded simple imprisonment for three months and imposed a fine of Rs 50.
 
