KOCHI: The   ( ) has finally taken up the task of roping in urban planners, who could find out ways to improve basic infrastructure facilities in Kochi city. Though the Kochi corporation and other local self- government bodies have been trying to bring in experts to help chalk out plans to develop an otherwise unplanned city, these efforts never turned successful.

 As the Metro agency releases advertisements on behalf of   (CSML) for appointment of urban planners, the local bodies welcome the move. However, they express their apprehensions about the usefulness of the services rendered by the experts.
 
 “It seems the service of the urban planner will be limited to the project area of  . In that case the entire Kochi city and its suburbs would not benefit from it. The urban planners should lead the way for implementing a masterplan,” said a former official from town planning department.
 
 He said urban development does not mean just implementation of large scale infrastructure projects.
 
 The focus should be on making Kochi a more liveable and people-friendly city. Hence, the urban planner’s service should be extended to the entire Kochi corporation limits and suburbs.
 
 “The urban planner should work hand-in-hand with Kochi corporation,  , district administration, KMRL and other agencies and chalk out solutions which results in the urban development,” added the official.
 
 Meanwhile, the Kochi corporation which has constantly demanded to appoint urban planners, structural engineers and traffic experts said that they were hopeful about the new move. “Mayor Soumini Jain represents the local body in CSML. She can always take up the matters concerning the local body with the experts available with the Smart City project,” said P M Harris, works standing committee chairperson. The Metro agency is also looking for graduates in civil engineering or architecture with post graduate degree in panning (urban/housing/ infrastructure planning) to associate with the Smart City project. KMRL said the applicants should have a minimum of seven years of experience.
 
 
