Mysuru: NITI Aayog additional secretary R Ramanan, said, “With over 60% of its population being young, India has a   advantage like no other country. A GDP growth of 7.5% witnessed by India is unheard of in many other countries.” He was addresing graduating students of the   arts, commerce, and science college, here on Friday.

 He said the present economic scenario in the country is highly conducive for young graduates. He said, “One couldn’t have graduated at a better time than this, when the country is providing many opportunities, and supporting those who fuel innovation, apart from having entrepreneurial skills.”
 
 Urging students to make use of their learning to fulfil their dreams, Ramanan said, “You are at the cusp, where all learning can be put to use and made a reality, and all your dreams can be lived. You are faced with opportunities which you can lap up in order to make a difference.”
 
 Calling upon the students to hone their entrepreneurial abilities in order to become job creators, he said, “Innovation and entrepreneurship are essential in India. Most of us focus on scoring well in our exams in order to join private sector companies or to take up a government job. Our job is not to make a living, but our job is to become job creators.”
 
 Stating that graduating is not the be all and end all to a students life, he said, “All knowledge will be rendered obsolete in the next 1.5 years. Constant learning and upgrading of knowledge are essential to be a cut above the rest.”
 
 He asked students to dream big and chase their dreams. He said, “I urge you all to read A P J Abdul Kalam’s book ‘Ignited minds’. Hailing from a small town called Rameshwaram, Kalam dreamt big and fulfilled his dreams to become the greatest President the country has ever witnessed. Everybody should have big dreams and chase them. Swami Vivekananda too said one has to have faith in himself and confidence in himself to realize his dreams.”
 
 Pointing to the role played by teachers and parents in the growth and development of an individual, he said, “We are the result of the hard work put in by our parents to raise us, the sacrifices they have made for us, and the love and dedication shown by them to us. Teaching is the noblest profession as teachers only want the welfare of their students.”
 
 
