GUNTUR: Charging the Narendra Modi-led NDA government with betrayals and hatching conspiracies, Andhra Pradesh chief minister   announced on Saturday that he will sit on a one-day fast in Amaravati on the occasion of his birthday on April 20 to protest the Centre’s non-cooperation with the state.

 Stating that Prime Minister   was junior to him in politics, the CM averred: “I became chief minister in 1995 whereas Modi became CM in 2002.” Naidu said the TDP will play a crucial role at the Centre in the coming days.
 
 Marking   at an event in Inavolu village falling under the capital city area in Guntur district, Naidu said “I will sit on a fast on my birthday to force the Centre to fulfil the assurances made in the  , including special category status (SCS) and implementing the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act. The Modi-led government has completely betrayed the people of AP on the   issue. I will expose their failures through my hunger strike.”
 
 
 
 
 Naidu then attacked Modi, saying that his fight was not only against the Centre, but also against Narendra Modi. “How can the PM sit on a fast when it is the ruling coalition that was behind the non-functioning of Parliament,” he said. Referring to the promise of granting SCS made in Tirupati when Modi was a prime ministerial candidate four years ago, Naidu said: “It is very unjust to not implement that promise. We want to remind the nation of his promises which is why a huge public meeting will be organised in Tirupati on April 30.”
 
 The theme for the Tirupati public meeting will be: 'Let us save the state from betrayal and conspiracies’, Naidu said. He egged on partymen saying “Let us show what the TDP is, not just to the Centre but to the entire country. We played a crucial role at the Centre before and we will play a crucial role once again. I urge the people of the state to ensure that the TDP bags all the 25 Lok Sabha seats in AP so that it can play a crucial role at the Centre.”
 
 “The opposition parties in the state are resorting to collusion politics. The Centre is doing collusion and conspiracy politics. The opposition called for bandh to disrupt normalcy in the state. Let us show our protest in a peaceful manner”, Naidu said in conclusion.
 
 Naidu unveiled the designs of the ‘Ambedkar Smriti Van’ to be built in Amaravati spread over 20 acres at a cost of ₹100 crore on the occasion of Ambedkar Jayanti.
 
 
