CHENNAI: In an incident that created panic among visitors at the  , a man stabbed his estranged girlfriend repeatedly and later turned the knife on himself in broad daylight on Tuesday.

 Police said Nandini (name changed), 22, a postgraduate student in mathematics at a private college in Anna Nagar, sustained six cut injuries to her chest, right shoulder and stomach and underwent a surgery, while N Rajesh, 23, an electrical engineer working in Coimbatore, had four self-inflicted cuts.
 
 They were admitted to different private hospitals in   where their condition is said to be stable. Police said the woman is from   while Rajesh belongs to Ponneri. Eyewitnesses told police that they heard the screams of the woman at around 2.15pm and rushed to a spot behind a public toilet in the park to find her bleeding with injuries to the chest. Noticing the crowd, the panicked attacker stabbed himself.
 
 
 
 Bystanders subsequently rushed them to nearby hospitals and informed police.
 
 A police official said the two were schoolmates and had known each other since Class IX. He said the couple told police that they had decided to end their relationship and arranged for a meeting at the park to return the gifts they had exchanged. The woman came to meet him after finishing her classes.
 
 Police said a heated argument broke out between them, following which the woman tried to leave but the man whipped out a knife and stabbed her.
 
 The scene of the crime attracted a crowd of gawkers who came to see the blood splattered on the grass, the shoes left behind by the man and the woman’s handkerchief.
 
 “I saw the girl bleeding and crying out for help,” said Murali, an autodriver who had come to have lunch in the park. A case has been registered at Anna Nagar police station and further investigations are on.
 
 Meanwhile, police officials said they had asked couples not to occupy secluded areas in the park as they may be confronted by anti-social elements. Police also said they would request the Chennai corporation to put up fences in such areas to prevent couples from venturing inside.
 
 
