HYDERABAD: Turning critical towards Hyderabad's Afzalgunj station house officer and the GHMC officials for failing to protect a complainant, who pointed out footpath encroachments, from physical attacks, the Hyderabad High Court on Tuesday warned that it will fix the responsibility on the SHO. 

 HC sought to know from the authorities as to how they can allow such attacks, conveying wrong signals that those who approach courts are not safe. The bench of Acting Chief Justice   and Justice K   expressed its displeasure when it was told by  , a complainant who brought to the notice of the court about the footpath encroachments at Siddiamber Bazaar and Mahabubganj in Hyderabad, that he was physically assaulted by some men. 
 
 The bench said that the SHO of Afzalgunj will be held responsible for further safety. Lakshmi Nivas Agarwal has been filing several cases and pursuing them to ensure the removal of the encroachments on pavements. On Tuesday, he said that he was attacked and alleged that the local traders who encroached pavements and officers colluded to attack him. He urged the court to summon the   footage to identify those who attacked him. The bench called for a report and warned that inaction on the part of officers will be viewed seriously. 
 
 The bench said that it would get a probe done into the attack on the complainant and would ensure punishment to the perpetrators of the attack. It sought an affidavit from the complainant on the attack. 
 
 The bench has been monitoring this case and, at one stage, warned the traders who occupied footpaths that they have to face penal consequences because they are giving undertaking to the court that they will abide by the law, but immediately violating their own undertaking after some time. The bench had even summoned the GHMC commissioner in one of the earlier hearings. 
 
 In a separate development, the bench took on record the letter written by a professor,   who complained of Hyderabad pavements being encroached. The bench called for counter from the GHMC, the Hyderabad police, town planning wing and adjourned the case to three weeks. The bench sought to know from the authorities the steps they have taken to keep the pavements free from encroachments. 
 
 
