Conservator of forests, Madurai Circle, R K Jegania explains to Arockiaraj Johnbosco on how the trekkers were misled in the name of trekking and the need to monitor private eco-tourism groups to prevent future mishaps.

 Q: What ​​is the procedure to take out trekking inside forests?
 
 A: The forest department promote​s trekking inside forests to sensitise ​the ​public ​about forest and conservation of nature. ​There are assigned trekking paths managed by village eco-development committees (EDC). After the trekkers obtain permission from the department, EDC members will accompany the trekkers, taking them safely in the assigned trekking routes.
 
 Q: How did the trekkers get caught in the ill-fated area?
 
 A: Apart from the pre-determined trekking routes, there are coupe routes which were once used by the department to extract timber from the forest. Eco-tourism agencies lure gullible trekking enthusiasts with attractive packaging, collecting a lot of money and drop them in some resort on the Kerala side. From there, they are taken in these coupe routes in the name of trekking, with some companions who know terrain. The incident on Sunday is one such venture which had a terrible end.
 
 Q: Can’t the department close down these coupe routes to prevent such misadventures?
 
 A: Though timber extraction has stopped, these coupe routes are used by department for patrolling. Besides, there are numerous such routes inside the forest and closing all of them is not practical.
 
 Q: Do these private eco-tourism groups have to register with the forest department?
 
 A: At present there are no such norms like registering, although it is mandatory for anyone to obtain prior permission to enter forest areas including trekking expeditions.
 
 Q: What is the future course of action to prevent such mishaps?
 
 A: Apart from introducing monitoring these eco-tourism groups, we are also planning to sensitise the public to ensure that organisers have obtained prior permission from the forest department before taking out any adventure activities inside the forest. They will have to approach the forest department if they want to take out trekking expeditions.
 
 
