CHANDIGARH: Three months since the inauguration of the Sector-38-West  , the public is yet to be let in, even though the area councillor has used it twice. He claims the municipal corporation might not have the staff to run it, while the residents accuse him of using delaying tactics.

 Residents fear the MC will ask them to buy membership of this centre like it’s some exclusive club. Already, they have argued with the councillor over it, which is why they believe he was delaying the process. During a visit to the community centre, the TOI team saw how the huge facility built for Rs 4.75 crore lay idle.
 
 The 1-acre campus with 16,000 square feet of covered surface area includes an air-conditioned, sound proof hall with seating capacity of 450. It has modular kitchen, pantry, bridal make-up room, family room, and an open-air kitchen. It has a provision for an e-Sampark centre to link the ward with various citizen-centric services of the   Administration. People are dying to use its well-equipped gym and well-stocked library.
 
 In the government records, this land was earmarked for a dispensary and community centre. After the residents claimed there was no need of a dispensary in this area, the UT chief architect approved the project to turn it into a community centre exclusively.
 
 Sunil Kumar, executive member of Sector-38 West’s active resident welfare association, said: “Since the inauguration of the community centre, the area councillor has held the Lohri and Republic Day functions at the place, besides allowing some residents to use the space for yoga practice. When a politician can come into the centre built with the taxpayers’ money and hold any function, why can’t the taxpayers come in?”
 
 HIG (higher income group) lower resident welfare association president   said the community centres built in the other parts of the city were operational, so the excuse that people can’t be let in before the MC is finished with making its policy does not hold.
 
 Sector 38 West resident welfare association president   said: “When the councillor can hold functions at this venue without any permission from the corporation, why should the general public be kept waiting outside this long-awaited centre in their neighbourhood. When all residents of this sector can become the members of the community centre, why should the area councillor or any other official demand any verification?”
 
 Box:
 
 In the dock
 
 It seems that the municipal authorities do not have the staff to run this community centre. Otherwise, in the past one month, I have asked them many times to throw it open to public. The authorities concerned seem to be short of security guards in particular for this centre, so they are hesitant to open it without proper security. I will take up the matter again in the house meeting of April and try that residents get to use the community centre soon
 
  | area councillor
 
 
