NEW DELHI: A 60-year-old real estate businessman allegedly committed suicide at his house in Vasant Vihar when a team of   visited his house to probe a case of cheating registered against him. While the cops were questioning his family members, the man, Virendra Dhingra, allegedly went to the  , locked it from outside, and jumped off the fourth floor. 

 Police said a suicide note was found in his pocket in which he mentioned about being harassed over some money he had taken from some people known to him. Cops had registered a case of attempt to commit suicide against him after this since he was recuperating at a hospital, but he died later. Family members have alleged that the cops threatened him due to which he had taken the extreme step.
 
 Police said that the other case against Dhingra was registered after the complainant had approached the Saket court last year. A non-bailable warrant was issued against him. Dhingra owns a property business in GK-II which he runs along with his son. 
 
 The incident was reported around 9.30pm on April 30, when a team from the CR Park police station had reached Dhingra’s house to question his son Sanjeev regarding the other case. During this, they came to know that Dhingra too was present in the house. DCP (southwest) Milind Dumbere said that the family members had asked the police team to wait for him, but after some time they heard a thud and found Dhingra lying in a pool of blood when they went to check.
 
 He was admitted to a private hospital in Vasant Kunj where he died during treatment. In his suicide note, Dhingra claimed that he was under pressure from a few people from whom he had taken some money and had failed to return it. He claimed that he was harassed by some of them and could not bear it.
 
 Dhingra’s son Sanjeev has, however, told the cops that the police team that had arrived at their house went up to the servant quarter and tried to catch hold of his father due to which he panicked and jumped from the terrace. 
 
 Police said that a case under section 309 IPC (attempt to commit suicide) was registered given the circumstances under which Dhingra had jumped from the terrace.
 
 Sanjeev, however, said that the police team had climbed to the terrace and tried to chase Dhingra due to which he had lost balance and fell over the parapet. The body was handed over to the family members on Monday.
 
 
