CHANDIGARH: In the fourth phase of farm   scheme, the Punjab government is going to hand over Rs 485 crore farm debt waiver certificates in Sangrur on April 12. A total of 73,748 eligible   from six districts would be covered in the function.

 The decision to this effect was taken on Friday. Additional chief secretary Viswajeet Khanna, told TOI, “Farmers of the left over districts including Sangrur, Patiala, Mohali, Ropar, Fatehgarh Sahib and   would be handed over debt waiver certificates amounting to a total of Rs 485 crore in the April 12 function.”
 
 Chief minister   would be handing over the debt waiver certificates to the farmers at the Sangrur function to be attended by several Congress leaders. The Congress government has kept aside Rs 4,200 crore in the 2018-19 budget for the farm debt waiver scheme. Till date, the state government has disbursed Rs 460 crores debt waiver certificates to around 1.25 lakh farmers in the three phases.
 
 Under the farm debt waiver scheme, the state government is providing a loan waiver of maximum Rs 2 lakh to all small or marginal farmer. Also, to avail benefits of the scheme, farmers are required to provide a self-declaration that they have not taken any other loan for any other piece of land except the land being considered under the current debt waiver phase. The chief minister has assured that after completing the debt relief scheme of cooperative bank loans, the Punjab government will soon start waiving off loans taken from commercial banks. This process would be completed by the end of this year.
 
 The state government had launched the farm debt waiver scheme from Mansa on January 7, in which Rs 167 crore farm loan of 46,556 farmers was waived off. The second function was held at Jalandhar on March 14 and farm debt waiver certificates worth Rs 162 crore were distributed to 29,192 farmers of five districts. In the third function held at   on April 5, around 50,000 farmers were distributed Rs 200 crore debt waiver certificates of six districts. These districts included Gurdaspur, Pathankot, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahr, Amritsar and Tarn Taran.
 
 
