Vadodara: The city BJP unit faced a huge embarrassment when the state vice- president of its youth wing Vikas Dubey targeted Vadodara MP and city unit president Ranjan Bhatt on the social media. Dubey made allegations of corruption and high-handedness against Bhatt.

 Dubey had started targeting Bhatt since Wednesday evening. While the first couple of posts did not name anyone, he directly targeted Bhatt late in the night when he said that he would intiate a public movement against the corruption and Hitler-like approach of the MP who is also the city unit president.
 
 Rutvij Patel, meanwhile, removed Dubey from the post of the state unit vice president.
 
 The posts were shared widely, screenshots were soon taken and circulated on Whatsapp. Even Bhatt was apprised of the posts late in the night. 
 
 Dubey even apologized for the posts within an hour but removed the apology again. Later, he also removed the posts directly hinting at Bhatt.
 
 But enough damage had been done by the time Dubey stepped back on the social networking site. Sources said that Bhatt called state BJP president Jitu Vaghani and BJP youth wing president Rutvij Patel to inform them about the posts.
 
 Dubey said that he had made the posts out of frustration as he was being sidelined and ignored. “I am expected in meetings and other programmes of the party as a state-level office bearer, but was never given invites. Even the city unit youth wing did not do so and its members said that it was a collective decision of the party to ignore me. I have been subjected to such insult for several months now,” he said.
 
 Bhatt even met Dubey at the city unit BJP office late in the evening. She said that the posts had their roots in the internal issues of the youth wing.
 
 “Giving him invites is my responsibility, so why target me? He could have informed me about not being called to meetings and programmes, but he never did so. If I am involved in corruption, he should prove it,” she said. After the meeting, Dubey said that Bhatt had heard him and denied that she was behind him in being overlooked.
 
 
