CHANDIGARH: Confusion over house tax notices served by the Chandigarh Municipal Corporation with arrears is a major issue for residents and industrialists. During the TOI in conversation event, residents and industrialists of Sector 47 and Industrial Area, phases I and II took it up with additional commissioner,  . 

 They asked why the civic body is asking residents to pay house tax and   for the period when it was not even imposed in the city. 
 
 Chandigrah mayor Davesh   said the entire property tax record of the city will go online in May. “Chandigarh has around 1,52,000 properties. Initially, when the self-assessment scheme of paying property tax was introduced, people did not fill the right assessment. Properties were on the higher side and their assessment was wrong. We had around 22,000 taxpayers before notices were sent to residents. We toned down the language of notices and sent around 15,000 property tax notices. In the last six months, around 300 returns were filed every day and we collected around Rs 40 lakh per day. We also collected Rs 42 crore as property tax in the last six months. We need money to have a smart city,” said Moudgil, adding that tax should not be a burden for city residents. 
 
 Bhupinder Singh Saini, an industrialist of industrial area phase I, said the   served property tax notices saying industrialist have to pay tax with arrears from 2004 even though tax was imposed in 2007, as authorities do not have tax payers’ records. He said the tax department is not responding to the communications of industrialists. He said he wrote three letters to the department but has not received reply to a single one. 
 
 Additional commissioner Anil Garg said, “This property tax is a self-assessment scheme and we were compelled to send notices since people did not come forward to pay property tax. Every resident is supposed to come forward and pay this tax since it is a self-assessment scheme.” 
 
 Baljinder Singh Bittu, president, FOSWAC asked the mayor to extend the deadline for deposition of house tax for residents as they got less time to pay tax. He also said a large number of residents received notices due to miscalculation of house tax. Residents, he said, received notices on March 21, 2018 through the courier letter dated March 1, 2018 and they were asked to pay tax by March 31, 2018 which is not possible.
 
 
