VIJAYAWADA: Fair price shops across Krishna district are regularly misappropriating the subsidised foodgrains provided to them, either by tampering weighing scales, or by forging handwritten registers.

 While illegal transportation of PDS rice is prevalent in the district, the PDS shops also minting money from other items such as kerosene, edible oils and other commodities. Speaking to TOI, KV Vijay Ananda Rajkumar, assistant controller of legal metrology department said that they will regularly visit to most PDS shops in the district during the first week of each month. “We regularly find irregularities in weighing scales, where shop owners use heavy containers on the scale. Also, they use various technologies to tamper with digital scales,”   told TOI. 
 
 The legal metrology department normally uses a 10 kg weight to check the weighing scales to record any error. The errors range between 1 kg to 5 kg some times. However, despite legal metrology action against the proprietors of fair price shops, by and large the complaints against them does not reach the logical conclusion. Sources in the collector office said that they would receive the reports from legal metrology department about the compounding action taken by them. 
 
 As per rules, the joint collector’s office should then direct the local mandal revenue officers to take action. But, in practice this is not being done. The regional vigilance department, too, is focused more on misappropriation done by   (PDS) officials in the district. They have booked more than 60 cases under Section 6A of Essential Commodities Act, and seized over 1,000 quintals of rice that was being illegally sold by dealers. 
 
 Most people in Krishna district do not purchase the subsidised PDS rice, and go for packaged rice. Dealers create false record of purchasing subsidised rice for Rs 1/kg, and then sell it to other private dealers in the grey market for Rs 10/kg, or so. They also transport it to other districts such as Kurnool, Kadapa, West Godavari, and mainly  , from where it is illegally exported from   port to economically backward countries.
 
 
