KOLKATA: The trustees of the iconic   at Esplanade have appointed a new imam, who will have to restrict himself to discharging his religious duties and stay away from making political speeches, issuing fatwas and using a beacon on his vehicle.

 Many within and outside the community view this as a corrective measure for saving the institution of the imam from the legacy left behind by Maulana Mufti Abdush Shakur’s predecessor. But political scientists also spot a larger trend of the community distancing itself from politicisation of its mosques and displaying a growing discomfort with the political ambitions of some among the clergy.
 
 The 58-year-old Hafiz-e-Quran (someone who knows the Quran by heart) Maulana Shakur will have to stick to the true definition of an imam, which is to head religious activities like leading the namaz five times a day, steering special prayers during Ramzan and delivering religious sermons.
 
 “My role does not include making political statements or issuing fatwas or formalising divorces. I restrict myself to my religious duty of leading the prayers and, in my sermons, I stick to the teachings of Islam and spreading the message of peace and harmony,” Shakur, who studied theology in several institutions around the country, told TOI. 
 
 He was confirmed in the service last week.
 
 The appointment of the new imam was necessitated after the removal of his predecessor,  , after allegations of using the   for political purposes, illegally using a red beacon on his vehicle and issuing controversial decrees. Barkati, however, said: “These are vested interests speaking against me.”
 
 “This iconic mosque is the pride of this country. No individual or group can be allowed to malign its sanctity. Henceforth, the activities inside the mosque will be restricted to the religious,” Prince Anwar Ali Shah, great-grandson of Prince Gholam Mohammad, eldest son of Tipu Sultan, said. The mosque was built in 1834 by Prince Gholam Mohammad, who was in Kolkata in exile.
 
 Hasnain Imam, a political scientist who has followed the changes within the community, says the clergy should help the community form an informed opinion on political matters but it should not be partisan.
 
 Community leaders offer the example of Qari Fazlur Rahman, who leads the Eid prayers on Red Road every year and is known to rap every state government of the day for not doing enough for the community in the spheres of education, jobs and healthcare.
 
 “For the trustees of the mosque, this is a corrective measure for saving the institution of the imam. But, at a higher level, this also points to the community trying to preempt politicisation of the mosques in the changed atmosphere . The political ambition of some members of the clergy is not approved by the community at large,” Hasnain Imam said.
 
 Descendants of Tipu Sultan have been staying in Kolkata since 1806, when the British — scared of another rebellion against them — shifted the monarch’s family to the city and kept them under house arrest in Tollygunge (where Tollygunge Club is now situated). Shah’s great-grandfather, Gholam Mohammad, who was shifted to Kolkata from Vellore Fort, purchased several properties in the city. He built two mosques — the Tipu Sultan Mosque at Esplanade and Shaheed Tipu Sultan Shahi Mosque in Tollygunge — besides hospitals and several educational institutions.
 
 
