BHUBANESWAR: Amid the raging controversy over the release of Hindi feature film Padmavat, celebrated author   on Friday said freedom of expression should not be absolute. "I do not think   should be absolute. We should consider ourselves lucky to live in this country. There is no better place to live than India," said Bond. 

 Replying to many a question on creative freedom and controversial films at the Tata Steel Bhubaneswar Literary Meet, the writer of novellas which were once considered controversial in their own right said he would not like to live in any other country, ever. 
 
 The iconic writer expressed happiness over the growing trend of young people making writing their profession. "It is an amazing trend. I am really happy that young people are not only writing poetry, novel, fiction, non-fiction but they are also getting them published. But I must say it is not as easy as it sounds," he added. He advised youngsters to respect the language they write in, put words together in interesting ways, work hard, be regular and be prepared for occasional disappointments. 
 
 Renowned bilingual writer Manoj Das, who was also at the meet, described creative inspiration as a rare moment that strikes writers. "Creative inspiration is something which cannot be described in words. When inspiration strikes you whatever you write becomes great literature and has the power to influence many," Das said. He talked about the importance of understanding the beauty of language and all its nuances, expressing concern over today's youth losing their creativity sensitivity to a mechanical life. "The machines human beings created for their help are subsequently killing them. There is a way to come out of it and that is by reconfirming our trust on India's rich tradition and heritage," Das said. 
 
  Poets Nia Davies and Mamta Sagar recited creations in their own languages - English and Kannada respectively - to an audience in raptures. Acclaimed writer Kiran Nagarkar joined writer Prayaag Akbar in exploring their visions of dystopias and how they have captured them in their works. Both focused on Odia literature and the need to promote the language. 
 
 
