The upcoming   film,  , will see popular Tamil actor   debut in Kannada. Playing a pivotal role that much hasn’t been revealed about, the actor’s stills and posters have piqued the audiences’ curiosity, and rightly so.
Speaking about how he landed the role, Arya says, “When I watched RangiTaranga, I immediately contacted Anup’s dad through a common friend and conveyed my appreciation for the film, especially the way in which it was shot. So, when I got a call from Anup saying he wanted to cast me in his next film, I was thrilled and all I said was, ‘OK brother, done’, without even fully listening to Rajaratha’s script. See, when people from another film industry think of me as a perfect fit for a film character, I consider it as a big compliment, and that makes me very happy. Due to my workload in Tamil and   projects, I’ve never gotten around to exploring the  . But to start it off with such a role is fantastic. I’m feeling as excited as a newcomer about the film’s release.”
 Being the seasoned actor that Arya is, it comes as no surprise that Anup loved directing him. His performance in Rajaratha, in the director’s own words, is “brilliant and something to watch out for”. So, what role does Arya play in it? “As much as I’d love to speak about it, I cannot. Anup prefers that we stay tight-lipped about certain characters, and mine is one such. I know it sounds clichéd, but you’ll have to watch the movie to find out.”
 Arya is fluent in Tamil, Malayalam and Telugu, but not in Kannada, and that came a little in the way of his shooting. “Most of the scenes in the film were shot in one go, and not in parts. This made it very tough for me because I had to memorise all the long dialogues in a language that I don’t know, without a prompter and remembering to get all the emotions right. That was quite a challenge. The only relief was that a few Kannada words and the language’s grammar is similar to Tamil, so remembering the order of words in a sentence was relatively easy,” says the actor.
 As someone who’s acted in over 40 Tamil and Malayalam films, Rajaratha was an introduction to how the Kannada film industry works. So what did the actor think about it? “The style of working here is very similar to the other three south Indian film industries. Production value and productivity is very high, and the four industries seem to share a lot of talented technicians. The one thing that did stand out working in this film is the way the team took care of me and made me feel at home. Not once did I feel like a newcomer to the Kannada industry,” he says.
 Acting aside, Arya loves taking part in international cycling trips. In fact, when Anup had called Arya to cast him in the film, the actor was completing a 1,400 km-cycling tour in Europe. Says Arya, “It was a four-day, 1,400 km cycling tour covering part of   and Scotland. I do this once a year, if time permits, having done similar tours in France and other countries. It’s gruelling but extremely fun. There’s a lot of preparation that goes before the tour, mentally and physically. I love such challenges.”
 
 
