KOCHI: Rs 10,000 is the limit up to which motorists choose to opt for an out-of-court settlement in the event of an accident, say police. When an accident happens and it is reported to police, an entry is made in the General Diary (GD) of the   station, which is sufficient for claiming insurance, officers said.

 A settlement is the best option if the damages are less than Rs10,000. “A GD entry can be made on any issue. However, if the entry is used to make a claim then it will affect the insurance claim when a major accident happens. If the insurance has already been used for minor accidents, then it would affect the claim when an accident happens causing a major damage of over Rs 1 lakh,” said Ernakulam   sub-inspector  .
 
 
  
 
 The fact that minor claims would affect the noclaim bonus itself is a reason to not make such a claim, they said. “A discount on premium of up to 50% is available as bonus if there is clean history of no claims. The percentage of discount varies and increases as the no-claim period goes up. It is always better to make a claim only if it is above the amount that could be saved by maintaining a clean record and getting the no-claim bonus,” said an officer.
 
 Explaining the process of settlement, the officer said: “Both parties would be summoned to the police station and we would try to make an amicable settlement. Sometimes, people are reluctant to pay.
 
 There are also instances where a GD entry is made and a small sum is given as part of settlement so that the person who has suffered a loss can make an insurance claim if needed,” said the officer.
 
 Officials said that marking a GD entry is not a tedious process either. “We don’t ask people not to get the GD entry done. To make an entry, the damaged vehicle must be brought to the police station and the concerned officers would record the damages to the vehicle before making an entry about the same. In most cases it can be done within a day. However, if many accidents happen in the same day it could take up to two days,” said an officer.
 
 According to city cops, there are people adamant about making a GD entry even if the damage is just over Rs 500. “The only point of booking a GD entry is to claim insurance. For such low amounts, it is not logical to go for a claim, yet some people approach us to make an entry,” said an officer with the North police station. “Recently, there was an incident of a man’s car getting scratched using a stone. There was no major damage yet he approached us to make a GD entry,” said the officer.
 
