KOLKATA: At least three city   are exploring a technology that will enable parents to monitor the whereabouts of their children on the campus — down to their exact location, be it classroom, washroom, playground or corridor — and alert authorities if they suspect anything amiss.

 Several schools have already adopted a part of the technology that tracks children while they are travelling by school bus or pool car; some have also incorporated it in school attendance.
 
 The technology — which requires tagging of students, and staff members, including teachers, with RFID (  frequency identification)-enabled badges or cards — acts as a beacon to send out signals that can then be tagged and mapped for reference and surveillance. 
 
 
  
 Some view the technology as a device that enhances child safety and a proactive measure to insure a school against charges of child abuse — like the ones that had surfaced in two schools last year — but there are others who feel it amounts to snooping and is a step too far.
 
 The Japanese technology used widely in schools in the US comprises a mix of hardware and software. Schools that have agreed to use the technology will be required to hand out RFID badges/cards to everyone on campus, including construction workers or electricians who may be temporary entrants. The badges fitted with beacons pinpoint the position of each individual through GPS coordinates down to 3 metres. A cross-referrence of the coordinates with the school layout will show a person’s exact location.
 
 “Some schools have opted for tracking buses, some are using it to record attendance. The next step allows parents to track the location of children and school authorities to track children as well as staff,” Rajat Jain of Jars Services, which is offering the ChildSecure application, said. 
 
 A deviation from the expected location will result in an alert to school authorities. For instance, if children get left behind in classrooms after school hours, parents can see the kids’ location and the school administration will get an alert on the mobile. Also, if a teacher is in close proximity with a student in a place other than the classroom beyond a time set as the parameter by the school, then it will send an alert to the administration,” Rajat Jain of Jars Services, which is offering the ChildSecure application, said. The technology can also give alerts if a bus deviates from the set route. The tracking can be done on an Android or an IOS phone.
 
 Several other firms, including NRXen, also provide the bus-tracking facility that many schools in the city, including a prominent south Kolkata girls’ school, a central Kolkata boys’ school and at least two new-age schools along the Eastern Metropolitan Bypass, have started using. Negotiations are on with a corporate group that owns several schools in the city.
 
 IIT-Kharagpur has also devised a technology that would not only show the location of the bus to parents and school authorities but also alert cops if it is stationary for an unusually long period, which can indicate either a traffic snarl or breakdown.
 
 “We did an extensive study, speaking to 12,000 parents, and found that one of the primary reasons why they refrained from sending children by school bus or pool car was safety. We then devised an RFID-based technology to enable parents to track the bus on which children were travelling. The technology can be extended to school premises but we did not want to do it because we felt the sanctity of a school space should not be encroached on by an external agency. Schools have their own security systems like guards and CCTVs,” IIT-Kharagpur civil engineering department professor   said.
 
 But an official of one of the schools in favour of adopting technology says the trust deficit between parents and school authorities has reached such a level that there is need for technology to act as third umpire.
 
 Veteran academic Debi Kar, who received several inidivual tracking proposals since security issues cropped up following incidents at two other schools, said the school management had discussions but had not yet agreed to allow this technology onto the campus.
 
 “As an individual, I don't like tracking devices and CCTVs. They take away the free atmosphere in schools and turn them into fortresses. Basic safety must be ensured but parents do tend to go overboard at times. I believe nothing can beat human surveillance,” she said.
 
 Seema Sapru, principal of a new-age school along the EM Bypass, also advocates privacy. “We have introduced GPS on buses and three CCTV cameras on each bus. But, within the school walls, students need liberty and freedom to grow up as responsible citizens,” she argued.
 
 
