JODHPUR: It was hot and humid outside the court of chief judicial magistrate, Jodhpur rural, and yet a big crowd gathered here on Thursday to know the fate of film stars   and others who were accused of poaching two black bucks way back in 1998. Last week, the court had completed the trial of the case and scheduled the day for the verdict.

 
 
 Anticipating a huge gathering of film fans and considering life threats to Khan from gangsters, the local police put in a three-layer security arrangement, which did not allow even lawyers to come close to the court building if their cases were not listed there for the day. 
 
 Nevertheless, some fans and many lawyers still managed to find their way into media enclosures to get a glimpse of their favourite stars.
 
 Around 11 am, Khan’s sisters Alvira and Arpita were the first to walk in towards the CJM court, situated on the first floor of district and sessions court. Within five minutes, Khan’s car came. He was allowed to come in the vehicle till the stairs of the court because of the threat perception surrounding him. Neelam, Saif Ali Khan, Tabu and Sonali Bendre, who came around 11.10 am, too had to walk through the police barricade like Khan’s sisters.
 
  
  
 
 
 Since the high-profile case was listed on top of the day’s schedule, the court verdict came by around 11.25 am. Though the prosecution and defence lawyers were still engaged in the court, sources sneaked the info to the media outside. 
 
  
  
 
 The moment people came to know that Khan has been convicted and the other accused have been acquitted, there was celebration as well as sadness. Youth from the Bishnoi community and wildlife lovers began jumping with joy and shouting slogans against Khan, while the film star’s fans looked dejected.
 
 
 
 
 “We are happy that Khan has been sentenced. We will now work to get the government challenge the acquittal of others,” said Ramniwas, a member of the Bishnoi community. A few young girls, who managed to slip through the police barricade, expressed their disappointment. One of them, who did not wish to be named, said, “When the other stars have been set free, why has Khan been pronounced guilty? I wish he were also allowed to go.”
 
 A little later, Saif walked out of the courtroom and headed to his hotel. Tabu, Neelam and Sonali too walked out one by one, leaving Khan and his sisters in the court that was still hearing the arguments of the defence and prosecution on the quantum of punishment for the convict. The final verdict came after the court’s lunch break around 2 pm. 
 
 
 
 It will be five years in jail for Khan, the court ruled. A little later, the Bollywood heartthrob was taken away in a police gypsy to the  , where rape-accused godman Asaram, Rajsamand’s hate-murder accused Shambu Lal Raigar and ruffians of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi are already lodged.
 
  
 
 
