NEW DELHI: The first four highway stretches for emergency landing of fighter aircraft will come up in Jaisalmer (Rajasthan), Ramnathpuram (Tamil Nadu) and Puducherry regions. The   (NHAI) has called tenders for converting five km stretch of each of the three highway stretches as airstrips and the agency targets to complete the construction in the next one year. 

 All these projects will be funded by the government and would cost at least Rs 150 crore. Sources said the identified locations will be strengthened and widened so that aircraft can land easily and safely in case of an emergency. The contractors constructing these stretches will be responsible for their maintenance for four years and they will be responsible for fixing any defect for that period.
 
 “The scope of work will broadly include construction of emergency landing facility with construction of new pavement, construction of major and minor bridges, culverts, road intersections, interchanges, drains, etc and maintenance of the project during the defect liability period, which shall be four years,” an NHAI tender document said.
 
 The Indian Air Force (IAF) had earlier cleared 12 NH stretches that can be developed as emergency landing airstrips for rescue operation teams to reach affected areas easily. These stretches fall in states including Rajasthan, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Assam, Odisha, Jharkhand,   and Tamil Nadu.
 
 As per the plan, the highway stretches will be blocked in case of an emergency and will be put to use exclusively for aircraft landing. Besides using them for strategic purpose, the airstrips can also be used in case of natural calamities, sources said.
 
 Fighter jets for the first time had landed on   near Delhi in May 2016. In November 2016, eight fighter jets landed on the   during its inauguration ceremony. Last October, 16 aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) had landed on a stretch of the expressway and had then then taken off as part of the IAF’s plan to use highways as landing strips during emergencies.
 
