GURUGRAM: Just months into its operations,   — a private firm recently hired by MCG for waste management in the city — has run into controversies. A number of   have complained to the civic body against the firm regarding the irregular collection and improper disposal of waste.

 “The waste is not being picked up on a regular basis and they also tend to skip houses while picking the waste. Sometimes the   van comes daily and sometimes it comes after a day,” said Dinesh Vashisht, RWA president of sectors 4 and 7. “I have brought the issue to the firm’s area supervisor as well,” he added. 
 
 Some residents have alleged that the agency is forcing people to pay the service charges even when they are not using the waste pickup services, while others claim the firm is adding water to waste in order to generate higher tipping charges which are paid per tonne.
 
 Meanwhile, in sectors 21,22 and 23 where the inauguration of the door-to-door waste pickup was done a month-and-a-half back, the services haven’t even started. “The door-to-door pickup is happening only in   village and we are still giving the waste to the earlier agency,” said Bheem Singh Yadav, RWA president, Sector 22B.
 
 When contacted, an MCG official said, “Many condominiums in the city do not give garbage as they do composting at an individual level and hence they aren’t supposed to pay the charges. But in some cases, residents have alleged that they were being asked to pay.”
 
 “The complaints are being looked at in individuality and action will be taken against the firm if it is found guilty,” he added.
 
 MCG hired the private firm to set up a waste-to-energy plant at Bandhwari. The firm is also responsible for door-to-door waste collection, its segregation and proper disposal. A tipping fee is the fee paid to the agency for collecting the garbage and it is paid at Rs 1,000 per tonne.
 
 Ecogreen officials denied all the allegations and said all the complaints were due to the people’s resistance to change in the solid waste management system. “In many areas such as Udyog Vihar, waste collectors were paying huge money to pick up the waste. There is a lot of money involved in the business which is now being affected and hence people are levelling allegations against us,” said Ankit Agarwal, CEO of Ecogreen. “Waste in itself leaves water after decomposition and they are not adding any water to it,” he added.
 
 
