COIMBATORE: A former first year M.Sc applied psychology student of   on Sunday lodged a complaint at the Vadavalli police station seeking action against the head of the university’s psychology department for allegedly verbally abusing her. 

  Chekkunni, 23, from Vallikkunnu, Kerala, also complained against the chief warden, warden and supervisors of the hostel she was staying in.
 
 However, A  , the HOD of psychology department, denied the allegations. 
 
 Haritha said on November 14 last , she had requested Vennila, the supervisor of the hostel Vasuki, to arrange for an ambulance to take a student who fell ill to a nearby hospital. The supervisor replied that the ambulance driver was not available. Following this, four students had gone to the hospital in a cab, said Haritha. She said she had complained about this to the warden. 
 
 On November 15, Velayudhan summoned Haritha to his office and sought an explanation. “But he was not ready to listen to what we had to say. He spoke harshly and asked us to leave the hostel,” said Haritha. 
 
 On November 16, Haritha said she went to the Velayudhan’s office along with her father-in-law and husband. “The HOD and the chief warden demanded my father-in-law to give in writing that they take the responsibility for whatever happens to me in the hostel,” Haritha said. She added that when they refused to give such a letter, the HOD insisted that they take a transfer certificate (TC) for her. Concerned over her safety, Haritha said her family made her take the TC on November 16 last year. 
 
 On the advice of an advocate in April this year, Haritha filed a complaint with the university chancellor, vice-chancellor and the chairman of the National Commission for Women (NCW), among others. “The   asked the university to constitute an inquiry panel. The panel summoned me for inquiry on Friday. But the panel members forced me to withdraw my complaint against Velayudhan,” she said. “As I felt I would not get justice from the panel and so I have decided to approach the police,” she said. 
 
 Rupa Gunaseelan, professor in the university’s department of management, who is part of the inquiry panel, denied Haritha’s allegations. “We will finalise the panel report only on Monday. We are conducting a genuine inquiry,” she said .
 
 
