Mumbai:   Group, one of the oldest financial services firms in India, on Monday said that it will buy out global major BlackRock’s 40% stake in DSP   Investment Managers for an undisclosed amount. The nearly decade-old joint venture company runs the DSP BlackRock Mutual Fund.

 DSP BlackRock MF is the ninth-largest fund house in India with about Rs 86,300 crore assets under management, according to March-end data from industry trade body  . Across other fund management businesses, it handled an additional Rs 25,000 crore, the company said in a release. 
 
 DSP Group chief   told TOI that the separation was on extremely cordial terms and the fund house will continue to be run the way it was being run. BlackRock wanted to operate a technology-driven integrated platform globally for their assets management business. Across the world, in most places where it runs assets management operations, it holds majority stakes. 
 
 Earlier, there were rumours that BlackRock was set to buy out DSP Group’s stake in the fund house and run it from its Hong Kong headquarters. An industry source said, “The US giant, which manages about $6.3 trillion in assets globally, wanted at least 75% in the Indian JV, if not full control.” An official spokesperson for the fund house, however, denied any such talks.
 
 DSP Group, a 152-year-old financial services firm, was one of the leading investment banking companies in India in the 1990s and 2000s. Starting 2006, Kothari had sold stakes in his investment banking firm to   and finally exited the entity in 2013. However, he had kept the fund management business separate from the investment management operations, and has now regained full control of the firm. 
 
 In 2008, when BlackRock came in as a partner in the fund house, replacing Merrill Lynch, it was managing about Rs 18,000 crore. Over this period, the total assets under management has grown nearly five times. “We are going to grow the fund house at a fast pace,” Kothari said.
 
 Over the last 18 months, the fund house has seen some high-profile churns at the top. Kalpen Parekh, who joined in early 2017, replaced S Naganath as the president in mid-2017. And last month Anup Maheshwari, its chief investment officer - equities, quit.
 
 
