NEW DELHI: When a travelling ticket examiner and railway police caught   at Mathura junction for travelling without a ticket in  , he left them baffled with a sensational claim. 

 Wani said he was part of a three-member terror module from J&K staying at a hotel in Jama Masjid area and planning to carry out a strike at   on Republic Day. With an existing intelligence alert about possible terror strikes in the capital in the run up to January 26, this claim was reason enough for anti-terror sleuths of Delhi, UP and J&K to go into a tizzy. 
 
 A massive 12-hour wild goose chase started with combing and sanitising operation in Delhi. At the end, police found that Wani had cooked up a story to teach a lesson to two other men who had cheated him of Rs 1.5 lakh.
 
 It all started when Wani, a resident of Anantnag in Kashmir, was interrogated by UP ATS sleuths after his initial disclosure on Akshardham.
 
 “He said he and two associates, Mudassar and Ashraf, had come to Delhi from Srinagar on SpiceJet flight and were at the final stage of their plan to target the temple. He said they were waiting for arms and ammunition to arrive. He further claimed that he panicked at the eleventh hour and bolted,” an officer said. 
 
 Wani pointed the police to a hotel near Gate Number 1 of Jama Masjid. UP ATS conveyed this information to special cell. Soon, plainclothesmen surrounded the hotel and raided room number 201. But there was nobody there. 
 
 The guest registers were checked and ID cards scanned. J&K Police were roped in, too, and they tracked the addresses down and found them to be correct. The antecedents of the trio was checked, but the police couldn’t find anything that indicated any link to any terror group. 
 
 Around 10pm in Mathura, Wani changed his version. At first, he claimed that he had a dream after watching ‘Tiger Zinda Hai’ that he would get to meet Katrina Kaif after the strike. But later, he disclosed how the two youths had cheated him by promising to double his investment. When he had threatened to go to the police, they brought him to Delhi to make him meet their manager who would give his money back. However, once here, they threatened him with dire consequences and asked him to return home. Distraught, Wani boarded a random train at the Delhi station.
 
 J&K Police later informed their Delhi counterparts that Mudassar and Ashraf are small-time cheats and also peddle fake currency. Wani’s family, on the hand, runs a medical store in Anantnag. 
 
 
