BENGALURU: Suspicious of some private colleges being involved in producing and circulating   and  , the   (RGUHS) has begun an investigation into the matter.

 A day after TOI reported about fake marks cards and provisional degree certificates of BSc nursing doing the rounds, the university formed a five-member committee to investigate the matter, which prima facie appears to be an outside job. It has been asked to submit a report in a week.
 
 However, the scope of the said committee won’t be restricted to investigating the role of outsiders. Sources said the panel, which will be headed by G Venkatesh, director, Advanced Research and former Registrar (evaluation) has been given a free hand to probe all aspects of the fraud.
 
 “The vice-chancellor wanted a no-holds-barred approach as he believes that such a racket being run by outsiders could cause irreparable damage to the varsity’s image. The committee will formally begin its investigation on Monday, although one meeting has already taken place,” a source in the know said.
 
 Among the marks cards that are in circulation, TOI had gained access to a handful through a whistleblower and two sample copies were verified by the university, which confirmed they were bogus. It has now come to light that all these marks cards belong to the same college based in Laggere and TOI has documents to show the same. However, till a direct link is established between the college and the said marks cards, the college name is being withheld. 
 
 RGUHS vice-chancellor MK Ramesh, while confirming constitution of the committee, said: “Our basic enquiries point to an outside racket. While I believe this is being done to tarnish the university’s image at a time when the selection of a V-C is pending, the panel has been given a week’s time to submit a report that will throw light on the matter.”
 
 While some insiders agreed with Ramesh, a few others continued to remain apprehensive, arguing that there could be some officials from the university who are helping some colleges.
 
 Reiterating there is no evidence pointing to insider involvement so far, Ramesh said: “The committee will summon the principal of the college in question and also the candidates involved. When we verified the samples we got, it was found that both the students — the one whose name was on the fake marks card and the one in our records — had secured a first class, making it unclear who benefited from this.”
 
 He said candidates whose names appear on the fake marks cards could also be victims and may not even be aware of the happenings.
 
 
