Trichy: Nearly seven years after a new road overbridge (RoB) was proposed at Periyar Nagar near Thiruvanaikoil, it is finally gearing up for completion. With almost 95% of the construction work accomplished, the state   department, which is the executing agency has planned to open the four-lane facility for traffic by the end of this month end to ease vehicular movement entering and leaving Srirangam.

 The state government in February 2011 gave in-principle approval for establishing a four-lane RoB at Periyar Nagar by dismantling the existing two-lane RoB, which was causing frequent traffic snarls for visitors and pilgrims entering Srirangam. However, owing to delay in sanctioning funds and citing the model code of conduct (MCC) during Tamil Nadu assembly election in 2016, the construction work across the railway line in Periyar Nagar was delayed and commenced only in July 2016.
 
 “The pending works include raising retaining walls for 100m length on Chennai and Trichy sides. Once the retaining walls are raised, the approach roads can be completed,” a senior official with the state highways department said.
 
 Officials expressed confidence about completing the pending work by June end and subsequently to throw open the facility for public after obtaining consent from concerned stakeholders. The Rs 47.30 crore bridge has 48 pillars to accommodate 26 decks placed over the pillars.
 
  The four-lane bridge is equipped with two sections of carriage ways each housing a couple of lanes to enable free movement of vehicles.
 
 “Service roads towards Srirangam Gandhi Road, Kallanai Road and Mambalasalai will be completed simultaneously as the civil works on the bridge was complete,” the official added. Once the bridge work is completed, sources in the district administration said that close to 2.10 lakh population in Srirangam and Thiruvanaikoil will benefit. Similarly, people of Lalgudi and Pullambadi can avoid frequent traffic congestion while commuting from rural vicinity to city limits.
 
 
