CHENNAI: Farmers across Tamil Nadu are staring at an impending disaster as about five lakh acres of paddy in non-delta districts have dried up and another one lakh acres, predominantly in the   delta districts, are likely to wither away soon owing to water scarcity.

 
 The worst affected are Ramanathapuram,   and Pudukottai districts where about five lakh acres of paddy have already withered away. About one lakh acres in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and   districts and parts of   and Pudukottai are likely to face the same fate.
 
 
  
 
 The state, in all probability, may not achieve its targeted food grain production of 100 lakh metric tonne this year, say officials. After the Mettur reservoir was shut on January 28 owing to poor storage, farmers have been pleading with the Centre, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka governments to release at least 15tmcft of additional water to save the standing crop.
 
 Karnataka government, meanwhile, has convened an all-party meeting on March 7 to discuss the Cauvery verdict.
 
 River Cauvery is bone-dry for past one month
 
 Having taken a huge beating, farmers of Pullambadi in Lalgudi taluk in Trichy district took to the streets on Friday, demanding immediate release of water for irrigation. The Cauvery is bone-dry for thelastone month. “Justone spell of rain is enough to save our crop, but it seems elusive. A section of delta farmers are irrigating their fields using water tankers,” said a senior official. The productivity of the standing crop may fall far below the last six year state average yield of 1,680kg/acre.
 
 Government sources said that samba and thaladi crops were raised with great difficulty in 12.85 lakh acres in the delta region. Of which, 5.56 lakh acres were harvested till last Monday. Delay in release of water from Karnataka and Mettur reservoirs last year delayed agricultural operations in delta districts.
 
 Against the customary date of June 12, sluices of Mettur reservoir were opened only on October 2 last year. Agriculture minister R Doraikannu said chief minister   was taking all efforts to get water from Karnataka. “Tamil Nadu government has already sought Prime Minister’s appointment for an all-party delegation and farmers’ representatives from the state to meet him and submit a representation. We are waiting for the PM’s appointment to exert pressure on the Centre to act on the SC verdict,” the minister told TOI. To the extent possible, government was releasing water periodically from irrigation tanks to save crop, said Doraikannu.
 
 In the non-delta region, Ramanthapuram and Sivaganga suffer the worst, with over 90% and 70% respectively of the total covered area having dried out till last week. Pudukottai district follows third with 0.8 lakh acres. CPM Ramanathapuram district secretary V Kasinathadurai alleged that illegal sand mining, being carried out with the support of the state government in Thiruvadanai, Mudukulathur, Kamudhi and   taluks had depleted the groundwater table. “Farmers have lost hopes and given up,” he said.
 
