RAIPUR: When Rajasthan won back to back titles in 2011 and 2012, they had experienced bowlers like Pankaj Singh and Sumit Mathur. When Karnataka won successive titles in 2014 and 2015, they had the likes of R Vinay Kumar, Abhimanyu Mithun and Sreenath Aravind in their bowling attack. Last year, when Gujarat emerged champions, they had the guidance of former India seamer Rudra Pratap Singh and talent of   and Rush Kalariya.

 This year,   won the title with an inexperience pace attack. They had India seamer Umesh Yadav but he played only three games. When the season started, Vidarbha pace attack had combined experience of 11 First Class matches. Their spearhead Lalit Yadav had played only seven matches, while Rajneesh Gurbani had four. Siddhesh Neral was still to make his First Class debut.
 
 It was a challenge for former India seamer Subroto Bannerjee—who joined as head coach and worked as a bowling coach for   team—to get the work done from this inexperienced pace attack. At the end of the season, Vidarbha bowlers had taken 175 wickets among them—the highest in the country. Gurbani became the sensation with his three match-winning performances in knock-outs.
 
 Former Rajasthan captain P Krishnakumar, who is now the bowling coach of Chhattisgarh, feels Bannerjee’s presence has played a huge role in Vidarbha’s win. 
 
 “Head coach’s range of work is very wide. Here bowling coach can help him out so. It’s very important to work on bowlers’ technical aspects. I think Subroto has done a fantastic job here. All the Vidarbha bowlers are bowling extremely well here (in T20) also,” Krishnakumar told TOI on Thursday.
 
 In 2016 Bapuna Cup, Krishnakumar had watched Gurbani in nets. He said Gurbani is a changed bowler now. “I remember he was a slightly round-arm bowler. He would mainly bowl big out-swingers. Now, his hand is much straighter. His release point is much better. He has developed in-swingers, which has helped him succeed this season. His pace has gone up. I am sure Subroto has worked a lot on Gurbani,” Krishnakumar said.
 
 In 2015-16, Vidarbha took advantage of the home conditions to make the knock-outs. This year was different. While spinners—Akshay Wakhare and Aditya Sarvate—played their part perfectly, it was challenge to make the inexperienced pace attack a potent force, especially in the knock-outs where the conditions favoured the pacers.
 
 “Gurbani is still new to First Class as are other Vidarbha pacers but still they performed so brilliantly. I haven’t seen such an inexperienced pace attack win the Ranji Trophy,” Krishnakumar added.
 
 Bannerjee and coach Chandrakant Pandit have known each other for long time. They were together during India’s tour of Australia in 1991-92. Besides, Bannerjee also played under Pandit’s captaincy for East Zone in Duleep Trophy. Their chemistry has worked well for Vidarbha.
 
 “The synchronization between head coach and bowling coach is must. Providing those small inputs during the match is very important,” said Krishnakumar. 
 
 “Chandu Bhai has got this knack of reading wickets and batsmen correctly. Since I worked with him in the Rajasthan set up, I know what he wants from his bowlers. Basically, Subroto has acted as a bridge between him and the bowlers,” he said. 
 
 Bannerjee had worked with all the present Vidarbha bowlers when they were in Residential Academy in 2009. “They all learned bowling under him so he knows what their strengths and weaknesses are. Vidarbha had advantage here and credit must go to the association for bringing somebody who already knew the system,” said Krishnakumar.
 
 
