CHANDIGARH: With Union finance minister Arun Jaitley on Thursday promising farmers an MSP that will be 1.5 times the production cost of crops to honour BJP’s a manifesto promise of implementing the M S Swaminathan report, experts have termed it as a farmer-friendly step.

 Prof   of   (RBI) chair at   in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID), Chandigarh, said it was an appreciable step and reflects the Centre’s intent to implement the Swaminathan Commission’s recommendations. “Even if the government tries to achieve this with steps to reduce cost of production, it’s a win-win for the farmers,” he said. Swaminathan in his report had recommended giving farmers “at least 50% more than the weighted average cost of production”. The Budget further said the credit for agricultural activities was up from Rs 10 lakh crore to Rs 11 lakh crore.
 
 Dr Subhash Sharma, director, Centre for Economic Policy, Mohali, said the Modi government had taken a revolutionary decision to link the MSP calculation to cost of production. “Till now, farmers used to complain that the MSP increase was not in sync to the increase in production cost,” he said. 
 
  Mann, former MP, national president of the BKU and chairman, All India Kisan Coordination Committee, said the finance minister in his budget had “played a hoax” with farmers by announcing that the MSP would be raised 1.5 times the input cost and tried to play a bluff game with farmers. “Working of Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices (CACP) is very opaque and its calculations are far from reality. According to the CACP, the formula of A2+FL cost for wheat for 2018-19 is pegged at Rs 817 per quintal while as per C2 cost it is shown as Rs 1,256 per quintal. These calculations are purely theoretical and far from reality,” said Mann.
 
 “Giving 50% over and above these would mean Rs 1,225 and Rs 1,884 for A2 and C2 calculations, respectively. This year’s MSP is Rs 1,735. Thus by this hoax, farmers are already getting Rs 510 more than cost of production as per A2 calculation,” added Baldev Singh Mianpur, president of BKU, Punjab unit. Earlier, there had been apprehensions that the Centre was not interested in implementing the report because the MSP was decided after taking into consideration all varieties as deciding a minimum 50% hike over the cost could lead to distortions in the market, it was pointed out.
 
 
