Over the years,   has launched the likes of Katrina Kaif, Sonakshi Sinha, Daisy Shah, among others, and helped strengthen careers of Jacqueline Fernandez, Sooraj Pancholi and filmmaker Mahesh Manjrekar. More recently, the 52-year-old actor has mentored debutants like Isabelle Kaif, brother-in-law Ayush Sharma, Warina Hussain and Zaheer Iqbal. Now, Mirror has learnt that the actor-filmmaker is keen on facilitating the comeback of his long-time friend and Race 3 co-star   “with a bang” and a mainstream production, which he is personally looking into.

  
  
 “I have been looking at scripts and we need to finalise the right script for Bobby now,” Salman, who will be producing a film featuring the 49-year-old actor whose repertoire boasts of hits like   and  , tells Mirror. “I am personally looking into the story and locking the director for the film. The script will bring Bobby back as a Greek God. Back in the day, Bobby was fondly called ‘Jattallion’ by friends. It was a grand way of describing him — a good-looking and charming star. And that’s what we’ll bring him back as. The production will be well-timed, will have the right budget and a complete mass appeal. Action and dance will be taken to the next level too. If Bobby thought he worked hard for 'Race 3'[, he doesn’t know what’s coming,” Salman adds with a wink.
 
 The actor plays Sikander in the Ramesh Taurani-produced third instalment in the Race franchise, which is directed by Remo D’souza. He recalls that Bobby, who plays the beefy Yash in the film, has not been seen in a commercial film of this scale in a really long time. After his 2013 film  , he featured in 'Poster Boys' last year. Before   rolled, Bobby took months to get into shape for the part. “He was also taking his shirt completely off for the first time ever, that too in the same frame as me!” Salman laughs, quickly adding, “Bobby’s looking really good in the film. He’s done some fantastic work.”
 
 Salman also talks about 'Bobby 2.0' with a paternal warmth, constantly praising his work ethic. Buzz is Bobby will also be seen in a special appearance in Ali Abbas Zafar’s 'Bharat', headlined by Salman and co-starring  . But neither Salman nor his team choose to comment on it. “Next up, Bobby’s doing Sajid Nadiadwala’s (also one of Salman’s oldest producer-friends)  . That’s a great pick for him because it will suit his personality beautifully. Everyone will enjoy him in his hatke look,” Salman, who has repeatedly been credited for Bobby’s transformation by the makers, announces with pride. “They have been crediting me for everything — distributor, writer, lyricist, actor — I’ve been closely involved with casting. If this film (Race 3) fails, they’re all going to blame me,” he laughs.
 
 With 'Race 3' set to be his first 3D release, Salman sheepishly admits that he’s only seen two 3D films in his life — Chhota Chetan and Avatar. About actors of his generation and the younger crop — Varun Dhawan, Ranveer Singh and Tiger Shroff — he says that the older generation really needs to buck up. “When I started out in the late 1980s, I looked up to my seniors in the industry and wondered if we would ever be able to match the stardom of Dilip Kumar, Rajesh Khanna, Amitabh Bachchan. It seemed impossible at the time. Today, I think keeping up with the juniors and their fan-following is ten times harder. None of us older stars are letting go of anything easily, and we’re going to give the younger ones a hard time, but it’s not easy,” Salman asserts. “I’m working harder because the newcomers are so good at what they do. Actors my age can’t be complacent about our physique, films and acting,” he says.
 
 Does he see the next Salman Khan in any of the younger actors? “Varun Dhawan,” pat comes the reply. “He has grown up in front of me and has some of me, Sanjay Dutt and Govinda in him and he has imbibed only our good qualities,”
 
 Salman signs off with a smile.
  
  
 
