CHENNAI: The Centre’s suggestion of an “authority” to oversee distribution of   river water, before the   on Monday, has attracted the ire of opposition parties in  . While DMK has urged the state government to convene an all-party meeting on Tuesday to push for Cauvery Management Board and also to get legal sanctity for the same from the Supreme Court, the PMK has slammed the Centre’s suggestion as a failure to safeguard Tamil Nadu’s rights over Cauvery.

 
 DMK working president M K   wondered how long it will take for the  , which has already been acting against Tamil Nadu's interests, to implement its proposal. "In order to safeguard the state's interest, the Tamil Nadu government should immediately convene an all-party meeting along with farmers’ associations on Tuesday," Stalin said.
 
 “While Cauvery Management Board is what is required, the Centre has come up with names like ‘authority’ and ‘committee’, which are not acceptable for Tamil Nadu people and farmers. The state government has a duty to counter this strongly before the Supreme Court by making it amply clear that nothing less than the Cauvery Management Board will be acceptable to the state,” Stalin pointed out.
 
 The DMK has called for an all-party meeting on Thursday evening to discuss the fallout on the Cauvery issue, with the Supreme Court having posted its next hearing to Wednesday, May 16.
 
 PMK founder S   on the other hand attacked the Centre for repeatedly letting down Tamil Nadu's interests in the Cauvery river water issue. "The ‘supervisory authority’ now being suggested by the Centre may not have the powers of the Cauvery Management Board, as originally sought. At the most, an authority can only supervise, leaving the implementation part in uncertainty," Ramadoss said.
 
 MDMK general secretary   said the Centre has betrayed Tamil Nadu’s interests by suggesting a powerless ‘supervisory authority’. “This is only a diversionary tactic of the Centre and the state should immediately move a petition against this in the Supreme Court,” Vaiko said.
 
