BHOPAL: Hostel inmates of   claim they are forced to drink unhygienic and hot water as water coolers are dysfunctional. "Sometime, the situation is so bad hostel students have to drink water stored in bathrooms. The issue is brought to the notice of university, but nothing is done about it," they say. 

 There are three boys' hostels - Sanjay Gandhi, Munshi Premchand and   - on BU campus. Each hostel can accommodate around 100 students. Of the three,   is oldest and facing multiple problems.
 
 Students claim they are drinking water of overhead tank, which is not cleaned for past many months. "We are living in miserable condition. Slums are better than this hostel," said a student staying in Sanjay Gandhi hostel, without quoting his name.
 
 Another student explained in detail about the condition of common areas that need to be regularly used, like corridors and water coolers. "The university has provided overhead plastic tanks for drinking water. As water coolers are not functional, one can imagine quality of water in taps. Nobody can drink when temperature touches around 43 degrees outside," said a student without quoting his name. He said several students are forced to drink water kept in bathroom as it is rather cooler area. 
 
 "I can't afford living outside hostel due to financial issues. I have no other option except to continue in hostels, but conditions are pathetic here," said another student. 
 
 He said: "Water coolers were bought last year and they have stopped working after a couple of days. Several windows do not have glasses, doors are broken and lying open, making area vulnerable to theft." Narrating the incident he said, "A TV was stolen a year ago. It was promised several times that TV would be installed again, but nothing had been done."
 
 Another student said, "Forget about any medical facilities. This hostel does not have bandage facility. I was told to visit a private hostel after I met with an accident. This is a situation." 
 
 Students are afraid of moving out of their rooms in night in the absence of light outside the hostel. "Visit BU hostels in night and you would realise the situation. A few days ago, a snake was found inside the room of a student," said another student living in Sanjay Gandhi hostel. 
 
 Incidentally, a month ago, VC (in-charge) DC Gupta and registrar   had promised they would fix all issues. Repeated efforts were made to contact registrar Shukla or warden, but there was no response 
 
 
