 hate forward to that time of the month. Though referred to as chums, they hardly ‘friendly’, thanks to the stomachache, cramps, and a bloated body that it brings along. However, senior fitness consultant   says that there are some exercises that that can help to deal with this. There are women who feel appalled at the idea of exercising during those days.   explains, “Just like studying regularly prepares you for an exam, similarly exercising regularly before your periods helps relive menstrual cramping and aches by increasing your blood circulation and getting your body ready for the aches and pain.” Doctors say that exercising releases endorphins in your body which not only help to elevate your mood but also help to overcome stress. Clinical dietician   says that food cravings are often present during periods. She says, “Foods that are sugary and salty food cravings are unwelcome accompaniment of your chums. To tackle that try eating bananas as they are naturally sweet and high in potassium which will help curb your salt and sugar cravings. Swapneel suggests some exercises that you can do during your periods… 

 
 
 Performing pelvic tilt exercise is important to maintain the mobility in the low back, hips and pelvis. It also helps to maintain and develop abdominal muscle strength and tone. It also provides a mild low back stretch, which can help alleviate the low back pain and discomfort that often accompanies periods. Lie on the floor in a supine position (on your back) with your knees bent. Activate your Abdominal muscles by drawing your belly button towards your spine. You should feel like the hollow of your back(lumbar) is pressing to the floor and your hips and pelvis are rolled upwards towards the ceiling. Hold the position for couple of seconds before returning to the original position. Repeat it about 10 times.
 
 
 
 Sit on the floor with both feet straight in front. Bend your right knee and place the right foot next to your left inner thigh. Now rotate from your lumbar area(lower back) and place your left elbow on the outside of your right knee and place your right hand on the floor behind your body. Hold the stretch for a good 15 seconds or more. Repeat the same on the other side.
 
 
 
 Lie supine (on your back) on the floor with your legs straight in front. Slowly bring both your feet by joining the soles of your feet together towards your pelvis region or closer to your body. Now slowly let gravity take over and let the thighs drop to the floor. Stay in the position for a good 20 to 30 seconds.
 
 
 
 Sit on the floor with your feet extended in front and hands placed by your side. Make sure your fingers are pointing in front- towards your feet. Now slowly lift your hips off the floor and hold the position making sure that the feet, knee, hips, shoulder form a straight line. Make sure you keep your chin tucked in towards your chest. The mobility and fitness level will determine how correctly you can hold the high plank position and for how long. 
 
 
 
 Lie Supine on a mat and bring your feet close to your butts. Slowly raise your hips up such that the shoulders hip and the knees form a straight line. Slowly come back to the starting position and raise yourself again without touching your hips down. Bridging helps to strengthen your lower back, hips, and your hamstrings. It is an excellent exercise to activate and tone the posterior chain of muscles.
 
 
 
 > One needs to carefully choose the exercises she does during her periods. It is advisable to take a break on the day you have a heavy flow.
 > On the rest of the days of one’s period, stick to light low impact aerobics 
 exercises that help increase your blood circulation. 
 > Exercises that mobilise the pelvis such as pelvic tilts are beneficial to ease your back pain.
 > Light yoga stretches are also a good way to relax and release stress during periods. However, intense yoga inversions should be avoided.
 
 
