Visakhapatnam: It has been six years of   officer’s rule for the GVMC.

 The expiry of the tenure of the elected members of the GVMC on February 25, 2012 was followed by vesting of administrative powers with the GVMC special officer. Visakhapatnam district collector was appointed as the GVMC special officer with effect from February 26, 2012 for only six months to discharge the functions of the corporation and the standing committees. However, since then, the tenure of the special officer has been getting renewed for every six months, casting a doubt on the government’s efforts in conducting elections to the civic body.
 
 It all started with the merger of 10 villages into the GVMC in 2013. Opposing the merger, people’s representatives of the newly-merged villages of Bheemili mandal knocked the doors of the court, and the issue has been in court ever since. The government has not taken any sincere efforts to convince the representatives to withdraw their cases.
 
 On the other hand, the state government has carved out nine new wards in city from the earlier 72 wards, taking the number of wards to 81 in August 2017, excluding some merged villages due to legal issues. 
 
 Despite the administrative delimitation orders six months ago, the reorganisation process of the wards and electoral precincts on the ground-level has never started. GVMC wrote to the officials of the municipal administration and urban development, seeking clarification on the non-continuity of the areas of the city to go ahead with the delimitation of wards. Since then, there has been no progress on the issue.
 
 YSRC district president G Amarnath alleged the CM has no respect for civic bodies. “In the absence of the council, the ground-level civic issues are always ignored. Other than the development works taken up during the International Fleet Review in 2016 in the core city, the colonies and interior parts of the city are steeped in great apathy. On the other hand, funds meant for Visakhapatnam are being diverted to capital city Amaravati by Naidu,”said Amarnath.
 
 
