SURAT: The diamond manufacturers in world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat are upbeat with the polished diamond prices registering an increase in the international market in January. 

 According to US-based   group, positive consumer spending in the US and China has spurred the polished diamond prices in the international market. The polished diamond prices have increased from 0.5 per cent to 2.4 per cent in various categories in January-2018.
 
 Diamond market sentiment improved in January with firm prices after retailers reported a better than expected holiday season. Suppliers are gaining confidence about first quarter orders as jewellers start to replenish stock after holiday sales. 
 
 The prices for 1 carat diamonds rose 2.2 per cent followed by 0.30 carat increased by 2.3 per cent, while the 0.50 carat stones gained 2.4 per cent. 
 
 Rapaport stated that the Indian manufacturers are raising their polished production after operating at reduced levels since the November Diwali break. Rough trading remains robust as manufacturers ramp up production.   sold $665 million worth of goods in January with boxes going for an estimated 6 per cent average premium on the secondary market.
 
 Rapaport cautioned that the rough diamond prices are expected to rise in the coming months as miners seek to resume growth in an improving polished diamond market, particularly after last year’s sales decline. 
 
 Diamond analyst   said, “It is a positive sign for the diamond manufacturers in Surat that the prices of polished diamonds have increased. There has been a continuous fall in the prices observed from the last one-and-a-half-year”
 
 Regional chairman of Gems and   (GJEPC)   said, “The firming up of polished diamonds will infuse a new vigour in the diamond manufacturers. The manufacturing of diamonds was relatively low after the Diwali break. Now, the manufacturers have ramped up production anticipating higher prices in the international market. We believe that markets of the US and China will continue to perform well throughout 2018.”
 
 
