From his father,   to his dear friend   and Farhan Akhtar-Bollywood celebrities filled Twitter with good wishes for   on his 42nd birthday on Monday.

 Abishek, son of Amitabh and actress-politician  , made his acting debut in 2000 with 'Refugee' alongside  . Since his debut, he has featured in several films like 'Yuva', 'Guru', 'Happy New Year', 'Sarkar' and 'Dostana'.
 
  
  
 
 Here are the wishes for the actor, who is married to Aishwarya Rai and has a daughter with her:
 
 Amitabh Bachchan: Abhishek Bachchan who is in a time zone out of the country! There was a time that the son would hold the father's hand to walk and now the father hold the sons hand and walks. 
 
  
  
 Manoj Bajpayee: Happy happy birthday to you Abhishek Bachchan. Peace, prosperity happiness always. God bless you.
 
  
  
 Sidharth Malhotra: Happiest birthday to my most favourite actor and human being both Abhishek Bachchan. Have the most fabulous day and year ever. Loads of love and success always.
 
  
  
 Farah Khan: Our relationship in a picture. He pretends he hates me overprotecting and mothering him, while actually loving it! Happy birthday to my favourite boy Abhishek Bachchan one of the finest actors I've worked with. Love you.
 
  
  
 Farhan Akhtar: Happy birthday Abhishek Bachchan. Big hug and best wishes always brother.
 
  
  
 Sania Mirza: Happy happy birthday Abhishek Bachchan. One of the coolest people I know have a super day and year. Lots of love.
 
  
  
 Huma Qureshi: Happy birthday Abhishek Bachchan! Thank you for being my first 'co-star' from my curly hair days. Have a great year ahead.
 
  
  
 Bipasha Basu: Happy Birthday to the coolest guy and the most fun co-star of mine, Abhishek Bachchan. Stay blessed and keep spreading love, fun and happiness wherever you go. Love ya.
 
  
  
 Tanishaa Mukerji: Happy birthday Abhishek! You truly embody this - Manners matter, Good looks are a bonus, humour is a must! Have a rocking birthday!
 
  
  
 Shekhar Ravjiani: Happy birthday brother man! Abhishek Bachchan, Have a super one! 
 
  
  
 Rahul Dholakia: Happy Birthday Abhishek Bachchan! Wish you the best. Love, peace, happiness and some good satisfying screen time. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
