MUMBAI:   Chauhan was just three when he was   outside his home in   in   (SGNP). It was 7.30pm and his ‘dadi’ had taken him outside to relieve himself. The big cat dug its claws into Sandeep’s arm and tried to drag the child by the scruff of his neck when his mother– alerted by the commotion – ran out of the house, threw a ‘lota’ at the leopard and pulled her child from the jaws of death. A few months later, the same thing happened to Sandeep’s five-year-old sister, Aarti. “The leopard had a firm grip on her neck and began running with her,” says Chauhan. “Then, my mother yelled so the leopard got frightened and dropped my sister.” But Aarti’s wounds were fatal. She died on the way to hospital. 

 Today, 19-year-old Chauhan is one of 174 youth activists, across 22 tribal padas in SGNP and  ,   and working to alter   of defecating outdoors. The youngsters write scripts focusing on scenes drawn from their own lives. For instance, 17-year-old Preeti Rawte was once harassed by visitors to the national park, who climbed atop trees to watch her while she answered the nature’s call. So, a similar scene found its way into a recent play to create awareness about the need for indoor toilets. 
 
 These adolescents have all been trained as WASH (Water, Sanitation and Hygiene) champions by Sahyog, an initiative of Committed Communities Development Trust (CCDT), which is sponsored by Plan India. Since 2015, the Sahyog programme has been working on the inter-related issues of health, sanitation, hygiene and malnutrition. “When we started, 48% of tribal children between 0-6 years were malnourished,” says Rashmi Thakkar, CCDT’s associate programme director. “Now in 12 padas, 35% of the formerly malnourished kids are a healthy weight.” 
 
 Sahyog has also set up community-based monitoring groups comprising adolescents and adults who are trained to identify hygiene and sanitation issues and then work towards a solution. Since forest officers don’t allow permanent constructions on forest land, the teenagers advocate using natural materials like mud and ‘karvi’ plants. But even once toilets are built, problems persist. Recently, Chauhan and Rawte were both part of a group that approached the park’s forest officer because Chinch Pada’s community toilets didn’t have any doors or electricity. After long struggle, doors were installed last year and women started using indoor toilets. “Since the day my sister died, having a toilet means more than privacy or hygiene for my family,” says Chauhan in a Sahyog brochure. “It is actually a life-saving utility.” 
 
 
