MUMBAI: There was no further relief for a convict who had received the President's pardon from death penalty for a double murder in   and is in jail since 1994. 

 The Bombay high court agreed with   government that he cannot seek early release from prison and will have to be in prison till his death.   is in jail for attacking his wife's family, killing his mother-in-law and sister-in-law and injuring his wife, father-in-law and another relative. The sessions, high court and Supreme Court had sentenced him to death, but in 2011, the President had signed his mercy plea, with the condition that he would remain in jail for the rest of his life. 
 
 "The President has commuted the death sentence of Pingale to life imprisonment on condition that he shall remain in prison for the remainder of his natural life and there shall be no remission of the term of imprisonment," said a division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice Makarand Karnik. Pingale had challenged the state home department's decision to reject his application for early release from prison. "Looking to the extreme brutality perpetrated by Pingale, we are of the opinion that no case is made out for interference," said the bench while dismissing his petition.
 
 The case dates back to 1994, when Pingale's wife had gone to her parent's home in Lonavla after a fight with him. She also lodged a police complaint and matrimonial proceedings against him. Enraged at her, Pingale had landed at her parents' door. He threw his wife in a water tank. He then stabbed his mother-in-law and set her on fire after pouring kerosene. He then tied the hand's of his wife's cousin and set her ablaze. He later attacked his father-in-law and another relative with a sword, injuring them. While his wife, her father and the relative survived the attack, the other two succumbed to their injuries. In 1997, a sessions court held Pingale guilty of the charges of double murder and sentenced him to death. The high court and SC upheld the death penalty. 
 
 In 2011, the President used his powers under Article 72 of the Constitution. The provision gives the President "the power to grant pardons or commute the sentence of any person convicted of any offence". In 2017, he approached the court claiming that he had spend 23 years in jail and sought premature release.
 
 
