Following TOI’s campaign against wrong-side driving in the city,   speaks to   SSP   on rampant traffic violations in Ghaziabad. 

 Q- What is the main cause of wrong-side driving in Ghaziabad?
 
 A. Lack of police personnel, and infrastructure. I’ve increased the number of personnel in the traffic wing. Changes will be visible in the coming days. Our resources are meagre at present, but we’re trying to improve them. It’s not that cops are incapable. In the absence of cops, commuters take advantage and drive on the wrong side, despite knowing it’s dangerous.
 
 Q- Commuters often flout rules where traffic cops are not present. Any plans to deploy more personnel?
 
 A. To improve the city’s traffic situation, the department has deployed 100 constables, 36 head constables and 15 sub-inspectors in the traffic wing for the next three months. They are gradually joining the traffic wing after undergoing training. The additional force will manage city traffic for longer hours. There are several traffic issues which we are hoping to resolve with this.
 
 Q- How do you sensitise those police personnel who ignore wrong-side driving even though they see it? 
 
 A. It’s not that cops deliberately ignore wrong-side driving. Their first priority is to ensure traffic moves smoothly and create fewer hassles for commuters. If they move from their positions at busy intersections to issue challans, it will result in major traffic snarls.
 
 Q- Any plans for signage to direct drivers who take to wrong-side driving due to ignorance? 
 
 A. There is a need for more signage. Even those that are already present are covered under illegal hoardings and posters. We’re working on this. There is also a need to install more traffic signals.
 
 Q- Cities like Pune put up tyre killers to stop wrong-side driving. Any such plans for Ghaziabad?
 
 A. We’re to open to new ideas to curtail traffic violations. At present, we’re focusing on improving basic infrastructure and development.
 
 Q- Wrong-side driving is also a mindset issue. Can traffic police create awareness to curb this?
 
 A. We’re carrying out many drives and operations focussed on many issues, including wrong-side driving. Last month, we conducted Operation Clean Traffic to clear major crossings from encroachment by vendors. Likewise, Operation Chakravyuh was done to stop plying of unauthorised auto-rickshaws.
 
 Q-Long detours also encourage people to drive on the wrong side...
 
 A. Cuts and openings can’t be allowed at every nook and cranny. Sometimes, the detour is a necessity. People should always follow traffic rules.
 
 Q- Are police consulted before a U-turn/detour is created? Any plan to revisit road design in areas where wrong-side driving is rampant?
 
 A. The traffic wing works in coordination with administrative bodies. We’re consulted, and we give our suggestions.
 
 
