CHENNAI: Chennai police on Friday morning busted a fake currency racket and arrested two people at   station whilethey were smuggling currency worth Rs4 lakh from Assam in the Chennai Central-bound   train. Police also seized five pistols and 20 rounds of ammunition from their possession.

 Preliminary inquiries revealed that the duo identified as Kamal and Pradeep, residents of Chennai, admitted to smuggling the counterfeit currencies and arms from Assam at the behest of racket’s kingpin Rafiq, who is serving his term at Puzhal prison.
 
 Police sources said a special team while checking a compartment of the Guwahati Express found Kamal and Pradeep walking on the railway track and followed them after finding their movement suspicious. The duotriedto run, but were overpowered after a chase. Police on checking the two suitcases of the duo found bundlesof currency notesinside.
 
 After being interrogatedby Q branch officials at the Vepery policestation, theduo revealed that they had come to handover the cash and the firearms to a consigner in Chennai. Pradeep told policethat he was an accomplice of Rafiq. Pradeep ran a cell phone shop and Rafiq was a cell phone snatcher.
 
 The counterfeit currency wing of theCrime BranchCID had arrested Rafiq alias Noorudin alias Ismail, 29, from   and seized counterfeit currency notes, weapon and ammunition from him in 2014. Police said he is a habitual offender involved in many cases, including two counterfeit currency cases. He was arrested and detained in August2013 and releasedon February 28, 2014. He arrested again in 2016. During hisdetention, he met Pradeep who was in jail for a chain snatching case. The duo hatched a plan to smuggle counterfeit notes from Malda in WestBengal. Police said Pradeep is suspected to have flown to Kolkata on a couple of occasions to meet a supplier of counterfeitcurrency. Rafiq had earlier used a person namedHameedtosmuggle bags containing Rs4.5 lakhs and Rs8.9 lakhsin Chennai.
 
 Police sources said that the pistolssmuggledby Rafiq were supplied to hired killers in Chennai.
 
