GURUGRAM: The education department has asked two government   in the   area to relocate, to make way for the expansion plans of the adjacent Civil   building. The hospital has also sent a letter to the education department, asking it to ensure that Government Senior Secondary School and Government Middle School are vacated to clear way for the new buildings of the hospital.

 Dr B K Rajora, chief medical officer (CMO), Civil Hospital, said, “We have plans to make a new 300-bed multi-specialty hospital on the plot where the schools are located.”
 
 However, the school authorities are in no mood to give up the land. Geeta Arya, principal of both schools, said, “We haven’t received any written document, saying the schools have to be shifted. However, the education department has verbally told us the schools will be shifted before the new session.” 
 
 There are 850 students in the senior school, while the middle school has 80 students. The principal fears that as majority of students come from nearby areas, the relocation will hasten the number of drop-outs. “Many students here belong to families of migrant labourers. If the schools are shifted to a new centre, these students who used to walk up to these schools may never have an opportunity to attend classes again. The number of drop-outs is going to increase immensely,” said Arya. 
 
 The principal also said she was unsure if the SCERT building — where they would have to shift temporarily — would have enough facilities for the students. “I’m worried the new building may not have enough amenities. SCERT does not have the facility to house everything,” said Arya.
 
 District education officer (DEO) Ravinder Alawadi said, “The decision to shift the schools has already been taken. The students of middle school will be adjusted in the Government Senior Secondary School at Sector 14, and space will be made in SCERT, Civil Lines to accommodate the senior secondary school students.”
 
 Parents, too, are miffed about the decision. Deepak Prajapati, whose two children study in Class VI and VIII, said, “Does the government ever ask us before taking such decisions? There is one new, fully functional   in Sector 10 which has empty beds. Do we really need another one? If this school shifts from this area, many students will lose interest in studies.” 
 
 Another parent, Shashi Chaudhary, whose daughter studies in Class X, said, “The government should have given us at least one year’s notice, or an option to go to a school of our choice.”
 
 A lab assistant, Om Prakash, went on to say that the school is more than 100 years’ old. “The place where the school is running is an archaeological site. The school was established in 1904.” 
 
 However, the director general of   department, Praveen Kumar, said, “I don’t know if the school is on land belonging to the archaeology department. I’ll investigate the issue to find out if this school has any archaeological tag or not.”
 
 
