KOLKATA: The traffic police are all set to take over the parking lot and the entry and exit points of the   from the GRP. The police have sent such a proposal to the state home department and a similar plan has also been mooted for the Kolkata station. 

 In 2011,   City Police similarly took over parking at Howrah station. 
 
 "Yes, we have sent a proposal. We have received positive feedback from the highest administration. This will help us allow seamless merging of the traffic to the city from the   and vice versa," said DC (traffic) Sumit Kumar. A source at the Lalbazar planning wing said the project was at the "final stage, where only some paperwork remained". The GRP, claimed sources, had not objected to the takeover, one reason being its limited manpower. The Sealdah traffic guard is likely to get charge of the station. A source pointed out that the latest flashpoint, where an app cab service provider had a run-in with yellow cab drivers and auto drivers at Sealdah when they tried to set up a specified booth, led the administration to take a closer look at the police proposal.
 
 For the police, the top agenda is to ensure that the bottleneck near the Sealdah court is eased and separate bays for yellow taxis and app cabs are set up. "We have received complaints that unlike Howrah, the pre-paid taxi stand at Sealdah is a little away from the main gates and is not always properly maintained, especially at night. We are aware that the East-West Metro constructions are making parking difficult here. We will demarcate specific lanes and areas for dropping and picking passengers. Auto stands will be created, but they cannot eat up space reserved for four-wheelers. Any vehicle parked in the wrong area will be fined," said an officer at Lalbazar.
 
 The first thing that the traffic guard wants to implement is a no-parking zone at the alighting point in front of the station, including around the pre-paid and metred taxi booths. Private vehicles used as contract carriages will have to park in a designated zone. Touts usually target their victims at the station and guide them to the illegally parked vehicles, fleecing them. "The system is unfair both to customers as well as honest taxi drivers," claimed a taxi driver, saying genuine drivers finds it difficult to operate. 
 
 Another plan to open another gate for east (Beliaghata and Sealdah)-bound vehicles to ply   is also at an advanced stage. 
 
 
