NEW DELHI: In a massive restructuring exercise, the size of the “overstaffed”   is being cut by half over the next few days with senior officers being deployed in the field to improve the transporter’s day-to-day operations.

 
  
  to trim the top-heavy and all-powerful policy-making wing will see half of its 500 officers being posted out, many of whom have been in the capital for several years.
 
 The decision means that officials ranging from additional members and principal executive directors to executive directors and directors will be eased out of   and posted in zones across the country.
 
 A highly placed source said, “Around 100 railway officers have already been given their orders.”
 
 
 
 Soon after taking over in September 2017, railway minister   had indicated that he planned to shift officers from Delhi to zonal headquarters and divisions, but the diktat to slash the railway board’s strength to half came after a full board meeting on January 29.
 
 According to the decision — which has to be implemented in “nine days” — Railway Board offices will be opened in all 17 zonal headquarters and officers will be posted there with the objective of ensuring efficient services to customers and enhanced safety.
 
  
  
 
 In order to reduce posts within the board, substantial financial, administrative and operational powers were delegated to the field level and at the meeting it was decided to further delegate a wide range of work. “It aimed at reducing the strength in the railway ministry and confining its role to overseeing broader policymaking,” an officer explained.
 
 Although senior officers said the move was not aimed at downsizing but at efficient utilisation of manpower, many rail officers are “unhappy” with the decision, saying, “The Railway Board is not a mere policymaking body, it also oversees massive train operations.”
 
 Goyal had said in October 2017 that 90 officials from different zones had been accommodated in the Railway Board over the years, indicating that they would be sent back to their zones. 
 
 At the review meeting with the full board last week, he is learnt to have asked for the remaining zonal posts (officers of different zones posted to the Railway Board) to be sent back within a week.
 
