LUDHIANA: As many as 15 people have appeared for an interview to be a   from   for Municipal Corporation polls. 

 Congress party sources said that as many as eighteen candidates had applied for the interview for the ticket from ward Number sixty. They added that fifteen candidates turned up for the same.
 
 As per Congress party leaders, those who appeared in the interview included   (nephew of Freedom Fighter Sukhdev Thapar) of Naughara Mohalla and businessman, Vasam Bansal, Sukhwinder Bhalla (businessman), Kapil Joshi, Jatinder Munadi, Komal Khanna, Kapil Kishore Gupta, Arun Lekhi, Rakesh Puri, Sanjeev Sehgal, Satnam Ahuja, Vipan Sood, Ashok Thapar, Alka Malhotra (social worker), Anil Parti and Vinod Thamman. They added that the name of the candidate is going to be announced in the next few days.
 
 Tribhuvan Thapar, son of Ashok Thapar, said that his father had to appear for the interview as the area residents forced him to work for the ward. He added that being from the family of freedom fighter Sukhdev Thapar, their family has stood for the masses and has the vision for people of the ward.
 
 Sources close to family said that even as Ashok Thapar has appeared for the interview but he might not be the choice of the local MLA Surinder Dawar, who is believed to be pushing for Anil Parti. They added that many of those interviewed have raised the issue of few candidates not residing in the ward even as they have businesses there.
 
 Meanwhile, senior leaders of   said that many factors will be taken into account for deciding the candidate.
  
 “There are many aspects which are being taken into the account by three member committee to select the candidates. The candidates should have worked selflessly for the party for ten years and his conduct will be taken into the account. Also the views of Ludhiana MP and area MLA will be taken into consideration and high command will take call”, said Congress’s District President Gurpreet Singh Gogi. He added that the names are expected to be decided for the wards by February 8.
 
 
