GURUGRAM: Four youths in a car allegedly attempted to kidnap a 20-year-old aspiring air hostess in Gurugram on Monday but fled when she raised an alarm, drawing the attention of some passers-by who promptly rushed in for help. Police claimed to have identified the main suspect and are carrying out raids to nab him and his associates.

 The girl was returning to her PG after finishing classes at a Sector 14-based air hostess training institute around 3pm when a car with four men in it, including the driver, blocked her way. A youth came out of the car, held her hand and tried to pull her into the vehicle, while the three others remained seated inside.
 
 The girl, originally from Charkhi Dadri district, who lives in the city with friends, resisted and started shouting, which alerted people nearby. As the youth saw some people running towards them, he left the girl, hopped into the car and fled the scene with his aides.
 
 Scared, she returned to her PG then and approached police on Tuesday evening. “There were four men in the car. One of them, who was sitting on the rear seat, opened the door and came out. He tried to drag me inside. But when I started shouting, they all fled,” she alleged.
 
 During questioning, the girl revealed that she had been receiving calls from an unknown person on her mobile number for past several days. The man had allegedly been harassing her.
 
 Tracking the mobile phone number of the unknown caller, police zeroed in on Kapil, a resident of Shikohpur village, who is suspected to be the mastermind behind the kidnap attempt.
 
 Based on her complaint and preliminary probe, an FIR has been filed against four ‘unidentified’ youths under Section 363/511 (attempt to kidnap) of the IPC at Sector 14 police station. 
 
 “A case has been filed and probe is on. The girl apparently doesn’t know the kidnappers. But based on the preliminary investigation, we conducted a raid at the house of suspect Kapil but he was missing. We are on the job and all the four men will be arrested soon,” said inspector Bhartender, SHO, Sector 14 police station. “The motive behind the kidnap attempt is, however, not clear yet.”
 
 DCP (crime) Sumit Kohar said that the police were probing the matter very seriously. “We have formed a special team to nab the suspects. Once they are arrested, the crime motive will be clear,” he added.
 
 
