MOHALI: On March 2, Manoj Das of Savitry Green-2 apartments in the Gazipur area of   took a picture of an overflowing garbage bins outside his housing society and posted it on the   Bharat Abhiyan   of the central government, hoping that the complaint will be taken seriously at last and the mess will be removed. But he was surprised when six days later, the app showed the complaint status as “resolved”.

 The message read, “Dear user, your complaint is resolved. Thanks,” even though neither any official of the department concerned visited the site to check the bins no did anyone remove these containers from the site. Almost three weeks ago, another   resident,  , posted the picture of an illegal garbage dump at 1754, Phase VII, Industrial Area, Sector 73. The app now shows the complaint’s status as attended.
 
 Vivek run a software company in Mohali and this dump is outside his office. Sweepers have been dumping all the collected waste at this site for the last more than a year.   had posted this picture, hoping that the civic authorities will respond quicker to respect the Prime Minister’s pet campaign, since a lot of hype has been created around Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. On the ground however, garbage heaps lie unmoved and there is no inspection.
 
 Rajesh Katoch of VIP Road, Zirakpur, used the app to post the picture of an illegal dairy to the central government. He has been raising this issue for long, since the dairy owner has been expanding it continuously, while the authorities concerned are only giving the residents empty assurances to get it removed. Katoch got a reply that the issue was resolved. The illegal dairy remains on the site.
 
 Since the local authorities have failed to maintain the city well, the residents have been forced to approach the central government via this app. They are disappointed with the same lazy attitude and blatant lying. Social worker Navjit Singh Miglani, whose house is on the VIP Road, said positing civic problems on various official portals had no effect on even the officials concerned. “We have sent tweets to the PM’s official handler, Punjab government portal, and deputy commissioner’s website but never got to see any ground action,” he said.
 
 Manoj Das said he was surprised to find a false response over a mobile-phone application developed to support Swachh Bharat Abiyan for a cleaner India. He was hoping sincerely that somebody will take away the garbage bins from outside his society but now he says “there is no use of having any portal or app that only generates an automatic message that work is complete”.
 
 Box:
 
 In the dock
 
 I will instruct the officials concerned to ensure that all the sites in the pictures posted on the Swatchh Bharat Abhiyan app are cleared of garbage before any message of ‘job done’ is posted. The app can be a good way of keeping a check on the performance of the officials
 
 Manbir Gill, executive officer, Zirakpur MC
 
 
