JAIPUR : The Bharat Bandh called by Dalit organizations turned ugly and violent in the   as youths and members of the   confronted traders who refused to close their shops and business establishments. 

 Traders were seen confronting protesters in many places from the morning on Monday, resulting in furious spats and leading to the arrest of at least 40 people by the police till evening.
 
 The arrested have been booked under sections of the IPC for rioting, preventing public servants from performing duties, among others, and at least 10 FIRs have been lodged against people for disturbing peace.
 
 From 9 am, people in support of the bandh were seen roaming around on bikes and cars and asking traders to close their shops.
 
 In many places, the police became mute spectators and were at the receiving end when the protesters resorted to pelting stones. In  , near the University of Rajasthan, police had to use force to disperse protesters.
 
 They were also seen entering into scuffles with daily commuters who were travelling in their cars and bikes on city roads. Scenes of damaging cars, buses and halting trains were common in the city.
 
 On MI Road, the bandh supporters vandalized a showroom and buses carrying school children were stopped at many places, with Sodala, Shyam Nagar, Ajmer Road, Khatipura Road, and   road among the worst affected.
 
 "We had to use mild force when protesters tried to enter the restricted area outside the state legislative assembly and the chief minister's house," said additional commissioner of police (law & order)  .
 
 Miscreants vandalized as many as 30 cars in a locality in   of the city. 
 
 Later, several residents from the locality arrived at the police station and filed a complaint against the miscreants. "We were inside our houses when we heard noises. When we came out, we saw some youths running away after damaging the cars and vehicles," said a resident.
 
 A similar incident was reported from the   building where cars and autos were damaged. 
 
 Angry residents also reached the police station and demanded action. "Residents have alleged that some people misbehaved with them, attacked their vehicles and threw stones at them. We are investigating the matter," an official said. 
 
 
