While interviewing a graphologist, he asked this reporter to show him his handwriting so that he could demonstrate his expertise. But the reporter came up with a series of excuses for not showing his handwriting to the graphologist, pushed by memories of chiding he had got from his teachers for his bad handwriting. After a while, the graphologist gave up and said slyly, “Neat handwriting doesn't necessarily mean a good character and vice versa.” Still this reporter was not convinced and did his best to cover his scribbling from the graphologist.

 Age is just a number
 
 At a pre-press meet for a national-level basketball tournament held by a state-owned firm, the official who was briefing reporters said the state team had a bunch of players from the city. When asked about their age, he said it ranged from 35 to 50. Asked whether there were any younger players in the team, the official, who had gauged where the conversation was heading, quickly gathered himself and said, “Though our players are seniors, they are experienced, they play well.”
 
 View from the top
 
 A new flyover under construction in the city has raised concern among all sections of society, thanks to its unusual height. With activists raising concerns about its safety, officials involved in the construction of the flyover sought to justify the height when a journalist called up. When the journalist told them that people were apprehensive about riding on the flyover once it was completed, the official confided, “We are also very scared.” But the very next moment, he added in a nonchalant manner. “It wil look scary only when you look from the road. Once we climb up and look down, it is not that scary at all,” he assured the journalist.
 
 Dual personality
 
 The nature of job is such that policemen get to see innumerous kinds of accused. Here was a young woman accused of cheating many men. Even a cop who was interrogating her was surprised. When the policeman asked her why she had cheated a particular man, without batting an eyelid the woman said, “I didn’t cheat this man. It is Mythili who cheated him. You should be questioning Mythili.” This confused the police officer. He asked the complainant to come and clarify if it was the woman being questioned who cheated him or Mythili. The man took one look at the woman and said there was no doubt she was the culprit. 
 
 “She had identified herself as Mythili to me. I was under the impression that her name was Mythili. Only later did I realise that Mythili was fictitious name,” the man said. After this, the woman cooperated wholeheartedly with the investigation.
 
 
