LUCKNOW: The son of   (62), the patient who died on Saturday after falling in the open garbage duct at Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Science(RMLIMS), wrote to chief minister   on Monday accusing the institute of negligence. 

 Ram Pyare was admitted on the third floor of the cardiology unit and was to be discharged on Saturday and had to come for routine follow-up in a few days. The son,  , a resident of Campierganj, Gorakhpur, will come to Lucknow on Wednesday to lodge an FIR against the medical institute for the incident.
 
 Besides accusing the institute of having a duct open in toilet area, the family has alleged that the institute was negligent in rescue, in providing immediate treatment and also mislead them against getting an autopsy done. Ram Kishun runs a tea shop in Campierganj.
 
 Recalling the incident, Ram Kishun told TOI that he found his father missing when he woke up at 5.30 am on Saturday and was told by others in the ward that he had gone to toilet. "When I went to look for him I found that he had fallen down the duct. I informed the hospital administration immediately but the door of the garbage collection area was opened only around 7am. My father had a fractured hand and head injury and was brought back to the ward," he said.
 
 
 
 
 The family says there was no doctor in the ward. “When we took him to the ICU, some junior doctors were present there. By the time they put a drip, my father died at 8:40am,” he said.
 
 “I was alone and was perplexed. When I asked about post-mortem, they told me it was not needed. They asked me to sign a paper that said that I did not want a post-mortem and then allowed me to take the body home,” he added.
 
 RMLIMS director Prof Deepak Malviya said, “We gave the post-mortem option, but the son of the deceased gave in writing that he did not want it. A memo was sent to police the same day.”
 
 However, station officer of Vibhuti Khand police station Satendra Rai said RMLIMS decision to send the body with the family was against rules. “The death memo was sent to us at night while the hospital had sent the family away in the day itself. How can they do that without informing police? It is not the hospital’s discretion to give families an option of autopsy, even if the family gives anything in writing. Police decide this,” said Rai.
 
 Meanwhile, SSP Lucknow Deepak Kumar said if the family files a complaint of negligence against the hospital then a board of doctors will be constituted to probe and police will take action on the basis of the findings of the medical board.
 
 
