PATNA: A   has been set up to probe into the death of a six-year-old girl allegedly due to negligence at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Cardiology (IGIC) on Thursday, Patna Medical College and   ( ) superintendent Dr Deepak Tandon said on Friday. The committee will submit its report within three days. 

 Pooja from Arwal was admitted to the PMCH paediatrics department on Wednesday evening and referred to IGIC on the PMCH campus the same night. Her relatives said Pooja died on Thursday morning after the hospital staff allegedly denied her stretcher and gave oxygen cylinder in their hands without turning on its regulator. They alleged the hospital staff had demanded Rs50 tip which they had refused. 
 
 Tandon told this newspaper the probe committee comprises head of surgery and paediatrics department along with the deputy superintendent-II of the hospital.
 
 Meanwhile, PMCH administration has alleged negligence on the part of IGIC where the child was referred to, as she was suffering from pericardial effusion in which fluid gets accumulated around the heart.
 
 “We called IGIC director Dr S S Chatterjee twice on Wednesday requesting an Echo test of the patient as her condition was serious. But he declined our request and told me to send the patient in the morning and Pooja was sent back to PMCH Wednesday night. She was taken to IGIC on Thursday morning but her condition deteriorated. At IGIC, the patient was sent from the Echo room to emergency to be revived, but she collapsed in the emergency and passed away,” PMCH principal Dr Vijay Kumar Gupta told this newspaper on Friday.
 
 IGIC director could not be contacted for his comment.
 
 PMCH’s paediatrics department in-charge Dr Gopal Saran said: “The child had been sick for the past one month and complained of breathlessness. She was first referred to   (IGIMS) from Arwal on Tuesday. But, her relatives brought her to PMCH as the services here are free.”
 
 He said the x-ray showed her heart was enlarged. “We sent her to IGIC to get an Echo test done, but she was referred back to PMCH,” he said.
 
 Rubbishing allegations made by the kin of the deceased, Dr Saran said: “We had sent her on an e-rickshaw. The oxygen cylinder had been personally checked by the sister in-charge. Two doctors had accompanied her to IGIC.”
 
 
