Air-purifying plants, organic vegetables, salad greens and seasonal flowers were all the rage at the recently concluded   2018: Vasant Utsav. Held at Noida's   in Sector 21, the three-day event, organised by   and The Floriculture Society, focused on the need for water conservation and growing plants – both indoors and outdoors – that help in controlling air pollution.

  
  Beautiful decorations with flowers were the main attraction at the event
 
 
 
 
   , General Secretary, The Floriculture Society, Noida, and a resident of Sector 12, said, "Keeping in mind the deteriorating air quality, the aim of the 32nd edition of the flower show was to spread awareness about water conservation and anti-pollution plants. From plants to colourful pots and manure, seeds and gardening accessories – over 85 stalls at the event offered everything that one needs to set up a garden. The anti-pollution plants like jade, money plant, spider plant, dracaena and snake plant were quite in demand. Noida Authority also directed  , plant sellers and exhibitors not to use plastic vase for plants."
 
  
  The visitors did not shy away from capturing the beauty in camera stills
 
 
 
  Talking about her observations about the current trends among Noidawallahs, Manju told us, "The trend of gifting plants has grown, so, small potted plants ranging from Rs 50 to Rs 500 were some of the hot sellers. Apart from this, a lot of Noidawallahs took a keen interest in understanding the concept of balcony gardens, tray gardens and vertical gardening, and some even placed orders for the same at different stalls."
 
  
  Ceramic containers were available in different shapes and sizes
 
 
 
 
   , one of the sellers, said, "This year, a lot of people took keen interest in understanding how to grow organic vegetables and fruits. Some of our bestsellers were a variety of salad greens, including iceberg lettuce, arugula, cherry tomatoes and herbs like celery, coriander, basil, mint and thyme, etc. Vegetables and fruits like brinjals, green and red chillies, bell pepper, tomatoes and lemon plants were also in demand. Visitors took home a lot of vegetable and flower seedlings, which were priced between Rs 8 to Rs 10. Due to the persistent termite problem in most of Noida apartments, people were keen on buying termite-resistant planters made from pinewood and sheesham wood."
 
  
  Air-purifying plants were the highlight of the show
 
  She added, "It is a wonderful experience to exhibit at such shows as it helps in understanding market trends. For instance, a lot of Noidawallahs have started going back to nature. A lot of people want to understand about different ways of developing an organic garden. Pehle log kehte thay ki Noida ka paani khaara hai, but today, people have found means of controlling the pH levels of soil. The awareness has certainly increased."
 
  
  Beautiful pot hangings
 
  Krishan Kumar, the owner of  , said, "With the onset of spring (vasant), comes the flowering season. So, we sold a lot of seasonal flowering plants. This included dahlia, pansies, petunia and marigold. Other hot sellers were a variety of succulents, which help in water conservation, and colourful cacti, all priced between Rs 100 and Rs 500." There were sessions on water conservation too at the festival.
 
  
  A visitor takes a look at the flowers on display
 
  
  The oragnisers adopted innovative ways to attract visitors 
 
 
 
 
  Rachna Singh, a resident of Indirapuram, who came with her son, Aarav, said, "I have been visiting the show for the past five years and every year, I look forward to attending it. This time, I noticed that a great variety of air-purifying plants was available at almost every stall. My husband is an avid gardener, so I bought some flowering seeds and plants to gift him. I bought a packet of Celosia seeds. The best part about attending the flower show is that it gives you a variety of colourful pictures to flaunt online. I clicked a lot of pictures of the flower arrangements and colourful gardening accessories."
 
  
  Installations made using ferns and colourful flowers attracted a lot of attention
 
  
  The decoration added to the feel of the flower show
 
 
 --Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
