MUMBAI: The general manager of   (MSCMF) has been suspended for gross irregularities in the tender process for milling tur procured by the state in 2017-18. The government has also initiated an   against the GM,  , who is the second most senior official in the federation.

 The suspension order (copy with TOI) issued on Tuesday says key conditions that were initially part of the tender notice were not followed. Senior officials said the role of the managing director, JP Gupta, is also under the lens.
 
 
  
 Last year, the federation procured 25.2 lakh quintals of tur worth Rs 1,300 crore following a glut in market as the state’s production was four times that in 2016-17. This led to crash in prices; many traders bought tur from farmers at very low prices and sold it to the federation at the minimum support price of Rs 5,050 per quintal. To ensure that the tur procured and later sold by the government does not return to the federation, the state decided to mill the entire   and then sell in market.
 
 In August, when the federation invited bids for milling tur available with the government, 10 mills participated. But the scrutiny committee rejected all saying they did not submit all the required papers. So, bids were invited for a second time in September, but this time, traders were also made eligible. “After the inclusion of traders, 19 bidders participated and two were finalised,” said a senior official at Mantralaya.
 
 He pointed out that the initial tender condition mandated an outturn (output, i.e., dal) of 70%, but the contract was allotted to the two contractors at 65% outturn. This means for every kg of tur milled, contractor should generate 650gm of dal, and the remaining can be used to generate profits. “Several bidders did not participate in the process as they did not know that the federation will relax the norms to 65%,” says the suspension letter.
 
 According to government sources, one of the two selected contractors has not started milling tur due to financial issues at his end. Meanwhile, the other contractor, who is a trader, is outsourcing the work. “It was mandatory for traders to have a mill on lease for at least three years. But the selected trader doesn’t have any such lease,” said a senior official.
 
 Another issue mentioned in the suspension letter is that of the 31 tender conditions only 21 condition were scrutinised while allotting the tender.
 
 Earlier when the issue was raised in the legislative council by leader of the opposition  , the minister of the department   had given a clean chit to the federation.
 
 Additional chief secretary Bijay Kumar said the milling process has been very slow because of the mess at the tendering levels. “Basic tender conditions like the quality of dal, storage capacity, make of the machine, whether a quality control lab will be set up the contractor, were not a part of the tender conditions. Irrelevant conditions were incorporated to make the process ‘restrictive’ to limit the participating bidders,” said Kumar.
 
 He also said that the cabinet was apprised of the situation on Tuesday, after which they decided to fix responsibility on Deshmukh, who has been with the federation since 2008.
 
 “So far a small quantity has been milled. The government will have to speed up the milling so ensure we can make space in the godowns,” said Kumar. He also said that the government will not be calling for fresh tenders inviting more people to participate in the work.
 
 
