HYDERABAD: The LED decorative trees and lights that were seen all along the western corridor during the Global Entrepreneurship Summit 2017 may make a comeback soon for good with the   planning to put up permanent decorative illumination with LED trees at a few important stretches in the region. 

 The decorative illumination will be seen coming up on the road between Kothaguda cross road and Hitex Mini Charminar, NAC gate and   and Cyber Towers and Hitex Mini Charminar at a total cost 40 lakh. Tenders, for the supply, installation and commissioning of these decorative LED trees and operation and maintenance for a period of three years in these stretches have already been called for by the GHMC and a Request For Proposal has also been published by the municipal corporation in this regard, officials said. 
 
 According to them, permanent lighting structures are being installed to avoid the redundant lighting costs incurred during international conferences and other high-profile events that frequently take place near the Hitex area.
 
 "The Hitex area has become a centre for international conferences and each time an event is organised, we end up securing sanctions for decorative lights. During the GES, we spent nearly 40 lakh on lighting alone. That is why we have decided to go for permanent lighting structures that can simply be switched on during an event. Also, lighted streets are the rage right now and with Hyderabad turning into an international destination, decorative illumination also bodes well from a tourist perspective," said  , zonal commissioner (West Zone), GHMC. 
 
 According to Dasari, two such LED decorative trees are already in place - near Hi-Tec City flyover and near Mini Charminar at Hitex.
 
 Residents of the area, meanwhile, rued the extra spend on 'beautification' at a time when even basic civic needs are not being met. "Roads in Kothaguda and   are in a pathetic state and each time there is an international event, the roads are given a facelift. Within a few weeks, however, the condition of roads deteriorates," said Anoop Nair, a resident of Kondapur.
 
 
