TRICHY: Boosting the spirits of the district, which already exists in the good books of investors in Information Technology Enabled Services ( ) sector, two new Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) centres were inaugurated here on Wednesday as a part of India   Promotion Scheme (IBPS).

 One of the facilities was launched in Pulivalam village, first of its kind in Musiri region, while the other was inaugurated at Karur Bypass Road. The two centres will receive subsidy from Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), an autonomous body under the ministry of electronics and information technology, the implementing agency of IBPS to help smaller cities in building infrastructure and to promote balanced regional growth. 
 
 ITES investors claimed that they have been focusing on tier-II cities for expansion as they have reached saturation point in metropolitan areas.  , owing to the low operational cost and abundant availability of human resource, has seen more ITES firms opening offices in the recent past.
 
 And now, two more BPO centres, namely Oasys Cybernatics Private Limited and IVTL Infoview Technologies Private Limited with a seating capacity of 100, have been opened in the district as a part of Union government’s IBPS initiative to promote the sector across tier-II and tier-III towns and cities.
 
 Official sources said that subsidy up to Rs1 lakh per seat will be provided by the STPI as a part of IBPS. Special incentives towards employment of women and people with disabilities will also be provided besides incentives for generating employment in rural areas beyond the target.
 
 “Our BPO centre in Pulivalam will provide voice support to the beneficiaries of Public Distribution System in southern states. Shortly we would commence the recruitment process, where qualified rural candidates with in Musiri region will be given preference,” said a representative of Oasys Cybernatics Private Limited. With two dozen ITES firms functioning in the city already, the two new facilities are expected to provide more job opportunities to Trichy youth.
 
 “Employment generation in rural parts was one of the objectives of IBPS through which a BPO centre was opened in Pulivalam village. STPI being an implementing agency will support such BPO centres with subsidies,” said R Gokulakrishnan, joint director, STPI, Chennai. The quantum of financial support will be determined by STPI through open bid system. Besides, a firm availing financial support under IBPS can also opt to avail supports under other schemes of Union and state governments.
 
 
