BENGALURU: A 36-year-old cooperative bank employee, missing since Friday, was found murdered on the outskirts of Samandur, a village near  , Bengaluru Rural district, on Sunday evening. The decomposed body of Murugesh B, a resident of   and chief executive officer of the Primary Agriculture Credit Cooperative Society, Kachanayakanahalli, was found in a eucalyptus grove on the outskirts of the village.

 Attibele police say the body had multiple stab wounds on the face, especially the forehead and chin, apart from other injuries. Villagers found the body and alerted police. The cops said Murugesh was responsible for sanctioning loans and recovering outstanding dues. In her complaint to police, Radha, Murugesh’s wife, alleged her husband’s killers had stolen his two-wheeler, mobile phone and a bag containing bank documents.
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that Radha had gone to  , near the Tamil Nadu border, to attend a relative’s wedding. Thereafter, she stayed at her parents’ house. Murugesh called her on Friday morning about a misplaced bank key. She said she didn’t know where it was, but she returned home the same evening to search for the key.
 
 At 8.45pm, three strangers knocked on the door and said they wanted to speak to her husband about a bank loan. Radha told them Murugesh wasn’t at home, but gave them her husband’s mobile number. The trio then left.
 
 “My mobile wasn’t working on Friday, but I called my husband around midnight from my neighbour’s mobile. It was switched off,” Radha said in her complaint. “My husband didn’t return that night and I called on Saturday too. Again it was switched off. I then informed Murugesh’s brother,  , and we began a search for him. We couldn’t trace him anywhere so we filed a missing person complaint with Suryanagar police station.”
 
 Radha said when she heard from villagers about a body being found in the eucalyptus grove, she rushed there. Police suspect Murugesh was killed on Friday itself. “We are investigating the case from several angles and haven’t ruled out the involvement of known people,” a police officer said. 
 
 An autopsy was conducted at   and the body was handed over to the family.
 
 
