PANAJI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached the properties of former   (GCA) presidents Dayanand   and Chetan Desai, former secretary Vinod Phadke and former treasurer Akbar Mulla, totally worth Rs 4.13 crore in the case of alleged misappropriation of funds to the tune of Rs 3.13 crore. Narvekar is also a former deputy chief minister.

 ED had initiated an investigation under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, after an FIR was registered by the Economics Offence Wing of the Goa police for allegedly siphoning off the funds received by GCA from BCCI.
 
 ED sources said that during the period 2006-07, BCCI forwarded grants/TV subsidy amounting to Rs 6.95 crore to GCA and of this amount, Rs 3.87 crore was allegedly siphoned off by Narvekar, Desai, Phadke and Mulla, former office bearers of GCA, by allegedly fraudulently opening accounts with Development Credit Bank, Panaji, and Shiroda Urban Cooperative Society, IDC Kundaim branch, Ponda.
 
 ED sources said that the modus operandi adopted by the aforesaid persons was to open fraudulent accounts in the name of GCA with certain banks based in Goa. Thereafter, a portion of the grants/ TV subsidy received from BCCI would be deposited in the said accounts.
 
 Existence of these grants and the new bank accounts was neither disclosed in the monthly meeting/ annual general body meeting nor mentioned in the balance sheet of GCA. Thereafter, the money deposited would be withdrawn in cash using bearer cheques issued in the name of fictitious persons.
 
 The office bearers used to telephonically inform bank officials that a ‘GCA person’ would come to withdraw money and they should clear the cheque at the earliest. In addition, it was also found that Narvekar had allegedly siphoned off Rs 26 lakh from GCA’s account in Federal Bank , ED sources said.
 
 This amount was withdrawn in cash ostensibly to pay M/s Hako Enterprises, Mumbai, for the supply of sports equipment including lawnmowers, bowling machines, pitch cover and groundrollers. But, M/s Hako Enterprises confirmed that they have neither supplied any equipment worth Rs 26 lakh nor did they receive any payment from the GCA, ED sources said.
 
