PANAJI: The use of cellphones while   was the second-highest recorded violation after drunk driving in the state last year, with 1,010 cases logged in the last quarter alone. However, data collated by the transport department indicates that just over 400 licences were suspended for the offence from January 1 to December 31. 

 Traffic police sources said licences are suspended only after a particular motorist is deemed to be a habitual offender. “Drivers found using cellphones are first counselled and let off with a warning. If they repeat it, they are fined. But if we observe that they continue to commit the same violation, their licences are ultimately suspended for three months,” they explained. 
 
 A crackdown by regional transport offices (RTO) resulted in a drop in number of licences suspended in the first quarter of 2017. 
  
 
  
 The last quarter of 2016 saw 87 licences being suspended, this figure dropped to 61 in the first quarter of 2017. The subsequent three quarters of 2017 recorded a steady rise. 
 
 As many as 102 licences were suspended from April to June, 117 from July to September and 133 from October to December. 
 
 “When riders and drivers speak on the  , they slow down and inadvertently block traffic. In Goa, we have single carriage roads, so in an effort to overtake motorists using cellphones, others speed up and create a possibility for accidents,” road safety activist Dilip Naik, said.
 
 
  
 Goa traffic cell DySP Dharmesh Angle, said, “Every person uses a cellphone today, but the ratio of people getting drunk is much less, therefore these rising numbers. I appeal to the people to focus on the road while driving.” He lauded the efforts of citizens in reporting such   through the Traffic Sentinel Scheme and said the initiative has been effective in curbing offences “because there is a sense among motorists that someone is watching them”.
 
 In an effort to curb the usage of cellphones while driving, the state transport department is in the process of creating awareness among youngsters about the risks and dangers involved. “The luxury of cellphones is costing people their lives. Experts on road safety will be invited from Delhi and Pune to go to schools and create awareness about the same,” a transport official told TOI.
 
 
