CHANDIGARH: When the Varnika Kundu stalking case had become a talking point in the country last year, there was no clarity on the actual number of cases related to   in Chandigarh. The department of laws, Panjab University (PU), has now managed to collect data to show that 574 cases were registered under Section 354 (outraging modesty of a woman) of the IPC from 2006 to 2016 in Chandigarh and that around half of such cases ended in acquittals.

  
  
 As high as 49% cases resulted in acquittal of the accused and only in 15% of cases the accused were convicted, the study found. Babita Devi, a faculty member of the department of laws, along with her research staff, including Deepak Thakur, conducted the study on sexual harassment and covered eight educational institutions of Chandigarh.
 
 The data collected during the study mentions that under Section 509 (insulting woman’s modesty through word or gesture) of the IPC, 120 cases were registered from 2006 to 2016 in Chandigarh, out of which 46% of cases resulted in acquittal and only in 18% of cases the accused were convicted.
 
 “This data shows that in the cases involving sexual harassment of women, the rate of acquittal is very high and that of conviction less. There might be procedural lacuna in the system or it also raises questions on the complaints of sexual harassment made in the first place,” said Babita Devi.
 
 Elaborating on the probable reasons behind the high acquittal rate,  , additional advocate general,  , said, “It is the delayed process. People do initially file complaints, but there comes a phase when the complainant feels that she is being victimized. A number of times near and dear ones of the complaints would say it was a small thing, move on now that this has happened. So, sustaining that pressure for girls individually and independently and all by themselves is another big factor. With quick delivery of justice, people would be able to withstand all kinds of external pressure. The delay would make it individually difficult to fight it out.”
 
 However, Manjeet Kaur, advocate, district court, Chandigarh, said the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 2013, has strengthened the Section 354 of the IPC by bifurcating it and specifying the offences like stalking and voyeurism. “The law before 2013 directed either two year of imprisonment “or” fine. So, the fine in many cases would be considered acquittal. This could be one of the reasons of the high rate of acquittal. The victim blaming and wisdom shaming is another unfortunate aspect, which discourages complainants.”
 
 
 
