Kochi: A fortnight after the state witnessed a slew of sweet promises and reassurances with a view to empower women, it is time for some bitter truth.

 A huge percentage of the 60,000 women surveyed by  , as part of   2018 campaign, said they don’t mind being subservient to their husband, with man being the head of the family. Around 40,417 women felt that men should head the family, while 20,840 opposed the idea.
 
 The anti-woman views of these women (aged above 18) don’t end here. Over 37,320 of the 64,937 respondents said women who dress in a provocative manner were sure to invite unwanted attention and thus increase the risk of getting raped.
 
 Most respondents admitted that they still prefer to be subservient to their husband, even if he is in the wrong. And many women said that a wife should live with her husband despite marital disputes and this was validated by 36,902 respondents against 28,817 who did not favour the stance.
 
 Though, a huge majority (44,567 women) made it clear that a wife shouldn’t succumb to the husband’s demand for forced sex, 14,364 respondents did not support that view. They said that both husband and wife should share the responsibility when it came to children. 
 
 Besides, 44,817 respondents said they did not want to surrender to the whims and fancies on men. Only 11,493 women agreed to be disciplined by men. Also, a majority of the respondents said that they can do better than men in public service. In this case 35,657 women backed this view while 27,586 opposed it. Besides, 47,244 women responded that it was not the head of the family (husband) who should take a call on the number of children the couple wants.
 
 The survey focussed on combating violence against women and children and creating an awareness among the public. The state-level survey report will be released in Thiruvananthapuram on Thursday. Based on the report, state government will be formulating projects for the safety of women and children and it will be implemented through local bodies.
 
 Activists said that the survey illustrated the deep patriarchal mindset of rural and urban Kerala. “This is patriarchal supremacy imposed by society and it has takers among women. Our aim is to change these perceptions with Neetham,” said district programme manager (gender) of Kudumbashree Shine T Money.
 
 “In our society, both men and women stick to several patriarchal notions in modern times. Gender sensitisation in such a society will take time. We plan to have year-long programme to create gender awareness among Keralites,” said gender adviser to the government TK Anandhi.
 
 
