NAGPUR: Peeved over pollution touching alarming levels in  , an industrialist has moved Nagpur bench of  , praying for action against respondents, including Mahagenco, for violating emission norms and environmental standards.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi on Wednesday issued notices to respondents, including state and central governments, asking them to reply by March 7. Principal secretaries of ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MOEFCC) and state department of energy and environment, Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB), Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Stations (CSTPS), Western Coalfields Limited (WCL), are the other respondents in the PIL.
 
 Petitioner Madhusudan Roongta, MIDC Industries Association president in Chandrapur, prayed for directives to the respondents, particularly CSTPS and WCL, against causing air and water pollution due to their industrial activities. Chandrapur has been ranked among the most polluting cities in the country, primarily due to large scale pollution caused by industrial activity.
 
 He quoted amendment made by MOEFCC in Environmental Protection Rules on December 7, 2015, due to which power generating industries were directed to limit emissions within two years. 
 
 Citing TOI report of August 19, 2017, he said MPCB had visited CSTPS following a complaint lodged by its regional committee member, alleging discharge of acidic water from the power plant into the Irai river in July 2016. A criminal offence was registered against the CSTPS management later, but the government failed to take corrective measures to reduce pollution.
 
 Roongta demanded directives to Neeri to carry out a study in Chandrapur and nearby areas surrounding open cast mines of WCL and submit an assessment report suggesting solutions for reducing pollution. He also insisted on constitution of a committee comprising environmental experts along with representatives of the government, social organizations and local residents. He has asked that a panel be formed to monitor and supervise steps taken by Mahagenco, CSTPS and WCL for controlling environmental pollution, and for complying with emission norms.
 
 The petitioner also prayed for directives to respondents to strictly comply with protocols concerning fly ash disposal within stipulated period, national ambient air quality standards, restriction on air and water pollution, adequate protection while transportation of coal, and limit of fly ash generation.
 
 
