NEW DELHI:   (SIAM) told the   on Monday that it won’t be possible for it to manufacture BS VI-compliant vehicles before 2020, and sought a window of three months after the March 31, 2020 deadline to dispose of their stocks of Bharat Stage (BS)-VI vehicles.

 The association told a bench of Justices   and Deepak Gupta that the automakers had been granted three years period to upgrade the technology after BS IV was made compulsory in 2017 and it was not possible for auto makers to roll out BS VI vehicles before March end 2020.
 
 “It would be pushing the industry to the wall and it is not possible as the time given to us is less than two and half years. We are already in the process of migrating and we are co-operating with government and oil companies,” the association said. 
 
 Advocate  , who is assisting the court as amicus curaie, told the court that BS VI fuel would be made available in Delhi from April this year and from next year in   region and the auto makers should start manufacturing BS VI vehicles. The court, thereafter, asked the Centre to file affidavit on availability of BS VI fuel.
 
 The Centre told the   that only manufacturing of BS-IV vehicles be banned and not their selling after BS VI norms comes in force on April 1, 2020 to allow automobile manufactures to exhaust their stocks saying that its order banning registration of BS III vehicles from April 1 this year.
 
 
 
 The government on Monday told the   that the impact of black carbon emitted by aeroplanes on monsoon, glaciers and ozone layer is “uncertain”, but its sustained emission could lead to warming of the atmosphere. 
 
 “Sustained emission of black carbon from aeroplanes may create a layer of black carbon at around 10 to 12 km altitude and could warm the atmosphere at that level,” said the minister of state for environment Mahesh Sharma. “However, the impact of black carbon on monsoon, glaciers and ozone layer is quite uncertain,” he said in his written response to a Parliament question. 
 
