Are you a parent looking for a perfect way to engage your child this summer vacation where you want them to have fun and also learn something, be it a sports, science or a hobby?

 G Sathiyan Goripalayam in Madurai is such a parent who wanted to kindle his nine-year-old tech savvy son Darshan Sundaram’s interest in computer. He’s taken Darsan to a newly-launched a robotics lab in the city, in order make good use of his summer vacation.
 
 With summer vacation in full swing, parents and kids are scouting for various summer camps, which can provide fodder for their interest. To cater to the increasing demand, a large number of summer camps are mushrooming in the city. Children have a variety of options to fill their vacation ranging from regular favourites such as swimming, self-defence, yoga, badminton, crafts, skating, attitude building, doll making, abacus, dance, handwriting and music to new innovative activities like robotics.
 
 A private school in city have come up with a plan to provide a life time experience to the kids by offering helicopter rides. However, it is yet to see the light of the day as permission from the aviation authorities is still pending. 
 
 "The classes for robotics started only on Wednesday and already 10 children have been joined the camp. There have been quite a large number of inquiries and we expect around 100 registrations this summer vacation," said S Vignesh, franchise owner of SP Robotics maker lab. He has also plans to start labs at two more places in the city. From circuit building, fixing sensor motor to algorithm framing, the candidates are being trained in various levels like foundation, beginner, advance and expert level. The minimum age for joining the program is 11. Students are taught C programing language so that they can create their own programme and design robots, Vignesh added.
 
 But the evergreen summer activity preferred by most of the children is swimming. The response for the summer camps in swimming in Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) in Madurai has been increasing every year. "The first batch had more than 100 students and coaching for the second batch has just begun. We pick talents from the camps and train them to compete in state and national level competitions," said coach A A Bhaskar. A few hotels have also opened its gate for such summer camps.
 
 Similarly, a large number of children are joining gymnastics conducted by the SDAT. N Karunakaran, a gymnastics coach with SDAT and Madurai district secretary of gymnastic association, says that earlier not many know about the sport, but it is getting popular now. "At least 50 children in the age group of five and 19 are attending the summer camps this year. Parents are now aware of the sport and are sending mostly girls to the sport," he said.
 
 Music classes are always a favourite among the children. A large number of students choose guitar, drums and keyboards. Usually the classes last for one to two hours and charges per month starts at `1500. J Castro from Music Man School of music from Narimedu said that mostly boys choose drums and girls choose keyboards.
 
 
