KOLKATA: This is not the first time that a fire broke out at the Gorabazar market, a bustling trading hub in the busy Dum Dum area. A blaze had gutted a large portion of the market 12 years ago but the traders refused to learn from the mistakes. The result was obvious. Monday’s fire was triggered by a short circuit, and a mesh of electric wires — a clear sign of neglect — made matters worse.

 That many shops in the congested municipality market was stacked with inflammable materials — like polythene wares and kerosene — made it difficult to douse the fire. There was no arrangement for fire-fighting either.
 
 “The fire was spotted at the block where plastic ware shops are located. It took minutes for the flames to spread along the thatched shade,” said an official at the Dum Dum police station. 
 
 It was spotted around 1.35am and by the time the first firetender reached the spot, entry points were out of bounds for the firemen. 
 
 The first gas cylinder, kept inside a restaurant, went off around 3am, triggering panic among the locals. Firefighters managed to enter the market by 4am and hit the core of the fire with water jets. They continued to douse the fire from both ends of the municipality market, which is tucked inside residential units and has shops lined around.
 
 While the fire backtracked for a while, it reared its head again at 4.30am after oil and ghee stored inside grocery stores went up in flames. By 5am smoke started billowing out of the UCO bank branch on the first floor and a garment store on the second floor. “The owner had stacked the shop with new stock keeping the marriage season in mind. Moreover, AC machines had caught fire by then,” Harinder Singh, chairman of Dum Dum Municipality. Firefighters had a tough time cutting through the mesh of overhead power lines to lift the ladder up. 
 
 “Most of the shopowners are small traders with no fire insurance. Many of us had taken loans to refill the stocks. We have turned bankrupt overnight,” rued  , who runs a grocery store in the market for 40 years.
 
 Thick smoke continued to billow out of the market through the day and the fire could be doused completely only by the evening. “We are waiting for the forensic report to gauge the cause of the fire. We will take the next step accordingly,” said DCP Dhrubajyoti De, zone II, Barrackpore commissionerate.
 
 
