 fans and the entire   was heartbroken with the news of the superstar’s conviction in the 1998 Blackbuck poaching case. He was initially sentenced to five years of imprisonment and was sent to the Jodhpur central jail on Thursday evening. After spending a night in jail, his lawyer submitted a 51-page long bail plea which was rejected by the Judge and so the ‘Dabangg’   spent another night behind the bars.

 
  
 
 However, his lawyers did not lose heart and kept fighting for their beloved star to get out and finally, the bail was accepted and Sallu returned home in Mumbai last night. Not just Bollywood stars who are really close with Khan visited him at home, we also got to witness a sea of fans gathered below the actor’s residence to welcome their favourite star and he got extremely emotional after receiving such a warm welcome.
 
 Salman’s conviction was reported to be a huge blow in terms of finances for the Bollywood industry as he has a huge line up of big banner films attached to his back’. ‘Race 3’, ‘Dabangg 3’, ‘Kick 2’ and ‘Bharat’ in his kitty, makers were quite terrified with the conviction. Thankfully, the star is now back in action and will be wrapping up ‘Race 3’ by this month. He was recently in Abu Dhabi along with Bobby Deol, Jacqueline Fernandez, Saqib Saleem and Daisy Shah, where he was shooting the climax scene. 
 
 The producer of the film confirmed the report and told a media portal that since only a song is left to be shot, Salman will be wrapping up the schedule by this month end. He also said that it’s not about the film, as they will keep getting made, we are just glad that ‘bhai’ is out. Even though Salman is free to shoot, as per court’s order, the superstar isn’t allowed to leave the country unless granted permission. The Bishnoi community is planning to move their case to the Rajasthan High Court since they are unhappy with the bail that was granted to Salman. The ‘Race 3’ star will also have to be present on 7 May for the next hearing in the blackbuck poaching case.
 
 
