MANGALURU: Despite disability, Abhishek and Tulsi, victims of  , who took the   exam in the coastal district, have scripted a success story.

 Abhishek has secured 463 (77%) and Tulsi has passed the exams by scoring 66%. Abhishek is the son of Vishwanath and Ganga Ratna, from Perabe, while Tulsi is the daughter of Narayan Naik and Yashodha from Ramakunja.
 
 The two endosulfan poisoning victims of the coast have successfully passed the SSLC exams, proving that disability can’t stop them from achieving their goals. Abhishek and Tulsi are the two students who proved their prowess in the SSLC exam. They received education at the specially-designed schools run by Seva Bharati Mangaluru.
 
 Abhishek suffers from celebral palsy, and he took the help of Swahil to write the exam. Tulsi, who is suffering from 90% physical disability, wrote the exam on her own. However, she would take the help of a proxy when she got tired.
 
 Abhishek is a student of the Koila Care Centre. “He has not taken any separate tuition, and several teachers have helped him to pass with flying colours,” said a relative.
 
 Speaking about his next step, Abhishek said he wants to continue his education. “Everyone thinks that the future of a victim of endosulfan poisoning victim is bleak. One can script their own success through determination and hard work. Like me, there are several other victims of endosulfan poisoning, and they should be given equal opportunity to stand on their own feet,” said an elated Abhishek.
 
 The district administration had granted special permission to four people, including Abhishek and Tulsi in Dakshina Kannada, to take the SSLC exam. The other two include a victim of sexual assault and a student who underwent chemotherapy.
 
 As per reports, nearly 7,000 people in three districts — Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada — suffered the effects of exposure to the toxic pesticide sprayed by the Karnataka Cashew Development Corporation on its farms to kill tea mosquitoes between 1980 and 2000. The government banned the use of endosulfan — proved to cause genetic disorders, fetal anomalies, damage to eyesight, cancer and endocrine disorders — in 2011.
 
 
