Kanyakumari/ Tuticorin: Last month’s fare revision announced by state government was only for the town, mofussil town and private buses. Though no ticket price revision has been announced for mini buses, they have taken the liberty to hike their ticket fare as well. This has affected the rural commuters for whom mini buses are the only source of cost-effective transportation.

 In Kanyakumari district, there are more than 240 mini buses, of which 220 are active. They operate in more numbers in and around Parvathipuram and Asaripallam in Nagercoil and at Marthandam and Karungal. TNSTC officials said mini buses could operate for only 20 km. This includes four kilometres on the main roads where town buses operate.
 
 “Mini buses were given permission for the benefit of the rural populace as they don’t have proper town bus connectivity due to narrow roads and other constrains. Their fare is usually fixed by the concerned regional transport officer, when they get a GO. It was Rs 4 to Rs 6 (distance) till government announced the fare hike,” said a senior TNSTC official.
 
 But in the last two weeks they have been charging Rs 8 to Rs 12 in most routes. Commuters alleged that some of them have even printed tickets for Rs 9 and Rs 12, while others give two Rs 4 tickets for an Rs 8 ticket and two Rs 5 and Rs 6 tickets to collect a fare of Rs 10 and Rs 12 and escape from getting caught.
 
 A government official who got the tickets from a mini bus commuter was shocked to see the letters on the side of the ticket printed in Malayalam. 
 
 “Anything on the ticket should be in the regional language, so that the passenger is aware of what he is paying for,” he said. It is up to the regional transport authorities and police to check such fleecing.
 
 On the other hand, there are dozens of private operators who illegally operate on the bus routes who have also increased fare by Rs 1 or Rs 2. Vans and mini buses have an edge over buses as they stop when commuters wave at them for a pickup and drop at their door step (enroute).
 
 Kovilpatti, in Tuticorin district, is another pocket in Tirunelveli Region where the rural population depends on mini buses to reach the otherwise inaccessible villages. There are around 65 buses operated in that locality of which more than 30 are operated in the town. Fares were as high as Rs 16 and were reduced due to protests from the public.
 
 “Prior to the government bus fare revision we were charging Rs 4 to Rs 6. Now we are charging Rs 7 to Rs 9. We have not revised fares for many years and people don’t complain about the nominal fare revision,” said PSA Rajaguru, president of the Kovilpatti Mini Bus Owners Welfare Association.
 
 
