MUMBAI:  ' campaign in the 11th edition of the   ( ) has unfolded way below expectations. Three wins and six defeats in the nine matches they have played so far means they are on the threshold of elimination. Any slip up in their five remaining matches will spell doom for the three-time champions.

 
 Having defeated   in Indore on Friday, which helped them rise to fifth in the points table, Mumbai host   at the Wankhede Stadium on Sunday.
 
 The perennial slow starters of this competition, Mumbai have played well in patches but have been unlucky to have ended up on the losing side in a couple of close matches.
 
 But their current position means the Rohit Sharma-led side have nothing to lose, and that is what makes them a tricky opposition.
 
 Kolkata senior pro  , however, feels otherwise. "I don't think we are perceiving it from that point of view," Uthappa said on the eve of the match. "We're looking at where we are coming from and what we want to achieve. So, I think the perception is that we have a number of games to go and we need to win a certain number of those.
 
 "For us, it is taking it one game at a time and keeping our goal in the mind. We want to definitely finish in the top-two. So keeping that in mind, we'll work our way up to that place."
 
 Uthappa's confidence is backed by some solid disciplined performances by Kolkata. Having comprehensively defeated Chennai Super Kings on Thursday, Kolkata appear to be heading steadily towards their goal. Led by the wily  , Kolkata come to Mumbai with back-to-back wins and have now jumped to third in the table. Finishing among the top two is, therefore, certainly not a distant possibility for the two-time champions.
 
 With youngsters like Shivam Mavi and   proving their worth, the visitors look compact in all departments. Their only concern is the injury to Nitish Rana. Though the middle-order batsman, who has a back injury, trained with the team on match-eve, the team management doesn't want to take a call on him prematurely.
 
 "Nitish seems like he is in a better place. It's his back. He's getting better but I think the call will be taken tomorrow. All depends on how he feels on match day," Uthappa said.
 
 The ball is now in Mumbai's court. They have bounced back from similar situations of despair in the past, can they do it again?
 
  
  
 
