AMARAVATI/NEW DELHI: In a day of dramatic developments that could alter the political equations in the country ahead of 2019 elections, TDP president and   chief minister   ended days of dithering and on Wednesday night announced that two TDP ministers would quit the   ministry on Thursday to protest the way his state was treated in financial allocations ever since bifurcation on June 2014. This marks the first crack in the BJP-led coalition four years after it stormed to office with a massive mandate.

 
 Within minutes of Naidu’s announcement, state   went into a huddle and announced that their two representatives in the AP cabinet, health minister Kamineni Srinivas and endowments minister P Manikyala Rao, will quit on Thursday. 
  
 
 Talking to reporters in Amaravati on Wednesday night, Naidu said, “The BJPled Central cabinet had failed or rather refused to honour the promises given to people of AP who are upset with the bifurcation. I have the responsibility to respect sentiments of the people and the decision to quit the Union Cabinet is in line with the sentiments.”
 
 Accordingly, Union civil aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju and minister of state for science and technology YS Chowdary are scheduled to tender their resignations on Thursday. Incidentally, Ashok Gajapathi Raju was to inaugurate the biennial Indian aviation show in Hyderabad on Thursday morning and it is highly unlikely he would do so now.
 
 
 
 
 Soon after his press conference, AP CM Chandrababu Naidu tried to contact PM Narendra Modi but he could not speak to him. “I tried reaching out to the PM to inform him about our decision. But sadly, he was unavailable,” he tweeted. “When the purpose of joining the Union cabinet hasn’t been fulfilled, it’s best to resign now.” 
 
 
 
 
 However, Naidu said no decision has been taken on the issue of ending the alliance with BJP both at Centre and the state.
 
 
 Union finance minister   said special category status for AP was not possible and the Centre will help the state only with a special package. Jaitley’s remark was the last straw for Naidu. “I waited for a long time for the central government to fulfil its promises made to the state. Even in the Assembly this evening, I only expressed my anguish still hoping that the central government would consider our reasonable demand (of granting SCS). But, hopes are dashed now,” Naidu said.
 
 TDP sources said two party ministers quitting at the Centre was the first step in Naidu breaking away from NDA altogether. “Naidu will wait for a few more days, perhaps end of the budget session of Parliament before breaking off from BJP and perhaps forge new alliances ahead of next year’s general and assembly elections in the state. 
 
 The day’s developments drove TDP and BJP onto different paths, and could possibly foster new political alliances in AP with YSR Congress likely to come close to NDA. But breaking up with NDA will be politically challenging for Naidu as he would have to convince the AP electorate that he is working in their best interests, return to power to complete the capital construction as well as position himself in national politics.
 
