PATNA: Taking a cue from fast-paced political developments in Karnataka,   chief Lalu Prasad’s younger son and leader of opposition in state assembly   met governor Satya Pal Malik on Friday and staked claim to form the government in the state. 

 “The governor has sought time from us to revert,”   told reporters after meeting the governor. 
 
 Tejashwi, who also handed over the letters of support from  , CPI (ML) and HAM(S) to the governor, claimed the RJD has the support of 111 MLAs. “Being the single largest party in the state, we should be allowed to form the government. Apart from the 111 MLAs who are already with us, more legislators will vote in our favour if we are asked for a floor test,” he said. 
 
 In the 243-member   assembly, the majority mark is 122. The RJD is the single largest party with 80 MLAs, while JD (U) has 71 legislators, BJP 53, Congress 27, Lok Janshakti Party and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party two each, CPI-ML 3, HAM(S) one and independents four. If 80 MLAs of RJD, 27 of Congress, three of CPI (ML) and one of HAM (S) are added, the opposition has the strength of 111 legislators.
 
 “Several JD (U) MLAs are unhappy with the way CM Nitish Kumar has surrendered himself to RSS and BJP. Denial of special category status to the state has not gone down well with these legislators. They are in touch with us,” Tejashwi claimed.
 
 Earlier, Tejashwi, who was accompanied by the Congress, CPI (ML) and HAM(S) functionaries, submitted a memorandum to the governor, stating that the political situation in Bihar was in perpetual turmoil on account of the “great robbery” of mandate in July last year. “RJD is the single largest party and the single largest pre-poll election block in the state. Apart from the existing strength, we are likely to be extended unconditional support by several MLAs, which could only be tested on the floor of the House in the spirit of the Bommai Judgment of 1994 as well as the decision of the Karnataka governor three days ago,” the memorandum read.
 
 The JD (U) led by CM Nitish had parted ways with RJD and Congress in July last year over corruption charges against Tejashwi and joined hands with BJP to form the government in the state. Tejashwi alleged the then Bihar governor Keshari Nath Tripathi had invited JD (U) to form the government despite the fact that RJD was the single largest party in the state. “There has to be one rule in the country. If the Karnataka governor’s decision to invite the BJP on the ground of it being the single largest party was proper, then the same yardstick should be applied to Bihar,” Tejashwi said.
 
 After meeting the governor, Tejashwi sat on a dharna with other party functionaries at Gardanibagh here to protest the “murder of democracy” in the country. Similar protests were organized by RJD at all the district headquarters on Friday.
 
 
