JAIPUR: Chasing target of increasing full immunisation coverage to over 90% in the state by December 2018, the   has started a headcount survey in the entire state of children up to two years to check if they were vaccinated ever or partially vaccinated or fully vaccinated. 

 According to health department officials, the full immunization coverage in the state is 80%. But, the national family health survey (NFHS-4), conducted by the Centre released recently, shows that the percentage of children aged 12-23 months that are fully immunized are 55%. Now, the headcount survey of the health department will further clarify the situation regarding immunization in the state. 
 
 “Our teams are visiting door-to-door in the state. They are collecting record of every child up to two years regarding his immunization status. Each and every aspect of the child regarding immunization will be covered such as when he was vaccinated, what are the vaccines which have already been administered to him and also how many vaccines he has not received yet which are included in national   programme,” said a senior health department official. 
 
 Health department officials pointed out that the survey was to be completed by April 15 but now since they have met some roadblocks, they will be able to complete it by April 30. Officials said that in urban areas the health department’s teams are facing some problems as in some areas, people are not cooperating with them. “We have completed 80% of headcount survey and the rest 20% is left falls in urban areas,” said the official. 
 
 The operational guidelines of   (a national campaign to increase immunization coverage) says, “The headcount survey will be utilized for preparation of name‐based due lists for tracking and mobilization of beneficiaries (Targeted beneficiaries will be pregnant women and children up to two years of age; however, children up to 5 years need to be focussed upon to improve booster dose coverage).”
 
 It further added that due lists for subsequent Mission Indradhanush rounds will be updated using name ‐ based immunization coverage recorded in Mission Indradhanush tally sheets during each round.
 
 
