KOLKATA: The   decided on Friday to stay away from court proceedings next week to protest against the Centre’s apathy in appointing judges.

 The high court has a sanctioned strength of 72 judges but is now working with only 30; two of them have to attend the Port Blair circuit bench. The court now has 2.2 lakh pending cases. It cleared 4,744 cases in December 2017, the last month for which data was available, or a daily average of around 240 cases.
 
  
 Other lawyers’ bodies in the HC — the Incorporated Law Society and   — have supported the five-day cease-work call. But the Trinamool Congress lawyers’ cell, which concluded its relay hunger strike on the same issue on Friday, chose to stay away from the cease-work, saying it was “not consulted”.
 
 The  , the country’s oldest, has witnessed several prolonged cease-works in the past, including a two-month cease-work in November-December 2002 (to protest against a stamp duty price hike). But a prolonged cease-work on the appointment of judges is a first. Bar Association president Uttam Majumdar said: “We met the governor with our demands in September. Six new judges were appointed later that month. We have written to the Chief Justice of India, the PM and the Union law minister since then but no one has responded. Most members decided on the five-day cease-work.”
 
  
 Bar Library Club president Jayanta Mitra said: “Personally, I have always opposed cease-works. I have attended court during previous cease-works. But there comes a time when personal choices have to take a back seat to press for a larger cause. The HC is functioning at less than half its strength. Even a   collegium decision to elevate the acting Calcutta HC chief justice to chief justice has remained unheeded. Calcutta HC hardly has any representation in the apex court.”
 
 The   initially decided only for a day’s cease-work on Monday, but extended it till Friday later on.
 
 Incorporated Law Society secretary Paritosh Sinha said: “We have our backs to the wall. The SC collegium recommendations on December 4 seeking to elevate five members of the bar as HC judges, hasn’t been heeded for over two months. The HC has been functioning with less than half its sanctioned strength.”
 
 Friday’s meeting was undecided over a one-day or a five-day cease-work, prompting members to go for a voice vote. The decision, the resolution read, was taken “as a mark of protest for not taking appropriate and effective steps to fill up the vacancy of judges. Judges are requested not to pass any adverse orders due to the absence of either lawyers or petitioners.”
 
 Last December, the Supreme Court recommended that the Centre appoint five advocates as judges of Calcutta HC.
 
 
