HARIDWAR: An altercation between a senior official responsible for co-ordinating the Char Dham Yatra, and the managing director (MD) of   (GMVN), the nodal agency overseeing the yatra, has dampened the morale of those involved in making preparations for the annual event at the yatra office in Rishikesh.
 
  Tulsi  , assistant general manager (tourism) of the yatra office was, at a meeting in Dehradun some days ago, allegedly rebuked by GMVN MD   who told him, “Have you ever seen your face in the mirror?”   who says he sports a long beard which might have prompted the MD to make the comment, told TOI that “although such a personal remark was uncalled for, I nevertheless took it in my stride.” “However, what hurt me was that the next day, the MD asked me to apply for voluntary retirement,” he said.
  
  He added that he “carried out the boss's order forthwith sending her the VRS application by fax the same evening.” “Copies of my letter were also sent to the CM and other senior officers of the department by post. I am now waiting for a decision on my application. I will leave my job as soon as it is accepted," he added.
  
  The incident meanwhile has affected employees of the yatra office many of whom said that the MD should have been more considerate towards the senior employee — who after a career of over 35 years with GMVN was in any case due to retire two months later. When Khairwal was queried about the issue, she denied making the comment in the form that was attributed to her. "All that I said was 'If you look into the mirror and into your eyes, and you feel you are justified, then it is fine. ....You can lie to the whole world, but not to yourself,'" she told TOI. She added that she had also told Bisht that “since you are about to retire, it is no use issuing you a show-cause notice or warning; either work properly or opt for retirement.”
  
  She further added that the   leading the yatra office had “made a mess of the yatra business.” However, employees termed it as "an unfair allegation since the yatra business had dipped following the after-effects of the Kedarnath tragedy and picked up later." “The income from different kinds of tours conducted during the yatra season in 2013-14 was Rs 6.38 crore. In 2014-15, it dipped to Rs 2.61 crore and then improved in 20015-16 to Rs 4.94 crore. In 2016-17, the income rose to Rs 7.02 crore and by December 2017, the total income had risen to Rs 7.90 crore,” said  , AGM (tourism) based in Dehradun.
