PATNA: The state   would form small groups (tolis) of a mix of party workers and leaders for the massive village outreach exercise during their visit to every household to inform the people at large about the achievements of the   government in the four years in office.

 The fortnight-long village outreach exercise would be from May 26 to June 11. This is being done on the express instruction of the party’s central office, as PM Modi had become PM on May 26, 2014 and would now be completing four years in his office. The state has over 8,000 panchayats, 48,000 villages and over 2 crore families.
 
 “It has been decided to form small ‘tolis’ of party workers and leaders who would reach out to every village and also communicate to them the achievements of PM Modi made in the last four years,” state BJP spokesman Sanjay Singh Tiger said. The party workers would not only sit and discuss with the villagers, but also distribute handbills and folders among them.
 
 The things like the size of the ‘tolis’ and other related matters, like how best to do house-to-house canvassing, were discussed at the state BJP headquarters on Sunday in two shifts. The participants in the meeting were the state office-bearers, district presidents and in charge of the districts concerned. 
 
 State BJP chief Nityanand Rai, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Prem Kumar and Mangal Pandey, general secretary (organization) Nagendraji, among others addressed them and also sought their suggestions on the ways of conducting the house-to-house canvassing regarding the achievements of PM Modi.
 
 Incidentally, BJP president Amit Shah has already reviewed the matters related to the party’s organizational work, like formation of booth committees and deputation of party ‘vistaraks’ at the panchayat level, among other issues, in Delhi over three days beginning May 14. Rai and BJP national general secretary cum   in charge Bhupender Yadav led the team at the review meeting convened by Shah.
 
 
