PATNA: CM   said in the state assembly on Monday that the   festivities “passed off by and large peacefully” in the state, barring in   where the situation was now under control and returning to normal.

 “I am personally monitoring the situation... I discussed the prevailing situation with principal secretary (home) Amir Subhani and DGP K S Dwivedi,” the CM said in response to leader of opposition in the House   Prasad Yadav’s demand that the CM should make a statement on the ongoing arson in Aurangabad.
 
 The CM said ADG (law and order) from the state police HQ was sent to Aurangabad to take follow-up actions and ensure that nobody found guilty was spared. “I have been alerting people and the administration to the possible attempt of certain elements to create ugly situations. The police and civil administrations were vigilant, but some people were hell bent on creating trouble,” the CM said.
 
 Earlier, soon after energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav started giving the government’s reply to the House debate on the Rs 8,615.65 crore budget of the home-police department for 2018-19, Tejashwi intervened, saying, “I want to inform the House that Aurangabad has been witnessing arson for three-four hours now. The CM should make a statement on it.”
 
 Without taking any names, Tejashwi said the son (Arijit Shashwat) of a Union minister (Ashwini Kumar Choubey) has been named in an FIR in connection with the communal tension created in   on March 17, but no action has yet been taken against him (Arijit).
 
 The CM said what Tejashwi had said was “merely a rumour”, and the House could not discuss rumours. 
 
 Later, on the demand of the opposition, the Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary passed the budget of the home-police department by effecting division of votes. When the vote count was done, 92 members voted for the budget, and 64 against it. 
 
 
 
 
 Patna: CM Nitish Kumar on Monday sought to give a lesson or two to RJD president Lalu Prasad’s son and leader of opposition in legislative assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on the dignity of the House.
 
 “Suno babu, you have a long political career before you,” the CM told Tejashwi, adding: “Try to learn something. You cannot discuss rumour in the House because the House has its own dignity and discusses things based on facts.”
 
 Nitish was responding to Tejashwi’s demand in the House that the CM should make a statement on the “arson going on in Aurangabad for three-four hours”. “If you insist, it would be tantamount to using rumours in the House to create social disharmony and tension,” the CM said. TNN
 
 
