Nagpur: Last week, Ajay Phadkar (name changed) distributed invitation cards for the housewarming ceremony of his new residence which he had bought on a home-loan. On the same day, he got to know of the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay High Court's order which took away his nine-year-old government job. The ceremony on Saturday was clouded by fear of repaying the loan with Phadkar’s job at stake. Like him, around 117 middle-aged employees of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) are in a quandary with the court quashing their appointments which took place through an advertisement published by the board in 2009. The employees have reportedly not been promoted nor got any increments since nine years too. As reported by TOI earlier, the court while hearing a few clubbed petitions, pronounced a common verdict on January 22 stating that their appointments across the state were “illegal”. A division bench of justices RD Dhanuka and Sunil Kotwal also directed MPCB to make fresh appointments within four months. While the petitions highlighted various transgressions in the appointment procedure, the affected employees are crying out for justice as they had “nothing to do with the procedure”. “We saw the advertisement, applied for the job, gave an interview and got a confirmation letter,” says a field officer. Published on January 21, 2009, the advertisement invited candidates for 34 vacancies for the post of ‘field officer’ at different centres of the board.  One of the petitions stated that the board selected 105 candidates and kept another 39 in the waiting list. Another petitioner had alleged that the board did not comply with the reservation criteria of 5% for project affected persons (PAP). The employees feel they have become victims of miscarriage of justice. “Why are we being punished if the board breached laws? At that time, we were not even aware that the reservation criteria was not being followed,” say the officers. An officer also points out that the board had stated that it can increase or decrease the number of vacancies. “If the board decided to increase the number of posts, why are our jobs being taken away. Already since nine years, we have not got any benefits as these petitions were pending in the court,” she says. TOI learnt that many of these employees were already working with other government agencies and left their jobs to take up the MPCB post. “Most of us have taken up loans, some are sole earning members of family and it is not fair to throw us out after so many years,” says an officer. If the board starts the re-application process, most of them would not be eligible as they have crossed the age-limit. “Even if we are eligible, how can we compete with this generation? The education scenario has changed a lot. At this age, we can’t study and cope up,” the officers say. MPCB is reviewing the court’s order. Its member secretary MPCB member secretary P Anbalagan says, “We are examining the judgement and taking legal opinions on what the board should do. Based on it, we will file a special leave petition in the Supreme Court.”  The employees are also planning to approach the apex court through their counsels. 