Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this   

 
 Businessman and socialite   Karunakaran, we hear, is keeping a closely guarded secret. He is producing a film in which the main lead is a transgender woman. At a time when members of the LGBT community are being mocked, Ranjit has taken it upon himself to ensure the right portrayal of the community. Our sources tell us that Prithviraj is playing the lead.
 
  
 
 
 Mobin Jacob Kurien is a much-envied man in the city. The married and very vocally in-love-with-his-wife gentleman is always seen in the company of gorgeous women, thanks to his photography. Shaking a leg with leggy beauties or attending high-fashion events and parties, Mobin’s Insta is keenly followed by men who are turning green with envy. Not because of his work but because of the company he keeps. 
 
  
 
 
 Chennai’s Muslim community has its share of super stylish hotties, but two of them have a long list of fans who wait for their social media posts and appearance at events. Thanks to their refined wardrobes and uber luxurious lifestyles, their dapper suits and accessories or even a smirk are much-talked about. Osman Abdul Razak is one of them. The other is travel and logistics biggie Rizwan Sherif, who despite being married, has an ever-increasing line of female fans. Sometimes, marriage is a necessity for the appeal to increase. Good husbands are always sought after, aren’t they? 
 
  
 
 
 Anirudh is still as down-to-earth as he was when he started out. He was at a nightspot recently and an acquaintance wished for him to join him in the birthday cake-cutting celebrations. Instead of thinking twice, Ani excused himself from his group of friends, and even joined the gentleman in his birthday celebrations. Whilst his friends and hangers-on may dish out attitude, Ani is as cool as a cucumber.
 
  
 
 
 Those close to the charming   revel that this young lady shares a very “healthy and magical” friendship with actor Abhinay Vaddi. Perhaps, their friendship began when Keerthy began acting in the movie, the biopic of yesteryear actress, Savithri. Abhinay, who always is seen in the cozy company of his wife Aparna, film folks say, enjoys Keerthy’s simplicity and conversations and it’s nothing to worry about. Some friendships in the industry are just pure and refreshing. 
 
  
 
 
 This popular anchor whose ‘hip heavy’ figure was considered her most striking feature, has undergone drastic weight loss. The lady, who is the belle of the corporate balls, is said to have lost weight, but with it, also a loyal legion of fans who liked her for celebrating those curves rather than trying to fit in with the so-called norms of the TV industry. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
