Nagpur: Empress City’s ten residential flat towers having 400 flats and one IT building do not have fire compliance as well as occupancy certificate. Still, six of the towers and the IT building have been brought into use, violating norms right under the nose of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Dhantoli zone and fire and emergency services department. On Wednesday, Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court pulled up NMC commissioner and chief fire officer for their lackadaisical approach in ensuring fire safety of Empress Mall. The fire violations came to fore with an application submitted by developer KSL and Industries Limited with fire department seeking fire compliance a few days ago. KSL had obtained fire NOC for eight towers of which four were residential one and four were IT buildings with G+12 floors each and one IT building with G+9 floors on January 3, 2008. Confirming the application, chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake told TOI layout and building plans would be sought from KSL as they have not been attached with the application. “Inspection will be done to verify whether any changes have been made in comparison with fire NOC,” he said. KSL had constructed 10 residential towers and one IT building. KSL was supposed to obtain compliance from fire department followed by occupancy certificate from Dhantoli zone before giving possession of flats. Also, KSL was supposed to get its revised building plan sanctioned for user change from IT to residential for four towers. KSL reportedly gave possession of flats in six towers a couple of years ago. IT building has also been brought into use for commercial purpose. Uchake said fire department wrote to MSEDCL asking it to snap power supply to all residential towers in December 2017. “KSL then applied with requisite documents. KSL also requested that power supply be continued,” he said. Though six residential towers are in use, KSL has sought fire compliance for only first three. TOI on January 8 had reported about NMC town planning department rejecting KSL’s revised layout plan for Empress City and mall. Accordingly, KSL’s revised building plan for residential towers and mall could not be submitted for approval. Uchake said fire compliance could not be issued in case there was change in user and also in absence of revised layout and building plans’ sanction. “We cannot move forward with disconnection of power supply as we have received certificate highlighting installation of fire systems,” he said. KSL’s architect Rajender Phalkar said they were confident of getting fire compliance. “We have installed all types of fire systems. Application seeking fire compliance for three more towers will be submitted soon. Then we will apply for occupancy certificate. We will comply with all rules,” he said. An official from NMC Dhantoli zone said notice was also for bringing residential buildings into use without occupancy certificate long back. “We need to verify whether stay given by High Court also covers that notice,” he said.