CHENNAI: A week after the   asked the Madras high court to take a decision on petitions filed by  , son of former union finance minister  , challenging the CBI's decision to issue lookout circulars (LOC) against him which prevented his travel abroad, the high court directed   to file its reply by February 12.

 In addition to the CBI, the central immigration department has also been directed to file its response by the first bench of the court headed by Chief Justice Indira Banerjee.
 
 On Wednesday, Karti moved the high court seeking to permit him to travel to the UK and France between February 15 and 28 and once again between March 20 and 31. 
 
 Claiming that he wanted to travel abroad in his capacity as the director of Totus Tennis Limited, a company engaged in the sports business, in the field of tennis tournaments, talent and training,he said, "In connection with the business activity, I have to travel to the UK and Europe. In addition to conducting ATP tournaments in France, Austria, Germany and Spain, Totus’s has an objective to identify budding tennis players and impart world-class training to them, in return for a revenue share of their professional earnings. I have to attend meetings in respect of the business of Totus, finalizing detailed plans for business. Hence, it is not possible to conduct the business from India and a travel to the UK and France becomes imperative," Karti said. 
 
 The issue pertains to an FIR registered by the CBI in the alleged irregular approval of Rs 305 crore foreign investment in INX Media in 2007 allegedly at the behest of Karti when his father was the union finance minister. The agency issued lookout circulars against Karti and others on August 16 and August 18.
 
 On August 10, 2017, a single judge bench of the high court stayed the lookout circulars and permitted Karti and others to travel abroad. On CBI's appeal questioning the high court's jurisdiction to entertain the petition when the FIR was registered in Delhi, the apex court on August 14, 2017 stayed the order and directed Karti to appear before the agency.
 
 Last week, when the plea came up for hearing before the Supreme Court, it asked Madras high court to take a decision on the petitions filed by Karti and others challenging the lookout circulars within two months. The court said it would be open to the CBI to question the high court's territorial jurisdiction to entertain the issue when the FIR was lodged in Delhi.
 
 This apart, the petitioner has roots in the society and a responsible citizen and   member. Hence the question of fleeing country does not arise, the counsel for the petitioner said.
 
 
