LUDHIANA: As thousands of   are voting in the coming Municipal Corporation polls slated for February 24, they have pinned high hopes from the elections, and want their elected representatives to improve basic public infrastructure in the city. The first-time voters consider issues like proper roads, street lights, hygienic surroundings, and a pollution-free atmosphere as major ones, and do not hesitate in asserting that they would vote for candidates they think will work for them.

 “Since first-time voters form a sizeable number of voters, we can decide the outcome of elections. I will vote for a candidate who is literate, accessible, doesn’t make fake promises, and works hard on the ground. In our area, bad roads and water-logging during the rainy season are some issues, but the main issue is the stray dog menace, and the civic body has not been able to do much about it. My own family member became a victim of the menace, and I was lucky to survive an attack by them,” said Tavleen Khurana (19), a student of Model Gram. She added that defacement of houses was another issue they had to face during elections, but they hope their elected representative does something about it.
 
 As Ludhiana is known for being among the world’s top 20 polluted cities of the world, for many first-time voters, a pollution-free city is a big issue. “Apart from feeling bad for my city being tagged as among the world’s 20 most polluted cities, we actually suffer due to the polluted air in the city. During peak pollution seasons, including harvest time and Diwali, it is difficult to breathe in the city, and one does suffer due to respiratory diseases. MC and the representatives we elect have a major role in tackling the issue and working for a pollution-free Ludhiana. We need to give it to the future generations,” said Jaspreet Singh (20) from BRS Nagar.
 
 Many first-time voters also consider the traffic issue in the city as a major one. “Traffic problem is a major issue for us, and in this, MC has a big role to play, as it provides the basic infrastructure related to traffic. We have seen years ago that traffic lights were not working properly, after which they were replaced when people started demanding for them. There are other traffic-related infrastructure which the MC should provide, apart from rectifying the designs of dark spots on roads, so that accidents are checked and traffic flows smoothly in the city,” said   (21) of  .
 
 The first-time voters consider that despite living in urban localities, there are many problems they are facing. “All I expect from my area is that it should be clean, and the roads smooth. In spite of the fact that I live in a so-called urban locality, the above facilities are not provided. I wish the new MC isn’t just bothered about their personal interests and socializing, but genuinely make the neighborhood worth living,” said Inayat (28) from Civil Lines, a jewellery designer and advocate.
 
 Nikhil (19), student, Gandhi Nagar: “Street roads are not properly constructed, and there is a street light problem as well in our area. Also, the stray dog menace is a major issue in our locality which needs to be tackled by the civic body. We will vote on the basis of these issues, and vote for the candidate who we think will address these issues.” 
 
  (18), student, Bal Singh Nagar: “In our area, bad roads are a major problem, and there are no parking spaces as well. There is not much greenery in the areas, and we expected the MC and the newly-elected councillor to work for a clean and green Ludhiana.” 
 
 Tania Bansal (23), business entrepreneur,  : “I hate high pollution levels in the city, and want the new MC to work for a pollution-free Ludhiana. It is not an impossible mission to achieve. I also want the civic body to come up with more parking lots in the city, particularly in Ghumar Mandi, Sarabha Nagar, and Model Town. So far, we haven’t seen such dreams being fulfilled, but we will vote for candidates we think will work in this direction.” 
 
 
