Butahari (Dehlon): The Homeopathic and Allopathic health centre in Bada gurudwara has been catering to patients from economically weaker sections for the last two years. Thanks to the contributions of NRIs and village residents, the centre provides medical care to poor village residents for a nominal charge of Rs 10 to Rs 20. Regular tests are also conducted at the same heavily subsidised price. 

 “The centre runs on donations from village residents and NRIs. The contributors don’t reveal their identity as they believe in serving society in anonymity and not for credit. The health centre started about two years back with a homoeopathic dispensary. On receiving a positive response, the allopathic centre was launched six months ago,” said Iqbal Singh, a farmer from the village who does sewa (service) at the centre. He said the laboratory was set up a few days ago. 
 
 “We treat more than 100 patients from the village and neighbouring areas on a daily basis. Earlier, we did not open on Sundays but given the great response, we are open on Sundays as well,” said Sukhmail Singh Lali, who sits at the reception. He said the cost of treatment at the homeopathy centre is Rs 10 and at the allopathic centre, it is Rs 20.
 
 Village sarpanch Kulsher Singh said, “Poor residents from villages like Bhiki, Khatra, Rara Sahib, Mukandpur, Katari, Dhol Majra, Gurm, Gopalpur, Padi, Rurka, Lohgarh, Jargari and Jagera also visit the centre. We appreciate everyone who is contributing to the cause, including more than 100 NRIs living in United States of America, Canada, UK, New Zealand, Italy and other countries.” 
 
 The doctor working at the health centre said they receive patients with routine ailments. “Patients suffering from respiratory problems, cold, cough, viral fever, high blood sugar and gastric problems visit us. We give them medicines free of cost. Apart from that we have a laboratory for stool, urine, blood and sugar tests so that village residents don’t have to travel to hospitals more than 8 km from here,” said Dr Shakti Sharma, who has been working here for seven months. 
 
 Patients are grateful for the affordable and accessible healthcare. “I have high blood sugar and cannot afford expensive treatment in city hospitals. This centre is a blessing for us. We thank those who are by our sides and helping us get effective treatment at such a low cost,” said Surjeet Kaur, a village residents.
 
 
