Manali: Saying that the enforcement of town and country planning (TCP) rules in villages close to Manali will leave many homeless and shut down many homestay units,   here have written to the chief minister to exempt villages from planning area.

 While the state government has filed a petition with the NGT to review its order to limit the buildings to two-and-half storeys in towns, the Kullu Manali Paryatan Vikas Mandal (KMPVM), a joint platform of all organizations and unions of the district, has prayed to the government to appeal in the apex court against quashing of Section 30-B of the Himachal Pradesh TCP Act, which allowed regularization of unauthorized constructions. They said if all such structures were demolished, hundreds of families would be affected. Also, they requested that villages of Manali should be kept out of the purview of the TCP.
 
 President of the KMPVM Anup Ram Thakur said the high court on December 22, last year, had quashed Section 30-B, which would have given many people a chance to regularize their properties. “The unauthorized constructions started only due to increase in population, which burdened the limited area. The rich from outside Himachal raised a large number of commercial buildings in Kullu-Manali against TCP rules and villagers followed the practice without having knowledge of the law. Such people should be provided relief,” he maintained.
 
 They also said villages here also come under the purview of the TCP, but it was impossible for villagers to construct legal buildings. “We already have limited land in villages. On an average, each family has 100-400 sq m of land. It is further divided among brothers. Some of them want to run homestays and guest houses. How it is possible to raise a structure as per TCP norms. When we have limited land, we are forced to make multi-storey buildings and leave minimum setbacks.”
 
 The villagers also had a meeting with TCP officials in Manali and expressed their concern on both issues. They said many people had sold their land and took loans from banks to build hotels and other commercial properties, which were now being termed as illegal and could face action. “This way many will become homeless. If the government wants to promote tourism, especially rural, a special policy is required to be framed. The TCP Act, 1977, was meant for urban areas and later it was extended to villages in 2002. It should be restricted to towns only,” they said.
 
 Thakur added that they had asked TCP additional chief secretary to exempt villages from the TCP in 2015, who had then written to the TCP director in this regard. “The matter is under consideration. They did correspondence with us. But no action has been taken so far. The CM is visiting Manali in a few days and we shall meet him,” he added.
 
 
