BHOPAL/INDORE: Last year was no fluke. Madhya Pradesh has repeated its Swachh success with Indore and Bhopal retaining the top two slots in the 2018 Sarvekshan, the results of which were announced on Wednesday.

 
 The passionate – almost frenzied – effort to retain the top slots, which led to litterbugs being glared at, or even thrashed, has paid off. In Indore, the mayor herself chased down two spitters, tracked them to their homes and slapped them with fines. In Bhopal, roadside waste dumps almost disappeared
 
 from the city. Many residential societies started blacklisting families that didn’t segregate waste.
 
 In terms of passion and commitment, there was no beating Indoreans and Bhopalis, who were, in fact, competing with each other – one to hold on to the top slot, the other to claim it.
 
 A tweet -- ‘Congratulations #Indore & #Bhopal for a repeat performance at #1&2’ - by   MoS housing and urban affairs,  , ended the suspense and set off celebrations in Indore and Bhopal. “Indore and Bhopal can give any city in the world a run for their money in cleanliness,” Puri announced.
 
 The rankings have come as a shot in the arm for the state government in election year. “I am happy and proud of the achievement by the two cities of MP for retaining their rank. I also thank the public for awareness and dedication to fulfil the mission of Swachh Bharat,” tweeted CM  . “Tireless efforts for cleanliness, awareness and planning has helped Indore and Bhopal reach the peak... Congratulations to all.”
 
 What makes it even sweeter is that nearly 10 times as many urban areas (4203) were surveyed this year.
 
 Turning waste and wasteland into compost and gardens worked half the magic for Indore. Over the past year, MP’s commercial hub has taken even greater strides in waste segregation and management. Entire dumpyards have been turned into gardens and less than 5% waste now goes to the landfill.
 
 
 * ‘Sustaining top ranks a challenge’
 
 Indore mayor Malini Gaud credited the success to the people of the city, where Swachh consciousness has reached such a level that litterbugs get glared at — or worse. Schools, hospitals, residential localities and commercial establishments competed with each other in the ‘Best of the Best contest’ the IMC started.
 
 About 200km away, Bhopalis were competing with their cousins to pip them to the post. The jingle, ‘Is baar No. 1’, became a catchword and there was almost frenzied effort to go one up on Indore. BMC commissioner Priyanka Das said, “The 2018 survey was more competitive than last year. Incremental improvements in collection and disposal of waste were needed. We focused on evaluation criteria of the survey and improved upon those parameters.”
 
 “We are proud of the achievement. Sustaining the top ranks for Indore and Bhopal was a challenge and we overcame it,” said MP urban administration and housing department (UAHD) principal secretary, Vivek Agarwal.
 
 Lok Sabha Speaker and local MP Sumitra Mahajan gave municipal sweepers their due, calling them the “backbone of this achievement”. “Sanitation workers have done a commendable job and are praiseworthy. Indore has now become an inspiration for the other cities,” she said.
 
 And in an indication of just how Indore did it, civic officials have already begun preparing to up the game next year. “Indore will focus on reducing waste, and experimentation is already on. IMC will hand out pots to convert wet waste into compost in households,” IMC commissioner Asheesh Singh said, outlining the roadmap for 2019. 
 
