MADURAI: For M  , a penurious fifty-year-old man from the city, an energising atmosphere of a spacious hospital ward and its tidy surroundings had never appeared an option for his treatment until a bunch of good-hearted souls came together to help him.

 Nethravathi, as is the centre known as, is shelter where destitutes in need of health care are taken care of. Arunachalam is one of the 29 inmates at the centre– a pain, palliative care & rehabilitation centre for which a state-of-the art building was inaugurated on Saturday.
 
 The centre is a brainchild of group of doctors who were working in corporate hospitals but dedicating their leisure hours to treat poor people in a small clinic Aishwaryam at   in the city in 2014. 
 
 The doctors set up the centre, realising that the abandoned and the poor in the city required a palliative facility when they fall terminally ill.
 
 But finding a building was not easy as expected, because landlords were hesitant to lease their properties for a facility where people may die. Managing all odds, they started their centre at   in 2016 in a rented building, and started accommodating inmates, who were mostly abandoned terminally ill people. However, there was a need to construct a proper building for the facility, when a good hearted couple from Madurai learnt about their plight through newspapers.
 
 “We were running an old-age home earlier but have to close it down for some reasons. When we learnt about this group of doctors, we thought they were the right ones to pursue our dream, so we have contributed the land required for building,” said  , a former Customs & Central Excise staffer. Her husband, Janarthanan was a former telecommunication staff.
 
 The couple donated their 27 cents land to the centre, which they have earmarked in the past to start an old-age home. After learning about their initiative, many came forward to help these doctors, making the dream a reality. M G  , managing director of Kerala State IT Infrastructure, and his wife Nishanthini, SP, Kerala Police inaugurated the facility along with Janarthanan and Jalaja. The IAS & IPS couple are one among the patrons of the centre.
 
 “A good number of patrons are helping us to run this centre. I pledge to stick to this noble mission for as long as i can,” said Dr R Balagurusamy, Managing Trustee of the centre.
 
 
