CHENNAI: In a significant development, Union water resources secretary U P Singh has called for a meeting of four   states in New Delhi on March 9 to discuss the constitution of the  . 

 The moves comes on a day when   and DMK MPs came together at the Rajya Sabha and demanded implementation of the court order on constitution of Cauvery Management Board. The MPs rushed to the well and created ruckus, forcing repeated adjournments of proceedings.
 
 Meanwhile, the ministry has held internal discussions on setting up the board, as recommended by the Cauvery water disputes tribunal, and the consultative process will set the ball rolling.
 
 The senior officer told TOI that he had invited the chief secretaries and principal secretaries of water resources to elicit views to set up the board, as per the court order. The invite comes against the backdrop of TN parties and farmers' associations exerting pressure on the Centre, as a fortnight lapsed since the court ordered a scheme for implementation of its order. The Centre would set up the board and the board in turn would set up a regulation committee, Singh said. 
 
 
 
 
 “We have different models in the country now (for implementing the orders of tribunals in the past). We would like the basin states to be on board on whatever we do. We will elicit their views on form, content, functions, roles and responsibilities of the board and later go to Union cabinet for approval,” the secretary said over telephone.
 
 
 The government would set up the board and the latter would set up a regulation committee as per tribunal order, Singh said. “It depends on what kind of response we get from the first meet with states. We may or may not require further meetings,” the officer said. “There are a few things which have to be discussed and finalised. We still have time. SC has given us six weeks to either implement the orders of the apex court or approach it with a review petition, which we are not contemplating,” the secretary said. The Centre wants to shape the mechanism to be either supervisory or to operate, maintain and release water.
 
 
 The ruling AIADMK, which is facing the wrath of the opposition for not getting PM Modi’s appointment for all-party and farmers’ delegations from the state, stepped up pressure in both Houses of Parliament on Monday, leaving the Chair to adjourn repeatedly and later wind up for the day. AIADMK RS MP V Maitreyan expressed displeasure over the developments. “What is the point in calling for a meeting? Let them first announce the constitution of the board. They will hold the meeting on March 9, and again adjourn for another week. It is all delaying tactics. Until the board is set up, we will continue to protest in Parliament,” the leader said.
 
 
 The Cauvery tribunal recommended that the Cauvery management board be constituted on the lines of Bhakra Beas Management Board by the Centre. Unless an appropriate mechanism was set up, the prospect of implementation of its decision would not be secured.
 
 
 
