BENGALURU: Less than a month after its rollout, the first mobile application launched by the   (Bescom) has seen a phenomenal response. As of January 15, the   Mithra app has seen 35,625 downloads, including 28,191 in Bengaluru Urban and 2,027 in Bengaluru Rural.

 Touted as a one-stop solution for redressal of consumer grievances and two-way communication between aggrieved users and Bescom engineers, the app has a separate dashboard where engineers can track the progress of complaint resolution and update consumers.
 
 Bescom claims all 1,165 complaints received from users across the state have been resolved.   Dsouza, director general manager (DGM), technical innovation centre (TIC), said the response time for attending to grievances on the app had come down by 20 minutes as compared to complaints made to the control room.
 
 “It takes an hour to resolve complaints on an average. Our turnaround time on the app is just 40 minutes and we know it will reduce further. We are happy with the response and want more people to download the app so that we can work towards meeting their expectations,” he said.
 
 Consumer complaints have been divided into categories and engineers have been assigned to each of them. Consumers’ account IDs are geo-tagged, making it easy for vehicles to reach the site. According to Bescom officials, the most common complaints are to do with power outages. 
 
 The app is also being widely used to pay bills. As of January 15, 8,078 customers from across the state made payments amounting to Rs 94,57,777. “A new user will be able to access his/her electricity bills for the last year, track their consumption and make changes. The system also helps us send alerts to those with pending bills,” said Dsouza.
 
 
 
 
 Several people have taken to online platforms to announce their renewed confidence in the Bescom Mithra service, saying now they don’t have to rely on a third party to process their payments. “I can pay my bill without using a third-party app. I appreciate the fact that Bescom is taking an initiative to take direct feedback from customers,” Anand Ramachandran wrote on the   Playstore web page for the app.
 
 There are complaints too, with customers voicing frustration over what they call ‘one more government app’. The complaints range from the app hanging frequently to the one time password (OTP) not getting generated. Similar comments have been made on Bescom’s Facebook page. “We have taken each online complaint seriously. We have replied to every comment asking for complaint numbers, account IDs or more information. While some people respond to our replies, many don’t. A dialogue needs to be created for things to change,” said Dsouza.
 
 Bescom is working on making its field workers aware of all the app features and the scope of services so that they become “individual evangelists”. “We are doing a sentiment analysis to judge people’s experience of the app. We have different ideas — like a feature that will be rolled out soon to enable tracking of the vehicle sent to resolve complaints — that we are testing in various divisions. We are trying to shrug off the perception that it is just another government initiative by adopting a corporate approach and taking feedback,” he said.
 
 
 
  
  
 
