GURUGRAM:   are divided over the Haryana government’s decision to make recitation of   mandatory during   in all schools. 

 On February 23, education minister Ram Bilas Sharma had said, “The decision was taken after a meeting with principals, teachers and other stakeholders. A notification in this regard will be sent to the schools by February 27.” However, the notification hadn’t been issued by Tuesday, the deadline. 
 
 Some city schools welcomed the decision. Ritu Bedi, principal of Red Roses School, Palam Vihar said, “This is a good decision. We’ve already included the mantra in our morning prayers.” Renu Sethi, principal of Lady Florence Middle School, Basai road, agreed, saying, “Students have been reciting the mantra for a long time now. It helps increase concentration and is important in imparting moral values in students.”
 
 However, officials of other schools weren’t impressed. In-charge of the primary section of Our Lady of Fatima School, Old DLF, Sector 14 said, “I don’t know about any such notification. The decision to incorporate the mantra in our morning prayers will be taken by our headquarters.” Similarly, Seema Sharma, principal, Lord Jesus School, Vijay Park said, “When we receive the notification, we’ll think over it. I’ll have to consult the management.” Atul Bhatt, principal,  , said, “Students already recite shlokas and say morning prayers in our school. Shlokas are also recited during special events.”
 
 Tarun Suhar, president of the primary teachers’ association of government schools in the state, said, “Students of all government schools have been reciting this mantra for years. This notification is meant for private schools, where reciting the Gayatri Mantra isn’t mandatory yet. Knowing this mantra is good for students and should be compulsory everywhere.”
 
 In a statement, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had said, “Reading, writing and arithmetic may be vital, but these are not enough. Moral values must be inculcated in children, which will help them to grow into responsible citizens and become an asset to society.” Khattar also underlined the significance of moral values in curbing the tendency to commit crime. 
 
 
