MOHALI: Body of a 22-year-old woman, who had gone missing from Mohali, was fished out from   near Patiala on Thursday night.

 
 The police found a notebook from the bag of Manpreet Kaur in which she had written to her parents in 10 pages, “I am taking this step because I am fed up with my body. Nobody is responsible for this extreme step. Love you mom, daddy and brother. Forgive me if possible.” 
 
 Each page had two to three words written in bold in Punjabi. The bag was lying on the bank of the canal, said a police officer investigating the case. 
 
 Manpreet, who belonged to Bhagwantpura village in Ropar, was a BCom-II student at Government College, Phase VI, Mohali. She went missing on April 27 and was last seen at Mohali bus stand in Phase VI.
 
 “Locals spotted her body around 8pm on Thursday and we were informed by the Ropar police,” said a cop. 
 
 Apart from the suicide note, police have also found a passport-size photo and a bus pass from her bag. Manpreet used to travel daily to her college on state transport buses and return home in the evening. When Manpreet didn’t come back on the evening of April 27, her father  , who works in the Punjab sports department, lodged a complaint at Phase-I police station the next day.
 
 Phase VI police post in-charge Dilbag Singh said, “The body was recovered from Bhakra canal passing through Bhyora village, Ropar. Her bag, dupatta and sandals were found outside the canal. Her body has been handed over to the family after a post-mortem examination and we have started proceedings under Section 174 of the CrPC.” 
 
 However, Darshan Singh, maternal uncle of Manpreet, alleged that the note was not written by Manpreet. He said, “The note was in big-sized words on over 10 pages. So it is hard to identify her writing. She has stated in the note that she was unhappy with her body. She was neither ill nor body shamed, then why would she write this? On April 27, she went to the college and when she reached the bus stand to return home she told her friend that she was going to the gurdwara in Phase VI. We scanned the footage of   cameras installed in nearby places, but she was not seen entering the gurdwara.”
 
 Investigating officer ASI   said, “We have asked the family members to provide us with the samples of Manpreet’s handwriting. We will get it checked from handwriting experts in the forensic division.” 
 
 Sources in Government Hospital, Phase VI, where the post-mortem examination was conducted, said no bruises were found on her body.
 
 
