HYDERABAD: A day after Telangana CM   tried to position himself nationally, mooting a “People’s Third Front” as an alternative to BJP and Congress, he claimed on Sunday that several political figures, including Trinamool   chief  , supported him. 

 Speaking at a rally at his camp office here, KCR said he had received calls from Mamata, former Jharkhand CM Hemant Soren, six MPs from Maharashtra and Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan, seeking an alternative front. 
 
 Telugu Desam Party, which had threatened to pull out of the NDA over 
  to  , lent indirect support to KCR, saying states were at a disadvantage in the current dispensation.
 
 TDP spokesperson Y V B   said the party was keeping an eye on the development. “We agree with KCR on this issue. Andhra Pradesh is bearing the brunt of the crisis.” On Saturday, TRS president KCR had announced that he would play a key role in national politics to “usher changes”. 
 
 He also said he would meet various party leaders and was ready to lead the third front. Addressing party workers on Sunday, KCR said, “Mamata Banerjee called me this afternoon and conveyed her support. 
 
 She agreed with me that there was a necessity for qualitative change in country’s politics. 
  she will work with me.” KCR launched an attack on the NDA government, saying the Centre should focus on foreign policy and leave governance to states. “We need cooperative federalism, where states get more powers. Subjects such as health, education, agriculture and urban development should be under the states. The Centre should deal with foreign policy, armed forces and national highways,” he said. 
 
 KCR said Soren had also expressed solidarity with him and welcomed his decision to play a key role in national politics. Also, six MPs from Maharashtra, several intellectuals expressed support to the chief minister. Pawan Kalyan welcomed KCR’s decision. 
 
 He said there was a need for a third front as regional parties play a key role at the Centre. “KCR has the ability to lead the front and we would support it,” he said. KCR reiterated his decision to enter national politics with “a clear mind and not with emotion”. “When I launched the Telangana movement, people had doubts about its result. Finally, our commitment paid off,” he said.
 
