PATNA: Even as the number of arrests in connection with communal clashes in the state went up to 178, fresh clashes between police and youths participating in   were reported from Nalanda and   districts on Wednesday.

 Nalanda DM Thiyagarajan SM said a clash took place between police and youths in Silao block of the district when a   procession deviated from its permitted route on Wednesday morning.
 
 “Police had to resort to mild lathicharge as the processionists refused to obey orders. An FIR was lodged and 14 people were arrested,” the DM said, adding he in the evening ordered snapping of the internet services in the district for the next 48 hours to prevent rumour-mongering.
 
 In a similar incident, Ram Navami processionists changed their permitted route in Girhinda area in Sheikhpura district on Wednesday evening after which police resorted to lathicharge. An FIR has been lodged, DM Dinesh Kumar told TOI over the phone and added raids were on to arrest the 15-20 youths who clashed with police.
 
 In Munger, a clash took place between two groups after stones were allegedly thrown on a Durga idol procession under the Kotwali police station area around 9.30pm on Tuesday.
 
 DM Uday Kumar Singh said seven people were arrested. “The situation is now peaceful even though I have not ordered snapping of the internet services in the district,” he said.
 
 Both the DMs denied any damage to public property.
 
 In   where communal violence took place on Sunday and Monday, 44 more people were arrested in addition to the 122 jailed on Tuesday in connection with the violence.
 
 While three FIRs had been lodged till Tuesday, Aurangabad DM Rahul Ranjan Mahiwal said seven more FIRs were being lodged on the basis of the CCTV footage and video recordings of the violence.
 
 “We are also in the process of estimating the losses to public and private properties and a report will be sent to the state government soon,” DM Mahiwal said and added 2,000 and odd police personnel, including three companies of  , one company of SSB and two companies of STF commandos, were deployed in the affected areas of the district.
 
 According to  , police have arrested a man in connection with the disturbances at Gudri Bazaar under the   police station area on Tuesday. Police said the trouble began when two slippers accidentally fell on a Ram Navami procession after which the processionists put up a religious flag on a mosque. 
 
 “The administration organised a peace committee meeting which was attended by members of the two communities,” DM Kumar said on Wednesday evening and added, however, that the internet services would remain suspended in the district till 10am on Thursday.
 
 
