The presence of virtually every opposition party on the dais at   chief minister H D Kumaraswamy’s swearing-in ceremony on Wednesday has once again triggered talk on whether the arithmetic of a grand alliance can derail   in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. It has added to the speculation triggered by the   and   bypoll results in mid-March. A close look at the data from the 2014 polls, however, suggests that arithmetic alone will yield modest dividends beyond Uttar Pradesh.

 
 We looked at scenarios of plausible opposition alliances in each of the states and Union territories in which BJP won seats in the last Lok Sabha elections. We then added the votes of these potential allies in that election to see how much the outcome would have changed for BJP.
 
 
 
  
 
 What we found was that while BJP could lose as many as 46 of the 71 seats it won in UP, in the rest of the country, the arithmetic of opposition unity would cost it a mere 12 seats. Against this is a gain of two seats it would have won in   if it had been in alliance with JD(U) as it now is. Thus, the net loss across all states and UTs other than UP would have been just 10 seats.
 
  
  
 
 All told, therefore, going purely by arithmetic and the votes actually polled by different parties in 2014, BJP would still end up with 226 seats, still making it comfortably the single-largest party and hence best placed to form the government.
 
 Of course, elections are much more than a Class 2 exercise in plus and minus. Votes just don’t add and subtract quite as simply as that, as Gorakhpur and Phulpur clearly demonstrated. Had arithmetic alone been at work, BJP would have retained both seats. Also, none of the four other LS seats it has lost in bypolls since 2014 — Ratlam, Gurdaspur, Ajmer and   — would have slipped away if it were just arithmetic.
 
 
  
 What the analysis highlights, therefore, is the limitations of depending on simple arithmetic. There must be some chemistry too. Just the coming together of erstwhile foes can sometimes create a bit of chemistry, as in Bihar in 2015 or in Gorakhpur and Phulpur. But often it can prove difficult for such parties to persuade their voters to vote for each other’s candidates.
 
 
 
  
 
 Another element of the chemistry depends on what the combine represents. Being seen solely as a tactical coming-together to defeat a common enemy can prove insufficient. A positive agenda that seems believable and taps into the electorate’s own desires can have a powerful catalyzing effect. Momentum, or the perception of being on a roll, can be an important element of chemistry too.
 
 The big if for 2019, thus, is not just about the arithmetic, but also the chemistry. 
 
 
