KOLKATA: Very few localities in Kolkata have witnessed illegal construction like the neighbourhoods in Park Circus, Bright Street,   and the T3 belt of Tangra,   and Tiljala have. While it will not be incorrect to say that a strong police-politician-promoter nexus is executing this uneven and unplanned growth, there are factors like disappearance of mixed neighbourhoods that are fuelling the proliferation of these ghettos. 

 The murder of a promoter by a rival on Tuesday over a piece of land in Bright Street — situated less than 500m from   and nestled between gated highrises — is only one of the many indicators of rapid ghettoization over dwindling supply of land. A mid-sized apartment near Quest Mall or Park Circus market costs anything between Rs 70 lakh to Rs 80 lakh. In areas like Bright Street, Dilkusha Street and Shamsul Huda Road the prices range between Rs 35 lakh to Rs 55 lakh, but most are illegal structures.
 
 “Ghettoes like those in Park Circus or Rajabazar provide a culturally homogenous environment and lend a sense of security due to high numbers. This is the reason ghettoes are bursting at seams,” said  , a resident of  , a gated highrise overlooking Tuesday’s murder spot.
 
 The hinterland of these localities is clogged with narrow lanes, rickety tenements, overflowing sewers and small rubbish mounds. “Taxis and buses can’t enter the narrow lanes, making autos the only means of transport. They flout rules and harass the passengers,” said Asif Raza, a resident of Rifle Range Road.
 
 This tendency to ghettoise has created lucrative business opportunities for builders who have started constructing illegal and substandard residential buildings which are selling out fast. Such is the demand in areas like Park Circus, Metiabruz, Rajabazar and Topsia, that most builders construct the entire building with the money from prospective buyers. 
 
 “Everybody wants to own a house, but most people cannot afford the legal market prices which is why we do illegal construction. It is cheaper because we do not leave out space according to civic rules. Every foot is monetised,” said a builder on Dilkusha Street.
 
 But there is a trigger to cause clashes in areas like Bright Street, Karaya and Dilkusha Street. These places are situated on the border of the fiefs of Trinamool satraps belonging to the Muslim community. While one controls the T3 belt, the other reigns over areas like Elliot Road, Park Street, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and Beniapukur.
 
 
