BHOPAL: People woke up to sounds of four gunshots in   on Friday morning, after a drunk youth opened fire just because an elderly vendor refused to bow down to his whims for tea and cigarette.

 
 According to  , one of the bullets injured the foot of a man standing at the tea stall. The accused fled after the incident while the injured man was taken to hospital from where he was discharged after treatment. Police said the incident has been recorded in   at a nearby house. The SUV was a white Pajero with tinted glasses.
 
 
 The police are very close to identify the accused. He is believed to be a habitual offender, Yaseen, but police did not reveal the identity till evening hours.
 
 
 The incident took place near VIP road where the chief minister flagged off a walkathon organised to create awareness on women’s safety in the backdrop of rising crime against women. All the top officials and city police were present on the spot, as CM participated in the walkathon.
 
 
 Police said at around 5.30 am, Ramesh Chandra (70) was busy in opening his tea stall when a youth, who appeared to be drunk, came to him and asked for a tea and cigarette. When the elderly man told him that it would take some time to make tea, the youth got irked and asked Chandra whether he knows him or not.
 
 
 The elderly man replied that he did not know him, but said he is running the shop for past 19 years. Irked by the answer, the accused went to his SUV saying that he would know him now. While moving towards his SUV, the youth slapped a man, Mukesh (40), who was also standing at the stall and having tea,  
 
 
 The youth took out a handgun from his car and fired four bullets, two of them hit the ground while two went up in the air. Of the four, one hit Mukesh’s foot, police said.
 
 
 Youth fled in the SUV after the incident while the injured man was rushed to the hospital. Police too got the information by then. Police said a case has been registered under sections of   in the incident.
 
 
 The victim told the police that the accused was wearing yellow shirt and blue jeans. Injured man Mukesh is a bus conductor and sleeps in the bus parked close to the spot. He sustained injuries in his right ankle and was out of danger. Police said they have got the CCTV footage of the incident and have scanned a number of similar SUVs after the crime and the accused would be nabbed soon.
 
