GUNTUR: Condemning the heinous Dachepalli rape incident, chief minister   backed the demand for hanging the rapists in public view. He visited the   (GGH) where the 9-year-old survivor is being treated on Saturday.

 
 Speaking to reporters at GGH, Naidu said there is no place for rapists in  . “Anyone who dares to touch a girl or woman next time should keep in mind that the day will be the last one in their life” he said. He added that more stringent laws should be made to punish such people, which in order would create fear in minds of others. He also appealed lawyers not to argue on behalf of the rapists.
 
 The chief minister calls for a debate to tackle such type of incidents. The government is going to organise “Aadabiddaki Rakshna Kosam” rallies at all mandal headquarters across the state. He invited all political parties, social workers, NGOs and all sections of society to participate in the rally in solidarity to the victims and also to spread awareness on sexual exploitation of women and girls.
 
 Naidu also appealed parents to break the silence and asked them to discuss about the ways to deal with the situations of sexual exploitation. The chief minister expressed concerns over the new trend that is emerging with free availability of porn over the internet. He said with the availability of internet on mobile phones, it is difficult to know what the men are watching over their phones and how it is affecting their psyche. He said a comprehensive review has to be done over the free availability of porn over internet.
 
 Naidu also lashed out at   leaders accusing them of doing dirty politics over the issue. They tried to instigate people with their statements by bringing politics into the issue.
 
 He also announced that he is going to take personal responsibility of the survivor’s education. “I will personally bear the cost of her education. I have already told the collector to enroll the girl in a good school in Guntur and I will pay for her education whatever she wanted to study in future” he said. Naidu also announced another Rs 5 lakhs fixed deposit along with Rs 5 lakhs already announced by the government. He also announced 2 acres of land to the family, a house and outsourcing job to the survivor’s father.
 
