PATNA: Amid immaculate security bandobast, 53% of the voters exercised their franchise during the byelection for the   assembly seat on Monday. 

 
 The polling, which ended at 6pm, was rather slow as 52% of the voters had cast their votes till 5pm. EVMs with   devices were used at all the booths in the constituency. The counting of votes polled would take place on May 31.
 
 “The polling passed off peacefully. No untoward incidents were reported from any part of the constituency. Nor has repolling been recommended or ordered at any of the polling booths,” deputy chief electoral officer (CEO) Baijunath Kumar Singh said.
 
 The constituency has 2.70 lakh voters, including 1.44 men and 1.26 lakh women. The voters exercised their franchise at 331 polling booths on 155 polling stations or points. 
 
 The byelection was held after sitting JD(U) MLA Sarfaraz Alam, elder son of late  , joined the RJD and contested on its ticket for the   Lok Sabha seat in the byelection held in March this year. Taslimuddin, who had won the Araria seat in 2014, died in August last year.
 
 As many as nine candidates are in the fray in the high-stakes Jokihat, traditionally considered as the pocket borough of late Taslimuddin and his elder son Sarfaraz Alam, who together have represented the constituency in the state assembly nine times since 1969. Sarfaraz, winning the seat on the JD(U) ticket, had won the Jokihat seat in the last four elections — February 2005, October 2005, 2010 and 2015. 
 
 During the bypoll this time, the main contenders in the fray are Taslimuddin’s younger son Shahnawaz Alam of the RJD led by Lalu Prasad, Murshid Alam of the JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar, Gousul Azam of the Jan Adhikar Party Loktantrik led by suspended RJD MP from Madhepura Pappu Yadav. Besides, six independent candidates are also in the electoral battle.
 
 Deputy CEO Singh said 25 companies of armed police forces were deployed to look after the security affairs on the polling day. Ten companies of central paramilitary forces were deployed to keep vigil at all the polling booths.
 
 Besides, since the notification of the bypoll made by the Election Commission, the district administration created 28 checkposts and stationary substations (SSTs), while flying squads seized Rs6.96 lakh worth of unaccounted money since then. The police also seized nine firearms and 1,904.6 litres of liquor during patrolling and vigil during the period.
 
 
