CHANDIGARH: The UT education department inquiry report about the disappearance of Class-X board examination answer sheets from the Sector-19 Government Model Senior   blames its principal and the teachers who didn’t follow evaluation procedures.

 Filed on Thursday, the inquiry committee report points out lapses in the procedures for handling answer sheets, though it names no particular official. On Friday, the education department will forward this report to   and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in Delhi.
 
 The UT education secretary, school education director, and investigators didn’t share much details of the report with the media but they confirmed that the report had been submitted and that it pointed out many lapses on part of the school. Education secretary B L Sharma said: “We will send the report to the CBSE chairperson and the director general of Chandigarh Police. I had only a cursory look at it. Broadly, it points out lapses in the observance of prescribed and standard operating procedures by the officials who had been assigned various duties.”
 
 Sources in the education department said the inquiry report hints has reference to mischief by some officials concerned in the school and if the answer sheets were not recovered, a criminal case might be filed against these people. The sources also said that the CBSE had taken a serious note of the lapse and board chairperson Anita Karwal was in touch with senior officials of the department for regular monitoring of the investigation.
 
 “If some teachers or officials misplaced the answer sheets to settle scores with colleagues, we invite them to come forward and return the answer sheets or be ready to face criminal charges for destroying these documents,” a senior official in the education department said on the condition of anonymity. On Wednesday, police had registered a first-information report (FIR) about the theft of 33 answer sheets of the mathematics paper, even though the accused remain unidentified. On May 11, police had registered a DDR (daily diary report) in the case.
 
 The FIR under Section 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was registered on the complaint of school principal Sanjay Walia. The answer sheets went missing on May 10. The CBSE officials checked the bundles of other answer sheets to see if the papers got mixed up by accident, but they failed to find the missing sheets. They searched the entire school before they rechecked the other sealed bundles.
 
 
