BENGALURU: The defunct  's ( ) overarching presence in the   is resulting in a tussle within the state BJP, with members of both factions vying for tickets in the same constituencies. 

  This has become a source of worry for the state leadership, which is trying to resolve hurdles to reach its 150-seat mission. KJP was founded by former CM and state BJP president B S Yeddyurappa in 2012, after he was asked to step down from the chief ministerial post, following his indictment in land denotification cases. He merged the KJP with the BJP in 2014. 
 
 According to BJP sources, there is a stiff fight for tickets between insiders (the BJP) and outsiders (who joined BJP from KJP) in at least 10-15 constituencies, and the battle is fierce in Shivamogga district where KJP fared better than the BJP in the 2013 elections.
 
 While Yeddyurappa is keen on fielding camp follower S Rudregowda from Shivamogga constituency, opposition leader in the legislative council K S Eswharappa is using his 'connections' in the party to outsmart Yeddyurappa. Rudregowda lost the seat to Prasanna Kumar of the   by a narrow margin in the 2013 elections, pushing Eshwrappa to third position. This has come in handy for Yeddyurappa to push Rudregowda's name.
 
 The fight has already reached the streets and the 'Rayanna Brigade' which Eshwarappa floated to checkmate Yeddyurappa's growing clout in the BJP has already made its opposition to Rudregowda's candidature public. "Under no circumstances will we accept any candidate other than Eshwarappa in Shivamogga," a volunteer of the brigade said.
 
 In Sagar constituency, BJP members Belur Gopalakrishna and Haratal Halappa are in the race. Though Yeddyurappa has already announced that Halappa will be the party candidate in Sagar, it is unlikely that Gopalakrishna will take it lying down. Halappa, who had contested from Sorab on a KJP ticket, is being moved to Sagar to accommodate Kumar Bangarappa, who joined the BJP from the Congress recently.
 
 In Bailhongal constituency in Belagavi district, the party is likely to prefer sitting MLA Vishwanath Patil over former MLA Jagadish Metgud. Patil had contested on a KJP ticket. Though Yeddyurappa and other senior leaders have been holding talks with Metgud to persuade him to work for Patil, he is likely to contest as an Independent.
 
 In Tumukuru City constituency, the tussle has reached a different level with BJP's former MLA Sogadu Shivanna openly taking on Yeddyurappa on many occasions. If Yeddyurappa manages to get a ticket for his follower Jyothi Ganesh, Shivanna is expected to be an Independent candidate. 
 
 This apart, in a few constituencies in Haveri and Dharwad where KJP stood second in the 2013 elections, the fight for a ticket is intense and it remains to be seen how the party addresses the issue.
 
 "Party leaders are in talks wherever there is stiff competition for tickets. As far as Eshwarappa's case is concerned, the party high command will decide," said a senior BJP leader, who refused to be named.
 
 The KJP had cut into the votes of the BJP in at least 29 constituencies in the 2013 polls. It finished second in 36 constituencies, third in 35 constituencies and secured 30.7 lakh votes (9.8% of the total votes polled). 
 
 
