NEW DELHI: The   ( ) has started the   of   in  . Officials said that the work will be done a phased manner as it will take five months to complete it.

 
 The department started the work six months back. While around 40% of the work has been completed, officials said the work to replace expansion joints was pending. PWD had been seeking permission from Delhi traffic police to carry out the remaining work. “It is a two-kilometre-long flyover. We have carried out the repair work on half-a-kilometre stretch near Dilshad Garden. We are yet to get permission to carry out the work on the remaining portion,” said a PWD official.
 
 From February 1, PWD started work on one carriageway towards Dilshad Garden. “It will take five months to complete the work as we have to replace 150 expansion joints and carry out basic repair. The work on the carriageway towards Dilshad Garden will be completed in two-and-a-half months,” said the official.
 
 Traffic officials said that the flyover will be partially closed in two phases, in the first phase one carriageway — Shahdara to Dilshad Garden — will be closed and traffic will allowed on the other one and in the second phase the other half portion of the flyover will be closed. Expecting snarls due to the repair work, officials said motorists should take diversions through Anand Vihar and NH-24 to avoid being stuck in a traffic jam.
 
 Meanwhile, PWD is facing problem in completing the repair work at   flyover. Though the work to repair the second carriageway was to start from February 1, officials said they were yet to get permission from traffic police. Sources said traffic police is not giving the permission, as construction work of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s Pink Line (Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar) is not yet complete.
 
 The department had taken up the rehabilitation work of the Lajpat Nagar flyover after wide gaps between girders were reported. It will also start repair work on Raja Garden flyover.
 
 While it is carrying out the repair works, PWD is likely to rope in Central Road Research Institute (CSIR-CRRI) to inspect the condition of flyovers in the city.
 
 PWD said the main problem was on the carriageway towards AIIMS. The expansion joints had got damaged and needed immediate repair. “The carriageway towards Ashram doesn’t have major problems. But we would like to complete the repairs at the earliest,” said PWD official.
 
 Police officers say that they had requested the PWD to halt the work for a few days due to security reasons. However, the civic body could resume the work after 26th January.
 
 
