: The protesting guardians of the south Kolkata school, where a dance teacher had allegedly been molesting a Class-II student on the campus for last three months, have urged all parents to send their daughters to the school from Monday to restore normalcy, signifying that both — the parents and the school authorities — have made the safety of kids a priority over mudslinging. They’ve unitedly decided to ignore rumours and give the school some time to take the precautionary measures
 

 “They are human beings and need time to implement the measures suggested by us. The assurance has come from the top authority in the school and we trust them,” said a representative of the parents after meeting the school principal and other senior members on Saturday afternoon.
 
 On Saturday, a group of parents reached the school around 10am and contrary to expectations of another round of protests, they agreed to hold talks with the school. The principal reciprocated by assuring them to make all amends to prevent a rerun of Friday’s incident.
 
 “Co-operate with us. We have a history of a long-standing relationship based on trust. There may have been some issues but we are doing our best to make the changes. Some of the parents today were students of this school,” said the principal.
 
 The representatives of the guardians urged other parents to send their children to school. “Everything is normal. Please send your child to school on Monday. Do not believe rumours that school has been shut down. The parents have to take
 
 the initiative to restore normalcy,” said another guardian.
 
 Many educationists termed it as a positive development and felt it will not only help the school and the parents to work in tandem to ensure kids’ safety but also save the students from terrorising images of protesting parents and the police on a warpath.
 
 “The parents and the school have displayed exemplary maturity in dealing with the situation on Saturday,” said Marcus Fernandes, a former vice-principal. 
 
 “The statement by the principal suggests that the school authorities have accepted that there were some loopholes and they are willing to make amends. The response from the parents is an indicator of the fact that instead of indulging in a slugfest they want to co-operate with the school for the sake of their children. This should be an example for all parents and schools.”
 
 Many parents also appeared worried by what was happening outside the school. Several organisations reached the school and tried to become a stakeholder in the protest. Many of them distributed pamphlets and put posters on the walls. “We request all not to stick posters on the school’s wall. 
 
 It Many organisations have been coming here to protest. They are within their rights to do so but please do not dirty the walls. Our daughters study here and we want a good atmosphere for them,” said a parent. Another parent requested not to politicise the matter. Since Friday evening, several political parties and organisations have been agitating in front of the school and   police station.
 
 
