PATIALA:   Pollution Control Broad ( ) challenged the World Health Organisation ( ) report gauging ambient air quality of Punjab, in which Patiala has been placed at the 13th spot among the most polluted cities in the world.

 Calling the report irrational, unscientific and bereft of reasonable facts, PPCB chairperson K S Pannu said it was based on PM 2.5 readings collected between 2010 and 2016. Till January this year, there was no high-end equipment in place to record PM 2.5 levels in Patiala, he asserted.
 
 On January 24, he said, a continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) became operational in Patiala, after which PM 2.5 recordings were collected for the first time. He said average readings of this station were found to be 48.4 micrograms per cubic metre, which is nowhere near 101 micrograms per cubic metre as quoted by WHO for Patiala in its report.
 
 Sources said under the national air quality monitoring programme (NAQMP) initiated by the Union government in the late 1980s, air monitoring stations were set up at various places in Punjab. At present, there are 24 such stations in urban and rural areas.
 
 However, the equipment used at these stations can record only PM 10 levels along with the presence of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxides. The first ever PM 2.5 levels were recorded in the state after two CAAQMS became operational at Mandi Gobindgarh and Amritsar in April 2016. In July the same year, another such station was set up in Ludhiana. This year, two more stations were opened in Patiala and Jalandhar.
 
 As per the annual average recorded in Amritsar, PM2.5 levels were found to be 52.75 micrograms per cubic metre for the initial nine months of 2016. At Mandi Gobindgarh, a major industrial cluster, levels of PM 2.5 were recorded at 63.32 micrograms per cubic metre and at Ludhiana it was 45.83 micrograms per cubic metre.
 
 In 2017, the recordings were 63.08 micrograms per cubic metre, 77.4 micrograms per cubic metre and 73.34 micrograms per cubic metre in Amritsar, Mandi Gobindgarh and Ludhiana, respectively. During the first four months of this year, PM 2.5 level at Amritsar was 53.2 micrograms per cubic metre, at Mandi Gobindgarh it was 63.03 micrograms per cubic metre and at Ludhiana, it was 55.4 micrograms per cubic metre. In Patiala, average readings since January till April have been 48.5 micrograms per cubic metre and in Jalandhar, it is 61.03 micrograms per cubic metre.
 
 As per the sub-index calculated on the measurement of PM 2.5 levels, a reading up to 30 micrograms/m3 is considered good, while, 31 to 60 is considered satisfactory, 61 to 90 is said to be moderately polluted and beyond that it is considered to be poor up to a reading 120 micrograms/m3. It becomes very poor up to 250 micrograms/m3 and in case the reading goes beyond, it is said to be severe.
 
 In response to an e-mail sent to the WHO, a spokesperson from the organization headquarters said the database compiles ground measurements of annual mean concentrations of particulate matter and aims at representing an average for the city or town as a whole, rather than individual stations. It said the report is based on years of measurements, mostly from 2010 to 2016, but in a few cases, the latest available data is older.
 
 It admitted that the primary sources of data include official reporting from countries to WHO, official national and sub-national reports, national and subnational websites containing measurements of PM10 or PM2.5 and ground measurements compiled in the framework of the Global Burden of Disease project.
 
 The statement further read that for completeness, in cities with only PM10 reported, the PM2.5 concentration was calculated using national conversion factors (PM2.5/PM10 ratio) either provided by the country or estimated for the country. The same applied for PM 2.5. Country-specific conversion factors were estimated as the mean ratio of PM 2.5 to PM10 of stations for the same year.
 
 However, the PPCB said as PM 2.5 data for Patiala was not recorded till January this year by the board or any other government agency, the WHO’s report appeared to be far-fetched and not based on scientific facts. 
 
 Pannu said, “I am surprised as it appears that UN agency has interpreted the PM10 data as PM 2.5 without any scientific figures recorded in the state. The report has astonished every one, including the scientists’ community. The WHO has never consulted nor shared any information in this regard with the state pollution control board.”
 
 He said the WHO report has created panic amongst residents of Punjab in general and Patiala in particular and the board has challenged the report. He said they would also take up the matter with WHO soon. He said while the industrial cities of Ludhiana and Mandi Gobindgarh had higher levels of PM 2.5 levels as compared to Patiala (but still in the safe range), still, the UN agency report says Patiala is among the most polluted cities of the world.
 
 
 
 
 In May 2016, PPCB had been put in a similar situation by WHO when it released a report in which four cities of Punjab were ranked among the top 22 polluted places on the basis of ambient air quality. At the time, it ranked Ludhiana at 12th, Khanna 16th, Amritsar 21st and Mandi Gobindgarh at 22nd places respectively based on the data of PM 2.5 in the air, even as the CAAQMS at Mandi Gobindgarh and Amritsar had just become operational a month back. Till then the PPCB, government or semi-government organisation and any of the universities of Punjab had not recorded PM 2.5 levels anywhere in the state.
 
 The PPCB raised objections with the UN agency on health after senior officials of the board held a meeting with WHO officials in New Delhi, during which they failed to give a satisfactory reply regarding the data source on the basis of which the report was prepared.
 
 
 
