PATIALA: Punjab MP Harinder Singh Khalsa’s presence at the filing of   nomination papers by Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri in Lucknow on Wednesday has ruffled a few feathers in the political circles of Punjab. Puri joined the BJP four years after his retirement from IFS. UP chief minister   too was present on the occasion.

 The suspended AAP member of Parliament from   is a friend of Puri from the time both of them were Indian   diplomats. Khalsa had resigned from IFS in protest against Operation Blue Star.
 
 Khalsa’s presence at the BJP event led to speculation that the suspended Aam Aadmi Party MP might make a move to join the BJP ahead of the 2019   elections. 
 
 The Fatehgarh Sahib MP, who had been elected to the Lok Sabha in the 2014 on an AAP ticket, had a fallout with AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal. He suspended in August 2015 along with party's other MP, Dr Dharamvira Gandhi from Patiala. Gandhi had been suspended for supporting expelled AAP leader Yogendra Yadav and Khalsa had been suspended for alleged anti-party activities. He was accused of having joined hands with the ruling BJP-SAD alliance, which was in power in the state at that time.
 
 The two MPs initially made some attempts to restore cordial relations with Kejriwal, but after their efforts failed, both these MPs distanced themselves from the AAP. They continue to work independently in their respective constituencies without towing the party line.
 
 Political observers said as the two MPs had failed to mend fences with the AAP chief, they were now left with no option but to make a political move and shift loyalties from the AAP which dismally failed in last year’s Punjab assembly elections. The party also failed miserably in the recently-concluded civic body polls.
 
 Gandhi has publicly announced he would not be contesting the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, but Khalsa has not made any such statement, indicating he might be making a move to join another political party and contest the Lok Sabha elections.
 
 
 
 
