Vadodara: The Sayajigunj police on Thursday recorded statements of the employees of Waghodiya-based Parul University in connection with the mysterious death of Harish Rana, the accountant who was found dead in his car outside Sayajibaug late on Tuesday night.

 Police have also tried to track Rana’s movements on the basis of his mobile phone’s location between the university and Sayajibaug. Cops are expecting to receive the postmortem report by Friday which will throw light on the exact reason behind his death.
 
 On the other hand, CCTV camera footages of Parul University as well those outside Sayajibaug were also recovered. A police official said that according to bio-metric attendance system of the university, Rana reached there at 9.05 am and left at around 10.31 am. In the cameras outside Sayajibaug, Rana is seen coming from the side of Narhari Hospital and parking his car outside gate 2 of the park at 11.41 am.
 
 The police had found Rana’s bag from his car. On checking it, they found a notepad in which he had written an eight-page letter making several serious allegations about irregularities in the university and its administration. The police also found three pen drives from the bag which Rana had mentioned in the letter. He had mentioned in the letter that the details of the irregularities of the university were in the pen drive.
 
 No movements were seen around the car after that, the police said. “Neither Rana is seen coming out of the car nor anyone is seen entering the car until 11.55 pm when Rana’s son reached there,” the police official said. 
 
 In his letter, Rana had alleged that the university admits more students than the permitted limit and have recruited hoax staff to increase its fees. It was also alleged that scholarship documents are forged so that the regulation committee of government increases the university’s fees among others. However, Dr Devanshu Patel, president of the university, refuted the allegations and said that Rana wrote the letter since complaints against him had come up lately.
 
 
