NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Tuesday accepted a joint application filed by chief minister Arvind   and Union finance minister Arun Jaitley seeking to end two civil   cases in light of the apology tendered by the CM and four AAP functionaries. Justice Rajiv Sahai Endlaw ended proceedings observing that they have settled the issues among them.

 The application was moved in   after Kejriwal apologised to Jaitley and his family members for accusing the Union minister of corruption during his 13-year stint at Delhi and District Cricket Association (DDCA).
 
 Meanwhile, a   also accepted the joint plea filed by Jaitley and Kejriwal and acquitted the CM in the DDCA criminal defamation case. Similar relief was given to other AAP functionaries — Sanjay Singh, Raghav Chadha, Ashutosh and Deepak Bajpai — who had filed joint applications in the court on Monday.
 
 Jaitley’s counsel told HC that the sixth accused, Kumar Vishwas, “had not tendered any apology till now and he will pursue the matter against him.” HC then asked Jaitley’s counsel to inform Vishwas, who was neither present nor represented by any counsel, about the latest order and said if nobody appeared for him on April 26 (the next date of hearing) the court will proceed against him.
 
 In his letter, Kejriwal said his allegations were based on information and papers furnished by certain individuals who represented to have first-hand insight into DDCA’s affairs but had “recently discovered that the information and the imputations contained therein were unfounded and unwarranted and I was clearly misinformed into making these allegations.”
 
 Earlier in the day, another single judge bench of HC closed the second defamation suit filed by Jaitley against Kejriwal over alleged use of objectionable word by the CM’s former lawyer Ram Jethmalani in open court during the proceedings of the original defamation suit. Kejriwal added that he did not approve of Jethmalani’s “disparaging and malicious” remarks against Jaitley.
 
 Additional chief metropolitan Magistrate Samar Vishal also allowed the pleas seeking to close the criminal defamation case. The court perused the joint application filed by Kejriwal, through his lawyer Mohd Irshad, apologising to Jaitley for making the defamatory remarks. Jaitley, through senior lawyer Sidharth Luthra and advocates Manik Dogra and Manoj Taneja, accepted the apology. However, proceedings will continue against Vishwas as he didn’t apologise.
 
 The AAP functionaries had alleged financial irregularities in DDCA when Jaitley was its president from 2000 to 2013, prompting the Union minister to lodge a defamation case against them while denying all allegations. Jaitley had filed the first defamation suit in December 2015.
 
 Kejriwal has already apologised to Akali Dal functionary Bikram Singh Majithia for alleging his involvement in the drug trade. Days later, he apologised to BJP functionary and Union minister Nitin Gadkari, Congress functionary Kapil Sibal and his son Amit over separate issues.
 
 
