AHMEDABAD: Cheating can also be weighed. This was proved when   Secondary and Higher Secondary Education   (GSHEB) officials seized over 200kg of materials to intended for use in cheating from an examination centre in Vanthali town of   during the class XII science exam in the second week of March. Board officials had to requisition 20 sacks to pack the chits, which mostly comprised of micro-sized photocopies of answers.

 This revelation was made at a hearing the examination committee of the Gujarat board on Wednesday, which too took a serious view of the case and decided to summon the exam coordinator of the centre and the invigilators.
 
 N C Shah, vice-chairman of the board, said, “We summoned 15 students who were allegedly cheating and we will also summon all the supervisors and the centre coordinator on May 31.”
 
 B S  , district education officer (DEO) of Junagadh, confirmed the incident and said, “We received many complaints about irregularities in the exam held at   — the exam centre concerned. When we reached there on March 14 as the class X exams were on, we found roads covered with small white papers — which were nothing but the copy materials dropped by the students.”
 
 Kella added, “Taking note of this, we had strictly warned the class 12 science students to get rid of chits or any other copy materials before exam. We gave at least three warnings before the Chemistry exam and with every warning, some students submitted their copy materials to board officials. During the exam, we started frisking students and then also, we found around 15 students with copy chits.”
 
 Swaminarayan Gurukul in Vanthali was made a centre for board examination in 2008 but it was de-listed the very next year. This year again, the institute has been made a board exam centre without any recommendation from the DEO, said sources. If the CCTV footage of this centre is checked, then more irregularities will surface, said education department officials.
 
 “We had filed copy cases against 15 students and started collecting the copy materials which were either submitted by the students or found by the board officials. We ended up collecting 200 kg of chits,” added Kella. 
 
 
