NEW DELHI: The   of   in the   has   considerably this year, though the   of   sighted rose from last year’s 23 to 32 this time around, the latest findings of the   (AWC) 2018 have shown.

 The number of water and water dependant birds were recorded at 594 this year – a sharp drop from the 2,640 birds last year, which experts attribute to human interference on the floodplains, climate change and pollution.
 
 “Due to global climate change, shrinking wetland habitats and changing trends of long distant winter migratory birds, there has been a reduction in the numbers at Yamuna. Last year, the majority of these numbers consisted of black-headed gulls, which have now gone to Okhla this year,” AWC state coordinator TK Roy told TOI.
 
 The census, which is simultaneously being conducted across 27 countries, was conducted at Yamuna floodplains between Wazirabad barrage and the Nizamuddin bridge on January 13, by volunteers from several universities, Greenpeace, experienced birders from Delhi and the AWC Delhi state coordinator and ecologist, TK Roy.
 
 Last year’s census recorded 1,996 black-headed gulls at the Yamuna floodplains, however these numbers fell to just 99 this year. Among the other birds which fell in numbers was the common sandpiper, great cormorant, whiskered tern and ruff.
 
 Roy said that out of the 32 species, only the river lapwing is classified as threatened according to the IUCN red list, which rose from 10 last year to 12 this time. The count identified 13 species from the 32 as resident water birds, with the remaining 19 as winter migratory birds. The AWC in 2016 had recorded 24 species with 598 birds in total.
 
 The AWC began on January 6 in Delhi and will continue till January 21. Among the areas covered include the Okhla Bird Sanctuary, Najafgarh drain, Yamuna floodplains, Delhi zoo, Sanjay Lake and Surajpur wetlands. Findings at Okhla last week had shown that the number of birds has almost doubled this year, increasing from 6,183 birds in 2017 to 11,622 birds this year. Roy said the final phase of the census is currently underway at Delhi zoo, with the results likely to be out in the next few days.
 
 
