CHANDIGARH: Body language gives away a lot. When the Chandigarh MC elected BJP councillor Davesh   as the city’s mayor on Tuesday, the actions of two senior leaders of the saffron party, Sanjay   and  , spoke louder than words.

 There was exhilaration in victory for one, while dejection for the other. In the run-up to the mayoral election, groups led by the two leaders were locked in an ugly tug-of-war, which saw Kher prevailing over Tandon. Kher-backed candidate, Moudgil, was picked by the BJP, while former mayor  , who is from Tandon’s group, was forced to withdraw her nomination. The party’s decision to go with Kher’s choice is seen as jolt for Tandon, who harbours a dream of contesting the   elections from Chandigarh in 2019.
 
 During the election proceedings, Kher was her usual self — friendly, engaging, and confident. Tandon, on the other hand, who was accompanied by several BJP leaders in the visitors’ gallery, seemed out of place and lost in his thoughts. Throughout the election proceeding, Kher appeared relaxed, while Tandon seemed grim.
 
 Even during celebrations at the mayor’s office, Kher was forthcoming in exchanging pleasantries, while Tandon joined celebrations for a brief moment, and that too after Kher left. The supporters of Kher raised slogans in her favour and they became more vocal when Tandon entered the mayor’s office.
 
 Talking to TOI, Tandon, who is at the helm of the local unit of BJP for 10 years, said he had been involved selection of candidates in the past, but was not kept in the loop while picking candidates for all three posts this time. “The selection was done on the feedback given by the MP, without keeping me in the loop,” said Tandon. He said this irked 14 councillors of the 20 BJP councillors.
 
 He, however, expressed happiness over the party winning all three posts. While citing example of 1999 when the party lost the mayoral elections due to groupism despite having majority, Tandon said his efforts ensured there was no repeat of 1999. “It was due to my relentless efforts that both groups came together and won the elections,” said Tandon, adding that he would take up the issue with the high command.
 
 Kher, on the other hand, termed the tussle as “unfortunate”. “Things should not have come out in open,” said Kher. “We are committed to the city’s development and will work as a team.”
 
 For the BJP, for now, all’s well that ends well.
 
 
