CHANDIGARH: Senior citizens and residents of 11 sectors are left with no option but to visit the Government Multi Specialty Hospital (GMSH), Sector 16, or   (GMCH), Sector 32, for routine health check-up. Residents complained that the sectors 50 to 61 have no healthcare facilities in the area and the authorities are seems to be not at all bothered to provide it to the public even after raising the issue a number of times.

 President of citizen welfare society (CWS) S S   said they have submitted the memorandum to the UT adviser that there are no dispensaries, let alone a polyclinic or a hospital in the entire belt. “In absence of basic healthcare facilities, people have to depend on the dispensaries, polyclinics and hospitals in other parts of the city. PGI, GMSH, Sector 16, are already overburdened and their functioning is out of gear,” he said.
 
 Vice president of   said the requirement of healthcare facility is getting acute over the period. It is therefore requested that a policy for the provision of healthcare and facilities be drawn on priority. Till such a policy is formulated and made operational, director health services, Chandigarh, should put in service mobile vans to dispense medical assistance to the residents, especially the senior citizens and children,” he demanded
 
 He said the mobile vans must be equipped with laboratory facilities for collection of samples and deliver reports on their next visit to the area. Stationing of vans at fixed locations should be made on V-5 circle roads for the convenience of senior citizens, women and children.
 
 Senior citizens raised a question that why the authorities cannot make a temporary arrangement of a mobile van in their area till some decision is taken on the setting up of a   in the area? It has become a serious problem for them to travel to other parts of the city for health service which is a basic requirement and right of the public.
 
 Balvinder Singh, a resident and member of the association, said they were hoping that after removal of colony number 5, the authorities will think of constructing a polyclinic or a hospital in the area. However till date, they have not received any such communication from them. 
 
 In the dock 
 
 I will raise the issue with the concerned authorities
 
 Heera Negi, MC councillor, Sector 51
 
 
