MOHALI: The Universe Boss is back and in a big way.   showcased vintage form, smacking the ball all over the park, as   defeated   by four runs at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium, here on Sunday.

 
 CSK captain MS Dhoni (79* off 44b; 6x4, 5x6), though, nearly pulled off the chase for his team — giving the jampacked stadium a thriller in the end.
 
 KL Rahul (37 off 22b; 7x4) was the aggressor at the start of Kings XI innings. He continued from where he left against Delhi Daredevils in KXIP’s opening match here. The Karnataka opener welcomed   with two delightful drives on the up for fours in the opening over.
 
 Gayle (63 off 33b; 7x4, 4x6) started on a gentle note — caressing a cover drive for four off the first ball he faced in this year’s   — before assuming his destructive avatar.
 
 Harbhajan’s second over opened the floodgates for Kings; Gayle and Rahul took 19 runs from it. The West Indian genius belted a four and a six, while Rahul stroked two cover drives to the boundary ropes.
 
 Gayle chose Chahar for some special treatment in the final over of Powerplay. He hammered 22 runs, including two boundaries and two humongous sixes, as Kings XI put up 75 without loss in the first six overs.
 
 Imran Tahir was not spared either. Gayle thrashed the South African legspinner for 17 runs in his first over; and brought up his half-century off just 22 balls.
 
 The opening-wicket partnership yielded 96 runs in only eight overs. Against the run of play, Rahul perished. He punched a drive off Harbhajan straight to cover, where Dwayne Bravo pouched an easy catch.
 
 But, Mayank Agarwal (30 off 19b; 1x4, 2x6) made sure the momentum was not lost. He smacked Harbhajan for a four and a six to get going.
 
 A soft dismissal cut short Gayle's superb knock. Kept quiet for a few overs, Gayle gave a simple catch to short fine leg, while trying to pull a Shane Watson bumper.
 
 After Gayle's wicket, CSK made a resounding comeback in the last eight overs of the innings. It all started with Tahir getting back-to-back wickets in the 15th over. He had Agarwal caught at long-on, and then trapped Aaron Finch lbw for a duck with a quick slider.
 
 Yuvraj Singh (20 off 13b; 2x4, 1x6) and Karun Nair (29 off 17b; 2x4, 1x6) played handy knocks towards the end as Kings XI put 197/7 on the board, but they fell 20-30 runs short of what they could have achieved after the blazing start.
 
 A required run-rate of nearly 10 runs-per-over was always going to be difficult for CSK; and, the loss of two wickets in the Powerplay dented their hopes in a big way.
 
 Watson and Murali Vijay were foxed by slower balls from Mohit Sharma and Andrew Tye. While Watson failed to read Sharma's back-of-the-hand slower one, Vijay was outdone by a knuckle ball from Tye.
 
 The spinners then got into the act. Mujeeb Zadran and Ravichandran Ashwin applied the choke and also picked wickets. Ashwin bowled his newly-acquired weapon -- the leg-breaks -- against CSK's right-handers.
 
 
