One of the first things on everyone’s mind after they finish watching  's ‘
 ’ is,   is doing a really good job at picking roles, be it ACP Jaya in ‘Kshanam’ or now,   in this film.

  And it’s not just the audience, the film fraternity too isn’t blind to the impact Ragammatta has on the film and the élan with which Anasuya played her character. While numerous fans have posted on their social media, praising the ‘Jabardasth’ anchor for her performance, those from TFI like Ram Pothineni and Vennela Kishore are proud of her performance too. Even stylist Gauri Naidu who has on many an occasion styled the actress for her shows and more can’t stop raving about how good the actress was in the film. 
 
  Praising the ‘Rangasthalam’ team Ram Pothineni wrote, “#Rangasthalam - @aryasukku ‘s Brilliance - @ThisIsDSP ‘s Passion - @RathnaveluDop ‘s Experience -@AadhiOfficial & @anusuyakhasba ‘s Perfect portrayal -@Samanthaprabhu2 ‘s Magic - Charans Show! Congratulations to @MythriOfficial & team! #love” (sic) Vennela Kishore too seemed to be in awe of her when he wrote, “And our rangammattha..one more role to be proud of after KSHANAM..keep on rocking @anusuyakhasba. neeku thirugu ledu..thodu ku perugu ledu (edo prasa kosam)” (sic)
 
  While the characterisations of everyone in the film and especially Ram Charan’s portrayal of Chitti Babu, Samantha’s of Rama Lakshmi, Jagapathi Babu’s of President garu and Aadhi Pinisetty’s of Kumar Babu stole hearts, Rangammatta is a whole different ball game, representing the women who’re beautiful, feisty and empowered, not blind to the way the world works. 
 
  In the film, Anasuya’s character is a wise woman of sorts, offering Chitti Babu a shoulder for support and sage words in time of need. She also plays a catalyst of sorts, bursting the bright bubble he lives in and forcing him to see reality for what it is. To just say that Anasuya looked beautiful in her role of Rangammatta – a woman who’s the village beauty, the one everyone is curious and invasive enough to talk about – would be an injustice to both the actress and her role. 
 
  Featuring music by Devi Sri Prasad with lyrics penned by Chandrabose and cinematography by Rathnavelu the film has received rave reviews from critics and audience alike after its release on March 30. 
 
