FEROZEPUR: A video showing Congress leader   allegedly slapping an inspector of food and civil supply department at Makhu town in Zira sub-division in the district went viral on social media on Thursday. Zira, father of   from Zira constituency Kulbir Singh, has, however, denied having assaulted the official.

 Zira was caught on camera rebuking and allegedly slapping  , an inspector in the food and civil supply department. The incident happened after he caught him and another inspector of the department Sahiljit Singh allegedly selling   of atta dal scheme. The wheat was meant to be distributed among the beneficiaries holding blue cards at a shop in Makhu town in the district on Wednesday. Police officials present at the spot took away the civil supplies department officials with them.
 
 On getting inputs that some officials of food and civil supply department were coming to sell subsidized wheat at a shop in Makhu town, Zira, along with some party workers, reached the spot and allegedly caught Saxena and Sahiljit with 35 quintal of subsidized wheat. The two inspectors were allegedly delivering the foodgrain to a food factory near Rasulpur railway crossing.
 
 Police claimed that these officials released 35 quintal subsidized wheat from the godown after fabricating a gate pass on the name of Gurprit Singh, a depot holder in Makhu. Later, the officials were taken to a shop and the matter was reported to the police.
 
 A team of police arrived and confiscated the wheat, meanwhile Zira reportedly slapped Saxena repeatedly in the presence of the cops while pushing Sahiljit out from the shop. Later, a case under sections 409/420/120-B of the IPC and the 7 EC Act has been registered against the two food inspectors at the Makhu police station.
 
 While criticizing Zira, SAD leader from   said the episode had established that Congress leaders don’t respect the police. “Why are the police silent? Why they have not lodged any police case against the Zira senior for assaulting government officials,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Zira DSP Jaspal Singh said he was not aware of any such incidence. “If it has happened and a complainant is lodged with the police complaint against him, Zira would be dealt with as per the law,” he added
 
 
