DHARAMSALA: In the six games that he’s played for India so far,   hasn’t exactly produced the sort of innings which seals your spot for, say, the next 15 ODIs.

 
 With the likes of   and   around, and   aiming for an ODI comeback, it remains to be seen how long Iyer is able to stave off the stiff competition in the middle-order, the only place in the Indian team which has a ‘vacancies available’ board hanging on it.
 
 Having performed consistently in domestic cricket since his debut in 2014-15 season for Mumbai - he boasts of an average of 53.90 after 46 First-Class games - the 23-year-old feels he deserves to be persisted with for a while. “I should get a long run. I have performed that much, so I obviously deserve it,” says Iyer, while revealing that no one from the team management has spoken to him on the issue.
 
 The youngster feels that he hasn’t got enough chances to prove his worth at the top level till now. “I need to maintain my consistency to be in the Indian team. I haven’t got that many chances to bat, though. I hardly got two chances (to bat) in South Africa, and that too, after 40 overs,” he pointed out.
 
 It’s clear that the Mumbaikar is taking his time to find his feet in international cricket. The batsman feels that to be successful at that, one has to have tremendous mental strength. “It’s just your mindset. Everything else is similar. You have to be really strong mentally. The physical aspect is important too, and it helps in the long run that the Indian team is presently focused on training,” he says.
 
 Switching to the present, where he’s supposed to lead India B against Karnataka in the Deodhar Trophy final at the HPCA ground here, Iyer says: “I’m looking forward to Thursday’s game and hopefully, I’ll get a good one.” Iyer is a touch disappointed with the way he was dismissed after being well-set (for 33) against Karnataka on Monday night, as he flicked a ball straight to deep mid wicket when India B were chasing 297.“I was going really well, and wasn’t panicking, and suddenly I played this stroke. I thought the ball must’ve gone into the gap, but unfortunately, it went straight into the hands of that fielder. I’m getting starts, I just need to pass through the 30s and 40s, and I’m sure the big one is nearby,” he feels.
 
 Of course, it isn’t easy to lead a team like India B, which was cobbled together only a few days ago for this tournament. “You need few days time to be together before the tournament to gel with each other. You cannot come and straightaway handle a team, because you haven’t been with them for long. It needs time. We arrived just a day before the game.” he reveals.
 
