MUMBAI:   of P-North ward   is the latest victim of the 'tak tak' gang, which commits crimes by knocking on car windows and distracting drivers. 

 In a brazen act, the gang struck right outside the Mumbai police commissioner's headquarters at Crawford Market. Hence, besides the MRA Marg Police, the city crime branch too is investigating the case.
 
 The incident took place on Thursday when Jadhav, who was accompanied by N ward officer Bhagyashree Kapse, went to meet Dr Sangita Hasnale.
 
 Hasnale heads the market division of the BMC which is located on the second floor of Crawford Market clock tower opposite the police commissioner's office.
 
 Jadhav's driver, K Inamdar, had parked the SUV and was reading a newspaper when a man knocked on the door and told him something had fallen, said a source.
 
 The driver got out and spotted a few Rs 10 notes. He beckoned a beggar woman who was sitting nearby to take the money.
 
 When Inamdar got into the car, he realised that Jadhav's purse was missing, the source added.
 
 When he narrated the incident to a shopkeeper passing by, he was told a 'tak tak' gang was on the prowl.
 
 He immediately contacted Jadhav and they went to MRA Marg and lodged a complaint.
 
 Jadhav said she had lost Rs 30,000, a mobile phone worth Rs 15,000, PAN and Aadhar cards and a few debit cards, said Sukhlala Varpe, police inspector of MRA Marg police station.
 
 When TOI called her up, Jadhav refused to divulge details, saying, "I have lodged a complaint with the police, you can take the details from them." Varpe said this was the first such case to be reported in Crawford Market area in recent times.
 
 Sources said CCTV footage had failed to yield any clues since Jadhav's jeep was only partially visible.
 
 Locals said the 'tak tak' gang active near Crawford Market is from South India, hence, it's called the 'Madrasi' gang.
 
 "There are five to six members who distract drivers and flee with belongings kept in the vehicles," said Zubair Khatri, a shopkeeper. 
 
 
