NEW DELHI: A professional hospitality major may soon be running the capital’s   hotel. Days after TOI broke the story of how the government was looking for options to take this prime property out of India   Development Corporation’s ( ) fold, KJ Alphons, minister of state (independent charge) for tourism detailed the options being considered for The Ashok.

 “There is no question of disinvesting or divesting in The Ashok. The ownership will remain with the government. The hotel’s operation and management may be done by some leading hotel chain on a revenue/profit-share model. This is an option available with us. The other option is that ITDC continues running it. No decision has been taken till now. These are thing that the prime minister and the cabinet will take a call on,” Alphons told TOI.
 
 One issue on which this plan hinges is the fact that The Ashok has regular employees. If a private chain takes over the operation and management, they may not want to retain all the employees. In that case, who will pay for the terminal benefits is an issue that will have to be decided.
 
 Asked if the government will be able to hand over The Ashok to a private player with just over a year of its term left, Alphons said: “It’s all possible. Unlike Air India, Ashok and Samrat (the adjacent hotel) are making very good profit.” In 2016-17 fiscal, The Ashok posted its highest ever turnover of Rs 152.9 crore.
 
 Top government sources said the Modi administration is of the view that the state should not be running hotels or airlines and focus on social sector services, while leaving the former to private players. It had earlier decided to sell off 14 of 16 loss-making hotels owned by ITDC for this reason. The two hotels not on this list are Delhi’s Ashok and its adjoining Samrat.
 
 The Ashok is sprawled over 25 acres in prime   area.   had bought a three-acre plot in Chanakyapuri (about 2km from The Ashok) in 2007 for a record Rs 611 crore — making it the most expensive land buy for any hotel in India at that time. The 25 acres of Ashok and Samrat are at a more prime location.
 
 The Ashok has 550 rooms, which comprises of 389 rooms, 160 suites and a presidential suite. The property has about 350 regular ITDC employees — down from 1,800 in its heydays. Combining the trainees and contractual employees, the number goes up to 550-600, said a hotel official.
 
 ITDC, a public sector undertaking under the tourism ministry, runs 16 hotels in Delhi, Patna, Jammu, Ranchi, Bhubaneswar, Puri, Bhopal, Bharatpur, Jaipur, Guwahati, Mysore, Puducherry and Itanagar.
 
 
