CHANDIGARH: Agitating against the government can now lead to withdrawal of   of private schools. This has been stated in the recognition letters recently issued to private schools. The education department has added two new points to the conditions that may lead to withdrawal of recognition to schools.

 While one of them restricts schools and students to agitate against the government or disseminate opinions showing disloyalty or disaffection against the government, the other states the government at its discretion can withdraw recognition of any school.
 
 The department further restricts schools from allowing children to participate in political gatherings. The letter states, “Recognition is liable to be withdrawn if the management of the staff of the school takes part in agitation directed against the authority of the government or disseminate opinions tending to excite feelings of disloyalty or disaffection against the government or of enmity and hatred between classes or if pupils are permitted to attend political meetings or to engage in any form of political or communal agitation.”
 
 The next point, which too has been added this year, reads, “Government reserves the right to grant, refuse or withdraw recognition at its entire discretion.”
 
 While the schools are questioning the move, department officials say it is not their decision and was taken following orders from different authorities.
 
 The director of a prominent school, who is also a member of   (ISA), says, “It is our fundamental right to protest against something wrong, so how can someone restrict us from doing so?”
 
 Another school head says, “How can the government withdraw recognition without giving schools a chance to explain the situation. It can’t be withdrawn at their entire discretion.”
 
 Jasdeep Kalra, director,  , said, “It is kind of a strange clause to be put in a school recognition letter. When did anyone hear a school or staff or students agitating against the government or being communal? On the contrary, no one teaches students about patriotism, honesty, integrity loyalty, obedience, discipline more than schools.”
 
 Schools from Tricity as well criticised the administration. “This is another example that the administration sees schools as adversaries and not partners in education of children. Instead of working with private schools to make Chandigarh a hub of education, every attempt is being made to create obstacles for private schools who have selflessly been providing their best to the children,” says a principal of another school.
 
 Rubinderjit  , director, school education, says, “We have not added anything on our own. These points are based on instructions received by us from different parties, including government, ministries and  , in the last few years.”
 
 The letters of grant of recognition are being sent to the schools which had applied in 2016 and 2017. The schools were inspected in February and March the recognition has been renewed for three years.
 
 Other conditions
 
 Follow RTE Act and other instructions, provision of rules of recognition of   Education Code
 
 Follow land allotment conditions
 
 Not prescribing particular shop for purchasing books/uniform
 
 Reserve fund be pledged as made applicable from time to time
 
 Follow CBSE guidelines, fire safety norms
 
 It is kind of a strange clause to be put in a school recognition letter. When did anyone hear a school or staff or students agitating against the government or being communal?
 
 Jasdeep Kalra, director, AKSIPS Group of Schools
 
 We have not added anything on our own. These points are based on instructions received by us from different parties, including government, ministries and National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, in the last few years
 
 Rubinderjit Singh Brar, director, school education
 
 
