Following the horrifying fire incident at a   which claimed five lives, the   (JMC) shunted out three  . However, fire officials believe that such suspensions may not solve the real problems. TOI’s Ajay Singh spoke to JMC mayor Ashok Lahoti on future plans of strengthening the city’s fire wing. Excerpts:

 
 
 I believe that Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) is equally responsible for such incidents. The JMC alone cannot be blamed. The meeting to transfer the fire cess has been called twice, attended by the UDH minister and principal secretary. A principal approval to transfer the cess fund was given at the meeting. However, JDA officials are acting above law and not following the direction.
 
 
 
 The JDA is sitting over about Rs 60 crore in fire cess. This actually belongs to JMC. After Saturday’s incident, I have spoken to the UDH minister and asked him to intervene in the matter and transfer the funds at the earliest. This is required for JMC to strengthen the fire department.
 
 
 
 
 Certainly, it’s the need of the hour. The JDA has no role in dealing with fire incidents. As the fire department is under JMC, developers in any part of the city should take   and deposit fire cess with the JMC. JDA should only approve building plans.
 
 
 
 
 Jaipur’s Walled City is on the world map and plays host to thousands of domestic and foreign tourists. In the absence of funds, we are not able to procure equipment that can douse fire in the narrow lanes. At present, the fire department has only one snorkel ladder which can fight fire up to a height of 44 metres. We urgently need a hydraulic ladder as the number of high-rises in the city has increased.
 
 
 
 
 Not really, we have adequate amount of staff members. During emergencies, we get support and assistance from other departments. However, there is a dire need to upgrade fire tenders.
 
 
 
 
 We can’t solely hold them responsible. No one can deny the fact that our firefighters saved a life in Ramganj, a day before the Vidhyadhar Nagar incident. A committee has been set up to investigate the faults of the fire department in handling the Vidhyadhar Nagar fire.
 
 
