CHANDIGARH: The UT electricity department will soon be unbundled and corporatised, if all goes as per plans.

 Under pressure from the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) for restructuring and reformation, which is mandatory as per the Electricity Act, 2003, a proposal has been mooted for corporatisation of the department.
 
 The commission had pulled up electricity department during a public hearing session early this month for delay in enforcing the mandate of Electricity Act, 2003, pertaining to corporatisation following with action has been initiated.
 
 Once the proposal is accorded approval, the department will become an autonomous body registered under Company Act 1956, which will be controlled by managing director and directors. For improving the performance and providing better services to city residents, state transmission utility (STU) and state load dispatch centre (SLDC) will be formed.
 
 As Chandigarh does not have its own power generation, the state transmission utility will be responsible for ensuring smooth transmission of power in the city. State load dispatch centre will be the apex body to ensure integrated operation of the power system. It will also be responsible for optimum scheduling and dispatch of electricity; maintaining accounts of the quantity of electricity transmitted; and maintaining control over the intra-state transmission system.
 
 The UT electricity department is amongst the few that are yet to follow the directive of dividing distribution and transmission wings into separate entities. Punjab and   formed different utilities for transmission and distribution a long time back.
 
 Confirming the development, UT superintending engineer M P Singh said the proposal is pending before the higher authorities for approval. “Restructuring and reformation of the department will have to be done as it is mandatory under Electricity Act 2003,” said Singh.
 
 Senior officials are of the view that corporatisation will help in improving the efficiency and residents will also get better services. For past many years, the electricity department has been struggling to streamline its systems and upgrade its ageing infrastructure. The department has been struggling to bring down the transmission and distribution losses (T&D).
 
 In the petition filed before the commission, the department stated it has managed to bring down the T&D losses from 16% recorded in 2013-14 to 14% in 2016-17. However, it will be difficult to bring the losses down substantially from this level. According to the directions of the commission, T&D losses of Chandigarh should not be more than 13.25%. The cash-strapped   is also poor at recovery of dues. The department has to recover Rs 15 crore from defaulters.
 
 Although senior officials are in favour of corporatisation as they claim will help in the resolving the issues ailing the current set up, the UT Powermen Union is against the restructuring and reformation of the department.
 
 Voicing concerns against the proposed move, Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary, UT Powermen Union, said corporatisation will lead to privatisation of the department. “The main motive of the corporation will be to earn revenue by charging more from consumers,” said Joshi.
 
 He said the proposed move will do no good the department. “If the issue of staff and material shortage is addressed, the department can serve the consumers in a more efficient manner,” said Joshi.
 
 The electricity department caters to 2.28 lakh consumers, who are divided into nine different categories. As per official figures, 1.99 lakh consumers are domestic users, accounting for more than 87% of the overall figure. Remaining 23% consumers are divided into commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply categories.
 
 
 
