MANGALURU: Chief minister H D   on Wednesday, while asserting that the state government is keeping a close watch on the developments in coastal Karnataka in general and Dakshina Kannada in particular that is reeling under heavy rains, said all possible assistance will be provided to the district administrations to tide over the crisis. The administration will provide suitable assistance to people affected by the rains lashing since Tuesday, he said.

 
 Kumaraswamy who obtained updates from deputy commissioner Sasikanth Senthil about rain damage in DK said he has instructed the DC to take all steps necessary to mitigate sufferings of people affected by the rain. Instructions have been given to ensure there is no loss of life or property, he said, adding senior officials of the state government are in constant touch with the district administration to assist them in any manner whatsoever possible.
 
  
  
 
 
 Instructions have been given to provide basic amenities to the affected people and additional natural calamity grants will be provided to the district administration to meet the situation, he said. Repair of power and road infrastructure that has taken a beating due to the rains will be attended to on a priority, he said, adding the administration has also been instructed to keep a close watch on the coastal area for signs of sea erosion if any and attend to it.
 
 With holiday declared to educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Wednesday on account of reports of continuing spells of heavy rains, Kumaraswamy said, these holidays will be extended if the situation so warrants. Teams of National Disaster Response Force has been dispatched to the coastal districts, he said, assuring people of the coastal districts that the state government is with them in their hour of need.
 
 
 
 
 The NDRF team reached Mangaluru at 0240 hrs. One sub team, in early morning, left for Udupi, which is 35 kms away from Mangaluru, and reached there at 0730 hrs for search operations. One girl, aged 10 years, drowned in one canal on Tuesday. Our sub team traced her and retrieved her body at about 0830 hrs. Now that sub team is being sent to Mangaluru. At present there is no rain and situation is normal. 
 
