MUMBAI: The   on Thursday rejected the contention of unaided autonomous professional colleges that the state   (FRA) had no say in fees charged by the institutes.

 A division bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and Burgess Colabawalla said the fees proposed by the   for every academic year would be subject to regulation by the FRA under the state’s 2015 law. This important order brings prominent colleges such as K J Somaiya College of Engineering, L N Welingkar Institute of Management, and Sardar Patel Institute of Technology under the FRA’s purview.
 
 “The argument that (autonomous colleges) are entitled to complete freedom in determination of fees is basically wrong,” said the judges. The court was hearing petitions filed by a group of colleges on the applicability of the Maharashtra Unaided Private Professional Educational Institutions (Regulation of Admission and Fees) Act enacted in 2015. The colleges had contended that if the law was applied to them, it would snatch their financial autonomy and affect academic excellence.
 
 The high court rejected arguments that there was a conflict between the latest universities Act and the 2015 law. “If parameters as provided under the 2015 law are to be exercised by the autonomous colleges while determining their fees, they would have much more freedom to charge fees in proportion with the services rendered by them in their pursuit of academic excellence in contrast to the limited scope that they have under Statute 613 (of the Universities Act). The only role that the authority would play is to determine as to whether the fees so fixed by the unaided private professional educational institutions, like the petitioners, would amount to commercialization or profiteering or not,” said the bench.
 
 The fee regulator, established under the 2015 Act, is headed by Justice M N Gilani, a retired Bombay high court judge. Last year, the FRA had said it had jurisdiction to regulate fees under the 2015 law and asked the autonomous colleges to submit their fee structure for the 2017-2018 academic year.
 
 The colleges, including Somaiya, Welingkar and Sardar Patel, had approached the court challenging the decision. Senior advocate Aspi Chinoy, counsel for Somaiya, had contended that autonomy had been granted to them so that the colleges that have potential for offering programmes of higher standards have complete freedom in administrative, academic and financial matters. Senior advocate Shrihari Aney, appearing for the state, pointed out that in the new Universities Act enacted in 2016, “financial autonomy” had been taken away from the colleges; they were allowed only academic and administrative autonomy.
 
 The high court said while the rules under the 1994 Universities Act provided that total fees should not exceed the cost of education per student, the 2015 law had broader parameters. The colleges could include factors like location, cost of land and building, infrastructure, facilities and even additional expenditure, incurred by them for achieving academic excellence, while fixing fees.
 
