KOLKATA: After spending more than 72 hours hauled up either inside cars or in dingy hotel rooms at landslide-hit Drass along the Kargil-Srinagar Road, some 2,500 tourists from Kolkata and elsewhere in   started towards Srinagar on Thursday night after the   cleared boulders and other debris from the landslide spot. About 5,000 visitors from across the country got stranded after the landslide on Tuesday afternoon.

 Earlier, the Army and Drass police had decided that even though their operations would be over by late on Thursday evening, the tourists won’t be allowed to move only on Friday morning. Tourists, however, pleaded with the authorities to let them start their journey on Thursday night itself. Some of them showed tickets for a Delhi-bound flight they had to board at 5.30am on Friday. Police, eventually, opened the Kargil-Srinagar Road to traffic around 8.30pm on Thursday. Administration took care of snapping mobile and internet connectivity after terrorists reportedly sneaked into Kashmir.
 
 
 More than 450 vehicles were allowed to move towards Srinagar from Drass in the first tranche. Traffic moved slowly as hundreds of cars were held up when the landslide hit the Kargil-Srinagar Road, a kilometre ahead of Drass on Tuesday.
 
 Amalendu Mukherjee, a   from   in Kolkata, was desperate to move out of Drass. He and his family were scheduled to board a train from Srinagar on Thursday but couldn’t as they were stranded in Drass. “Both the Bengal and   & Kashmir administrations helped us get tickets for Friday and we didn’t want to miss the train this time. We had plans to spend Wednesday at   before returning but that, unfortunately, didn’t happen.”
 
 Konnagar’s Abhijit Banerjee said, “After remaining stranded for over three days, my family were relieved to reach Sringar past midnight on Thursday. We managed to board the early morning Srinagar-Delhi flight and are waiting at Delhi airport to board the next flight to Kolkata.”
 
 Ganesh De, a hawker from  , who also headed back home from Drass on Thursday night, regretted having to forego a visit to Sonmarg. “The main purpose of our visit was to see Kargil.”
 
 A group of 26 tourists, including 23 from Durgapur and three from Belghoria, safely reached Srinagar from Drass and then flew to Delhi. From there, they boarded the Sealdah-bound Rajdhani around 4:22pm on Friday.
 
