Nagpur: Several Ambedkarite groups have joined under a banner of ‘Bhima-Koregaon Ambedkari Jan Andolan Kriti Samiti’ and will be holding a protest rally in the city on Sunday (February 18). Emerging dalit leader and newly elected MLA from Gujarat Jignesh Mewani and student leader from Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, Omar Khalid, are expected to be main speakers at the rally. Samiti’s convener Dinesh Godghate told TOI on Wednesday that the organizers have received confirmation from Mewani and Khalid, while RPI faction leaders Jogendra Kawade and Rajendra Gavai are also expected to make it to the rally. Police clearance for holding the rally at Indora ground has been obtained, claimed Godghate. “The rally is to press for two demands — slapping of treason charges against Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote — the two accused of inciting violence against dalits attending the Bima-Koregaon memorial on January 1. The event there was held to mark 300 years of the battle in which dalit troops under Biritsh tutelage defeated the Peshwa’s forces to end the Maratha rulers’ dominance once for all. Godghate said two other RPI faction leaders — Union minister of state Ramdas Athawale and Sulekha Kumbhare — have not been invited for the rally as they were supporting the BJP government in the state that has been accused of complacency in the attack on dalits returning from the Bhima-Koregaon event. “At the rally, we will ask Ambedkar followers to boycott these two leaders who are with the communal BJP,” said Godghate. He said another RPI faction leader Prakash Ambedkar, who is at the forefront of the dalit protests, was also kept out of the rally as he wanted the event to be held under his party’s banner. Interestingly, the police have given permission to hold the rally despite the fact that Mewani and Khalid are known to deliver inflammatory speeches. There is suspicion that urban Maoist groups are keen on capitalizing Bhima-Koregaon incident. The successful bandh across the state was totally orchestrated by Maoists who have close links with Prakash Ambedkar who gave the bandh call. Ambedkar himself has denied any such links and said the bandh was a spontaneous reaction against the BJP government.