NAGPUR:   is staring at a major school education crisis for the 2018-19 academic session as almost 3,000   have decided to   the admission process under Right To Education Act (RTE) till their dues are cleared. In a rare show of unity, various school associations in the state have come together to take a collective call on the boycott, which could block over 50,000 RTE admissions.

 Independent English Schools Association (IESA), a state-level organization, held a meeting at Nagpur on Saturday to discuss the issue with their local members. “The decision is unanimous. None of us will admit students under the RTE quota until our dues amounting to Rs 800 crore are cleared,” said Rajendra Singh, Pune-based president of IESA, adding that non-payment of RTE dues is, in fact, harming non-RTE children. “The burden is falling on the remaining 75% students and that’s not a good sign.” 
 
 IESA members had a phone conversation with principal secretary for school education Nand Kumar, but the issue remains unresolved. Jagruti Dharmadhikari, IESA vice-president, said, “The secretary said the government has already released Rs70 crore for now. But this piecemeal approach has to end; full payment must be cleared at one go.”
 
 Replying to a TOI query, Kumar sent a text message saying, “Money has been released. They will get it soon.” Schools are convinced that they will not call off their boycott for partial payments. 
 
 S C Kedia, president of Mumbai-based  , reiterated that their members are standing together on this issue. Kedia said, “Under RTE guidelines...our job is to give free admissions, while the state government reimburses us through two annual instalments. But we have a situation wherein schools are compelled to keep giving admissions, while the state has failed to discharge its duties.” 
 
 Kedia added that non-payment of dues has affected basic operations. “There is resentment among teachers that they did not get reasonable increments. Also the heavy financial burden may very well force us to stop all extra-curricular activities from the new session starting in June. Keeping all these things in mind, and the continued non-cooperation from state, we have decided that no admissions will be given under RTE quota.”He added that the government needs to reimburse the money or give some kind of assurance.
 
 
