Trichy: Residents of Maris Avenue and Friend’s Enclave – which come under Ward Number 46 – have claimed that the sullage stagnation within the now non-functioning Tansi Factory compound has been causing them multiple problems for close to two decades. They said that the sullage, which originates from Periya Milaguparai area, has been stagnating in their locality due to non-existence of surface drainage and claimed that the district corporation had not provided any permanent solution in spite of the residents requesting for it for the past 18 years. The non-functioning Tansi Factory is located opposite to the old collector office road and the two localities are between collector office road and Uyyakondan canal. Right from adverse mosquito menace to pollution of our borewells, everything is affected due to the sullage stagnation, alleged Kamakshi Narayanan, resident at Friend’s Enclave. “Around 70 to 75 houses have been affected as a result and many even vacated from this area due to this issue,” Kamakshi said. She added that the stagnation has increased with rain as there is no surface drainage in the residential area. “We have been continuously asking the corporation to provide a permanent solution for this right from the year 2000, but apart from a few temporary fixations, nothing has been done yet,” she said. The residents said that the non-existence of drainage system meant that they directed sullage from their houses to the nearby empty plots and their gardens. Another resident, S Kannan, had to raise the level of his house thrice in order to make sure the stagnated sullage behind his house wouldn’t enter inside. “Not only this, we are not able to use the borewell water since the pipes are totally polluted,” said the retired member of ordinance factory board, ministry of defence in Kolkata. Meanwhile, speaking about the issue, a corporation official said that the two mentioned localities will be covered in the second phase of the underground drainage system (UGD) project. “We will inspect the localities. Preliminary works for second phase of UGD will commence within the year post the implementation of the project, the issue will be prevented from recurring,” the official told TOI.