With   around the corner, Gurugram mothers have put on their chef’s hats to cook something healthy and tasty for their exam-stressed kids. “Board exams take a toll on kids as they study for hours daily. So, healthy and tasty food is the best way to pamper them,” says Anupama Jain, author and mother. Mothers in the city have taken to social media and society groups to discuss recipes. They are also innovating with their recipes to include veggies and grains. 

  
  Gurugram moms are pampering kids with wheat burgers and sprout 
 
 
 
 
 Since many kids avoid healthy food, mothers are adding ingredients that have nutrition value and are tasty too. “We are a south Indian family and 
 is our go-to meal. I add oats, rice flour, curd, leafy vegetables, spinach and coriander to the dosa batter. These ingredients add nutritional value to the dish. My daughter wouldn’t eat these things otherwise, but thanks to this recipe, she enjoys all these vegetables,” says Anupama, a resident of Sector 54. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “I add spinach, fenugreek and coriander to 
 and make them with ragi flour. My kid has it with vegetables or dal for protein. Just one 
 is extremely nutritious and filling. Since he has it with vegetable, the taste does not bother him and it gives him energy and concentration to sit and study for long hours. It also does not make him lazy after lunch,” says Shanthi, a resident of Sector 30. 
 
 
 “Since kids are fond of fast food these days, I make wheat pizzas with a lot of healthy toppings like mushrooms, chicken and corns. I also pamper my daughter with wheat burgers with mixed vegetable patties. It keeps her happy and these veggies fulfil her nutrient needs as well,” says Monika Khanna, whose daughter will appear for Class XI exams. 
 
 Snacking and studying go hand in hand, so mothers are making interesting snacks for their kids to munch on while they study. “I make this special 
 with roasted puff rice, chickpea, onion and peanuts. This snack is very light and filling. It does not cause any lethargy and tastes amazing. I also soak peas overnight and make chaat. It is very easy to make and can be stored so that my daughter can have it even when I am not around,” says Rohini, a resident of DLF Phase 3. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “My kids love to snack on steamed sprouts 
 . I pep it up with 
 , onions, corns and any other veggies as per their demand. Sprouts are high in vitamins and fibre. They are much better than any packaged food,” says Kalyani, a Biotech professor and mother of two. 
 
 
 
 “I make detox water for my daughter everyday. I soak 
 or 
 in water on alternate days for her. Both ingredients help in reducing body pain which occurs due to sitting for long hours. She drinks at least one litre of this water everyday,” says Shanthi. 
 
  
  
 
 
 “I make special cutlets instead of the usual potato patty. I grate carrot, radish and add peas and onions to it. These are made in olive oil. I also make brown rice with stir fried tofu and vegetables. Tofu is low on carbs and is high in protein. I prefer brown rice over white. I top this dish with barbeque or chilli sauce. My son loves this meal,” Kavita Pachauri, a Park Plaza resident and mother of a Class X student. 
 
 
 
 “Almonds, walnuts, soapnuts are always kept on my kid’s bedside,” says Rohini. “I soak about 10 almonds every night and my daughter has them throughout the day, Almonds are good for memory. I also give her walnuts and cashew nuts,” says Anupama. 
 
 “A jar filled with mixed dry fruits is placed at my son’s bedside. He can snack on them while studying,” says Charushilla Narula, resident of Beverly Hills. 
 
 Other than nuts, exotic fruits are also a favoured snack by mothers. “During   time, along with fruits like apples and bananas, I add strawberries, custard apples and dragon fruits to my basket,” says Chrushilla added. 
 “There is always cups of mixed fruits kept in the fridge, which includes papaya, bananas and apples,” Anupama adds.
 
 - Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
