KOLKATA: Help thy neighbour in crisis.

 The enteric outbreak in pockets of south-east Kolkata has brought to the fore a group of unlikely heroes who are walking the extra mile to help their neighbours since the outbreak.
 
 While some people are sharing filtered water with their neighbours others are offering their services to accompany the elderly to physicians and buy medicines and do grocery shopping for them.
 
 Bapi  , 46, has opened the door of his house to his neighbours for clean drinking water from his purifier. Every morning more than four of his neighbours reach his three-storey house with containers to fetch water. Saha, who says he has done “well in life due to the blessings of his elders”, lets them into his house and fill up the containers from the water filter installed on the first floor.
 
 Saha is modest when he talks about his gesture. “This is the least I can do for my neighbours. There is a crisis and all of us need to face it together till it is resolved. I have grown up in this neighbourhood and they are like my extended family,” said Saha.
 
 Saha’s magnanimity has inspired others too.   Sarkar, a young homemaker in the neighbouring area, has been running errands like purchasing medicines and do grocery shopping for several elderly residents.
 
 “I cannot offer clean drinking water but I have offered to run to the market to buy medicines and edibles. There are many elderly citizens who are suffering but do not have the strength left to visit the market. Every day I try to help out at least two such neighbours,” said Sanchita.
 
 The helpful attitude displayed by Saha and Sarkar acquire more significance because the outbreak has turned severe and claimed a life already. Biswajit Das, 33, died on Wednesday afternoon after complaining of diarrhoea. Any timely help can save people from suffering.
 
 More than 4,000 people have already been affected by the outbreak since last week. The affected areas are spread over several civic wards, including places like Bagha Jatin, parts of Patuli, parts of Kasba, pockets of Santoshpur and stretches behind   and Nonadanga near Ruby.
 
 Several families in many parts of Bagha Jatin do not have adequate manpower to rush to the hospital if anybody is taken ill due to the outbreak. Biplab   and his friends have been helping many people to visit local physicians or the Bagh Jatin State General Hospital in auto-rickshaws. “There are several elderly citizens who have nobody to help them. So we decide to pitch in with our services. We are taking turns to ferry them to the physicians or check on them to see if they have run out of medicines,” said Pyne, an LIC agent.
 
