MOHALI:The refusal of sharing of property by his father and brother forced   to commit suicide, claimed defence counsel N P S Waraich during the resumed hearing in the   case in a local court in Mohali on Saturday.

 Waraich, during the cross-examination of  , brother of Aikom and complainant in the case, said Aikom’s paternal uncle “had committed suicide in 2013”.
 
 However Darshan, said, “We produced a relevant copy of an FIR in the court that mentioned that my uncle was murdered. He never committed suicide. The defence also tried to mislead the court by saying Aikom had come to our house in Phase VI and demanded his share in the property and when we denied, he went back to his house in Phase 3B2 and shot himself. But we have submitted enough evidence in the court falsifying the claims of the counsel.”
 
 Aikom's body was found in a suitcase at his residence in Phase 3B1, Mohali, on March 19, 2017, when his wife   was trying to take the body in an auto-rickshaw. The auto driver noticed blood oozing out of the suitcase and immediately informed the police. Later in the court, Seerat had made a U-turn and claimed that Aikom had committed suicide.
 
 Terminder Singh, the prosecution counsel, said, “The defence is now left with no arguments because of which they are just beating around the bush by producing false arguments.” Terminder said the defence is trying to digress the case merits, whereas Seerat, in her statement to police, had confessed to have killed him. “We have enough evidence to nail her,” said Terminder.
 
 On the other hand, the police submitted the CFSL and viscera report in the court. Sources said the viscera report has ascertained that Aikom was not under influence of liquor when he was killed and nor he was poisoned, but died after being hit by a bullet. The report said the shell recovered from the crime spot and the bullet found on the body of the victim was fired from the weapon recovered from the spot of crime.
 
 Terminder said, “It is clear from the CFSL and viscera reports that Aikom was killed by the weapon which was recovered on disclosure statement of Seerat. She disclosed to the police that the pistol she used to kill her husband was kept inside a wooden almirah while the magazine was hidden in a container, which the police recovered. However, Seerat Kaur had kept changing her statements in the court. After confessing to her crime, she later changed her stance and stated that Aikom had committed suicide.”
 
 
 
 A court has issued warrants and directed police to produce Tul Bahadur, the prime witness in the Aikom murder case, in the court by March 7. Tul Bahadur had fled to Nepal, his native place. Police had once made an unsuccessful attempt to get him back to Mohali. “Though his appearance in the court is very important, if he fails to appear, the court will have to rely upon his statement recorded under Section 164 of the code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC),” Terminder said. Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal said, “We have already written to the ministry of external affairs, seeking permission to get Tul Bahadur from Nepal. The court has also issued directions to make him appear. Once we get the permission, we will send a team to get him to Mohali.”
 
 
