A bunch of women in the south Indian movie industry, including assistant directors, technicians and dancers, have come together to form the South Indian Women Film Employees’ Association ( ). The idea is to work for the welfare of women in the industry and regulate job opportunities. 

 Radhika, member of SIFWA, who works in the casting and production departments, tells us, “We have several women’s association in the country, but there’s nothing specific for women technicians in the film industry. Despite having so many talented artistes, we only have a handful that is successful today. One of the main reasons for it is harassment and unequal treatment meted out to us. This association is not against men, but will work in tandem with them to make the industry a safe and a better place for women. Senior directors and technicians, like Vasantabalan, PC Sreeram, Vetri Maaran and Ranjith have extended their support to us.   has also come on board as our advisor.”
 
 While Vaishali (associate cinematographer) is the president of SIFWA, Angel (assistant director) is the joint president.   (assistant director) has come on board as the secretary, with   (assistant director) and   (assistant director) taking positions as joint secretary and treasurer respectively. “This association is open to women in all 24 departments of the four film industries in the south,” she states. 
 
 Ask Radhika what areas the organisation will work on and she lists out, “First and foremost, we’ll work towards getting a mobile toilet on the shoot location for women. Celebrities get their own caravans. But apart from that, there are so many women workers on the set — ADs, costume assistants, makeup artistes, and even housekeeping staff. Most restrooms are far away from the location. We want to have mobile toilets in the field. We also want to pitch temporary tents on the spot for group dancers to change.”
 
 She continues, “There’s harassment and abuse in all professional fields. With this organisation, we hope to create a platform for women in the industry so that they can register complaints and attend counselling without feeling restricted. Our aim is to encourage girls to pursue a career in the industry without fear.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
