Vijayawada: The region’s infamous heat is already having citizens worried. In the first week of March itself, mercury has touched 38 degrees Celsius, and citizens are wondering what’s in store during peak  .

 Vijayawada is known for its scorching heat, so much so that it is called Blazewada. Past 10 days have seen a sudden spike in temperatures. The city had witnessed moderate temperatures until third week of February. 
 
 In March last year, maximum temperatures in Vijayawada hovered between 28 and 32 degrees Celsius in Vijayawada, as per statistics by Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA). Maximum average temperatures recorded in Vijayawada in the month of March from 1981 as per the records of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) is 35.7 degrees centigrade, and it looks like that mark will be breached this time.
 
 Main roads in the city are increasing wearing a deserted look in the afternoon hours as denizens are preferring to stay indoors. “Already, temperature in the city is reminding us of the weather in mid-summer,” said K Narasimha Rao, who works in a private bank. “We had not faced such   weather in March earlier. We are postponing our works.” 
 
 The sudden change in temperature is causing health issues including dehydration and sunstroke. Physicians suggest that people should avoid exposure to intense day-time heat. Dr Phani Srinivas, a general physician here, said, “Sudden changes in temperatures have adverse impact on the body. One should not suddenly step into direct sunlight in the afternoon hours, which can result in a sunstroke or dehydration. We have received a number of sunstroke cases already. People should take necessary precautions.” 
 
 He said, “It will take a few weeks for us to get accustomed to the increasing temperatures. It is better to carry a water bottle and oral rehydration solution (ORS) while stepping out.”
 
 The Government General Hospital in the city has made special arrangements to address sunstroke and dehydration cases. Voluntary organisations have started free distribution of water and buttermilk on streets to help denizens in the sunny weather. A Bala Raju, who runs a voluntary service organisation, said, “We usually start distributing water in April every year considering the hot weather. However, this year, we started distributing free buttermilk distribution at a stall at Kotha Vantena centre. We are happy that we are quenching the thirst of hundreds of denizens every day.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Vijayawada Municipal Corporation and Krishna district administration, who are monitoring the weather changes, have sped up the process of restoring old borewells and tanks, in view of water availability problems in the city. The engineering wing of the VMC has focused on making alternative arrangements to supply water as levels in Prakasam Barrage are dipping drastically. Mayor Koneru Sreedhar, said: “We have focused on the summer action plan, and all departments will work collectively. Water levels in Prakasam Barrage are sufficient as of now, and we will focus on restoring borewells on canal bunds. Water tankers will be made available in all circles of the civic body, and we have discussed this in a recent meeting with officials.” 
 
 District collector B Lakshmikantham has given a call to take up a mass tree plantation in the city to reduce increasing pollution and temperature.
 
 
