JAIPUR:Gone are the days when government   were the last resort for parents. Swami Vivekanand Govt Model (SVGM) schools are facing unprecedented rush from parents seeking admissions for their wards.

  
  
 
 The rush for admissions is so intense that these schools are receiving hundreds of recommendation letters from MPs, MLAs and bureaucrats for admissions.
 
 These completely transformed government schools now have smart classes, computer labs, hi-speed internet, science labs, drinking water and toilets along with better learning outcomes and are beating Jaipur’s private schools in demand for admissions.
 
 
  
  
  Swami Vivekanand Government Model schools in Dudu
 
 
 The long queue of parents outside SVGM in Dudu (60km from Jaipur) handing applications attached with recommendation letters even after the   process is over has taken the town by surprise. The school began two years ago like any other government school. It found no takers in the beginning. The teachers had to reach out to families to convince them to admit their children in the school. They now hide inside the school in the fear of being mobbed by parents. The school has received 280 applications against 90 seats in Class VI (entry level).
 
 
 
  “I am helpless. I have said sorry to them and asked them to try again next year,” said Rekha Yadav, principal of the SVGM School in Dudu.
 
 She recalls that in the 25 years of her service, the teachers had to always worry about getting students. “This response is surprising,” she said.
 
 Unaware of the response, the government has not framed any admission policy and seats are granted on a first-come, first-served basis. Priority is given to children of single mothers (widow or divorcee) and those applying from the block. Introduced in 2015, the state has 134 SVGM government schools in educationally backward blocks. These are CBSE English medium schools for classes VI to X.
 
 The huge demand is also because these schools do not charge any fee like the private ones. Vertika Sharma, principal of the SVGM School in Makarwali in Srinagar Block of Ajmer, said that all the 80 students admitted by them were from private schools. “This model of education is taking the private schools head on. Off the 220 applications, 90% of them were from private schools. I am running my school like any other elite school in cities, with adequate number of teachers, activity rooms and holding debates in English and preparing students for any competition,” said Sharma.
 
 Even MLAs such as Narpat Singh Rajvi, who represents Vidhyadhar Nagar (Jaipur) area which does not fall in the backward block category, has been approached by parents seeking recommendation. “I was shocked when some parents requested to write a letter for admissions to a government school. They wanted letters for a government school in Dudu. This change is satisfying.”
 
 Meanwhile, recommendation demands are not restricted to MLAs or MPs. Aqeel Khan, sub-divisional magistrate of Simalwara tribal sub-division, said they were witnessing a spurt in children attending ‘ratri chaupals’ (public meetings held at night) with their parents.
 
 “A little probe led us to conclude that they were attending these ‘chaupals’ hoping to meet officials for getting a recommendation for admission,” said Khan.
 
 The SVGM in Simalwara is one of the best school in terms of infrastructure and students are insisting on studying in that school.
 
