Awaiting the results of the Class 12 Board Exams is daunting for any student, considering that even a fraction of percentage makes a difference in the ranking. This can narrow the choice of universities that one gets to choose from. But getting lower-than-expected grades that may not meet your ideal college’s cut-off mark is not the end of the world. You just need to come up with a Plan B, as there are always other options to explore.  , professor and staff coordinator at St. Joseph’s College, shares a few tips to help you come up with alternatives...

 
 
 Kiran says that there are several students who seek guidance every year in case they score less marks and don’t get into their dream college. “The most important thing to remember is that this is not the end of the world. There are several colleges and universities in the city and country that offer the same course as your ‘ideal college’ without a high cut-off mark. All you need to do is look for those colleges and work towards getting into one,” he says.
 Don’t limit yourself to just one programme or course, he adds. “One must explore and broaden their horizon and not just restrict themselves to just one college and one course,”   says, adding, “For all you know, you may do better at some other college that you had originally considered.”
 
 
 
 Kiran says that even today, several parents pressurise and push their children into a course that they wish them to pursue, without even asking their wards what they want to do in life. “It is really sad to see sometimes that in this day and age, students are being forced into courses by their parents, against their wish. That must be discouraged, because the student will never be able to fulfill the pressure that has been imposed on him or her, either through the society or through his or her family,” adds Kiran.
 
 
 
 While there are several students who take rejection to heart and are unable to turn the situation around, one must take it as a challenge. “Just because you didn’t get more marks, it doesn’t mean you are less of an achiever. Rejections make you challenge yourself. It should be more of a motivation than a way to be dejected,” Kiran sums up.
 
