PANAJI: An Indian immigrant who moved to the US with his widowed mother and three siblings, when he was just 15, is living the American Dream. Having been elected the president of the  , 62-year-old   is now set to help others realise their dreams.

 
 Born in Mumbai to a Goan father and Colombian mother, Cordeiro's grandparents stayed in Goa all their lives while he, along with his siblings, attended Cathedral & John Connon School in the city until 1971 when they moved to the US.
 
 
 
 
 I have had football blood in my veins for as long as I can remember. With a Colombian mother and a Goan father, nothing less is expected," Cordeiro, a former Goldman Sachs executive, told TOI in an exclusive interview.
 
 Cordeiro takes over as the president during a difficult time for US Soccer. The US men's national team's failure to qualify for the   in Russia led to the resignation of Sunil Gulati, another Indian, and now presents Cordeiro with a chance to set right the structural problems underpinning that failure.
 
 "While the top of the US Soccer pyramid has prospered, this success has not been felt equally across our federation, especially at the grassroots. In addition, after years of impressive gains, our growth has stalled. We've plateaued," said Cordeiro, who was the US Soccer's vice-president for the past two years.
 
 As head of the US Soccer—which has an astonishing 4.5 million registered members—Cordeiro will enjoy a celebrated place in world football. He is already a member of the influential FIFA Stakeholders Committee and  , the body that governs the sport in North America.
 
 "I've dedicated the past 10 years of my life to USSF as an unpaid volunteer because I'm a passionate lifelong fan of the game and believe we can take the sport to new heights in America," said Cordeiro.
 
 Cordeiro's father—Pedrito Francisco Souza Cordeiro—and his six siblings were all born in   in North Goa. His father passed away in a car accident in the summer of 1967, while returning to Goa by road from Bombay, now Mumbai. His uncle, Albert Souza Cordeiro, is the only sibling still alive and resides in Saligao to this day.
 
 "I visit India often, most recently last May. It's been two years since I've been to Goa and have several cousins residing in various states," said Cordeiro.
 
 Cordeiro was victorious in the first contested US Soccer presidential election since 1998, winning the majority vote in an eight-candidate field, which also featured two-time Olympic gold medalist and World Cup winner Hope Solo, leading corporate attorney  , besides retired footballers like Kathy Carter Kyle Martino and Eric Wynalda.
 
