PUNE: The state government on Friday issued a notification giving a go-ahead to the revenue department and police to impound the properties of builder D S Kulkarni, aka  , and his wife, Hemanti, arrested in a cheating case.

 Following the notification, the authorities will be seizing 276 bank accounts of DSK, his wife and son. A total of 124 land parcels, 46 vehicles, including imported cars, and two other properties would also be seized. The seizure would be executed in the next few days.
 
 The district revenue authorities have received the notification. But the city police are yet to get it.
 
 DSK and his wife Hemanti were arrested on February 17 for cheating many people investing money in their company. A case against the couple and their son, Shirish, was registered in October 2017 at the Shivajinagar police station.
 
 Along with the provisions of cheating and criminal breach of trust, police had invoked provisions of the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act, 1999. DSK and Hemanti are currently lodged in the   central prison.
 
 According to the provisions of the MPID Act, the state government had told the district administration and the police to check the properties of the accused persons. A collective report was prepared by the district administration on the properties of the DSK and it was submitted to the state government for further action.
 
 Based on this report, the state government issued the notification, a senior police officer said. These properties can be auctioned now.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (economics) Nilesh More said the police had sent a report on the properties in the name of DSK’s son, Shirish, too. “His bail application will be heard on June 5,” he said.
 
 The claimants in the cheating case will receive their share from the sale of the properties to be seized. But depositors will come last when the auction happens. Banks and financial institutions will have the first claim.
 
 A senior police officer told TOI that majority of the 124 land parcels in the name of DSK and his companies were mortgaged with banks. The family has only two ‘clean’ land parcels.
 
 The land parcels are in Phursungi, Hadapsar, Baner, Mahabaleshwar, Perne, Ratnagiri, Miraj, Malegaon and different places of Purandar district. The large chunk of land parcels is at Phursungi.
 
 Out of the total 46 vehicles to be confiscated, the police have seized 17, including imported cars and a motorcycle.
 
 So far, about 5000 investors had submitted their complaint applications to the Economic Offenses Wing of the city police and the collective amount of cheating is estimated to be Rs480 crore.
 
 
