Jaipur/Surat: The family of the woman, who along with her 11-year-old daughter, was allegedly raped and killed by a 27-year-old labour contractor, met the superintendent of police, Sikar. They urged him to lodge a case against Abdul Majjid, woman’s husband. Surat police, earlier this month, had arrested one Harsh Sahai Gurjar from Sawai Madhopur for the crime and lodged a first information report (FIR) against three others.

 However, the victim’s family in Sikar have now raised doubts on the role of Abdul Majjid, the deceased’s husband who hails from Bundi. “We met Sikar SP Vinit Kumar and asked him to probe under what circumstances our daughter first went missing from her in-laws’ home. Why was our son-in-law Abdul Majjid mum for the first 15 days when she and her daughter were missing and filed a missing complaint after that. It is only after this incident that we came to know that they were sold to a man for Rs 35,000,” said the deceased’s father.
 
 “Police should investigate if my daughter was harassed by her in-laws and also under what circumstances she left her home. They need to investigate if Abdul Majjid has any role in selling our daughter,” the father added. The woman had reportedly left home seven months ago.
 
 “The family approached the SP office. We will send their memorandum to Surat police since the whole case is under investigation by them. We will also share the address and other details of Abdul Majjid with them for their investigation,” said a senior officer from Sikar.
 
 Gurjar had bought the girl and her mother from a person in Rajasthan for Rs35,000 and taken them to Surat to work as bonded labourers in his marble fitting contract business. However, Gurjar, a sex maniac, started raping the woman and later strangled her to death when she started objecting to his advances in March. 
 
 Gurjar then inflicted severe torture on the 11-year-old and killed her too. He dumped the girl's body on Jiav-Budia Road in Pandesara on April 5 night. The mother's body was found about 1.5 km away four days later. 
 
 Ahmedabad crime branch had cracked the case from the CCTV footage of a sole under-construction building in the area and nabbed Gurjar from Gangapur on April 19.
 
 
