VEREM: A little over 20 years ago, a small family-run shipyard took shape on Divar island. The owner, Ratnakar Dandekar had no inkling that one day Aquarius Fibreglass Shipyard would play a key role in the Indian Navy’s circumnavigation exploits.

 The shipyard had never built a sailing yacht, but when the   approached Dandekar to build INSV Mhadei, Dandekar grabbed the opportunity. And when the Indian Navy was looking for a new vessel for Navika Sagar Parikrama, Aquarius Fibreglass was once again picked to build a capable ocean going sloop. The rest is history.
 
 INSV Mhadei has completed two circumnavigations and has weathered nature’s fury to return to harbour every time. Her sister ship did the same on Monday when six women officers of the Indian Navy returned after completing the first ever circumnavigation by Indian women.
 
 “I must commend Aquarius Shipyard for building an extremely trustworthy and reliable boat that took care of us for over eight months,” said lieutenant commander  , the skipper of INSV  .
 
 “It is always a nice feeling when you see a boat that you have built come back to the port safely,” Dandekar said. “I feel satisfied because it shows I have done the best I could. Tarini is coming back after a circumnavigation where it encountered the elements of nature.”
 
 While INSV Mhadei and INSV Tarini are based on the   56 design, Dandekar has also built the Thuriya, a sail boat that will sail in the 50th anniversary of the Sunday Times Golden Globe Race. The Sunday Times Golden Globe Race is a solo, non-stop sail around the globe where the participants will have to navigate using nothing but the sun, stars, sextant and magnetic compass.
 
 “Thuriya and Tarini are a complete make in India project. For Goa’s industry, if my shipyard can do it, any shipyard can do it. It is a big confidence building effort,” Dandekar said.
 
 He hopes that soon, his company and other shipyards will be able to export sailing yachts to African and   nations.
 
 “For Aquarius, after building Mhadei, we have been building a lot of bigger boats, motor boats, RIBS for the navy. So we have actually grown a lot after Mhadei. For me, I want to do bigger boats and to broaden our profile,” he said.
 
 
