NEW DELHI: BJP chief   on Saturday stood by the party’s decision to stake claim to form a government in Karnataka, saying the “unprincipled” alliance between Congress and JD(S) was subversion of the mandate.

 “We wanted to highlight the unholy alliance. They ran down each other during the campaign. In fact, JD(S) would attack only Congress. We’ve achieved our purpose,” Shah said. “We contested Karnataka polls on two issues — one was Modi government’s performance and the other, Siddaramaiah government’s failure. People responded favourably and voted BJP.
 
 “We had the mandate, but Congress engaged in manipulation to subvert it,” he said, claiming that JD(S) contested the polls against Congress and rarely spoke about BJP. He rebutted Congress’s allegation that BJP tried to pay Rs 100 crore in bribes to organise defections. “The outcome would have been different if the accusation was correct,” Shah said. “We’ve been accused of horse-trading. But the fact is they have sold their entire stable,” he said in reference to Congress’s offer the CM’s post to H D Kumaraswamy.
 
 Shah also said Congress and JD(S) did not trust the loyalty of their MLAs. “That’s why they were kept captive. Why would you do this if you were not scared of your MLAs?” he said. “We had appealed for conscience vote from MLAs who won on anti-Congress platform. But stay in five-star hotels clouded their conscience.” Shah agreed the top court’s order curtailing the window to prove majority was crucial. However, he said BJP would never criticise the judiciary. “We welcome their order It is Congress that practises double standards. It attacked them for the Loya case order but praised them over the Karnataka trust order.
 
 Shah denied that BJP would work to topple the Congress-JD(S) coalition but added, “Experience shows that such unprincipled alliances don’t last long. They never have. People cannot cope with the pressure of criticism of opportunistic tie-ups. (Congress) should be allowed to rejoice this moment. But let one year pass, too much of water would have flown down the Cauvery.” 
 
