BHOPAL: Startled by the nail biting fight between the traditional rivals - Congress and   - for two assembly seats, BJP veteran and former chief minister   said that bypoll has changed the 'politics of development' to 'battle of caste, money and muscle power', which would exert influence on the forthcoming assembly elections. 

 "The recent bypoll in Madhya Pradesh is not just a political fight between two parties but a battle of Jativad (casteism). In the ensuing assembly polls, political parties vying for authority will use muscle and money power to clinch victory and only winnability through caste support will be synonymous to success," reacted Gaur on BJP's rout in the keenly contested bypolls in   and  , on Thursday.
 
 The BJP veteran's remarks indirectly point out the muscle and money power used by the political parties involved during the bypolls. The Congress had accused BJP of misusing government machinery to woo tribal and Dalit voters.
 
 It was also alleged that government schemes worth more than Rs 1,500 crore were announced by the ruling party for the voters while the political parties spent over Rs 100 crore each for the two constituencies during campaigning, sources said. 
 
 "There was a major shuffle noticed in the poll strategy of the saffron party when the BJP inducted three ministers in the   cabinet, all from other backward class (OBC). One cabinet and two ministers of state were also assigned areas under influence of their castes to woo the public, but Congress routed them in their home turf," said a senior RSS functionary. In the forthcoming assembly polls, the political parties involved in caste politics will have to field candidates of majority caste to gain influence, Gaur said. Only those having influence in their caste and among voters will contest elections, he said. "Politics has changed. Madhya Pradesh will witness a new trend in the coming elections. Days are over for the politics of ethics and principal. Parties will have to choose candidates on the basis of their caste. Those in majority will get the ticket. Those having muscle and money power will rule the state," said the BJP veteran.
 
 Scindia single-handedly fought the battle to save his bastion. He was dubbed as Abhimanyu but, he emerged as Arjun, breaking the Chakravyuh formed by the Opposition party
 
 
