 Sports Club’s winning streak in the new year came to an abrupt end but the former champions had themselves to blame as   registered a 1-0 victory at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Tuesday.
 
  With three victories on the trot, Churchill had hit an unexpected purple patch in the   that helped them climb up the ladder. Against Neroca FC, they saw a majority of the ball and were the better side for large spells. They lacked the cutting edge, though, and conceded a lame penalty which Felix Chidi converted for the only goal of the match in the 22nd minute.
  
  The victory, after two consecutive losses at home, brought Neroca FC back in the title race, particularly with leaders Minerva Punjab FC and East Bengal both dropping points in an earlier clash in Kolkata. Neroca now have 24 points from 13 matches, two fewer than Minerva Punjab. And although Minerva now have two matches in hand, Neroca will sleep well tonight knowing they are not too far behind.
  
  As for Churchill, if it’s any consolation, relegation contenders – and their biggest rival in the drop race – Chennai City FC are still below them.
  
  It could have been so much better for Churchill. They were up against a side that looked fatigued from extensive travel. The visitors had a couple of players missing too, most notably goalkeeper and captain Lalit Thapa. His replacement Loitongbam Bishorjit Singh was nervy at the start but Churchill’s first real attempt on goal came only in the 67th minute, allowing the newbie to grow in confidence.
  
  Even the goal that Churchill conceded could, or rather should, have been avoided. When Subhash Singh tried to work his way past Wayne Vaz inside the box on the right, his heavy touch saw the ball move harmlessly out of the goal-line. Wayne should have let it pass but instead pulled him back. Subhash fell to the ground, and the referee immediately pointed to the spot.
  
  Felix stepped up to take the penalty and calmly slotted it past the goalkeeper. For the rest of the match, he was rarely tested as Neroca fell back and defended deep, many times with all their players crowding the box.
  
  With so many men at the back, it made no sense for Churchill to keep crossing from the flanks. Every time they did that, either Gouramangi Singh or captain Varney Kallon headed away. Substitute Nedo Turkovic, a regular forward, also helped in defending the citadel.
  
  Churchill tried. Ogba Kalu and M Britto both went close with headers. Kalu was also unlucky when his close-range effort was turned away, and Eldor Hussain missed from handshaking distance.
  
  In the end, this was not going to be Churchill’s night. For all their possession and crosses into the box, they got nothing in return. Neroca won the penalty, converted, and then defended smart. Such is  .
