an elaborate engagement ceremony last week, ' ' singer   finally got married to software engineer   on Friday. The wedding was organised at a popular five-star hotel in the city. Ankit’s baraat assembled at Civil Lines and proceeded to the wedding venue. Going traditional, Ankit chose a bagghi over a luxury car for his baraat. "Bahut lambe samay se meri wedding ki reports media mein aati rahi hain. Aaj dekhiye meri shaadi sach mein ho rahi hai," Ankit laughed out loud as he spoke to us. 

 
  
  Friends dancing in the baraat g (BCCL/ Pics: AS Rathor, IB Singh and Akash & Aman films)
 
 Dancing in the baraat were Ankit’s close friends, TV actor   and model Helena, who came from Mumbai especially for the wedding. "Ankit is my closest buddy and I had to be here for his wedding. Bahut samay baad kisi baraat mein main itna naacha hoon," said Shraman. 
 Dressed in a golden and maroon sherwani, Ankit also enjoyed the dance performance of his friends and family in the baraat. He whistled loudly as his parents RK Tiwari and Suman also shook a leg in their younger son’s baraat. 
 
  
  Pallavi coming for the jaimaal and Ankur and Swati (BCCL/ Pics: AS Rathor, IB Singh and Akash & Aman films)
 
  
  Shraman Jain and Helena and Suman and RK Tiwari dancing at the venue (BCCL/ Pics: AS Rathor, IB Singh and Akash & Aman films)
 
  
  (L-R) Ankur, Ankit, Suman, RK Tiwari and Swati (BCCL/ Pics: AS Rathor, IB Singh and Akash & Aman films)
 
 "Mujhe dance karna bilkul bhi nahi aata par aaj Ankit ki shaadi hai toh dance karna toh banta hi hai," said Ankit’s elder brother Ankur, who was given a company in the thumkas by wife Swati. 
 Meanwhile, Pallavi looked gorgeous in an orange and red lehenga as she walked in for the jaimaal ceremony. The celebrations reached its peak when the newlyweds also got on to the dance floor and danced to 'Sanam Re' and 'Dil Chori Ho Gaya'. 
 The reception will be held in Kanpur tomorrow and the couple plans on hosting another one in Mumbai later. 
 — Jha.Sumit@timesgroup.com
 
 
