NEW DELHI: Former India footballer   believes that even though   have made their way to the top of the   points-table, they will have their work cut out against fourth-placed   when the two teams meet in the first semifinal on Wednesday. Bhutia, writing in his column for TOI today said the small size of the Balewadi Stadium in Pune might trouble Bengaluru’s best.

 
 
 
 
 “It has boiled down to the top four in the Hero Indian Super League. The top four teams have been more consistent than the rest and that’s why they have been able to seal a spot in the play-offs. On the surface the first semifinal between FC Pune City and JSW Bengaluru FC may appear a bit tilted towards BFC. But despite BFC having been the best team so far, this one will be an entirely different ball game,” Bhutia wrote.
 
 
 
 
 “If you look at the history of matches played at the Balewadi, you will find out that teams who love to widen it up and stretch it to the flanks struggle a bit at the smaller sized Balewadi Stadium. BFC are a team for whom Sunil Chhetri and Udanta Singh would love to utilise the width of the field to the full advantage though they can feel suffocated a bit.”
 
 The last time these two teams faced each other in the group stage, Bengaluru won, although Bhutia thinks Pune have improved a lot since. He also pointed out that Bengaluru FC will be wary of Emiliano Alfaro and Marcelo Pereira, who have combined for a staggering 17 goals this season.
 
 
 
 “History will also point out that BFC had emerged victorious 3-1 when the two teams had met earlier in Pune during the group stages. But there were lessons learnt from that match and Pune need to be defensively compact at the back,” Bhutia said.
 
 “The smaller size of the ground in Pune is also a sort of hindrance for the home team as they love to attack, and with flair. The combination of Emiliano Alfaro and Marcelo Pereira has created havoc sharing 17 goals between themselves and containing them is going to a challenging task.”
 
 This is the first time that Pune have made it to the final four of the  , and even though odds will favour Bengaluru, Bhutia things Pune have what it takes to surprise their opposition at their home ground.
 
 “Having made it to the semifinals for the first-time ever, Pune will be desperate to make it all the more tough for favourites BFC and I feel can even manage to sneak in a win, though a draw seems to be a likely result,” Bhutia said.
 
 “Pune need to be cautious and not let the rush of adrenalin get to them. In such matches, there are times when you tend to feel bit more excited and lose the plot. The quality strike force that defines FC Pune City, they are bound to create chances against any team. BFC have been tight at the back too.”
 
