MEERUT: Such is the stature and lure of sugarcane crop among   in western   that even marriages are settled on the basis of land under the cane cultivation, a farmer said pompously, without dropping a hint of remorse over the fact that he has not been paid his previous dues by a mill. For Jats, an upper caste community, it is a ‘shahi’ (royal) crop, which decides their status in the society, notwithstanding the arrears of mills which now run into thousands of crores.
 
  Jaipal Singh Chaudhary, a farmer with 20 bigha land in Mandawali village of Bijnor, cannot think of anything other than sugarcane despite having a debt of Rs 90,000. He sells his produce to Bilai sugar mill, which has the worst payment record in the region. Out of Rs 2.4 lakhs that the mill owes him, he has received only Rs 80,000 so far.
  
  But, despite the hardships, Singh never tried vegetable or fruit crops, which he said is not the domain of the upper caste Jats. “Our forefathers have been involved in sugarcane cultivation. How can we move to any other crop? This is against our tradition. We are known by this crop,” he says.
  
  Jats in western UP feel that it is “below their status” to abandon sugarcane crop in favour of alternative options.
  
  Anirudh Saroha, a farmer in  , says, “It is a shahi (royal) crop that does not demand much attention. And, at the time of harvest, one just needs to employ cheap labour and get it harvested. Sugarcane is linked to our honour and status of our family. Even marriages are settled on the basis of how much land is under cane cultivation. We know that the payment structure is very bad, but then we cannot forego our honour because of that.”
  
  When contacted, soil scientist and director (Research), Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel University, Dr Ashok Kumar said, “There is one more factor involved as to why sugarcane is favourite among a section of farmers. It is not a labour intensive crop. Rains or thundershowers have little effect on it. Then, unlike vegetables which require too much of nurturing and attention and need to be safeguarded against animals, sugarcane are less problematic.”
  
   , another farmer from Thanabhawan town of Shamli, echoed similar sentiment. “Market for sugarcane is easily available. There are a lot of sugar mills or collection centres. Regarding payment, sooner or later, it arrives.”
