In an alarming reflection of the city’s air pollution levels, the WHO’s global air pollution database has ranked Mumbai as the fourth most polluted megacity in the world, up from last year’s fifth place. The state capital has also been ranked the 63rd most polluted city among 859 considered by the WHO around the world. The study considered PM2.5 (particulate matter of diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) and PM10. PM2.5 is more dangerous than PM10. The period considered for the study was 2010 to 2016.

 Among 10 global megacities (habitation of above 14 million), Mumbai, with an average PM10 level of 104ìg/m3 (microgram per cubic metre), came after Delhi (which topped the list), Cairo and Dhaka. Shockingly, it was found to be more polluted than Beijing, which is always in news for its terrible smog-laden days, accompanied with pictures of people moving around in masks. The WHO’s report stated that 9 in 10 people in the world breathe polluted air. In a statement, it said 7 million people die every year because of outdoor and household air pollution. “Ambient air pollution alone caused some 4.2 million deaths in 2016, while household air pollution from cooking with polluting fuels and technologies caused an estimated 3.8 million deaths in the same period,” it said.
 
  
 “Mumbai’s air pollution is nearly as bad as Beijing’s, but the city is not paying the required attention to this problem and that is alarming. It is time Mumbai woke up to the situation and took responsibility and react with the sort of urgency Bejing has reacted and how even Delhi is preparing to respond to its growing pollution,” said Sunil Dahiya, senior campaigner, Greenpeace. Quite a few factors contribute to Mumbai’s high air pollution levels. “Construction activity accounts for about 30% of dust particles, followed by vehicular emissions. In addition, open burning of garbage occurs in the city, adding to pollution,” said Rakesh Kumar, director, National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute (NEERI).
 
 “Nevertheless, the Indian subcontinent cannot be directly compared with other regions of the world. Being in a tropical country, Indian cities have a lot of background pollutants like natural dust. This is why Indian cities have recorded higher level of pollutants (on the WHO list).”
 
 In Maharashtra, polluted cities include Pune, Navi Mumbai and Nagpur (not in that order; the global rank of a city based on its average PM2.5 level is different from that based on PM10). For Mumbai, WHO used data provided by the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board from its monitoring stations in   and   and monitoring stations by System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).
 
 More than 90% of air pollution-related deaths occur in low- and middle-income countries, mainly in Asia and Africa, followed by low- and middle-income countries in the eastern   region, Europe and the Americas. WHO highlighted that air pollution is mainly responsible for non-communicable diseases (NCDs), causing an estimated one-quarter (24%) of all adult deaths from heart disease, 25% from stroke, 43% from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and 29% from lung cancer.
 
