KOCHI: Four months after the launch of construction work of Vyttila flyover, preparatory works of yet another mega project, the Kundanoor flyover has started near BTH Sarovram hotel, Maradu.

 Like Vyttila, Kundanoor is another major traffic interception on National Highway-66 that connects the southern and northern districts of the state.
 
 
 PWD (NH division) chief engineer Suresh PG said the preparatory works, including removal of underground cables, KSEB posts and covering of open drains to increase width of service roads to facilitate smooth movement of vehicles, have begun.
 
 “Currently, we have put up barricades for cutting down trees near the service roads. Various government departments, city police and local bodies will jointly conduct an inspection on Tuesday evening and take a final decision,” said Suresh.
 
 Local body officials familiar with the project said that PWD showed them the drawings and a video demonstration of the flyover project.
 
 “The opinions and objections raised by oil companies, including BPCL regarding the construction work is yet to be analysed. Moreover, there are certain regarding the width of service roads. While service road on one side of has sufficient width to divert traffic, the road on the other side is narrow. After the joint inspection a decision on how to increase the width of the service road will be taken,” said a local body official.
 
 Meanwhile, the city traffic police are planning traffic diversions to facilitate the work. According to the police, as construction works begin at the barricaded locations on the NH-66, vehicles headed towards northern regions of   will be diverted through Kochi-Dhanushkodi highway (NH-49) to reach Pettah and Seaport-Airport Road.
 
 “From Pettah, vehicles will enter the   Road from North Fort Gate and S N Junction,” said a police official.
 
 However, residents warn of the traffic congestion along Pettah - Irumpanam Junction, when traffic gets diverted through this stretch.
 
 “The narrow Pettah bridge will turn out to be a bottle neck. Though there is a mini bypass near Gandhi Square which connects Vaikom road with Kundanoor Junction, the absence of a crucial link between Karingachira and Tripunithura (proposed Tripunithura bypass) makes it impossible to provide a smooth and alternate road link between Kundanoor Junction and Sea Port-Airport Road,” said Gopi Chittarayi, an automobile mechanic at North Fort gate.
 
 The Maradu municipality authorities, who are carefully watching the progress of work has cautioned PWD about the possible traffic congestion at Kundanoor Junction once the construction works gain momentum.
 
 “Two of the city’s major hotels, which are venue for high  , conferences and meetings are located near the Junction. When too many people come down to these venues there will be traffic congestion. While planning traffic diversion the authorities should consider this aspect,” said Maradu municipal chairperson, Suneela Siby.
 
 The municipality also asked the PWD to complete works of the parallel   Junction and Nettoor. Suneela said opening of this route will help in traffic diversion.
 
 “Vehicles heading to Cherthala, Alappuzha and other southern regions can take this route. Motorists can proceed towards Nettoor,   without proceeding through the national highway,” said Siby.
 
