LUCKNOW: Anna Hazare , the face of the 2011 anti-corruption movement, who is preparing to storm Delhi on March 23 for implementation of the Jan Lokpal Bill, said here on Tuesday that “there will not be another Arvind Kejriwal”.
 
 
 Hazare, who disassociated himself from the Delhi chief minister after the latter decided to form a political party in 2012, said that nobody who joins Hazare’s movement now, will join politics. “I have taken affidavits from those who want to associate with me, saying that they will never join politics. If they do, I can take them to court because I have their affidavits. There will not be another  ,” he told TOI during a two-day visit to Lucknow to gather support for his ‘satyagraha’.
 
 Hazare has expressed his dislike for politics for years now though he has on occasions extended support to politicians like Mamata Banerjee. Even though Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party have refrained from saying anything negative about Hazare after they parted ways, his ministers have been heckled when they visited Hazare in Ralegaon Siddhi.
 
 ‘I know they are blocking information’
 
 This time, Hazare said, he would not allow any political person on stage with him, “definitely not Arvind (Kejriwal)”. “There will be no political person on stage with me this time. Definitely not Arvind because he is doing wrong things and not even   because he, too, has a political party,” Hazare said.   is also a former colleague of the anti-corruption movement who found the Swaraj India party.
 
 The Gandhian also accused the ruling   in the Centre of blocking information related to his satyagraha. “I know they are blocking information. I have been touring the country for the past two and a half months but there is no information about it. This party, which I rate two on a scale of 10, has failed to fulfill its promises to the people. I wanted to give the government time to settle down but now that I have written 22 letters to the PM on the Lokpal issue, on farmers etc and not received a single reply, I have decided to start my andolan,” he said.
 
