Mysuru: Though voters will be allowed to know to whom they have voted for in the upcoming assembly election, authorities have warned of penal action against those making false allegations on the functioning of the election equipment, said deputy commissioner  .

 The Election equipment that has been brought from different parts of the country are being tested of accuracy by the authorities. The   machines will be used only if they pass necessary tests and the rest wouldn’t be used in the election.
 
 
 
  
 
 On the day of the polls too, their accuracy will be tested by conducting a mock poll involving agents from political parties between 6 am and 7 am, when voting commences. This time, along with polling and control units, Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail ( ) device is being used along with a display unit. It will help voters to confirm to whom they have voted as a slip is generated and displayed for 7 seconds before being dropped into a container.
 
 A voter can complain to the presiding officer if the paper vote is not displayed. Upon verification, a test vote will be conducted in the presence of the agents. If their allegations are found true, the polling will be stopped. In case if it is not true, a case will be filed against the person and a maximum punishment for it would be six months in jail, said Randeep, who is also the district election officer. 
 
 Randeep claimed a voter has been penalized on similar charges during the recent Gujarat assembly elections.
 
 62,351 new voters
 
 Special revision of electoral lists in January has added 62,351 new voters in Mysuru. Randeep said as per draft list, the district had 23,69,987 voters but after revision, the figure stands at 24,32,338. A total of 81,314 voters were added and about 18,963 names were dropped from the list in the latest revision. Of the total 62,351 new voters, 25,598 are youngsters. As many as 48 polling booths will be relocated to nearby places including 16 in   segment.
 
 Meanwhile, continuous revision of the electoral list has started and it would go on till a week before the date of nomination commences.
 
