CHENNAI: Some coffee lovers like the sweet taste of   while others prefer the bitter   flavour but for new study Wildlife Conservation Society (WCS) researchers have taken the question to unlikely coffee aficionados: Birds.

 Earlier research showed that shade-grown coffee, typically Arabica, is host to a substantial level of biodiversity but with global coffee plantations switching to Robusta beans, which needs intensive sunlight, there were concerns about loss of the unique biodiversity. So when a team led by   scientist Krithi Karanth surveyed bird diversity in coffee agro forests in the Western Ghats, they were in for a surprise — Robusta plantations too boasted of a substantial biodiversity and supported higher more number of birds, including frugivores (those which feed on fruits). 
 
 Besides, the disease-resistant Robusta plantations with its minimal requirement of pesticides are becoming a safe home for the birds. 
 
 A total of 79 forest dependent species were found by the researchers, including three   red listed species such as the Alexandrine parakeet, grey-headed bulbul and the Nilgiri wood pigeon. The plantations also harbour a variety of mammals, amphibians and tree species, the study showed. 
 
 While Robusta supported more number of numbers,   plantations have drawn birds a larger variety of avian species. 
 
 Since coffee production and the kind of bean grown affects agroforestry trends, the study gains importance for wildlife conservationists, who ensure that biodiversity, is not affected because of commercial interest in a type of bean. “Coffee plantations play a complementary role to protected areas in the country like India, where less than 4% of land is officially protected. Therefore building partnerships with private individual and corporate land holders will provide the much needed safe passage and additional habitat for birds and other species,” said Karanth.
 
 Analysing the data, co-researcher   from the National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis, University of Tennessee, said: “An encouraging result of the study is that coffee production in the Western Ghats, a global biodiversity hotspot, can be a win-win for both birds and farmers.”
 
 
