We enter 2018 with a baggage — Mcdonaldisation of IITs, IIMs and CFTIs, strangulation of deemed universities, commoditisation of entrance exams and admissions, taxation of auxiliary   services, trivialisation of teaching profession, discrimination among institutions and malnutrition in policy making are a few to name. This is reflected in the rush for school admissions, post-admission pressure for school students chasing marks in all exams, mindless mechanisms for professional college admissions, dwindling respect for teachers, ivory-tower elitism of premier institutions and challenging employment options among others. The art of public policy is to ensure a smooth interface that recognises the coherent synergy of different stakeholders who contribute to education in significantly different measure. Stereotypes and rhetoric have no place in public policy discourse as an enlightened public expects at least five transformational changes in the education sector in 2018:

 Reintroducing learning in rural schools
 
 My good friend Prof R Vaidyanathan used to say that every wife wants her kids to be more intelligent than her husband and hence puts them in the best of the schools. The Right to Education Act guarantees free and compulsory schooling for children till the age of 14 resulting in children successfully completing elementary schooling. Enrolment through entitlement is necessary but not sufficient for enlightenment on elevation. The Aser 2016 report found that 25% of Class VIII students in rural India were unable to read a Class II-level text and a third were unable to solve a three-digit by one-digit division sum. Mere elevation in grade and completion of high school guarantees schooling but not learning. 
 
 Solution: Need outcome based three-year realistic budget allocation than ritualistic annual budget allocation. 
 
 Capitation antidote for engineering colleges
 
 Admission to professional colleges, both medical and engineering institutions, are infested with ivory tower isolation at top, collusive cash-cows in the middle and meaningless enrollment at the bottom. The ivory tower JEE-Advanced possibly ignores the fact that almost 90% of the students are anyway amongst the toppers in the JEE-Main. Why then a separate JEE-Advanced is a question eternally begging for an obvious answer? One of the main reasons for JEE-Main-cum-Advanced entrance exams, was to curtail the estimated `24,000 crore coaching industry. But, it has only further accelerated its growth by ignoring the school exam scores. In addition, private universities (including deemed universities) have their own revenue spinners aka entrance exams.
 
 Estimates put the annual black money generation through capitation fee till the pre-NEET period at `6,000 crore. While NEET has arrested this to a large extent in medical admissions, engineering colleges require a capitation antidote. The National Testing Agency must go one step forward and administer an online national admissions portal with unique identity for each institution/state. Students need to apply for admission to as many institutions based on JEE-Main and high school scores at a pre-determined weightage. Such a transparent admission portal with digital payment solutions will ensure that merit is not compromised and no fees other than the notified amount is collected. Submission of annual admission returns will detect any deviation either in merit or payment pattern and erring institutions need to be hauled for punitive action. 
 
 Solution: Nationalise JEE to eradicate capitation fee. 
 
 Producing bright teachers
 
 Though the present policy of a four-year integrated teacher education programme is visionary, it needs initial policy fuel to attract a large number of bright students after high-school education. Currently, the choice of teacher education programmes is done almost by those who have failed exploring alternate options. To attract top quality recruits, the central and state governments must provide full funding to the top 10,000 students of the proposed national level test for teacher education programmes to pursue the four-year integrated BEd programme. These students should also be committed towards work in government schools for a minimum of five years. This scheme must be operational for five years and the number can be further increased by encouraging accelerated tax incentives for corporate donors to this scheme. 
 
 Solution: Incentivise to intellectualise teacher education.
 
 Promoting collaborative research
 
 A challenging approach is essential for research funding in universities and higher education institutions. The current system of research funding is biased towards IITs and other premier public institutions while despite capacity, progressive private institutions are marginalised. There are geo-political and socio-economic problems of gargantuan proportions in critical sectors like water, health, sanitation, energy, security and defence and need research and development. The current cherry-picking approach of research funding has resulted in successful solutions as an exception only as the majority has failed to be translational. Cherry-picking needs to be replaced by disaggregated crowd-sourcing. A grand challenge in each area needs to be identified and solutions broken into small research deliverables to be done by more than one research institutions. A lead institution based on their strengths under which a group of institutions should collaboratively work to solve each grand challenge. Mere chest-beating that only IITs and CFTIs can do research will result only in marginal output and drive down research productivity measured in terms of successful solutions. 
 
 Solution: Collaboratively connecting dots to the finishing line. 
 
 Ushering in new policies
 
 Tweaking the iconic public policy visionary, Nani A Palkhivala’s words a little, public policy space is occupied by a five-year government in a four-year action time with three-year period for bureaucrats guided by two-year committees’ recommendations with one-year extension with a hope that daily problems are solved by citizens themselves. Higher education is no exception to this. Introducing the much expected New Education Policy, universalisation of minority rights as per Justcie P B Gajendrakadkar’s suggestion, freeing progressive higher and school educational institutions from the regimental regulatory shackles, non-discrimination amongst educational institutions and restoration of pride in teaching profession are some of the ideal gifts that 2018 can give.
 
 Solution: The desired education policy gifts need to be arranged, packed and delivered before the mood shifts to populist electoral policies. Is anybody listening?
 
 (The writer is dean, planning and development,   Deemed University)
 
 
