KANNUR: Kannur is all set for the second anniversary celebration of the   government, which would be inaugurated here on Friday evening by chief minister  . As part of the celebrations, a weeklong mega exhibition, ‘Ponkathir’, showcasing various government schemes for the people will also be organised, said minister for ports  .

 As part of the anniversary, the government is also launching the project of opening help centres in the villages to make sure the information about the government schemes reach the people in time, and this will also be inaugurated at the second anniversary celebration, he said. Along with this a handbook on the government’s financial schemes for the people will be released at the function.
 
 “Our aim is the overall development of the State, and no other considerations will be an obstacle in implementing it,” said the minister.
 
 The help centre, initially being launched in the district, aims to provide the details of the financial support schemes and other benefits provided by the government and it is being implemented with the support of the district administration and the district information office, said the minister. In order to provide the information, the clubs, libraries and cultural centres in the villages will be selected.
 
 The mega exhibition, ‘Ponkathir’ will be inaugurated in the morning by minister for health KK Shailaja. In the exhibition, there will be nearly 180 stalls including over 80 stalls by various government departments.
 
 The local bodies that did exemplary works in waste disposal, water conservation and also health and hygiene will be given ‘Harithakelalam’ award at the function, said the minister.
 
 Further, in a separate function, the chief minister will also officially launch the installation of ePos machines in the ration shops in the State to ensure transparency in the public distribution system (PDS). Also the State-level inauguration of making available the   brand products of the Supplyco via ration shops will be held at the function. He will also inaugurate the fishing harbor at   in Thalassery.
 
