CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday set aside orders passed by a Chandigarh bench of   (CAT), through which the latter had refused to vacate stay on finalization of list for nomination for promotion to IAS from the Haryana civil service.

 With these orders, the UPSC can continue with the selection process. The Haryana government had suggested five names in this regard, which included Dr Asha Sharma, daughter of Haryana education minister   and  , brother of deputy speaker of the Haryana assembly,  .
 
 A division bench comprising Justices   and Rajbir Sehrawat passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by Dr   and one more candidate, who had sought nomination to the coveted services. The HC passed these orders after it was informed that the UPSC in a communiqué had already made it clear that the posts would lapse in case the same remained vacant. The petitioners had approached the the court for quashing the decision of the Chandigarh bench of CAT through which the process of appointment to IAS from non-state civil service Haryana was stalled. The HC had also summoned the entire record pertaining to the selection process.
 
 On December 4, 2017, the Chandigarh bench of CAT had stayed the process of appointing one person to the IAS cadre from among state government employees. Challenging these orders, the petitioners had submitted before the HC that the order was passed by CAT without impleading and hearing him and other affected persons.
 
 Explaining the background of the case, one of the petitioners had submitted that Surinder Singh Dahiya, additional director of state’s agriculture department, had filed an application before CAT, challenging the October 13, 2017, decision of the screening committee that had shortlisted some names for appointment to IAS. Dahiya’s grouse was against Asha Sharma, who happens to be daughter of the state education minister and was recommended for IAS cadre. On his plea, CAT had stayed the selection process.
 
 Counsel for the petitioners had argued that the petitioner had also approached CAT for impleading him as a party and to vacate the stay but the hearing of the case was adjourned. Seeking directions to vacate the stay, the petitioners had submitted that because of the stay, the meeting of UPSC had also been postponed. The petitioner’s main grouse was that they were also among the candidates recommended by the screening committee for further selection but the stay was granted without hearing him.
 
 
