SHIMLA: Under fire from all quarters for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state, chief minister   on Tuesday said that Himachal Pradesh was known for peace and harmony but the recent Kasauli incident was a blot on the functioning of the state police. He said that efforts should be made to ensure that such incidents does not occur in the future.

 On May 1, a team of officials had gone to Mando Matkanada area nea Dharampur in Solan district to remove unauthorized constructions of Narayani Guest House and some other hotels on the directions of the Supreme Court. When the drive was launched, Vijay Singh Thakur, owner of the guest house, opened fire at assistant town planner Shail Bala and killed her while another PWD employee Gulab Singh was injured seriously, who later died at the PGI, Chandigarh, on Sunday. The incident had raised serious questions on the administrative failure and lack of security provided to the team implementing court order. 
 
 Thakur said this while presiding over a review meeting of the home department in Shimla. He directed the state police to ensure law and order situation in the state. He further said that upholding the rule of law and safeguarding the life and property of citizens should be ensured by providing professional policing. Thakur said that ‘Gudiya Helpline’ and ‘Shakti App’ must be monitored professionally so that crime against women could be checked. He added that there was a need to make ‘Hoshiyar Helpline’ more effective so that cases regarding mining, drug abuse and forest mafia could be tackled and guilty booked accordingly. 
 
 The chief minister said that the state police should launch a special awareness campaign regarding drug abuse, violations of Motor Vehicle Act, safety of women, etc. He further said that the police should come down heavily on drunken driving and cancel licences of defaulters. He said that the police should launch a special drive for wearing helmets by two wheelers. He said that effective working of women police stations should be ensured.
 
 The DGP, S R Mardi, said that the state police would come up with a roadmap for making the police force more efficient within 15 days. He said that the department would also come up with new plans and initiatives for combating crimes in an effective manner. 
 
 
