MUMBAI: Thane resident   insisted that they were not informed about the full extent of the risk involved in the new procedure-transcatheter mitral valve repair procedure-to "save" his wife Manju; the cardiologist who flew down from Jaipur for the transcatheter procedure, Dr Ravinder Singh Rao, never met them before the procedure; and the sale papers of the imported valve mentions Rs 1.5 lakh, when they paid Rs 11 lakh for it. 

 Of the Rs 43 lakh medical expenses, Bafna got Rs 12.47 lakh refund from   and another Rs 11 lakh from medical insurance. "We were told the total expense would be Rs 20 lakh, but it ballooned," said Bafna's son-in-law Bharkatiya. 
 
 Bafna said he would never have agreed to the new procedure if he knew of the risks involved. "There wasn't an emergency that needed an immediate fix," he said, showing a picture of his wife smiling into the camera just before the operation on October 25. "In fact, she walked a kilometre from her home to ours every day," said her son-in-law.
 
 But the medical men in the case-Hinduja Hospital's medical director Sanjay Agarwala, cardiac surgeon Kushal Pandey and Singh Rao-disagreed. Pandey, who operated on Manju six years back, insists she was very sick with barely six months to live. "There was no negligence," added Agarwala. The valve failed to deploy but the surgeons saved the day and fixed a mechanical valve, he added.
 
 Singh Rao, who is among the few trained in the new transcatheter method of replacing heart valves, said every procedure carries a risk. "Valves slip away after placement in 20% of these cases. This is valve embolism, a well-documented entity," he said, adding he had waived his charges in the Bafna case. The family claimed they were not forewarned about valve embolism.
 
 Manju had an unusually small mitral valve. This was discovered six years back when she was undergoing an open heart surgery for aortic and mitral valve replacement. Dr Pandey replaced her aortic valve, but couldn't find a mitral valve replacement of the right dimension. "We only repaired the valve," said Dr Pandey.
 
 Manju was normal till six months back when she started feeling breathless again. A second open heart surgery was ruled out as being too risky by Pandey and other specialists in Chennai and Bengaluru whom the family contacted. The family then took up Pandey's suggestion of a transcatheter repair performed by Singh Rao. "We talked to the Jaipur doctor and some of his patients who had their aortic valve fixed using this technique, but he never put us on to a patient who had undergone a mitral valve repair," said Bharkatiya.
 
 Despite repeated attempts by TOI, Singh Rao didn't share the number of mitral valve procedures he has carried out using the new technique. 
 
 
