NAGPUR: The scorching summer will get a bit more harsh for   who begin their month-long fast from May 16. The holy month of   arrives in the peak of summer this year making fasting difficult for expectant mothers, those suffering with diabetes, hypertension and other similar ailments.

 Considered a month of devotion and self-discipline, the rules are strict and stringent punishments are laid out for those who do not follow. “No concessions are given to anybody. The rules are simple. We tell all our brothers and sisters to decide at the time of sehri in the morning, if they can keep the fast or can’t,” says cleric Maulana Haroon Qasmi.
 
 “Islam allows old, ailing, expectant and lactating mothers to not fast during this month. But those who are suffering from minor ailments or lifestyle related diseases have to take this call themselves,” he says.
 
 For those who do not fast during Ramzan, the penalty is to feed two poor people for a month after the holy month is over. While those who break a roza in the middle will have to fast for sixty days after Ramzan. “There is no room for grumbling, getting irritated or remaining listless the entire day if one is fasting. We also advice people to take bath and look neat and clean every day while they are fasting,” Qasmi says.
 
 Those who are taking medicines for diabetes and insulin should consult their doctors at least ten days ahead of   says Dr Rajashri Khot, professor of medicine at IGGMC. “Last year too, we got a lot of patients suffering from both hypo and hyper glycemia. If a patient takes advice before beginning fasting the doses can be adjusted which can prevent glycemia. Even at the time of breaking fast in the evening, many diabetics tend to overindulge which results in hyper glycemia. Timely advice and change in dosage timings can prevent this,” she says. “As this is the peak summer time, even for others I would suggest that they remain in cool places and not exert too much. This is important to prevent dehydration and check excessive urination,” Khot says.
 
 Correct food and the manner of eating it forms the key to comfortable roza. “More of alkaline foods like fruits and vegetables that include bottle gourd, pumpkin, cucumber, lady finger should be consumed,” says nutritionist Meghna Kumare.
 
 Those fasting should maintain the right balance between carbohydrates and protein. “In the morning more proteins should be consumed while at the time of breaking fast more of carbohydrates should be eaten. This helps in delaying the digestion and makes a person feel full,” she says. “It is advisable to drink a lot of water at the time of breaking fast and then have dates, anjeer or munakka. Fried and spicy foods should not be consumed immediately after breaking fast,” Kumare advises.
 
 
