CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Bikram Singh   on Saturday attacked anti-drug   chief ADGP   and   cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu over the report filed in the Punjab and Haryana high court on his alleged role in the drug trade. He called it ‘Sidhu team’s false report’.

 He alleged that the “cooked up report has been put up by Sidhu & Sons” and released by “Bunty and Babli” — referring to Punjab local government minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and his wife Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu.
 
 The former revenue minister also claimed that STF chief was his ‘estranged cousin’. Asked as to how were they related, Majithia said, “Let him (STF head) answer first. Then I’ll speak.”
 
 However, the anti-drug STF head rejected Majithia’s ‘estranged cousins’ claim. The ADGP said, “I do not have any relation with Majithia. He is a cousin of my cousins. Also, I have no contact for decades even with those cousins.”
 
 The SAD leader raised several questions on minister Sidhu quoting parts of the report. He said it was an attempt to dilute Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s apology to him.
 
 “There is nothing new in this report. The case is being monitored by the high court for the past 4-5 years. What has been said by Bunty and Babli has already been adjudicated time and again by courts,” claimed Majithia. He alleged that the STF report was prepared in local bodies minister’s kitchen with assistance from STF head.
 
 The Akali leader said that submitted to the HC, the STF report was still in sealed cover and thus the minister had indulged in contempt of court. When asked whether he would be moving to the court demanding contempt of court proceedings against the minster, Majithia said, “I’ll inform you about every step. I am consulting my lawyers.”
 
 Attacking the local bodies minister, Majithia said, “It is not ‘thoko tali’ (reference to Sidhu’s famous one liner) business. It is not a laughter show. Politics is a serious business. Sidhu wants to leave the  , it seems.”
 
 The SAD leader also said that it was during the SAD-BJP regime that the drug racket case was registered in 2013 and he has not run away from any inquiry. “I have unshakable faith in God and judiciary. India is not a ‘Banana Republic’,” added Majithia.
 
 He said these allegation against him are of that period when the local bodies minister and his wife used to be “in and out of my house”. He also added that the couple should have at least waited for their government to submit reply in the high court on STF’s report.
 
 
