Her earliest memory of the ocean goes back to when she was four years old — she’d held on to her brother’s arm tightly, refusing to let go, as the waves rolled in on a beach in Vizag. She was scared. Little did she know, that 25 years later she would go on to circumnavigate the globe, criss-crossing four oceans. Meet Lt Commander  , who was part of the six-member, all woman team of the  , which made history by circumnavigating the Earth in eight months, on board INS Tarini. Hyderabad Times caught up with the 29-year-old Hyderabadi, and as she got chatting, it felt like we too were on board Tarini, voyaging vicariously. Excerpts.

 
 The idea of an expedition of this kind by Indians was first mooted by retired Vice Admiral Manohar P Awati. He believed that Indians too should circumnavigate the earth in an Indian-made boat. In 2006, the idea was officially accepted. a boat suitable for such a journey was built from scratch and thus,   was born. Since then, two officers of the Indian Navy have circumnavigated the globe. First was Captain  , Shaurya Chakra awardee who was the first Indian to complete his voyage in 2010. But he did so with stops during his voyage. Few years later, Navy decided we should up our game, and so it was Commander  , who did the non-stop circumnavigation over a period of 156 days. Then, to set another record, Navy finally decided to call for an all-women team to carry forward the legacy. And the rest, as they say, is history. 
 
 
 I joined the Navy in 2011, and was always keen on water sports and rigorous training. three years later, in 2014, when they called out for volunteers for this voyage, I thought, why not give it a try? Of the 500 women officers in the Naval force, 30 of us volunteered. I was posted in Port Blair when the call for the selection came in 2015. Incidentally, my parents had come down to visit me, so I packed them off on a vacation to Havelock Island and snuck off to Goa for the selections. after a week-long selection procedure, I was among the six others selected for this prestigious project. But to be honest, I had no clue about ocean sailing. infact, in my initial joining days, I was petrified of swimming in the sea. 
  
  
 
 
 Well, it wasn’t just the fear of swimming in the sea that I had to overcome. At the selection, they told us clearly about all the sacrifices that we had to make for this voyage — both professional and personal. We would be taken out from our primary services in the Navy so that we could concentrate on this completely. That meant not contributing to our units, and therefore, it could be a set back professionally since it affects promotions. In fact, a lot of senior officers advised me against going for the expedition. Navy was also considering giving permanent commission for women, so a voyage could have set me back amongst peers. Personally, a base posting gives you the advantage of being able to rush home if something is wrong. But this called for a two-year commitment; no turning back. I was single at that time, and parents were looking for prospective grooms. Since I would have to be away for two years, my folk thought that it wasn’t such a great idea. Even if they found a good match, how many would be open to the idea of their prospective daughter-in-law going off to the sea for eight months? But I had to think it through and balance it all out and make a decision. My parents did have some reservations but I told them casually, that I need some stories to tell my grandchildren, so let me go make them!
 
 
 we were trained by the best — Captain Donde, the first Indian to do the circumnavigation. He taught us everything from scratch. From navigation, signals, study of stars, we did it all. But the best thing he told us was that the sea knows no gender, so we better learn everything if we want to survive it. 
 
 
 
 It’s an out and out ‘make in India’ boat! Right from selecting the wood, to the kind of equipment on board, we planned everything about her with the boatmakers. When compared to INSV Mhadei, it is more spacious to accommodate a six-member crew. It was tailormade for women sailors. For instance, we thought who needs that 6-feet bunker bed that was on Mahdei? So we made our beds smaller, and that extra space was used up for storage purpose. the kitchen was also made much larger. So yeah, that way it had our touch. We all are very attached to her. in fact, we even celebrated her birthday on board. 
  
  
 
 
  
 (Laughs) Yes! We even cut a cake for her. we used to bake cakes for all special occasions. We celebrated birthdays, Christmas, New Year, crossing the equator, all with cakes! In fact, we would also offer a slice to Varuna, the Indian god of the oceans. so yeah, we had fun that way! We were six girls coming from different culinary backgrounds. So we also did a lot of cooking! None of us started out as great cooks, but the journey demanded that we become good at it. We made dal makhani, chole, dosas, snails, and even pizzas. I don’t think any man at sea would have ever thought of doing this! 
  
  
 
 
 
 Well, I made curd rice the first few days. I mixed it with kandisunni podi. The others were so fascinated seeing Swati (from Vizag) and me eat it. Soon, the podi was being added in every dish, be it dal, rice, or pizza! The gongura pickle and murukus my mom sent along were over in like 20 days, though she had packed enough to last a few months. Mom also had sent some dosa mix, with which I made quick dosas for everyone.
  
  
 
 
 Oh, I missed the ice creams! And, my mom’s home made food. We had no refrigeration in the boat, so we couldn’t store ice-creams and meat. My manipuri teammate packed a lot of dried meat for the journey to keep herself happy. You see, food is one thing that gets you going in the tough conditions.
 
 
 
 Pretty daunting. I mean, mentally. Being on sea for eight months is not a joke. It affected all of us emotionally. Thankfully, I had my best friend Pratibha with me — we had joined the Navy together. So during idle hours we would talk about how we would plan our wedding etc. I even carried some colouring books and sailing books to read. that kept me going. Vijaya was interested in quilling and made some very cool stuff; she even knit sweaters! So, we all found one hobby and pursued it during our free hours. Apart from that we did have our regular chores of keeping watch, repairing, cooking etc., to do. WhatsApp calling was a huge plus, I don’t know what it would have been like if I did not get to speak to my family daily!
 
  
  
 
 
 We use the satellite to get internet connectivity, but that was merely 600 mb per day for the entire crew, and that too was highly expensive. to reduce our consumption, we used a firewall, and were allowed to use only 100 mb a day. I used it mainly to make a video call at sharp 7:30 am IST to speak to my family. I also made calls to my fiance, Rajashekhar with whom I had gotten engaged in July 2017. Once, I even wished a friend — he was so happy that I called him from the sea! one of our teammate’s fiance sent her a special birthday video and we all sacrificed our MB to download it and surprise her. She was very emotional!
 
 
 
 Yes, even now, after the voyage is over, I still feel their presence! When you stay with someone for eight months, there is very little you can hide about your true character! In fact, we could sense easily if something was wrong with the other, if someone was cranky ’cos of no food, or if someone was missing home. We bonded beautifully! In fact you know that myth that when women stay together, their periods sync? It’s true! We all would get our periods one after the other and it was so good to have them take care of me!
  
  
 
 
 Oh yes! It was on January 7, 2018. we were at the Pacific Ocean and it clearly was the toughest 20 hours of our life because out of nowhere we were hit by a storm that brought in huge waves! The sky was filled with dark clouds and the sails were down to the minimum. Throughout the storm, we were awake, and alert. At one point, I was on the watch at the deck and this huge wave, as tall as a three storey building crashed on us. When it fell, for 5-10 seconds I was inside the water, and I really thought I was off the boat. Now, if you are off the boat, then there is very little chance to retrieve you because it’s a vast space and you just drift away. I was sure my end was near, but then suddenly the water went away and I could see my skipper heading towards me. After those 20 hours, we reached Cape horn and saw the most beautiful rainbow. The sky was clear, there were dolphins jumping beside us. I think I saw god in the sky that day!
 
 
 
 You won’t believe this, but everything they showed in the movie really happens — we saw it all! Remember that scene where the ocean lights up? That’s totally real. one night, our boat was crossing a calm part of the ocean, and these bio luminescent organisms were strewn across the surface of the water. As our boat passed by, they got disturbed and lit up and we left a trail of light behind us. we could see all kinds of marine life then...
  
  
 
 
 When we met PM Modi, he quoted Neil Armstrong and told us, “I went as an astronaut and returned as a human being”. This voyage has changed my life completely. I was stubborn, fussy and impatient, and all those vices have gone now! At home, I would be picky about food, but I know to respect everything more. Even in my personal relationships, I think I have grown closer to everyone around me. 
 Before leaving for the voyage, my parents were worried if I would find a match, because of the absurdity of what I was doing. When I did find one, it was almost time to leave and I did not know what stress it would put on the initial days of our relationship. But every day, he would be there as my pillar of support. Some days when things went terribly wrong on the ship, I would only call him and tell him about the situation and leave it completely on him to handle my nervous parents. So, he really helped me along the way. In fact there was this one moment, when we had to pull over at Mauritius for an emergency repair on the boat. I was so low that it happened on the last leg of our journey, and knowing my state of mind, he flew down to Mauritius to meet me! I still can’t believe that happened, that certainly has to be the best surprise ever for me! But the best part is, once you have circumnavigated the earth, everything else feels achievable, I mean, what can be tougher than that?
 
 
