CHANDIGARH: The   ( ) will hold a public hearing session on Tuesday to determine power tariff for the next financial year.

 The UT electricity department in its Aggregate Revenue Requirement ( ) and tariff petition has proposed a hike of upto 20% in the existing tariff for the next financial year in different slabs, which will come into force from April 1.
 
 Talking to TOI, UT superintending engineer MP   said the commission will fix the new tariff after taking feedback from the residents. He further said the revenue gap of the department stands at around Rs 200 crore. “We have urged the commission to consider the hike as we have to overcome the revenue gap of the current financial year,” said MP Singh.
 
 In the past five years, the commission has revised power tariff only twice. The commission has turned down the petition on three occasions on the ground that the department had failed to submit certain audited accounts. In the domestic category, the electricity department has proposed a hike from Rs 2.55 to Rs 2.75 in the slab of 0-150 units. It has proposed increase from Rs 4.80 to Rs 5.80 in the slab of 151-400 units and Rs 5 to Rs 6 in slab above 400 units. In the commercial category, increase from Rs 5 to Rs 6.20 in the slab between 0-150, and Rs 5.45 to Rs 6.75 in the slab above 400 units has been proposed.
 
 The electricity department caters to 2.25 lakh consumers divided into nine different categories. As per the official figures, of the total consumers, 1.99 lakh are domestic, which accounts to more than 87% of total consumers. The remaining 23 % belongs to other categories namely commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply.
 
 Consumers have expressed their displeasure over the proposed tariff hike and levying of fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges. City-based industrialist   slammed the electricity department for levying charges, which push the power rates high. 
 
 
