NEW DELHI: Accusing BJP of promoting “loot and scoot”,   said jeweller Nirav   was protected by someone high in the government even as party chief   claimed the secret to the scamster’s success was his alleged proximity to PM  . Using the hashtag “from 1Modi2another”, Rahul tweeted, “Guide to looting India by Nirav Modi — Hug PM Modi; be seen with him in Davos, use that clout to steal Rs 12,000 crore and slip out of the country like Mallya while the government looks the other way.” 

 The blunt allegation linking the BJP mascot with the man behind what Congress termed “independent India’s biggest bank fraud” came on a day the opposition accused Modi of letting the scam flourish on his watch. Congress spokespersons Randeep Surjewala, Shaktisinh Gohil and Pawan Khera said a whistleblower from Bengaluru, Hari Prasad, had submitted details of the brewing scam on July 26, 2016 to the PMO and sought action. 
 
 The documents released by Prasad deal with Nirav Modi’s partner Mehul Choksi’s business dealings. Prasad’s letters showed that he listed the modus operandi of Gitanjali group’s Mehul Choksi — partner of Nirav Modi — and 42 cases against him across the country. Also, Congress said Punjab National Bank had on January 29, 2018 urged the CBI to issue a lookout notice to prevent Nirav Modi from leaving the country. Congress also released a CII group photo with the PM in Davos featuring Nirav. 
 
 “Despite all this, how was the scam allowed to go on unchecked and how was Nirav Modi permitted to escape the clutches of law and leave the country?” Congress asked, underling that the PM had turned a blind eye to the details in his possession. Surjewala claimed since 30 banks were exposed to Nirav’s dealings, the scam would finally total around Rs 30,000 crore. 
 
 Playing on the family name that attracts attention, Congress said Nirav was “doosra chhota Modi” after Lalit Modi — besides Vijay Mallya and Rishi Agarwal — to perpetrate a scam and leave the country under the Modi government. Besides the scam, Congress said the ability of Nirav and Choksi to play Indian banks showed that regulatory mechanisms had collapsed under the Modi government. 
 
 “The entire system was bypassed. All regulatory mechanisms broke down. Everything escaped the eyes of auditors and investigators. ‘Risk management’ and ‘fraud detection ability’ came to naught. Yet, the Modi government would have us believe that this entire fraud was being perpetrated by two employees,” Surjewala said.
