GHAZIABAD: The mother of a four-year-old boy, who had drowned in an open   in Gulzar Colony two weeks ago, has moved the chief judicial magistrate’s   seeking an order to police to register an FIR against the mayor, municipal commissioner and the health officer for not building a wall along the sewer channel that could have averted the accident.

 Rubina, the petitioner, sought an FIR under IPC Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) against mayor  , municipal corporation commissioner CP Singh and health officer RB Suman, accusing them of not taking any corrective measures despite the death of another child after falling into the drain two days earlier.
 
 Rubina’s son Ayan was the second child to have drowned in the open drain in Gulzar Colony in a gap of two days. On March 11, another four-year-old child, Aahil, had died after falling into the drain.
 
 The   Development Authority has since started building a wall along the drain to prevent any further accidents and suspended a junior engineer responsible for the upkeep of the area.
 
 Rubina’s counsel Khalid Khan said: “After the death of Aahil, an FIR under Sections 277 (fouling water of public spring or reservoir) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC had been registered against unidentified GMC officials. However, no such action was taken in the case of Ayan.”
 
 Rubina, too, had filed a complaint at Kotwali police station and marked a copy to the SSP seeking swift action into the matter, but to no avail, Khan added.
 
 Through the petition, Rubina also highlighted the plight of the Gulzar Colony residents because of the open drain. “The drain which passes through Gulzar Colony has not been cleaned for several years. It is covered with heaps of garbage and polythene, and in the absence of any boundary wall, it often becomes difficult to differentiate the level of the drain from the pathway. Several people have died after falling into the drain over the years. The residents had met the mayor, GMC commissioner and other officials a number times and highlighted the issue. It looks like they intentionally did not take any action in the matter,” she wrote.
 
 Khan said the court had directed the police to submit a response by April 2, the next date of hearing.
 
 
