MANGALURU: The forthcoming assembly polls in Karnataka will be a fight between caste, money and family culture of Congress and BJP’s culture of dedication, determination and discipline, said   here on Tuesday. 

 Karnataka assembly election will be like a national election as it is the only major state in India that is not with the BJP, Javadekar, also the Karnataka election in-charge, said.
 
 Addressing DK district unit party office bearers, Javadekar said BJP is everywhere (in India) and Congress is nowhere. The election will also be a battle between two ideologies – one that is inclusive and other that is family centric, he said, citing the examples of Ramnath Kovind and Venkaiah Naidu, who despite their humble backgrounds have gone on to become the President and Vice-President of India respectively.
 
 Taking potshots at CM Siddaramaiah, Javadekar said the CM is busy with dividing (religion) and ruling Karnataka. “This will boomerang on him badly,” he said, adding that communities will remain together. The government that on one hand has failed to check murders of Hindu activists and on the other hand is hobnobbing with a terrorist organization such as the SDPI, he said, adding the government has also lost total control over law and order and in detecting crimes.
 
 On CM’s claim that Anna Bhagya will propel Congress back to power, Javadekar said the Centre is bearing a Lion’s share of the cost right from procurement, milling and distribution to state godowns and from there to fair price shops and CM cannot claim this as his scheme. 
 
 Accusing CM of having been in slumber all this while, Javadekar said he has suddenly woken up with schemes such as Indira Canteen while having announced a 20% cut in the state’s budgetary outlay.
 
 Highlighting local issues specifically, Javadekar said the drug and sand mafia are having a free run in Dakshina Kannada and the district has witnessed 5 murders in last 25-odd days. There have been murders and communal strife inside the jail, and criminals are seen with ministers. The government is paying compensation to criminals killed in police operation, while ignoring families of Hindu activists who have been murdered across the state in last 56 months, he noted.
 
 
