The latest episode of   brought a big shock for the housemates.

 The episode started with the continuation of the task, Murder Mystery. The detectives, Sushant and Smita, were asked to detect the murderers. They had to prove, how the murderers might have killed the common people in the house.
 
 Sushant and Smita correctly detected the two murderers, Megha Dhade and Aastad Kale. They even tried to solve the mystery with supporting evidence.
 
 Bigg Boss announced that the two detectives played very well and they tried to solve the murder cases diligently. Then Bigg Boss asked Megha and Aastad to reveal the techniques followed by them during the murder.
 
 After the task, Bigg Boss announced that  , who came to the show as a wild card entry, has to leave the house. She was just a guest player.
 
 This announcement came as a big shock for the housemates as they had developed a good bonding with Harshada. Resham and Aastad got emotional after the announcement.
 
 The next day in the house started with the song, ‘Ga Sajani… Aali Thumkat Naar Lachkat’. Taking it as a hint, Aastad guessed that someone might enter the house.
 
 Then Bigg Boss gave a new task to the housemates. The task was to save water. There were no teams and the house had to save the water collectively.
 
 The contestants were given 2 drums of water for the household work and 2 pots of water for drinking.
 
 After the announcement of the task, the buzzer rang in the storeroom. When Smita went to the storeroom, there was a towel with toothbrush and toothpaste kept in a basket with the initials, S.R. written on it.
 
 The housemates started guessing the name of the person, taking the initials as a clue. They guessed that the names might be Sumit Raghvan or Satish Rajwade.
 
 Finally, Bigg Boss announced  's name and asked her to come to the confession room. Bigg Boss welcomed her into the house. She was quite excited about entering the house. The housemates welcomed her, too.
 
 
 
 
 Sharmishtha informed Megha and Sai that they are playing well in the show. She praised Usha as well for her way of playing the game.
 
