The latest episode of   starts with   meeting   and   as   is upset with his close bond with Roshni. Soon, Roshni walks up and tells everyone to dance, but Aaliya refuses her and tells that she needs to talk to her parents.

 Adi joins Roshni and starts dancing with her. Aaliya spends some time with her parents. Mani tells Aaliya that she should dance with Adi, as he is spending much time with Roshni and ignoring her. But Aaliya supports Adi and tells Mani that Adi and Roshni are just good friends and they recently met again in London. 
 
 In another scene, the entire Bhalla and Iyer family start dancing, when   takes   onto the stage to surprise her. He informs everyone that he has promised to surprise Ishita and this is his biggest surprise for the night. He then surprises his wife by telling her that he has opened a new clinic for her. She is overwhelmed by Raman's biggest surprise and tells him how did he come to know that she is not liking her sabbatical period.
 
 Ishita is impressed with Raman's gift and both share a romantic moment. Adi and Roshni ask Raman and Ishita to dance and enjoy the Baisakhi function. Soon, Santoshi starts checking the chat stall and complaints about the entire arrangements. She goes to her room and meets Pihu.
 
 Santoshi asks her why is she dressed in the south Indian skirt, to which Pihu explains that she wanted to make her Paati happy as the Iyer family is dressed in Punjabi style. Santoshi tries explaining Pihu that Baisakhi is a Punjabi festival and she should get dressed in Punjabi style. But Pihu doesn’t listen to her and screams at Santoshi. Even Santoshi tells her to not attend the Baisakhi function and Pihu says that she is not interested in attending the party.
 
 Later Santoshi meets Ishita and tells her about Pihu's arrogant behavior. Ishita decides to talk to Pihu and convinces her daughter to wear the dress given by Santoshi and Madhu. Ishita tells Pihu to get a fusion effect. Raman searches for Ishita and asks the cops about her. On the other side, Ishita and Pihu walk out of the house and find darkness around. On the other side, someone is sneaking around and slowly comes behind Ishita. 
 
 Even she notices some oil on the stairs and tries to stop Pihu from getting slipped. But till then someone pushes Ishita down the stairs. Ishita holds Pihu in her arms as she falls on the stairs. Pihu screams and Raman runs to search them. As he reaches the spot, he slips and gets hurt on the forehead. Raman suddenly starts getting the flashback from his memory from the time Ananya died.
 
 Raman gets unconscious and Ruhi calls the doctor. Raman suddenly wakes up and hugs Ishita and Ruhi. He even tells everyone that Ishita has not killed Ananya and ask Ruhi if she married Nikhil. The Bhalla and Iyer family are elated as Raman regained his lost memory.
 
 
