MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI: Three students - V Harini of  , Ponmeni Madurai,   S L and   V of Sacred Heart International School in Marthandam, Kanyakumari District have bagged the first two ranks in the state in the Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) 2018 examinations, the results for which were released on Monday.

 Harini topped by securing 98.2% in the best of five subjects. With centums each in Mathematics and Environmental applications, 99 each in history and geography, 94 in English and 97 in Tamil, Harini is aspiring to be a doctor. Speaking to TOI, she attributed her success to hard work, parents and teachers who continuously encouraged her. She also said that the cycle and repetitive tests conducted by the school helped her score the marks.
 
 Unlike many toppers, she did not go for private tuition and did not sacrifice watching television, listening to songs and going to the movies with her family. Her father   is a businessman and mother  , a professor in veterinary. Her father was a district topper when he wrote the examinations while her mother was a school topper. Harini’s brother is doing his medicine.
 
 Ahil Lisha Rajan and Ashwin Jino secured second rank in the state by scoring 490 marks out of 500. “Ashwin used to be the topper in class. I used to settle down with the second or third rank and was not worried about it,” said a relaxed Lisha.
 
 Talking to TOI, Lisha said, that staying attentive in class helped her score at the state-level. She scored centum in mathematics, 99 in computer science, 98 each in English and social studies, 95 in Tamil and 94 in science. She wants to pursue higher secondary in the same school and become a doctor.
 
  She is also determined not to go for NEET coaching as her sister has cleared the PG NEET without any coaching.
 
 Ashwin has a centum each in mathematics and computer science, 99 in science, 98 each in social studies and Tamil and 93 in English. His father S Vijin Jenius a scientist with Isro, Thiruvananthapuram, said that model examinations conducted by the school helped his son achieve the marks.
 
 The boy is busy preparing for JEE in a coaching centre in Thiruvananthapuram, where he will continue his higher secondary and continue preparations for the JEE Main and the JEE Advanced to secure a berth in the IITs.
 
 Principal of Sacred Heart School E Arun Kumar attributed the combined efforts of the dedicated students, supportive parents, hardworking teachers and encouraging management as the reason behind the students’ performance.
 
 
