Nagpur: Marking the silver jubilee of the annual surgical   being organized in   since 1992, the   Club of Nagpur South (RCNS) will be conducting the camp at Chikhaldara from January 16 to January 18 this year.

 The first camp was organized at Semadoh in 1992 under the guidance of Dr SM Patil. Dr Prakash Thosare of the forest department had then suggested to hold such camps in the remote foothills of Satpuda forest range for the benefit of   tribals. The Rotarians agreed and have been conducting the camp since then. 
 
 In order to offer better health care services, the camp venue was shifted to Chikhaldara in 1993.
 
 During the camp, all kinds of surgeries are undertaken free of cost in a full-fledged state-of-the-art operation theatre set up by the Rotary Club in the rural hospital. This year, around 1,500 patients are expected to be treated and about 200 operations will be undertaken.
 
 Informing about the camp in detail, Sanjay Tatwawadi, past president of RCNS, during a press conference held on Tuesday, said, “The main objective of this camp is to treat all the patients as opposed to just diagnosing them as mere identifying the ailment cannot solve the problem.”
 
 “A satellite diagnostic camp was held at Dharni on December 30 and 31 wherein 475 Korku tribal were examined. Out of these, patients who need to undergo general, minor and major surgeries were identified. These patients will be treated during the camp free of cost,” he said.
 
 Dr Devendra Mahore, ENT surgeon who has been associated with the camp for the past 22 years, told that quality of the service at the camp is taken care of very vigilantly and there is no kind of compromise on it. “High-quality branded medicines are provided to the patients and they are operated upon by expert team of doctors. However, our job does not end there and the service is extended even after the camp wherein the treated patients are given all the medicines they might require post-operation.”
 
 Tatwawadi also informed that the camp is extensively supported by Ekal Vidyalaya and forest department who mobilize the patients and transport them to Chikhaldara, respectively. He branded the camp as a combined effort to successfully carry out a noble deed.
 
 Amit Gokhle, president of RCNS, was also present at the press conference.
 
 The surgical camp will be followed by a two-day thyroid surgical workshop on January 20 and 21 wherein 12 patients, who were screened earlier, will be treated. More than 40 delegates from around the country will attend the workshop.
 
 
