With an overwhelming increase in vehicles on the roads in the city in recent years, traffic in Lucknow has become a nightmare. Add to it the reckless driving not just by men but also the women in the city. But when it comes to traffic challans, while men are fined frequently, the women manage to get away with it most of the time because of ‘their gender’ according to the Lucknow   personnel. With just 15 booked for traffic violations since January 2016, the city traffic police certainly seem to be rather women friendly! 

 
 One of the major reasons for fewer women being issued challans in the city is apparently because there aren’t as many women drivers as men in the city, say police officials. Monmohan KR Bashal, ADG Traffic, Lucknow, says, "Also, we are a bit lenient towards girls because of our cultural values. Another reason is that the volume of women drivers is very less as compared to men."
 Agreeing with this is Naeem-ul-Hasan, CO Traffic Line, who says, "Since we don't have many women drivers in Lucknow, those who are there are mostly let off during checking drives. We have seen that most ladies carry all the required papers and follow traffic rules, so the general perception is ki agar lady hai toh sab theek hi hoga. During office and rush hours, we become a bit lenient as everyone on the road is in a hurry to reach their destination. Because we also have to manage the traffic at that point, we don’t do much checking at that time."
 
 
 Since most traffic police personnel are males, there are few women constables to be seen at busy traffic intersections in the city. According to traffic police constables, women, sometimes when they are hauled up or stopped for traffic violations, demand the presence of a woman constable. Ajay Singh, a traffic Sub-Inspector, whom we spotted at the   crossing, tells us, "Whenever we scold girls for not wearing a helmet or for doing tripling on two-wheelers, most of them start arguing with us and demand the presence of a lady police constable. Since we don’t have lady constables in the Traffic Police department, and we don’t want to create a scene on the road, we have to let them off with a warning."
 
  
  Traffic cops, like this one at Hazratganj crossing, say that girls often play the sympathy card while being checked for traffic violations in the city (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) (Pics for representational purpose only)
 
 
 
 Apparently, lady drivers in the city don’t hesitate in playing the bechari card much too often too, to get away with a traffic violation, say police personnel. Making excuses of not being well, to kids waiting at home or in school are the most common excuses given to traffic constables, according to the traffic cops. Rabish Kumar Singh, a TSI at Hazratganj, tells us, "During the daytime, when the schools get over, we spot a lot of mothers without helmets driving two-wheelers along with their kids sitting in the pillion seat. When we stop them to take action the kids start saying ‘uncle bhook lag rahi hai, jaane do’. Ab har kisi ka soft corner hota hai so we have to leave them." Rabish further adds, "A lot of times, we come across mothers giving excuses that their kids are waiting in school, which again compels us to let them off."
 Adding to the same thought is KV Singh, a constable spotted on duty at Daliganj crossing, who says, "Ladkiyon ka koi bharosa nahi ke sabke saamne kya kehne lagen. That's why I never stop them for checking their license or papers. There are many girls who get scared when we stop them for not wearing a helmet or driving without a license and they start crying. Ab yeh dekh ke bheed lag jati hai aur hamein unhe chhodna pad jaata hai."
 
  
  Tina, Akansha Khyati and Deeksha Singh Raghav posed for LT at the 1090 crossing (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) (Pics for representational purposes only)
 
 
 
 
 Not just the women card, according to traffic cops in the city, women also don’t hesitate in resorting to dadagiri when confronted by traffic cops. "Even after being polite with the women drivers, some of them will blame us that we used cuss words and abused them while stopping them for traffic rules violation. Ab hamari maan’ne wala kaun hai? Aajkal toh unhi (ladies) ka hi sikka chalta hai. So, in order to save our skins, we tell them to go,” rues a TSI, not wanting to be named. He further adds, “There are times when we come across girls who are not carrying any papers, or not wearing a helmet or seat belt, yet they will question us ki humne unhe kaise rok liya. So in order to not get into any controversy, we let them off. But we need a lady constable to keep a check on women drivers and deal with them accordingly."
 The policemen also claim that it is mostly teenagers most of the times, who break traffic rules and in order to avoid creating any scene at the crossing, they have to be let off. "Hum log tabhi challan karte hain jab headquarters se hamare paas aadesh aate hain, which is not very often. Most of the times, we spot teenagers doing tripling on the scooter jinko hum bachchiyan samajh ke chhodh dete hain. In case, we do stop them to check their license or for any other issues, they start shouting at us and say ‘aapne hamein kaise rok kaise liya and aap jaante nahi main kiski beti hoon’. Since we work for long hours and don’t want to lose our cool either, we let them go with a warning," shares KV Yadav, a TSI who’s managing traffic at the busy   crossing these days.
 
  
  Records obtained by LT from Traffic Police Line, Sadar, of the total number of challans issued by the   from January 2016 till mid-March, 2018 (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 
 Sunil Singh (name changed), a constable on duty in the Hazratganj area, while sharing an incident with us, says, "Once I was told to stop women driving without helmet and I stopped a college girl to check her documents. In order to escape, the girl stopped her two-wheeler for a few seconds and then sped off crushing my foot under her two-wheeler. Because of the leniency, we have to suffer a lot of problems sometimes and problem yeh hai ki hum ladkiyon ke khilaaf kuchh bol bhi nahi sakte."
 — Adnaan Rizvi
 
  
  
 
 
