PUNE: Brand new buildings, each promising to offer “comfortable” hostel accommodation to young IT professionals coming to the city from across India, have become a sort of a hallmark for Hinjewadi, the city’s IT hub.

 And this proliferation in   — popularly known by the misnomer of PG facilities — is evidence of the massive demand. More than 30 such hostels are functional and fully-occupied in  . 
 
 These buildings come up on small plots owned by individuals who engage small-time builders. The buildings are used by the owner to run a hostel. At times, the owner may choose to rent the building out to an agent, who operates the hostel and pays a monthly rent to the owner.
 
 Typically four- or five-storeyed, these “hostels” offer various accommodation permutations and combinations — single-occupancy, double-occupancy, triple-occupancy etc. — depending on the size of the room or the apartment. Each building can house anywhere upward of 12 rooms/apartments which can accommodate over 60 people. According to the owners of these facilities, most professionals, in order to reduce expenses, choose not to live alone.
 
 A double- or triple-occupancy room has cots, cupboards and most importantly, attached bathrooms. Sometimes, six people can share a comfortable three bedroom apartment, which boasts of a living room and a kitchen. 
 
 An employee at  , who stays at a hostel in Mukainagar, said the accommodation is perfect for single working professionals. “I moved here just about a month ago and I am very happy. My friend had been staying at this hostel... so I did not have to look for accommodation elsewhere. The rooms are very comfortable and these hostels come with all necessary amenities. The biggest advantage is that the commute to my workplace is very easy,” the professional said.
 
 Owner of a hostel in the area said, “We have this facility solely for IT professionals who work in and around Hinjewadi. Accommodation is available for boys and girls, but we do not entertain students. I started providing hostel facilities about a year-and-a-half ago and the response has been very good. I have about 300 professionals staying at my facility.”
 
 What also works in the favour of the young professionals is the fact that there are no rectors or curfews. “There are no restrictions on visitors and people are free to come and go as they like. We can even smoke or have a drink provided our roommates do not object,” said another IT professional. However, one must be ready to live with unknown people. 
 
 Apart from the Mukainagar and other phases of Hinjewadi, even   has joined the hostel bandwagon.
 
 
