Coimbatore: If everything goes well, an illegal residential building on a road at Krishna Colony at Singanallur in the city will be demolished soon.

 Flouting all norms, the city corporation’s town planning wing had earlier approved its construction on a land that was earmarked as open reserve site and road.
 
 The 2,796sqft land at Krishna Colony, which falls in the civic body’s east zone, was part of a 30ft road in the department of town and country planning (DTCP) approved layout. In October 2016, one D Robinson Selvam applied for a building approval on the land, knowing very well that it was earmarked as road.
 
 The layout, owned by the national workers house building and benefit society, was approved by DTCP in 1977. Subsequently, 131 plots were earmarked and sold on the 13.4 acre land. In 1981, it was revised, and they created 12 other plots on the land earmarked for parks and playgrounds. In total, 1.62 acre was earmarked as open space reservation (OSR). Of that only 24 cent is available now.
 
 Activist S P Thiyagarajan, who have all the documents relating to the transaction, said, “The buyer has mentioned several layout plan designs and documents that clearly state that it was a road. So, there is no doubt that he was unaware about it. Also, he owns two other plots, number 63 and 64, near the road and OSR plot. But he never mentioned these plots when he got the approval for the road,” he said.
 
 On November 25, 2016, former town planning officer, Sasipriya, and the city corporation commissioner, K VIijayakarthikeyan, had approved the documents. Thiyagarajan added that the owner had even applied for a loan of 75 lakh in Karur Vysya bank on Oppanakara Street for New Raj Traders and PMP Traders.
 
 “We showed the layout design documents to the civic body’s town planning wing and officials there have confirmed that it was a fake plan. The approval accorded in 2016 was based on forged documents. The corporation should ideally file a criminal complaint and take legal action against the owner, besides reclaiming the land,” Thiyagarajan said.
 
 The town planning wing officials told TOI that they had visited the site and prepared a report. “We will take action and demolish the building soon,” said an official, who did not want to be named.
 
 Thiyagarajan said this was not the first time that forged documents were provided. “The corporation needs to cross-check documents before according approval. But most times, they are lured by money. Also, the licensed building surveyors forge documents that are given to the local planning authority and the corporation. The civic body should also take action against the licensed building surveyors, who surveyed the plot,” he said.
 
 Activists said this wasn’t an odd case. There are nearly 50 other encroachments that the civic body had failed to take a look. “150 such encroachments have been assessed by the Town planning wing officials and we have brought forward another 50 such cases. The corporation never acts on them,” said Thiyagarajan.
 
 
