When Keralites look forward to a   every year, they fail to notice that existing rivers are choked with  ,   and  . A study found that Pamba, Periyar, Karamana, Kallayi, Valapattanam and Meenachil were the most-polluted rivers in Kerala.

 Scientific research institutions under Kerala State Council for Science Technology and Environment (KSCSTE) – led by Centre for Water Resources Development & Management (CWRDM) – monitored the water quality and pollution levels of all 44 rivers in Kerala from 2009 to 2017 and found that they were polluted and under threat.
 
 “All rivers in the state are polluted, mainly Pamba and Periyar. The least polluted is Kabini in Wayanad,” said KSCSTE joint director Kamalakshan Kokkal, who is also the project coordinator. While Pamba is chocked by waste left by pilgrims, Periyar is reeling due to the effluents from hundreds of factories functioning in its vicinity. Kabini’s status as less polluted owes to its path that is through mostly forest areas and rural areas of Wayanad district.
 
 CWRDM lead scientist and principal investigator PS Harikumar said environmental monitoring of water quality showed that pollution levels were increasing over the years and if the current rate of microbial contamination continues, rivers would be reduced to mere puddles of waste water.
 
 “Increasing pollution is a result of lopsided urbanization and lack of solid waste management,” he said, adding that researchers found solid waste in almost all rivers along with untreated sewage and industrial effluents. Nearly 500 samples were collected by his team during the pre and post-monsoon periods.
 
 The study also identified hotspots at these rivers based on environmental water quality monitoring programme. Central pollution control board (CPCB) use-based classification of river water classified these rivers in the C-category. This means it had high E coli content (Over 5,000 MPN/100ml), mostly bacteria from faecal matter. The water quality index (WQI) of these rivers were termed marginal for scores between 45 and 64.9, which means unfit for drinking. But, water from these rivers can be made potable after conventional treatment and disinfection process.
 
 Most-polluted rivers also had a PH level that ranged between 6 and 9 (more acidic). When the value is over 8.5, the water is not potable. These rivers also have dissolved oxygen content (4mg/L). If dissolved oxygen is less than 5mg/L, it is said to be contaminated. KSCSTE executive VP Suresh Das said data compiled by the team will aid river protection. “The project gained momentum after the chief minister extended his support and the government included river protection as a major component of Haritha Keralam. This mission can now use the data to clean up rivers,” he said.
 
 The detailed study was completed by the team in nine phases. The first phase covered three major river basins including Kabini, Periyar and Neyyar. Water quality and pollution levels were monitored and the report was released in 2009. During the second phase, water quality of Karamana, Meenachil and Kadalundi river basins were monitored and the report came out in 2010. In the third phase, water quality was monitored at Pamba, Chalakudy, Bharatappuzha, Anjarakkandy-Thalassery river basins and the report was given in 2011. The final phase was in 2017.
 
 
 
 
 
 
