KOREGAON BHIMA: The Pune rural police by Wednesday evening arrested 25 people for the violence in   and other places while the Shikrapur police has filed eight cases of rioting and one case of murder against a group of "blue flag-bearing unidentified youths" in connection with the death of   on January 1. 

 Superintendent of police (Pune rural)   told TOI that 13 of those arrested are Dalits while 12 are from the upper castes. Police have also obtained   footage from commercial establishments at   and Koregaon Bhima to identify those who created trouble in the villages along the   highway.
 
 Haque said the situation was now normal in Koregaon Bhima and other villages. "Both groups were whipping up emotions in the Koregaon Bhima area at least three or four days before the January 1 celebrations. The situation is peaceful now. Shops are reopening in the villages," he said.
 
 However, a strong police presence is still being maintained in Sanaswadi, Koregaon Bhima, Vadhu Budruk and other neighbouring villages.
 
 
 
 
 The 25 arrests were made in connection with vandalism and rioting. “As of now, I cannot say or pinpoint how the violence broke out at Koregaon Bhima and Sanaswadi. However, trouble escalated after both groups began abusing each other, which was followed by stones being thrown from different directions,”   said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Shikrapur police on Wednesday booked a group of “blue flag-bearing unidentified youths” for the death of Fatangale
 
 (28), a resident of Gholapwadi village at Sanaswadi, on January 1. Fatangale’s friend Datta Pardhe lodged a complaint with the Bund Garden police late on Tuesday night, which was transferred to the Shikrapur police station for further investigations.
 
 Police inspector Ramesh Galande of the Shikrapur police told TOI that the FIR states that Fatangale was going on his motorcycle near a petrol pump in Sanaswadi when a stone hit him on the head. In his complaint, Pardhe has also allegeed that Fatangale was physically abused by a mob carrying blue flags. “However, we are verifying this claim,” Galande said.
 
 Police have also registered eight cases of rioting and arson in the area.
 
 
