KANNUR: Vayalkilikal, the collective of the local residents of Keezhattur here, who are on an agitation against the  , has got more   with the   and also  ,  , coming forward to back their agitation. The agitation has already got the support of the BJP and many environmental groups, while the CPM opposes it.

 Interacting with the media here on Tuesday, when he was here to inaugurate ‘Navadarshan yathra’, the campaign against the politics of violence in the district, led by DCC president Satheesan Pacheni, KPCC president MM Hassan said the Congress will extend all support to the agitation at Keezhattur against the NH bypass by reclaiming paddy fields.
 
 He also said a people’s agitation cannot be sabotaged by spreading fake stories to show that it has no people’s support, he said.
 
 “The communist government is trying to sabotage the agitation by terming the people’s fight as anti-development, and the statement by PWD minister G Sudhakaran is a threat to the struggle by the residents,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile delegation led by AIYF State secretary Mahesh Kakkath will visit Keezhattur on Wednesday to express solidarity with the agitators. In a statement, the AIYF said the district leaders of the organization will also accompany the State leader.
 
 Though the CPM has been opposing the agitation, even though most of the residents are CPM sympathizers, the CPI always maintained a sympathetic stand towards them.
 
 After the agitators were arrested and the shed they built was set ablaze allegedly by the CPM workers last week when they opposed the survey of the paddy field as part of the acquisition, the agitation garnered more support from outside. They had even threatened to immolate themselves if the NHAI officials did the survey. But the survey was carried out after their arrest and this helped the agitation gain more sympathy. However, what made the parties to come up with open support was the BJP’s effort to hijack the agitation.
 
 The residents are all set to launch the second round of campaign on March 25, and they said senior Congress leader V M Sudheeran will inaugurate it.
 
