Kolkata: The fate of the four-year-old   Hotel at the Ruby Connector on E M Bypass hangs in balance. Two bidders have put forward revised bids last week after the hotel was referred to the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) last year owing to non-payment of dues to its lenders. The resolution professional (RP) will present the revised bids to the committee of creditors (CoC), led by Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company, on April 26. 

 Both the earlier bids were rejected in the first week of April as they were much below the liquidation value of the asset. 
 
 Sources said the liquidation value of the hospitality asset is estimated at Rs 105 crore while the distress value would be Rs 130 crore and the fair value would be Rs 170 crore. “The bids were of around Rs 90 crore,” they added. City-based RDB Group and P Sonthalia are reported to be the two bidders vying for the hotel. 
 
 Another source close to the development said the revised bids have to be complied with the IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code) apart from the fact that financials, too, should comply with the norms. 
 
 Jalan Intercontinental of Aditya Jalan owns The Gateway property, which is managed by the Taj Group through a 20-year management contract. The hotel is built on an area of two acres under a long-term lease of 99 years. It was originally meant for 200 rooms but as of now, 80 rooms are operating. A little over 15 years of the management contract is still remaining. Despite a reversal of fortune, Jalan is optimistic that there will be light at the end of the tunnel. 
 
 He told TOI that the hotel is now enjoying an occupancy of 80% and is making an operating profit. 
 
 Jalan Intercontinental has also applied for a five-star status for the hotel. 
 
 Jalan is ready to pay a substantial part of the dues of the lenders upfront and the remaining in a span of seven-eight years in order to save his hotel for which he claimed that his family has mortgaged everything. “We are ready to rope in investors for the hotel if we get an opportunity. Our family has sold a bungalow for this project. Now, my own flat in south Kolkata is mortgaged. This is one of the very few NCLT cases where value of the asset is much more than the creditors’ due,” he added. 
 
 Jalan pointed out that the hotel faced a cost escalation, which led to non-payment of dues. According to him, the cost escalation was largely due to time overrun because of environment issues. “We could not complete the construction on time because of the Pollution Control Board (PCB) order that prevented us to work at night. There was a delay in commencing operation due to this ban,” he added. 
 
 Initially, Jalan took a loan of Rs 61 crore from SBI in 2008 and later on, leveraged more in order to complete the project. SBI later transferred the loan to Edelweiss ARC. The total due as claimed by Edelweiss is around Rs 125 crore. Besides, there is another major lender, Dhanlaxmi Bank, with 23% voting rights while the ARC has 77% rights. Sources in one of the lenders said that it would first examine whether the revised offers are compliant or not. 
 
 
