ALLAHABAD: The chairman and members of   have moved high court challenging a Central government notification directing a   inquiry into the selections made by the commission between 2012 and 2017. The high court on Tuesday fixed January 9 for hearing of the petition. 

 On the recommendations of the   government, the Centre had recently ordered a CBI probe into all appointments between 2012 and 2017, when   was in power. The chairman,  , who has challenged the order was appointment by the previous SP government in March 2016. His predecessor,  , had been removed after the high court declared his appointment illegal. Hearing the petition moved by   and members of commission, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Dilip Babasaheb Bhosale and Justice   also asked counsel for the state government to apprise the court on what basis the state government recommended the CBI probe. 
 
 
 
 
 It has been alleged in the petition that as   is a constitutional body, the Central government’s notification for CBI inquiry into its affairs is ‘illegal and without any jurisdiction”. Further, no inquiry can be directed against UPPSC under the existing laws. The Central government had passed the order for CBI inquiry into the selections made by UPPSC between April 2012 and March 2017.
 
 During court proceedings on Tuesday, a preliminary objection was raised on behalf of the state government that the petition filed on behalf of the commission chairman and its members is “not maintainable and liable to be dismissed”. However, the commission pleaded that it could file a petition before the high court as the order for CBI inquiry has been passed against the selections made by the commission.
 
 To recall, Anil Yadav took over as UPPSC chairman from April 2013, a year after SP came to power. His tenure was marred by allegations of irregularities in selection process, leakage of question papers, violent agitation of candidates against the commission policies, etc. It was also alleged that candidates belonging to a particular caste were given undue preference during his tenure.
 
 Subsequently, his appointment was declared ‘illegal’ by the high court and he had to step down from the chairmanship. He also failed to get any relief from the   and had to go in December 2015. After a period of three months, Aniruddh Yadav was given the charge in March 2016.
 
 
 
