BHOPAL: The tall claims of the state government to check liquor abuse by preparing a data of ‘habitual drinkers’ has lost its fizz. Almost a year later, TOI found out that the state government has no data whatsoever on daily drinkers, defeating the very purpose of the rather intrusive scheme.

 The state had hit national headlines in January last year when it announced that police would create a databae of ‘habitual drinkers’ and those who frequently get drunk and create trouble. Liquor shop owners were supposed to note down the details of people who came around regularly and hand over the information to police every week.
 
 The purpose was to give medical assistance and counselling to drunkards in the hope of dissuading them from taking alcohol. A year after the announcement, the government has failed to ascertain how many habitual liquor consumers are there in MP. Surprisingly, government authorities do not know even the total number habitual drinkers in state, needless to mention the status of other announcements made by government to persuade people from taking alcohol.
 
 The issue gains significance since the state government on Wednesday announced its excise policy for the next fiscal, which also happens to be the election year. The entire exercise started during   when government ordered closure of more than 60 liquor shops within five km of the banks of river Narmada. It was seen as a step towards declaring MP a dry state. But later it was clarified that liquor prohibition is not a solution and the need is to create atmosphere in which people voluntarily keep off alcohol.
 
 However, the excise commissioner   said there is no such record available with the department. The liquor shops were directed to maintain a register of habitual drunkards with them. Health camps were held in a few districts. There is a difference between a habitual drinker and habitual offender and one cannot be stopped from consuming alcohol. The excise officials said running de-addiction drive is a collective responsibility.   runs the de-addiction centres. Besides, creating awareness in schools and colleges in this regard is the job of education department. Health department also has important role in de-addiction drives.
 
 The officials accepted that there is no record of habitual drinkers with them, but pointed as per rough estimate there are at least 50 habitual drinkers per liquor shop. Going by this, there would be 4,500 habitual drinkers in Bhopal with total 90 liquor shops, including   and country-made liquor shops. 
 
 But city police does not go by this estimate. City superintendent of police, Habibganj circle in Bhopal, Bhupendra Singh said there is no record of habitual drinkers with police. But in Kolar area of city alone, the number of liquor consumers is somewhere close to 15,000 during evening hours daily. The drunkards create ruckus on roadside between 7 pm to 10 pm and when they reach home there are complaints of domestic violence, which the police have to deal with on a regular basis. 
 
 Among the steps taken by the government to create awareness among people, statutory warning signs have been placed outside a few liquor outlet that say “Madira paan sehath ke liye haanikarak hai (Drinking liquor is injurious to health) and placards pointing harm of liquor on different body parts.” Liquor bottles also have the same warning on labels and a hologram to identify it as not illicit.
 
 
