NAGPUR: Mismanagement and poor arrangements marred the much-awaited   and Goa polls, held here on Wednesday, as per lawyers. 

 The city witnessed about 65% turnout, where about five booths were set up. Of them, one was on the premises of Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court and rest were District and Session Court. Out of 5,508 voters, 3,581 cast their votes. The counting would begin from April 15 in Mumbai.
 
 The voters faced severe hardships and delay while exercising their franchisee due to less number of booths. The problem was more severe at district court premises due to large number of voters, over 4,500. According to them, the mess took place due to inexperience of the court’s administration, which failed to take help from the experienced seniors.
 
 There were serpentine queues at booths in Nyay Mandir and voters had for two hours to cast votes. In the melee, many senior lawyers and women went back without casting their votes. The maximum polling took place during lunch hours and after 4pm, when the courts’ working ended.
 
 “It was total mismanagement on the part of administration. Till last polls, senior and experienced lawyers used to conduct this process under their supervision and therefore, such mess was never witnessed. From this year, the   changed the criteria and didn’t allow any lawyer to participate in the conduction of polls that led to the debacle,” an upset district government pleader (DGP) Nitin Telgote told TOI.
 
 Even the voters’ list was modified on Wednesday morning with addition of 90 names. The old list didn’t have names of lawyers like  . It was only when their protested that their names were included in the voting list.
 
 “It took long time to vote and even arrangements were made in a small room, which made the matters worst. It’s perfect case of mismanagement where all arrangements have gone haywire. It took at least ten minutes for a voter to complete the process,” lawyer Ganesh Khanzode said.
 
 Even the dummy ballot papers were not provided at the entrance of each booth for proper identification. With names of 164 candidates and their residential address, the ballot paper was of large size. It became difficult to read out the names of candidates, due to use of small fonts. “Earlier, they had set up only two booths at district court. It was only after we requested that they increase them to four,” Uday Dable told TOI.
 
 
