Visakhapatnam: The state government has upgraded eight   (KGBV) in north coastal AP as junior colleges, which will start functioning from the 2018-19 academic year.

 Each college will get 160 residential seats with 40 students in each group of MPC, BiPC, MEC and CEC. The eights KGBVs include Kotabommali and G Sigadam in Srikakulam district, Gajapathinagaram, Vizianagaram and Cheepurupalli in Vizianagaram district, and Munagapaka, Sabbavaram and Nakkapalli in Visakhapatnam district.
 
 Earlier, the Centre accorded permission to construct additional rooms in about 171 KGBVs in AP. Now, it has been decided that civil works will be initially taken up in these 26 KGBVs, which will get the intermediate course, from the funds sanctioned to the 171 KGBVs. Salaries to the faculty, staff and diet charges to the borders will be borne by Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, which is currently operating the KGBVs.
 
 There are 352 KGBVs in AP, which offer residential education to girl students from class VI to X, with a pupil strength of about 70,000. However, despite these KGBVs achieving about 90% in class X exams every year, many parents are discontinuing their wards’ education or get them married early due to non-availability of intermediate courses in the KGBVs.
 
 A senior official from AP Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan informed that in the run-up to 2018-19 academic year, practical labs and other required infrastructure will be provided at these KGBVs to pave way for intermediate classes. “This will boost the enrolment of girl students of KGBVs in the intermediate courses as well as decrease the number of child marriages. We will recruit the faculty for the intermediate courses soon,” said the official.
 
 On the other hand, the APSSA is planning to expand its base to more mandals in the state as there is a great demand for admissions into the KGBVs. 
 
 Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalaya (KGBV) is a being implemented across the state where the female rural literacy is below the national average and the gender gap in literacy is above the national average. The scheme provides for a minimum reservation of 75% of the seats for girls belonging to SC, ST, OBC or minority communities and priority for the remaining 25%, to girls from families below the poverty line.
 
 
