ASANSOL: The violence which rocked   on Monday fanned out to   since Tuesday night, prompting police to declare a curfew in Asansol sub-division and suspending Internet services till Friday midnight. From late Tuesday night, armed men took to sthe treets vandalising around 20 shops, even setting some of them ablaze. RAF and combat forces descended on the now-deserted streets even as police alerted people to ignore rumours and lies.

 According to local sources, the violence in Asansol was triggered with a religious rally in   area in Asansol (north), home to state law and labour minister Moloy Ghatak. Sources claimed bombing was reported from the zone and several shops were looted and destroyed. The violence then spread to other pockets like Railpaar, Safi More, Barua Bazaar, Hajinagar, Chandmari, Napitpara and Ramkishan Dangal. Anxious locals started leaving their homes in panic. The administration, already stretched to contain the Raniganj violence, immediately ordered a clampdown and mobilised forces in these pockets.
 
 “There has been a concerted effort to fan violence here. CCTV footages have also captured images of provocateurs who are not locals and cannot be identified. The zone also shares inter-state borders. We are keeping a close watch on the situation. Action will be taken immediately,” said a senior officer. Asansol mayor Jitendra   alleged, “Community leaders have appealed for peace. Locals also want peace. However, some outsiders are fomenting trouble. The administration is looking for them.” Police, sources said, were also trying to reach out to religious leaders to help end the strife.
 
 A local resident, requesting anonymity, said, “The simmering tension was always there. Now it has come out in the open. People are openly attacking others. Whenever the police aren’t there, they sneak out, attack and flee. It is we who are bearing the brunt of it.”
 
 However, Raniganj, though tense, remained quiet. Police said 19 people have been arrested for Monday’s violence. The curfew declared on Tuesday continued. The Raniganj Chamber of Commerce appealed to shop owners and businessmen to open their establishments, but only a few did and for just an hour.
 
 On Tuesday, a meeting was held at Raniganj police station, attended by Ghatak, Tewari, Asansol-Durgapur police commissioner Laxmi Narayan Meena, former Raniganj MLA   and councillors   and Mir Kasim, along with community representatives. Since the belt has six examination centres, the priority would be to transport examinees for their second language test on Thursday. The second decision taken was to immediately repair the damaged shops in the Raniganj belt and compensate the losses. Tewari said, “The situation is normal in Raniganj, but tense in Asansol. We are assessing the damages. From Thursday, the corporation will start repairing the shops.”
 
