MADURAI: Disappointment turned to frustration for many devotees who thronged the   temple on Saturday as the   phones inside the temple came into force. The devotees had to brave long queues and some confusion while undergoing the exercise of handing over phones and collecting them.

 Counters with locker facilities were set up at the west and north towers where temple staff collected the mobile phones and issued tokens. A sum of Rs 10 was collected for keeping a phone for 4 hours and a slip also issued for the same. On returning to the counter, a devotee had to produce the token as well as the signed slip to receive the phones. The limited locker facilities could accommodate only 1,000 phones leading to long queues where many devotees turned restless. 
 
 Meenakshi temple joint commissioner,  , said that the mobile holding facility would be expanded from the existing 1,000 at a time to 2,500 from Sunday. Three more counters will also be opened to ease the crowd at the existing counters in west and north towers, he said. 
 
 There was some confusion at the counters as the locker facilities were established at the footwear collection centres leaving no separate queues to deposit and collect the phones. As the procedure took some time, some devotees decided to leave instead of going inside the temple. Many people who came to collect their phones also did not have pens to sign and many were at the ‘mercy’ of a few who were thoughtful enough to bring a pen along. 
 
 M V Rajappan from   was seen collecting more than 25 mobile phones of their team members deposited in safety lockers. “Such a system is present in major temples including Sabarimala. But the fee here is too much”, he said. Retired railway employee D Dhanasekaran from Chennai said that the temple authorities had failed to anticipate the situation. There should have been adequate counters and queue facilities. People visiting temple are made to wait for long hours”, he said. However,  , a devotee from Bhopal, said that it was a good measure by temple authorities as safety of the temple was paramount. 
 
 The decision to ban mobile phones inside the Meenakshi temple was taken considering the safety of devotees, welfare of temple and suggestions from central security forces. This was after a major fire on February 2 damaged the Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam inside the temple. After a case was filed on safeguarding the temple, the Madurai bench of Madras high court issued a set of directions to the government which included banning mobile phones inside the temple. 
 
