NEW DELHI: The Special Cell of Delhi Police has arrested a key supplier of weapons to the city’s criminals and seized a large   of   and ammunition from him. Apart from 32 pistols and spare magazines, police have recovered an automatic carbine from the suspect.

 The accused, Nanak alias Rahul (26), is an expert in manufacturing sophisticated weapons and had a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, DCP (special cell) Pramod Kushwaha said. Madhya Pradesh Police had also declared a reward of Rs 5,000 on him. Rahul is a native of Barwani in MP.
 
 Of late, police had identified several areas, like Barwani, Burhanpur and Khargone districts of MP, from where Delhi criminals were procuring weapons. “After getting information about this arms syndicate, a special team led by ACP Govind Sharma was formed to bust it,” Kushwaha said.
 
 In the last few months, five gunrunners — Arshad, Mobai, Kailash, Madhav and Rifaqat — were arrested. Recently, 56 pistols were seized from a module. Probe revealed that Rahul was a key player in the racket.
 
 Several raids were conducted, but Rahul managed to give the cops the slip. He was in search of new receivers in wake of the recent arrests by Special Cell. He was also getting desperate to sell his mounting inventory of illegal firearms.
 
 On January 1, cops received a tip-off that Rahul had contacted some receivers in outer Delhi and adjoining areas of Haryana. “He had decided to deliver the consignment himself at Mukarba Chowk. A team comprising inspectors Sanjay and Rajesh stood in disguise near the spot and Rahul was apprehended with two bags containing 30 sophisticated semi-automatic pistols and a carbine,” Kushwaha said.
 
 During interrogation, Rahul disclosed that he got involved in manufacturing and supply of illegal firearms five years ago. His father and elder brother were already engaged in this trade. He charged around Rs 15,000 for a pistol and sold a carbine for Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Cops are now looking for other members of this syndicate. Carbines were seized from two other criminals in November and December.
 
 
