MOHALI: The   is all set to introduce free sterilization services, vaccination and census for stray dogs in city. An   has offered the services free of cost only charging for fitting of electronic chips at existing market rates. The NGO will affix an electronic chip inside the hide of dogs. 

  will soon call for the expressions of interest from the prospective companies which can fulfill the guidelines. At present, the civic body has no clue about the population of canines roaming around freely in streets. Moreover, the MC also failed to reveal the records of pet dogs and registrations which were issued to the pet owners in city.
 
 However, the sanitation department officials have estimated the count to be around 4,500- 5,000. Kuwlant Singh, the city mayor, said, "An NGO has offered to give free services for stray dog sterilization, rabies vaccination and conducting the census of the stray dogs in city. The NGO will charge only for fitting an electronic chip in stray dog caught on the lines of prevalent market rates. We will soon call for the expression of interests for the same. 
 
 Meanwhile, work extension has been given to the existing company to carry out the sterilization process for six months." Mayor further stated that the stray dogs within the Mohali MC limits will have a unique identification number embedded on a microchip installed under their skin. "This process will create a databank on the number of stray and pet dogs in city," he added. The NGO claims that it will fix a chip which will contain complete information about the animal and will also be helpful in conducting zone-wise census of the dogs. Revealing the salient features of the chip, Nilesh, the NGO representative said, "The digital identification criterion will replace the conventional cumbersome procedure of granting licenses for pets. The chip implant is an integrated circuit placed under the skin of the animal. It will allow officials to maintain complete information about the dog including age, vaccination details, owner's name and address." 
 
 He further told that the chip would be about the size of a rice grain with a 14-digit number which will employ passive radio frequency identification technology to identify the animal. "It will be injected under the neck of the animal which will be similar to administering an injection," he expressed. Mohali MC is also mulling over the plans to increase floor area of the stray dog and cattle pound by augmenting 2 acres of land to the existing facility. A plan has been prepared after identifying the land which was forwarded to local bodies department for approval.   had also given consent for allotting the land near existing dog sterilization centre subject to approval of the local bodies department.
 
 
