Anil.Gejji

 Bengaluru: Far from home and trying to make themselves acceptable, aspirants for an assembly ticket are open to exploring new ground to improve their electoral prospects.
 
 Senior JD(S) leader and former deputy chief minister P G R Sindhia, Congress MLCs M D Lakshminarayan, V S Ugrappa, and Raghu Acharya, actors Bhavana, Upendra and retired KAS officer Bheemasen Rao Sindhe, chief minister Siddaramaiah’s former secretary, are among prominent names likely to try new options. The considerable presence of their community voters and their family roots are driving them to test their luck. 
 
 The JD(S) is considering fielding Sindhia from Basavakalyana in Bidar district, 650 km from his hometown Bengaluru. The JD(S) sitting MLA Mallikarjun Khuba has deserted the party, necessitating a change. By fielding Sindhia, the party plans to take advantage of the concentration of Maratha votes in the segment.
 
 The party feels Sindhia’s rapport in the constituency — he was Bidar district in-charge minister in the 90s — will stand him in good stead. “As of now, nothing has been finalized, but there is a proposal that I should contest from Basavakalyana,” Sindhia admitted.
 
 Likewise, Congress MLC, M D Lakshminarayana, a native of Koratagere in Tumakuru district, is contesting from Belagavi South constituency. He belongs to the weaver community and Belagavi South has around 40,000 voters from the community. “It is the decision of the party to field me from Belagavi South as a majority of voters here belong to Ahinda groups,” said Lakshminarayana, who moved his family to Belagavi four months ago.
 
 The constituency is a bastion of the Maharashtra Ekikarana Samithi (MES) and the Congress is backing Lakshminarayana by pumping sufficient funds under various government schemes.
 
 Another Congress MLC, Ugrappa, a native of Tumakuru, has set his eyes on Molakalmuru assembly segment in Chitradurga, while Congress MLC Raghu Acharya, a native of Mysuru, is also trying for a ticket from Chitradurga. Actor Bhavana is also seeking a ticket from the same seat. She has family roots there.
 
 A few political greenhorns are also trying their luck by choosing to contest elections from far-flung constituencies. JD(S) has nominated Javeed as its candidate from Ramdurg in Belagavi district. A realtor who operates from Bengaluru and Hubballi, Javeed has been nurturing the constituency for four years. “I am not an outsider here as it is my grandfather’s native place. My relatives are still here,” Javeed said.
 
 Successful outsiders 
 
 Minister Umashree who is from Bengaluru won from Terdal constituency in Bagalkot
 
 Minister Santosh Lad, who is from Ballari, has been representing Kalaghatagi constituency in Dharwad district for the past 10 years
 
 Ramanagara has become the home turf for H D Deve Gowda’s family although they hail from Holenarasipura in Hassan district 
 
 Although from Uttara Kannada district, Ramakrishna Hegde won from Basavanagudi in Bengaluru
 
 Aravind Limbavali, from Bagalkot district, has been winning from Mahadevpura constituency in Bengaluru
 
 S M Krishna won from Chamarajpet in Bengaluru, although he is from Mandya district
 
 
