BHOPAL: A day after the body of 27-year-old nanotechnology researcher   was found in Upper Lake, his uncle and a cousin reached Bhopal from Ranchi on Monday and performed his last rites at  .

 Neelotpol’s parents and his younger sister could not attend the cremation, but his father’s colleagues at BHEL, Bhopal, did.
 
 Neelotpol, who completed his BTech and MTech in nanotechnology from Amity University, Noida, had enrolled for a six-month research training course at CSIR-AMPRI in Bhopal since September 2017.
 
 His father Nirmilendu Sarkar is an assistant general manager in BHEL, Haridwar. He is currently bedridden with severe lung infection and is admitted at a hospital in Delhi. His mother is a doctor, while his younger sister is pursuing her graduation from a Noida university.
 
 Neelotpol had gone missing from his rented accommodation in Saket Nagar in Bagsewania last Wednesday. His landlord got worried and informed police, who found what looked like suicide notes all over his room on Friday night. His body was found the next morning.
 
 Neelotpol ’s uncle   and a cousin reached Bhopal on Monday after receiving the information and took his body from Hamidia hospital. His post-mortem was conducted at Hamidia on Sunday. As Neelotpol’s father did his initial management training at BHEL Bhopal, his colleagues too attended the cremation.
 
 Neelotpol’s landlord Phuleshwar Sahu said that the researcher had shared a selfie with a gold ring on his Facebook account just before his disappearance. He had probably bought the ring for his gay partner, say police.
 
 Although Neelotpol used to pay rent on time, this month he delayed it for a week citing some problem in the family.
 
 However, when his uncle enquired from his mother, she said that she had sent Rs 40,000 in February — twice what she sent every month — on his request. “He might have spent the money to buy the ring,” added Sahu.
 
 Sahu also said that Neelotpol always carried a backpack and a tablet. Both the items are missing. Amelendu said that Neelotpol never told about his sexual orientation to his family and they never took him to any psychiatrist. The family has no clue about his partner.
 
 Before disappearing, he left a number of notes written on paper posted all over the wall of his room. He also posted a video entitled ‘Final Note’ on his Facebook account in which he had filed the notes. After watching the video, his friends on Facebook started a search for him. They left messages for him to return and also announced the message on radio channels. He was not attending classes for the past two days before disappearing. His mother posted a video requesting him to come back on his Facebook account.
 
 On Sunday morning, his body was recovered from the Upper Lake. He had pasted a paper slip mentioning his name, local address and mobile number on his wrist.
 
