JALANDHAR: On a fresh and consolidated petition seeking de-registration of   (Badal), the Delhi high court on Wednesday issued notices to the Election Commission, Akali Dal and five other respondents, including Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee ( ) and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).

 The fresh petition has been filed by Malta Boat Tragedy Probe Mission chairman and social activist Balwant Singh   and another activist Om Singh Satiana through their counsels Prashant Bhushan, Indira Unninayar, Narayan Krishan and Bibin Kurian. The petition was heard by the bench of the Delhi high court Acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar.
 
 The   state election commission, gurdwara election commission and directorate of gurdwara elections have also been respondents in the case.
 
 Notices issued to Akali Dal, Election Commission, SGPC, DSGMC,and three others
 
 Octogenarian Khera, who has been pursuing the issue since 2004, had earlier filed a plaint with the Election Commission asking for de-registration of SAD (Badal) alleging that it had violated the secular fabric of the country. He had filed a PIL in the Delhi high court in 2010, which had reached an advanced stage. Advocate Unninayar told TOI that HC had earlier given them the liberty to withdraw the earlier petition and file a fresh and consolidated petition.
 
 The petition argued that the SAD fraudulently claimed in 1989 that it was secular when it sought registration by fabricating an entire document that it called ‘Rules and Regulations (Constitution)’ with the requisite undertaking that it was secular. At the same time, the SAD withheld its real constitution (of 1974) and that it used to contest Sikh gurdwara elections to the SGPC and the DSGMC. This constitution allowed only adult Sikh men and women into its membership and espoused the Sikh religion. It also lacked the requisite undertaking for registration as a political party, the petition has argued.
 
 It has also claimed that the party has committed several such frauds or a ‘series of frauds’ and fabrication of documents in order to remain qualified as a valid political party. It also fabricated documents to claim that another political party the SAD (Badal) had merged into it in 1995 and thereafter, uses both parties to participate in gurdwara elections in order to control and consolidate the Sikh electorate by exploiting religious sentiments.
 
