Udhagamandalam: ‘Black and white’ film   communicated very well. Colour photography is bright, but lacks emotion to connect, says Subodh Poddhar, renowned visualiser and illustrator.

 Poddhar, producer of the first Indian emotional advertisement, was in Ooty to attend the 17th annual day of Light and Life Academy at Lovedale. In a freewheel talk with TOI, he shared his experiences as an artist.
 
 “In the ‘black and white’ era, people were talented. When shooting in black and white, you see colour through the lens, but the film is recording black and white. Hence the camera man’s vision of the greys and his judgment were tremendously challenging. For example, if you see old movies it is limiting yourself with the greys. And the emotions communicated so well. Later, in colour photography you needed to think about colours. Now, in the digital era, your job is easier and errors can be corrected in post-production. As a result, your expectations as an artist has fallen as you are not pushing your limits.” 
 
 A visualiser, illustrator, painter, writer,   and an artist, Poddhar, when asked about his first jingle, says, “My first jingle was for Godrej Storewell. Godrej was the leader, but still to make its position safe we needed to sell the product. There I thought of selling emotion. Thus came the advertisement of staking the happiness of a newborn baby in a storewell – Godrej.” He adds, “That happened to be the first Indian emotional advertisement.”
 
 Having started his career in 1978 as a visualizer, Poddhar delved into illustration, jingle production, writing, photography in the past four decades. And now he is into sculptures. “As an artist, I discovered myself at every stage of my life. Initially, my job was to illustrate somebody’s visuals. Later, there was demand for drawings, and I did it. Opportunities came to me and I utilised them,” says Poddhar. 
 
 The artist is also the producer of the famous Santoor soap advertisement, besides Amul and many other brands. “Here, the soap was already doing well. The challenge was to sell it better. We brainstormed again. I had to give an added benefit. There I conceived the idea of ‘looking young’.”
 
 “After retirement, I am trying out various media like sculptures. I feel that I have become a child again and am working with mud and stones,” he says.
 
 Poddhar is also writing for a commercial movie. “In the meantime, I suddenly got a chance from TOI for Agent Rana. I love sketching for Rana”.
 
 Asked about today’s music, he says, “Today’s music is good quality wise. But they are frivolous. You don’t remember one from the other. Originality is lacking. In the olden days, no two songs were alike. Now all music is sounding the same.” 
 
 
