JAIPUR: Finally, the long wait of five years has ended, with the government receiving permission from   (MCI) to start five   in the state.

 It has come as a major boost for medical education as this would add 500 more MBBS to the existing ones. Currently, there are 2,600 UG seats in the state colleges and 500 more will be added to this.
 
 The Centre had announced seven medical colleges for the state in 2013-14. But since these proposed medical colleges failed to fulfil the norms of MCI, the agency had not given the nod for the past five years. During a recent inspection, the MCI found five proposed medical colleges in the state to have complied with the norms and has consequently given the approval.
 
 According to the medical education department’s figures, over the past four years, 1,000 new UG seats have been allocated to the state, 250 in government and 750 in private medical colleges.
 
 “From the academic session of 2018-19, these five medical colleges will become operational,” said Anand Kumar, principal secretary, medical education.
 
 On May 15, the MCI had issued a letter of permission to establish 13 new medical colleges for 2018-19 across the country. Out of the 13, five of them are in Pali, Dungarpur, Churu, Bharatpur and  . “To my knowledge, this for the first that a state has received permission for five medical colleges in a year from the MCI. It has never happened,” said Kumar.
 
 Rajasthan will now have 13 government medical colleges as there are eight existing colleges in the districts of Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Udaipur, Ajmer, Bikaner, Jhalawar along with the   in Jaipur. Kumar said that they have constructed the buildings of medical colleges, purchased medical equipment and recruited teachers.
 
 The new colleges are expected to improve medical and healthcare facilities in Pali, Dungarpur, Churu, Bharatpur and Bhilwara and lower the burden of existing and overcrowded medical colleges.
 
 Out of the seven proposed medical colleges, the two proposed in Barmer and Sikar have not received MCI’s permission.
 
 
  
 
