KOCHI: It’s a tournament that has long lost its relevance in All-India Football Federation’s (AIFF) pecking order, yet for football-crazy Malayalis the   National Football Championship remains one of their most cherished contests. The euphoria that followed Kerala’s triumph in Kolkata on Sunday exemplifies Malayali’s love for the national championship.

 The Indian Super League may have caught the fancy of football fans in the state but there are only a handful of Kerala players in the glamorous league. It is here that Kerala’s victory in the finals of Santosh Trophy assumes significance. The biggest gain for the state from this tournament is that they have unearthed a talented bunch of footballers who could go on to become the stars of Indian football in the future.
 
 Indications are that Jithin MS, Kerala’s top-scorer in the tournament, has already caught the eyes of East Bengal and Kerala Blasters management. “It’s time our players start dreaming of playing at a higher level. Apart from earning a job and a fixed salary, our players should aim big and take their game to the next level by playing professional football. I know such a culture is yet to reach Kerala but Santosh Trophy win might just kick-start that trend,” said I M Vijayan, former India captain.
 
 
 The key to Kerala’s success in the tournament lies in the identification of these talented players. The preparations for the tournament too began early, in November last year, when the first batch of 35 players from the inter-district football championship were selected for a camp. Later, the players who represented Kerala last year were added to the camp held in January. “The selection process was similar to that of the past but this time we made it more extensive. 
 
 Apart from selecting players from the interdistrict level, we decided to include five footballers who played for   team which won the All India Inter-University Championship,” said V P Shaji, former   and member of the selection panel which also included Salim, Renji Jacob, former India international Xavier Pius and former India U-17 coach Narayana Menon.
 
 
 The decision to include talented players from Calicut University helped immensely as the likes of Afdal VK, Anurag PC, and Jithin MS played a key role in Kerala’s title run in Kolkata. Moreover, it helped that Kerala team’s current coach   was also the coach of Calicut University team, and his knowledge of the players helped them realise their true potential. “When we beat Bengal in the group stage the team was overjoyed and there was a big celebration in the dressing room. But I told them that we can celebrate like this only if we defeat Bengal at Salt Lake in the final. The boys followed the advice and did an encore in the final,” said Balan.
 
 
 The Santosh Trophy may now be a tournament played by non-professional players but the title win may throw the doors open to the world of professional football to Kerala’s upcoming footballers. But with a full-time job being the priority for most of them, the question is whether these footballers would take a plunge into the world of professional football, which has of late become a career option in itself.
 
