SHIMLA: Even as some residents of   have been protesting for the last many days on the issue of shifting of subdivision to Thunag, chief minister   during his visit to Seraj assembly constituency announced a Rs 20 crore art-cum-culture tourism centre at Janjehli to tap ample opportunities in tourism sector. The proposed centre will include an amphitheatre, theme parks, tourist information centre, parks, etc. He also announced a Rs 5 crore eco-tourism project at Janjehli to help raise the livelihood of local people and to open more avenues of employment. 

 Both Janjheli and Thunag are part of Seraj assembly segment. During his visit to the constituency,   reiterated the need to have a dialogue to solve the Janjehli row amicably. He said that nothing beneficial was going to come out if certain persons keep on misguiding the people of area. He said that burning the effigies and raising slogans was not the culture of people of his constituency. “Apart from the furore created by a few like-minded people, I still invite them for an amicable solution,” he added.
 
 Addressing a public meeting at Kadaun, Jai Ram emphasised the need to promote unexplored areas from tourism point of view. He said that Chiuni, Shattadhar and Spenidhar would be developed under an eco-tourism project, adding that to give boost to religious tourism Shikari Mata, Kamrunaag, Tungashi Dhar and other places would be brought under the religious tourism circuit. He said that there were many places in Seraj having beautiful landscapes and the government would ensure that they no more remain virgin lands and were thrown open to tourists. Special emphasis would be laid for diversifying tourists in unexplored areas, he said. 
 
 The chief minister said the state government would develop 22 eco-parks under Compensatory Afforestation Fund Management and   (CAMPA) during the next three years and at least 25 new sites would be allotted for development under eco-tourism. He said that under the new scheme, ‘Nayi Rahein, Nayi Manzilen’, as proposed in the budget, stress would be on improving the road infrastructure, transport, parking slots and other basic amenities in identified virgin destinations for which Rs 50 crore had been proposed in this fiscal. 
 
 Earlier, while addressing the people at Lambathach, he announced upgrading of Government High School at Nihri-Sunaah to Government Senior Secondary School. 
 
 
