Mumbai: Devendra Fadnavis is facing arguably the biggest political crisis of his three years as chief minister. Already caught between growing Dalit aggression and upper-caste right-wing Hindutva assertiveness, he cannot be pleased with reports emanating from the heartland that the Maratha Maha Sangh is planning to revive its pro-reservation stir across the state next month.

 Simultaneously, the Maratha community’s demand that the Anti-Atrocities Act should be toned down is making Dalit organisations restive, according to political observers.
 
 A sizeable section in the state BJP is of the view that the Sharad Pawar-led NCP is closing in on Fadnavis chiefly because he is a Brahmin. “It is politically convenient for them to dub the Fadnavis government casteist as the CM belongs to the Brahmin community,” said a state BJP veteran, adding, “The NCP is playing the Maratha card to perpetuate the caste conflict in Maharashtra.”
 
 Arjun Dangle, a key Dalit strategist and writer who heads the Dalit Jan Shakti Sanghatana, was quick to rebut the BJP charge against Pawar. “In fact, Pawar was the first to issue an appeal for communal harmony and peace,” he said.
 
 Sources said the BJP is worried on two counts: First, the unprecedented show of strength by Dalits across the state on Wednesday. Life came to a standstill in many districts, including Pune, Satara, Kolhapur, Jalgaon, Aurangabad and coastal Konkan too — regions that are considered bastions of traditional political parties such as the BJP, Shiv Sena, Congress and NCP.
 
 Second, that the simmering caste conflict, largely considered a rural issue, should cripple Mumbai for a good 10 hours has sent alarm bells ringing in the BJP, given the city's status as the country's financial capital, said observers.
 
 BJP national president Amit Shah is reported to be closely monitoring the situation in Mumbai. The party high command asked Fadnavis in the early hours of Wednesday to handle the law and order situation calmly, it is learnt.
 
 “This explains why the Mumbai police did not come down heavily on Dalit protesters on the city’s streets,” said a key party functionary. “The whole idea was to let them vent their spleen,” he added. He admitted that the well-oiled networking of Dalits across Mumbai was “amazing”. “A lot of planning seems to have gone into the stir,” he said.
 
 Many in the BJP admit that the party is paying a price for failing to curb the hawks who keep blowing the Hindutva trumpet with scant regard for the state’s inclusive character.
 
 Meanwhile, Bharatiya Republican Party chief Prakash Ambedkar, who spearheaded—with ample backing from 12 Dalit groups—the statewide bandh, has made matters difficult for Fadnavis by demanding that Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote should be arrested and tried under Section 302 of the IPC.
 
 Bhide of the Shiv Pratishthan, and Ekbote of the Hindu Ekta Parishad have been accused by the opposition Congress-NCP combine, Left parties and Dalit bodies, of fanning communal hatred on the eve of the Mahar conclave at Bhima Koregaon, near Pune, on Monday. “The Dalit stir will continue as long as the two Hindutva fanatics are not packed off to jail,” said Dangle. “Bhide had the cheek to hold a workshop in a state-run zilla parishad school in Bhima Koregaon during Diwali vacation last year to spread his communal agenda,” Dangle added.
 
 However, the BJP may find it difficult to order a crackdown on the two Hindutva functionaries, given their links with the Sangh parivaar, sources in the party said. “Both Bhide and Ekbote have a large following in western Maharashtra and Pune because of their tireless efforts over the years to propogate the teachings of Samarth Ramdas (a medieval saint-poet) and Shivaji Maharaj,” said a state BJP functionary.
 
 “Moreover, Bhide was not in Bhima Koregaon when trouble broke out in the village. He was in Sangli and had gone to offer condolences to (senior NCP leader) Jayantrao Patil who lost his mother recently,” he pointed out.
 
 Bhide is also said to be close to Sena president Uddhav Thackeray. However, Matoshree has maintained a stoic silence on the Dalit bandh and the Bhima Koregaon imbroglio. Neither did Saamna pen, as is its wont, an acerbic editorial nor did Thackeray issue a statement on the issue.
 
 
