Indian-origin Bharat Masrani, CEO of the large Toronto-headquartered  , goes vivid discussing cricket. Though he does enjoy the more popular T20 format, Masrani reminisces the time when test matches used to be all the rage.

 
 "The current Indian team is terrific but I remain an all-time fan of  . I still remember watching test cricket matches in my younger days and how I was always a fan of the Indian team. Cricket and Bollywood have continued to bind our diaspora living across distant lands for generations," says Masrani, who heads an 85,000-strong global workforce.
 
 With roots in modern day Gujarat, his ancestors had moved to east Africa. Born in Uganda, Masrani did his early schooling there before following his elder brother to the UK for secondary schooling. He still remembers the tough times his family faced when people from the Indian sub-continent were expelled by   in 1972.
 
 "It was a life-altering event for us and very difficult for the family, both financially and emotionally. My family was well-established in Uganda but had to flee. My family members joined us in the UK – a natural choice for refugees back then," recalls Masrani, who visited the US and   after finishing his schooling.
 
 While visiting a family friend in Montreal, he fell in love with the beautiful city and decided to study at McGill University. With his French skills proving to be a hindrance, however, Masrani chose to move to Toronto and study at York University instead.
 
 "I did my under-graduation followed by an MBA degree and also met my wife here. I joined TD Bank's commercial lending trainee programme thereafter. Having witnessed the situation in Uganda, I convinced myself that banking is where I would like to make my career," recounts Masrani, who did not follow his beloved brother into entrepreneurship.
 
 Despite this decision, he always looked up to the elder sibling for his drive and go-getter attitude. Masrani counts him as the biggest mentor and motivator he has ever had.
 
 "I shared a special relationship with him. Our father had passed away when I was around seven years old. Being twice my age then, he became very protective of me – like a father figure. When we grew up, he was like a big brother. Over the past 20 years, we were best friends to each other. We spoke daily and got together once or twice a year.
 
 "Although he couldn't finish high school, he reinvented himself and was successful in setting up diverse businesses. Even after losing all that we had, my brother not only re-established the family's stature but also secured financial stability for all of us. He was a hard charging individual, who was very positive in his outlook," shares Masrani, who could have dropped out of school during the hard times had it not been for his brother's constant motivation.
 
 As for some of the reasons why there is this growing tribe of global CEOs having Indian-origins, Masrani feels that it's about hard work, having a great set of values, educating oneself and cultural alignment. 
 
 "Through circumstance or immigration, so many Indians have been leaving the country to work or study abroad. So, it's not surprising at all to see an increasing number of CEOs having Indian origins. Until a generation ago, their number was smaller.
 
 "Then the environment changed and technology, globalisation ushered in a wave of opportunity. India became a big market too, which created a brand in itself. We also have some great schools like the IIMs and IITs," says Masrani, who's own family is now spread out across the globe.
 
 For a business leader instrumental in making TD one of the most successful and diverse banks across north-America, Masrani remains a true 'desi' at heart. He still enjoys watching Bollywood movies once in a while with his wife and speaks with his mother only in Gujarati.
 
 "My siblings and I were born in Africa but we still love Indian movies, food and are proud of our roots. As the saying goes, you can take a lot out of somebody but you cannot take the 'Indianness' out of an Indian," he quips.
 
