MUMBAI: Several international STEM students hoping to work in the   (US) for a longer duration suddenly find their wings clipped, owing to an interpretation of employers obligations by US immigration agency. Their training experience can now only be inhouse at the employer's own work site, which will dent opportunities to work for tech or business consultancies. 

 The   ( ), has recently set out extensive explanations on its website as to what constitutes a bonafide employer-employee relationship and on an employer’s obligations. 
 
 International students are eligible for a 12 month optional practical training (OPT) under which they can work in the US. Those, who have completed their degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) are eligible to apply for a further OPT extension of 24 months. STEM students under the OPT are often recruited by consulting companies in the technology or business management sectors.
 
 The recent explanations by USCIS apply to the STEM OPT extensions. USCIS has spelled out that such students cannot work at the employer’s client sites, which will make it difficult for students to find suitable employers. Going a step further, many students after finishing their OPT under an F-1 visa status obtain an H-1B sponsorship, and if they get an H-1B visa they continue working in the US. Now, even their future prospects could be hampered.
 
 The STEM OPT program has always been a formal training program. Both the student and the employer were required to sign Form I-982 affirming their commitment to the training. However, the rules issued in 2016 did not debar work at a client site. Thus, the recent USCIS interpretation has come as a rude shock.
 
 Social media sites are abuzz with discussions by anxious students who have already obtained an OPT extension and are working at client sites. There appears to be no clarity on whether the new interpretation would also apply to them.
 
 Emily Neumann, an immigration attorney in the US and partner in the law firm of Reddy & Neumann, says: “Immigration practitioners have yet to see any application of this policy to those students already placed at clients sites. However, US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has recently developed a portal in the SEVIS system, which allows STEM OPT students to directly input information regarding their employment and training progress. I would not be surprised if this information is also used to monitor for compliance. I also anticipate more scrutiny on STEM OPT time during H-1B adjudications for those students that apply for a change of status from F-1 to H-1B.” SEVIS is a web-based system for maintaining information on international non-immigrant students in the US.
 
 USCIS in its guidelines relating to ‘The employer’s training obligations’ states that “The training experience must take place onsite at the employer’s place of business or worksites to which   (ICE) has authority to conduct site visits to ensure the OPT requirements are being met. It adds that “The training experience may not take place at the place of business or worksite of the employer’s clients or customers because ICE would lack authority to visit such sites.”
 
 Adds Neumann, “Via site visits, ICE monitors an employer’s compliance with the STEM OPT rules and requirements. DHS has the ability to deny STEM OPT extensions with employers that DHS determines have failed to comply with the regulations. In addition, failure to comply with the regulatory requirements related to the STEM OPT extension may result in a loss of status for the student.” 
 
 Further, employers who permitted those under an OPT program to work remotely will no longer be able to do so. USCIS explains: “The employer may not fulfill its training obligation to provide a structured and guided work-based learning experience by having the student make periodic visits to the employer’s place of business to receive training, while the student is actually working at the place of business or worksite of a client or customer of the employer. For the same reason, online or distance learning arrangements may not be used to fulfill the employer’s training obligation to the student.”
 
  “The personnel who may provide and supervise the training experience may be either employees of the employer, or contractors who the employer has retained to provide services to the employer. They cannot be employees or contractors of the employer’s clients or customers. Again, the employer that signs the Form I-983 must be the same entity that provides the practical training experience to the student, utilizing its own personnel,” adds the USCIS.’
 
 “Whether such a change in interpretation can be accomplished through a simple website update with no advance notice remains to be seen,” says Neumann. The United States is already seeing a drop in the number of international students with fewer student visa applications. Only 47,302 student visas were issued to Indian students during the twelve month period ending September 30, 2017 period as compared to 65,257 visas in the earlier twelve month period. This drop of 27% signifies a lower interest in an education from US universities. Among international students, engineering, maths and computer science degrees are extremely popular. If OPT opportunities narrow down, the incentive to study in the US may drop further.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
