 JODHPUR: The state government has constituted a cabinet sub-committee headed by home minister Gulab Chand Kataria to study the Justice Jasraj Chopra commission report on the Mehrangarh temple tragedy, in which 216 young lives had been wiped out in a whiff on September 30, 2008. This committee will advice the government about the recommendations in the report to be adopted and implemented, followed by which the action will be taken. The information was given by the secretary (home) Manish Chouhan to the division bench comprising justice Sangeet Lodha and justice Virendra Kumar Mathur on Monday. 

 "The sub-committee would be studying the report, based on the opinion of which, it would be decided that which recommendation by the commission in the report be implemented and how", Chouhan told the court. The high court had sought the reply from the state government in pursuance of a petition by Manaram, secretary of the Mehrangarh Dukhantika Sangharsh Samiti, which had been demanding from the state government to make the report public since long.
 
 He further stated that the state government has already constituted a State Level Fair Authority with 21 members headed by the cabinent minister for tourism and this authority would be looking inot the all the measures, required to be taken to ensure safety and security during the fairs.
 
 He said that 102 fairs have been recognized in the state and a request has been communicated to them to get themselves registered with the authority. Of these 42 mela committees have been already registerded with the authority.
 
 Replying from the government's side, AAG P R Singh told the court that as per section 3 of the Inquiry Commission Act, the state government is not bound to make the report of any commission public.
 
 "It is entirely government's discretion, whether the report be made public or not. But what is important is to understand and test the recommendations in the report and implement them, if and when necessary," Singh argued.
 
 After the arguments, the court deferred the hearing till April 23. The petitioner's counsel will be submitting its reply on that day in the light of the government's arguments. 
 
 
