PATNA: Elaborate arrangements have been made in Patna for the three-day   celebrations beginning April 23 to mark the   that was led by Veer  .

 An imposing equestrian statue of Kunwar Singh, relocated to the 102-year-old Hardinge Park (also known as Shaheed Veer Kunwar Singh Azadi Park), will be inaugurated by chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar at a function on Monday. The bronze statue, which earlier stood on a pedestal at the R-Block roundabout, shows Singh astride a horse, holding its reins in one hand and brandishing a sword in the other.
 
 Patna district magistrate Kumar Ravi, SSP Manu Maharaaj and other officials reviewed the ongoing Vijayotsav preparations at the Hardinge Park which wore a festive look on Sunday evening.
 
 According to urban development and housing department principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad, “The Kunwar Singh statue has been refurbished and installed on a multi-tier pedestal in front of the main entrance of the sprawling garden. Surrounding the pedestal are four walls on which the life of the freedom fighter has been depicted on sandstone panels. The old rock garden has also been repainted and a water fountain installed.”
 
 Incidentally, Singh’s statue, which earlier stood on a pedestal at the R-Block roundabout, neighbouring the iconic park, was inaugurated in the 90s by the then CM Lalu Prasad. The traffic island also had a gushing fountain.
 
 A 30-minute laser show, another facility to be inaugurated by the CM on the premises of Hardinge Park, revolves around the life of Kunwar Singh. Developed by a Bengaluru-based firm, the show will be organized on all the three days.
 
 Besides, a series of cultural programmes will be held at the S K Memorial Hall to mark Vijayotsav celebrations. Artists like Malini Awasthi, Nitu Kumari Nutan and Usha Kumari, among others, will regale the audience with their performances on Day 1. 
 
 Born in the late 18th century in the then Shahabad region, Singh staged a rebellion against the British forces in 1857, nearing the age of 80. He died in 1858 and his legend is still told and retold through literature, songs and folklore.
 
 
