MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences ( ) Act   on Tuesday convicted and sentenced a 47-year-old Cuffe Parade resident to 20 years’ imprisonment for repeatedly   his 12-year-old   and insisting that she act in   films. When the child had reported the crimes to her mother she, in turn, had refused to believe her and beaten her up. The child had even attempted suicide. 

 
 Among those to depose were the girl and her maternal grandmother. 
 
 She was 16 years old in 2016 when she deposed before the court. She said told the court that her biological father and her mother had separated when she was a year old. At the time of her deposition, she was living in a shelter home. 
 
 The girl said she lived with her maternal grandmother until she was 10 years old and later came to stay with her mother after she married the accused in 2002. The minor said that while she slept with her mother and younger step-brother on the ground floor of the house, the accused slept on the mezzanine floor. 
 
 The girl said that some time in 2012, the accused slept next to her and raped her. She said that she wanted to scream for help but the accused gagged her. The following morning the girl told her mother of the crime but she did not believe her. 
 
 The girl said that on January 20, 2013, when her mother was not at home, the accused once again raped her and threatened to kill her. The minor said she reported the crime to her mother who beat her up this time.
 
 The minor said the accused even began to insist that she act in porn films to make him money. She said her mother, too, continued to physically assault her for “lying” about her husband. The girl said that fed up, she drank phenyl on May 5, 2013, and was hospitalized. 
 
 The survivor said that initially she did not disclose her ordeal to the hospital staff. However, when she began to bleed on May 11, 2013, she finally confided in a nurse who, in turn, informed the cops. A case was registered with Cuffe Parade police and the girl’s statement recorded. 
 
 The child’s maternal grandmother was the other key witness to depose in the case. The grandmother said when she expressed her wish to visit the minor in the hospital after her suicide attempt, the child’s mother tried to keep her away. The woman said that when she somehow managed to gain access to the child and asked her why she had attempted suicide, the minor confided in her about the rape and told her that a complaint had been registered.
 
