NAGPUR: A gallery belonging to Isro’s   Space Exhibition Space Applications Centre was set up for the first time at   (VNIT). The gallery is part of the college’s two-day technical festival, Axis, and will conclude on Sunday evening at 6pm.

 ‘Glimpses of Indian Space Programme’ was chosen as the theme of the exhibition. About 20 static panels related to remote sensing and communication satellites as well as their applications, models of camera of Mars mission, Chandrayan-1 mission, satellite images, various satellite models and more were put on display for visitors.
 
 Volunteers also explained the make and use of the models, guided by   scientists JP Joshi and Deepak Pandya.
 
 “We see a lot of young students who are not aware of the country’s development in science. It is a common perception that astronomy is complex. But one can operate a real rocket the way they tackle a firecracker rocket during Diwali. A large part of science is only theory. We wanted to show them how it works and explain satellites through models,” said Joshi, a senior scientist and expert in designing development satellite missions.
 
 Experimental satellites launched by India in the 70s for communication, broadcasting and radio sensing — Aryabhata, Bhaskara, Apple, and Rohini — were explained by way of models. Remote sensing or earth observation is the process of obtaining information about earth’s surface without being in direct contact with it by recording reflected or emitted energy, and analysing that information.
 
 While   was launched to measure cosmic X-Rays, solar neutrons, gamma rays and for study of ionosphere, the Rohini series of experimental rockets were invented to detect the frequency of sound, and calculate the velocity required for a satellite to be launched.
 
 Oceansat helps study surface winds and depth among other things in the ocean. Mars Orbiter’s Mission, commonly explained as Mangalyaan, comes with a methane sensor, that provides information on the possibility of life. It enables study of particles, minerals and water among other things, on Mars.
 
 Communication and navigation satellites of India, from INSAT 3C launched in 202 to GSAT 17 launched in 2017, work as a disaster warning system by giving inputs on cyclone formation and enabling its tracking.
 
 Isro’s Geo portal ‘Bhuvan’ was also demonstrated during the exhibition.
 
 
