MUMBAI: A day after the civic standing committee members slammed the   administration for “randomly marking   across the city without taking citizens into confidence”, the   jumped into the fray.

 Mayor   demanded that the hawking pitches’ list be withdrawn from public domain, but the BMC refused saying that the list had been prepared as per the Bombay high court directions. The civic body also clarified that it was just a draft, so there is no question of withdrawing it. 
 
 The BMC has now decided to link the proposed licence to the hawker’s Aadhaar card to avoid manipulation.
 
 Last month, the BMC had released a list of 22,097 hawking pitches in the public domain and invited public suggestions and objections till January 31. Earlier this month, the BMC put out another list comprising 85,891 hawking pitches. BMC commissioner Ajoy Mehta said, “It is a   and citizen are most welcome to give their feedback. Based on their input, we will prepare the final list, according to the high court directive.”
 
 During a discussion in the civic general body meeting on Thursday, most corportors alleged that the hawking pitches had been marked without “application of mind and without taking the local representative into confidence”. They demanded that the list be scrapped. After hearing the members, Mahadeshwar asked the administration to withdraw the list. But the officials refused, saying public feedback had been invited on HC direction.
 
 Corporators were upset with the BMC for releasing the draft list without taking them into confidence. BJP group leader in the BMC Manoj Kotak said, “The general body is supreme; the civic administration should withdraw the list on the mayor’s direction.” 
 
 Congress corporator and Opposition leader in the BMC Ravi Raja concurred, “There is no clarity and no one is aware where exactly they are proposing pitches. People are approaching us for clarity but we too don't have information. The civic administration has not taken us into confidence.”
 
 Samajwadi Party corportator Rais Shaikh demanded action against the “errant” civic officials who released the draft list and sought a new list after a fresh survey.
 
 
 
  
 
 
