Ludhiana: As elections for various posts of the District Bar Association (DBA) are to be held on April 6, just two female candidates are contesting elections and taking up the challenge for asserting the role of women lawyers. This despite the fact that elections are to be held for the post of president, vice-president, secretary, finance secretary, and joint secretary, apart from six posts of executive members.

 Whereas one of the candidates, Roopali Mohlri, is contesting elections for the post of finance secretary, Muskan Gupta is fight elections for the post of executive member. “The main reason for few female candidates contesting elections is that they are not promoted. There are doubts cast by many on whether women can tackle finance. That is a challenge for me, and I want to prove to them that women are competent enough for any challenge, which is why I am contesting the elections,” said Roopali, who has been seeking support from both male and female advocates.
 
 She added: “If elected, my priority will be that we should have a permanent auditor and permanent accountant to manage accounts, so that there is clarity and transparency about expenditure and income. Apart from that, there are various issues related to women advocates like safety and security, reservation for them in the bar, and hygiene in the courts, which I will focus on after being elected.” She further added that last time too, only two female candidates contested elections for the post of executive members.
 
 For Muskan Gupta — the second female candidate — the safety of women advocates in the district court is the main agenda. “I have faced so many problems when I joined the court. Some miscreants would push us in the lift, and there are serious safety issues. Also, there is water problem in the women’s bar room, there is no crèche for children of lady lawyers, and no separate lift for them,” said Muskan, who has been practising in the district courts since 2015.
 
 She added: “My agenda is a separate lift for women lawyers, proper drinking water facility for us, crèche for children of female lawyers, and a separate bar for women. Also, the constitution of a sexual harassment committee for women lawyers is a must, as they do face such problems.” She further said there was a need for women’s empowerment in the district courts, so that more women come forward to fight elections.
 
 Ritika Gupta — one of the advocates in Muskan’s campaign team — said they were campaigning extensively for her, as they wanted a woman advocate to voice their problems and issues at DBA. She added that they wanted clean washrooms and other basic facilities in the district courts.
 
 
