Yesteryear actress Daisy Irani, who was Bollywood’s popular child artiste in the 1950s and 1960s, recently spoke about how her mother was determined to make her a star. Her revelation has opened a Pandora’s box, giving rise to a debate particularly in the television industry, which sees a number of child artistes put in hard work and sweat. With hundreds of channels and millions of households watching, the TV industry today is much larger than Bollywood. And, like lakhs of youngsters who relocate to Mumbai to fulfill their dreams in showbiz, even child actors and their parents are shifting base to the city in search of fame and money. Parents who could not pursue their Bollywood dreams throng casting directors’ offices, hoping that they can relive their dreams through their children.

 Rajkumar Prasad, a casting director in the industry, receives two-three queries from curious parents every day. He says, “It isn’t so much about the money than wanting to see their child on screen. More than debating on their working hours and exploitation, the emphasis should be on making the parents realise how important it is for a child to have a normal childhood.” 
 
 Amit Behl, senior joint secretary of Cine and TV Artists’ Association, says, “It’s high time we realise that we are destroying children’s innocence by making them work hard. This has to be discussed at higher levels by the Ministry of Human Resource Development. These child artistes are actors of tomorrow and their parents have to understand that there is no point in making them a part of the rat race so early on in their lives.”
 
 On the other hand, the parents cite high scores and certificates of academic excellence to argue that their child’s education is not being compromised upon. BT talks to parents of five child actors about stardom and their journey in showbiz. The one thing all of them insist on is that their kid is not suffering in any way; instead, it’s something he/she loves doing. Read on…
 
 
 
 
 
 Eight-year-old actor Ayaan Zubair Rahmani’s sister Jannat is also an actress, who debuted on TV with 'Phulwa'. So, acting was a familiar territory for Ayaan when he started shooting for 'Chandrashekar' a few months ago. The little boy shoots for the show in the day and now that he has bagged a film, he also shoots at night. Sources confirm that the child is practically living on the sets. Stories of Ayaan’s father Zubair Rahmani’s tantrums and pricey behaviour have been doing the rounds for quite some time now. Ask Zubair about it and he says, “Ayaan started acting when he was only five, so there was no question of asking him what he wanted to do in life. It is very fancy for people to comment that child actors are losing their innocence and childhood when they work on TV, but when you are a parent, and see your child becoming famous, it gives a lot of happiness. I admit, I had a desire to be an actor, but could not fulfill it. And now, I want my children to realise that dream for me, but what’s wrong in that? We go to malls and public spots and people recognise Ayaan and come asking for selfies. He works for eight hours and travels from Malad to Thane every day.”
 
 
 
  
 Akriti Sharma is the latest entrant in the long list of actors who relocate from other cities to Mumbai. The seven-year-old, who shifted base from Delhi, plays the lead on the show 'Kulfi Kumar Bajewala'. The talented child artiste seems to have found an instant connect with viewers. Her mother Dimple says, “Akriti showed keen interest in creative arts since a very young age. She had bagged several ads in Delhi and so, we felt that it was wiser to move to Mumbai, so that she could pursue her career here. We have got her admitted to a school in Mumbai. I feel that it is important to let her grow and pursue things which she is good at. We will not compromise on her education. Luckily, it is not a gruelling schedule for her either. Akriti gets time to play on the sets, if her shot is not ready.”
 
 
 
  
 Nirnay started his career last year with 'Sabse Bada Kalakar'. While he and his family were based in Indore, they moved to Mumbai after he was swamped with acting offers. The five-year-old shoots for nine-ten hours a day and does not go to school. Instead, he attends tuition at home. His mother, Deepali, says, “I do feel that his childhood is being spent on the sets and shooting for TV shows, but I find him very happy. He is young and not mature enough to choose acting as a career. We ensure that he gets rest at regular intervals.” Nirnay stays at Mira Road and travels daily to Naigaon.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 Uzair started his career when he was three years old, with a magazine shoot. He then moved on to fiction shows. Uzair, who is 12 now, has even performed heavy-duty stunts on 'Suryaputra Karn'. The young actor also got involved in a controversy when he was replaced overnight on the show, 'Vignaharta Ganesh'. However, his parents do not wish to talk about it. Shamim, Uzair’s mother, says, “We have moved on from that controversy. When Uzair got selected for shoots and commercials, we didn’t know that so many offers will pour in. Education is important, but Uzair also likes acting. So, why not let him do it? It’s not something that is forced on him just because the earnings are good. He loves meeting co-actors, interacting with them, shooting for different TV shows and he never complains. We do understand that this is his age to enjoy school, but if he continuously gets offers and his education is not compromised on, we don’t see any harm.”
 
 
 
 Seven-year-old Tamanna’s destiny changed when she became the runner-up on the reality show 'India’s Best Dramebaaz' ('IBD). The Guwahati girl then moved bag and baggage to Mumbai with her mother, Arunima Bhuyan. She is currently co-hosting DID Little Masters with actor Jay Bhanushali, and displays a rare maturity in front of the camera. Apart from the show, she frequently performs at events in Mumbai and other cities. Her mother Arunima says, “We stay in Goregaon and Tamanna travels to her set in Naigaon, but the commute isn’t a problem because the production house sends a car. After she won 'IBD', offers started pouring in, and we felt that staying back home in Guwahati would not work. It was important that we moved to Mumbai and pursued opportunities here. Tamanna goes to school and tops in most of her subjects. My husband is back home in Assam. It is tough living here, but Tamanna never tires and is passionate about her work. I think more than education, I should see where her happiness lies.”
 
