HYDERABAD: With 45,000 workers toiling in three shifts day and night, work on the gigantic   is progressing at a frenetic pace — in the process making and breaking the records of construction undertaken for massive structures worldwide. It has been learnt that for a building construction in Dubai, on a single day, 21,589 cubic metres of cement concrete was used. This record will soon be overtaken in the Kaleshwaram project construction.

 When completed, the project would provide water to irrigate 36 lakh acres in several districts. Hyderabad will get drinking water from the Yellampalli reservoir. As part of the project, the   and Ranganayak Sangar projects, which are closer to the city, will also be completed on war-footing.
 
 
 As the work was being monitored on an everyday basis by irrigation minister  , progress is noticeable at different locations.
 
 In view of summer, workers were being given butter milk and oral rehydration salts (ORS) at regular intervals during the day.
 
 There has also been a lot of interest to see the project by officials from different states and the Centre, public and groups of people that the irrigation department now even has ‘guides’ at the tourist spot that Kaleshwaram project has become. Some engineers, who are thorough with the project details and have been involved in its construction, have now been asked to be ‘guides' to the public to explain the salient features of the project.
 
 According to officials, construction major Larsen & Toubro (L&T), which is also part of the project, said that on a single day, it had used 7,000 cubic metres of cement concrete for work at Medigadda barrage. This is said to be a record for the company too, which has operations in 45 countries.
 
 As part of the relief and rehabilitation package for  , the government has planned to provide them free coaching for 45-90 days to prepare for government jobs. Jobs in private companies would be provided for those who have the requisite qualifications. Others who do not have the requisite skills will be given training so that they can fit into jobs in the private sector.
 
 
