KALABURAGI:   president   on Tuesday claimed that demonetisation was the brainchild of neither Union finance minister   nor the  , but that of the RSS. 

 Interacting with professionals and businessmen here,   asked: "Do you know where the idea of notebandi came from? It was neither the RBI nor Jaitley nor any officer in the finance ministry. It was a particular ideologue of the RSS. The RSS puts an idea in Modi's mind and he launches it."
 
 While reacting to a suggestion by a doctor to impress upon the Union government to remove clauses in the proposed medical bill which are against the interest of doctors, he said, "This (NDA) government believes people don't know anything and therefore taking unilateral decisions."
 
 This was Rahul's third attack on Modi as he wound up his four-day tour of six districts of Hyderabad-Karnataka region. Earlier, Rahul had said Modi driving by looking into the rear-view mirror and like a cricketer batting by looking at the wicket-keeper were the causes of accidents like demonetisation and GST.
 
 Rahul said the BJP and RSS were making attempts to capture all institutions in the country. "The BJP is trying to capture all institutions in India and the RSS is trying to push its people into every institution. You must have heard what Mohan Bhagwatji said," he said. (Bhagwat, during an RSS meeting at Muzaffarnagar, reportedly said the Army may take six to seven months to prepare for war but RSS cadres can prepare in just three days.)
 
 He went on: "Today, most Union ministers' officers on special duty (OSDs) are from the RSS. Even in Niti Aayog, RSS men have been planted. This is a very dangerous trend.'' 
 
 "The Congress believes these institutions belong to the people, not to workers of any political party. We want to democratise these institutions to encourage people's participation in governance. But BJP believes in bureaucratisation of these institutions to plant their men," he said. Rahul assured them that if the Congress is voted to power in the 2019   polls, it'll simplify and reform the current GST to ensure a single tax slab capped at an acceptable level. 
 
 According to him, when Congress conceptualized GST, the purpose was to simplify people's lives. "We wanted to have one GST capped at18% and keep the large number of items used by the poor and common man out of GST," he added.
 
 
