BHUBANESWAR: The February 24   has generated considerable curiosity in the state as it comes just about a year before the next assembly election. What has made the bypoll more significant is the fact that it takes place amid the BJD’s attempts to check the BJP’s emergence as a major challenger, overshadowing Congress, the ruling party’s traditional opponent.

 Recent issues such as the Koraput rape suicide and BJD MP Baijayant Panda’s fallout with his party leadership may be the main talking points during campaigning. Incidentally, Baijayant’s mother, Ila Panda, a former Rajya Sabha member, is a native of Katapali, which is part of the Bijepur assembly segment. Despite this, the BJD expects an easy win in the bypoll, which it says, will take the wind out of BJP’s ambitious ‘Mission 120+’ long before next year’s assembly election.
 
 “This is the first byelection after 2014 and presumably the last before the next general elections. It can be an opinion poll for the general elections. Given our robust organizational strength and chief minister Naveen Patnaik’s performance track record, our victory is certain. We will deflate BJP’s Mission 120+,” BJD vice-president   said. (The BJP had earlier said it would capture more than 120 of the 147 assembly seats next year)
 
 On the other hand, state BJP president Basant Panda described the bypoll as a first step towards conquering Odisha like most other states in the country. He said, “Every BJP worker understands well that Bijepur will be the first baby step to realize ‘Mission 120+,’ the target set by our party president, Amit Shah, for the next assembly election.” He added, “Three factors — anti-incumbency, deteriorating law and order and BJP’s organizational strength — will help us win.”
 
 Despite the BJD and BJP’s aggressive campaigns, the Congress seems to be hopeful of doing well in Bijepur, which the Grand Old party had won in the last three consecutive elections. “People are with us. Bijepur is a Congress bastion,” Odisha Pradesh Congress Committee president   said as he talked about the election that many describe as a direct fight between BJD and BJP. The bypoll was necessitated by the death of sitting   Subal Sahu on August 22.
 
 On Monday, BJP assigned three senior leaders, Basanta Panda, legislature party leader KV Singhdeo and former minister Jaya Narayan Mishra the task of overseeing its campaign in Barpali, Gaisilat and Bijepur segments of the constituency. BJP general secretary Ranjan Patel has been asked to look after coordination of the party’s activities there.
 
 With about 2.21 lakh voters, Bijepur falls in drought-prone Padampur sub-division of Bargarh district. In the 2017 February panchayat election, BJP performed remarkably well by winning six of the seven zilla parishads there.
 
 To expand its base in Bijepur, the BJD has nominated Subal’s widow Rita as its candidate. Besides, the chief minister has announced a series of sops — a Rs 1,250-crore irrigation project and upgradation of Bijepur panchayat to a notified area council — for the constituency. State ministers Susanta Singh and Niranjan Pujari and Prasanna Acharya have been visiting the constituency ever since it fell vacant.
 
 The BJP is likely to field former BJD MLA Ashok Panigrahi against Rita. On Tuesday, a six-member Congress team led by former chief minister Hemanand Biswal, will visit Bijepur to choose its cadidate. There are two Congress men in contention — Pranay Sahu (Gaisilat block vice-chairman) and  , who had won the seat on a Congress ticket in 1995.
 
