NAGPUR: Two gruesome murders were reported within a span of 12 hours — from Thursday late night and Friday morning — in the city under the jurisdiction of   and Ajni police stations. 

 In the first incident, a 20-year-old externed goon was murdered by his relative with a sword and knife over an illicit relationship on late Thursday night at Padole Nagar. Ravi Pawaskar, a resident of  , was allegedly murdered by his relative Akash Deshbhratar and his accomplice Akash Mandal.
 
 Deshbhratar doubted that Ravi had an illicit relationship with his wife.   police have arrested both the accused in the case following a complaint from Deshbhratar’s wife Khusboo.
 
 Deshbhratar and Khushboo got married three years ago. He grew suspicious about his wife’s illicit relationship with Pawaskar since the last three months. It is learnt that Deshbhratar had also seen some messages in his wife’s phone. On Thursday, he tried to contact Pawaskar and asked him to meet.
 
 Pawaskar was with his friend Mayur on Thursday evening, when he received a call from Deshbhratar. Deshbhratar also called Dinesh Gonekar, who was Pawaskar’s friend, and asked him to arrange the meeting.
 
 Mayur told TOI, “I warned Pawaskar several times about going to the accused’s house but he said Deshbhratar has vowed not to harm me.”
 
 Pawaskar, Dinesh and Mayur left for Deshbhratar’s house at around 9pm. However, they stopped for a drink. The trio reached the accused’s house at around 10.30pm. Deshbhratar came out crying from his house.
 
 Thereafter, Pawaskar went inside to talk. “Just two minutes after that, I heard screams. I saw Deshbhratar and Mandal attacking him with a sword. I tried to open the window but it was locked. The neighbours started to gather at the spot and I opened the door when someone tried to attack me with a sword. I fled from the spot. Pawaskar was down on floor in a pool of blood,” added Mayur.
 
 Nandanwan police rushed to the spot and arrested the duo. It is learnt that Deshbhratar and Mandal have several cases, including a murder, registered against them at different police stations. Khushboo was inside the house when the incident took place.
 
 Senior PI of Nandanwan police station, MD  , said, “Mandal and Deshbhratar were already waiting inside the house with a sword. A heated discussion broke out between them over the illicit relationship, after which they both started attacking Pawaskar. We are also investigating the role of others in the matter.”
 
 In another incident, 32-year-old Avinash   was stoned to death by three persons following drunken brawl. Moharle’s body was found on Friday morning in a stranded place at Ramteke Nagar.
 
 Police said Moharle was seen with three more persons at a paan shop. All four of them had gone to the spot but only three returned. The paan shop owner has identified two of the accused — Vicky Anthony and Montu Pal — while the third accused is yet to identified.
 
 
