BENGALURU: It was a full frontal attack on the five-year rule of the   government in Karnataka by Prime Minister   here on Sunday, saying the   administration was identified as a “10% commission government”.

 “Mujhe kuch logon ne bataya ki Karnataka ki Congress sarkar 10% ki sarkar hai (Some people told me that the Congress government in Karnataka is a 10% government),” Modi told a gathering of about two lakh people at the Bengaluru Palace grounds to mark the culmination of state   chief B S Yeddyurappa’s 85-day Parivarthana yatra. His one-hour speech in Hindi with no translation in Kannada was applauded by the crowd.
 
 Substantiating his charge against the state government, Modi said the income tax department had raided a senior Congress leader and two ministers here, where the administration was dominated by the sand mafia, transfer mafia and builder mafia. “Yahan pe scams aur mafia ka nanga naach chal raha hai’ (Here a naked dance of scams and mafia is happening),” he alleged.
 
 He commended the people of Bengaluru and BJP for stalling the proposed steel bridge project from Hotel Chalukya to Hebbal flyover as “in the name of the steel bridge some people wanted to play in crores”. “Entire country is proud of Karnataka for this,” he added.
 
 The PM said when the entire world was talking of “ease of doing business”, the Karnataka government indulged in “ease of doing murders”. “The situation is such, if anyone criticises the government, they pay with death,” he added.
 
 Modi said the solution to all these was making “Congress Mukt Karnataka”. “If Karnataka is freed from Congress, it will also mean putting an end to dynasty rule, appeasement politics and corruption,” he added.
 
 Exhorting people to vote for BJP, Modi said: “Agar Karnataka mein central schemes se fayada chahiye to BS   ki sarkar ko vote dijiye aur anukool sarkar banaiye’ (If you want central government schemes to be implemented and reach the beneficiaries then elect the BS Yeddyurappa-led BJP government to power).”
 
 Listing out central schemes for the state, Modi said his government had sanctioned 3.36 lakh houses under the PM Awas Yojana (urban), but only 38,000 houses were completed so far. 
 
 The   has proposed an investment of Rs 17,000 crore for the construction of 160-kmlong sub-urban railway network in Bengaluru, which will provide relief to 15 lakh commuters of the city, Modi said.
 
 Under the smart city mission, Rs 836 crore has been sanctioned for Karnataka of which work on Rs 143 crore is yet to commence. “A sum of Rs 309 crore is rotting in the government treasury,” Modi claimed.
 
