GANDHINAGAR: All political parties must ensure that the dignity and honour of the constitutional institutions like the courts do not get diminished under any circumstances, Union home minister   said on Thursday in Gandhinagar.

 Singh, who was here to chair the 23rd meeting of the Western Zonal Council, comprising Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa and the Union Territories of Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, told this to reporters after the meeting, in response to a query on the SC collegium.
 
 His comments came hours after the Centre asked the   collegium to reconsider its proposal to appoint   Chief Justice K M Joseph to the top court, saying the elevation might not be “appropriate”.
 
 “It is the responsibility of every political party as well as other institutions to make sure that the dignity and honour of any constitutional institution do not get diminished under any circumstances,” Singh said, while replying to a query on the Centre's decision of not approving Joseph's name as an apex court judge.
 
  “All of us, be it the ruling party or the opposition parties or any government or non-government organisation, must try to ensure that the people's trust in the constitutional institutions remains intact. This is necessary for a healthy democracy,” he said.
 
 Asked to specifically comment on Joseph, the home minister said, “I should not comment on the judiciary.”
 
 Asked about certain reports that the Kathua gang-rape incident had caused a communal rift among the people of Jammu and Kashmir, he said the government would not tolerate any such attempt to “spread hatred on communal lines and the perpetrators will be dealt with in the strictest manner”.
 
 Asked about Prime Minister  's visit to China amid tension along the border, Singh said the government believed in establishing a cordial relationship with the country's neighbours.
 
 To a question on the BJP’s 2019 Lok Sabha polls strategy, Singh said the party would fight the election on the two-pronged plank of development and good governance.
 
