More than 36 hours after an unidentified ship hit a fishing boat just 23 nautical miles off the  , the authorities concerned are yet to identify the ship involved in the accident. This is the third such incident since October last where the ship that hit the fishing vessel is not being traced.

 “Despite having all the technological advancements to trace such ships, it is sad that the fishermen are not getting justice,” said Justin Antony, president of International Fishermen Development Trust. He recalled that the ship that sunk the boat of X Antony from  , Kanyakumari district, 45 nautical miles off Beypore in Kozhikode, Kerala is yet to be identified.
 
 He said that Antony was killed while two of his fellow fishermen were rescued. Three others, including Antony’s father-in-law Remmyas of Chinnathurai and Johnson and Prince from Kerala could not be traced and are still missing. “But the missing people are yet to be declared dead,” he said.
 
 Justin Antony said that persons missing after a boat accident in the deep sea should be declared as dead by the government, when the   and other government agencies are unable to rescue them or retrieve their bodies. The death declaration could be done after obtaining a detailed statement from the fellow survivors of the boat, he added.
 
 South Asian Fishermen Fraternity general secretary Churchil expressed shock over the inability of the Coast Guard, Navy, Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre and the Director General of Shipping to trace the ships involved in such accidents.
 
 On October, 1, 2017 a ship hit a country boat in which Kumar, Franklin and another fisherman from Kanyakumari district were fishing off the Kanyakumari Coast. “The boat and fishing gear was completely destroyed but the trio survived and was rescued by another boat. The fishermen gave the location of the accident along with the name of the ship and its photograph but the ship has not been identified,” he said and added that representations made to the government agencies concerned went in vain.
 
 He said that the survivors of the Tuesday’s accident and the ship that rescued them gave the time and the location of the accident. “Survivors said it was a ship with a red tank. There could not have been many ships operating at the same location at that time. The government should immediately identify such ships and detain them before they cross the international waters,” Churchil added.
 
 He said that the details of the ships that passed through the route could easily be traced as the Automatic Identification System in the ships would have been recorded in the radar. He strongly felt that such ships should be detained and the captain and owner of the ship booked for causing death by negligence. The authorities should also ensure stringent legal punishment to put an end to such accidents involving fishing boats.
 
 
