NAGPUR: After launching WhatsApp complaint number and Twitter handle to address traffic-related problems, Nagpur traffic police are designing an indigenous mobile application for the first time in an effort to make life easy for motorists and other road users.

 From instantly registering complaints regarding haphazardly parked vehicles causing traffic jams, getting information of a towed away vehicle to finding the nearest parking spots, the app, according to Nagpur traffic police, will be a resourceful information provider for distressed motorists and commuters. The app, which is being developed by an in-house tech team of the traffic police, is expected to be launched in a week or two, across all operating systems.
 
 Though   traffic Chaitanya S refused to divulge anything about the concept, sources said: “The idea is to provide instant information to citizens on the go and also encourage them to be part of this citizen-police connect. The app will be comprehensive and user-friendly.”
 
 During peak hours, the department receives many complaints of traffic jams. “With the app, all android phone users will get updates about congested roads and the alternate routes they can use.
 
 Besides this feature, the app will also give details of towed away vehicles. When a vehicle is towed away, the occupant of the vehicle has to just feed in the number of the vehicle via the app and details of offence along with the address of the traffic post where the vehicle is kept will be displayed.
 
 Apart from this, to ease parking woes, commuters will get details of the nearest parking spot when they open the app and search location details through maps. “Finding an open parking spot is a big problem in the city. Through the app, motorists will get information of the nearest paid or unpaid parking facility,” said the source.
 
 Additionally, several other real-time traffic-related information such as emergency numbers, details of traffic offences, penalties as well as road safety rules will be displayed.
 
 “Details about traffic offences and penalty will come in handy when motorists are caught by traffic cops as they can refer the app before paying the fine,” informed the sources.
 
 The app will also have a feature whereby citizens can report about bad roads, defunct signals and also fetch information about routes, accident prone areas etc.
 
 Sources also said that along with developing the app, the team is upgrading the department’s existing website simultaneously, which will have more or less the same features. “Once the basic version of the app is launched, we will update it regularly with more citizen-friendly features based on the feedback and usage,” sources added.
 
 
