Nagpur: Three years on,   are yet to get the refund owed to them after Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) brief experiment with the base rate system. NMC’s property tax department is violating a decision by the general body to refund excess tax recovered under the base rate system.

 NMC had launched base rate system to replace rent chart in 2010-11, without obtaining required permissions. Property tax of around 1.50 lakh properties was revised to base rate for three years — 2008-09 to 2010-11. The taxpayers had to pay 3-5 times more for 2010-11 under the system, and also the difference amount for two years — 2008-09 and 2009-10.
 
 The state government imposed a stay on base rate and directed NMC to continue with rent chart in 2011-12. The government totally abolished the base rate, and suggested NMC should introduce ready reckoner based system. 
 
 Accordingly, NMC general body passed a resolution in 2015 directing the property tax department to refund excess tax collected from around 1.50 lakh taxpayers. The department was supposed to adjust the excess amount in next financial years’ property tax.
 
 It has come to fore that the department did not adjust the excess tax in next financial years’ tax for many of the 1.50 lakh taxpayers. A resident of Cosmos Town, Jaitala Road, lodged a complaint with NMC Laxmi Nagar Zone, demanding adjustment of the excess amount towards tax of 2017-18, 2018-19 and next fiscal.
 
 He was supposed to get refund of Rs 6,201. His tax was Rs 934 and department had recovered Rs 7,135 under base rate system. The department was supposed to adjust the excess amount with tax of six fiscals beginning 2015-16.
 
 NMC sources told TOI the same has happened with many of the 1.50 lakh taxpayers. “The department was supposed to adjust the excess amount automatically. But the department extended the benefit to only select taxpayers,” sources said.
 
 Ruling party leader Sandip Joshi told TOI it was very unfortunate to learn about the department’s negligence. He assured to look into the case.
 
 Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve said NMC was interested only in looting people and not extending them benefits and relief. “NMC is ready to hike taxes but never interested in paying refund to citizens,” he said.
 
 Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe said BJP-led ruling party has miserably failed to ensure implementation of general body decisions. “A BJP corporators made a statement in general body that mayor Nanda Jichkar had no control over the administration. There are many such decisions that were not implemented,” he said.
 
 An official from the property tax department said it seems to be a lapse on the part of staffers sitting at the zone-level. “Directives were given to zone offices to adjust the excess amount. I will verify all the cases,” he said.
 
 This is the second such case in last three years. TOI had, on March 28, highlighted that the department did not adjust excess amount collected under ready reckoner-rent chart tax system despite the general body’s decision.
 
 
