Pune: Co-partners of pathology laboratory chain Golwilkar-Metropolis, valued at about Rs 100 crore, have officially parted ways with each after the pending share transfer from Golwilkar to Metropolis completed on January 18, 2018. The Golwilkars have completely exited the joint-venture and all the labs that were operated under the trademark will now be operated by Metropolis Healthcare (by whatever name, as decided by the court). For now, the labs continue to be called Golwilkar-Metropolis.  Golwilkar held 30% shares and the pending 70% was held by Metropolis in the JV, which came into being in October 2005. Since the share sale, based on a court document, it is believed that Golwilkar has got somewhere between Rs 22.5 crore and Rs 30 crore for the sale of its 3,000 shares (30%) in the JV. The lower end of this price estimate is based on the discounted value offered by Metropolis to Golwilkars, for what it calls the latter’s “breach of trust.” This means that the two entities will pursue their pathology businesses separately, even as Metropolis is still pursuing the battle in the Bombay high court to retain the trademark of Golwilkar with its name.  Meanwhile, Metropolis has also accused Golwilkars of “breach of trust” and for breaching the shareholders agreement by setting up (through its former directors) and operating A G Diagnostics Pvt Ltd – what it calls is a “competing business.” The 12-year-old partnership started to turn sour in August 2017 when Golwilkar accused Metropolis of being too aggressive with its expansion plan. The two had a network of 40 collection centres in the city, which Metropolis allegedly wanted to grow to over 150 in a “very short time frame.” “This would have affected the quality of our collection and so we were dead against this,” said a Golwilkar company insider. The insider said there were differences of opinion and the two company’s strategies were at cross purposes with each other. An email sent to Metropolis seeking its reply did not elicit a detailed response. “A breach of trust by Golwilkars has led to distrust amongst us and because of ‘other disputes’ the entire matter is sub-judice and hence we cannot comment on it,” said an official spokesperson of Metropolis Healthcare. Ajit Golwilkar, the founder of Golwilkars Pvt Ltd could not be reached for comment. The Golwilkars have completely exited the joint-venture and all the labs that were operated under the trademark will now be operated by Metropolis Healthcare