HYDERABAD: Multi-drug resistant strains of sexually transmitted disease, gonorrhea, have been found by Osmania and   researchers along with scientists of ICMR-National AIDS Research Institute Pune.

 Emergence of multi-drug resistance in Neisseria gonorrhoeae is a big public health challenge in controlling sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), say experts. At least 124 strains of gonorrhea causative were isolated in past few years in Delhi, Pune, Mumbai, Secunderabad and Hyderabad to determine antimicrobial susceptibility.
 
 Research findings by Syeeda A Muqeeth of Gandhi Medical College, G   of Osmania along with others were recently published in Journal of Medical Microbiology. At least 20 cases were examined in Secunderabad and 16 in Hyderabad.
 
 
  
  
 
 Researchers said, 98% isolates of gonorrhea were resistant to ciprofloxacin, 52% to penicillin, 56% to tetracycline and 5% to azithromycin.
 
 It was found all strains were susceptible to spectinomycin, ceftriaxone and cefixime, barring two strains which showed decreased susceptibility to ceftriaxone and cefixime. “We demonstrated emergence of decreased susceptibility to ceftriaxone and cefixime and threshold levels of resistance to azithromycin in India. The findings underscore the importance of maintaining continued surveillance on antibiotic resistance to gonorrhoea and a potential need for a strategic change in guidelines in future,” researchers said.
 
  in 2017, while advising health authorities said the data from 77 countries revealed that antibiotic resistance is making gonorrhea difficult, and sometimes impossible, to treat.
 
 Decreasing condom use, increasing urbanization and travel, poor infection detection rates and inadequate or failed treatment are contributing to the increase, according to WHO.
 
 Apollo Hospitals, Hyderabad, consultant physician Dr Hari Kishan Boorugu told TOI, “Gonorrhea has increased in last two decades because of rising HIV infection. Penicillin used to be the drug of choice. However, there has been increasing resistance since late nineties. This study indicates rising resistance similar to that found in other studies from the West. Ceftriaxone is the drug of choice now, and this study warns about potential emergence of drug resistance to ceftriaxone and cefixime as well.”
 
 He said, “Though most strains are susceptible to this drug, there is a risk of an increase in resistance to ceftriaxone as it’s a commonly used drug in our country, including for typhoid. There is high resistance to other commonly used drugs like ciprofloxacin and azithromycin. We need to focus more on prevention which is essentially safe sex practices, by using condoms.”
 
 Experts said research and development for developing new drugs for gonorrhea are not favourable as only three new drugs are in clinical development stage.
 
