NEW DELHI: The   dismissed on Wednesday a plea seeking a probe by the   or an SIT into the   government’s purchase of   VIP helicopter saying there was no evidence to prove involvement of middlemen and payment of kickbacks.

 A bench of Justices A K Goel and U U Lalit also refused to give credence to the submission that one of the beneficiaries of the deal was Abhishek Singh, son of CM Raman Singh, whose name figured in the Panama Papers for allegedly having an account in a foreign bank.
 
 “There is no material to prima facie hold that beneficiary of transaction was Abhishek Singh. We do not consider it necessary to go into the allegation of mere procedural irregularities. We broadly find that no case is made out for interference by this court for issuing a direction as sought in the absence of allegation of extraneous consideration being substantiated,” the bench said. 
 
 It refused to delve into the allegation against Abhishek saying the Panama Papers issue was being probed by the Centre’s multi-agency group. The SC passed the order on petitions filed by Swaraj Abhiyan and others seeking an independent probe. 
 
 Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for them, alleged that the price paid for the chopper was in excess of the prevailing market price at that time and about 30% of the cost of the chopper was paid as commission by the Raman Singh government. 
 
 Bhushan alleged that an agreement was signed between the state government and M/S Sharp Ocean Investment Pvt Ltd on July 9, 2007 and as per the agreement the aggregate amount to be paid for the helicopter was US $6,570,000, out of which $ 2,897,800 was to be paid to the firm. 
 
 He contended that the agreement, however, was not tripartite, leaving out the most important party, Agusta, which was supposed to supply the helicopter in reality. After examining all the documents pertaining to the deal, the SC came to the conclusion that there was no hanky-panky in it and the state purchased the chopper from Sharp to ensure quick delivery.
