 are gearing up for a title party against   as they finally get their hands on the   trophy.  's side were confirmed as champions on April 15 after an incredible record-breaking season. But they haven't yet been handed the trophy itself. That will be put right on Sunday when a sell-out crowd squeezes into the Etihad to see their heroes crowned champions after the Premier League clash against relegation-threatened Huddersfield.

 
 For Raheem Sterling, one of the stars of the City team, it is going to be an emotional moment. He took a big gamble leaving   to join City and has been booed by his former fans at Anfield ever since. But this season he has been outstanding, contributing 18 league goals and 11 assists. Now he can't wait to get his hands on that trophy. Excerpts from an interview...
 
 
 
 
 It's going to be a great feeling. To win the title and be champions is great but it almost doesn't feel real at the moment because we haven't had our hands on the trophy. Now we will.
 
 
 
 It's the manager. He wouldn't let that happen. The manager has installed this mentality in us not to ease up. He wants us to have the right attitude - and it's about next season too. If we finish the season sloppy then we could start the next season sloppy. We need to finish the season strong.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, you could tell in training what he wanted. We haven't slowed down. He wants us to finish on a high and there's still a job to be done.
 
 
 
 
 Of course. We've had that belief and winning mentality all season and we are encouraged to play all the time and we are trying to create history.
 
 
 
 
 It's all about the basics with him. Little things like how you receive the ball and look to play. He pushes you to be better at the small things and that improves your performance.
 
 
 
 
 I do. I think that's a big thing for this team. We have got quality players but a lot of them are young guys too. Our captain Vinny Kompany has already said how important it will be for us to look to win it again next year and that will be the big test. City haven't done that before but every year we play together we'll get better and hopefully we can win more trophies in future. Plenty of teams win trophies but to defend them is a different challenge and if we can do that then we'll be moving in the right direction.
 
 
 
 It's part of it. There hasn't been a game this season I thought we were going to lose. I always had the belief that we were going to control the game. Last year maybe even when we were playing well the counter attack was always on for the opponents. But this year we've controlled that and been safer. We have confidence that we can defend as well.
 
 
 
 I hope so. It has been great for me to learn and improve under the manager. He is one of the best managers in the world and it's special to be part of his team.
 
 
 
 
 I'm trying! The most important thing for me is that I'm getting into positions. I'm making the breaks and getting into areas where I can get on the end of stuff. Then it's down to me to put it away. Slowly but surely I'm getting the numbers up and keep going, and building next year. I just need to keep improving and focus on how I can help the team.
 
 
 
 
 I set my own targets and I aim to achieve them every season but it's more important to get the club where it wants to be. It's been a good season for me but there are details I can change to make me sharper or more clinical and I always look to improve. It's the same for the team. We want to keep improving and keep winning titles together.
 
