CHENNAI: A mammoth money-laundering case, hitherto discussed in hushed voices, has now come out into the open, with the Madras high court handing it over to the CBI.

 ‘Arjunlal Sunderdas’ will ring a bell in the top echelons of industry, judiciary and politics, because scores of VVIPs had parked their money with the man with at least four ‘companies’. For several years he was able to pay an interest of 24% a year, till he defaulted in 2014. It took another three years for the economic offences wing to register a case, that too after the high court’s intervention and order.
 
 On April 21, 2014,   was declared insolvent on a plea from a Mumbai-based creditor, Chitra Desai. On March 3, 217, the Madras high court directed its official assignee to lodge a complaint with the TN police’s economic offences wing, and an FIR dated April 10, 2017 was registered against Arjunlal under IPC Sections 409 and 420.
 
 Given the enormity of the claims and the fact that money had fled the state and the country, Chief justice of the Madras high court Justice Indira Banerjee constituted a tough division bench of   and   which is now examining the genuineness of Arjunlal’s insolvent status.
 
 It referred the matter to the CBI, but asked the government to depute a DSP and two inspectors to assist the probe, under the court’s monitoring.
 
 Though the claim before the high court is about Rs 161 crore, the actual money lost could be more, as most ‘investors’ are unable to come out with a claim as they had either given Arjunlal cash or could not explain its source, said advocate   handling the case on behalf of some creditors. For the record, the amount of debts is Rs 94. 68 crore and claim by creditors is Rs 160.6 crore. Only those who have filed income tax returns for the claim amount and those showing it in their books of account can stake claim, the court said.
 
 The special bench, after perusing the status report of inspector S Sekar of Economic Offences wing-II, said: “Since the material placed before this court indicates strong suspicion of money laundering, monies being diverted to various accounts of the persons close to the insolvent, this court is of the opinion that EOW may not be in a position to complete the investigation with its restriction on jurisdiction.”
 
 The bench said the inspector “expressed limitations in conducting investigation since it involved inter-state transactions, and there has been largescale diversion of money from other states to   and vice versa.” There were claimants from other states, apart from New York, it said, adding, “EOW of Tamil Nadu police was handicapped in investigating in those states and in the US.”
 
 
