Chaos ensued when   singer   performed on the second day of  , the annual cultural festival of  . What was being regarded as the biggest crowd in a   fest so far this season, turned out to be possibly the worst due to poor management at the fest. The situation, which got out of control even before Parmish arrived, worsened further when the singer reached the college and started performing. It was after 40 minutes, when the crowd stopped listening to Parmish’s requests to calm down, that the singer was left with no choice but to walk out midway. 

  
  Bouncers had to help the students who were being pushed in the crowd
 
 
 
 Parmish’s performance was expected to start at 3pm, but the singer reached the college two hours late. The entry gate, which was closed for the students around 2pm, was reopened at around 2:15pm for everyone, due to chaos outside the college.
 
  
  Parmish Verma
 
 It was when Parmish’s car entered the college from its back gate at around 5pm that almost 200 students entered along with his car, and occupied the area around the front of the stage, which was kept vacant for photographers, students’ union members and volunteers. “Thank you for calling me here. Sab badhiya hai na? Please kisi ko dhakka mat do,” the singer requested the students before starting his performance. As he began singing his popular track Gaal Ni Kadni, the crowd broke the barricades from the left-hand-side of the stage and started running towards it. Minutes after this, other barricades were also broken, resulting in a stampede. “We were standing on the left when the barricades were broken. We could not understand what had just happened, we were pushed badly, but people were only thinking about making videos,” said Ravleen Kaur who had come from  .
 Pooja Kumar, a student of Kalindi College, added, “I could not even breathe when this entire incident happened. People were so insensitive that they were either pushing or making videos of the singer. The management was really bad, they could have handled this better.”
 
  
  Students surrounded Parmish while he tried to leave
 
 While all of this was happening, the singer repeatedly kept asking the crowd to not push each other. “Please don’t push each other, I am requesting you all. Ladkiyon ko please dhakka mat do, main baar-baar bol raha hoon,” he said. When people started coming on the stage to click selfies with Parmish, and stopped listening to him as well, the singer left his performance midway. Simran Kaur, a student from SGTB Khalsa College, pointed out, “I think his performance was really nice, par bahut dhakke pade hain! We were standing in front of the stage when the barricades were broken. Par yeh koi chhota celebrity bhi nahi hai, tabhi itne log aa gaye. I knew that there will be a crowd but did not expect so many people.”
 
 
 
 
 While the students’ union had a tough time managing the crowd, the police present on the spot told us, “The kind of barricading that they had done was not useful at all. At fests like these, there are usually two enclosures for boys and girls separately. Yahan woh bhi nahi tha. Also, they let in so many outsiders. Today, they had around 500-700 outsiders who did not belong to any college.”
 
  
  The police struggled to keep the crowd under control
 
 
 
 “When I am talking about the management, I don’t want to play the blame game, ki yeh uski galti thi, yeh uska fault tha. It was a mutual mistake, honestly I don’t want to name the people behind the fiasco, but barricading was a huge issue. When there are such events, everybody wants a selfie with the celebrity; it has become such huge a problem that people end up hurting others just for one selfie. People need to be more mature. Some people in the crowd also misbehaved with others. They take such situations as an advantage to do whatever they want to. We have no complaints from Parmish Verma. We were overwhelmed with the response that we got at our fest. I am glad that ours was the first college to invite him in DU,” said Tanya Goel, vice-president of the students’ union of the college. 
 
  
  Students surrounded Parmish while he tried to leave
 
 Usually in college fests, students from other DU colleges are allowed after showing their I-card. No outsider is allowed on the premises without a pass. So what led them to open the gates for the rest of the crowd? Tanya replied, “Our college is in the embassy area and the crowd had reached the road and had created a chaotic situation. Our management, the college staff and the police present at the entry gates tried to regulate the entry, but we had to open the doors for everyone because the crowd was getting out of control,” said Tanya. And what about having seperate enclosures for boys and girls? She said, “I don’t think most of the colleges have it. But this is the one thing that we would like to push from our side to other colleges as well. There should be separate divisions for boys and girls. It makes things easier, security-wise.”
 While Parmish’s manager refused to comment on the fiasco, Parmish addressed the issue on  , writing, “Every fan who gets pushed is a brother to me any girl who is standing alone in the crowd is a sister to me, I’m blessed to have you all, I request you all to be patient and humble during any performance. Please don’t follow our cars without helmets. It’s dangerous and unsafe.” 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
