The Stars Wars opened at the cinemas. Only 42, Elvis Presley died in August. It was 1977, not a watershed year by any means in the waterfall of history.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 East Bengal secured the league but the fans, young and old, aren’t happy. How can they digest that  , the one and only, will come to play Mohun Bagan at the Eden Gardens! It was unacceptable. No self-respecting “refugee” was allowed to transgress the ethno-cultural divide demarcated geographically by the Padma, the natural boundary between the east and the west.
 
 Now how can the uprooted, unwanted insulted section of the populace seek tickets, passes or whatever to catch a glimpse of Pele, the ultimate conversation-stopper in football. The frowns on the fathers’ foreheads weeks before September left the new readers of newspapers and magazines, on their toes with ears pricked like rabbits.
 
 A football fan is born.
 
 Pele turned out to be the last epic of the oral tradition, the Achilles of football’s Illiad.
 
 Born with the curse of being poor and dark-skinned left him disadvantaged from the first whistle. Undaunted still, he went on to bulldoze the odds and defenders and social stigma and barriers of the nation states with skill, guile, determination, panache and an overwhelming smile.
 
 Television used to be a luxury, something similar to an uber-rich relation who you get to see, maybe once a year, if you are lucky or did well in the last exams.
 
 Radio, the commoner’s luxury and still a rarity in the hinterland, broke the news of Pele’s visit in this part of the planet and endeared a new breed of listeners.
 
 In the football-playing globe that includes mainly South America, Europe and the US, Pele had become a household name since 1958. Poor black boy — yes, yet to be 18, he won the World Cup — had the world literally at his feet, created a Hans Christian Anderson-like fairy tale with the segregation laws still entrenched on paper in the US and in the minds of the powerful across the world. The Civil Rights movement was picking up in the US, where Pele would go on to spend his initial superannuation years after hanging up his yellowcoloured No.10. He was yet to touch 30.
 
 One cannot but draw parallels with cricket’s Donald Bradman just for the sheer weight of numbers, let alone achievements. A pre-war sporting hero meets a black genius on the sporting fields of imagination as the world tried to recalibrate and come to terms with a changing social superstructure.
 
 Post-war, as the world was shrugging off the shackles of colonialism and riding the socialist dream, Pele emerged as the ultimate human embodiment of excellence following a concatenation of freakish circumstances. Uncle Tom now owns a ranch and the world watches in awe.
 
 Every age needs a symbol of hope and Pele offered it. As stories of his exploits travelled across continents, they picked up colour as clouds gather volume following the summer heat.
 
 An octogenarian offers his first memory of Pele. “If my memory serves me right, there was a news report about Pele’s scandalous involvement with a woman. Maybe it was in the Sixties.”
 
 For the Seventies-born, the first memory seems to be his visit to the Eden Gardens in 1977. An idea that is android-defiant, pre- post-truth and good enough to be worded as an incantation or a chapter in Noah Harari’s next book. Magazines published photos of Pele’s dribbling techniques and newspapers reported his daily routine and recalled his exploits in Santos and at the Azteca.
 
 Conflicts actually stopped when Pele visited strife-torn Nigeria with Santos. It was 1969 when Pele started to blur the rift between fact and folklore.
 
 As television took over the privacy of home and hearth and made way for further invasion of mind by the internet, the legend of Pele lives on. Adapting to the changes smoothly, Pele has forever been faithful to the image that has been mostly natural and partially manufactured.
 
 Pele running with the ball, Pele crying after winning his first World Cup or pushing his fist high up after winning his third are now part of the subconscious.
 
 The world became black and white, upturning a swathe of historical and mythological premise of good and bad, just like the images of a clenched fist snubbing at the sky.
 
 Come 1986 and Giants of   hit the screen. It became the Battleship Potemkin of football, the red book of politics.
 
 Another celluloid experiment with a host of World Cup stars happened in 1981 with Pele playing a key role in Escape to Victory, portrayed against the backdrop of Nazi-dominated Europe. The theatres filed across the world up as the children and their parents loved O Rei’s bicycle volley in the face of adversity.
 
 Forty years later, a Pele biopic made its celluloid entry. Like a soft-changed world, the movie touched the heart but lacked soul. It has been Pele’s permanent address.
 
 Can Pele hear the time’s winged chariot hurrying close? Perhaps yes. He is not keeping well and hospital visits are frighteningly frequent.
 
 But the memory of a little black boy who became king, is destined to defy oblivion for some more decades.
 
 
