NEW DELHI: From  's infamous "maut ka saudagar" and "zehar ki kheti" to  's recent "jawano ke khoon ka dalal",   on Monday released a long list of abuses hurled by   leaders at Prime Minister   as the party reacted strongly to the rival asking the President to advise the PM against using "unwarranted, threatening and intimidating" language against political opponents.

 
 "Congress leaders led by  , who have complained misleadingly about Narendra Modi's language should check their own record of repeated denigration of a popular leader like Modi with the most abusive language," law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said.
 
 Prasad added that Sonia had called Modi "maut ka saudagar" while another Congress leader had dubbed him "lowly" and advised him to open a tea shop. He also referred to the coinage of 'Gabbar Singh Tax' by Rahul for the goods and services tax. "Congress has been targeting Modi because of its reluctance to accept that a man born in poverty has become prime minister, a post which only one family can lay claim to," Prasad said.
 
 Addressing a press conference, BJP spokespersons Sudhanshu Trivedi and Shahnawaz Hussain attacked Congress over the letter to President Ram Nath Kovind.
 
 Hussain said Congress had started looking for an excuse for its certain defeat in the Karnataka polls. Trivedi added that Congress had defined "the lowest level of personal attacks". In the Gujarat assembly campaign in 2007, Sonia had called Modi "maut ka saudagar" (merchant of death). During a 'kisan yatra' on October 6, 2016, Rahul had termed Modi "jawano ke khoon ka dalal" (broker of soldiers' lives).
 
 The saffron party also referred to Karnataka minister Roshan Beigh using "foul" language against the PM to protest against demonetisation. Karnataka Congress chief Dinesh Gundurao's remarks against Modi and Shah were also in the list.
 
 As were Aiyar's "neech" (lowly) remark, Anand Sharma saying Modi had an unhealthy mentality and the official Twitter handle of Youth Congress mocking the PM's tea-selling background.
 
 BJP also cited the statements of Congress leaders Manish Tewari, Pramod Tiwari and Digvijay Singh. Pramod Tiwari had equated Modi with Hitler, Mussolini and Gaddafi. It also mentioned Rashid Alvi calling Modi the "most stupid PM" and Saharanpur MLA Imran Masood's threat to chop Modi into pieces.
 
 
