BENGALURU: After a year’s delay and months before assembly elections, chief minister Siddaramaiah on Wednesday distributed free laptops to second-year SC/ST college students with his photo pasted on the gadgets. 

 The scheme is along the lines of a similar one launched by former   chief minister   in 2011, in which the AIADMK leader distributed free laptops to higher-secondary and college students studying in government and aided institutions with her photo on the gadgets. In 2013, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister   had gone a step further, when he gave away laptops with screen savers of him and his father Mulayam Singh Yadav.
 
 The   government had, in 2016-17, rolled out the free laptop scheme, under which as many as 31,742 laptops were to be given away to scheduled castes and scheduled tribes students from 412 government and government-aided degree colleges and 85 polytechnics. However, the scheme got delayed by over a year as the tendering process fell behind schedule. As a result, the beneficiary students, who received the laptops on Wednesday, are already in their second year of college now.
 
 The Acer-make gadgets have cost the state exchequer Rs 14,490 a piece, with a configuration of   Quad-Core processor, 1TB hard drive, 4 GB ram and a 14-inch screen. The laptops are preloaded with licensed   10 home version and carry an on-site warranty of one year . The total cost is placed at Rs 45 crore.
 
 According to the higher education department, the laptops were originally supposed to have the CM’s photo embossed on them. But that option was ruled out as overheating of the machine could affect the picture. As a result, the department decided to use peelable stickers with Siddaramaiah’s photo on them. The sticker with the CM’s picture and the Karnataka government logo comes with the tag line — Free Laptop Scheme-2017 — in Kannada. The laptop bags too have the same sticker and wordings. 
 
 The government has clarified that the scheme is no longer the same as the one announced previously. The new scheme, which was announced in 2017-18, will include students from across castes and communities, with income criteria of less than Rs 2.5 lakh per annum. It is estimated that close to 1.8 lakh students will be covered under this new scheme. According to department officials, tenders for the new scheme have been floated, and the gadgets are expected to be delivered later this year. However, the laptop configurations will remain more or less the same.
 
 
