CHANDIGARH: Residents of a few sectors are battling water scarcity for more than a week. The situation has become particularly tough in sectors 15, 18, 47, 48, 50, and 61, where residents are bearing the brunt of low water pressure.

 Anil Kumar Nayyar, president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 61, said it has been more than 15 days that they have been facing shortage of water in their area. He complained that they only get water supply for six hours per day and that too at such a low-pressure that people are not able to fill their tanks.
 
  “At times, because of the shortage of supply, the levels in the storage tankers become so less that the taps start spewing dirt settled at the bottom along with the water,” he said.
 
 The shortage in the supply and particularly, low-pressure, has left residents relying on motors, to be able to store water in the tanks.
 
 Surinder Sharma, President, Welfare Society, Sector 15 expressed that is almost impossible to get the water even to the first floor, let alone the privilege to be able to fill tanks. The fresh water pressure levels are so low that the people living on the first floor and above have to come down fill and store the water for routine activities.
 
 Kanwaljit Panchhi, general secretary, Social Welfare Society, Sector 18, believes that the situation is actually worse for those without an underground or a ground level storage tank. The water does not reach upper floors and people are left to deal with the situation on their own as the authorities are yet to take appropriate measures to resolve the issue.
 
 The time duration of the daily water supply is rather short, forcing residents to wake up earlier than usual. Jyoti Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 47, said the laborious process has become a routine for most residents in the sector. He said as the water supply for the people living on the first floor and above gets over almost by 8am, it leaves people in a rush to fill their buckets to store water for the rest of the day and complete other household chores that can be done as long as the water supply is available like washing cars or watering lawns and plants.
 
 Balwinder Cheema, president, Residents Welfare Association, Sector 48, said there is no water supply on second floor of the societies, especially in the evening hours.
 
 Davesh Moudgil, mayor, municipal corporation, said all complaints related to the water supply will be dealt on a priority basis. He also added that for issues with major crisis, water will be provided through water tanks. 
 
 On the matter of providing proper supply to residents, he said he has already discussed the problem in a meeting with the relevant authorities and they have been asked to make the supply normal in next two days.
 
 
