Crusader, actor, fighter, caregiver

 How Jeeja Ghosh faced her hurdles to become the most visible face of disability rights activism
 
 A cool summer breeze wafts in through the window of her ninth-floor Ballygunge flat. It is this house that has been witness to disability rights activist Jeeja Ghosh’s sniffles, sobs and smiles. Clad in green salwar-kameez, Jeeja sits to have her evening snack at the dining table after a long day at work. At the far end of the room is Jayasree, her wheelchair-bound mother.
 
 In 2012, Jeeja, who has cerebral palsy, was in the public eye when an airline deplaned her owing to her condition. Jeeja had fought back to become the main protagonist of the landmark Supreme Court judgment for equal rights of persons with disabilities. She’s the author of a book of poems, the protagonist of a National Award-winning documentary (‘I Am Jeeja’), and an integral member of the theatre group Katha Kalam… and these are just a few of her recent accomplishments.
 
 Struggle is no stranger to Jeeja, perhaps the most visible disability awareness and rights crusader in the country. She went to school at the Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy and La Martiniere for Girls. She went on to graduate with honours in sociology from Presidency College. She is also a qualified social worker (MSW) from the Delhi School of Social Work, Delhi University. And, in 2006, she completed her second masters — in disability studies — from Leeds University, UK.
 
 Jeeja is now looking forward to a film where she is playing herself. Calling it a "courageous" film, she goes on to talk about this project titled ‘One Little Finger: Ability in Disability’, directed by Rupam Sarmah. "All the characters with disabilities are portrayed by themselves. That’s a very brave thing to do. A lot about the film is taken from the life of radio jockey Den Mukherjee. A story is woven around his life. We started shooting in March 2015 in Jorhat. The Kolkata portions were shot in December 2015," Jeeja says.
 
 The shooting experience was unique since, apart from the director, no one in the crew knew much about disability. "But, during the course of shooting, everyone worked as part of one team. Now, post-production work is going on. We should be able to release it by the end of this year," she hopes.
 
 Writing is her passion and so is acting. "I have done a play based on the Nirbhaya incident, titled ‘Black Holes are Not Black’. We had our last show in March. Henceforth, we will not spend our own money to stage it but rather do only call shows," she says.
 
 Though awareness has increased, Jeeja insists very few can really understand and accept the fact that someone with disabilities can have romantic desires, want to get married or have children. "I have the support of my husband Bappaditya (Nag)," she says, her eyes twinkling with joy. "But very few others are this lucky."
 
 However, her biggest responsibility now is to take care of her mother, who has been suffering from dementia for some three years now. Recognition doesn’t come easy to Jayasree any longer. The television set beams a serial. Jayasree sits in front, though one isn’t sure how much her mind is registering it. She speaks intermittently, but it is only Jeeja’s name. "Initially, I was very upset when she had dementia. Now, I have come to terms with it," Jeeja says. She admits that most parents who are care-givers for children with disabilities are worried about what will happen to them once they are gone. But life is always capable of throwing a surprise, as it did in Jeeja’s case. All these years, Jayasree had taken care of her. The octogenarian is now Jeeja’s responsibility. With her husband by her side, Jeeja has now become her mother’s care-giver. "My mother has done so much for me. Looking after her now is part of my job," she says with a smile.
 
 ‘I empathised with all kids with special needs’
 
 Single mother Esha Kar talks about dealing with and caring for her son
 
 My son, Atananta, was two-and-a-half months old when he had an eye problem. Ultimately, we found he had a rare disease called Rot Cone Dystrophy, and that he ran the risk of losing his vision. Unfortunately, giving attention to him became a source of conflict within the family.
 
 Atananta used to go to a special school. Despite my reservations, he spent close to a year in a hostel. His situation deteriorated there and I couldn’t accept it. Not just for my son, I empathised with all other children with special needs who, I felt, didn’t get the care they deserve. Soon, I had started dreaming of doing something for special children.
 
 After 20 years of matrimony, I walked out of my marriage with my two sons, 13-year-old Atananta and 17-year-old Nabarun. I am still fighting for my divorce. I wasn’t even working when I walked out of my marriage. I started working in theatre. Apart from acting on stage, I also formed a group with special children and named it Katha Kalam. Our first production was in 2015. It was called ‘Dakghar: A Journey’. My next production was based on the Nirbhaya incident, where Jeeja Ghosh plays Nirbhaya’s alter-ego. It is called ‘Black Holes are Not Black’. My next, which has Jeeja playing the central character, is titled ‘Brishti Bheja Ek Jiboner Gaan’. I am also working on another play titled ‘Cinderella — Ek Dukhhi Meyer Golpo’.
 
 Bringing up two sons as a single woman is tough in Kolkata. More so, with Atananta’s condition. Initially, I had trouble getting a house on rent. Thanks to the moral support of my elder son and my extended family of special children and their parents, I have emerged a stronger human being who can take on all odds with a smile.
 
 ‘There are still many areas of concern’
 
 How elderly Dipti Bhattacharya finds the strength to care for her daughter
 
 When my daughter Reema was one, she was diagnosed with cerebral palsy. She couldn’t speak or walk. Though she has improved, Reema, now 35, is still wheelchair-bound. When she was seven, we admitted her to the Indian Institute of Cerebral Palsy.
 
 In all these years, we have faced many hardships. Acceptance levels were very low earlier. People would make it seem that they were concerned about my difficulties and hence, were suggesting we don’t bring her along at social gatherings. However, we could read between the lines.
 
 It’s a myth that intelligence levels of those with cerebral palsy is low. My daughter could feel it when people dropped hints suggesting otherwise. I have seen her maintaining a distance if she didn’t get a good vibe from some people.
 
 Over the years, acceptance levels have increased. But there are many areas that still remain a concern. We have to engage ayahs for 24 hours to attend to her. Depending on them is a challenge. I am 72 now and it isn’t easy for me to carry her. The sensitivity that is required to handle patients like her isn’t easy to find among ayahs. Their attendance is a worry. Often, they don’t take care of her needs the way they should. Hence, I need to monitor their job. Her younger sister, Piano, is very protective about her. In fact, she is like her second mother. Even her friends are very sensitive to Reema’s needs. They come over at home, spend time with her and attend her birthday parties too.
 
 In 1995, three mothers of children with cerebral palsy, including me, decided to start a group called Jayshree Park Udbhas Spastic Welfare Society. It was a support group for all parents who have special children. Today, we have 25 mothers in our group. Four days a week, we meet and spend time together. This gathering happens in the evening, where parents extend support to each other. With song and dance, we celebrate life.
 
 ‘We reached out to each other’
 
 Minu Budhia trained herself to help not only her daughter, but countless other kids with special needs
 
 Parents usually drive their children to realize unfulfilled dreams. But for Minu Budhia, it was a role reversal. The childhood dream of becoming a doctor was realized when Prachi, her very special younger daughter — who was diagnosed with ADHD, low IQ and bipolar disorder — encouraged her to take up courses in mental therapy.
 
 "It was in the late 1990s, when my daughter was going to pre-school, that I began receiving a lot of complaints," Minu says.
 
 "Since she never sat still, the teacher labelled her ‘naughty’. A mother’s instinct told me something was wrong. But there were no proper facilities available in Kolkata then. Awareness on such issues was very little. So, I travelled abroad and got her diagnosed. After a bout of depression that followed when I struggled to accept that she was a special child, things began to fall into place. I travelled again; this time not in search of a cure but to train myself to manage her. I underwent formal training in child brain development in Philadelphia, US, followed by a cognitive behaviour therapy course from London," Minu recounts.
 
 After qualifying as a psychotherapist, she became a student counsellor at JD Birla and St
 
 Xavier’s and also practised at Belle Vue.
 
 "It was around then that I realized there was no such holistic centre which could address all issues related to the mind. I wanted to apply the expertise I gained while training my daughter. This passion and dream gave birth to Caring Minds, a psychological and cognitive wellness centre that is now my third child."
 
 Learning from her personal experience, the first thing she advocates in child-related disorders is counselling parents. "Until I accepted my daughter as she was, I was in a constant battle with myself. I was unhappy, and so was she. As soon as acceptance came, we reached out to each other. In fact, now the entire family dotes on her. 
 
 Prachi is my darling. While my elder daughter Preeyam is my weakness, Prachi is my strength and inspiration. She helped me rediscover myself and appreciate life like never before," Minu adds.
 
 ‘What would happen to him after we’re gone?’
 
 the fear that prompted Arnab Sengupta and Banya Chakraborty
 
 to set up a special housing project
 
 What after us? That’s the major concern for doctor couple Arnab Sengupta and Banya Chakraborty, whose 23-year-old son, Abhro, is autistic. Even as the duo is taking care of him with the support of a joint family, they are worried about his future when they are no more. It is this haunting thought that led the couple to form a group with like-minded parents of special children and set up a housing project.
 
 "A group of parents, who are concerned about their children’s care, joined us to give shape to this unique housing. The infrastructure is ready and we are working on the operational nitty-gritty," says Arnab, a professor of physiology at Calcutta Medical College.
 
 The Baruipur-based facility, which will have trained care-givers, will accommodate 40 persons with special needs.
 
 Banya, a microbiologist at the School of Tropical Medicine, trained herself in special education when she found her son was autistic. Now, when the couple is out on their respective jobs, they send him to a centre for special education.
 
 "All these special education units are either private or run by NGOs and trusts. The government should recognize the need for these children and try to come up with units with quality special educators where they can get inclusive and integrated education," she adds.
 
 ‘It was an incredible gift’
 
 A brother’s selfless wish that
 
 parents Gargi & Zishan fulfilled
 
 Gargi Bhattacharya’s elder son Zain Ali was almost a parent to his brother Rean, four years his junior, when he lost his battle to glioblastoma multiforme in 2014. Zain was only 15 then. Rean had been detected with autism when he was only 20 months old.
 
 Prior to his death in August 2014, Zain, despite extreme difficulties in speech, had expressed a desire to build a home for his brother and friends like him. "Zain left an incredible gift to give, selflessly," Gargi recounts.
 
 Soon thereafter, Gargi and her husband Zishan launched the Zain Foundation Trust, which aspires to be a holistic residential place for those within the autism spectrum.
 
 "It will be the very first of its kind in eastern India, and the challenge will always be to get the most dedicated and informed caretakers, to be maintained in the ratio of 1:2," says Gargi, adding that the caregivers will not only be employed on the basis of their experience and training, but also based on energy levels.
 
 Caregiving, she recognises, will be an extremely challenging task as autism is the most compelling of all neurological disorders. "It is a spectrum disorder because of the confusion of diagnosis. No two autistic individuals are the same, though the challenges of communication, socialization and imagination are what each struggle with. How would it be if you and I were to receive cues from the environment, which appealed to our senses, while we remained incapacitated in expressing the appropriate response in a socially desirable way? It would mean battling to live, each second of our lives," she explains.
 
 The Zain Foundation has built up enormous goodwill across the world from friends, associates, academicians, entertainers, researchers and a huge parent support group.
 
 
