As part of a two-day theatre festival, celebrated playwright   staged his play, Snapshots of a Fervid Sunrise, which dealt with untold stories of patriotism. The audience was swept up with patriotic fervour as the play told the story of two teenage freedom fighters — Khudiram Bose and Thillaiyadi Valliammai — who were both driven by an all consuming love for their motherland.
After the play, Hyderabad Times caught up with Mahesh Dattani for a tête-à-tête. Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 I know of a few theatre groups here. There’s Mohammad’s (Ali Baig) group, then there’s Mala Pasha’s group. But the highlight of Hyderabad is  , which is world famous. It is a good thing that it has a permanent space now. I really enjoyed their performance during   Theatre Festival in October last year. 
 
 
 
 I think it’s evolving. I appreciate the fact that the present generation doesn’t howl upon the way we used to crib about correct English. There’s an Indian English idiom that’s developing, and it’s really good. And I think there’s a huge interest in urban areas, especially Bombay and Calcutta, and to some extent in Hyderabad and Chennai. So it’s like an urban Indian language to communicate with people from different backgrounds. In that sense, it is here to stay. 
 
 
 
 I think it’s going to get more relevant now because the way technology has changed our lifestyle, we are getting more and more disintegrated and isolated. Whereas, the one thing that theatre offers which film, television or digital media cannot, is the human contact. Thus, there will be a demand for theatre as we become less connected with human beings.
 
 Theatre for me is all about evoking responses, about putting the spotlight on areas which are hidden in society at large — the invisible issues. For me, it’s very important that theatre provokes and puts the spotlight on those areas. A few of my plays are based on real incidents. 30 Days in September is based on interviews of people in a Delhi-based NGO supporting victims of incest and child sexual abuse. 
 
 There’s a huge difference! I think plays are not just meant to be performed and seen, but heard as in the case of radio plays. Because the actors bring in so much, they sort of transport the audience into the world of the play — which is very important for a play to come alive. Reading is good; plays are being studied in universities. But I always encourage teachers to have small performances in the classroom because only then will they have a better understanding of its structure and how it comes alive in flesh and blood. 
 
 
 Unlike in theatre, I don’t have a captive audience. A radio play, by far, I think is the most challenging medium because there’s nothing that’s preventing the listeners from tuning off. Their attention is divided. So the whole structure of radio drama has to be different. Understanding the language of radio was a huge challenge. Most people perceive radio drama only as talking, but it’s not. You have to create a soundscape; the acoustics of the space where the characters are, makes a huge difference in radio drama.
 
 
 Film has its own constraints. What’s more liberating is the fact that the camera is far more fluid than the audience’ eyes. When you are making a film for the camera, the audience sees what the camera sees. You don’t have that fluidity on stage because there, audience’ views and perspective is fixed. The advantage of theatre is the live experience. It’s ninety-nine per cent creative energy and one per cent of technology. However it’s a technology driven medium too. If any department is technologically imperfect, it shows. 
