NEW DELHI: She was the “Michael Jackson” of her colony. A pro at doing moonwalk and the most difficult of splits with ease,   was a role model for teenagers of her locality. The residents of   were shocked to hear of her arrest on Wednesday night.

 “Police ne bola ki mobile loota karti thee (the cops said that she robbed people of their phones),” said one of the neighbours who had gathered near the house on Thursday.
 
 Sonia lived with her two “wives”, elderly parents and her brother and his family in a two-storey house in C-Block of Ambika Vihar. Her mother said that she was never interested in studies and wanted to do something different since childhood.
 
 “She was a good dancer and used to train children since her teenaged days to make money. We always though she would do well in her career,” said her mother, showing videos of her performances.
 
 The family said they always backed Sonia in whatever she did. Be it multiple ear piercings, bob hairstyle or relationships with women, the family accepted their rebellious daughter. 
 
 “Many a times neighbours used to complain to us, but we never though she would do anything wrong,” her mother added.
 
 “We still believe that Sonia is innocent and could not have committed robberies. She was very short tempered. We suspect that on Wednesday someone must have said something that angered her and she snatched the phone,” her mother further said.
 
 Recalling their first meeting, one of the women with whom Sonia is in a relationship said, “We met through a common friend. We knew that our parents would never approve of our relationship, but as I could not live without Sonia I left my family and started living with her after getting married,” she told TOI.
 
 According to Sonia’s brother, she had been without work of late as people had stopped sending their children to her due to her eccentric behaviour.
 
 “Initially, she had a huge fan following in our locality and children from the nearby colonies used to invite her to perform at functions. But slowly people started withdrawing their children from the classes she organised in Bhajanpura. She gave up teaching after being left with no students. However, that didn’t stop her from performing at functions as it was the only way left to make money,” he said.
 
 Neighbours said that they had asked their children to stay away from her. “She had been seen smoking in public and roamed around with male friends on bikes at odd hours. She was a bad influence on our children,” said a woman neighbour.
 
 Sonia’s “wife” said that she doesn’t know the whereabouts of her parents. “After I moved in with Sonia, I have had no contact with my parents. Even they didn’t bother to stay in touch with me. Now that she has been arrested, I don’t know what the future holds for the three of us,” she said.
 
 
