HASSAN: On January 29, the   of all 5,400   students studying in various high schools fall under the ambit of the   Block Education Office (BEO) will gather for a cause. In a first of its kind experiment in the state, Hassan block education officer (BEO)   and his team have convened a meeting of the mothers of SSLC students to discuss how to ensure that all the students clear the examination with good marks.

 The meeting will be conducted at SRS Prajna Educational Institutions on Shankar Mutt Road. Officials and experts will tell the mothers on what they need to do in the next 50 days until the start and during the examination.
 
 The Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) will conduct the SSLC examination from March 23 to April 6. Last year Hassan had recorded a 74.83   and this year’s target is increasing it to 85%. The meeting with the mothers is one of the initiatives to achieve this.
 
 Balaram told TOI, “Under this initiative, we have invited the mothers of all SSLC students studying in government, government aided, private and   Residential schools to the meeting.”
 
 "Generally it is the mothers who show utmost care about their children's educational progress. So we have decided to involve them in our efforts to improve the pass percentage. We had planned three preparatory examinations for SSLC students and one is already over. We will discuss the marks scored by each student in this examination with their mother, where improvement is required and it can be achieved," he said.
 
 "We want the mothers to keep an eye on the preparation of their child for the upcoming examination. We want to convince them to not send their child to any other work and allow them to concentrate on studies. In villages even today, students are forced to study when their parents watch TV soap operas. As many of them lack separate study rooms, students face a lot of problems. We have made special classes mandatory in the morning and evening hours besides on Sundays. Many parents do not allow their child to leave early or attend classes on Sundays. We will discuss all these issues with the mothers. We are confident of convincing them," he said.
 
 "Now just 50 days are left for the SSLC examination. So we want the mothers to give more importance to preparing for the examination," he added.
 
 
