Chennai: Tamil Nadu is all set to import sand with the government finalising on a contractor to ferry river sand from overseas next week. The contractor will supply five lakh tonnes of imported river sand every month, which would be marketed by the Public Works Department (PWD).

 Official sources at PWD said the proposal of the bidders are under evaluation. “The contractor would be finalised next week,” a PWD official told TOI. Three contractors based at Chennai, Delhi and Hyderabad have submitted bids to provide imported sand for TN. 
 
 Industry sources said the sand is likely to be procured from Malaysia. “While   has banned export of sand, the quality of sand in the  , which is volcanic in nature, does not meet the standards of the construction industry,” a sand importer said. At least 10 vessels from   have delivered river sand in various ports across south India including   in Andhra Pradesh, Mangaluru, Kochi and Goa in the past nine months.
 
 The PWD had invited tenders in March to supply imported sand with a condition that the consignment must be delivered only to Kamarajar Port at Ennore, Adani Kattupalli Port at Kattupalli and V O Chidambaranar Port in Tuticorin. While the value of the work for the initial six months of the contract is Rs 548.75 crore, the selected contractor should provide five lakh tonnes from overseas every month.
 
 Government sources said steps are being taken to sell the sand at the stockyard in the respective ports. “We are planning to follow the existing online procedure of distributing sand to sand traders. Trucks can take sand from the ports,” said the PWD official, adding, the public can also apply online. Asked whether the government was contemplating to market sand on the lines of neighbouring Karnataka, official sources said there was no such plan. As per guidelines of the government, issued in the wake of private companies importing sand to TN last December, PWD is the only authorised agency in the state to procure and market sand from abroad.
 
 
