Vijayawada: The Krishna district transport department is going all out to promote the new Motor Vehicle Act even before it is enacted by the Parliament.

 The transport department is particularly focussing on the hefty fines clause that was proposed in the new amendment bill that was passed by Lok Sabha. However, changes could be on the cards as the bill is yet to be passed by the upper house. Many amendments have been proposed in the revised Motor Vehicle Act – 2017. They are aimed at making penalties heftier.
 
 According to the new bill, driving a vehicle without licence will cost a minimum of Rs 5,000 and the upper limit of the penalty is set at Rs 15,000 and that could also extend to a jail term. The Krishna district transport department is using this particular clause to spread awareness on driving licences.
 
 Huge publicity drives are being taken up to motivate the people to apply for licences. Deputy transport commissioner (DTC) of Krishna district E Meera Prasad said the new Motor Vehicle Act is being introduced to reduce accidents by 50 per cent by 2020.
 
 “Though the bill has not come into force yet, it is just a matter of time before Rajya Sabha gives its approval. We are spreading the word about the new rules and increased fines to promote driving rules” he said.
 
 Not only for driving licence, the penalties will be increased manifold for most offences in the new Motor Vehicle Act. The bill proposes to increase penalties by 10 per cent annually. The parents and guardians will be held responsible in case juveniles are caught driving. While the parents will be booked under  , juveniles will be tried according to Juvenile Justice Act.
 
 The new Motor Vehicle Act (amendment) Bill 2017 also proposes hefty fines on automobile companies if manufacturing defects are found. A fine of upto Rs 500 crore can be imposed on defective vehicles. It was also proposed that the concerned officials will be held responsible for defective road engineering that causes accidents. Online registration of vehicles and Aadhaar will be made mandatory.
 
 
