CHANDIGARH: For the residents of various sectors in the city,   in their localities have become a matter of concern. The unhygienic conditions created by dressing of fish emanates foul smell making it unbearable for the locals. Hence, the residents there are strongly demanding the shift of these shops to the air condition market, which the Chandigarh administration has set up in Sector 41 to rehabilitate the roadside shopkeepers.

 In a recent meeting of the residents welfare associations (RWA), the representatives of the sectors 42, 43, 47 and Manimajra, it was said that the shopkeepers of the   set up their stalls in their area in the evening. After the shopkeepers wind-up their shops, nobody bothers to clean the flesh, due to which the areas get enveloped with a foul smell.
 
 The representatives demanded that these small fish outlets should shift to the air condition market of Sector 41. The president of Sector 43 RWA   said the demand of their association is that the illegal fish market should be shifted to Sector 21 meat market or some other place.
 
 President of RWA Sector 42 Jaskaran   said the market in Sector 42 was set up almost 25 years ago with two fish shops which extended to 10 to 12 shops at present. “The land on which the shopkeepers are running their shops belongs to the Chandigarh administration. In the evening, the public visit the shops for having fish. However, they also consume liquor at the roadside which should be checked by police,” he said.
 
 The representatives of the fish market associations said they are ready to shift to the air-conditioned markets if the authorities decrease the rates of the shop units as the shopkeepers cannot afford the rates, fixed by the authorities now.
 
 During a visit to Shastri Market, it was found that the vendors were dressing the fish in the open without having any proper arrangement of water and sewerage for cleaning and disposing of the waste. The haphazard and unorganised market was littered with the dirt and garbage, infested with flies and insects.
 
