PATNA: All speculations about the new DGP were belied with the Bihar government on Tuesday appointing   as the state’s 50th police chief.

 A notification to this effect was issued by the state home department on Tuesday morning. 
 
 A 1984-batch IPS officer, Dwivedi will on March 1 succeed P K Thakur who is retiring on February 28 after an almost four-year tenure, the second longest since independence. Earlier,   served as the state’s DGP for four years and four months, including two extensions of six months each. Dwivedi, currently posted as DG (training), will retire on January 31 next year.
 
 A native of Bundelkhand in UP, Dwivedi is a BSc in Biology from   where he also studied law and did MA in Philosophy.
 
 Talking to TOI over the phone, Dwivedi said his priority would be to make Bihar Police a smart organisation.
 
 “Our emphasis will be on scientific investigation of cases for generating stronger evidence against the accused. Steps will be taken for developing infrastructure and for the welfare of police personnel,” he said.
 
 Police will be made more citizen centric. “It will be ensured that the rule of law prevails without any bias towards anyone,” the incumbent DGP said and added no stone would be left unturned to prevent bootlegging and child marriage.
 
 Dwivedi has also served in Maoist-hit areas of Chhattisgarh and   during his five-year stint with the CRPF from 2004 to 2009. He also served in Tripura and Mizoram during the period.
 
 After returning from central deputation, Dwivedi served as the state’s IG (operations) for two years. He was the SP of Bhagalpur when the killer riots broke out in the Silk City in 1989. 
 
 Meanwhile, outgoing DGP Thakur inspected the farewell parade held in his honour at BMP-5 on Tuesday evening. In his speech, he rued the decline in people’s tolerance level and the growing trend in them to expect instant justice from police.
 
 Thakur also gave away the trophies and certificates to 17 children from different schools, who won a painting competition held on February 25 as part of police week celebrations.
 
 
