
 BHANGAR: Several hundred residents of Machibhanga, Natunhat, Polerhat, Haroa Road and Dibdiba Bazar on Friday protested against the arrest of CPI-ML ( ) leader   Chakrabarty, the face of the anti-power grid movement in Bhangar.
 
 
 A police team from Baruipur and Bhubaneswar on Thursday arrested him from a hospital in Bhubaneswar. The news of the arrest sparked fresh protests, roadblocks and processions in the region which has been on the boil since January 2017.
 
 Members and supporters of the Jomi, Jibika, Bastutantra O Paribesh Raksha Committee put up roadblocks at 10 places. Buses, auto-rickshaws and totos did not ply since Thursday night and shops remained shut throughout Friday.
 
 “We want the government to release Alik Chakrabarty at the earliest. He has done nothing unlawful. If the government thinks it can suppress our movement by arresting him, they are wrong,” said Sukur Ali, father of Mufizul Ali, who had died of bullet injuries last year when protesters clashed with police.
 
 Despite the ongoing Ramzan month, more than 500 people participated in a protest march from Natunhat till Dibdiba Bazar on Friday evening.
 
 “The state government will have to release our leader because he has been falsely implicated. His arrest will not put a brake on our movement,” said  , a senior member of the committee.
 
 Hakimul Islam, son of imprisoned Trinamool leader Arabul Islam, said, “Power Grid project will happen there. With a leader’s arrest, some people got an excuse to create anarchy.”
 
 The meeting was also attended by senior Left Front and CPI(ML) leaders. Citu leader and former Rajya Sabha MP   led the protest march accompanied by Left Front MLA Tanmay   and others.
 
 “Alik’s arrest has given birth to a thousand Aliks in Bhangar. We stand firmly by the protesters,” said Chakrabarty.
 
 Villagers feel that the ruling party is miffed because their representatives won the rural polls from the area last month. “They are thinking we will go into a shock after the arrest and they will send their people to suppress our movement. But our movement will continue,” said Zahoor Badshah, a resident of Machibhanga.
 
 (With inputs from Monotosh Chakraborty in Kolkata)
 
