HYDERABAD: Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has pointed fingers at the TRS government for sanctioning crores of rupees of ‘Special Development Fund’ to constituencies of two MLAs, who defected to TRS from TDP. Under Special Development Fund, money is sanctioned for welfare and development activities for specific departments or specific works in a constituency or a district based on assurances of the chief minister during his visits.

 While FGG alleged the GO issued in one of the two cases mentioned that works should be taken in ‘consultation with the MLA, the   refuted it by stating funds are given to the department and not to MLAs who don’t play any role in this. “Funds are sanctioned based on CM’s assurances or sometimes representations submitted to him,” said a planning department official.
  
  
 
  M Padmanabha Reddy told TOI that as per information obtained by invoking RTI, “TDP MLAs Erraballi Dayakar Rao from Palakurthy and S Rajender Reddy from Narayanpet assembly constituencies were provided with big funds in name of Special Development Fund after they joined the ruling party. Both Rajender Reddy and Dayakar Rao joined TRS in February 2016.”
 
 
 
 Padmanabha Reddy added, “Based on Rajender Reddy’s representation in November, Rs 23 crore was sanctioned for upgrade of 13 road works in his constituency. Similarly, planning department issued orders in September 2016, sanctioning ? 20 crore under special development fundsfor works at Palakurthy constituency based on representation made by Dayakar Rao. In the GO, it was said the collector has to prioritise works in consultation with the MLA for 2016-17. In Reddy’s case, list of work was appended as requested, and the collector was authorised to carry out projects. There was no mention of consultation withthelegislator.”
 
 But planning department officials refuted the allegations. Speaking toTOI, a planning department official said, “Constituency Development Fund is different from Special Development Fund. Under CDF, all assembly constituencies across the state are given ? 3 crore each. Under SDF, funds are not given to MLAs, but to the department, and the CM has discretion to fulfil assurances given during his visit to a constituency or village in a district. There is no roleof theMLAin SDF and works are executed by the  
 
 However, sources say even if the MLA does nothave a rolein SDF, he would still stand to gain by way of the works that are commissioned in his constituency.
 
