NEW DELHI: Following  's allegation that Dalits in Uttar Pradesh are being targeted following the April 2 agitation in the country, BSP chief   on Sunday supported the MP’s allegation and said that the BJP-ruled states are committing atrocities against the Dalits.

 
 "Bharat bandh protest was largely successful. This has left the   scared and authorities in the BJP-ruled states have started atrocities towards Dalits. Many Dalits and members of their families are being arrested," Mayawati said.
 
 Mayawati's reaction came into the backdrop of similar concerns raised by BJP MP Udit Raj from Uttar Pradesh, late yesterday evening.
 
 Raj had alleged that following the April 2 protests, Dalits are being framed in false cases and "are also being beaten".
 
  
  
 "Appeal to the party and government that they must look into this immediately. I am not one of those Dalit leaders and party members who'll keep quiet in my own interest, not telling the party at right time would have been a selfish act. Two-and-half years ago, I (warned) said that Dalits are getting angry," Raj Said.
 
 Dalit protesters had blocked trains, clashed with police and set fire to vehicles in violent protests across seven states on April 2 against the alleged dilution of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, leaving at least 11 people dead and many injured.
 
 However, Mayawati refuted Raj's concern and said that the Dalit community will not forgive the BJP's Dalit MPs.
 
 "I am confident that the country's proud Dalits will not forgive the selfish BJP MPs," she said.
 
 Earlier, three more BJP MPs from Uttar Pradesh, all belonging to scheduled castes, had written letters to Prime Minister   expressing their unhappiness on the treatment of Dalits in the country.
 
 BJP MP from Uttar Pradesh's Nagina, Yashwant Singh, in a letter to Prime Minister slammed the government for not doing "a single work for the welfare of Dalits during its four years in power".
 
 “When Narendra Modi became the PM and made a statement that the BJP government will work for the welfare of the poor, Dalits and OBCs, it created hope us. But, nothing has been done for Dalits by the central government so far,” read the letter dated April 2.
 
 Singh said there was no representation of Dalit Samaj in courts. “As a result, courts were coming up with new verdicts aimed at curtailing our rights every day,” he wrote.
 
 “In the present situation, BJP’s Dalit MPs are victims of daily harassment from own Samaj. It has become difficult for us to respond,” Singh wrote.
 
 In a similar letter to PM on Thursday, Etawah MP Ashok Kumar Dohrey had said Dalits and tribals across the country, especially in UP, are being framed by police in false cases after the protests, leading to a sense of growing insecurity among them.
 
 Earlier, Robertsganj Lok Sabha MP Chhotelal Kharwar had written to Modi and accused UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath of scolding him when he went to take up an issue with him.
 
 
 
 
