NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has filed a   against the   of a school in  , the  , two teachers and a   for not reporting the   on a four-year old girl by a   in November 2017.

 Sources said Section 75 of Juvenile Justice Act (neglecting complaints of assault by a child in a manner likely to cause unnecessary mental or physical suffering) and Section 21 of POCSO Act were added to the existing FIR after it was found that the school authorities had allegedly tried to hush up the matter.
 
 The chargesheet, filed before a court on January 15, says that instead of taking up the matter with police, the school authorities had insisted that the child’s mother speak to a counsellor and even tried to “resolve” the matter that day as it was a Sunday.
 
 Since the accused is a child below seven years of age, a final report would be filed before a magistrate, police said. In the final report, police will also mention remedial measures taken against the accused child, who was counselled by a group of professionals.
 
 CCTV footage from near the washroom where the accused child had allegedly used his fingers and a sharpened pencil to sexually assault the girl has been taken as evidence. It was found that no teacher or a caretaker was present at the spot for a long time even after the child is seen stepping out clearly shocked by the incident.
 
 The accused child had allegedly sexually assaulted the girl on two occasions after lunch hours, which was reported after she complained about pain in her abdomen.
 
 The medical report of the girl, her statement under CrPC Section 164 and the counselling report of the accused child have been mentioned as supporting documents with the final report and the chargesheet. A report by Delhi Legal Services Authority, which had counselled the accused child, has also been cited.
 
 Police had come under criticism from legal experts who had questioned the registration of an FIR as the accused child is below the age of seven. A special police team had been formed for interrogating the school coordinator and principal to establish their role in not reporting the incident.
 
 
