PANAJI:   cases in Goa are on the rise with a majority of them being reported in Vasco and Candolim, health officials said on Tuesday.

 While 150 dengue cases were registered in 2016, 235 cases were registered in 2017. Deputy director, national vector-borne disease control programme, Dr Anant Palekar said that a higher number of dengue cases are being reported in other states too, which is why a similar rise is also being seen in Goa. An active surveillance through health centres and hospitals attached to the directorate of health services has helped to detect more cases.
 
 
  
 
 “As many as 43 dengue cases were detected in Vasco and 30 cases in Candolim. Most of the dengue cases in Goa are reported in these two places,” Palekar said.
 
 “Controlling dengue is a little difficult. The aedes aegypti mosquito, a carrier of the virus that causes dengue  , is a day biter and breeds in clean waters,” he added.
 
 “People shut their doors and windows and apply mosquito repellants to keep mosquitos, that carry the   virus, at bay. But, when it comes to the aedes aegypti mosquito, no such precautions are feasible,” said Palekar.
 
 He said the best possible measure to stop the aedes aegypti mosquito from flourishing, is to kill its breeding at source. “Don’t allow water to accumulate in containers in the house. Flower plots, water stored in small containers to meet water scarcity, can be an ideal for breeding of the aedes aegypti mosquito. We advise people to stop mosquito breeding at source. Once a week, empty all vessels used for storing water,” said Palekar.
 
 The health official pointed out that people who face water shortages are more likely to store water in all possible containers for days together, ignorant about the fact that they are breeding mosquitos in their house.
 
 “Even a plate holding a flowerpot to collect water has to be cleaned once a week. Merely throwing away water from the plate once a week will not serve the purpose. It needs to be nicely cleaned before being reused, or else any aedes egypti eggs left in the plate will be incubated,” said Palekar.
 
 
