GURUGRAM: The accident inside Sikanderpur underpass on Sunday morning that left two persons dead has brought to the fore the dangerous phenomenon that’s commonplace among commuters in NCR — driving down the wrong carriageway, ostensibly as a short-cut.

 It’s a habit that has the potential to cause considerable risk to human life. Experts believe to curb  , a mix of enforcement and awareness is the need of the hour.   cops say they can’t be on roads 24x7, and that these violations generally take place during odd hours, when their presence is minimum. They say empty roads invite the most number of drivers to take a short cut down the wrong side of the carriageway. “A lot of people want to take short cuts to reduce travel as per their convenience,” said ACP (traffic) Sandeep Malik.
 
  
  But on Monday morning, TOI photographers who went around Gurugram and Noida found what anyone driving on roads in NCR cities does, not during odd hours but at all times of the day. Wrong-side driving is rampant, on main roads and internal lanes alike, and even on speedways like the Delhi-Gurugram expressway and the newly developed Delhi-Meerut Expressway (NH-24). Autos, bikes, cars and e-rickshaws, even buses, when they have enough room to squeeze in, are the offenders.
 
 Starting today, TOI will run a series of reports in both Gurugram and Noida focusing on this problem, the places that have become accident-prone as a result, and possible solutions to fix this. 
 
 “I’ve seen people speed in the morning hours, especially on parts of roads where they have to take a longer route. On Golf Course Road, for example, some people whiz past on narrow service lanes at night,” said Naveen, a resident of Sector 56 in Gurugram.
 
 But the number of challans issued by police does not reflect the magnitude of the problem — in Gurugram, fines for wrong-side driving only comprised 8% of the 7lakh challans issued by police; in Noia, where the problem is perceived to be more serious, the total percentage was 5% (of 1.47 lakh challans). 
 
 According to road safety experts gaps in medians that facilitate U-turns are few and far between, which encourages commuters to drive down the wrong side. “A driver unfamiliar with places like Sikanderpur and Cyber City often takes the wrong side because of ignorance. However, in most cases, it’s because of an “I don’t care” attitude,” said Ashish Sharma, programme manager at Haryana Vision Zero, an NGO which aims to reduce traffic accidents.
 
 Experts believe infrastructure has evolved faster than pace of dissemination of information about these changes. “There needs to be a sustained spread of information. People can’t suddenly be bombarded with signage, and be expected to follow them immediately,” Sharma said. Experts also said Sunday’s accident could force the city into experimenting with other measures, including ‘tyre killers’, which were briefly introduced in Pune last month.
 
 
