NEW DELHI: The   on Saturday approved promulgation of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Ordinance, 2018, aimed at empowering authorities to attach and confiscate proceeds of crime — changes in law which will have implications for absconders like jewellers   and   and former liquor baron  .

 
 TOI was the first to report on March 1 about the government’s expected move to enact a law to seize the assets of economic offenders and then on April 17 about the Centre’s plan to bring an ordinance to put a check on such fugitives.
 
 
 
 The ordinance is also expected to deter economic offenders from evading the process of Indian law by remaining outside the jurisdiction of domestic courts, as has been the case with high-profile fugitives who left the country before any formal notice was issued against them by law enforcement authorities.
 
 Authorities say a special forum will be created for expeditious confiscation of proceeds of crime, in India or abroad, and this can make a fugitive return to India to face the law. The ordinance is expected to give added teeth to the authorities as not returning to India could mean substantial losses.
 
 The ordinance, once promulgated, would also help banks and other financial institutions to achieve higher recovery from defaults committed by such offenders, improving the financial health of such institutions while having a demonstrative effect with regard to large defaults or diversions of loans.
 
 In order to ensure that courts are not overburdened with such cases, only those cases where the total value involved in such offences is Rs 100 crore or more is within the purview of this ordinance.
 
 After the loan fraud at state-run  , allegedly triggered by Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, who have both fled the country, the government approved the Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill, 2018 and it was introduced in the   on March 12.
 
 Authorities felt the existing civil and criminal provisions were not adequate to deal with the severity of the problem. 
 
 In the 2017-18 Budget, the government signalled it is considering introduction of legislative changes or even a new law to confiscate the assets of such absconders till they submit to jurisdiction of the appropriate legal forum.
 
 The bill was listed for approval in the Lok Sabha several times after its introduction but the House has since been adjourned sine die and both Houses of   were prorogued on April 6, prompting the government to bring an ordinance to roll out the tough law against fugitive economic offenders.
 
 The ordinance has been approved in order to address the deficiency in the present laws and lay down measures to deter economic offenders from evading the process of Indian law by remaining outside the jurisdiction of Indian courts. 
 
 The ordinance has a provision for a court (“special court” under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002) to declare a person as a fugitive economic offender. 
 
 A fugitive economic offender is a person against whom an arrest warrant has been issued in respect of a scheduled offence and who has left India to avoid criminal prosecution, or being abroad, refuses to return to India to face criminal prosecution.
 
