Though most opinion polls have predicted a hung assembly in Karnataka with   emerging the second largest party, its chief ministerial candidate 
  says he is determined to wrest Karnataka from  . In an interview with Manu Aiyappa, Yeddyurappa says his party is confident of winning the assembly polls and becoming chief minister again. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 More than my mission, the surveys would be more appropriate if they were conducted after the announcement of candidates. It would be a good idea to conduct the surveys now. Ahead of UP polls last year, most surveys went wrong and BJP came out in flying colours. This was also true in Tripura and Gujarat, and other states later. The same will happen in Karnataka too.
 
 
 
 
 That’s not true. Modiji was occupied with various engagements in India and abroad. Most of these programmes were scheduled a few months in advance. As PM, he cannot change these schedules. Despite his hectic schedule, he is campaigning in Karnataka from this month-end and will prove all opinion polls wretchedly wrong. Never in the history of Karnataka has the state unit received so much support from the central leadership. Besides Chanakya (BJP national chief Amit Shah), all Union ministers are here backing us.
 
 
 
 
 
 That’s not true. The party decided not to give tickets to any MP other than me and B Sreeramulu. And they have abided by the decision. Shobha had no aspiration to contest the polls, though many of her supporters wanted her to contest from Yeshwantpur. Vijayendra decided to contest from Varuna under pressure from party workers from Mysuru. However, our central leadership felt it was not appropriate to field father and son when I am being projected as chief ministerial candidate. I found their concern genuine and agreed.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think Veerashaiva-Lingayats have taken the denial of ticket to Vijayendra more seriously than the evil designs of the   to divide their community and deprive a Lingayat of chief ministership. Have you seen any Congressman talking about the religious minority issue of late? This suggests that their decision has boomeranged and they will pay the price.
 
 
 
 
 We are relying on Sreeramulu and not Reddy to win Ballari and neighbouring districts. No doubt Reddy is very well known in Ballari and is supporting some of our candidates... We haven’t given any ticket to any candidate at his instance, but based only on the survey of winnability. Not only Reddy, many troubled me when I was CM but I have forgotten and forgiven them all.
 
 
 
 
 There is no doubt that Sreeramulu will win in Badami against Siddaramaiah, since the CM is relying only on Kuruba votes while our candidate is popular among all communities.
 
 
 
 
 That’s not true. No such decision has been made.
 
 
 
 
 Everyone, including Union minister HN Ananth Kumar, KS Eshwarappa and Shobha Karandlaje are working hard to bring the party to power and make me CM. There is no rift.
 
 
