Thiruvananthapuram: Folk singer and chairman of folklore academy C J Kuttappan and music director Jassie Gift will unite to present a new version of the popular folk song ‘Aadi illallo andam illalo’.

 The song will be presented as the theme song of second edition of the  . Around thirty dancers led by Madhu Samudra and Sajeev Samudra will perform to the tune of the song.
 
 The fest, which is being organized by state youth welfare board, will be held from February 16 to 18. Kanakakkunnu, Manveeyam Veedhi and Nishagandhi will be the venues. Proclamation events for the same will be organized in the city on February 15.
 
 Vellari Natakam, an art form that was performed at paddy fields in the past, will be a major attraction among the proclamation programmes to be organized in the city on Thursday.   will be staged at 6.30pm.
 
 The art form has a history of over a century. In the past, young people who were shielding paddy fields from the attack of robbers and wild animals during nights would spend time by performing art forms. 
 
 Mainly, poor and illiterate young men had been deputed to guard paddy fields. They would crack jokes and tell stories of love and deceit in colloquial language.
 
 A group of art historians attribute the origin of Malayalam drama to Vellari Natakam. On Thursday, a rural market will be recreated at Kanakakunnu where Vellari Natakam will be staged. Art forms like Kakkarissi Natakam and cycle yajna will also be staged along with.
 
 The organizers of the fest said that the folk song ‘Aadi illallo’ encapsulates the traditional knowledge about the origin of the universe. 
 
 The perceptions about universe in folk art forms is the theme of the fest and the song symbolises this concept, said P Biju, vice-chairman youth welfare board and Karamana Hari, programme director. 
 
 The performance and song presentation will be held on February 16 soon after the inauguration of the event. The performance spans 12 minutes.
 
 The seminar scheduled to be held on February 17 at Institute of Engineers Hall also focuses on perception of universe in folk art forms. 
 
 The seminar will be inaugurated by T K Hamsa, chairman of Kondotty Moithen Kutty Vaidyar Mappila Kala Academy. Writer Rosy Thampi, 
 
 M A Siddique and folk art researcher Pradeep Pandanadu will attend the seminar.
 
 
