HYDERABAD: The stamps and registration department is caught between the   and property claimants, regarding the registration of plots and lands in Manikonda. A blanket ban has been imposed in  , as Miyapur land is listed in the prohibitory list of the Waqf board.

 Plot owners argue that they have pattas. They alsosaythat the Supreme court judgment in the Lanco Hills case applies to them too and are hence demanding the lifting of the ban, quoting a charge sheet filed by police that revealed that specific survey numbers were fraudulently enteredinto recordstoclaim as Waqf land.
 
 The issue has gained significance as an   application for obtaining note files regarding Waqf properties is coming up on Monday with the  .
 
 According to the Waqf board, ‘Manikonda Jagir’ was given to the Dargah Hazrath Hussain Shah Wali by the Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan, who issued a ‘firman’ in the 1920s naming the area as serviceInam land.
 
 The Waqf lands are attached to  , and a gazette notification is statesthey are waqf properties.
 
 Serilingampally sub registrar M S Charan told TOI, “Registration ban is at 1364 acres that is in the 22 A(1) list given by Waqf board. Locals hold that their registrations have been stalled due to which they can’t transfer the property. The issue is now between the state government and Waqf board. Discussions and meetings are still on. As of now we can’t register these lands,” He had written a letter toTelangana Waqf Board CEOin July 2017on thesame.
 
 Stamps and registration department at Ranga Reddy, DIG V V Naidu told TOI,” Unless Waqf Board gives use in writing to remove Manikonda land from prohibitory list, we will not register theselands.”
 
 RTI activist P Suresh told TOI, “The government should file a petition to vacate in high court, on certain survey numbers. In 1989, an area of 3165 sq yards was notified in the name of the Dargah. In 2005 the survey commissioner of the Waqf board dept claimed to have conducted a second survey. But Raidurgam police found that the document was forged. in details of waqf properties. The second survey report is contrary to the first survey report. In the second survey report, “Column No. 11” listing Waqf properties, originally shown as “Nil”, was subsequently changed to show an area of 1654.32 acres, in a different handwriting. But Waqf official say that entire land belongs to them, hoping for a verdict in their favour.”
 
