NAGPUR: Getting no assistance from the police, a pregnant minor (17) committed suicide by hanging herself from ceiling fan at her residence in   on Thursday. Soon, the police rushed to register an offence of rape and abetment of suicide against her paramour  , for which she had gone to them earlier. 

 In yet another case, Nandanvan police allegedly turned away a woman earlier this week without registering an offence of rape saying consensual sex cannot be termed as an offence. The woman, whose husband had left her after the birth of their two children, is now being repeatedly threatened.
 
 The two-month pregnant minor and her family members had gone to Kalamna police station on January 16 to register a complaint against   and other members his family. The Dhakates too were at the police station. The cops sent the families back after registering non-cognizable offences against both. They were also issued a warning.
 
 The girl’s family claimed that Kalamna police paid no heed to their grievances. “The cops were in no mood to know the background,” said her sobbing mother. 
 
 The family members of the girl also held Kanhan police in Nagpur Rural responsible for the tragic turn of events as there was a kidnapping incident registered in September last year which they did not probe.
 
 It’s learnt that the girl a drop out after Std X, had befriended Kailash who stayed in the neighbourhood. Kailash was into selling vegetables. The minor stitched clothes at home. Her mother was a grocer while father worked as a private security guard. She had a younger brother. 
 
 The minor and Kailash had eloped in August last year but the families ensured that they returned. Her family then shifted the girl to Kanhan to stay with some relatives. She once again eloped with Kailash from Kanhan in September following which an offence was registered by the rural police. 
 
 The couple had gone to   in Chhattisgarh where they stayed for a few days before returning. In the city, the couple first moved into a rented place before Kailash took her home. Soon, bickering started between the couple that resulted in a rift. The girl went to her parent’s home while Kailash went underground. 
 
 On January 16, the girl’s mother went to Kailash’s place on learning that he had returned. 
 
 There was a scuffle between her and Kailash’s family members following which both went to Kalamna police station. 
 
 After returning from the police station, Kailash once again had a wordy duel with the girl and he threatened to leave her. The minor then killed herself.
 
 Senior PI Khushal Tijare of Kalamna police station said the girl had misled the cops stating she was 18 years old and that her husband was missing. “The girl and her family did not mention about the rape or pregnancy but wanted the cops to take action against the Dhakate family for manhandling, which we did,” he said.
 
 In the Nandanvan case, the survivor, along with a social worker, complained to the police that the man with whom she was having an affair for the last five years was going to marry another person. “The police refused to take down our complaint and instead wrote his own version,” said the social worker Sunita Thakre.
 
 However, police inspector Nalawade claimed that they did not mention about rape at all when she came to complain on January 13. “Today I have received a complaint in which rape is mentioned. Now I will act accordingly,” he said.
 
 A teacher too had ended life
 
 A delay by Pachpaoli police to register an offence had resulted in the suicide of a tuition teacher last month. He had gone to the cops with a complaint of harassment by a few guardians of his students at a class at Awale Babu Chowk. He had also claimed to have been forced to cough up Rs3.50 lakhs as compensation by the guardians on flimsy grounds.
 
 Pachpaoli police told him that senior PI   will discuss his case the next day. The teacher was further harassed by some other activists. He then ended life at his Jaripatka residence. The Jaripatka cops then registered an offence. 
 
 
