AMRITSAR: After refusing to take off his turban while being photographed for official documents and challenging the French government’s turban ban orders in the court of law for almost 29 years, octogenarian   finally bid adieu to France and returned to India on Thursday.

 Talking to TOI, Ranjit Singh rued that neither the Akal Takht nor any Sikh body in India helped him in his fight for the cause of turban. However, he was appreciative of a couple of French Sikh leaders who had stood by him in thick and thin. He said he had even quit the IAF job in 1974 after the government ordered Sikh soldiers to tie their beard.
 
 Manpreet Singh, son of Ranjit, said his father had gone to Germany and later settled in France. “When he was about to get residency, he was asked to get photographed by removing his turban, which he refused. Following this, he was was left with no option but to fight against French orders. Now, he has finally returned to India,” he said. Ranjit alleged that the French government had been violating the religious freedom of Sikhs by asking them to get photographed for identity cards and other government documents after removing their turbans. But he didn’t sit quiet and took up the issue with the UN, which backed Ranjit’s stand and blamed France for violating religious freedom of Sikhs.
 
 Stating that return of Ranjit to India was a big jolt to French Sikhs’ fight against turban ban, president of Paris-based human rights body Aurore Dawn Iqbal Singh Bhatti said the UN’s decision was not legally binding for the French government.
 
 In 2004, the French government had passed a law banning wearing of religious symbols in schools. Since then Sikhs had been fighting the battle for the turban pride. Bhatti said Sikhs in France were asked to remove their turban while being photographed for government identity cards or for passport or driving licence.
 
  (DSGMC) president Manjit Singh GK, who honoured Ranjit upon his arrival from France, said their committee would take up the issue with the Indian Prime Minister.
 
 
