Chennai: Why your NRI cousin matters more than ever. With a host of private banks, including Citi, moving away from allowing their debit and credit card holders to buy bitcoins, enthusiasts are now tapping into their own NRI network of friends and family members for purchase of the ‘alegal currency.’ On Monday, the Blockchain and Cryptocurrency Committee (BACC) said it would look at proposals for further compliance with the Finance Ministry with user database, transaction records apart from Aadhaar and PAN card submission. With Indian exchanges like Unocoin, Zebpay, Coinsecure, keen on increasing regulation and scrutiny into transactions, bitcoin affindoes say buying from US exchanges is a more popular alternative for purchases. 

 “For the online tech community, there are some who receive bitcoins as payment for gadget and video game reviews. But for regular purchases, one has to get a relative or friend with an overseas account to send over bitcoins,” said L R Dinesh, a biker, who uses bitcoins to buy expensive cycle parts on overseas online sites. 
 
 But bitcoin enthusiasts say that the main attraction with bitcoins is anonymity. From e-cigarettes, drugs, video games or payment for proxy servers to the dark net, anonymous purchases is what drives bitcoin usage. “People would want to shield their payments from the government, corporates or even their own families. With big data and consumer tracking websites, the need for privacy is heightened,” said Dana L Coe, CEO, BitLox.
 
 Tracking people’s spending habits is how corporates increase the cost of goods, he said. “If you are purchasing a particular medicine and someone collects the data and sells it to a pharmaceutical company — these companies can use sets of such demographic information to increase prices. Differential pricing, blanket invasion of privacy cannot happen if one uses anonymous and private payments,” said Coe.
 
 “The requirement of Aadhaar is a dampener. The community of techies, bloggers and geeks are quite antipathic to the continuous stem of leaks and insecurities reported with Aadhaar. To try and unite bitcoins (the very point being anonymous payments) with compliance is going to keep real bitcoin miners away from Indian exchanges,” said Dinesh.
 
 Another incentive for Indians, who buy from overseas online sites is the security that comes with bitcoin purchases.
 
  “In India, RBI has mandated two-factor authentication for all online transactions. But outside of India, only single-factor authentication is required. So when it comes to using one’s credit or debit card to buy products on overseas sites one also runs the risk of compromising sensitive financial data and hacks. So using bitcoins would add one layer of security,” says Dhamodharan Sampathkumar, chief delivery officer and GM, APAC, Rennovite Technologies. 
 
 But some say some amount of regulation and scrutiny is inevitable, given the all too real possibility of bitcoins being used for terrorism. Chennai-based personal financial advisor Ishwar Prasad said, “We are still a far cry away from Japan where it has been accepted as legal tender. But if you see most countries have already started working out regulations for cryptocurrencies like Australia and Malaysia,” said Prasad. Prasad, who has invested in bitcoins, said that he has even advised his clients to invest in bitcoins. “As an asset class, they on average given 40-50% return on investment, which I would say is very good given that most equity funds would give 15-18% returns on average. Even though currently, there is no regulation in India it should not be a problem. One can always show the audit trail of how payments were made and for what reasons."
 
 
