NEW DELHI:   between   in Delhi and   over   or   has delayed   and piled up cases in courts.

 Taking note of these, Delhi high court has laid down guidelines to ensure better coordination between the civic agencies and the private contractors to whom they award work.
 
 Justice Pratibha Singh, in a recent order, identified the recurring problems between the two parties while hearing a batch of 43 appeals and noted that agreements between the municipal corporations and contractors often don’t even adhere to the general principles of contract.
 
 “Adherence to the above shall ensure that the works are duly carried out as per the quality standards prescribed and there is proper record of work being done. Once the work is carried out, payments ought not to be delayed, as delay in payments compromises on availability of quality civil work for the corporations,” the court noted while issuing the norms.
 
 HC directed that from now on, along with the work order, all the clauses of the contract should be attached. Once the work is awarded to a private contractor “periodic inspections of the work being carried out should be done by the engineer-in-charge; if possible, photographs of the works at different stages should be taken and maintained on the record.”
 
 HC’s guidelines also make it mandatory for the contractors to timely submit interim bills, certifying the work which has been carried out. Similarly, final bills submitted by the contractor duly certifying the work carried out should be accompanied with photographs.
 
 Referring to another aspect of the contract that leads to disputes, Justice Singh said for refunds of security deposit and earnest money deposit, contractors must comply with conditions in the clause. 
 
 The court said for refunds to be made, payment of final bill need not be awaited and if the conditions are complied with and the final bill is passed, refunds should to be made.
 
 To ease the lenghthy documentation process involved in each work award HC advised the corporations to ramp up their IT infrastructure so that proper record of work orders, inspection reports, final bills, photographs etc can be maintained digitally.
 
 “It is noticed that the trial court record does not contain all the relevant documents and in several cases, different versions of clauses are relied upon by both sides, bills are not properly understandable and there is no evidence of actual inspections or measurements having been taken. Maintenance of digital records will make it more transparent and easily accessible for the officials and for production in the court in case of future litigation,” Justice Singh noted.
 
 
