NAGPUR: The second, and also the concluding day, of ‘Technex’18’ witnessed tough battles in the semi-final and final rounds of various events. The annual technical fest was organized at St Vincent Pallotti College of Engineering and Technology ( ).

 Not only the contestants but the crowd also got into the act while cheering respective teams. The arenas for the various events were set up by respective coordinators who said the preparation made them think out-of-the-box and also presented new challenges.
 
 While in the event Aquacombat, the bots had a splash in the water, Skywar needed the bots to fly high and far. Another event, Criddle, brought out the adventurous spirit and the detective within the contestants by making them solve riddles and perform various tasks.
 
 Another highlight was Projectmania in which the students had put up an exhibition of projects mostly based on android apps and robots. Hi-end technologies and devices were used to create the project. 
 
 Final year students of SVPCET, Nikhil Gangwani, Shreya Bapat and Pratik Wanjari had developed an app with a SOS feature to help accident-hit people. The app could also help keep watch on the car from far away, thereby preventing theft or harm.
 
 Coordinator of  , Chaitanya   told TOI that students from Jaipur, Jodhpur, Pondicherry, Telangana, Vellore, Pune, Mumbai, Dhule and more had participated in this fest. “Technex had a mix of technical or non-technical contests which also had elements of fun. Such a fest gives you much-needed exposure and helps you gauge your potential among equally tech-savvy participants, thereby motivating you to improve,” he said. 
 
 Anthony Augustine, assistant professor at SVPCET, felt that the fest overall helped students adapt to the technological shift towards automation. “Participation in the fests could also help students in the recruitment process as top industries are associated with it,” he said.
 
 At the valedictory function, winners were given cash prizes worth Rs4 lakh. SVPCET director  , assistant director Father Anto, financial administrator Father Siju, HR head Father  , principal VV Sohoni, vice-principal RB Gowardhan, and co-coordinator of Technex’18 Anoj   were also present.
 
 
