TRICHY: The residents of   took to the streets on Thursday to celebrate the decision of   to drop the village from the proposed hydrocarbon project. They burst crackers and distributed sweets expressing delight at the news that the Bengaluru-based company — whose objective is listed as manufacturing basic chemicals — reportedly urged the central government for a new location to go ahead with the project, as they wished to pull out of Neduvasal.

 The villagers stated that their prolonged protests had finally borne fruit and thanked people from various walks of life for showing solidarity with their cause.   general secretary Vaiko termed it as a “people’s victory”.
 
 “Though any announcement regarding this has not been made by the central government, it still feels like we have attained independence of sorts,” said A Neelakandan, a resident of the village. “Everyone from our village – and the surrounding 70 villages – is rejoicing at this development. Hence, we all reached the spot where we staged demonstrations to celebrate the news by bursting crackers,” he said.
 
 The news has also come at a time when the villagers are planning an intensified protest this month after they felt that the central government had not conceded their demand to shelve the project. A few of the protesters, though happy at the latest news, said they might revive the protest if they did not get an official announcement from the Centre or state government about the withdrawal of the project from Neduvasal. “The battle is only half won. Only when we get the news from the government will we be satisfied entirely. Not only that, we demand that the Centre not allow the hydrocarbon project anywhere in  ,” said Senthil Dass, Neduvasal protester and playback singer.
 
 Meanwhile, an official of the   (ONGC) said he was unaware about the reported developments, but added that the recent news was a “more possible and expected outcome”. “Though I am completely unaware about any such development, in the existing circumstances, the company (GEM Laboratories) cannot do anything here in Neduvasal,” he told TOI. 
 
 Residents of Neduvasal and other surrounding villages have been conducting frequent protests since February last year against the proposed oil and gas extraction process citing environmental concerns and the effects it could have on their agriculture lands. 
 
 
