THANE: A young dance teacher and a teenaged girl were found dead, within metres of each other, on railway tracks between Diva and   stations on Friday. 

 It appears to be a suicide pact, said the police. Initial reports said the two had tied their hands to each other's with a piece of cloth before being struck by a train.
 
 "It is believed that the two were upset with their families, who had opposed their relationship, and ventured out on the live tracks on the Diva-Panvel line, determined to end their lives by throwing themselves before a running train. Their bodies were recovered separately by the police from the same area but at an interval of six hours,'' said senior inspector   of Thane railway police.
 
 The 20-year-old man and the 15-year-old girl were reported missing from their respective homes since Thursday late evening. The man's body was noticed after midnight by Niljhe station officials, who alerted the police. Cops went to the spot and took him to hospital, where the youth was declared dead. At dawn, the police team was alerted about a girl lying unconscious a few metres ahead. She was also declared dead on arrival by the hospital staff.
 
  The youth worked in a company in   near   in Navi Mumbai and also taught dance to children from a plush residential complex in Niljhe near  . He is believed to have met the college-going girl, who stays nearby, during the course of his teaching, and the two apparently developed a bond. But their families were opposed to any relationship, said a cop. 
 
 The two families denied that the youngsters were in anyway known to each other. "We were waiting for him to come home and panicked when he didn't return even an hour after his usual time. We approached the police, who told us a girl is also missing. We had no idea about the involvement of our brother with any girl," said the youth's sibling.
 
 The girl's uncle denied that she ever went to any dance class. Her parents had thought that she was at her friend's place for studies. They were informed of the death only on Friday morning and are in a deep state of shock, said the relative.
 
 The police have registered an accidental death case, but senior officials said it could be revised after inquiries. 
 
 
