Barefoot running is a rage across the globe and judging by the turnout on International Barefoot Running Day on Sunday, Mumbai's runners seem to be loving it, too! Also called 'skinny dipping of the feet', Mumbaikars celebrated it with a 2-km distance barefoot run across the city.

 
 
 At 5.45 am, close to 18 runners’ groups comprising of women gathered at various parts of the city - after the initial warm-up, the barefoot brigade took off in a 2-4 km run 15 minutes later. The trails earmarked for it were Girgaum Chowpatty Beach,  , Musical Gardens at Andheri, Juhu Beach and more. Homemaker and avid runner   Salvi ran barefoot with her group at Girgaum Chowpatty. “It was such a fun experience," she says, smiling and adding, "We have run on other trails before, but the feeling of going barefoot completely on the sands was something else. It was tougher too.” chartered accountant Kavita Mehendale, a first-timer, found the workout challenging.
 
 “We learnt of International Barefoot Running Day on our WhatsApp group, where the members were planning to take part in it. For many of us, running barefoot was a new experience. It was tough to balance at first, but then we began to sweat it out — it turned out to be a superb workout!” Their only grouse was the litter on the beach. “We wished we could have done the 2-km run non-stop, but as the beach was littered with trash we managed to clear a 500-metre stretch along the shore and did loops,” said Deeti Kajaria, professor at Somaiya College. 
 
 Logistics expert Aparna D’Souza and her pals began their 5-km run from   in Dadar and caught up with one of the barefoot running group at Worli Sea Face. “We linked our run with this beginners group, who ran from Worli Dairy to the start of the Sea Link to boost them. It wasn’t easy considering the road conditions, but it put less pressure on the knees,” she admits. 
 
  chose to do the trail with a running group based in Andheri at 4 pm. “We wanted to avoid the morning heat. The group took off on a special route after doing a bit of zumba stretch. The challenge was to not just avoid the garbage, but the traffic as well,” says the homemaker, adding, “Many people stopped us to ask the reason for running barefoot. They wanted to join us, so it was nice to inspire others.” .
 
 
 
 Dance teacher   found the experience akin to be the same as her dance practice. “Whether you dance or run barefoot, it makes you stay ‘earthed’. In that 45-minute run, it was a wonderful flow of energy through the feet as we felt connected to the Earth. Normally you feel the energy flowing from head to the foot when you run on the Marine Drive stretch, but here the flow was from the foot to head; it was so energising,” she says.
 
 Kranti adds, “When you run barefoot, the muscles of your feet get active from direct contact with the surface (they get dull when you wear shoes). I tried barefoot running around my building and found it rejuvenating; it makes you alert.”
 
  says this could be the wellness mantra people are looking for. “It was not just cooler on the feet without shoes, but I also felt more focused and alert while running this way. I wish people could take off their shoes more often, especially in offices. This is already a trend in the West. How about starting that here? Being barefoot sends out positive vibrations through the feet into the whole body. It’s like a natural acupressure for the soles,” she says.
 
 
 
 Advises orthopaedic specialist Dr  , “Barefoot running is good, but watch the surface you run on. In a city like ours, it’s advisable to run on the sands or grass, rather than a concrete road. This form of running also works for flat-footed people who sometimes find it tough to run in shoes. With so many warnings about sitting being the new smoking today, it may be a good idea for workplaces to invest in an indoor track, which will boost activity and decrease mental and physical fatigue.” 
 
 
 
 Barefoot running makes you land on your forefeet than your heel (known as heel strike), which reduces the impact to the ankle and knee joints. It is also said to allow a longer stride and improve the natural gait.
 
 
 
 Celebrities are known to include barefoot running as part of their fitness regimen. Milind Soman runs barefoot in marathons and endorses it, too. Internationally, Prince Harry, Scarlett Johansson, Kate Hudson, Kristen Stewart and Hugh Jackman are known 
 to favour this form of running. 
 
