CHANDIGARH:A day after the   declared Class X exam results, the   education   is yet to compile the result of 89  . However, sources in the   said more than 50% schools have a pass percentage below 50%.

 
 Similar to Class XII results, many schools have results as low as 15%. Around 10,890 students had appeared for the board exams from government schools.
 
 Department officials said they were going to issue showcause notices to principals of all government schools with pass percentage below 50. Teachers would be asked to take remedial classes in summer vacations for compartment students. An email in this regard has already been forwarded to schools.
 
 It reads, “It has been decided by the department that teachers whose result is in the negative will be conducting remedial classes for compartmental students of classes X and XII during summer vacation, so that the result can be improved. The principal will also visit their schools during the break to monitor the remedial classes.”
 
 Officials said results of only 41 out of 89 schools had been compiled till Wednesday. All these 41 schools have a pass percentage of 50 and above. Results of certain schools were sent back following confusion in figures, officials said. Sources said the other 48 schools have a pass percentage below 50.
 
 According to the data shared by district education office, 18 out of 41 schools managed to get pass percentage above 70. Only three schools have pass percentage above 90. These include government model senior secondary schools in sectors 16, 28 D and 44. Only 10 schools have pass percentage between 60 and 70 and 13 between 50 and 60. “Principals of 14 government schools who had performed poorly in the CBSE Class XII results have already been sent a show-cause notice. Show-cause notices will be sent to schools with poor results in Class X as well,” said a senior officer. The teacher unions called the email on remedial classes a “Tughlaqi farman”. “If it is not taken back, we will protest,” said Swarn Singh Kamboj, president, UT Cadre Educational Employees Union.
 
