Kolkata/Jhargram: The killing of the Lalgarh   on Friday afternoon has brought the role of foresters — who had been tracking the tiger for over a month but failed to capture it — under the scanner. 

 While there are allegations that the big cat became a victim of the hunting festival in the region, the foresters cited shortage of manpower on being asked why the tiger remained elusive for more than a month even after being clicked in a camera on March 2.
 
 “It’s a tragedy that an endangered animal like tiger had to die like this. And, it’s incomprehensible that the big cat has died at a time when there was so much focus on it,” said Wildlife Protection Society of India (WPSI) executive director Belinda Wright.
 
 State’s chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said: “We had a good idea about the tiger’s movement patterns and locations. We had three tranquillising teams too. But, we can’t surround a big cat — rather we don’t have that manpower — the way hunters do.”
 
 From drones, tranquillising experts and department elephants to cages, camera traps and smart vehicles, the forest department left no stone unturned in tracking and trapping the   tiger, but it remained elusive. Plans were also made to send a sniffer dog from the Sunderbans to sniff out the tiger’s hideout.
 
 But, was there a co-ordinated effort? “When the pugmarks were spotted in January end, why were the camera traps laid in February end?” asked a conservationist, without wishing to be named. A senior forester said the camera traps are mostly used in the Sunderbans and north Bengal — the tiger estimation exercise was under way in the mangroves in February. “We had to weigh all pros and cons before rushing the gadgets to a spot, from where no tiger sighting has been reported in the last 100 years,” he said.
 
 State wildlife advisory board member Joydip Kundu said: “Members of the traditional forest dwelling communities nowadays wear jeans and use mobile phones. So, why do they need to hunt wildlife in the name of tradition?” Sinha, though, said the allegations of tribals’ involvement needed to be probed first.
 
 Wildlife activist Suvrajyoti Chatterjee said: “Members of NGOs such as Public, SPOAR and HEAL had been campaigning against the tribal hunting in the region since 2016. More proactive efforts are needed on the ground to get rid of the menace.”
 
 
