MUMBAI: The recently released   Sentinel Surveillance (HSS) report has some good as well as worrying news for the state. The good news is that the deadly viral disease continues to be on a decline among general population. The worrying part: In certain pockets of the state, the disease is raging among high-risk populations like female sex workers.

 According to the HSS, Maharashtra is 16th in terms of HIV prevalence, a positive shift of four places since the last survey in 2014-15. From 0.29%, the prevalence has reduced to 0.26%. An official from the   (MSACS) said it was a significant drop as the HIV prevalence is now lower than the national average of 0.28%.
 
 But experts say it’s still not time to rejoice as certain sites catering to high-risk populations such as men having sex with men (MSM), injecting drug users and female sex workers have shown a significant prevalence. Though Maharashtra is one of the states to record less than 5% HIV positivity in female sex workers, there are four sites where the prevalence has been found to be 5%. At one site, it was around 10%. Among the female sex workers in the state, the prevalence (3.48%) is more than double the national average (1.56%).
 
 Nagpur-based NGO Indian   (IRCS) that has been working with female sex workers said migration has emerged as a major challenge over the years. “Commercial sex workers have started migrating and moving out of traditional pockets making it difficult to track, test or treat them. It poses a direct threat to the general population,” said Hemlata Lohave from IRCS. She added that dwindling financial resources, too, have made their job difficult. “Often we are working without funds for months. Even now, for instance, we haven’t received money for the last quarter. We regularly lose trained workers as we can’t pay salaries,” she said.
 
 Among MSMs, the state is fifth on the national chart with the prevalence hovering around 4.69%, which is higher than the national average of 2.69%. However, in HSS 2014-15, the HIV prevalence among female sex workers was 7.4% and 4.9% among MSMs.
 
 Mumbai, too, is one of the sites with high HIV prevalence among truckers. There were nine sites with more than 1% HIV prevalence among long-distance truckers, including Mumbai with 1.2% prevalence. 
 
 The MDACS official said the state is working on newer strategies. “We are aware that infections are still high in metropolitan cities. In high-risk pockets, we are testing at the community level. We are also looking at multi-month dispensation of antiretroviral drugs so that a patient can come to us once in three months rather than every month,” he said.
 
 
