GHAZIABAD: A 10-year-old girl, a rape  , was starved and repeatedly beaten up by her stepmother in  . To save herself from the torture, the girl had fled from the home in December last year, and was rescued by the child welfare committee in Gurgaon which kept her at a child protection centre.

 Following counselling sessions and after coming to know that the girl belonged to Ghaziabad, she was transferred here on April 6.
 
 Now living at a shelter home in Ghaziabad, the girl narrated her tale of horror to CWC members. According to her statement, she was made to do all sorts of household chores, including cooking and cleaning, and was subjected to extreme torture by her stepmother and her sons for committing small mistakes in doing the work.
 
 CWC member   said, “Our investigation has revealed that the girl was raped by her father’s landlord in 2016 and a case in this regard was subsequently filed at Kotwali police station. After the incident, the family had moved to Kavi Nagar area.”
 
 As the girl had gone missing in December 2017, an FIR was lodged by her brother in February 2018. In his complaint to Kavi Nagar police, the 21-year-old brother, a vegetable vendor, stated that for the past two months, he was enquiring about her whereabouts with the relatives and did not inform the police. Mentioning the sexual assault in the FIR, he had raised suspicion on the landlord’s father for kidnapping the girl.
 
 When contacted, the brother said that after the death of his mother, his father got married to another woman some six years ago. “She has three children and has been hostile to us since the beginning. My sister bore the brunt and because of that, I had brought her to my place to live. However, I did not know that she was so much traumatised that she would run away from the home. I thought that she was kidnapped by our previous landlord.”
 
 Shalini Singh said that she would write to the state government to grant compensation to the girl under the   Mahila Evam Bal Samman Kosh, which is meant to provide aid to the victims of violence.
 
 The CWC said it will also write to the police, urging it to lodge an FIR against the stepmother.
 
 
