Tirupur: Area under the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) will be expanded from 958.59sqkm to 1,104sqkm with the state government directing Kodaikanal wildlife sanctuary in Dindigul district to handover 146sqkm from its buffer zone.

 ATR, one of four tiger reserves in Tamil Nadu, spreads across Pollachi, Valparai and Udumalpet taluks in Coimbatore and Tirupur districts. It was known as the Indira Gandhi Wildlife Sanctuary and National Park before it was declared a tiger reserve in 2007.
 
 “As per the national tiger conservation authority, entire core and buffer areas should be functioning under one unit administration, so that equal treatment and protection could be provided effectively. But the buffer areas of ATR were administered under different units. So, the government has directed Kodaikanal wildlife sanctuary to handover 146 sq km, a part of buffer area, to ATR. It includes Palani forest range-Andipatti west and east, Kudhiraiyaru east and west, Periyammapatti and Kavalapatti, Poombarai range-Kookal, and Vantharavu range-Pulavachiyar, Polur, Kathirka Odai and Gudalur,” a senior forest department official said.
 
 The expansion will help ATR, which is under constant threat from sandalwood smugglers and illegal ganja plantations, to tighten security apart from providing better management, the official said.
 
 “The administration of the added area will be transferred to ATR, which is controlled by a field director, who works at its headquarters in Pollachi. However, the added area will be directly supervised by the assistant field director (district forest officer) from Udumalpet in Tirupur,” the official told TOI.
 
 Though the direction has been issued, Kodaikanal sanctuary was taking time to handover the area, which should happen along with the transfer of the forest personnel, the official added.
 
 With the expansion, ATR may still remain the third largest protected area in Tamil Nadu. Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve of Erode lead the list and is followed by Kalakkad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve of Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari districts.
 
 
