CHANDIGARH:   have urged the UT administrator for considering their suggestion before finalising the excise policy for the next financial year. The existing excise policy will lapse on March 31.

 Wine   has requested the administrator that the total number of liquor vends should be finalised after due consultation with all the stakeholders. The selection of the site should be left at the discretion of the bidders. At present, only a few out of 22 villages, have liquor vends. The local bodies of villages be motivated and their nod for the opening of liquor vends be sought. The list of the villages which allow opening of liquor vends should be declared before inviting the bids.
 
 There are a total of 22 villages in Chandigarh, of which nine are under the jurisdiction of Chandigarh municipal corporation. The rest of the 13 villages are located within 8-km radius of the city having a population of over 50,000.
 
 The traders also urged that the annual quota and licence fee should be uniform for all the vends. They proposed that the liquor vends should be allotted through draw of lots, so that it gives equal chance to everyone.
 
 President of the association   said that they failed to understand why the administration is not opting for draw of lots method for allotment of vends, when the same policy has been successfully implemented in many states in the country. “This will help in breaking monopoly of few traders,” said Pal.
 
 The traders also urged the department to ensure that the minimum selling price of liquor prescribed in the policy is adhered to. Despite taking action against the erring traders, the department has struggled to put a check on the sale of liquor below the price mentioned in the policy. The traders also requested the department for issuing the permits online.
 
 The UT excise and taxation department recently held a meeting with the liquor traders to take their view for the excise policy.
 
 In the new policy, UT excise and taxation department is planning to increase the reserve price of liquor vends to be put up for auction by up to 15%. Licence fee is also likely to be increased marginally, increasing the rates of different brands of liquor. Over the years, UT has been consistently increasing the liquor rates. Despite the rise, the liquor rates in city are less than those prevailing in   and  . Last year too, the department had increased the minimum reserve price from Rs 177 crore to Rs 202.55 crore.
 
 
