

 Taking on the Conservatives in the Canadian Parliament in her most recent speech,   MP   of the   was her expressive best when she said she was offended every time the Conservatives “in debate after debate after debate” referred to Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s wearing of Indian clothes as costumes.
 
 
 Her emotionally-charged statement to the   has received applause not only from her party colleagues but also from a wider community. Sharing her own story, the MP said, “As a child of immigrant parents who constantly tried to struggle every day to try to be proud of my culture, proud of my heritage. But you couldn’t help just wanting to fit in and think why can’t my parents wear western clothing to my parentteacher’s meeting. May be I will fit in a little bit better, may be the kids won’t make fun of the clothing that we traditionally wear.”
 
 “And this reference that is continually made by the Opposition to our clothing as costumes is outrageous. I wonder if my colleague is offended that I’m wearing his costume right now. Would you call a business suit a costume? And should I ask people from around the world about what they think about me wearing a White Man’s costume? Are you offended? Because I’m incredibly offended that again and again I hear reference to our clothing as costumes. It’s not a costume. It is clothing that you wear every day, day in and out. Indians wear that clothing and it is nothing compared to a uniform of a police officer. The Prime Minister respected culture, our traditions and took part and engaged in the clothing that we value so dearly.
 
 I’m so happy that my son can see a PM today that respects his culture, his tradition and where he comes from”.
 
 In her Facebook post she expressed confidence that what she had to say resonated with her constituency residents and fellow Canadians.
 
 Earlier, speaking to TOI just before Trudeau embarked upon his trip to India, Sahota’s father and noted community leader   had said efforts were on to derail Trudeau’s trip to India and calling for ban on Indian Consulate officials in gurdwaras was a step in that direction.
 
 “This is the new generation of community MPs who are better aware about race and identity issues. While the previous generation would consider themselves outsiders and probably remain quiet, the children born and brought up here feel they are equal and have a sense of pride for their own heritage and culture. I laud Ruby’s comments in the Parliament,” said  , a well-known Punjabi media person based in Toronto.
 
 Dr Balwinder Singh, a popular radio host, said, “While a layperson can be exonerated or given a benefit of doubt over making uncalled for comments on nuances of different communities, we expect better from well-educated Parliamentarians who represent a multi-cultural Canada. The fact that the mainstream media has refused to let the Trudeau’s India trip issue die-down complicates the matter further.”
 
