JALANDHAR: Amid the brouhaha within the party over AAP supremo   tendering apology to former revenue minister   in face of defamation case, the political outfit’s   member Sanjay Singh has said that he “stands by his allegations”. Sanjay, who is also facing two defamation cases filed by Majithia, said there was no question of retracting his statements regarding SAD leader’s involvement in narcotics trade in Punjab. The AAP leader, however, refused to comment on the apology tendered by his party chief Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal.

 Referring to a report submitted by the anti-drug special task force (STF) ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu before the Punjab and Haryana high court, which had been sent by the court to the Punjab government, Sanjay told TOI over phone from Delhi, “I still hold to my allegations against Majithia. In its report, the STF has mentioned the statements given by accused already arrested in the drugs racket case that they transferred money to Majithia’s accounts. Now these accounts should be investigated.”
 
 “I reiterate what I had said about Majithia earlier, and I am not going to retract it,” he said. He didn’t comment when asked why then Kejriwal, in his statement while apologizing to Majithia, had already said the allegations he leveled against the Akali Dal leader were unfounded and he withdrew all his statements. “I leveled allegations in a separate rally,” he said. However, when asked to explain the dichotomy, the former party affair in charge for Punjab refused to say anything.
 
 Meanwhile, his lawyer and AAP leader Himmat Singh Shergill said they would fight the case till the end. “The case at Ludhiana is posted for hearing on April 7, and we will appear there. There is no question of retracting,” he said.
 
 Notably Sanjay is facing two cases — one along with Kejriwal and   at Amritsar and the other at Ludhiana. “We will continue fighting the Amritsar case too,” Shergill added.
 
 In a tweet during the day, Shergill said, “I had left my home seat of Mohali where I had got maximum votes in MP elections and fought against Majithia against all odds on the asking of Kejriwal because Punjab was suffering from drug problem. Today I am feeling very sad and betrayed.”
 
 
