Reveling in the joy of winning the National Award for Best Supporting Actress for ' ', actress  , who’s shooting in Lucknow these days, is in full-on celebration mode. The ' ' and 'Blackmail' actress partied with her colleagues and director on the sets in Lucknow on Wednesday night. Talking to us on one of her days off from shooting, Divya told us what winning this award means to her and how it’s changing things for her gradually. "I'm so happy, it's like I'm floating in air," says Divya about winning the award. She adds, "My film 'Manto' is going to  , 'Blackmail' has garnered rave reviews and now the National Awards! Woh Ghalib ka sher hain na ki 'ik Barahmin ne kaha hai ki yeh saal achha hai', it seems to be true for me as of now."
Telling us about how she had almost missed hearing the news of winning the award herself, Divya says, "I was packing my bags to go to another shoot and was also watching the news and I missed out on the main names. A few minutes later, I started getting phone calls and messages with people congratulating me and I was like ‘arre! Yeh toh bilkul mazaa aa gaya!' After that, I got to know that my film was going to Cannes. All these things happening together are unbelievable. It all feels lovely because I’ll be going to Cannes now. And there’s just this very satisfying and happy feeling."
 With the news still sinking in, Divya says, "As an actor, it’s always everyone’s dream to win a National Award. And I used to wish the same. More so because I’ve hosted quite a few of them and wished ki shayad main bhi kabhi ek receive karun, and it’s happened, finally." She further adds, "I am crazily passionate about what I do, but I think people have become more happy for me because they are like she got what she deserved. I’ve been getting calls and messages from Shabanaji, Naseer ji, and all my directors. I've grown up admiring these people and have wanted to be as good an actor as them. So when they appreciate my work, it’s like wow! For me it means I must have done something good for them to have noticed me."
 
  
  Divya Dutta in Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 
 Ask her how she expects things to change career wise and Divya says, "For years now I’ve been hearing people say things like you haven’t gotten your due, but things started changing for me since last year. I started getting films as main lead. People have repeatedly been asking me this question ki lead role kyun nahi karti. So it's not about the length of a role, but suddenly people started giving me lead roles. It has got nothing to do with this award but yes, it’s now added to it. I am sure now it’s going to be an easier journey for me to choose even better roles. I do believe I am in a good space professionally. For the longest time I hadn’t romanced a hero because I was doing mostly character roles but now, I am also romancing the heroes. I am playing parallel lead. So unofficially, I’m back to being the heroine."
 Shooting for  's film has brought Divya back to Lucknow for her second film here after 'Babumoshai Bandookbaaz'. Saying that the city holds a special place in her heart, Divya says, "Lucknow is a lucky place for me because 'Babumoshai'… got me good reviews and this time I got the news about the National Award while shooting here. Today I got a chhutti and I was thinking kya karoon and suddenly I realised arre I’m in Lucknow! There's so much for me to do here – friends to meet, relax, have fun and good food to eat."
 
  -- Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com 
 
