PUNE: The   ( ) will in the next two weeks float tenders for the Range Hills-Swargate   segment.

 The 5.1km-long segment will travel through  , Budhwar Peth and Mandai before reaching Swargate.
 
 
 There will be a combined tender for tunnelling and construction of the underground stations. Five underground stations have been proposed in the underground segment.
 
 MahaMetro officials have finalized the alignment and locations of the stations in the Range Hills-Swargate section, which is part of the   corridor.
 
 Brijesh Dixit, managing director of MahaMetro, said on Monday that the finalization of the tender document for the underground route was underway, and that tenders are expected to be floated in the next 10 days.
  
 
 “Being an underground route, it is the most challenging of all the four segments. We are holding discussions with the expert committee on various parameters, including cost implications and execution of the work. The work proposal is also to be sent to the funding agencies,” Dixit said.
 
 He further said that Maha-Metro has also taken up a detailed study on the impact of underground Metro on the existing buildings in the Peth areas. “The details are being worked out,” he said.
 
 MahaMetro had divided the work on the two corridors (Pimpri-Swargate and Vanaz-Ramwadi) into four segments. The civil work on the Pimpri-Range Hills and Vanaz-Civil Court segments has already begun, while tenders for the viaduct on Civil Court-Ramwadi section has been called for.
 
 Once it floats the tender for the Range Hills to Swargate section, MahaMetro will have started work on all four segments. The corporation claims it has completed about 20% of the work on the Pimpri-Range Hill segment and 12% on the Vanaz-Civil Court section.
 
 Officials said the tunnelling would be executed using advanced machinery, which will go horizontal. They have proposed two shafts, one each at the agriculture college and Swargate, to enable them to deploy the tunnel boring machines underground.
 
 As most of the work will be done underground, Maha-Metro officials expect minimum disruptions to traffic and buildings on the surface.
 
 
 
 
 To facilitate the work on pillars on the Vanaz-Civil Court section, underway on Paud Road, the traffic police have decided to divert vehicles at night. The diversions will be in place from Tuesday night, and will be in effect from 11pm to 6am. Vehicles will be allowed move as usual in the day.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Ashok Morale took this decision after studying traffic patterns. Vehicles will be allowed move as usual in the day.
 
 Vehicles headed for Vanaz junction from Paud Phata will be diverted to Mayur Colony from Anandnagar chowk. The vehicles will be able to get back on Paud Road again at Krishna Hospital.
 
 Heavy vehicles and buses, driving towards Vanaz junction, will be diverted from Karve Road, from the Paud Phata junction. These vehicles can join Paud Road again at Shashtrinagar chowk, from Shivaji statue.
 
