Thanjavur: The additional district sessions court in Thanjavur on Friday handed out 37 years jail term to the main accused, 30 years to two others and a three-year jail term to the fourth accused in an honour killing of a couple and their child. 

 The punishment, pronounced around 8 pm after a day-long wait, was handed out to R Sivasubramanian, 49, his brother R Ramakrishnan, 47 from Keezha Marudhur near Mannarkudi in Tiruvaur district and others for killing their brother,  , 40, his second wife G Amithavalli, 26 and their 40-day-old male child on December 11, 2014. Two more accused — their friend B Durairaj, 56 and their relative V Mahendran, 29 — were also ordered to undergo imprisonment. 
 
 Sivaramakrishnan got 37 years jail and 30 years each to Ramakrishnan and Durairaj. Mahendran would languish in jail for three years along with a fine of Rs 5000. The marriage of  , an upper caste man, to a dalit woman had provoked his brothers to commit the murders. Palaniappan had already married a woman and had three children from the relationship. Later, he developed an affair with   who was also a resident of Keezhamarudhur. Braving strong opposition from his family, he entered into wedlock with the dalit woman who later gave birth to a male child.
 
 The inter-caste marriage had caused ripples among his siblings who considered the marriage a 'social ignominy' for them and planned to finish off Palaniappan, Amirthavalli and the child. The two, their friend Durairaj and their relative hatched a plan to bring Palaniappan, his wife and child to an isolated place. On the pretext of meeting for a compromise, they asked him to meet them at   village. Believing their words, they came to the place but the four-member gang strangled all the three to death and threw the bodies in three different directions within a 2-kilometre radius.
 
 The death was registered as a case of murder by the Kottur police in Tiruvarur district the same day and investigations revealed it was an honour killing. Hence the police filed a case under section 3(2)(v) of SC/ST prevention of atrocities Act also.
 
 Inspector of police, Kottur, V Anandapadmanaban, said that the judgment ordered to undergo the imprisonment fully.
 
 
