   hope ride the momentum accruing from a sensational comeback against   in their last   match.
 
  Trailing 0-1, the young team scored twice in injury time to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat and, facing a struggling Aizawl, must fancy their chances of picking up three more points and taking their points tally to 17 from 16 matches.
  
  Aizawl with 17 from 13 are in a state of transition with newly-appointed coach Santosh Kashyap replacing Paulo Menezes and hope to buck a depressing trend which has brought no victories in the last six outings and only four points from a possible 18.
  
  Clearly, Arrows — whose core group comprises players from last year’s Fifa U-17 World Cup — are the happier of the two teams going into the encounter and coach Luis Norton de Matos reflected on the spirit his team showed against Churchill Brothers when all seemed lost.
  
  “In  , you cannot plan the result. But I’m very happy with the attitude and the victory because it is the first time in this competition that Indian Arrows have won a game which they were losing. Mentally this shows part of the progress and gives confidence to the players,” the Portuguese said.
  
  De Matos’ opposite number, Kashyap, said, “If you see my record, I like to take challenges and try to do my best with my experience and whatever I learned through my coaching process. It’s a very unpredictable league and any team can beat any other. We will take it one game at a time.”
  
  He also applauded Indian Arrows, his adversaries on Friday.
  
  “As a young squad, Indian Arrows are doing very well, mostly losing matches by a goal. They were excellent in the last match. They play attacking and attractive football and they are moving in the right direction. It’s a very good step by the All India Football Federation (AIFF),” Kashyap said.
  
  Indian Arrows trail Aizawl by just three points. The defending champions are in sixth place on 17 points from 13 matches with their title defence virtually over.
  
  Indian Arrows, playing at their adopted home in Goa, are in the eighth position with 14 points, having played two matches more. Matos will miss the services of Abhijit Sarkar whose goals had helped beat Churchill Brothers. Sarkar along with midfielder Ningthoi will not take the pitch, sidelined by injuries sustained during training.
  
  The basic composition of the team could be unchanged, however, and that will include defender Anwar Ali, the hero against Churchill Brothers, joined by the regular starters.
  
  “We will be more confident because we got three points in the last match. Our team is mentally very strong and we want to take three points tomorrow,” Arrows right-back Ashish Rai enthused.
  
  Meanwhile, Kashyap seems to be jelling well with the team and is happy with how his players are responding to him in training. Forward Yobo Kobayashi and defender Kareem Nurain are not available for selection but Kashyap endeavours to field his strongest eleven.
  
  De Matos, though, respects the opposition even as he sizes up his boys as worthy opponents. “Aizawl are the defending champions and they will be favourites against us, like all other teams. But we will fight for a result as always,” Matos asserted.
