NEW DELHI:   and JD(S) are likely to announce a power-sharing deal for their coalition government in   on Friday, with unambiguous reiteration that H D   will be chief minister for the full term and the two parties will contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls together.

 
 Contrary to speculation, the protracted negotiations were focussed not just on ministerial portfolios to be apportioned between the two partners but also on other dimensions — setting up a coordination committee, common minimum programme and stability of the government, as reported by TOI in an interview with Congress general secretary Ashok Gehlot on Thursday.
 
 Among key portfolios, 

 
   finance will go to JD(S) 
 
 while the home department will be run by Congress.
 
 JD(S) secretary general Danish Ali told TOI, “The announcement will be a written agreement resolving all issues to run a stable coalition for five years. That is why it has taken so long. We wanted everything to be on paper so that the government could run smoothly for its full term under the chief ministership of H D Kumaraswamy.”
 
 
  
  
 
 On Thursday, Congress general secretary   and JD(S)'s Ali flew to Bengaluru for final talks with local leaders after five rounds of negotiations in the national capital. On Wednesday night, Congress president Rahul Gandhi joined the negotiators through a conference call to settle matters. 
 
 Venugopal also held discussions with Kumaraswamy. The CM, before going to the meeting, said details of portfolio allocation may be announced on Friday. The CM also rubbished reports about discontent between JD(S) and Congress over portfolio allocation. 
 
 The power-sharing announcement will clearly spell out that the two parties will contest the 2019 Lok Sabha polls together and that a coordination committee will be set up which will meet regularly to ensure effective management of the partnership. It will also state that a common minimum programme will be drawn up, largely by distilling the manifestos of the two parties which contested elections separately. 
 
