KOLKATA: The   (KMC) on Monday served notices to the owners of several   of the city in an effort to pave the way for the final stretch of the East-West   tunnel between Esplanade and Sealdah. 

 The structures include the Metropolitan Building, which housed the   department store in the early 20th century; Elite Cinema, once owned by 20th Century Fox; famous photographic studio Bourne & Shepherd; and former chief minister Bidhan Chandra Roy’s home, apart from 22 other buildings along the stretch.
 
 Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the executing agency for the Metro line from   V to Howrah Maidan across the  , had approached KMC after its officials were denied entry to these buildings to carry out structural assessment. The buildings — several of which are Grade I heritage structures — need to be assessed before the tunnel can be bored underneath. This, incidentally, is the most crucial stretch along the Metro route as the tunnel-boring machines have to negotiate the highest number of old and unsafe buildings, some of which on the verge of collapse.
 
 “Surveying the buildings is key to devising a reinforcement plan to ensure their protection when the tunnel is constructed,” said a KMRC official. 
 
 With the boring machine set to commence its journey a month from now, it is imperative that we systematically assess each of the 26 buildings that have so far been identified as vulnerable, and take steps to ensure their safety,” said a KMRC official. 
 
 The two boring machines — one digging the Howrah-bound tunnel and the other the Salt Lake-bound one — will move along S N Banerjee Road, Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road, Nirmal Chandra Street and BB Ganguly Street. This stretch has the maximum number of Grade I heritage buildings and several unlisted crumbling mansions.
 
 Monday’s notice is the second step after a building condition survey, done through visual inspection. KMRC engineers have to now carry out detailed high-quality digital photographic documentation showing distress (major wear and tear) of the buildings. The process includes inspections and detailed documentation on a lot of parameters, said a KMRC official.
 
 Before the notice was issued, a number of meetings were held between engineers of KMC, KMRC and ITD-ITD Cementation, the construction agency of the tunnel. The meetings formulated a blueprint of the building-strengthening programme that will be carried out before, during and after the boring machine passes each unsafe building. “Once the detailed survey is over, we will undertake pre-emptive measures, such as repairing cracks, before the start of tunnelling under the building, widening the foundation of affected portions and carrying out temporary and short-term evacuation, if evacuation is necessary. Support structures will be erected in buildings within a 25-metre radius of either side of the tunnel,” said a KMRC engineer.
 
 According to KMRC officials, the boring machine will move at optimal speed below critical areas to reduce ground-volume loss. Under no circumstance can the machine be stopped while below the critical buildings, said an engineer.
 
 The tunnelling for the   line faces technological challenges because it passes through extremely congested areas of the city. However, the biggest issue is the soft clay, posing technical concerns. Proper control of ground settlement and management of distress in buildings is required, said a source.
 
 
