Amid all the debates around the   slowly getting extinct, actor-singer   is sure that the language is here to stay. In an exclusive interview with TimesOfIndia.com, Ammy Virk opened up about a lot of things ranging from the Punjabi language to cinema to music.

 The actor, who will be seen in and as ‘Harjeeta’, feels that it’s not possible for the language to go extinct. Ammy said that wherever he goes for promotions, he prefers to speak in Punjabi and switches only when there is a language barrier. He also added that Punjabi songs are nailing the charts, almost every Hindi movie has a Punjabi track, and this doesn’t support the speculations at all. In his mother tongue, the actor said, “Punjabi kidda band ho jau.”
 
 At the same time, when asked about his take on class 10 students of Punjab flunking in the language, the actor expressed his disappointment. He feels that parents should take the charge and educate their kids. “The way we are brought up, it matters a lot. Kids grasp what you teach them, from crawling to walking, for everything they look up to their parents. So, if parents would not pay attention and teach the little ones about the importance of the language, then certainly will have consequences in the future.”
 
 
 
 The star of ‘Qismat’ fame has a very simple opinion when it comes to Punjabi songs being vulgar and objectifying women. He says that every type of song is made, but the kind of song you hear is up to you. If the audience does not respond to songs that don’t stand clear on moral or ethic grounds, then such songs would not be made.
 
 
 
 There’s a common assumption that Punjabi cinema is made just for the NRI audience, but Ammy begs to differ. The actor said, “As far as revenue generation is considered, then taking the economy in mind, the income generated from other countries do help in compensating the overall expense of the movie. However, we don’t make a movie just for the NRI audience. Also, the times have changed, the Punjabi cinema is growing. Movies and songs are being made in such a manner that even a non-Punjabi can relate to them. Also, Punjabi songs are making their way into Hindi cinema, which again is letting to the widespread of the language.”
 
