Even as the day temperatures in the city have soared as high as 36 to 39 degrees Celsius, the nights have become cooler over the years, observed the scientists. There has been an average reduction of 0.5degree Celsius in the night temperatures in the last four years alone, said S Panneerselvam, professor and head of the   at   agricultural university (TNAU).

 Experts said this could be due to the increased relative humidity at nights as winds travel from low pressure areas to the high pressure zones. The increase in the velocity of the wind is also a reason. The night time temperatures have come done by 0.5 degree Celsius in the past four years and the trend is set to continue this year also.
 
 Experts said that in 2011, Coimbatore experienced the coldest night at 11.5 degree Celsius and after that it was in 2016 when it recorded 13.4 degree. On February 8, this year, city recorded a temperature of 13.5 degree Celsius, almost one degree Celsius colder than the temperature in 2015.
 
 “This trend of nights becoming cooler is a common phenomenon during summer due to relative humidity. But the average temperature has also come down. One reason for this is, in December and January, the temperatures were very low. Fog and mist formation were also observed in January this year,” said Panneerselvam. He said that until last week, the average temperature recorded at night was 19-20 degree Celsius. But last year, the average night temperature was 20-22 degree Celsius.
 
 S B Thampi, head of  , said that zero clouding was one of the reasons for this. “The lesser temperatures at nights in the city could be due to zero clouding. Generally clouds moderate temperatures during the day and at night. Absence of the clouds causes the radiation to escape faster at night and helps cool down temperature,” said Thampi. He added that winds also played a role in the temperature variation.
 
 The temperature during the day, Panneerselvam, said will continue to increase by 0.5 degree to one degree Celsius than previous years. “From 37.5 degree in 2015, the highest recorded temperature in 2017 was 39 degree. This will continue to be the same this year as well,” he said.
 
 
