CHANDIGARH: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday contested Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s claims of providing jobs to 1.6 lakh youths in one year. He said that the government was now taking credit even for campus placements.

 He was addressing a rally at   in  , along with senior SAD leader MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa. The SAD president said he would nail this lie in the forthcoming assembly session by asking the government to supply the complete list of youth, along with their addresses and emoluments they were drawing.
 
 Sukhbir said, “Several youths have disclosed that they had never applied for jobs under the ‘ghar-ghar rozgar’ scheme and that they had been selected for jobs under college placement programmes. They disclosed that they had been called to receive their appointment letters on Sunday despite the fact that they were already working in private companies for quite some time.”
 
 The SAD president said the government is asking 15,000 teachers to agree to a reduction in their salaries instead of regularizing them on government scales. The SAD-BJP government had recruited 2.50 lakh employees during its tenure, including 40,000 police personnel, the former deputy CM said. “The government has stopped the ‘CM Teerath Yatra’ scheme. It has stopped disbursing medical insurance to farmers. Even scholarship is not being given to scheduled caste children,” he added.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Dhindsa asked the Congress government to request the Supreme Court to depute a judge to investigate all cases of sacrilege during SAD-BJP tenure, as well as, the Congress rule. He said the SAD did not recognize the Justice Ranjit Singh commission because it was a “pro-Congress commission”.
 
 Senior leader   said the Congress government had given only one job in the last one year and that was to former CM Beant Singh’s grandson who has been appointed as DSP despite being overage and lacking the requisite academic qualifications. Former minister   rued the fact that all development work in Lehragaga had been stopped by the Congress government.
 
 
