PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Heavy charges for night parking, creation of four parking zones and fines for parking violation are some of the features of the draft parking policy prepared by the engineering department of   ( ).

 Speaking to TOI, Vilas Madigeri, standing committee member, PCMC, said that the committee approved a short notice resolution about the draft parking policy at the meeting presided over by chairperson Mamata Gaikwad.
 
 Vijay Bhojane, spokesperson, BRTS cell, PCMC, said, “The aim of the parking policy is not to create an income source but to act as a disciplinary measure and provide paid parking facility to prevent haphazard parking. The standing committee has approved the draft policy and sent it for approval to the civic general body (GB) for final approval. We will conduct a joint survey of the city with the traffic police after GB approval for creating four types of parking zones. The rates for these zones will be decided as per the GB approved policy and made applicable in the city for an initial period of one year.”
 
 “The GB will delegate powers to each of eight zones to appoint one contractor for collection of parking charges in each parking area. A parking app will also be created for public benefit,” he added. The GB has already given approval for charging fines from parking violators. The amount collected through these fines will be equally shared between traffic police and PCMC.”
 
 “There will be heavy charges for parking of vehicles in the night from 11 pm and 9 am,” said Bhojane.
 
 The city will be classified into four zones, Zone A will be high demand parking area having need for 80 to 90 per cent parking; Zone B will be medium demand parking area having need for 60 to 80 per cent parking; Zone C will be low demand parking area having need for 40 to 60 per cent parking and Zone D will have less than 40 per cent parking need, with no parking charges. 
 
 Cycles, ambulances, vehicles of differently-abled people and recognised rickshaw stands will be exempted from paying parking charges.
 
 
