PATNA:   will pitch for increase in budget allocation of centrally-sponsored schemes, uniform power purchase tariff for all states and commencement of financial year from January 1 among several other provisions for being included in the upcoming Union budget for the fiscal 2018-19.

 Deputy CM and finance minister Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) will put forth such demands in a pre-budget meeting of state finance ministers convened by Union finance minister   at Delhi on Thursday.
 
 “Uniform power purchase tariff for all states or ‘one nation-one tariff’ will be highly beneficial for states like Bihar. We have to pay more for purchasing power from power generation companies like  , leading to extra financial burden in providing smooth electric supply to people in the state,” SuMo told TOI over phone from Delhi.
 
 Sources said different states buy electricity from power generation companies like   (NTPC) on different rates based on negotiation. The tariff rates for power generated at central plants — NTPC and National Hydroelectric Power Corporation (NHPC) — primarily depend on two factors — the cost at which the plant was set up and the types of coal, imported or indigenous, being used by the plant.
 
 “The central power generating units enter into power purchase agreement (PPA) right from the time of commencement of works on installing the power plant in order to recover the running cost even during the gestation period. It has been seen that the rate at which Bihar enters into a   with central plants are comparatively higher. Accordingly, the state government has been demanding uniform tariff,” a senior energy department official said.
 
 Chief minister  , on August 13 last year, had also pitched for uniform tariff rates across the country on the lines of railway fares. “Our energy minister and officials have raised with the Centre the issue of higher tariff rate of electricity which Bihar gets from NTPC as its quota … NTPC should fix a uniform tariff rate of electricity for the entire country. We demand a uniform rate of electricity for the country on the lines of railway fare which is uniform across the country,” Nitish had said in an official function at Patna.
 
 Deliberating on the demand of increase in budget allocation for centrally-sponsored schemes, SuMo said: “Increase in budget allocations for centrally sponsored schemes like MNREGA will lead to flow of more funds from the Centre to the states. This will be much beneficial to the states like Bihar, which require more financial assistance from the Centre.”
 
 The deputy CM added that Union budget has already been preponed from February 1 from 2017 and the financial year should now start from January 1.
 
 
