COIMBATORE: The public works department has sought Rs 207 crore to develop   and water bodies around it, a move that will give an infrastructural boost to the entire river system.

 The   is sought under the   that was announced five years ago for which the central government had sanctioned more than Rs 11,000cr. 
 
 “Noyyal river is a tributary of Cauvery and joins the river at Karur after passing through Coimbatore, Tirupur and Erode. Since it flowed only for 10 days a year and was on the brink of extinction, we decided to take up its rejuvenation under this project,” said a senior   engineer.
 
 The department had sent a detailed proposal to the central water commission with the demand. “The state government and the central water commission have sought some changes and corrections in it. Once that is finalised, we will start work on the detailed project report by undertaking surveys and studies,” said an official.
 
 The funds will be used to set up concrete walls on the sides of the supply channels for a distance of 158km from the river’s starting point till it joins   at Karur. All the tanks in the course of the river will be strengthened and revived. “We will clean them, de-silt them and strengthen their bunds. Parks will be set up and the water bodies will be renovated,” said an official.
 
 Officials said that totally, 20 anicuts will be renovated and 28 tanks will be rejuvenated. “We have undertaken surveys and visited the sites to find out what the problems are and what infrastructural solutions can be implemented to revive the river and its channels,” said an engineer.
 
 The city corporation had already taken up eight water bodies under the smart city project with plans to revive them.
 
 “The Cauvery modernisation scheme was announced five years ago. Noyyal River is also a tributary of Cauvery. So, we decided to add it and send a proposal. It will take one more year for the detailed project report to be completed. A special project wing has been created for this purpose, that is undertaking studies,” an official added.
 
 
