INDORE: Number of   and cases registered under   has increased drastically in the past one year.   in the past few months tells the tale of the thriving trade of guns manufactured by members of Sikligar community - a small caste of armourers and knife grinders settled in Malwa region of the state.

 Read any crime report and you will notice how most of those people involved in crimes in city use country-made weapons, known in local parlance, ‘desi katta’. There are agents active in the city who will get you any kind of gun you want — .32 bore country-made pistols (the  ) to double barrel guns — anything you fancy, for hard cash. 
 
 Crime branch officials said that the number of cases registered under Arms Act have increased drastically in the last year. 
 
 Senior officials said that the most of the weapons are brought into the market via brokers and agents and even if one of them is caught, cops are able to reach the others. The problem faced in getting a gun licence issued has also paved way for black market of weapons produced by   to thrive in city. 
 
 “Mostly people arrested with arms claimed that they had bought it for extortion and to show off in the group,” said ASP crime branch Amrendra Singh. 
 
 Last year, the city police had recovered more than 100 such illegal weapons, most of them used by people arrested in crimes like robbery, chain/purse snatching and carjackers.
 
 According to police source, ‘desi katta’ is available in the city in the price range between Rs 2,500 and Rs 5,000. “Criminals use country-made pistols, usually with .32 cartridges and most of them were recovered during arrests,” a senior police officer said.
 
 On an average, five to seven criminals are arrested with illegal weapons every month. Most of these illegal firearms are brought from nearby regions in Barwani, Dhar, Khargone and Khandwa. Easy availability and affordable price have pushed the demand of these weapons in a region where property disputes are very common.
 
 Of the 1,315 cases registered under Arms Act in 2017, according to the police record, around 220 firearms and cartridges were recovered, all of which were illegal. 
 
 A senior police officer admitted though they are arrested time to time, arm suppliers are still active in the city.
 
 “We regularly check on type of elements involved in illegal arms crime,” said a senior police officer.
 
 Migrant population coming from different areas is into this illegal arm trade for livelihood and for easy money. Mostly, goons in different areas like to keep the weapons to show off in their group.
 
 
