COIMBATORE: When M  , 41, approached the private school where his daughter was studying in Class III for transfer certificate (TC) this month, the school management demanded Rs 29,500 (the first term fees for the coming academic year) for issuing the same. He subsequently approached education officials, but in vain. Finally, Kumar petitioned the district collector, T N  , on Wednesday, seeking relief.

 Kumar said the school,   at  , had given eight days’ time from January 2 for applying for TC. Pointing out that no school had opened admissions by then, he said, “If I had applied for TC and had to admit my daughter back to the same school, I would have to pay Rs 75,000 as capitation. So, I was confused.”
 
 Kumar, in his compliant, said he had orally conveyed the school management that he would be getting the TC only after securing an admission for her in another school. And when he applied for the TC on March 19, the school asked him to remit Rs 29,500, for issuing the same.
 
 Kumar then forwarded a complaint to Coimbatore chief educational officer. “But the school did not give a proper response to the chief educational officer as well. Hence, i submitted the petition to the collector’s personal assistant. He said he will forward the petition to the collector,” Kumar said.
 
 The school management, however, said Kumar applied for the TC only on March 23 and within three working days he had approached the collector. “Within that time, the former principal was relieved of the duty and a new principal took charge. It will take at least a couple of days for the new principal to act on the TC application,” said a school spokesperson.
 
 “As the issue has been blown up in such a short time, we suspect the parent to have an ulterior motive to tarnish our school’s image. Our suspicions gain weight as the parent is the office-bearer of another private school,” the spokesperson added.
 
 Kumar, meanwhile, confirmed that he was the partner and vice-chairman of another private school in the city, but denied having any ulterior motives.
 
 
