UDUPI: Former deputy superintendent of police   on Friday officially declared that she will contest from   constituency in the ensuing polls as a candidate from the Bharatiya Janashakti Congress—a new political party launched by her.

 “The party was registered on February 18 under the Election Commission, and they have temporarily approved our party’s symbol which is the ladies finger. I want good people to contest elections from my party in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada, Chikkamagaluru and   districts. I want committed people without criminal records. Proficiency in Kannada is a must for my party,” Anupama said.
 
 When asked why she chose the Kaup constituency, she said, “Kaup is my place and people know me well here. I’m unhappy with Kaup MLA Vinay Kumar Sorake. When he was a state minister, he did not protest against  , who was allegedly involved in DSP Ganapathi’s death,’’ she said.
 
 Regarding the development of Kaup, she claimed Kaup has not seen any development happening from the past three years under Sorake, when he was a minister. “He started to work after he lost his post. From the past one year, the work on roads and bridges is happening very fast. It is a political strategy to gain voters now.”
 
 She attacked Dubai-based NRI   and alleged that he acquired land and took up the running of a hospital under the PPP model, so that he can benefit, and not the common people. She alleged there are many irregularities in the deal, and further raised the issue of chief minister Siddaramaiah’s Hublot watch, which was allegedly received as a quid pro quo from Shetty.
 
 She demanded that the Modi government should conduct a CBI inquiry into the above cases. “I have sent a letter with 34 documents to prove the above allegations. However I have got no reply. I think the central government is also quiet in the cases because BJP CM candidate Yedyyurappa has also got benefits from B R Shetty in the past. His son Raghavendra is also said to be involved in property dealing with B R Shetty. All these factors must have made even the central government quiet on the issue.”
 
 
