Last one year has been a roller coaster ride for actress  . The young actress, who is originally from Burdwan, made her debut with TV serial ‘Kajallata’.

 “I have always wanted to be an actor. Last one year has made my dream come true.” In a candid chat, the actress shared her experience of facing the camera as a newcomer, being replaced from the lead role, and her struggle thereafter.
 
 Annwesha knew that making a career in this industry will not be easy. “I know that I am not extremely good looking and there are many beautiful girls. But I have that hunger inside me. I want to do lead roles. I am too stubborn to give up on my dreams,” shared the confident actress.
 
 Annwesha’s father is a businessman and owns a film theatre in her home town. Watching films on big screen made her fall in love with acting. The actress, who has done her graduation in Psychology, said, “I used to get excited as soon as I enter the theatre and look at the giant screen. To me it was a magical world.” With that dream Annwesha enrolled herself for an acting course in Kolkata.
 
 Things started working in favour of the actress when the makers of ‘Kajallata’ got her photo through one of her friends. She was asked to appear for an audition. Annwesha couldn’t believe herself when she was informed about bagging the lead role of Kajal. The story of the serial revolved around two characters –Kajal and Lata.
 
 She said, “The experience of facing the camera for the first time was surreal. I used to stay at the shooting floors even after my part was over just to observe others. I wanted to learn how the senior actors face camera and their way of delivering dialogues.”
 
 But it wasn't a smooth journey for Annwesha. Just after a few months she was replaced from the serial. According to the industry sources the makers decided to introduce new storyline with twist. The actress became upset. “I was a tough period for me. I didn’t even know the actual reason behind the decision. I started blaming myself. My struggling period actually started from that point,” she said. The actress shared that her parents were very much supportive during that period.
 
 Annwesha decided to go for auditions again as she was determined to make a comeback in front of the camera. Finally she was selected for a pivotal role in ‘Briddhashram’, where she got the opportunity of working with veteran actress  . Presently she is playing the character   in the serial.
 
 “I was relieved to be back on the shooting floor and facing the camera. I knew I have to prove myself again. Moreover, working with a veteran actress like Lily di is a lifetime opportunity,” said the actress before signing off. 
 
