KOLKATA: The Garia 6 government bus depot, which allowed   to be parked on the premises, led to drastic decongestion of Garia and its adjoining areas. And now, the state wants to replicate the model across the city.

 Buses are the biggest passenger-carrier in the city. At the same time, private buses, almost 80% of which park on the busy carriageways, eat away a large part of the space. “The benefit the city gets from buses as mass transport gets substantially nullified by the occupied road space,” explained a senior transport department officer.
 
  
 The government is thus planning to modify some its archaic regulations, according to which accessing these depots amounts to trespassing, which is punishable. “The depots and terminus belonging to state transport undertakings (STUs)are sprawling yet highly under-utilized. With private buses being the main stay of the city’s masstransit, it makes no sense to deny them the parking space on the premises,” said a WBTC officer.
 
 “Nowadays, the categorization of government and private buses is only relevant for operators. From the users’ point of view, a bus is just a carrier that takes them to their destinations efficiently. This is why we are now bringing private buses on to the real-time tracking platform ‘Pathadisha’. The route rationalisation we are carrying out includes both STU buses and private ones. This rationalization aims at an even distribution of buses based on real-time demand,” explained a senior transport department officer.
 
 “If both private and STU buses of similar alignment start from the same depot, the services will be evenly gapped and more reliable for passengers. Such systematic distribution of buses will improve viability of the trade by eliminating unnecessary competition, which leads to racing and accidents,” he added.
 
 “We have been requesting the government to allow us to use STU depots to park our vehicles. We are also ready to remit a reasonable parking fee to WBTC for offering us this facility. Kolkata has the least road space (6%) compared to that of other cities. The road space we would vacate will ease the movement of traffic and there will be coordination among buses plying along similar routes,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay of Joint Council of Bus Syndicates.
 
 
