LUCKNOW: On Earth Day in the year 2011, a group of   students embarked on a journey to restore the lost greenery on campus and bring back the peacocks who used to visit earlier.

 Making seed bombs and compost, and using even drain water for irrigation, the law and tourism students of succeeded in turning LU’s second campus green once again. On Sunday, the students celebrated Earth Day once again by planting saplings and took a pledge to carry the green initiative forward.
 
 
 “In 2010, campus was covered with greenery and was home to peacocks. However, a stretch became barren after a fire and construction activity in 2011. All hostellers began missing the  , the peacocks and decided to pick up gardening tools on Earth day that year,” said Vimlesh Nigam.
 
 He said the most inspiring thing was that even when we passed out, the green battle was taken ahead by our juniors. Then they passed it on to their juniors and the initiative thus has been carried forward till date.
 
 “There was no irrigation facility on the campus and it was tough to carry water because of the distance, so we decided to use a water from a nearby drain. We brought a bucket and used the drain water for irrigation. Watching our efforts, many morning walkers also extended started taking care of the plants. Later a temporary connecting drainage system was made by students to water plants on regular basis,” said tourism student  . Presently, there are 35 students who have adopted trees on the campus, he added. On World Plantation Day, Sparrow Day, Environment and Earth Day, all former and present students reunite to inspect there ‘green property’.
 
 Recalling their hardships, students said that first they tried planting saplings but they were eaten up by animals. Then one group was given responsibility to take a round and water plants before going to class, while the other was told to make a wire fencing for keeping animals away. As the number of students was limited and a big area had to be covered, seed bombs — balls of clay with a variety of seeds within — were also used.
 
 “We bombarded the stretch with seed balls and worked on the area where there was a need,” said former student Vivek Yadav.
 
 Taking care of the green zone revived by seniors has become a part of the academic life for second campus students,” said  , a present student.
 
