  : In a move aimed at preventing ‘desertification’ of Punjab by saving more than 24 lakh million litres (ML) of water, the state government has issued a notification to delay   transplantation by another five days till June 20. The five-day delay will help save enough water to meet all requirements of the state (including domestic and industrial) for a certain period, said the officials.

 
  
 The notification has been issued by additional chief secretary (development) Viswajeet Khanna under the Punjab Preservation of Sub-Soil Water Act, 2009, which has fixed May 20 for sowing paddy nursery and June 20 for transplantation of the crop in the fields each year. It is the third time when the government has issued a notification making paddy transplantation before the prescribed date illegal. Earlier, the government had notified paddy transplantation dates in 2008 and 2014, when these were fixed for June 10 and June 15, respectively.
 
 The move comes in the wake of a proposal mooted by the   (PPCB) and the PAU, Ludhiana, which had in January written to the state government to delay paddy sowing and transplantation by 10 days.
 
 Responding to the suggestion, the government decided to delay it by five days. As per some latest studies, groundwater in Punjab is receding at the rate of 70 cm every year. In its report, the PPCB had stated that as many as 108 blocks in the state had fallen in the “dark zone,” where water table had fallen drastically due to excessive extraction of groundwater.
 
 The five-day delay in the paddy transplantation would reduce the time between wheat harvest and its sowing to around 10 days. The PPCB chairman, K S Pannu, said that it would prompt farmers to take up latest technologies in a big way. He said happy seeders would help farmers sow wheat without having to worry about clearing paddy stubble. “This will bring down the instances of stubble burning and also ensure better productivity,” he said. Khanna said that the decision had been taken on the recommendation of the PAU and the PPCB. He said over the last five years the PAU had developed short-sowing varieties of paddy, which takes 20 days less to mature.
 
 Pannu said that they had proposed that the paddy transplantation dates should be aligned with the onset of monsoon as the fast receding sub-surface water could throw up a huge environmental challenge for the state. He further said that the state was already struggling against a slow rate at which the groundwater was getting recharged. Vice-chancellor of PAU B S Dhillon said that the late-sown paddy varieties developed by the university would ensure that there was no adverse effect on rice production as these would take 20 days less to mature.
 
 
