PUNE: After the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games organisers reduced the number of quota for shooters and their Birmingham counterparts showing uncertainty over the sport’s inclusion in the 2022 edition, Indian shooting got another blow as Jakarta   organisers have decided to trim shooting events from their schedule.

 
 The Asian Games organisers have removed all team events from their schedule along with dropping traditional Asiad events like rifle 50m prone (men and women), 50m pistol, 25m centre fire pistol and 25m standard pistol.
 
 Although all the dropped events are non-Olympic events, their exclusion has hit India hard. Indian shooters have won medals in these events, especially the team events. The Asiad organisers, however, have included double trap, which was removed from the Olympics cycle recently.
 
 The Asiad has included rifle 300m 3 position, which is big bore event and is generally practised by Army’s Marksmen Unit shooters.
 
 India had won one gold, one silver and seven bronze medals in the last edition of the Asiad. Out of these nine medals, seven were won from the event that are now being dropped.
 
 Calling the decision non-transparent and unfair, the   (NRAI) president Raninder Singh said it will hit the majority of countries hard.
 
 “There is no logic to this decision. It isn’t just bad for us, but also bad for many countries. We had information of them dropping the double trap event. We spoke to people in the Asian Shooting Confederation and the event was restored, but we had no clue of them dropping so many events, without consulting any other country or the Olympic Council of Asia,” said Raninder.
 
 He discarded any possibility of a conspiracy and said, “They may have included the 300m event and the running target event because Indonesia has a strong military base and they have the infrastructure ready.”
 
 When asked if it is wrong for a host country to pick and drop events according to their advantages, he said, “Of course it is unfair. You can’t drop traditional events without any discussion. It is unprofessional.”
 
 At the same time, Raninder said NRAI have no authority to interfere in such decisions and the Sports Ministry and   (IOA) should take up such issues.
 
 The Asian Games will start in Indonesia on August 18.
 
 The dropped events: Men (15): 25m centre fire pistol (individual and team); 25m rapid fire (team); 25m standard pistol (individual and team); 50m pistol (individual and team); 10m air pistol (team); 10m air rifle (team); 50m prone (individual and team); 50m 3P (team); trap (team); double trap (team) and skeet (team).
 
 Women (9): 25m pistol (team); 10m air pistol (team); 10m air rifle (team); 50m prone (individual and team); 50m 3P (team); trap (team); double trap (team) and skeet (team).
 
 
