BHOPAL: From the first   in 1952 till date,   has never sent a member from the   to the Upper House from Madhya Pradesh. 

 This is what former bureaucrat and former chairman of MP OBC Commission, Sardar Singh Dungas claimed. He is presently the chairman of Pichda Varg Kalyan Parishad.
 
 “More than 54% voters in MP are OBC. While   has been appointing successive chief ministers from the community, the Congress hasn’t as of now sent a member to Rajya Sabha,” he pointed. Dungas, a retired bureaucrat and well-known face during the ten years of Digvijaya Singh rule demanded that an OBC be sent by the Congress party to the Upper House this week. 
 
 Rajya Sabha nominations are scheduled to be filed by March 12 and the BJP will send four members to the Upper House, Congress has only one seat.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dungas said he has approached AICC general secretary in charge of MP affairs   and told him that the Congress needs to field an OBC candidate for the   if it is serious about winning assembly elections in the state. 
 
  The OBCs have the largest vote-bank and no political party can think of coming to power without the community’s support,” he said. State Congress spokesman Ravi Saxena confirmed that Congress has missed-out on sending an OBC to the Upper House from the state. 
 
 “The BJP works out these equations carefully. Since the state has more than half the voters from the OBC, the BJP has given chief ministers only from that community starting with Uma Bharti, succeeded by Babulal Gaur and  ,” Saxena said. 
 
 But who is the likely OBC face for Rajya Sabha? Saxena said that the most prominent OBC face in the state at this point of time is Arun Yadav.
 
 “He is the sitting state unit president, former Union minister of state and part of the AICC president Rahul Gandhi team of youngsters,” Saxena said.
 
 Former chairman of MP OBC Commission, Sardar Singh Dungas said that if Congress is serious about winning the assembly polls in MP, it needs to filed an OBC candidate for the Rajya Sabha
 
 
