JAIPUR:The state education department has suspended all action against schools accused of flouting Rajasthan Schools (Fee regulation) Act.

 
 The move came after the Jodhpur bench of the   restrained the state from taking any action against schools until the proceedings in the case challenging the Act by some private schools have been completed. The circular issued on May 9 says that no action shall be taken against schools.
 
 “The honourable high court, Jodhpur in its interim order has directed the office (department) to not act against schools in cases related to Rajasthan Schools (Regulation of Fee) until cases (related to the fees act) pending in court are disposed off,” said a circular issued by the education department on May 9. Sources said that almost a dozen cases challenging the legality of the fee Act were pending before the court.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Around 20 schools in Rajsamand and Jodhpur have filed a petition against the Act. The schools contended that they were autonomous bodies and the government can only guide them in fixing the fees.
 
 “Our case is very strong. The Act is a violation of our rights guaranteed by the Constitution. It will not stand in the court,” said one petitioner.
 
 The education department had served notices to over 7,000 schools over unjust fee hikes. The circular has come as a relief for schools but has left parents and the government jittery. Parents were hoping to get relief from fee hikes of up to 30% made by schools. Government officials are still studying the order which is not clear on whether the schools can charge the hiked fees from students. “Our legal team is examining the implications of the interim order,” said a government officer requesting anonymity.
 
 The state government, which had earlier cancelled the no-objection certificate (NOC) of BVB Vidhyashram school over the   issue, is in a dilemma on whether to restore the NOC or to maintain status quo.
 
 Damodar Goyal, president, Society for Unaided Schools in Rajasthan, said, “As per the Supreme Court order, fee fixation is the prerogative of schools. The Act which calls for the involvement of parents in fixing fees violates the autonomy of schools.”
 
 
