AHMEDABAD: New information that has emerged during investigation of alleged ISIS operatives, Kasim Stimberwala and Ubaid Mirza of Surat, indicate that the duo played a key role in radicalising and recruiting Indian Muslim youths for ISIS, say cops.   ATS sources said that statements of witnesses and other evidence revealed during the progressing probe show the duo used to target and convince young Muslim boys on a social media platform and then add them to messaging group.

  “Once they were sure of the loyalty of the target youth, they used to put him or her in contact with Safi Armar alias Zahed-al-Hindi,” said an ATS official, adding, “Both Stimberwala and Mirza used to lure young Muslim boys from Gujarat and other states and facilitate their move to  .”
 
 A senior ATS official said, “Besides planning a lone wolf attack on a synagogue in Khamasa area of the city, they were main recruiters of ISIS in the country. 
 
  They were in direct contact with Shafi Armar and Altaf Armar from Bhatkal in Karnataka, who were based in   until reported killed by   forces.”
 
 He added, “Once targeted youths showed willingness to fight for ISIS, Stimberwala first sent them to Shazia and Atiq alias Aashiq in   who first used to facilitate their stay in West Bengal and then move the youths to Bangladesh. From Bangladesh, the ISIS recruits would fly to Afghanistan or Pakistan.”
 
 
 
 
 Shazia is based in Kolkata and came into contact with Stimberwala on social media. According to ATS Stimberwala had feelings for Shazia and had tried to convince her to flee with him to Syria and together fight for ISIS. “However, Shazia though highly radicalised was not ready to leave her children behind and decided against leaving India,” said an ATS official.
 
 
 
 
 ATS sources said four to five youths from another state who had been convinced to fight for ISIS by Stimberwala and Mirza were now back from that path. “Before they could leave the country the were tracked down and put under de-radicalisation programme. Now the youths are doing good jobs. Some youths from Surat were also de-radicalised in the programme,” said a senior ATS official. It is worthy to note that at the All-India DG Conference in Dhordo, PM   had stressed on de-radicalization as a tool to combat terrorism.
 
 
