AHMEDABAD: In a novel experiment, a group of farmers at the Lala Sanctuary in   have decided not to use inorganic fertilizers and toxic pesticides so as to save the   ( ) which is critically endangered in the state with IUCN pegging their numbers at alarming 20.

 The farmers joined hands with an NGO,  , and grew green lentils (moong) using organic methods. The move paid off as it not only helped in conservation of GIB but also brought more money to the farmers.
 
 According to experts, when farmers use pesticides, GIB loses a major portion of its food — insects, locust, lizard among others — and the bird is forced to look for smaller insects in the grains, resulting in damage to the crops.
 
 The experiment to adopt organic farming was so encouraging that the foundation and the farmers have decided to apply for an organic certification with the brand name, Ghorad. The GIB is locally known as Ghorad.
 
 “Initially, I was a bit reluctant when the Corbett Foundation suggested me to go for organic farming. But, when I saw a group of rosy startlet in an adjacent field feeding on insects, I realized its importance. The foundation also assured to compensate me for any possible loss,” said Yakub Jatt, a resident of Kunathiya village in Abdasa taluka.
 
 Devesh Gadhvi, deputy director of   and a member of the  , said, “We realized that 70% of the food for the GIB during the breeding season were the insects in the agriculture fields and the pesticides were killing them. We then persuaded the farmers not to use pesticides and an experiment was undertaken in a small area. The results were very encouraging. The farmers were able to produce around 700kg of moong.”
 
 With some publicity on social media, the 700kg of moong was sold off in two days and the farmers who were getting around Rs 45 per kg in the open market were able to garner Rs 70 per kg. “We still have orders for another 6,000kg. Encouraged by the results, several other farmers join us. This time, we expect around 50-odd farmers to join the initiative,” said Gadhvi.
 
 According to Gadhvi, 20 other threatened species of birds are found in the area. All these birds feed on insects.
 
 
