NEW DELHI: Around noon on Wednesday, it appeared that only three lenders to ailing   Infratech - IIFCL, ICICI Bank and IFCI, which account for 17.5% vote share - were going to "dissent" against  's 7,350 crore bid, arguing that the offer was below the liquidation value, estimated at around 8,000 crore. 

 B ut as soon as  , which has over 44% say, opted against the bid, it was clear that the resolution plan would not go through, throwing the project into fresh uncertainty. The vote came as a surprise given that the plan was formulated after more than a month of extensive consultation with lenders and their advisers, and the Valia Group was declared the "preferred bidder" despite some of the banks insisting that the offer should be raised to match lquidation value. 
 
 A part from the bid being lower than the liquidation value, some lenders were of the view that terminating the Taj Expressway contract wo- uld force the UP government to cough up 11,000 crore as "termination value", which was a more attractive proposition. Although this was the view among a handful of lenders until last week, by Wednesday,   Bank too bought into the argument . 
 
  What many did not realise was the change in mood in the banking sector after the   registered cases against top IDBI Bank executives, including former chairmen K P Kharat and M S Raghavan apart from independent directors and other current and former executives. No wonder, only Bank of Maharashtra and J&K Bank backed the plan, while SBI abstained and the other 10 voted against the offer. 
 
  A nother banker said the- re were issues with the plan and flagged realising only 75% of the value of the loans from the Valia Group as a concern. It's a different matter that in many other cases, banks are having to take a bigger hit. 
 
  W hile the resolution plan was formulated by bankers who were part of the committee of creditors, the final endorsement was to come from the top management, which was not forthcoming in several cases. 
 
  "Investigations in future are a big threat, especially after what happened at IDBI," a bank executive said. 
 
 
