NAGPUR: Despite being mired in controversies, KSL and Industries Limited has allegedly continued unauthorized constructions at  . On Sunday, a fire broke out in an allegedly unauthorized commercial stall inside the mall.

 Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) fire and emergency services department officials told TOI the fire reduced machinery and material at the stall to ashes. “The fire broke out in a food stall on the ground floor at around 6am on Sunday. A team of the developer’s workers managed to extinguish the fire. A fire tender from Ganeshpeth fire station was rushed to the spot, but returned without any efforts. Fortunately, the fire was noticed soon and controlled before it spread into adjoining shops,” the officials said.
 
 The officials added the food stall was established in an area meant for passage on the ground floor. “We have given a series of notices for such commercial usage in passages in the past. Still, the developer has continued the unauthorized activities. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake will inspect the mall on Tuesday and issue notice for unauthorized construction,” they said.
 
 A team from Ganeshpeth police station also reached the mall after learning about the fire incident.
 
 The fire department had declared 39 shops situated on ground, first, second and third floors of the mall as unauthorized and unsafe in March. All these were situated in passages, entrances, fire exits etc. Directives were given to remove all these establishments as soon as possible.
 
 Uchake said he would review compliance with earlier notices also during his visit to the mall.
 
 Chairman of KSL Industries Pravin Tayal did not respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 NMC Dhantoli Zone has lodged a complaint with Ganeshpeth police station to register an offence against KSL Industries for continuation of unauthorized constructions despite stay from the high court. This was done following directives of the general body. Former mayor and BJP corporator Pravin Datke had demanded in the general body meeting on April 20 registration of offence against KSL Industries for continuing construction of unauthorized structures despite HC stay.
 
 Ganeshpeth police is conducting investigation and is yet to register an offence.
 
 Also, NMC has submitted an affidavit before the HC informing about KSL Industries continuing unauthorized constructions despite stay. This was also done following the general body’s directives.
 
 Activist Chandu Lade and others had filed a PIL in the HC against unauthorized constructions at Empress Mall. Before that, the HC had imposed stay on NMC’s action against unauthorized constructions. Also, stay was given on NMC’s action to recover property tax and water bills. On the request of petitioners’ advocates Vivek Bharadwaj and Anirudha Deo, the HC clubbed all petitions and will continue the hearing. The next hearing is slated after the vacations.
 
 
