MUMBAI: Starting this year,   students studying India's geography won't learn details of their own country alone. While those are all there, their new textbook contains a thorough, almost page-by-page comparison with   on various aspects such as climate, topography, vegetation and more. 

  In an indication that the state board wants to make learning more broad-based for its students, the fresh SSC maths (Part I) textbook released on Wednesday also includes a chapter on financial planning which talks of GST, income tax, mutual funds and share markets, while the history book explores, in addition to wars, concepts such as history and mass media, entertainment, sports, heritage and historiography. 
 
 While other boards have changed syllabi to make them more up-to-date, the SSC board, sluggish in innovation, now seems keen to shed its laggard image.
 
 For example, N J Jadhav, chairperson of the geography subject committee, said comparisons with Brazil will help students understand better. "We picked Brazil on the basis of its similarities as well as differences with India," he said. The criteria followed for choosing a country for comparison was that it should be located in a different hemisphere and a different continent but should have cultural and natural diversity and a democratic form of government like India, officials said.
 
 "If the comparison shows India and Brazil have similar resources but one is doing better than the other, it will help students to understand what works and what doesn't work for each of the places," said a geography teacher from an Andheri school.
 
 However, Ravikiran Jadhav, member secretary of the subject committee said, "We don't intend to say one is better than the other. Since it is Class X, students have already studied various concepts, so from the point of view of revision we wanted to use two distinct regions."
 
 The textbook itself states that need for comparative study was taken into consideration. Also, "it was envisaged that...regional comparisons between two states within a country must be avoided," it said. Vidyadhar Amrute, a retired teacher and member of the   who has earlier pointed out mistakes in the board's texbooks said, "The method of teaching through comparison isn't prescribed by  , so we do not know the rationale behind the new format. The comparison need not have been with just one country."
 
 About the chapter on financial planning in the new maths textbook, Mangala Narlikar, chairperson of the subject committee, said, "It will have the basics of financial planning like calculating GST or options for investments and how they work. There are real examples included which students can relate to."
 
 The history textbook's earlier edition covered topics such as the 20th century as the age of conflict, and the emancipation of Asia, Africa and the world in the post-WW2 years. These will remain, and the lessons on applied history will add further value.
 
 A teacher who welcomed the inclusion of "real-life learning" in the new SSC books launched on Wednesday said, "Students need to learn concepts which are more relevant to their life. This will help build interest in a subject which is often considered difficult." "There isn't much difference in the   and state board syllabus, but the difference in learning levels is due to the way it is presented. Through the new textbooks, we have tried to change that. For instance, a concept taught in Class IX will be followed up with a more detailed approach in Class X and thus would not be forgotten right after the final exam," said education minister Vinod Tawde. The textbooks come with a QR code which can be used to access additional information for certain topics in every subject.
 
