If there’s one thing that’s certain about the upcoming film Mercury, it’s that the film will be a unique cinematic experienc — an edge-of-the-seat thriller without any dialogue in it, relying only on acting, background score and non-verbal cues to move the story forward. We caught up with the man behind the film, Kollywood director Karthik Subbaraj, known for films such as Pizza and  , to pick his brains on shooting a silent film, the challenges behind making it,   film industry and more. Excerpts…

 
 
 Ever since I made the short film Black And White, which had almost no dialogues, the idea of making a silent feature film fascinated me. It is often said that the mark of a good screenplay is it needs very few dialogues, so I always wanted to take up the challenge of writing a good screenplay without any dialogues. It was only with Mercury that I felt I had a story that could be told in a silent film format.
 
 
 
 The core plot of Mercury is so gripping that when I thought of making it as a silent film, it only made it more interesting. Once I finished writing the first draft, making a silent film that’s both thrilling and engaging seemed possible. When the film team read the final script, they felt the same. The central plot of the film holds enough firepower to keep you on the edge of your seat. Also, making this as a silent film gave us the freedom to play up other aspects to amp up the film’s thrill factor, such as background score and music.
 
 
 
 In a silent film, the visuals are of utmost importance. The film’s cinematography will give you an immersive experience and engulf you in its universe. Being a film sans dialogue, sound design plays a vital role. The film also involves a lot of event-based stunt sequences that’s both realistic and artistic. I’ve used a combination of all these to convey the story.
 
 
 
 The film’s story and script demanded a silent film treatment, not the other way round. Apart from being a thriller film, the story has a strong emotional core too, which is challenging to convey in a silent film.
 
 
 
 Pushpaka Vimana was nothing but inspiring. Being the only silent film after the era of talkies began, it garnered a lot of appreciation and reached a wide audience. Watching the movie gave me confidence that a silent film needn’t always be an art-house film. The difference between the two films is that while Pushpaka Vimana is a film based on humour, Mercury is a thriller.
 
 
 
 None of this was planned. When I made Pizza, all I had in my mind was to make the film reach as many people as possible. And with Jigarthanda, Iraivi and now Mercury, the focus is always to deliver a good film with a strong core. It is the script that demands the actors. I believe that each film, and the character in it, has its own voice and through me, it found the right people for it. Coming to Superstar Rajinikanth, it has always been a dream for me to work with him. I was thrilled when he called me after watching Pizza. But little did I think that someone like me would be able to work with him one day. That shows his magnanimity and willingness to explore new avenues. It is, without a doubt, a very big opportunity for me.
 
 
 
 Like I said, each script decides its actor. It’s true that an actor like   can carry out pretty much any role he sets his mind to. It is his innate quality to be able to do justice to any role. And since my stories demanded it, he has found himself to be in every film of mine. But with Mercury, right from the starts, it has been   sir who came to mind when I finished writing the film. He fits the role perfectly and I’m proud to say that you will see a Prabhudheva like never before.
 
 
 
 I closely follow the Kannada film industry. The new wave of filmmakers has been putting Kannada films in the spotlight. I like the works of Pawan Kumar, Rakshit Shetty and  , among others. Their ideas are fresh and innovative. They have managed to stay rooted to the language, yet bring out an international flavour to their films.
 
