NOIDA: The district administration has extended the winter break for students of Nursery to Class VIII by six days to January 10 because of “cold wave and extreme fog” .

 A circular issued by the district magistrate’s office read: “Due to cold wave and extreme fog prevailing in the district, the district magistrate BN Singh has ordered that the schools will remain closed for classes nursery to class 8 until January 10. This order will apply to all the government schools, non-affiliated, affiliated, CBSE and ICSE schools.”
 
 The DM had earlier ordered the schools to remain closed till January 4. 
 
 A few schools, however, reopened on Friday as the previous order did not reach in time. Classes continued as usual at the Assisi Convent School, Sector 33, on Friday. 
 
 “We have not received any order from the DM office so far to keep the school closed. We had opened the school on Friday after the winter vacation that started on December 22. We will close the school in case such an order is received,” Sister Sheeba, the principal of the school, told TOI.
 
 DSM Public School in Noida’s Bahlolpur village and Marigold Public School in Sector 27 were also open on Friday.
 
 An official of Marigold Public School said they, too, had not received Friday’s order so far. “We had to reopen the school for all classes on January 2 but had to close again following the DM order on January 1. We had opened today and will keep open on Monday too. In case we get the order on the extension of the winter break, we will abide by it,” he added.
 
 Hemlata, the principal of Government Government Kanya Inter College, Hoshiarpur, said: “The school was closed on Friday because of Guru Gobind Singh jayanti. We will now resume the break for Nursery to Class 8.” 
 
 District magiustrate BN Singh said the administration had expected that the schools would have received the orders to remain closed till January 10.
 
 The administration had ordered schools to keep closed in November because of rising air pollution.
 
 
