2018 is here and so are your plans to 
 . While the internet is loaded with information on exercises and diet plans for you to begin right away, TOI Health has major motivation for you to start your   with Mitanshu Jani's transformation. Mitanshu's turning point came with a fitness programme started by his company. Wondering how he lost a whopping 20 kilos? Read on to find out.

 
  Mitanshu Jani
 
 
 Senior Associate
 
 
  27
 
 
  91 kilograms
 
 
 20 kilograms
 
 
 When my company started a fitness program “Lose to Win” for 3 months.
 
 
  1 cup black coffee, handful of dates & almonds and one banana
 
 
  4 chapatis, boiled veggies or paneer with broccoli or boiled egg white and 1 bowl of salad
 
 
 Boiled eggs with 1 bowl of fruits or tomato soup or boiled paneer, boiled moong and chana
 
 
  Outside food once or twice in a month
 
 
 
 
 
  5-minute warm-up, alternate days I do functional and weight training. Every Sunday, I play one sport. I prefer cricket or a walk in the park for 30 - 45 minutes.
 
 
 I generally take low-calorie foods, so nothing to swear by.
 
 
  First, keeping a gap of minimum two hours in between meals. Second, drinking enough water to keep my metabolism healthy. And third, I also try to eat slowly as it helps in digesting foods easily.
 
 
  Being energetic during work and play keeps me going. Also, not gaining weight again is another motivation.
 
 
  I ensure I work out every day without fail before going to work. This goal keeps me going.
 
 
 
 
 
  Being overweight brings too much negativity. You have low confidence. You feel shy and low at crowded places. You cannot wear dresses which you like.
 
 
  I would like to be physically and mentally fit. I have vouched not to gain lost weight again.
 
 
  I have stopped eating oily and fatty foods. I have started exercising regularly. I follow a very strict diet with cheat days once a month. 
 
 
  I could not walk or run for more than 5 minutes. I would also start panting after climbing stairs. This was very depressing. 
 
 
  The most important lesson I learnt from   was being patient. Everyone wants to reduce their weight quickly and look good but it is not an easy journey. Also, it is important to maintain your lifestyle. Do not start eating unhealthy foods after losing weight. And the main thing to remember is “keep smiling and be happy”.
 
  
 
 
