PUNE: The National Green Tribunal ( ) bench here on Monday modified its September 27, 2016 judgment to enhance the environmental compensation cost imposed on Goel Ganga Developers India Private Limited from Rs 100 crore to Rs 190 crore in a review proceeding relating to illegal constructions at an integrated housing project at Vadgaon Budruk off Sinhagad road.

 The developer has to pay the money within a month towards restoration and restitution of environment damage, besides Rs 5 crore for contravening the mandatory provisions of several environmental laws and for exceeding the limit of the available environment clearance without taking the consent of the pollution regulator.
 
 Tanaji  , the applicant in the original matter, had filed a plea for the review of the judgment, arguing that the NGT had not considered his affidavit of May 18, 2016 for quantification of environmental compensation based on the carbon footprint generated by the project. As such, it ended up computing a lesser compensation cost. 
 
 The bench of   and expert member Nagin Nanda acknowledged on Monday, “The judgement under review has left enough room to raise a contention that certain material and relevant facts on record were not at all considered, resulting in the mistake or error apparent on the face of the record. Nowhere in the judgement under review we find mention of the affidavit dated May 18, 2016 voicing the concept of carbon footprint.”
 
 The bench conceded that the affidavit had gone “unrebutted” in its contents and “unnoticed”. “Even the contending parties, including respondent no 9 (developer), did not rebut the affidavit with any cogent material and through their submissions made before the tribunal. The error apparent on the face of the record did creep in the judgment (under review) and there is need to correct it,” the bench said.
 
 The bench dismissed the arguments by the counsels for the developer and the state environmnent department that the concept of carbon footprint nowhere finds a place in the environment impact assessment (EIA) manual, the environment clearance regulations of 2006 and the NGT Act of 2010 and the rules thereunder. “This does not per se lessen its importance in computation of environment compensation without giving thought to scientific merits,” the bench said. 
 
 Gambhire’s lawyer   told TOI, “The earlier ruling had imposed compensation cost of Rs 100 crore or 5% of total project cost to be assessed by the State Expert Appraisal Committee (SEAC), whichever is less. However, the modified ruling says Rs 190 crore or 5% of total project cost, whichever is higher.”
 
 Pingle said, “The developer had earlier deposited Rs 11.5 crore with the Supreme Court (SC), claiming that this was 5% of the total project cost assessed by the construction firm after the SEAC expressed its inability to carry out the project cost assessment, citing lack of wherewithal.” The applicant had argued that the developer should have approached either the SC or the NGT after the SEAC expressed its inability, he added. 
 
 Senior lawyer S K Jain, who represented the developer, said, “We will move the Supreme Court as we feel that our plea that the review was not maintainable before the NGT has been wrongly rejected.”
 
 Developer’s Take 
 
 In a statement released later, Goel Ganga’s managing director Atul Goel said, “We are in disagreement with the view taken by the NGT. We feel that the issue of carbon footprint raised in the order dated January 8, 2018 requires clarity in law and we alone cannot be hold responsible for violation due to carbon footprint. We will take recourse to the remedy available in the law and fight the battle initiated by a person who has one-point agenda of harassing us. We are confident that our plea will be heard by the judiciary and we will come out absolutely clean in the same.” 
 
 Goel said, “In the instant case, we have obtained our environmental clearance (EC) in 2008 before starting the work and have obtained the revised EC in 2017 itself. The work going on at the site is as per the permissions received from   and the state environment department. The NGT while deciding our case has referred to issues like definition of built-up area and implication of carbon footprint. These issues are not pertaining to only our projects but has larger connotations affecting construction projects of the whole country. On July 7, 2017, the ministry of environment and forests had to interfere clarifying the built-up issue.”
 
 
