PUNE: After an overwhelming response for the evening carnival last Saturday,   is set to take   by storm once again on May 19 with several new activities for the attendees. Participants will now be able to learn street dance forms like hip hop, take up a mannequin challenge or even participate in a cyclothon.

 
  
 One flank of the road from   junction to SKP junction will be closed for vehicular traffic to make way for enthusiasts looking for a different experience on a Saturday evening. The main stage will be set up at SKP junction where people can groove to popular Bollywood hits with instructors for Zumba and Folk Fitness. 
 
 Founder of Dancing Curve Kirti Advani said, “Our association with Happy Streets has been truly exhilarating. Dance has been the biggest attraction at Happy Streets for all age groups. This time we would be focusing on more styles and popular songs. The idea is to ensure everyone is a part of this big party.”
 
 Children will be greeted by mascots of their favourite cartoons on Baner Road. The young attendees can also enjoy book reading, puzzles and illusions, tattoo artists and mask painting. Further down the road, little ones and their parents can participate in the mannequin challenge or learn martial arts. Everyone can flaunt their creative side at the open mic poetry arena. 
 
 A robotics team will be waiting to engage attendees in a race. A trampoline and creative board games will engross the little ones while the elders enjoy drumming or archery. Angry Birds, target hit and mini golf, musical chairs and tug-of-war will ensure an adrenalin rush for all.
 
 A regular at the Happy Streets   had suggested the need to add cycling to the list of activities. Thus, the activity has been re-introduced with a cyclothon where attendees above 16 years of age can participate in a hurdle ride. Safety concerns wouldn’t come in the way of fun, as reflective jackets, helmets and well-maintained bicycles along with adjustable seats will be provided to the participants. Safety of the participants is a primary concern, and the hurdles have been arranged in a way that in case anyone falls from the bicycle, they won’t be harmed.
 
 Speaking about her experience last Saturday, Pimple Saudagar resident Sonali Patil said, “This has been an amazing experience. My four-year-old enjoyed all the games lined up at the evening carnival. We came all the way from Pimple Saudagar to attend Happy Streets as we had missed the last one. I had a lot of fun seeing my child being carefree and enjoying on the streets.”
 
 Happy Streets is an initiative by The Times of India in association with the   and Pune traffic police, powered by Kasturi.
 
 
