JAIPUR: Despite the   talking cognizance of vacancies in statutory boards and commissions, a number of posts in important bodies are still remaining vacant.

 While the matter is still pending in the court, the government is dragging its feet in making appointments to these bodies on one pretext or the other.
 
 The three-member   ( ) has only the chairman now and the posts of two of members are lying vacant for over one-and-a-half years. The   comprises a chairman and two members.
 
 After the then chairman, retired Justice N K Jain, had relinquished his post in July 2010, no chairman was appointed to the post till Oct 2015. The functions of the commission were looked after by its two members, Dr M K Devrajan and Dr HR Kuri.
 
 The current chairman, Justice Prakash Tatia, was appointed to the post in October 2015 only after the Supreme Court intervened. When finally the commission got a chairman, the terms of two members expired. The government has not appointed a replacement for Devrajan and Kuri whose term expired in August 30, 2016.
 
 The court appointed amicus curiae in the case, Prateek Kasliwal, said that after the court took cognizance of the matter and due to its constant scrutiny, the government had made some appointments, but most others remain vacant.
 
 According to the latest data provided by the government, the posts of two members of the the Public Service Commission ( ) are vacant. Similarly, in the Rajasthan State Consumer Redressal Commission (RSCRC) also the post of three members are vacant and its website has also not been updated. In the   (RWT) two posts are yet to be filled up.
 
 There were no websites for most of these boards and commissions before the high court took up this matter. The number of vacancies in the Rajasthan State Non-Governmental Educational Tribunal has not been mentioned in the website.
 
 Dr Devrajan, who had retired as DGP and done a comprehensive study on the silicosis menace among mine workers and compensation for the victims as a member of the SHRC, said, “The failure of the government to fill up these posts shows how serious it is about protecting the rights of people who have genuine grievances.”
 
 BOX: To Be Filled
 
 State Human Rights Commission: 2
 
 Rajasthan Public Service Commission: 2
 
 SCDC: 3
 
 Rajasthan Waqf Tribunal: 2
 
 
