MUMBAI: Unable to track down the two key accused in the murder case of former   corporator Ashok Sawant, the Samta Nagar police have started to circulate messages on Whatsapp with the duo's photographs. The messages sent on the police department's internal Whatsapp group asks that the two accused, whenever spotted, be immediately reported to the Samta Nagar police. Jagdish Pawar alias Jagya and Abhishek Mane alias   have been on the run for more than a month after stabbing the two-time corporator to death.

 Police said Pawar and Mane have been using different cellphone numbers to avoid being tracked. They had fled to Kalyan after the murder. "We have arrested six people in the case so far. These include auto driver Ganesh   who ferried the killers, Sohail Dodhiya who hired Jogdand's auto, a 17-year-old boy from Pune who was involved in the actual stabbing, Vishal Gaikwad (Mane's nephew) who gave shelter to the killers,   activist   who masterminded the crime and former cop Deepak Hanvate who gave shelter to Waghmare. We believe Pawar and Mane are holed up somewhere within Maharashtra itself. Our teams are looking for them at various locations," a senior police official said. The crime branch is also simultaneously searching for Pawar and Mane.
 
 There have been several possible motives for Sawant's murder but the actual one will only be established once the two killers are caught. Waghmare told the police that Sawant's murder was intended to send out a message to his associate__ a builder__ and exert pressure on him, so that he succumbs and pays up.
 Waghmare had apparently filed RTI pleas against the builder's project and demanded money for staying quiet. But Sawant had foiled his attempts at extorting from the builder. Besides this, Pawar, who had known Sawant for a long time, was irked at being dismissed as his bodyguard. Waghmare and Pawar teamed up as they both had differences with Sawant.
 
 On January 7, Sawant was returning home on a bike after dinner at a restaurant with his associate, Vinod Sonawane, around 10.45pm. As they neared his residence at Sur building, an autorickshaw came up from behind. One of the occupants kicked the bike, and Sonawane and Sawant, who was riding pillion, fell down. Sonawane got up to chase the auto and started hurling abuses. The auto had halted and a couple of men stepped out. They approached Sawant and stabbed him nearly 20 times. Sonawane froze, and when the assailants were leaving, he identified one of them as Pawar.
 
 
 
