Nagpur: Maharashtra government’s decision to ask state universities and grant-in-aid colleges to reduce their teaching staff strength by 30% came under the scanner after Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court orally observed such a move would adversely affect quality of education.

 “Prima facie, we find teachers’ strength in colleges should be determined by the ratio with respect to students as determined by the University Grants Commission (UGC). Else, it would prove detrimental for the next generation pursuing education,” a division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Arun Upadhye said.
 
 The court’s observations came while hearing a plea by Gondia Education Society (GES) through its authorized signatory Nikhil Jain challenging the government resolution (GR) of May 25 asking all universities and grant-in-colleges to reduce their staff strength by 30% by taking a review. The society founded by late Manoharbhai Patel and now run by his family members including ex-union minister   has 13 grant-in-aid colleges in Gondia and Bhandara.
 
 While issuing notices to the state higher and technical education and finance secretaries, the court asked them to file a comprehensive reply in two weeks. Pune-based director of higher education Dhanraj Mane, joint director of technical education for Nagpur division Jayram Khobragade and Nagpur University registrar Puran Meshram are other respondents in the case.
 
 Petitioner’s lawyer Bhanudas Kulkarni contended there are about 380 sanctioned posts of teachers in GES’s 13 colleges and their salaries were being paid by the government. However, due to government’s reluctance, GES couldn’t fill up 116 posts in last five years despite many requests.
 
 Only after much persistence that the higher and technical department’s officials agree to fill up 31 of 116 vacant posts. Accordingly, GES issued an advertisement on May 17 last year inviting applications from the eligible candidates. NU also constituted a panel to conduct interviews and finalize candidates. After completion of formalities, a list of duly qualified candidates was prepared and dispatched to the government in July for approval.
 
 The government instead cited its May 25 GR on wage restriction that had asked all institutions to reduce staff strength by 30%. It asked the petitioner society to send revised proposal accordingly.
 
 GES challenged this GR contending teachers’ workload can’t be reduced or increased as per whims and fancies of the government but it depended on UGC’s guidelines on teachers-students ratio. Kulkarni clarified the government has no right to interfere in such matters, where UGC is the apex body.
 
 He pointed out wages reduction would deter good candidates from taking up the noble job of a teacher which, in turn, would affect the students. He argued that for improving quality of education, good teachers were needed. He also stated that contributory teachers were not serious about their jobs.
 
 
