FEROZEPUR: A doctor posted in the Ferozepur civil hospital has been caught on video allegedly thrashing and abusing a woman patient in the presence of policemen. As the video of the incident has gone viral on social media, people have demanded strict legal and departmental action against the doctor. Taking notice of the incident, Ferozepur police booked the doctor on Saturday.

 In the video, ENT specialist Dr   is allegedly seen abusing, thrashing and dragging a woman patient from hair while two policemen were seen as mute spectators of the entire episode.
 
 According to information gathered from the spot, it was found that the woman, who has not been identified yet, had come to the hospital outpatient department (OPD) for her check-up from Dr Kushaldeep Singh on Friday. As the doctor was busy attending other patients, she started arguing with him following which he called the police by dialling police helpline number.
 
 When the woman patient did not stop arguing with the doctor and insisted for her checkup, the doctor reportedly lost his patience and started thrashing her and dragged from hair in the OPD.
 
 Terming the incident as unfortunate, Ferozepur senior superintendent of police (SSP)   directed the   police station to register a case against the doctor. “The conduct of two policemen seen in the video will also be examined for taking further action,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, the police have started investigation after registering a case under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 294 (does any obscene act in the public place) of the IPC.
 
 Dr Kushaldeep admitted that he had acted in a fit of anger as the woman patient was harassing him for sometime. “The woman was mentally not well and when she started abusing me in front of patients besides attempted to manhandle me, I called the police. When she continued with her misbehaviour and abuses, I lost my patience and reacted.”
 
 Punjab health minister Brahm Mohindra, Ferozepur civil surgeon and senior medical officer (SMO) couldn’t contacted despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
