HYDERABAD: Three video clips of actor and   chief Pawan Kalyan are doing the rounds on social media these days. In each of these, TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao, his daughter K Kavitha and son K TRama Rao are taking a dig at the actor-politician and poking fun at him. This was prior to the 2014 elections when Pawan Kalyan aligned himself with the   and TDP and campaigned for their candidates.

 Cut to January 1, 2018 and chief minister Chandrasekhar Rao invites Pawan to his official residence-cum-camp house ‘Pragati Bhavan’ and both of them ‘exchange pleasantries’. “I went to wish him on New Year day. I also appreciated him for being able to provide 24 hours power supply in   state, something that was unimaginable previously,” Pawan said.
 
 The romance has blossomed further. For three days beginning January 22, Pawan went on a tour of Telangana districts. This too was unimaginable. Telangana Joint Action Committee (TJAC) chairman M Kodandaram was detained by the police on several occasions when he tried to undertake protest programmes in the state. It wasn’t too far ago that the TJAC and TRS together led the agitation for a separate Telangana.
 
 Attempts by the Madiga Reservation Porata Samithi (MRPS) leader Manda Krishna Madiga to undertake protests resulted in him being jailed. Protests held earlier at the popular   were disallowed by the police after the TRS came to power.
 
 So eyebrows were raised when Pawan , a bitter critic of KCR, announced that he would undertake a Telangana tour. The JSP leader conducted road shows and meetings in   and Khammam. “I thank the police for their cooperation,” he said in Khammam, indicating that his tour had the support of TRS.
 
 From all his speeches, the message that came out loud and clear was that he supported KCR with all his heart. “In fact, I like him. I have always liked him. He is a hardworking and smart chief minister,” Pawan said.
 
 Pawan also said his party could contest the 2019 polls in Telangana and  , but he would field candidates in constituencies that could be identified as being ‘strong’ for the JSP. Is it possible that KCR has promised him a few seats? The TRS has identified the   as its main rival and Pawan Kalyan has made ensured attacks on Congress in his meetings.
 
 The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) is practically non-existent in Telangana. Out of 15 TDP candidates who won in the 2014 polls, 12 shifted to the TRS and even became ministers. A   and MLC also joined the party. This has also led to some TRS leaders openly expressing their disenchantment.
 
 Getting Pawan Kalyan to join his bandwagon is a clear tactical ploy to decimate the Congress, which has 14 seats. The MIM with seven seats has also come out in support of the TRS government, as seen during the assembly proceedings.
 
