GURUGRAM: The Haryana government ordered   of all   and   in urban areas on the occasion of   on Thursday. 

 The restrictions, according to MCG, have also been imposed on sale of eggs and fish as well as processed meat sold in hypermarkets and cold cuts stores. 
 
 Medical officer of MCG, Dr Ashish Singhla, said the curbs would be imposed only on March 29. The MCG asked meat stores and slaughter ouses in the city to strictly adhere to the order, which was issued by the urban local bodies department. “We urge people who are involved in the business to abide by the order strictly,” said Singhla.
 
 Urban local bodies minister Kavita Jain on Wednesday said Mahavir Jayanti was observed every year as non-violence day. Various religious organisations had met her and demanded prohibition on animal slaughter on March 29. Following this, sources said, the minister instructed the officials concerned to prepare a proposal to shut slaughterhouses and restrict sale of meat, fish and eggs on March 29, and it was later approved by the government keeping in view of religious sentiments of Jain community.
 
 Jain, according to sources, instructed officials to ensure strict compliance of the order in municipal areas and submit a report on the same.
 
 The order to ban sale of meat, fish and eggs, however, evoked dissent among a few meat traders in the city. 
 
 “Mostly people from lower income group are involved in this trade. Such orders affect our business and people involved in this trade,” the owner of a meat store in Khandsa Mandi said, adding that the traders would keep their shops shut as they didn’t have any other option. 
 
 The owner of a popular meat store in Galleria market condemned the ban imposed by the government. “Ever since this government assumed office, it has been ordering such curbs every year. It can’t decide what an individual should eat on which day. This is our job, and the authorities can’t prevent us from earning our bread and butter,” he said.
 
 The owner of another meat shop on Golf Course Road also criticised the move. “Shutting shops even for a single day will result in considerable losses. Will the government pay us for the monetary loss we suffer? The politics of appeasement should be stopped once and for all,” he said.
 
 
