Vijayawada: Teachers have to introduce a well-structured interaction in the classrooms to promote critical learning, said P Ramanujam, professor of English and director at ELT Centre. He was speaking at the principals’ seminar organised by the NIE in the city on Friday.

 Ramanujam said critical thinking happens when students in classrooms are made to analyse the facts, evidence, pages and conclusions. Critical thinking demands skills of doing research, formulation of hypothesis, testing the hypothesis and listening to perspectives other than their own and justifying their case, he said. It also demands making interpretations based on the information, and decisions based on the hypothesis, he added. Stating that telling is not teaching, he said many aspects like reasoning, analysing, applying of knowledge, imagining and evaluating are absent in today’s teaching methods.
 
 Research has proved repeatedly that subject to questioning on the part of the teachers and a well-structured interaction in the classrooms help stimulate critical thinking in students, Ramanujam said. The teachers spend most of the time lecturing in classrooms and ask questions at the end of the lecture to find out the level of understanding in the students on a topic, he observed. In such a scenario, students, more often than not, do not have the motivation to learn beyond a certain level, he added.
 
 Instead, the teachers should reduce their talk in the classrooms and start interacting more with the students, Ramanujam said, adding that there could be various kinds of interactions, such as learner interaction and outside-the-classroom interaction.
 
 Ramanujam also spoke about posing problems to students based on the content. Convert information into something that sounds like a problem to them, he urged. “Young people readily respond to problems. Heuristic and discovery learning are important in teaching. Students should be allowed to learn by experimenting and discovering,” he added.
 
 Autonomous learning will be the result of this kind of teaching, he said, adding that students can then learn to do their own research on any topic they are interested in and teaching becomes sort of an enlightenment for them which they will enjoy.
 
 The professor talked about a case study conducted at Gudlavalleru Engineering College, where he segregated the college students into three groups of above average (bright), average, and below-average students, and formed teams with students from all the groups with at least two bright students in each team. The bright students were made mentors and given the responsibility of teaching the rest of the group on a given topic and it was something the students really enjoyed, he said, adding that peer-mentoring is another important aspect of teaching.
 
 
