Kolkata: Not always in   do we see a rival captain feel more at home than the home team skipper. Delhi Daredevils skipper   will enjoy this privilege when he leads his team out against Kolkata Knight Riders at the Eden Gardens here on Monday.

 Gambhir, after all led KKR for seven seasons during which the Knights won the IPL trophy twice (2012 and 2014). The former India opener is also KKR’s all-time leading run-getter and was instrumental in turning the Eden Gardens as his team’s fortress during his tenure.
 
 On Monday, Gauti will have to set aside nostalgia when he makes an emotional return to his happy hunting ground, albeit as the rival captain. The Delhi team has gathered a bit of momentum, having beaten Mumbai Indians in a close encounter on Saturday. KKR, on the other hand, surrendered quite meekly to Sunriseres Hyderabad at home.
 
 KKR made things difficult for themselves by experimenting mindlessly and ended up creating chaos out of cosmos. It was difficult to see any logic behind KKR’s move to tinker with their batting order against SRH. The end result was a below-par tally (138/8) that was easily chased down by SRH.
 
 KKR’s new skipper Dinesh Karthik blamed the rain interruption behind his team’s poor tally, Delhi captain Gambhir rotated his bowlers well to put the brakes on the Mumbai innings after Suryakumar Yadav and Evin Lewis had given them a flying start on Saturday. Delhi fought hard till the end to come up trumps.
 
 Delhi look a well-balanced side with plenty of firepower in batting as well as bowling. Jason Roy and Gambhir complement each other at the top of the order, followed by bighitters like Rishabh Pant, Glenn Maxwell and Shreyas Iyer. Delhi have such abundance of riches that they can afford to leave world’s top T20 batsman Colin Munro on the bench after two failures.
 
 Delhi’s pace attack, however, has failed to deliver so far. Both Trent Boult and Mohammad Shami have leaked runs. Both should, however, relish bowling on an Eden pitch that offers good bounce and carry.
 
 KKR need to go back to the drawing board and come up with a better strategy. Skipper Karthik tried to justify the random changes in the batting order KKR made on Saturday. Talking about Subhman Gill coming in at No. 7, the skipper said “we thought of sending him in the middle-order where he can just “express himself.”
 
 
