PUNE: The   ( )’s move to introduce features such as face authentication and virtual ID to strengthen security of   data is being seen by experts as an “admission” that the current features are not secure.

 With the   slated to hear Aadhaar petitions on January 17, experts have voiced concern that UIDAI’s knee-jerk reaction was a last-minute attempt to cover up lack of security of humungous data stored in one place.
 
 E-governance expert   said that the decision to come up with virtual ID was admission by UIDAI that storage of Aadhaar number was “dangerous and wrong”. 
 
 “If these were not so, virtual ID (VID) would be unnecessary. The introduction of VID also shows that UIDAI had failed to implement its own Aadhaar Act and authentication regulations that prohibit storage of Aadhaar numbers,” he said.
 
 UIDAI has been unable to enforce the law and restrict usage of Aadhaar numbers in strict compliance of section 8 of the Aadhaar Act and the Aadhaar (Authentication) Regulations, 2016. Even the technology solutions provided by UIDAI violate regulations by including Aadhaar number in eKYC records, he added.
 
 The expert felt that virtual IDs would make no difference as Aadhaar numbers stored by banks, telecom companies, educational institutions, hospitals and government offices cannot be recalled.
 
 Instead of restricting public use to only VID, UIDAI was still allowing global Aaadhaar user agencies to store Aadhaar numbers. 
 
 This will result in Aadhaar numbers being stored contrary to the Act and regulations, stated the expert.
 
  said that it was surprising that a year back UIDAI had no doubt about other authentication and now suddenly it has introduced face authentication. ‘They are rushing these ahead of hearing on January 17,’’stated Crishna, who had filed his petition against Aadhaar in 2012.
 
 His co-petitioner G.Nagarjuna, professor at Homi Bhabha Centre for Science Education, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, said adding new features would not make any sense. 
 
 
