LUDHIANA: The tall claims of afforestation and green activists making all-out efforts to increase the tree cover in Ludhiana, a city notorious for high levels of pollution, seem to have fallen flat. The latest Forest Survey of India (FSI) report says the forest area in the district has witnessed a huge decrease.

 The survey, which took into account forest area change from 2015 to 2017, also stated that the area remained negligible as compared to the standard. 
 
 As per the report released by FSI, Dehradun, Ludhiana district has a forest area of 55 sq km, which was 68 sq km in the report of 2015. There is a big fall under open and moderate dense forest, which as per the latest report are 29 sq km and 26 sq km, respectively; the figures were 35 sq km and 33 sq km in 2015.
 
 The   in the district is just 3.37% of the geographical area, which is 1,633 sq km. The report puts Ludhiana at number eighth among the districts of the state. Hoshiarpur, Rupnagar, Gurdaspur, SAS Nagar, SBS Nagar, Patiala and Bathinda take the top seven positions.
 
 The national average is 24.39% of the geographical area. 
 
 The green activists are both saddened and shocked. “This is bad news for Ludhiana, as it is among the top 10 polluted cities of the world as per the latest WHO report. This is mainly due to deforestation for construction of various roads. There are chances that after cutting trees, the authorities don’t plant new saplings,” said  , a green activist. He added that the government should immediately carry out afforestation and involve residents.
 
 ‘Development activities are the reason’
 
 Rishi Gill, head of the department of forestry at Punjab Agricultural University, said, “The forest cover in Ludhiana is as it is quite less. Development activities are the main cause for depletion of the forest, but that too are essential to cope with population increase. Deforestation should be compensated with dedicated green covers.”
 
 SS Chana, who has worked in the  , said, “The figure is wrong as it includes PAU and GNE College forest cover. The depletion of forest cover is alarming and should be addressed at the earliest. When agencies carry out deforestation for various development activities, as per National Green Tribunal norms, they have to set aside a percentage of funds for plantation activity. I am not sure that they have done it.” 
 
 We are already grappling with high air pollution and to add to it is depleting forest cover.   area had good forest cover, but due to construction of national highways, authorities have cut down trees and I am not sure whether they have planted saplings. This is not only affecting humans, but also birds, like house sparrows and crows, who are disappearing.
 
 
