KOLKATA: At least four of the city’s biggest and oldest   have hiked   prices and several others are planning to follow suit following the massive hike in bar licence fee by the excise department. One of them has had to shut down two smaller bars to manage its budget.

 On Saturday, Dalhousie Institute (DI) — last of the big clubs that had withheld payment of licence fee hoping that the 10-fold hike would be revised downward — paid up to ensure that its bars remained functional on Sunday. 
 
 
  
 
 Having paid the fees, the club managements are now faced with a new problem: how to tally the higher outgo in the balance sheet with earnings from the bar. Tolly Club, Royal Calcutta Golf Club, Bengal Club and Lake Club have done the arithmetic and realised there is no option but to go in for a price revision. At these clubs, liquor prices will go up by 5%-10%. The others, too, want to do the same but are biding time before they are forced to swallow the bitter pill.
 
 One club though has devised a way that will not require it to revise the liquor price. Calcutta Rangers Club collected Rs 4,000 from each member to pay the additional licence fee amount so that it does not impact the club’s balance sheet. Dalhousie Athletic Club, too, could go in for a higher annual subscription from members to raise the fee amount.
 
 Bengal Club, too, tried to soften the impact by surrendering two subsidiary bar licences. But it has still had to go in for a 5% hike in liquor price. “We’ve tried to ensure that the impact on members is minimal. Our members are happy the hike is not in double digits,” said club CEO Dipankar Chakravorty. 
 
 Tolly Club could not avoid a double-digit hike. Club CEO Anil Mukerji said a circular had been issued to members, informing them of the decision to hike liquor price by 10% from April 1 to absorb the impact of the licence fee. At Lake Club, a fee hike decision has been taken by the management but the quantum of hike will be decided at a meeting. “We don’t want to increase the rates beyond what is necessary to cover the costs. But there is no way we can sustain without a hike. We just don’t have that many members and that much liquor sale to absorb the fee hike,” said club secretary Subrata Guha.
 
 Other premier clubs like DI, Calcutta Club, Calcutta Rowing Club (CRC), Calcutta Cricket & Football Club (CC&FC) and International Club have adopted a wait and watch policy for now. 
 
 Conscious of how unpopular a decision to hike either club fees or price of drinks, CCFC president Jayant Jaypal Singh said the club has decided to retain the current liquor rates and absorb the fee as a hike would inconvenience members. “Let us try and see how much we can absorb. If it is financially difficult to sustain, members will have to take a call,” said Singh. 
 
 CRC general secretary  , too, doesn’t want to hike the price of liquor. “We have to do something to balance the account books and keep the club healthy. We will be working out something in a few days,” he said.
 
 
