Vadodara: What’s in a name? A lot if one sees a missive that M S University (MSU) officials have written to Gujarat government. 
 
 Gujarat’s only English medium university has taken a strong objection to a move proposed by the state education department to rechristen city-based GSFC University as ‘Vadodara University’. Sources said that based on a resolution passed by the GSFC University, the education department of the state government had recently written a letter to MSU seeking its opinion on rechristening GSFC University as ‘Vadodara University’. 
  
 MSU has shot a strongly-worded letter stating that the university, set up through the Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda Act 1949, is also known as Baroda University or Vadodara University both at national and international level for decades and no other institute can be known by either of this names. “Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda has helped Vadodara city create its own identity at global level. It is because of this unique bond that it shares with the city that it is also known and addressed/ referred as MS University, Baroda University or Vadodara University,” MSU’s letter to education department states. 
  
 The letter, which TOI has accessed, also refers to the university song that was composed by renowned Gujarati playwright, critic, poet and travel writer late Chandravadan Chimanlal Mehta popularly known as C C Mehta or ‘Chan.Chi’ amongst MSU fraternity. The lyrics of the university song is sung in Gujarati but is traditionally written in the Devanagari script. The first line of the university anthem itself starts with ‘Ame Vadodara na Vidyapith na sapna saravnara’. (roughly translated as we the ones who fulfil the dreams of the university of Vadodara). 
  
 “The university song which is being sung since over 65 years clearly provides the identity of the university of Vadodara or Vadodara University to M S University since its inception. Hence, there is no question of addressing/ re-christening/ naming any other education institute or university as Vadodara University,” the letter states. MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas confirmed that education department had sought university’s opinion on the subject. “We have provided our response to them,” he said. The letter further states that since 1908, MSU has continued its legacy of providing education to Vadodara city and its residents as visualised by the visionary ruler of erstwhile Baroda state – Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III. 
  
 While A M Tiwari, managing director of GSFC who presently is president of GSFC University could not be contacted for his comments, a university official to whom TOI spoke to said “he was not aware about the subject.” 
  
 Sources, however, said that the move to re-christen GSFC University as Vadodara University was being discussed since quite some time. 
  
 “There was a discussion that if GSFC University continues to function with the same name, it may seem like a GSFC subset or a unit functioning under the company. The idea of re-christening it was to develop a generic identity for the university so that in long run it can create a separate identity for itself,” said a source. 
  
 The state-run Gujarat State Fertilizers and Chemicals (GSFC) Limited had set up the university in 2015. Its first batch commenced in August 2015. Presently, operating from GSFC campus, GSFC University offers bachelors of engineering in mechanical, civil and chemical streams apart from bachelors of science programmes. 
  
  
