LUCKNOW: Repolling for the   byelections saw 61% voter turnout on Wednesday. Taking note of complaints of snag in the electronic voting machines and VVPAT system, the election commission of India ( ) ordered a repoll on 73 polling stations of the Parliamentary seat. Of these, five booths were located in Shamli, while 68 booths were in Saharanpur district. 

 
 Bypoll on the Kairana seat was held on May 28. The seat was vacated after the demise of   MP Hukum Singh. Brisk polling was witnessed at most of the booths which are seen as traditional strongholds of the SP and  . Counting will be held on Thursday.
 
 During the bypolls, only 54% of the 16.4 lakh voters reached the polling station, which was too low for Kairana that has recorded high polling percentage in the past. In 2014 Lok Sabha, 73% voters in Kairana exercised their franchise.
 
 EVM related issues were reported from polling stations. While the opposition parties took up the issue with ECI, administrative authorities blamed that the high temperature during the day led to EVM and VVPAT snags. 
 
 On Wednesday, voting began at a slow pace in Kairana, which is testing the mettle of both the ruling BJP and the unity of the opposition, which is supporting SP candidate contesting on RLD ticket. By 9 am, only 18.71% electorate voted. By 3 pm however, 51% voters had pressed the button on the EVMs. 
 
 Voting picked up amid minor problems at some booths. As per the office of the chief electoral officer, polling stopped for a brief time due to complaints from five booths. While in one place, the ballot unit was faulty, in four other places the VVPAT machines were not working. They claimed that all polling resumed after the faulty units were replaced. 
 
 When asked to comment, Congress vice-president and party face in western UP,   said, "Trends appear to be positive for joint candidate Tabbassum. Unless the ruling party indulges in some foul play, her seat is through." 
 
 Reacting to the temperature issue, he said, "I think the weather has supported us in the battle against divisive forces." 
 
