BHOPAL: Stray dogs have made life miserable for residents. There is hardly a day when people are not at the receiving end of the canines in the city. 

 According to a recent data, every two hours a person is bitten by stray dogs in the state capital. And this figure does not give the complete picture as Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme ( ), which collects data from city hospitals, has not been getting any information from the largest tertiary care hospital in the city for over a year.
 
 
  
 Going by statistics, stray dog menace is fast turning into a nightmare for residents with number of dog bite cases in the city doubling in the last five years. According to district health department estimates, over 4,800 cases were reported in 2017 and they could well over 10,000 cases, if all the hospitals had reported, said a senior health department official. Interestingly, cases of deaths due to rabies from   and Sagar are not included by the IDSP.
 
 Over the years, denselypopulated areas near Vallabh Bhawan, Arera Colony, Misrod, Bairagarh and   hospital have reported the maximum number of dog bite cases. On Sunday, a nineyear old boy was attacked by stray dogs in   area.
 
 The incident has once again exposed claims of   officials. Increasing dog bites are blamed on poor sanitation, overflowing garbage and roadside eateries that dump food articles in the open. Civic body officials said the number of such incidents would come down once 60% of the city’s canine population is sterilized. They said it would take two to three years to meet the target. There are an estimated 50,000 stray dogs in Bhopal. “Decrease in number of dog bites and attacks would be visible in the coming months. Sterilization measures undertaken by the BMC would take some time to show their impact,” said a BMC official.
 
 IDSP officials said that gestation period in dogs is just 60 days and they can breed twice a year. IDSP data indicates that there were 1000 more dog bites in the city in the first seven weeks of this year as compared to the same period last year.
 
