PHULPUR: That UP's dons known as 'bahubalis' - facing grave criminal charges including murder - jump into poll fray has been a routine affair. But this time in  , former MP  , charged with 35 cases of violence and arson, has filed his nomination as an Independent from inside jail. 

 And, it's his 19-year-old son Umar and wife   who have taken charge of the campaign, holding door-to-door contact and public rallies in the constituency, represented by Jawaharlal Nehru in the past. "I have responsibilities of a wife and mother but situation has come to such a pass that I have to bring my 19-year-old son from Delhi. You can understand how does a mother feel when a son is out at nights while her husband is locked up inside a prison 400 kilometres away," says burqa-clad Shaista in impeccable Urdu as she holds the microphone.
 
 In Allahabad, Atiq and his henchmen are feared for disregard for law machinery. At least 18 times between 2003 and 2016, the family’s assets and properties have been seized by the district magistrate under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986. His most recent run-in with law took place when he and his henchmen allegedly ran amok at Sam Higginbottom University of Agriculture, Technology & Science (SHUATS) in Naini area of Allahabad and his aides slapped professors while opposing malpractices during examination.
 
 Umar, who is studying law at a top private university in Noida, however, disagrees with the father’s perception and also the need to keep weapons. “Weapons are necessary to keep oneself safe from enemies. Whatever my father did was for the needy, never for his personal empire or business,” he says.
 
 “Chacha dekhiyega….Mere walid saab aapka khayal rakha karte the, ab aap unka rakhiyega,” he enumerates his father’s assistance, both in money and kind, to girl students, handicapped and other needy people.
 
 According to his nomination papers, the family’s assets run into more than Rs 30 crore. This includes four licensed weapons—a Rs 65,000-pistol and Rs 3.5 lakh-licensed rifle owned by Atiq. There are three licensed weapons owned by Shaista.
 
 Besides, Umar has four younger brothers, who flaunt latest models of iPhones and luxurious brands as Calvin Klein.
 
 The Ahmad family comes from a local Sunni Gaddi tribe, who are shepherds by profession and are considered equivalent to the Yadav community among Hindus in UP. At a time when BJP and SP have fielded an OBC from Patel community and Congress has banked upon a Brahmin face, the Ahmad family aims to take away Muslim votes.
 
 
