ASANSOL/KOLKATA: Two persons died in unabated violence in   town on Thursday as a worried administration struggled to bring peace to pockets of West Burdwan district, where violence started with   processions in Raniganj on Sunday. The statewide toll since Sunday’s clashes now stands at five, with three deaths being reported from West Burdwan and one each from Purulia and North 24-Parganas’ Kankinara.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 The continuing violence prompted CM   to head to the state secretariat directly from the airport, after she returned from her three-day visit to Delhi on Thursday, and convene an emergency meeting of the government brass.
 
 Sibtullah, 17, who appeared for the Madhyamik examination a few days ago, and  , 45, from wards 25 and 27, respectively, of Asansol town were Thursday’s casualties. A two-month-old baby fell off her mother’s lap in the violence and was injured.
 
 Sibtullah’s bereaved father and local imam Imamdullah Rashid appealed to his congregation during the janaza namaz (final prayer) on Thursday to be patient and restore peace. The town itself remained cut off from the rest of the state, with the administration clamping Section 144 and ordering suspension of internet services.
 
 “We are happy that both communities want peace. This will help us identify the instigators of the arson and violence. We have already initiated an investigation and will book the culprits,” sub-divisional officer Pralay Roy said.
 
 The town itself remained cut off from the rest of the state, with the administration clamping Section 144 and ordering suspension of internet services.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 “Two persons died in violence. We are appealing to people to resume work and bring Asansol back to normal,” Asansol Municipal Corporation mayor Jitendra Tewari said.
 
 The town itself wore a deserted look as the news of the deaths spread by word of mouth. Shops remained closed as special combat battalions from Kolkata and Barrackpore led a route march in the trouble-torn zones like Chandmari More, Railpaar, Safi More, Baruabazar and Hajinagar.
 
 Police were seen escorting Higher Secondary examinees to the 17 examination centres in the town on Thursday. Guardians accompanying students held hands outside some exam centres, like the one at Bal Bodhan High School near Chandmari More, to preempt violence while the examination was on.
 
 Asansol HS examination convenor Rajib   told TOI that all HS examinees reached their centres on time. “We will arrange for police escorts for the next examination if students feel insecure,” Mukherjee said.
 
 Politicians hit the streets but things did not go their way at several places. Junior union minister Babul Supriyo visited Chandmari slum dwellers around 1 p.m. but some of the families there barracked him and asked him where he was when they were fleeing for their lives and dared him to visit the troubled zones. Police stopped the minister as he tried to continue his march and slapped non-bailable sections against him in two separate FIRs after there was a scuffle with cops.
 
 The union minister, too, lodged a complaint with the Asansol North police station, alleging that he was assaulted by IPS officer Rupesh Kumar. Supriyo’s lawyer, Priyanka Tibrewal, said Supriyo — as the local MP — was free to move in his constituency. “The minister was also not given intimation about the clamping of Section 144 in the area,” she said.
 
 
