MUMBAI: The farmers’   which began a week ago from Nashik and culminated in Mumbai was called off on Monday evening after the state government gave specific commitments on two of the protesters’ nine   and assured in writing that the rest would be looked into by committees it would constitute. 

 However, after a four-hour meeting with the cultivators’ 15-member delegation, the government remained non-committal on whether the remaining seven demands would be finally  .
 
 The CPI(M)’s farmer wing, the Kisan Sabha, that organized the march – the Communists’ first show of strength in Maharashtra in a long time and supported by their arch rival and BJP partner Shiv Sena, apart from Congress and NCP -- had asked for an unconditional loan waiver, transfer of forest land in the name of landless tribals under the Forest Rights Act, 2006, and the setting up of a committee for agricultural pricing and compensation for the pink bollworm attack which has affected 35 lakh cotton   across the state, among other things.
 
 “We have agreed to most of the demands raised by the farmers and tribals. Their main demand was for transfer of forest land in their names. We have constituted a special team to look into that and complete the process in six months,” CM Devendra Fadnavis said.
 
 About the commitments made, he said, “An important decision we have taken is to extend the loan waiver scheme to cover the 2001-to-2009 period as many farmers (affected during this time) didn’t get any benefit in the waiver announced in 2008.” So far the government has considered applications from 2009 to 2016. The second promise is to include term loans under the waiver scheme. 
 
 Apart from a blanket waiver, the protestors had sought changes to the criteria for availing of it, saying each person in a family must be considered a separate applicant. “The CM has decided to see how much of a financial burden this will be on the government and then a decision will be taken,” said the written reply given to the protestors, adding a committee will be formed to consider the issue and a decision arrived at in the next 1.5 months. “The committee will have representation from the government and from Kisan Sabha,” said Ajit Nawale of the Sabha. 
 
 The state also assured organisers of the march that farm land would not be acquired without consent for projects, including the Mumbai-Nagpur Samruddhi expressway and the bullet train project.
 
 While Mumbai police said 15,000 farmers and tribals had participated in the 180km march, the organisers pegged the figure at a minimum of 40,000. Farmer discontent has been a challenge for the Fadnavis government, with mass protests culminating in the loan waiver last June.
 
 Most cultivators who marched for seven days in the sweltering heat were Adivasis from the Nashik belt, while others had come in from Thane, Solapur and Sangli. A majority of these Adivasis work on forest land and said they have not been granted ownership rights under the Forest Rights Act.
 
 The government had on Sunday formed a committee of six Cabinet ministers to hold talks with the farmers. Three members of this panel – revenue minister Chandrakant Patil, Public Works Minister Eknath Shinde, who is also guardian minister for Thane, and irrigation minister Girish Mahajan, also guardian minister for Nashik -- addressed the protestors at Azad Maidan after the marathon meeting. 
 
 Participants in the march had reached Azad Maidan early on Monday morning, having walked from Chunabhatti’s Somaiya Maidan in the wee hours to avoid disrupting traffic and affecting students headed for their SSC exams.
 
 
