PUNE:   says he is treating his maiden appearance at the   like any other tournament.
 
 
 "I am playing for the first time at Indian Wells. But the level at which I am playing, I can't think about this being my first Masters. I am treating this as any other tournament and not think too much about it. Of course, every win gives a great boost to my confidence," the 25-year-old Delhi lad said after scoring the biggest win of his career, beating World No. 12   of France 6-4, 6-4 in the second round of the ATP 1000 Series tournament in California, USA, on Sunday.
 
 Bhambri’s words can be attributed to humility and a tunnel-vision.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 For, Indian Wells is the first of nine premier tournaments on the ATP Tour and it offers total prize money of $7.9 million for the men's and women's event combined.
 
 Bhambri played his first Masters level tournament in Miami as a wild card in 2009, the year he won the Australian Open boys' singles title and became the World No. 1 junior. This time, he entered the main draw through the qualifying rounds.
 
 By reaching the third round, he is already richer by $47,170, which translates to Rs. 30.5 lakh approximately. And there is the small matter of earning 45 ATP points, besides the 16 that he accrued from qualifying.
 
 To put it in context, a $50,000 ATP Challenger event awards the winner $7,200 and 80 points. That is, Bhambri would have had to win six Challengers and he would have still fallen short by a couple of lakhs of rupees.
 
 Bhambri broke Pouille early to race to a 4-1 lead before the Frenchman narrowed the gap. It was too little too late as Bhambri comfortably closed out the set.
 
 The second set saw the players trade early breaks but Bhambri raised his game up a notch to force three breakpoints in the ninth game. He eventually converted the fourth before serving out the match in the following game at love.
 
 "I have been playing a lot of top players. The early break calmed the nerves a bit. I stayed aggressive throughout the match, never took my foot off the pedal," the World No. 110 said.
 
 Bhambri's strong serving proved to be a vital stat of the hour and 19-minute match. He had a first serve percentage of 75 and won 73 percent of his first serve points. He won 53 percent of second serve points. The corresponding numbers for the second set were even better -- he won 70 percent of his first serve points and 80 points on his second serves.
 
 "Good serving days obviously helps," Bhambri quipped.
 
 He credited his coach   for the improvement in his game and fitness. "I have been working with him for the last six years. This time particularly I had a very good off season in Bangkok. I am still trying to make some changes. The key is to execute what I have been trying in practice. The big part, however, is to believe in doing the right thing and staying positive," he said.
 
 Next up for Bhambri is World No. 21 Sam Querrey with a career-high ranking of 11. The 6-foot 6-inch Querrey has 10 titles under his belt and last year became the first American since Andy Roddick in 2009 to reach the Wimbledon semifinals.
 
 The Indian has a day off before he tackles the 18th seed. He insisted fatigue will not be a factor. "No problem, I have a day off. And I won in two sets (both the first and second rounds). I am feeling good," Bhambri said.
 
 What would be his approach against such a top player? "Playing freely again. I have nothing to lose, only so much more to gain. He is a very good player, had an incredible season last year."
 
 
