CHANDIGARH: The   government on Tuesday gave an assurance to the   that no   registered against protesters for their alleged role in the violence during the February 2016   pro-quota agitation would be withdrawn. Haryana advocate general   gave an undertaking to the court on this.

 
 In February, the Haryana government had promised Jat groups leading the reservation stir that violence-related cases registered against Jats would be withdrawn. In line with this, out of total 2,107 cases registered during the February 2016 violence, the state government submitted an application before several trial courts seeking withdrawal of 405 cases.
 
 
 
 
 When the matter came up for hearing before a division bench, comprising acting Chief Justice A K Mittal and Justice T S Dhindsa. on Tuesday, senior advocate Anupam Gupta, who is assisting the court as amicus curiae, strongly objected to Haryana government’s move to withdraw prosecution of case. He also referred to several media reports regarding the state's assurance.
 
 Gupta told the court that he had no objection to withdrawal of cases of minor offences, but the Haryana government wanted to withdraw cases which were termed of "extremely serious nature" by the Prakash Singh committee that had also probed the violence. However, the cases of arson or dacoity cannot be allowed to be withdrawn. Gupta gave the break-up of cases in various districts which were termed of "extremely serious nature" by the committee, and which were now sought to be withdrawn by the Haryana government.
 
 Haryana advocate general Baldev Raj Mahajan informed the court that the state government had initiated the process to withdraw in accordance with the Section 321 of Code of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) and any withdrawal would be done only due after the concerned trial court's go-ahead. Gupta, however, argued that since the matter was being monitored by the HC, the state should desist from withdrawing the cases.
 
 When the bench asked the state about this, the AG gave an undertaking that state would not pursue the applications filed before different district courts for withdrawal of the cases. The case would now come up for hearing on July 11.
 
 The matter had reached before the high court in the wake of suo motu cognizance taken by high court two benches regarding the failure of law and order machinery in Haryana during the Jat agitation.
 
 
 
