NEW DELHI: The groundswell of horror against gory gang rape and murder of an eight-year-old in Jammu and Kashmir’s   and the gangrape of another minor in Uttar Pradesh's   grew across the country on Thursday and Friday as outrage reminiscent of the Nirbhaya protests erupted on social media. Here are the top developments from yesterday and today:

 
 1. Congress chief Rahul Gandhi led a midnight candlelight march to India Gate in the national capital to protest the Kathua and Unnao rape cases with the party leaders alleging that the daughters of the country were not safe in the Narendra Modi regime.
 
 2. Rahul was joined by his sister Priyanka and her husband Robert Vadra as well as scores of Congress leaders, party workers and students, who shouted slogans against the Modi government and the state governments in Uttar Pradesh and Jammu & Kashmir, demanding urgent action.
 
 3. During the march, Priyanka rebuked the unruly crowd, saying people should “at least respect the cause” for which they had come together.
 
 “Nobody will push each other,” said a visibly miffed Priyanka.
 
 “You should all know the reason for which you have gathered here. If you cannot behave, go home. Now, all of you will silently walk,” she said.
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 4. Hours after this protest by Congress leaders, the CBI - at 4:30 am this morning - detained Unnao gang rape-accused   MLA Kuldeep Singh Sengar.
 
 5. Later in the morning, a "deeply, deeply disturbed" Maneka Gandhi said that she intends to ask for the death penalty for those who rape children below 12 years of age. "Am deeply, deeply disturbed by the rape case in Kathua, and all the recent rape cases. I and the ministry intend to bring an amendment to the POCSO Act asking for the death penalty for the rape of children below 12 years of age," said Maneka. POCSO is the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.
 
 6. The 8-year-old's father Muhammad Yusuf Pujwala too today called for the death penalty. "I miss my daughter every day. Those responsible for killing my daughter should be hanged till death," said Pujwala. 
 
 7. Meanwhile, the Supreme Court (SC) said today it will, of its own accord, examine the horrific Kathua rape incident, provided advocates presented the facts of the case to the court in writing. In Delhi, a clutch of lawyers who practice in the SC, requested an SC bench take suo moto cognisance of the horrific incident. The lawyers said they would put together the facts of the case in writing for the SC.
 
 8. Today, J&K's director general of police SP Vaid said nothing could be worse than the Kathua gangrape-murder. "It is a very heinous crime, it can't get worse than this. The Special Investigation Team has done a very professional job and filed chargesheet, now we hope justice will be done," said Vaid
 
 9. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which is in power in J&K along with the BJP, has directed all its ministers, legislators and senior leaders to be present for a special meeting tomorrow in Srinagar at 11 am, likely to discuss the Kathua incident.
 
 10. Yesterday afternoon, Union minister VK Singh was the first one from the government to express his anguish at the horrific incident."We have failed her as humans. But she will not be denied justice," tweeted Singh about the eight-year-old.
 
 
 
 
