CHENNAI: A 23-member team is set to represent India at Perth in Australia in the World Under 24 Ultimate Championships to be held just a few days from now.

 Organised by the  , the showcase game will see India lock horns with home team Australia on January 7 in a game of ultimate. A non-contact self-refereed team sport played with a flying disc or Frisbee, the game is recognised by the International Olympic Committee.
 
 Ultimate Frisbee is a team sport played by over 5 million players worldwide. Played in India since 2008, cities like Chennai, Bangalore, Delhi, Mumbai, Surat and Ahmedabad host national tournaments almost every other month. Indian players have also competed in international competitions, and most recently finished 5th at the World Championships of Beach Ultimate in France, in July 2017.
 
 Played with a flying disc, Ultimate is played with men and women play on the same team. “For a country like ours where gender equality is a raging discussion, a mixed team sends a strong message to the globe. Both genders have an equal playing field here,” said  , president,  .
 
 In a bid to make it there, the team started a campaign on crowdfunding platform Ketto. With little support from the public and substantial funding from BookASmile, the charity initiative of BookMyShow, they have managed to raise little over Rs 28 lakh to date.
 
 Farzana Cama Balpande, head of BookASmile said, “We are delighted to support Ultimate Frisbee in India and the Indian team. India is a land of abundant talent and we are happy to be partnering with organizations such as Ultimate Players Association of India that are relentlessly working in unconventional spaces towards unearthing and nurturing such talent and their dreams and aspirations.”
 
 The team has managed to support itself from their individual savings and borrowings from other enthusiasts. “We don’t get assistance from the state or central government as we are not a recognized sport here. We are working towards and it and have spoken to the authorities,” said Narayanan.
 
 While half the team left for Perth on Thursday morning, the remaining members will join them in a day. The team needs another Rs 3 lakh to break even. “A little more support from the public will help us sail through. The players and coaches have put in their own money. Community members have been kind enough to fund shoes, visa etc” said Narayanan.
 
