UDAIPUR: A pall of gloom descended on   of   area in   where three boys, who had gone to bathe, drowned in the Bagliya Deh zone of the Gambhiri River on Sunday. Another boy, the fourth, had a miraculous escape after being helped by a passer-by who jumped into the river and pulled out the boy in time. “Two of the deceased were real brothers while the third one was their paternal cousin who drowned while trying to save each other. A case has been registered under section 174 of the CrPc,” said  , SHO Kotwali police station.

 The deceased were identified as Riyaz (16) and Danish (13) - sons of Abdul Latif, and their aunt’s son   (15) while Nadeem’s brother Moin (13) was rescued. According to family sources, the four boys had left home saying that they were going to the madrassa. however, they changed their mind and went to the Bagliya Deh area to take a dip in the river. 
 
 While bathing, Nadeem didn’t realize he had gone far ahead in deep waters and as he began to sink, he cried for help. His brother and two cousins rushed to help, unfortunately, they sank with him. Raju, a youth who worked for Riyaz's grandfather, happened to be in the same location and he jumped into the river to save the kids. He pulled out Moin first and the others - one by one. However, three of them had died by then. The bodies were taken to Sanwaliya Hospital where autopsies were conducted.
 
 Family members of the three boys are in a state of shock. Women in the household wailed over the shocking deaths of their children. Meanwhile, at the hospital, local political dignitaries and many others arrived to extend their condolences.
 
 Grief hit the locality as the bodies arrived home in ambulance. Large number of people gathered outside their grandfather Shaukat Ali’s home. According to the residents, the senior citizen is known for his simplicity and is a respected name in the area. His son Latif had only two sons, Riyaz and Danish whose death was a jolt for the entire family. Shaukat’s daughter lived in Baral in Vijaynagar and her sons Nadeem and Moin had come to their grandfather's home, when the incident happened. 
 
 
