JAISALMER: The distict police have written a letter to   embassy regarding   who had illegally gone to Pakistan and returned to India on fake passport and visa in the name of Gulam   from Atari train route. The police have sought information from the embassy about the local guaranter. 

 Through a writ petition before the high court, the police have requested for dismissal of bail to Hassam alias Gulam Mustafa in this serious case. Apart from this visa of Hassam expired on Aug 31, 2017 therefore police is in process of deporting him to Pakistan. 
 
 SP   said as per information found in the inquiry of Hassam he had gone to Pak in 1990 and in 2003 by giving rs 1000 he got the citizenship of Pak and got is ID card made in th name of gulam Mustafa son of peer bux resident of ghotki. Mustafa in 2010 got passport made by giving rs 40000 t his close relative   baloch resident of meerpur Khas. In 2015 the passport got expired and damaged in rains and by giving rs 5000 to Fateh he got new passport and bribe of rs 5000. In Dec 2016 he applied for visa for India and he got in March 2017. He left Pak on April 3and came to India from Atari train route. From there he came to Delhi, jaipur and jaisalmer. 
 
 Yadav said although hasam 27 years ago had gone to Pak from India and took citizenship of Pak and got fake passport made through brokers. To get into the details of this police have written letter to Pak embassy and asked for detailed information as who are the brokers in Pak who helped hasam in getting the passport and ho was the person who filled form as guarantor in India and helped him to come to India. 
 
 SP said police at its level is investigating as who was person at shergarh in Jodhpur dist who played the role of gauranter in India. As visa has expired and he has come on Pak passport in such situation process is on to deport him back to Pak. Along with it has been requested high court to cancel is bail petition. Yadav said there has been information that girls from here are taken to Pak and get them married and looking to this police have written letter to Atari and munabao check post to intensively check such passengers.
 
 
