"This is seriously the biggest crowd I have seen so far," was the verdict, as   brought his performance at   to a close, for a crowd that had been won over as soon as he began. As he took to the stage at  , Hindu's annual cultural fest, not an inch of free space could be seen on the college's sizeable sports ground. "I am not going to ask you guys how you are doing, because I can see that you are doing effing good," Amit stated. And things only got better from there.

  
  
 
 
  In possibly the biggest fest that DU has witnessed so far this year, Amit and his troupe's high-octane performance kept the crowd engaged, as they performed for their "legs" and "ears". And despite the size of the crowd, the gig ended on a musical high and not because of broken barricades or rowdy spectators.
 
  
 
  With four other singers present on stage, Amit owned the stage with the first song itself when he performed 'Dilli Dilli' with his band. "It is fantastic to see this energy, sorry we were a bit late, there were some technical problems. We apologise for that but you guys have been patient so keep the energy up because the party has just begun. The first half of the show is for ears, and the second half is for legs. We have many talented singers on stage, we will listen to them first and then we will break a leg, actually many legs," he said to the crowd.
 
  
  Striking a musical chord: Students gave a vocal test at the event as Amit asked them to sing a few songs for him
 
 
 
 
 
  As the first part of the performance got over with songs like 'Pareshaan', 'Iktara' and 'Love You Zindagi', the singer performed songs from four regions of the country during the second half. Donning the traditional pagdi, the singer began the second half with a song from Rajasthan and then went on to Gujarat and did a little garba on the stage. This was followed by Maharashtra and finally Punjab along with some bhangra moves. "After Punjab, it is time for 'Ud-daa Punjab'," said the singer, sending the students into a frenzy.
 
  
  Amit Trivedi
 
 
 
 
  Apart from grooving to Amit's beats, students also gave a vocal test at the concert. There was a segment when the singer tested of the crowd's singing ability. "Aap log kar loge na? We are not going to sing the next song, we will show you the lyrics and you will have to sing it. Hum aise teachers hain jo cheating karne dete hain," Trivedi said. The audience then sang 'Iktara' while the lyrics were displayed on the screen. Madhav Raj, a second-year student of Sanskrit (Hons) at Hindu College told us, "It was awesome. I was surprised when I saw the massive crowd, waiting since morning for his performance. Our fest once again proved that it is one of the best fests that DU witnesses each year."
 
  
  Students gathered in large numbers to attend the concert
 
   , Finance Minister, Hindu College Parliament, added, "As I was part of the organising team, I was quite tensed about today's event. But seeing thousands of people jumping and dancing madly on ' ' and 'Dilli Dilli', made my day. It was definitely one of the best concerts I have ever attended."
 
  
  
 
  Students from other colleges also seemed pretty excited to attend the fest. Ravi Gupta, a student of  , added, "This is seriously the biggest crowd I have seen so far. Jitne songs perform karein, sab badhiya thay. Ek baar bhi aisa nahi laga ki performance aur better ho sakti thi."
 
 
 
  
 
