NAGPUR: With no surprises in store,   Hindi   on Monday was a ‘piece of cake’ for many. Experts believe that the passing percentage for   and Composite Hindi will be good this year as the paper was student-friendly.

 Sumati Bisen, senior Hindi teacher at Saraswati Vidyalaya, said that every segment was easy to crack and didn’t pose any challenge. Moreover, the new paper pattern which is being followed for the second year now has made things simpler for students.
 
 “The questions based on stories from the textbook were asked directly without any reference about the passage. But the board has introduced the comprehension pattern since last year, just like in English. Now, children can pen down answers confidently by picking out answers from given passage itself with less probability of missing out details,” she said.
 
 “The grammar and sentence translation part was easy too. Overall, the paper was very interesting and the students didn’t have to rack their brains to solve correctly,” she added.
 
 Student   said, “The paper was less complicated than the one I appeared for during the pre-board exam. I was in my comfort zone for three hours. I had fun solving the paper as I knew all the answers in my head soon after reading the questions. I wrote my paper with a cool mind and maintained speed from the beginning, which helped me solve it much before the deadline.”
 
 Bisen said every year, some slow writers face problems in completing the paper and time management plays a key role here.   was among the ones who personally found the paper to be lengthy, but at the same believed that three hours were sufficient.
 
 Student   said, “I had an intuition that the paper would be easy. Everything was from the syllabus and I was well acquainted with the topics which helped me write the paper well.”
 
 Another student   said, “Grammar was a little confusing, but the topics for essay and letter were very basic. I managed to solve all the questions.”
 
 Paper rating
 
 Toughness: Easy
 
 Questions’ relevance: Straightforward
 
 Length: Proper
 
 
