For the past 32 years, every time   sings “Chitthi Aayee Hai”, from the 1986 film ‘Naam’ that catapulted him to stardom, audiences go silent, every eye moistens and every heart longs for a lost home. But Udhas, has never tired singing it and feels a surge of emotions each time the popular number is requested. Ahead of his concert in the city, the vocalist in an interview with Samhati Mohapatra , talks about the beauty of ghazals, the secret of popularising it among non-Urdu listeners and his rapport with the south Indian audience.

 
 
 When I came to Chennai in the mid-1980s, to promote my albums ‘Nayaab’ and ‘Aafreen’, the concerts — including one at the   — weresoldout.Now,when Ilook back, I feel such a response wasbecauseof the musicthatI had created, which probably crossed all boundaries and touched hearts. My approach to poetry is not difficult Urdu, but simple Hindustani — a mix of Hindi and Urdu — which has made my music accessible. Urdu certainly is not easy for a Tamil speaking audience to understand. But with my simple lyrics and melody, I think my music is very hummable.
 
 
 
 
 When I started my career in 1979, there wasn’t much interest in ghazals among people. Poets like Mirza Ghalib wrotein a mix of Persian,Arabic and Urdu, that was difficultfor thecommon man todecipher. I started reading various poets and my attempts to simplify the language culminated in ghazals like “Aap jinke kareeb hote hain, wo bade khushnaseeb hote hain”. The lyrics were by  , a poet who also wrote in the contemporary language. That’s when I started collaborating with contemporary poets like Nida Fazli, Mumtaz Rashid, Zafar Gorakhpuri, Quisar, Bashir Badr and  .
 
 
 
 
 A ghazal demands certain rules, rhyming and metres. Ghazals in Gujarati, Marathi and Punjabi are written in the same format as Urdu. But when you translate, it is difficult to maintain the same appeal and emotions. For instance, works of the famous Persian poet Omar Khayyam have been translated into nearly 90 languages, but only when you read him in Urdu, do you understand the nuances. But yes, translation is also necessary to popularise the genre. Personally, I would be happy to record a Tamil ghazal one of these days.
 
 
 
 The entire revenue stream hasdriedup.Earlier thesaleof cassettes and CDs used to bring enough money to invest in new projects, unlike today. No ghazal albums are being made anymore. A few singles may be popular on YouTubeor social media, but they are not remunerative, and that is dissuading youngsters from singing ghazals.Our only meansof survival is live concerts.
 
 
 
 
 Iam notinterestedin remakes. I would rather do something new and creative. Remaking may be Bollywood’s success mantra, but it will fizzle out soon.
 
 
 
 
 Ghazals have been around for almost 400 years. Begum Akhtar revived it in the late 1960s. Between 1981 and 1990, ghazal albums sold more than Hindi film songs. After this came the slump.
 
 But, ghazals are here to stay. I wouldn’t be surprised if some singer comes up with a new sound and approach to revive ghazals. The genre is one of the most appealing forms of music because of its combination of music, poetry and singing.
 
 
