My daughter is ready to go back to school. We are not going to run away and give others a chance to point fingers at us. All we demand is proper action against the accused dance teacher. My daughter had asked me on Wednesday when she can re-join her school. We will choose a reasonable date at the earliest.

 We are doing everything in our capacity to bring her out of the trauma. My husband had come down here to be with his daughter. He will resume work on Thursday. She has recounted the incident before police officers on Tuesday without any visible trauma. She, though, keeps harping on one question: “Is the dance teacher still around?” When we assure her that he is nowhere to be found near her — and everyone will ensure that he never comes near her — she looks confident. She, though, misses me. Each time I am stepping out of the house to manage the legal matters, she is repeatedly calling me up to talk to me. I try, each time, to fill her mind with positive thoughts.
 
 
  
 
 Several of my family members have studied in this school. We have always aspired that our daughter receives convent education. My daughter has studied here from nursery I. This is the school she is most familiar with. After receiving death threats from the accused she did not open up about the abuses she suffered from Class I. What was initially restricted to the dance classes, soon began to be repeated even in her activity classes. I hope the school helps in protecting her from all those constant fears in the near future.
 
 Coming to the question of our demands from the school, I would like to clarify that it was not us who had asked the parents to organize a protest outside school. We will never support vandalism. But there is now a whisper campaign alleging I had staged and managed the protest. This is what pains me.
 
 I had gone to the principal last Thursday and my sister was with me. We never informed anyone — not even my daughter’s classteacher about the incidents. The principal summoned both the dance teacher and my daughter and she repeated how she was fondled and molested by this teacher. He flatly denied my daughter’s statement. The principal, though, said she would look in to it.
 
 The same evening my daughter revealed more chilling facts and me, along with her father, decided to approach the principal with a written application. But as guardians from higher classes barged in, we did not get the chance to even place the application. Till date, the application lies with the police. We never demanded the removal of male teachers; on the contrary, we want to praise her music teacher (a male) and her former dance teacher (also a male). I do not blame anyone in the school for what had happened with my daughter other than the dance teacher.
 
 (As told to  )
 
