Kozhikode: After concluding that the   has been brought under control, the state health department on Monday chalked out steps to prevent chances of a second wave of Nipah.

 A high-level review meeting chaired by health minister   at the district collectorate here mooted steps in this regard, including setting up a permanent isolation ward at the   government medical college (KGMC) hospital.
 
 “The Nipah virus infection is now under control. It has been established that all the Nipah cases reported so far are connected to a single source. But as a matter of precaution we should be prepared to prevent chances of a second wave of the infection,” the minister said.
 
 She said the department has been mapping all persons who have come into contact with the infected persons. These persons are being monitored for any symptoms to prevent chances of them coming into contact with others, thereby causing a second wave of Nipah infection.
 
 “We have already set up an isolation ward at KGMC for treatment of suspected and confirmed Nipah cases. But we have also identified a building for housing the isolation ward and it would have ventilators, exclusive laboratory, portable X- ray machine and other facilities exclusively for Nipah cases. Later we will set up a permanent isolation ward at the KGMC hospital and also at all the other medical colleges in the state,” she added. Also, a dedicated round- the-clock control room (0495- 2381000) has been set up for people in the line list to report if they develop suspected symptoms of the disease confidentially.
 
 She advised the people in the line list, and also those hailing from areas where Nipah infection has been reported, to avoid going to crowded places as a precaution.
 
 Stating that prompt and timely action has helped avert a disaster which could have spread rapidly, Shailaja said the government will not lower its guard and will continue intensive monitoring till June 10, taking into account the incubation period of the virus.
 
 Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Sadanandan said the human monoclonal antibody (hmAb), which had shown potential to reduce mortality among Nipah (NiV) patients, will reach the state from Australia within two days.
 
 “Though the trials of the drugs are not completed yet, all the 14 persons who were administered the drug in Australia have been able to survive the infection. We have obtained permission from the Drug Controller General of India to use the drug and a treatment protocol has also been prepared,” Sadanandan added.
 
 Ministers T P Ramakrishnan, A K Saseendran, Kozhikode district collector U V Jose,   district collector Amit Meena, director of health services Dr RL Saritha attended the meeting.
 
 Meanwhile, the   of schools and other educational institutions, including professional colleges, in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts has been postponed to June 5.
 
 
