PUNE:   believes in speaking his mind. The Caribbean cricketer didn’t mince words on Tuesday either, even when he was asked about a subject, frequently passed unanswered by many big names.

 
 
 
 The batsman was here to visit the Blades of Glory cricket museum, was asked whether Indian players should be allowed to play for other countries’ leagues. Gayle said with so many talented players, India should allow its cricketers to play in other countries’ leagues.
 
 “In India there are so many cricketers that a lot of talented cricketers don’t get to play in the  . I would love to see them play for other leagues as well. Some of those talented players won’t get a chance to play for the national team as it is always hard to get into the Indian team. So this way they can get some experience of playing international level cricket,” the T20 specialist said.
 
 
 : 
 Gayle is beyond runs, form and wins. He doesn’t need pile of runs behind him to carry the swag he is known for. The Jamaican, who struggled to score in the latter half of the Indian Premier League after hitting two 50s and a century, said good and bad forms are part of the game and people should move on after the tournament is over.
 
 “There is always a room for improvement. You can't sit and say that I am happy with my performance or not. Given the fact I started well (this season), and then I fell back, but it is just a game of cricket and we should move on,” Gayle said when asked if he was satisfied with his IPL show for   this season.
 
 He donated his Kings XI jersey and the bat with which he scored the unbeaten 104 against Sunrisers Hyderabad to the museum.
 
 Gayle, 38, has the distinction of scoring two triple tons in Test matches and his record in the shorter formats have given him the name, ‘Universe Boss’. When asked how does he manage patience with bravado, he said, “Did you say   of T20 cricket? Well I am boss of all formats.”
 
 “When you play all forms of cricket, you need to make some necessary adjustments as quickly as possible. I have played so much of cricket that it isn't a big problem for me now, but when I had just started, changing over quickly was a bit tentative. At times, to have the timing (right) and make the adjustments from white ball to red-ball cricket was (a little difficult). But as you go on and get some experience, it is just another game,” he explained.
 
 Since he has almost mastered the T20 format, is it time for 100-ball cricket?
 
 “I haven't read about it in detail. A lot of people are talking about it and speculating things, but I will have to wait and see what the actual thing is.”
 
