GHAZIABAD: A   had a narrow escape after two men allegedly attempted to mow him down with their car when he objected to their eve-teasing activities outside a mall in   on Wednesday. The constable, Jeet Pal Singh (48), managed to evade the car but the incident left him with a fracture in his left leg.

 The two men, Deepak and Aveet, who are in their early 20s, were sent to judicial custody on Thursday. While Deepak (24) has dropped out of studies after Class X, his accomplice Aveet (20) is pursuing graduation in a college in Baghpat. The men were in a white-coloured i10 car which has been seized.
 
 Singh is recuperating in   where he underwent a surgery on Wednesday night. According to doctors, Singh also sustained bruises over his body but his condition is stable.
  
  
 The crime took place in front of Pacific Mall on UP-Delhi border on Link Road at around 12.30 pm. According to police, Singh was asked to rush to the spot after police received a call in their control room alleging that a few boys were indulging in eve-teasing on the Link Road.
 
 “I rushed to the spot from   police outpost with a patrolling motorcycle. The boys were in a car. As soon as I signalled them with my hand after reaching the spot, they suddenly pressed the accelerator and tried to flee by running over me. I managed to evade the speeding car but it crashed against my leg. The boys were trying to flee in the direction of Dabur T-point. However, they could not escape after crashing against me. A mob halted their car and overpowered them,” Singh told TOI.
 
 A PCR van that reached the spot soon rushed Singh to hospital. An FIR was registered against the two men in Link Road police station under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 353 (assaulting public servant to deter him from discharging his duties) and 333 (voluntarily causing hurt to public servant) of IPC.
 
 “Police had received a call from a woman that these two men were eve-teasing girls. Both men belong to   of Baghpat. During questioning, the men have told us that they had arrived in Ghaziabad in order to meet a woman friend with whom they were hitherto in touch over phone only,” said SHO, Link Road, Jai Prakash Chaubey.
 
 
