NEW DELHI: In a move to prevent long delays in courts and expedite adoption, the ministry of women and child development ( ) has prepared a proposal to delegate the power to give final approval for enabling adoption of a child to the district magistrate. As of now civil courts have the power to enable adoption after due process. 

 Data with the WCD ministry shows that an estimated 600 to 700 adoption cases are pending in civil courts, many of them for long. The detailed proposal is currently under review of the ministry of law. If there is consensus between the two ministries, the proposal will need   approval and an amendment to the   Justice Act 2015. When asked about the proposal, WCD secretary   said that delay in approval in civil courts has prompted the ministry to explore the option of shifting the power to the level of the district magistrate. 
 
 He pointed that it was felt that the civil courts were already burdened with a vast case load and often matters such as adoption keep getting delayed. “While the law stipulates a timeframe, the delay in approvals stretch way beyond the laid out time period. There are cases pending for years,” the WCD secretary said. The change being sought pertains to section 2, sub section 23 of JJ Act. It is proposed to change the definition of “court” from “civil court” to “court of district magistrate”. 
 
 The view in the WCD ministry is that the change will enable faster disposal of cases and also better scrutiny since the district magistrate is also incharge of the area and has access to all departments in case some verifications or field reports in a case are required urgently. However, to effect this change may not be all that easy for it will require a significant nationwide shift from the existing system involving the role of civil courts in adoption. 
 
 Also it is learnt that voluntary organisations, academicians and activists working in the field of child rights are planning to write to the WCD ministry asking it to reconsider the proposal.
