MUMBAI: The   doesn't lie. Far from lying, camera traps set up at   for the   census have offered a peek into some rarely seen behaviour of animals that inhabit the reserved forest. Now, some of these images have been strung together to make a   film.

 The results of the survey, carried out in the national park and its surrounding areas, revealed that the total number of leopards in the forest stands at 41—a rise of 27 from the previous   conducted in 2015.
 
 
  
  
 
 Sample some of these images captured by camera traps. One shows two leopards mating beneath a huge rock. “The two are like lovers lost in their own world,” said Nikit Surve, a researcher from the Bangalore-based Wildlife Conservation society of India who conducted the leopard census. 
 
 Video footage from yet another camera trap shows two leopards similarly engaged elsewhere. Another camera caught a few wild pigs mating in a muddy puddle. ‘
 
 The mating behaviour of animals in SGNP has rarely been caught on camera in the past. 
 
 Surve also recounted a “rather funny” grab caught on camera. “A sambar deer seems spooked on spotting a camera amid the greenery. As he tries to scoot, his front legs are tilted in one direction while the hind limbs seem bent towards the other,” said Surve. 
 
 “It’s a funny image where the sambar appears to be doing the twist dance.”
 
 The film has a   make a special appearance on spotting the camera and taking an instant liking to it. “This monkey gets too close in the footage and is seen licking the camera.” 
 
 The footage catches fleeting glimpses of other fauna at the national park that stands in the middle of the city. Cameras at Aarey show kingfishers and bulbuls bathe in a watering hole.
 
 Surve, who has trawled through the footage from all cameras, is puzzled about one “inexplicable” image. “There’s this barking deer caught on one of the cameras. He can be seen sticking his tongue out, stretching it right up to its eye. God knows what this guy is trying to do.”
 
 
