Yesteryear actress Savithri was a gem of the Telugu film industry, known for her beauty and acting skills showcased in movies like ‘Mayabazaar’ and ‘Missamma’. She was fascinating in life and remained so even after she passed away. So much so, that filmmaker   has filmed a biopic on the actress starring   as Savithri and   as  . Co-starring  ,   and several other actors in lead roles, ‘Mahanati’ which will be released as ‘Nadigaiyar Thilagam’ in Tamil too, on May 9, is a film that is much-awaited. 

  Before the film’s release, the makers have been busy promoting the film vigorously, even making social media pages for it, posting stills from the film and facts about Savithri that few knew of:
 
    was a race car enthusiast and at one point had the highest collection of vintage cars in Chennai. 
 
  Mahanati Savithri was the only actress to achieve equal pay as male superstars like NTR & ANR.
 
  Savithri’s marriage to Gemini Ganeshan got revealed to the public when she accidentally signed the Lux contract as ‘Savithri Ganeshan’. 
 
  
 
 
  Savithri was born in Guntur, which was then under Madras Presidency, and her father passed away when she was 6.
 
  Proficient in dancing and acting since a young age, Savithri would dab on makeup to look older than 12 when she would audition for films. 
 
  Savithri was known for her fondness of jewellery and clothes, and she kept little control of her spending. She was also known for having a kind heart and opening her home to those in need. 
 
  She controversially married Gemini Ganeshan at a tender age. Ganeshan was already married with four daughters and involved in an affair with Pushpavalli. 
 
  Savithri and Ganeshan had a daughter and a son, but Ganeshan also had two daughters with Pushpavalli while he was with Savithri. 
 
  Her downfall begun around 1969 when she turned alcoholic and her marriage to Gemini Ganeshan had begun falling apart. During financially difficult times, it was the late Dasari Narayana Rao who remained her staunch supporter, even making movies specifically to help her stay afloat. 
 
  Savithri died at the age of 47, after being in a coma for 19 months. 
 
