 and what is being in love like? No two people would have the same answer. We ask a cross section of people from different fields what love means to them and how it has influenced their art.

 
 
  
 
 
 Love is one of the most powerful and intense emotions known to humans. There are different kinds of love, each of which activates different parts of the brain. When someone is smitten by romantic love, it is the sub cortical dopaminergic pathways of the brain which are activated; more specifically, the right ventral segmental area. They are the brain’s reward circuits, which is why someone in love feels like seeing or listening to their lover again and again. This is also the reason why people in love often act without logic. It’s also why people experience depression in the event of a break-up.
 \
 Also, when you are in love, the neurotransmitter of the brain called dopamine increases while serotonin decreases. This is why people tend to lose sleep and appetite during the initial flush of love, since serotonin is in charge of all those. The neurotransmitter called oxytocin is the bonding hormone in our body, responsible for inducing feelings of attachment even after sex.
 
 
 ctress 
 
 When you are truly in love, the couple become more of a holistic entity, rather than a man and a woman. As a team, they find fun in doing everything together and try to uplift each other, thereby bringing completeness to the concept of ‘being in a relationship’. The song Uyirin Nadhiye from Mayaanadhi was all about how a very young couple have the best moments of their lives together. I remember telling the writer, Syam Pushkaran, how tough it must be for people who have spent such special moments of their coming-of-age years to let go of each other. However, as an artiste, it is my passion towards work that matters most to me, not any particular emotion.
 
 
 
 If there is love in your life, nothing can hamper you. But the love need not necessarily be between a man and a woman. Love originates from a biological urge, and it is artistes who defined it as eternal or divine, and elevated it to a refined human value called ‘pranayam’, from its crude animalistic form. When this emotion called love is spread in society, the world becomes a beautiful place to live in.
 
 
 
 
 Love is an intoxicating kind of meditation for me... A hallowed prayer... A mysterious kind of euphoria. At times, it’s a kind of endless search for me, always within me, and with me. I’m in love as much as how someone in love can fuse into the other. My eyes are open and directed towards the light of that love. I polish and renew myself in love. I hold the love which spills from me in my palms and fill my poems with it. I dream of a world that resonates with love. I plant deep kisses on the lips of the lover, none of which can be taken back. I see my face, the unclothed lover that I am, in the radiance of love.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My life revolves around love. It is such an integral part of my life that before starting my dance classes, I tell my students to recite the line - Snehamaanu Akhilasaramoozhiyil. It is love that sustains this world. However, I was enriched by this greater understanding not through humans, but through the selfless and unconditional love of animals. The ways in which this understanding has helped me as an artiste and an individual is immense, and for me, love can be equated with my breath. When your love is valued, it can be tremendously gratifying. Just like love impacts every other aspect in your life, it reflects on your art too.
 
 
 
 
 
 Sharing your mind with the other is freedom, giving yourself to the other is freedom. I believe that love cannot be defined; it exists in fluid and 360 degree dimensions, and cannot be structured. Love can be like a chameleon, it could transform its colours faster than the speed of light. Do not give advice or suggestions to anyone in love. Lovers don't believe in caste, creed, religion or region. Love is secular and love contends with ultimate plurality in oneness. Love in romance is mesmerising and that is an incredible experience. Live like a romantic, always in love. There are no rules in art and love!
 
 
