Bengalureans, on an average, watch a lot of new movies in a year — some as low as 20, but most of us over 30-40 films. With such a high consumption rate for movies, filmmakers try their best to stand out from the crowd. A few do, while others fail to do so. And then come along directors, such as  , who dare to pull off a radical idea such as   — a film with no dialogues.

 The thriller, starring  , Sananth Reddy, Deepak Paramesh, Anish Padman, Shashank and Remya Nambeesan, is all set for a worldwide release on Friday and has been making news for all the right reasons. One of the reason is the nostalgia it revokes, being compared to the 1987 classic  , a black comedy sans dialogues, directed by Singeetam Srinivasa Rao and featuring Kamal Haasan and  . 
 The ageless movie holds a special place in many Bengalureans’ hearts, considering that most of its scenes were shot in the city. The film also enjoyed a 35-week theatrical run here.
 
 Although a few more silent movies have come out between then and now, Pushkara Mallikarjun, who will be distributing Mercury in the state along with actor-director  , considers Mercury to be the best one yet, after Pushpaka Vimana. 
 
 He says, “When I heard about Mercury and its concept, I was excited because Pushpaka Vimana is still fresh in our minds, even after having released three decades ago. To think that another such film will release soon definitely makes everyone curious. Pushpaka Vimana had no dialogues, but the screenplay was so engaging that we still remember the movie clearly. When I watched Mercury, it touched my heart and reminded me that for a film to connect with the audience, what is important is a gripping story, solid actors and a director who can handle the subject well. Mercury has all this and more.”
 
 Drawing comparisons between Mercury and Pushpaka Vimana, Pushkar says, “What is common between the two movies is that they are both thrillers, but there ends the similarity. While Pushpaka Vimana was slow-paced, subtle and even funny in parts, Mercury is an edge-of-the-seat thriller, in which you’ll often catch yourself involuntarily holding your breath. The music also plays a bigger role in Mercury, more than it did in the classic, and this movie will, without a doubt, stand out from the rest.”
 
