NEW DELHI: In a move that could further deepen the   between   and  ,   of the   of Delhi assembly   privilege proceedings for “contempt of House” against chief secretary   after he   its   on alleged irregularities in a cooperative bank. The committee, headed by deputy speaker Rakhi Birla, also recommended action against JB Singh, secretary-cum-registrar of cooperative societies, and his predecessor Shurbir Singh, who also gave the meeting a miss.

 One of the members also proposed a privilege motion against the IAS association for “issuing instructions to the officers not to attend the meeting”. However, the IAS association claimed that no officer had been asked to boycott any assembly meeting, which, incidentally, was kept open for the media. This, sources said, was a violation of rules, which state that “all persons other than members of the committee, officers and such other persons whose services are required should withdraw whenever the committee starts deliberating”.
 
 The meeting was called to discuss an alleged banking fraud of Rs 100 crore, carried out through different branches of the Delhi Nagrik Sahkari Bank. “The alleged fraud was detected in audit reports of the bank and also by the Reserve Bank of India in 2013 where it was found that, since 2010, different amounts of loans were released to different individuals and commercial entities on the basis of forged documents,” a source said. “The meeting was scheduled for Tuesday, but postponed to Wednesday on the request of the CS,” AAP functionary Saurabh Bharadwaj, who is also a member of the committee, said.
 
 “We rescheduled the meeting, but the chief secretary did not come even at 5pm. Two other officers also did not appear for the crucial meet,” Bharadwaj said. The meeting finally began at 5:15 pm. Soon after that, a 15-minute break was called, but the officers didn’t arrive even then, a source said. 
 
 “All members have recommended to chairperson Rakhi Birla to initiate   for contempt of House against Anshu Prakash, J B Singh and Shurbir Singh for skipping the meeting and also for the IAS association for asking officers to boycott the House proceedings. The chairperson of the panel said she would think over it,” Bharadwaj said.
 
 During the meeting of House panel, members were told that a message was conveyed to Prakash’s office, but his staff said he was not well. Last month, the Delhi assembly’s petitions committee had recommended “criminal proceedings” against two IAS officers for providing “help and aid to the corrupt” in connection with the alleged irregularities in the Delhi Nagrik Sahkari Bank.
 
 The panel had recommended that the chief secretary submit an action-taken report in the House within a month.
 
 “The chief secretary should initiate criminal proceedings against Shurbir Singh and J B Singh for their acts of commission and omission to help and aid the corrupt,” the committee had said in its report.
 
 
