Christin.MathewPhilip 

 Bengaluru: Do not treat dogs like dogs, treat them like humans! This is precisely what the government-run Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is reiterating in its new luggage policy released last week. The utility has directed its crew to consider a pet dog as an adult passenger and allow it to travel by the bus by collecting regular fare.
 
 “We had been receiving complaints from passengers that our crew refuse to allow pets on buses. We wanted to change it and make our staff and services pet-friendly. So we decided to collect fare on par with passengers for pets travelling by our buses,” a senior KSRTC official said. 
 
 KSRTC, which is headquartered in Bengaluru, has a fleet of around 8,000 buses that ply to different parts of the state and also neighbouring states.
 
 The copy of the luggage-related circular accessed by TOI states that passengers will not be allowed to get their pet dogs onboard if they refuse to pay the full fare. 
 
 Child fare for cats, birds
 
 The bus crew can collect child fare for pets such rabbits, puppies, cats, birds and caged birds. “The revision in the luggage fare has been effected keeping in view of the logistical issues that our staff face in the districts,” KSRTC managing director S R Umashankar said. 
 
 However, onboarding pets comes with a few riders. It is the responsibility of the owner to ensure that the canine is leashed and handled throughout the journey. The owner should ensure that there is no harm caused by the pet to the crew and fellow passengers and no damage is caused to the luggage belonging to other passengers, the circular states.
 
 Pay more if baggage weighs over 30 kg
 
 There is also a limit imposed on the luggage that can be carried free of cost, a la airlines. According to the circular, an adult passenger can carry personal luggage up to 30 kg free of cost and a child passenger is entitled to carry up to 15 kg. 
 
 Those carrying more than the prescribed limit of luggage (which includes suitcases and bags) will be charged Rs 10 per unit (for every additional 20 kg) per stage (distance of 6.5 km). The luggage should be weighed prior to boarding. In case of non-availability of a weighing machine, the crew can make a rough estimate and collect fare accordingly.
 
 
