CHENNAI: A derogatory post about   E V Ramasasamy by   leader   — which he later deleted — has triggered a debate on proliferation of statues in Tamil Nadu.

 Statues of leaders have often been source of social tension and caste clashes in the state. Every political party, social outfit and caste group has installed scores of them as a mark of veneration of leaders, but the rate at which they have proliferated has only made it easy for miscreants to vandalise them at will to foment trouble.
 
 “One can argue it is the government’s responsibility to protect statues as they are social and public assets. The argument is valid too, but it is not practical for any government or police force to protect all the statues in a state like Tamil Nadu. The government’s primary task is to provide protection to the lives of people. The available force is not adequate for that even,” said retired DGP and senior security adviser in the Union ministry of home affairs K Vijaykumar.
 
 A few years ago, violence broke out in a TN town when a finger of a statue fell down owing to natural wear and tear. But rumours spread that someone had damaged it. It took several days for tempers to cool, said Vijaykumar.
 
 At the height of caste clashes in southern TN in the 90s, when more than 50 statues of caste leaders were vandalised, leaving a trail of bloodshed in the process, Vijaykumar exhorted communities that had installed statues to also provide security personnel for their protection. At the peak of tension, youngsters volunteered themselves to stand night-long guard for statues. It did not last long though.
 
 As the volunteers got jaded in a matter of days, the administration decided to cage and grill statues to protect them from vandals. Today they are standing symbols of society’s intolerance. Though it prevented miscreants from damaging statues and garlanding them with slippers, cages were no protection from trouble makers who threw thrash on statues.
 
 Interestingly, many statues don’t resemble the leaders even by wildest of imagination. The unveiling of an apology for a statue of former chief minister   recently by her party colleagues is a case in point. The   leadership has now decided to replace it.
 
 Lack of stature of present-day leaders and their attempts to live on the reflected glory of past leaders, who have captured the imagination of people, is the primary reason for proliferation of their statues, opined former bureaucrat M G Devasahayam. “Statues are often installed for caste, social and political gains. Successive governments have also encouraged the statue culture to appease caste groups. Statues have often served the purpose of caste and communal mobilisation,” said Devasahayam.
 
 Statues that have already come up cannot be removed, but it is high time the government put an end to proliferation of new statues, said Devasahayam.
 
 He felt an easier way to protect the statues would be to create statue parks in every district and provide adequate protection to them. “Statues of all leaders could be installed in such parks. They should be works of art and the government should come out with guidelines to regulate them,” said Devasahayam.
 
 Setting up statue parks by removing all installations that encroach roads and pavements may be the ideal situation. “Such ideas have been discussed in the past too. The government cannot do it by force. Consensus has to be arrived at for initiatives like statue parks to be successful,” said Vijaykumar.
 
 
