VIJAYAWADA: The war in the ruling alliance intensified on Sunday with TDP MPs accusing the Union government of resorting to delaying tactics in fulfilling the promises made in   Reorganisation Act (APR 2014) and the state BJP unit of spreading misinformation on central support extended so far. 

 The new poster boy of Andhra's cause, TDP MP  , warned that justice for them was no more a state issue. It has already become a national issue with MPs from all parties supporting AP's cause in Parliament, he said.
 
 Reacting to TDP MPs' remarks, state BJP chief and Visakhapatnam MP   said that, if needed, his party would contest all 175 seats in Andhra Pradesh. 
 
 
 
 
 Haribabu refused to comment further on the TDP MPs’ potshots, saying: “I will not comment on them; if they tell me the mistakes in my note, I will give an explanation.”
 
 Interacting with the media after meeting chief minister   in the secretariat,   and Kinjarapu Rammohan Naidu brushed aside the details given out by Haribabu on Saturday on funds released by the Centre. They said that those funds were like what was given to any other state. Such funds had nothing to do with the assurances given in the APR Act or the 19 items listed in the Act for the state post-bifurcation.
 
 “They (the BJP) say that they have given a passport centre! Don’t they give it to any other state? And, they are speaking as if we are from some different country,” he fumed.
 
 Elaborating on the support they were getting in Parliament, Jayadev said: “All parties and all MPs are supporting our demands. The support is coming from MPs cutting across party and affiliation lines. Those who are supporting us believe that our demands are genuine and justified. They are observing if they too will be cheated like us,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, Rammohan Naidu sought to know why   cannot dream for the progress of their state. “They talk about giving housing schemes. But such schemes are granted for rest of the states. We are seeking handholding as the per capita income of Andhra post-bifurcation has been lesser than all southern states. If you can give Rs 11,000 crore for Bangalore Metro, why can’t we dream of Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam Metro and also a railway zone for the port city,” he asked.
 
 
