KOCHI: The father of the child who was assigned a name by the  , as the parents couldn't agree on the name, will question the court's decision through an appeal, his counsel said. 

 
 A single bench of the court had assigned the name ' ' through its judgment whereas the father, a  , had rooted for ' ' and the mother, a Christian, had wanted 'Johan Mani Sachin'.
 
 Advocate Manjeri  , who represented the father before the single bench, said the father is unhappy with the high court's decision to assign a name and will prefer an appeal.
 
 Elaborating, advocate Sunderraj said, "The child already has an accepted name. What the court has done now is to change the name. Namakaranam (Hindu ceremony for naming a child) was already over. The child is a Hindu as it is the father's religion that is considered. That is the reason why an appeal is being preferred."
 
 The court also erred in assigning a name while only a directive to enter the name into the records was sought, the counsel points out. He said, "Naming has already been done. The work was regarding entering the name. The dispute was as to which name should be entered, as the birth certificate requires a name in it. It is wrong to even say that a new name has been given."
 
 Assigning a name to the child by the court also violates the child's identity, the counsel said. "Another argument is that the child has an identity as per principles of human rights and child rights. That identity has already been established. By whatever name the child is known, that is the identity. There's a caste aspect also involved. He's a Pillai and the mother is a Christian. Not only a name but also a religion is imposed on the child. Because name also points at one's religion. That should not be allowed as it's the child's identity," the lawyer said.
 
 "The name 'Abhinav' is a secular name. The meaning is 'new' or 'fresh'. That was our argument. The other child also has such a common name. We argued that no caste or religion should be reflected in the name. But the judge didn't hear us properly," he added.
 
