BHOPAL: Two sisters going home on their scooter were stalked and chased by eight drunken men on bikes, who hooted lewd comments at them and molested them in the heart of the city around midnight on Friday. One of the survivors is a minor, and the other an executive with a private firm. Thankfully for the girls — and the city — a stranger courageously took on the gang and helped save them.

 The molestation brought back chilling memories of last year’s gang-rape of an IAS aspirant not far from where the two sisters were attacked. Twenty-four hours later, police are yet to arrest any of the accused although the minor — a Class IX student — had the courage to snatch the motorcycle key of one of the molesters and hold on to it despite being beaten.
 
 Asked about the delay in nabbing the suspects, DIG Dharmendra Choudhary told TOI that action will be taken if any cop is found guilty of inaction.
 
 The sisters told TOI that they were returning from a friend’s family party at Lalghati and had no hesitation going on their scooter because they always believed Bhopal was safe for girls. Eight men on three bikes tried to waylay them near Pragati petrol pump in MP Nagar Zone II.
 
 ‘It’s because of such strangers that we still feel safe’
 
 O ye sun, they shouted. We instinctively looked back, thinking we had dropped something and they were helping us. But we realized they were drunk,” said the schoolgirl.
 
 The sisters showed nerve and presence of mind and dodged their bid to force them to stop. They accelerated and the eight drunken men gave chase, hooting and shouting lewd comments. Amar Warantikar, who works with a media house, was going home when he saw the chase near Mansarovar and initially thought it was some friends fooling around —not an uncommon sight.
 
 “But I realized, the girls were in danger. I pulled up alongside the goons and warned them. The girls saw me and pleaded for help,” Amar told TOI. “Near Habibganj station, we sought help from a bike-borne stranger. He tried to help us but the stalkers abused him. This continued till we reached the overbridge where the stranger cut across the goons and stopped them. The gang started beating him and us, too, when we intervened. I dialled 100,” said the elder girl, who was driving the scooter.
 
 On realizing that she had called police, the rowdies tried to escape. “The leader among them packed off the
 
 most drunk of the lot, who was the filthiest, with one of the bikers. Suddenly, my sister grabbed the keys of the two other bikes. The rowdies grappled with us and snatched back one of the keys and sped off, leaving the third bike there itself. When police arrived, the stranger and we went to Bag Sewania police station to file a complaint,” said the elder sister.
 
 Amar suffered injuries to his face in the attack. “It is because of such brave strangers that girls can still ride freely in Bhopal. We feel safe because of such people,” she added. Recalling the moment when he took on the gang of eight, Amar told TOI: “When I tried to help the girls, the men abused me and said ‘teri behan lagti hai kya’. That made me more determined. I couldn’t leave the girls on their own.”
 
 Asked why he risked his life, he said: “I wouldn’t call it bravery. My only thought was what if it happens with my sister or mother.” DIG Dharmendra Choudhary said police will felicitate Amar for his courage.
 
 The bike seized by police, a Yamaha FZ, is registered in the name of Aditya Anwekar, a resident of Surendra Palace on  . Bag Sewania SHO Lalit Dangur said, “A police team raided the address mentioned in the registration details. The house was found locked. Neighbours told police that it is rented by two youngsters. We are looking for them.”
 
