HYDERABAD: After a fortnight-long painstaking investigation, Cyberabad police on Monday solved the sensational murder of an eightmonth pregnant woman at   and apprehended three persons from Siddique Nagar.

 On January 30, the chopped body of the pregnant woman, packed in two sacks, was found on the roadside near   at Kondapur. With the help of CCTV camera footage, police identified that the sacks were dumped at the spot in the early hours of January 29 by two persons, including a woman, travelling on a   bike.
 
  
  
 
 
 Police then enhanced the CCTV images and obtained the bike’s registration number (AP10AL 9947), which led them to   Jha of  , a worker at a pub in Gachibowli. Amarkant was riding the bike in blue T shirt and police suspected that the woman pillion rider, carrying the sacks, could be one of his family members.
 
  then launched a manhunt to nab Amarkant and realised that he had fled the city on February 3 by boarding a train at the Secunderabad railway station. A special team of Cyberabad police went to Bihar and apprehended Amarkant.
 
 Simultaneously, police raided Amarkant Jha’s house at Siddique Nagar and picked up Amarkant’s mother  , 40, his father Anil Jha, 45, and a seven-year-old boy. Police are interrogating Amarkant and his family members to know who the victim was, who killed her and why.
 
 Police sources revealed they had identified Amarkant as the person who rode the bike with a woman, suspected to be his mother, to dump the body. Amarkant is not married and the six-yearold boy found at his house told police his mother was missing for the past few days.
 
 Police suspect that the pregnant woman was the boy’s mother. “Amarkant Jha’s mother employed one   of Uttar Pradesh to run a panipuri shop at Gachibowli. The boy used to call Vikas ‘papa’. We know that the woman was killed at Amarkant’s house and his family was involved in mutilating and disposing the body. We believe that an extra-marital relationship was the reason for the murder. We are interrogating the suspects to ascertain details of the victim. We have to do scene recreation and recover weapons used in dismembering the body,” an investigating officer said.
 
 Cops said the victim came to Amarkant’s house a few weeks ago with the boy as Vikas did not have a proper place to stay. Police also found out that Amarkant borrowed the Yamaha bike, used for transporting the body, from a colleague at the pub.
 
