BHANDARA: In a major boost for NCP stalwart Praful Patel and former   MP Nana Patole, Congress-NCP candidate Madhukar  , 67, emerged victorious trouncing his BJP rival Hemant Patle by a margin of 48,097 in the Bhandara-Gondia bypoll which was held over May 28 and 30.

  
 Patole had quit BJP some months ago personally targeting Prime Minister   and state CM Devendra Fadnavis, and then joined  . Patel too had received a big jolt when he lost to Patole in the 2014 Parliamentary elections by over 1.5 lakh votes. 
 
 However, Patle polled more voted in Gondia assembly constituency which Patel’s hometown. Though a Rajya Sabha MP, Patel is touted to return to the hustings in 2019 and Kukde’s victory has only boosted his chances.
 
 The result is a big jolt to Fadnavis and Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari both of who had held public meetings in the constituency. Bhandara town is about 60 kms from Nagpur and Gondia is another 100 kms away.
 
 Patole had quit BJP alleging that Modi was indifferent towards farmers’ cause. He had also said that even though Modi was an OBC, the community was being neglected. The by-poll was thus a matter of prestige for the BJP.
 
 The by-election recorded a relatively low turnout of 50% and was also marred by EVM malfunctioning. Re-polling was ordered in 49 out of the over 2,100 centres.
 
 Re-polling in as many as 20% centres of a constituency is not usual, and the EVM malfunction also led to a drop in the turnout, said observers. A turnout of 48% was recorded in the repolling at 49 centres.
 
 Political observers say that caste played a major role in deciding the outcome. While Kukde and Patle are former MLAs from the same Lok Sabha constituency, the former is a Kunbi while the latter is a Powar. Kunbis, who are mainly farmers, have around 3 lakh votes in the area while Powar votes are estimated to be over 2.5 lakh. 
 
 NCP workers claimed that apart from garnering votes from his own community, Kukde also led in the Tiroda-Goregaon assembly constituency, a Powar dominated area, in the bypolls. The pocket was among those which had a major contribution in Kukde’s vote tally. Kukde also had major gains in Sakoli, the area where Patole holds sway, sources said.
 
 Kukde, the winner, will remain in office for less than a year. 
 
 Earlier, there were speculations that Patel himself may contest the bypolls which he refused. Both Patel and his rival in 2014 elections Patole joined hands to campaign for Kukde. Though caste was a factor, there was a general resentment against the government especially among the farming community due to falling rates of paddy, which is the main crop grown in the area. The crop was hit by a major pest attack. Moreover, poor rainfall in 2017 flared up anti-incumbency.
 
 Fadnavis claimed in Mumbai that the drought was the only reason for BJP’s defeat. He said that the elections been held after rains, the result would have been different.
 
 Interestingly, Patole stayed at home in his village Sukhdi, 60 kms from Bhandara on counting day while Patel came along with Kukde to the counting centre. His supporters said that the ex-MP could not reach the centre as he was busy in a religious function at his home.
 
 Patel termed the victory a result of joint efforts by Congress and NCP. “The BJP must take lessons from the defeat. The party may be rejoicing over its victory in Palghar but it must realize that the vote share has shrunk considerably. Its only because division of votes between other candidates that the party has been able to win the Palghar seat. The party’s defeat in other bypolls indicates a complete failure of the government,” he said.
 
 “In Bhandara-Gondia, the BJP tried to divide the votes by eyeing the Dalit vote bank but the ploy failed. Despite several Dalit candidates who were backed by BJP being fielded, the votes were not divided resulting in gains for the NCP-Congress alliance,” added Patel.
 
 Congress and NCP have been traditional allies and have fielded candidates after mutual agreement. “Although there was some misunderstanding in the previous general polls, leaders of both the parties want to bring back the old cooperation,” said Patel.
 
 A NCP source said the Bhartiya Republican Party of Prakash Ambekdar fielded LK Madavi who comes from the scheduled tribe community. Had a schedule caste candidate been in fray, the party’s vote share may have been much higher. Madavi ended up with over 25,000 votes.   and Jogendra Kawade too had fielded candidates but they came a cropper.
 
 
