CHENNAI: Victims of unauthorised construction not only have the right to get the illegal construction razed, but they can also claim damages suffered due to such structure, by attaching the violator’s properties,   has ruled.

 A   of Justice M Venugopal and Justice S Vaidyanathan made the observation while hearing a plea moved by Golden Enclave Owners Association, Anna Nagar,  , Chennai.
 
 The petitioner wanted the court to direct the commissioner of Pammal municipality to demolish unauthorised structure in the ground floor of their apartment complex constructed in deviation of the planning permission.
 
 According to the petitioner, its members purchased the flats duly approved by the Pammal municipality on April 12, 2012. “There was construction agreement dated June 28, 2012 and the building has been constructed in deviation of the sanctioned plan. The builder G D Constructions, have constructed a unauthorised superstructure of 400sqft on the North-Eastern portion of the combined stilt consisting of a hall and a kitchen encroaching the space of two car parking area, which has affected the movement space in the parking area,” the association said.
 
 The municipal commissioner filed an affidavit stating that the building in question was inspected and it was found that it had no set back space, there is unauthorised construction even in the stilt floor. A final order had been passed directing the builder to demolish the unauthorised construction, the official said.
 
 Recording the submissions, the bench directed the authorities to remove the deviation within 15 days from the date of receipt of a copy of this order. “If there are any violations in other flats in the apartment, it is needless to mention that it is open for the authorities to issue notice to those persons so that they can rectify the defects pointed out by the authorities, failing which the same yardstick applicable to the builder, is also applicable to those violators including the petitioner.
 
 Further, we are of the view that if any construction has been made in violation of the sanctioned plan and that there is loss to the residents it is open for them to collect even necessary charges for damage and other charges, if any, even by attachment of properties of G D Constructions.
 
 
