GURUGRAM: A 35-year-old man was found hanging from an iron pillar inside non-motorised track (NMT)   at   on early Monday morning, raising safety fears among those who commute along the stretch after sundown. 

 The underpass has been built to ensure free passage for pedestrians and cyclists, and it was opened for public in January. However, the passage has become a hub of criminals in the absence of proper lighting.
 
 A   team reached the spot after pedestrians and cyclists alerted them that a body was found hanging inside the underpass. Police are trying to verify his identity and suspect that he was a labourer. “No identification document was found on the body. We are trying to establish his identity,” SHO of Civil Lines police station   said, adding that prima facie it looked like a case of suicide.
 
 Initially, police had detained a drunken man who was found sleeping on the pedestrian track of the underpass, but released him after recording his statement. Police said the man, a security guard, claimed he decided to sleep at the underspass while he was going back home on his friend’s bike since he was so drunk. He, police said, in fact told his friend that he would ride the bike but forgot to take the latter along with him from   from where the duo got drunk together. 
 
 Upon reaching Rajiv Chowk, he parked the bike at the opening of the underpass and slept near the spot where the body was found hanging, without realising it. He told police he woke up only when they reached the spot on Monday morning. “We recorded the statements of the drunk man, his wife and his friend who was with him on Sunday night. He was not in his senses when he went inside the NMT underpass,” a police officer said, adding that it was a case of suicide. However, the statements of people who found the body hanging in the NMT underpass raised doubts on the suicide theory. “The body had injury marks in hands and legs, and was bleeding,” said an auto driver, who was among the first few to spot the body.
 
 The feet of the deceased man were touching the floor of the underpass, according to police. “There needs to be a gap between the floor and feet. Even height of the iron pillar from which body was found hanging was not enough for a person to   self,” said an eye-witness. People are found sleeping inside the underpass and several empty liquor bottles were found outside the underpass, suggesting many are using this stretch for drinking.
 
 
