CHENNAI: Three senior district judges in Tamil Nadu, including one who had got two ‘good conduct’ certificates from the  , are set to be sacked from service. 

 The services of  , registrar (special) at the Madras high court, and D Leelavathi, additional principal judge of family court in Chennai are being ended at the age of 58, without being extended up to 60 years. Whereas R Naraja, who is at present chief judicial magistrate of Tiruvannamalai, is just 50 and he will lose about a decade’s service, including the two-year extension he would have got at 58.
 
 
  
 
 Arul’s case is the most conspicuous among the three, since on two occasions the then Chief Justice of India had certified him to be ‘very good’. In the first certificate in May 2015, the CJI said Arul was ‘very good, sincere, dependable and courteous’. In November 2015 another certificate came his way describing him as ‘very good, sincere, initiative-taking and dedicated’. He was serving as registrar (administration) of the Supreme Court on those occasions.
 
 Later, though he was recommended for elevation as a judge of the Madras high court, his candidature was shot down by the Intelligence Bureau. Citing the adverse report, the Supreme Court rejected the recommendation of the Madras high court for his elevation. He is also fighting a writ petition filed by a woman, K Sundari, in 2014, over a property deal. The case is pending in the high court.
 
 Leelavathi too faced grave allegations before the full court, which found that scores of orders shown as having been delivered by her, had not been delivered at all. There were also allegations over community certificate and non-declaration of property details against her, but the full court attributed the decision to end her service to judicial performance and conduct. 
 
 Sources told TOI that the resolution to remove the three was adopted after an animated debate among judges at the meeting. Some judges argued for their continuation in service, but a majority voted for action. At one point, it was even suggested that such a bid to save the corrupt would lead to a situation where, as in Andhra Pradesh, the state vigilance and anti-corruption department could be empowered to raid and take action against sitting judicial officers in the state.The resolution would now be sent to the state government – in the case of Arul it would be the Union territory of Puducherry – for notification. Meanwhile, the three may be given non-sensitive posts.Performance review of a subordinate judicial officer is done on three occasions — when he/she turns 50 years of age, 55 and/or 58 years. It is the Supreme Court’s dictat that ‘deadwood should be removed from sevice’ before they are given the final two-year extension of service, at the age of 58. While judicial officers, who are sought to be discharged, at 50 years or 55, can claim right to continuance, in the case of those touching 58 years, it is the absolute prerogative of the high court to retain them or send them off.
 
 The Madras high court has cracked the whip against corruption and misconduct by subordinate judicial officers, nearly two years after the state witnessed removal of about 10 members of the subordinate judiciary, during the chief justiceship of Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (since elevated to the Supreme Court as judge).
 
 
