LUCKNOW: Sangh Parivar outfits — VHP and   — have sought to equate 2015 lynching of Akhlaq in Dadri with that of   in Kasganj and demanded “martyr” status as well as hike in compensation for him.

 In a memorandum submitted before UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath here on Wednesday, they alleged that a plot was being hatched to “silence Hindus in India” and accused the previous   government of giving a large sum as compensation to Akhlaq’s family. They demanded that compensation be increased from Rs20 lakh to Rs50 lakh for Chandan’s family.
 
 “The intelligentsia will not speak but the truth is that there is a sinister plot to disturb the atmosphere in the country and silence Hindu voices. ‘Vipatti jab chhoti ho use kuchal dena hitkari hota hai (When the problem is small, it is necessary to finish it there),” the memorandum stated.
 
 In 2015, Mohammad   was killed by a mob in Dadri near Delhi on the suspicion that he carried and ate beef. The then SP government had first announced a compensation of Rs20 lakh to Akhlaq’s family, but later increased it to Rs30 lakh. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Akhlaq’s three brothers were given Rs5 lakh each.
 
 Also, four two-bedroom apartments in Noida, not covered under any government scheme, were also given to Akhlaq family under the chief minister’s discretionary fund.
 
 “Previous governments honoured cow-butcher Akhlaq as a martyr. By that standard, Chandan Gupta was a patriotic servant of the country. It is necessary that Chandan Gupta’s death must get him martyrdom. His family
 
 should be provided full-time security as well as government job,” the memorandum said.
 
 “The compensation amount to the bereaved family should be increased from Rs20 lakh to Rs50 lakh,” said the memorandum.
 
 The memorandum drew flak from Samajwadi Party leader and former minister  .
 
 “Sangh Parivar outfits are provocative. People from both communities will suffer. Since the issue is now always about Muslims or sloganeering involving Pakistan, my appeal is either send all of us to China or take away our voting rights,” Khan told TOI over the phone.
 
