COIMBATORE: The School Education Department will start accepting applications for   for entry-level classes in private schools from April 20, under the 25% reservation for under privileged students of Right to Education ( ) Act.

 For the second consecutive year, the state government has decided to accept applications through online portal.
 
 Receiving a circular from the director of matriculation schools, the inspector of matriculation school (IMS), through the chief education officer (CEO), has directed the private schools in the district to install a flex board, containing information about the admission, in front of the schools from April 2.
 
 “We would be conducting a meeting with the CEO and other officials concerned and collect the details regarding the number of reserved seats available in each school,” said an official from IMS office.
 
 “After verification, the schools will have to display the number of seats available on their notice board from April 10 and subsequently they have to educate the people regarding the enrolment formalities from April 16,” the official added.
 
 The RTE Act mandates free and compulsory education for children between 6 and 14 years in a neighbourhood school till they complete elementary education.
 
 Recently, the minister of state for human resource and development Upendra Kushwaha answered to a question in Parliament that enrolment of children in elementary schools has increased due to the RTE Act. He said the enrolment rose from 18.78 crore in 2009-10 to 19.67 crore in 2015-16. 
 
 However, an educationalist said that the act has nothing to do with increase in enrolment. “Increase in population and awareness among the people led to increase in the enrolment. Even if the act was not implemented, the enrolment would have increased,” said general secretary of state platform for common school system PB Prince Gajendra Babu.
 
 Further, authorities from private schools said instead of reserving seats for underprivileged students in private schools, the government should improve infrastructure of government school and admit the students there. “There is difficulty in obtaining reimbursement from the government. It should invest the money to improve quality and facilities at government schools, instead of reimbursing us,” they said. 
 
 
