In line with the nod to   drain's embankment road, the defence ministry has also given a green signal to three more projects in the city which will bring ease to commuters. Held for long for want of a single clearance, their timely completion will give massive relief to people. TOI details these projects and how they will benefit commuters: 

  Piprah Ghat bridge-cum-road | This had to be done by UP State Bridge Corporation (UPSBC) where the main road from Gomtinagar Extension had to extend till the Gomti and form a bridge over it to join Cantt through  . This would be a relief to people travelling to the airport and SGPGI as instead of taking the congested VIP Road, they could take the alternative route. The project was pending since March 2016 because defence clearance on a 3.7-acre land near Dilkusha was awaited. While most of the road has already been built by LDA and bridge by UPSBC, the only part left is a small portion of the bridge and approach road towards Cantt. 
 
  This project recently got the green signal from the   and is scheduled to be completed by June. It will significantly reduce travel time of commuters from Sadar, Cantt and   towards Gomtinagar Extension. 
 
  Widening of   | This is a small stretch from Telibagh crossing to Cantt which required widening of one side of Rae Bareli Road. The PWD had proposed to widen the road to three lanes. While majority of the work was complete, a small patch of 670 metres near Cantt needed defence approval. 
 
 PWD Lucknow's chief engineer   said, "Only this stretch was single-lane because of pending approval from the defence ministry. Traffic from SGPGI, Rae Bareli and Vrindavan Yojna took long to cross this stretch. People also faced inconvenience as this patch was a kuchha road. We could not make it as defence had prohibited any construction."
 
 The approval has finally come and it is expected to become three-lane by December. It would make it convenient for traffic from Rae Bareli Road towards   and Alambagh. The highway sees a heavy traffic load-about 20,000 vehicles per day-and needs three lanes at the earliest. 
 
  Widening of culvert between Khurramnagar and CIMAP | The project involves widening of a 24-metre-long culvert on Picnic Spot Road. The two-lane road is 7 metre wide but it leads to a narrow culvert (over Kukrail drain) of 4 metre width, allowing only one vehicle to pass at a time. This leads to frequent jams. 
 
  PWD had proposed to build a 12-metre culvert parallel to the older one and connect it with Picnic Spot Road on each side. 
 
  This would have facilitated two or more vehicles to pass at a time. The project was stuck because the construction was to be done on defence land. After a wait of 6 years, Army has given its approval. The project is expected to be complete by December. 
 
 
