CHANDIGARH: The announcement to ban the officials of the Indian Consulate from attending the gurdwaras in their official capacity in Canada has created a rift between the announcers and the sangat at large. 

 According to information, only a handful of gurdwara committee members -- claiming to have support from 15 gurdwaras -- announced to bar the Indian consular officials from gurdwaras allegedly on the ground that they interfere in the lives of Canadian Sikhs. Of those calling for the ban included members of the Ontario Gurdwaras Committee and Ontario Sikhs and Gurdwara Council. Notable among those was Gurpeet Singh Bal, president of the largest gurdwara, Ontario Khalsa Darbar, Dixie Road.
 
 Bal, who during his New Year eve speech at the gurdwara, which made headlines after   leader   had attended the gurdwara known for Khalistani-leanings, announced to ban Indian consular officials on grounds of alleged interference in the Sikh affairs.
 
 Explaining his reason for the ban announcement, Bal said, “Last year, Carabram Fair had two pavilions; an Indian pavilion and a Punjab pavilion. The India Consul General personally intervened and expressed reservations over the Punjab pavilion. Also, he attended the gurdwara on two occasions, one being someone’s bhog ceremony. There, his photographer started clicking pictures and I stopped him because they then use these pictures in media for their own benefit. If the Indian government wants to heal Sikh wounds, it should provide justice for 1984.”
 
 Like other gurdwaras in Canada, Ontario Khalsa Darbar is a registered corporation with 11 directors. There’s a six-member executive chosen from among these directors, who then become committee president, vice-president, secretary, assistant secretary, treasurer and vice-treasurer. Talking to TOI, Ontario Khalsa Darbar secretary Ranjit Singh Dudley said, “I was not in the congregation hall when president Bal made this announcement. I was busy with gurdwara-related work.”
 
 Interestingly, four of its committee members later issued a statement, saying Bal’s gurdwara speech announcing ban on Indian Consul General and government officials was his personal opinion. The statement has been signed by Gurinder Singh Bhullar, Navjit Singh, Amrik Singh Deol, while Paramjit Singh Bolina at the time of issuing the statement was in India and had given his consent over the phone.
 
 Similarly, Gurdwara Sri Guru Nanak Sikh Centre, 99 Gliden Road, Brampton, and Gurdwara Brampton Sikh Sangat gurdwara committees said the issue was never discussed with them and nor had they authorised anyone to represent the gurdwaras or okayed the list (with the name of their gurdwaras) to be added to those announcing sanctions. Banning anyone was against Sikh traditions said the release signed by directors Sukhwant Singh Rai, Sarwan Singh Gill, Sarwan Singh Sandhu, Pushpinder Singh Atwater and Mahinder Singh Grewal.
 
 When asked about the press release, Sarwan Singh Gill replied, “We had released our statement to the press. Nobody comes to gurdwara donned as an official...There’s no official capacity in the gurdwara. I have been the director of the gurdwara since its inception 22 years ago. We have never come across an instance where there was any interference from the Indian consulate.”
 
 Similarly, chairperson of Gurdwara Baba Buddha ji — run by Sikh Society Hamilton, Wentworth — Akwinder Kaur Jhutty has written to the Indian Consul General, saying they do not agree with the decision of the Ontario Gurdwara Committee. She said the decision was not discussed with their gurdwara executive. The clarification sent to the press has been signed by Gurmel Singh Jhutty, Jasbir Singh Sonal, Santosh Singh Dhaliwal, Jatinder Singh Labana, Nirmal Singh Rataul, Sukhdev Singh Grewal, Balwinder Singh Randhawa, Gurcharan Singh Labana, Satnam   and Akwinder Kaur Jhutty.
 
 However, there are some who feel there’s more to the issue. “This is an effort to derail Prime Minister (Justin) Trudeau’s scheduled visit to India for bilateral trade relations. I believe that’s why this issue, which actually is a non-issue, has been raised,” said  , notable Sikh community leader and father of MP Ruby Sahota.
 
 “I have always been active in the community and also remained the stage secretary of Ontario Khalsa Darbar Gurdwara, Dixie Road, for 15 years. Never in my entire stint have I ever seen the Indian Consulate officials approaching or interfering in the gurdwara matters,” said Jandali.
 
 Students from India had stopped visiting gurdwaras when the issue was raised, he said. “We told them it was not the case and not all supported the ban,” he added.
 
 While India is likely to raise the issue of Sikh radicals with Trudeau during his India visit from February 17 to 23, it is also making more and more gurdwara committee members in Canada to speak against the decision to “ban” Indian officials from attending gurdwaras, said sources.
 
 
