In the latest episode of  , Deep asks Arohi to remember her final moments as he locks her in a room and goes. Chawanni tries to break the lock and free Arohi but he is unable to. Arohi asks him to go and not risk his life for her. Chawanni's friend follows Roma and Deep.

 
 Deep tells Roma that he is glad that Arohi's chapter is finishing off from his life. Roma laughs and says that Arohi shouldn't have messed with her in the first place.
 
 Prithvi tries calling Vedika but gets no response. He worries. Virat comes and hits him on the head, making him fall down. He takes Prithvi's phone and checks his records and sees that he called Vedika.
 
 Chawanni frees Arohi by entering the room through the back gate. As they return, Deep asks Roma's permission to kill Arohi himself but Roma says that she will be the one who gets to kill her. They enter the room, Chawanni's friend calls him and informs about them coming. Chawanni quickly hides behind some stuff.
 
 Roma points a gun at Arohi's head and asks if she was scared of dying. Arohi replies that Roma couldn't scare her and says that she cannot gain any respect as her own kids called her characterless. Roma gets angry and gets ready to shoot Arohi. Just as she is about to, she gets a call from the minister asking to meet him urgently if she wanted to save her job. Roma panics and goes home. Deep keeps an eye on her.
 
 Roma tells Deep to not tell anybody about Arohi's capture. Chawanni worries and thinks of a solution to free Arohi before Roma comes back.
 
 Prithvi wakes up and sees Virat there. He starts to question her about Vedika. Prithvi denies everything and gives no answer. Virat holds him by his collar and threatens him. Roma comes in and sees Virat and asks him to let Prithvi go as the minister was coming home and she didn't want any drama. Virat gets furious and questions her relations with Prithvi and vows to find out the truth. Roma slaps him.
 
 The minister comes in and sees them fighting over Roma's illegitimate daughter. He decides to leave. Roma pleads him to stay.
 
 As Chawanni struggles to find a way out, Arohi tells him that Deep will himself let her go. Chawanni gets confused.
 
 As Roma tries to explain the truth to the minister, he leaves and refuses to grant her a ticket to contest the elections. Furious, Roma rushes and asks Deep to stay outside while she kills Arohi. She locks the room. Roma tells Arohi that she ruined her dream and shoots her. Arohi faints and falls down.
 
