The protracted legal battle for   water might have reached its end, but not the politics over it. After years of blame game on failure to secure the rights of  , this time the clamour is for claiming credit for the Supreme Court order. Nevertheless, the voices finding fault with the Centre’s action of setting up a Cauvery Water Management Authority and not a board as demanded are also getting shriller.

 
 All this while, chief minister   was at the receiving end for not putting up a spirited fight with the Centre which was delaying the submission of draft scheme for Cauvery resolution. But on Saturday, an elated CM was at Kodaikanal claiming full credit for the Supreme Court verdict on formation of aCauvery Water Management Authority. “It was Amma (late chief minister J Jayalalithaa) who knocked the doors of the Supreme Court for Cauvery water,” he recalled and said the verdict would solve the river water dispute forever now.
 
 DMK working president M K Stalin apparently is in no mood to cede the entire credit to AIADMK. “Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) always met Karnataka chief ministers personally and got the due share of Cauvery water for Tamil Nadu. But due to regime change, Tamil Nadu had to take legal recourse,’’ he said. Stalin said now that the Supreme Court has given a favourable verdict, EPS should hold friendly talks with his Karnataka counterpart and ensure that TN’s due share is received for release from Mettur on the customary date of June 12 for delta cultivation.
 
 “If the TN government failed to get the water, DMK would mobilise farmers and stage a massive protest,’’ he warned. In the same speech Stalin maintained that he does not want to gain political mileage out of the issue.
 
 Nevertheless, the political scene in the state would in all likelihood witness heated debates over Cauvery. Kamal Haasan rushing to hold an allparty meeting and the subsequent developments have also come as an indication that Cauvery politics is here to stay. The CPM snubbed Kamal, rebutting his statement that the veteran left leader R Nallakannu would participate in the meet. Stalin too turned down the personal invitation extended by Kamal for the meet. On the other hand, PMK leader   sprang a surprise by participating in the meet, though the party has been functioning alone and was vocal against actors entering politics.
 
 Meanwhile, DMK has convened an all-party meeting on Tuesday to discuss the Cauvery issue among others.
 
 PMK as well as MDMK have already pulled their daggers out saying AIADMK has betrayed TN and that there was much more to fight for. MDMK leader Vaiko felt that the regulatory authority lacked required autonomy.
 
 
