PANAJI: Around Rs 600 crore collected under Goa Iron   Permanent   (GIOPF) and Goa District Mineral Fund (GDMF) is gathering dust as not a single paisa has been spent for the welfare of the people from the   belt.

 Under GIOPF, the state government has collected Rs 419.65 crore, whereas under GDMF Rs 177.65 crore has been collected.
 
 Recently, the state government has constituted a committee to finalise the plans to utilise the funds, but till date not a single meeting has been held.
 
 Section 9B of the Mines and Mineral (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2015, states that the leaseholder should contribute 30% of the royalty paid for mining leases granted before January 12, 2015, to the GDMF.
 
 As per the Supreme Court order, 10% of the sale proceeds of iron ore excavated in the state of Goa and sold by the lessees must be appropriated towards the GIOPF for the purpose of sustainable development and inter-generational equity.
 
 Mines department sources said the government wants to spend around Rs 25 lakh from GDMF to install water taps at Sonshi. “As of now, not a single meeting has been held to discuss the spending of GDMF. Whereas GIOPF scheme has to be approved by the Supreme Court to commence the spending,” senior officer of the mines department said.
 
 The district mineral foundation shall work for the interest and benefits of persons, and areas affected by mining related operations and in particular shall work in following areas, which include restoring the ecology damaged by mining or other activity, including tree plantation in affected areas, providing health facilities, education, etc, building road/bridge network,
 
 GDMF was marked for desilting of water bodies, including dams and rivers, installing pollution control devices, sewage treatment plants, providing assistance for agriculture, horticulture, dairy farming, animal husbandry, providing altemate employment for affected persons.
 
 GDMF was also meant for soil rejuvenation of agricultural land and fodder development, providing veterinary clinics and storm water drainage in mining impact zone.
 
 The projects have to be executed through public works department, water resources department, forest department, river navigation department, agriculture department, department of animal husbandry and veterinary services, Goa state infrastructure and development corporation or any other departments, as per the directions and decision of the district mineral foundation.
 
 
