Visakhapatnam:   faculty of the 14 state universities, including nearly 150 contract professors of Andhra University (AU), have been left in a state of despair after the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has announced the schedule for the written tests for permanent faculty recruitment. 

 After the contract faculty held a relay hunger strike for about a month last year demanding that the government absorb them into permanent positions, the state government appointed a four-member   to look into their issues. Two former vice chancellors, a retired IAS officer and Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education secretary are the members of the committee.
 
 The committee has been touring several state varsities to solicit the views of the contract faculty. The committee chaired a meeting with Andhra University contract professors on March 15. The committee is slated to submit its report to the state government on  . However, now, even before the committee submits its report, the APPSC has announced the dates for the written test. 
 
 MAZ Ali, a contract professor at the education department of AU, said, “Telangana had formed a high-power committee to look into the issues related to the contract facultys. The committee had recommended time scale pay and continuing their services. We request the AP government to sort out our issues before the exams.” 
 
 V Haribabau, a contract professor at the political sciences and public administration department said that the High Court had stayed the roster reservation, the two-phase recruitment process and other issues. “We demand the state to absorb us into regular services or provide time scale pay. Our services for the last 15 years should also be considered while preparing seniority lists and giving promotions. We should also be exempted from the written test,” said Dr Haribabu.
 
 Universities Teachers Association (contract) Andhra Pradesh president K Arjunudu said that they were recruited in 2005 through a properly-constituted committee and job notification. “Now our future hangs in the balance with the state government’s decision to recruit assistant professors through a   instead of regularising our services. We demand equal pay for equal work or implementation of minimum time scale pay. The committee should look into regularisation of our services,” said K Arjunudu.
 
 
