NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court asked a Chennai-based real estate land aggregator, who has signed an MoU with   to purchase two tracts of its land for Rs 400 crore, to deposit Rs 90 crore in the court by March 31.

 A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justice A M Khanwilkar was told by Unitech’s lawyer Ranjit Kumar that Chennai-based Om Shakti Agencies Madras Private Ltd has agreed to pay in instalments Rs 400 crore by 2019 and that the first instalment is due by March 31.
 
 With the consent of the Chennai-based firm’s managing director, the bench directed it to deposit Rs 90 crore in the court by March 31 and warned that failure to do so would invite contempt of court proceedings.
 
 When amicus curiae Pawan Shree Agrawal informed the court that Unitech has deposited only Rs 38 crore as against the court’s order to deposit Rs 750 crore, Kumar said Unitech’s incarcerated MD Sanjay Chandra, despite being in prison for last seven months, has been able to negotiate a deal which would help the company to deposit Rs 110 crore in April.
 
 Kumar said most prospective buyers were reluctant to visit the jail to negotiate with Chandra and pleaded for his custodial parole for at least 15 days to   up deals for depositing the court-directed amount. But, the court said it has permitted him conference room and video conferencing facilities and that it would consider request for custodial parole later.
 
 On the suggestion of advocate M L Lahoty, the court sought response from Unitech on selling its three housing projects including Amber and Burgundy in Noida which could bring a net profit of Rs 1,000 crore to Unitech after meeting all liabilities. This Rs 1,000 crore could be deposited in the court for refunding the distressed home-buyers, Lahoty said.
 
 Amount required to satisfy the refund demand from home-buyers, who have invested in Unitech’s housing projects across the country, would be to the tune of Rs 2000 crore, the amicus had said. Kumar told the court that Unitech had delivered 600 flats to home-buyers in December and would give more by April.
 
 On October 30, Kumar had told the   that out of 16,000 home-buyers in various projects across the country, only 5,000 wanted refund. “The company is ready to deposit Rs 500 crore in the court and utilise the balance to construct flats for allotment to a vast majority of home-buyers who want possession of homes,” he had said.
 
 
