NEW DELHI:   (3/23) and   (2/11) helped   beat   by 31 runs in a low-scoring thriller at the   stadium in Mumbai on Tuesday. Sunrisers moved a place up to be at third in the   standings after registering their fourth win in six games. 

 
 
 
 With arguably the best bowling attack of the league, Sunrisers defended the lowest total of the season, 118, by bowling out the defending champions for 87 in 18.5 overs. It was also the second lowest target successfully defended ever in the history of IPL. Mumbai remained at seventh after suffering their fifth defeat in six games. 
 
 
 
 Contrary to the expectations, Mumbai made a horrible start to the small chase as they lost three early wickets and were tottering at 22/3 after six overs. 
 
 Pacer Sandeep Sharma (1/9) gave the visitors an early breakthrough when Evin Lewis was caught by Manish Pandey at point in the third over. Mohammad Nabi (1/23) then removed wicketkeeper-batsman Ishan Kishan in the next over. Mumbai were in a spot of bother when they lost Rohit Sharma (2) in the sixth over to Shakib Al Hasan (1/16).
 
 Opener Suryakumar Yadav and Krunal Pandya took their time but steadily revived the run chase. Suryakumar hit Nabi for back-to-back fours in the eighth over and Krunal smacked three boundaries off Kaul as they took Mumbai to 50/3 in nine overs. 
 
 Rashid broke the partnership in the 12th over with the help of a review, after umpire denied the leg before appeal against Krunal. Krunal hit four boundaries in his 20-ball 24 knock and added a valuable 40 runs for the fourth wicket with Suryakumar in 6.3 overs. 
  
 Rashid dismissed dangerous Kieron Pollard (9) in his next over to keep Sunrisers' hopes alive. Shikhar Dhawan took a brilliant catch at slips to give the young Afghan spinner his second wicket in the 14th over. At 75/5, Mumbai needed 44 more in the final six overs when Basil Thampi was introduced by skipper Kane Williamson.
 
 Thampi gave Sunrisers a big breakthrough as he got rid of Suryakumar, who was anchoring the Mumbai chase. Suryakumar scored 34 off 38 balls with the help of four boundaries. Then Kaul struck twice in five balls to change the scenario upside down as the pacer reduced Mumbai to 80/8 in 16 overs. The asking rate skyrocketed after Rashid bowled a maiden over to finish with figures of 2/11.
 
 Kaul came back to get rid of Hardik Pandya in his next over as the chase was more or less over for the hosts. And Thampi (2/4) completed the proceedings by dismissing Mustafizur Rahman in the penultimate over. 
 
 After winning the toss, under-pressure Mumbai bowled and fielded with purpose to bowl out a depleted Sunrisers for a measly 118. Williamson (29 with 5 fours), Yusuf Pathan (29) were the main scorers for the Sunrisers that lasted 18.4 overs after they were invited to bat.
 
 Mitchell McClenaghan (2/22), Hardik (2/20) and Mayank Markhande (2/15), who took back the purple cap, picked up two wickets apiece to pack off the visitors for the season's lowest total. While Mustafizur (1/18) and Jasprit Bumrah (1/25) chipped in with a wicket apiece.
 
 The Sunrisers started in encouraging fashion with their in-form skipper Williamson striking Bumrah for two fours in successive balls in the first over.
 
 But the visitors lost the wickets of comeback man Dhawan (5) and out-of-form Wridhiman Saha (o) in three balls in the second over from McClenaghan.
 
 From 20/2, there was a brief recovery to 44/3 before the visitors lost two more wickets in quick succession. Pandey (16) was caught at extra cover off Pandya and then Shakib (2) was run out with a direct hit to the bowler's end by Suryakumar.
 
 At the end of Powerplay, the Sunrisers were 46/4. The dismissal of Williamson, who seemed to carry on from the brilliant 84 he made against CSK, in the ninth over off Pandya left Sunrisers tottering at 63/5.
 
 From there it was a struggle for the visiting team as they lost wickets at regular intervals. Pathan was the last batsman out after facing 33 balls and striking one six and two fours.
 
 
 
 
