KOLKATA: The   branch of a public sector bank where   had her pensioner’s account is yet to give the police her bank statement details sought four days back, an investigator said on Sunday. 

 “On Thursday, police had sent a notice under Section 91 CrPC to the bank seeking the account details — the debit credit history of the account, in particular, and the details of such transactions,” the officer said. Police even went to the branch to collect the details but had to return empty handed. “The bank has sought more time. We have told them to get back as soon as they gather the details,” the officer added. 
 
  
  
 There has been some persistent allegations that  , now being treated at  , had been withdrawing his mother’s pension fraudulently. Police sources said they had found a “life certificate” lending credence to these allegations. The allegations, however, have raised questions whether anyone can fake documents to withdraw money from pensioner’s fund even if the pension holder is dead. Bank officials said it might be improbable but not entirely impossible. For example, this can be done if there is anexus between doctors and gazetted officers. 
 
 Again, this can be done by impersonating the pensioner to the doctor and the gazetted officer to certify their cause to the bank. “The signature in case of impersonation will differ but in such case the doctor might write an explanation fo r that,” added a senior bank official. Police, however, are not ruling out connivance of bank officials either. If the pensioner crosses 70 then he or she may not visit the branch for life certificate every November. Instead, the pensioner might request the bank branch to send an official to his or her residence for verification. 
 
 Now in case of shortage of staff, a certificate of a registered doctor supported by a gazetted officer with the signature or thumb impression is accepted. The ex-deputy chief secretary of SBI Staff Association, Ashok Mukherjee, said number of employees in all the PSU banks has gone down in last 5-10 years. According to a bank official, State Bank alone has 2.77 lakh pensioner in Bengal circle. The total figure taken into account all other PSU banks will be close to 5 lakh. Apart from SBI, United Bank of India, Allahabad Bank and UCO are other major banks for pensioners.
