TNN

 Mumbai:The 410-point drop in the   on Friday — which brought it down to a closing level of 32,597, a more than five-month low — came despite a Rs 1,628-crore net buying by foreign funds. This has raised hopes among Dalal Street investors that the Indian market may have, to a large extent, already discounted the   between the US and China. Also, the sensex’s 1.2% loss was much lower than the crash of 4.5% in the Japanese market, 3.4% in China and 3.2% in Korea. 
 
 The day’s session left investors poorer by Rs 1.60 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at just over Rs 144 lakh crore. On the  , the   lost 117 points (also 1.2%) and closed at 9,998 — below the psychologically important 10k mark for the first time since mid-October 2017. 
 
 Friday’s slide in the Indian market came mainly on the back of a 724-point drop in the Dow Jones index after US President Donald   announced a $50-billion tariff on China for violating intellectual property rights (IPRs). As a retaliatory measure, China too imposed tariffs on US goods. Analysts globally now fear that the trade war — being termed as ‘Trump’s tariff tantrums’, as it was started by the US president — will escalate.
 
 Religare Broking president Jayant Manglik said, “The escalation of trade war between the US and China triggered selling pressure across the globe, including in our market. Earlier, India was struggling with its own issues, and now the pressure from the global front has worsened the situation. The decline was broad-based, with realty and PSU banking counters the top losers for the second consecutive session.”
 
 Among the sensex shares, Yes Bank closed 3.9% lower while Axis Bank lost 3.3% and SBI closed with a 2.9% loss. The handful of gainers included Adani Ports (up 1%) and Infosys (up 0.8%). 
 
 A report by domestic financial major Edelweiss noted that India is relatively insulated in the current trade war between US and China, but there would be some impact on it since all the emerging markets will be hurt. 
 
 “India is relatively less vulnerable, given less trade exposure and a more diversified market. The US runs a large trade deficit with China, which is the reason for the recently announced tariffs,” the Edelweiss note pointed out. “Greater trade linkages also mean that the US is equally at risk from retaliation by major trading partners, which reduces probability of a full-blown trade war. However, any escalation of a trade stand-off will be negative for emerging markets which export around 60% to the developed markets,” it said.
 
 
