Touted to be “the first Telugu film to be shot completely in 4k high definition format”   will raise the bar for technical excellence in Tollywood, reckons director Ashok. This Anushka-starrer has been the fruition of a dream that he lived with for over five years. “It was in early 2013 that I first approached Anushka. She immediately agreed to do the film but we had to wait as she was committed to the Baahubali series and Rudhramadevi. No one else could have done this role. That is why I waited for her,” says Ashok adding, “To believe in a project and stand by it for so long speaks volumes of the trust   had in the script of Bhaagamathie and in me. I’m grateful to her for that.” 
From the film’s trailer, it is apparent that Anushka plays an IAS officer, Chanchala, who is convicted after she gets trapped in a conspiracy hatched by the villains. When she is moved to an ancient bungalow haunted by a spirit who calls herself Bhaagamathie, a series of supernatural events kick off. What happens then forms the crux of this thriller. The   director feels “the VFX (visual effects), screenplay and technical values” will be the USP of the film. “While Anushka plays the titular role, the special effects form the support cast for the film. I’ll start with the sound department. SS Thaman’s goosebump-inducing background score will give the 
 audience an adrenaline rush like never before. For about 40-minutes the audio effects in the film will leave the audience reeling,” explains Ashok.
 Apparently, the spookiest parts of the film play out in the ‘Bhaagamathie Bungalow’ — a 500-year-old palace gifted to a princess by a doting king. “We scouted for months to look for a suitable location all over India, but to no avail. So we erected a huge set in Hyderabad. The credit for it goes entirely to art director, Raveendar, who was the head of Production Design. A lot of detailing had to go into it, as it had to be in sync with the special effects that were to be added during postproduction. yet, Ravi got it ready in 25 days flat,” says Ashok, adding, “The biggest challenge of it all was the CG work. To synchronise the visual imagery with the actual footage was quite daunting. But I enjoyed every bit of the journey,” says Ashok, who reckons ‘Bhaagamathie will speak for itself’.
 Singling out Anushka for special praise, Ashok says, “Be it Arundhati (in Arundhati), Devasena (in Baahubali) or   (in  ), Anushka has showed that she can slip into any character with consummate ease. The same goes for Bhaagamathie too. She used to ask me so many questions about the script that at a certain point I was beset with self-doubt. Was she not confident about the script, I’d wonder. But then, I 
 realised that she was prepping for her role,” he recalls and adds, “We shot for 45 days in the bungalow. There was dust and grime everywhere giving everyone headaches, nasal infections and earaches. There was not even a murmur of complaint from her. In the trailer, there is one scene in which she nails herself to the wall. We shot that for two days. Imagine standing with your hand against the wallfor two days! She just took it all in her stride like a thorough professional. That’s why one of the biggest takeaways from Bhaagamathie for me is the association with Anushka.”
 
 
