NOIDA: The   ( ) on Sunday brought out a rally in Noida where participants brandished   and other sharp-edged weapons and disrupted   for several hours.

 The 8,000-odd participants, clad in saffron robes and carrying flags, rode bikes without helmets and even climbed on the bonnets of cars as the procession moved from Gejha village in Sector 110 to outside the Iskcon temple in Sector 33. One of the organisers was seen urging the youths to maintain discipline and avoid blocking the traffic, but to no avail. 
 
 Nilanjana Bhowmick, a Noida resident, was among the many who was caught in the snarl that resulted from the rally. She shared on Facebook some pictures of the youths brandishing sharp-edged weapons. 
 
 “Those in the rally were armed with sharp-edged weapons and threatening others to make way for them. My driver apprehended trouble and we returned home instead of heading towards our destination,” she said.
 
 Vishal Kumar, another commuter who was held up, said: “They were waving saffron flags and brandishing swords. They also chanted slogans. I was scared. I felt it safe to stop my bike on the roadside and allow them to pass.”
 
 Uma Nandan Kaushik, the VHP’s zonal head, said the organisation had sought permission from the district administration to bring out the procession. “There were around 8,000-10,000 people in the rally. They were on bikes and cars and traffic was affected,” he said. 
 
 Asked about the participants carrying weapons, Kaushik said the “shobha yatra” had idols of Durga, Hanuman, Ram and other deities and the weapons were meant to be carried by the idols. “Swords were part of the jhanki. The youths were not given swords to brandish,” he said.
 
 The rally, which started around 9.30am, culminated outside the Iskcon temple in the afternoon. Addressing the rally, VHP international working president Pravin Togadia demanded the formation of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.
 
 Piyush Kumar Singh, circle officer-1 of Noida, said the police were yet to get any complaint on the rally members carrying swords and other weapons. A complaint was, however, lodged on the UP police’s Twitter handle.
 
 
