MUMBAI: More than a month after she accused a co-passenger of inappropriately touching her on a flight, a teenaged actor has issued a statement that she is willing to pardon him if he approaches her. The incident had led to an uproar with the   taking up the matter with civil aviation authorities and the chief minister of a state tweeting in the girl's support. Vikas Sachdeva, a senior executive with a Mumbai-based entertainment company, was arrested in the case and stayed behind bars for 10 days. Sachdeva hasnt approached the actor for a pardon and his aides have questioned the timing of her statement. The law provides for cases to be quashed as per the court’s discretion. 

 The actor and her mother had travelled from New Delhi to Mumbai in a late night Air Vistara flight on December 9 in business class. After disembarking, she posted on Instagram Stories about a co-passenger having touched her inappropriately. She stated that the man had put up his foot on the arm-rest of her seat and stroked her neck and back. She shared a picture of his foot on her arm-rest. also said that the flight crew did not take any action against the passenger. 
 
 The crew later stated that the actor had screamed at the man when the flight was descending to land and they were in their jump seats. Later the crew in-charge located the actor and her mother in the arrival hall and asked whether they wanted to press charges against the passenger. But the mother-daughter duo said no and left the airport after collecting their bags. After the post went viral, the Sahar police visited the actor and her mother at their hotel the next day and after much convincing, registered a case under the strigent Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSOA). Sachdeva was arrested the same day. 
 
 When asked if the actor would withdraw the complaint or testify during trial, her manager said they could take that decision when needful. "Several people have reached out to us directly or indirectly to know what would be our stand in the case, now that the man (Sachdeva) has been named and shamed. Our stand is that in case we are approached (by the accused or anyone on his behalf), the actor is willing to pardon him (Sachdeva). We do not know if the man was a repeat offender or not. But he has learnt his lesson. We don't want someone to be punished if he has realised that he made a mistake. The actor was in shock after the incident but things have calmed down now and she is in a better state of mind," said her manager. 
 
 When contacted, Sachdeva's close friend, Kuldeep Bhargava, said Sachdeva hadn't approached the actor for a pardon. He questioned the timing of the actor's statement. "The case is in court and the judge will decide who is guilty and who isn't. We have maintained from the beginning that Sachdeva was returning from a funeral, was very tired and slept throughout the journey. He had put his foot up on the arm-rest of the seat in front of him but took it off on being told about it," said Bhargava.
 
 "The police department hasnt been approached by the actor or her family for withdrawing her complaint," said zonal DCP Anil Kumbhare. Lawyers told TOI that the law provides of compounding of petty offences. But there have been cases, including those of alleged rape, molestation and even charges under POCSOA that have been quashed by consent or a settlement between the parties. According to a prosecutor, cases can be quashed as per the court’s discretion by invoking the extra ordinary jurisdiction of the high court. An application has to be filed under section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code. 
 
 Between October and November 2017 a division bench of the high court had quashed FIRs alleging rape in at least six cases after the accused and victim reached a settlement. In all cases, the court held that the FIR disclosed the relationship was consensual and there was no material to book the accused for rape. The high court had observed while citing orders of the Supreme Court: The decision of the apex court, thus, makes it clear that the court cannot decline to quash the FIR merely because the FIR incorporates a particular provision which is a serious offence or an offence against society. The court has to endeavour to find out whether the FIR discloses ingredients of such offence. The court can accept the settlement and quash the FIR/charge-sheet if the court is of the opinion that such an offence is unnecessarily incorporated in the charge-sheet.
 
 
 
