GURUGRAM: A township with about 550 flats in   apparently boasts the city’s largest rooftop   generation system that has reduced its annual electricity bills by about 30 per cent.

 And if the proposed expansion plan materialises,   will be able to meet almost 75 % of its power needs for the common area, like lifts, corridors etc., through solar power in next six-seven months, setting a bright example for other residential societies to follow.
 
 
  
 
 With over 600 rooftop panels, the society currently generates around 200kWp of solar power, saving around Rs 20 lakh annually on electricity bills. Now, the residents are planning to install another 400 panels by December this year, increasing the capacity to 350kWp that will eventually help them save a total of Rs 35 lakh. Wellington has a single-point connection from DHBVN with a connected load of around 1,800kW.
 
 The residents had started installing solar panels in 2016. “We talked to several players in the region to get the best deal. We got solar panels from one company, and inverters and optimizers from another,” said Vineet Bagga, RWA president, Wellington Estate.
 
 “We already have an installed capacity of 200 kWp. In the second phase, we will get additional 150kWp. The advantage of the second phase is that we will be getting more power from lesser space because the new panels are advanced ones that will generate 370watts each. The existing panels produce only 320watts each,” he claimed.
 
 Ajay Jain, another resident, said the solar panels had already reduced individual power bills too. “Earlier, we used to pay 50 paisa per sqft. Now, we pay only 35 paisa per sqft. Around 40% of the electricity that goes to all common areas, including elevators, streets lights, lobby lights, water pumps etc., comes from solar panels. And after the second phase, solar power will cover almost 75% of the common area consumption,” he added.
 
 Giving a clearer picture, another resident Indu Arora said, “Earlier, I used to pay Rs 8,000 monthly for power. And now, it has come down to the range of Rs 4,500 – 5,000 a month. Because our consumption rate remains in the lower tariff category.”
 
 According to residents, the installed rooftop panels have a life span of 25 years. “Around Rs 1.05 crore was spent in the first phase. And we hope to recover that in the first five years only,” Bagga added.
 
 
