BANGARMAU ( ): When it comes to solemnising marriage, most of the people check for the compatibility of horoscopes or 'kundalis' of prospective bride and groom.

 
 But in Prem Ganj, one of the three pockets of Bangarmau town of Unnao district which hogged limelight after detection of alarming number of   positive cases, there is something more important than checking for the compatibility of one's horoscope or 'kundali'. "People, who are coming here with marriage proposals have started insisting to get a `No HIV' certificate from locals. Most of the locals however have accepted their demand and went for HIV test to avoid hurdles in future," confirmed  , a local corporator.
 
 The unusual condition came under spotlight when at least 58 persons were tested HIV positive in three localities of Bangarmau town, including Prem Ganj, Chakmir and Kirmidiyapur, after a quack had allegedly used infected syringes to treat scores of his patients.
 
 Muneeshwar (name changed), a private worker, who hails from Prem Ganj pocket, chose a girl from Tirwa area of Kannauj district. Their marriage is slated to take place soon after the Holi festival.
 
 On Monday last, parents of the girl told the boy's parents that they had to abide by certain conditions prior to the wedding.
 
 The boy's side agreed and Muneeshwar underwent the necessary medical tests at the private hospital on Friday.
 
 "On Saturday, after getting the test report, Muneeshwar and his family members heaved a sigh of relief as he had tested negative for HIV," informed a relative of Muneeshwar, who had played a role of mediator while talking to TOI and added that the doctor's report confirmed that he was not an HIV carrier.
 
 When the parents and siblings of the bride were informed about the report, they too were elated and gave their final consent asking the boy's family to come with `baraat' on March 4.
 
 This unusual demand might upset some people in our traditional society who may even call of a marriage, but both the sides are praiseworthy, said Dr IS  , President, AIDS Society of India.
 
