MUMBAI: Demand for   experts in India has outstripped supply of these professionals by three times over the last 18 months, according to research by an executive search firm, as companies seek to bolster their defence against data  .
 
  Currently, there are 10,000-15,000 open   related to cybersecurity in India, according to Belong, a technology platform that helps its clients search and hire professionals for cybersecurity, among other roles, according Belong’s research.
  
  “Big security breaches have led to a huge push towards cybersecurity in the last 12-18 months, with organisations going on a hiring spree to secure their data and systems,” said Rishabh Kaul, co-founder of Belong. Tarun Wig, co-founder of Innefu Labs, a provider and developer of niche and innovative cybersecurity solutions, said, “A single cyber attack can cause share prices to tumble drastically, as was the case in Walmart.
  
  With this, the requirements in cybersecurity have increased drastically.” The last one year has seen a spurt in cyber attacks on Indian companies and government bodies. While   and Petya   may just be the tip of the iceberg, companies and the government are rushing to strengthen their defence. According to the people aware of the matter, the total cybersecurity segment has been growing fast for most consultancies. Both preventive and post-incident investigations could be anywhere between Rs 800 and Rs 1,000 crore in fees, they said.
  
  
  
  The big four professional services firms—EY, PwC, Deloitte and KPMG—together control about 80% of the market. These firms currently have about 1,200 people in cybersecurity teams across India. “In last one year, there has been a spurt in the number of incidents, due to which not just the private sector but also government agencies have woken up to cybersecurity,” said a partner at one of the Big Four consulting firms. “Cybersecurity could be divided into pre-incident and post-incident, and all of this is currently growing, including the number of people being hired,” the executive said.
  
  Experts said companies have also started working with services firms to solve these problems, which is further fuelling the demand. At biggies like Microsoft and Oracle, hiring for cybersecurity is now being seen as important, they said. According to Wig, with the recent ransomware attacks, cybersecurity has moved away from large enterprises to middle and small enterprises, adding to the need for cybersecurity professionals. India was the fourth most-targeted country in ransomware last year.
  
  ”The fastest-growing space in cybersecurity is identity and access management, and about 9,000 people were hired in the last couple of years. Also, for all Indian companies, the fastest-growing area is digital, so by default some people, while their role is not clearly defined as one looking after security of applications or servers, are actually doing that even as part of digital,” said Sivarama Krishnan, leader-cybersecurity at PWC India. “The issue with cybersecurity is there is a two-year investment in people. So, if I hire someone today, it will take at least two years for him/her to learn the ropes and contribute to the firm,” said Krishnan.
  
    experts said that even the government has got serious about cybersecurity in the last one year. It is considering establishment of a defensive firewall aimed at protecting data servers supporting state-owned banks and enterprises against cyberattacks launched by criminals and countries seeking to undermine India’s key institutions. Cyber attacks are generally of two kinds—targeted attacks by criminals or black hats, and governmentsponsored ones.
  
  Industry executives, who did not wish to be named, said several Indian companies and some government institutions have seen an increase in cyber attacks emanating from China. In its 2017 report, leading IT security firm McAfee Labs counted 311 publicly disclosed security incidents. The report also mentioned that security teams nowadays face 244 new cyber threats every minute. New malware samples leaped 67% to 52 million, new ransomware samples increased 54% to 10.7 million samples, and total mobile malware grew 61% in the past four quarters to 18.4 million samples, the report said.
  
