A day after the Tamil Nadu government ordered the   smelter in   to be “sealed” and “permanently closed”, the state government moved further on Tuesday and cancelled the allotment of land for Sterlite’s planned Phase II expansion in the port town.

 
 With the ruling AIADMK government battling the political onslaught from the opposition parties after the legislative assembly convened for the budget session, the latest step seems to have been taken to send out a strong signal to Sterlite Copper which may be harping on the thoughts of seeking legal remedy to restart its operations and also get the required go ahead for its planned expansion.
 
 The state-owned State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu ( ) on Tuesday cancelled the allotment of 342.22 acres of land to   for the proposed expansion of its copper smelter plant’s Phase II expansion in Tuticorin.
 
 In the order, SIPCOT managing director   cited series of agitations and protests against the establishment of the copper smelter plant, especially the Phase II by Vedanta Limited at SIPCOT’s Industrial complex in Tuticorin, expressing concerns about the pollution caused by the existing copper smelter of the company. The people of the area have also been raising concerns about their health on account of the operations of the existing plant, the order noted.
 
 “As the allotment of the land for the proposed expansion has been made by SIPCOT, in larger public interest, the allotment for proposed expansion of Copper Smelter Plant (phase II) by   is hereby cancelled,” the order said. The land price collected for the land allotment will be refunded as per norms of SIPCOT, it added.
 
 “The actions against Sterlite are being taken as per the guidance of the state government by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and the environment and forests department.
 
 The cancellation of the land allotment, originally sanctioned for Phase II expansion, by SIPCOT, was done on Tuesday, since the existing Sterlite plant itself has been ordered to be permanently closed. The plant’s premises too having been sealed on Monday,” a source in the state government told TOI.
 
 
