JAIPUR: Rajasthan   ruled that, only those who had done their graduation, BEd and REET (Rajasthan Eligibility Examination for Teachers) in the same subject could apply for teaching jobs in that subject in future.

 For instance, for the post of an English teacher, only those who had completed their graduation, BEd and REET in English language would be considered for the job. 
 
 The division bench of Justice MN Bhandari and DC Somnai gave the direction on a petition by   who challenged the relaxation in subject for BEd grade level II exam given to teachers for in 2017.
 
 Out of the 4800 teachers’ posts announced, 3500 posts have already been filled up.
 
 Vigyan Shah, counsel for the petitioner, said earlier there was relaxation in the subject for BEd which was challenged in the high court. Earlier those who had at least two subjects of their graduation in Bed were considered for appointment. 
 
 The court said in the remaining vacancies only those who had done their BEd and graduation and REET with the same subject would be considered.
 
 High Court summons JMC commissioner
 
 Jaipur: High court directed   commissioner to be present in the court over encroachment by the Dhawantri Hospital, Mansarowar.
 
 The division bench of   and G R Moolchandani issued the order on a petition by Saraswati Block Vikas samiti.
 
 The petition said the hospital do not have a parking space and has encroached upon the service lane and green belt of the colony causing serious inconvenience to the residents.
 
 High court summons RU Registrar
 
 Jaipur: High court summoned Rajasthan University Registrar on a contempt petition by Dr   who had retired from the department of Accounts, Business, Statistics and Taxation.
 
 Gupta approached the court after he was denied the retirement benefits by the university and the court had ordered the university to reimburse his retirement benefits on January 12 this year. But the university failed to comply with the orders after which Gupta again approached the high court.
 
 
