MOHALI: Punjabi singer and YouTube sensation   was shot at near his home in Sector 91 in a post-midnight attack on Saturday that was claimed by two gangsters in their Facebook posts.

 Verma, whose song ‘Gaal Ni Kadhni’ has garnered over 118 million views on YouTube, was attacked while he was returning home to Savitry Towers with a friend, Kulwant Singh, in his Toyota Fortuner SUV after performing in a promotional event at Elante Mall in Chandigarh around 12.30am. “Four to five persons followed them in a Hyundai Creta car from the mall. When the two reached near the Sector 74-91 dividing road, the car overtook them, blocked their way and one of its occupants alighted and fired six shots at Parmish who was driving the SUV,” said SSP Kuldeep   Chahal said. One bullet brushed the leg of Parmish, whereas Kulwant sustained a bullet injury in his leg. Both were taken to a private hospital in Mohali. Doctors said the two were out of danger.
 
 “After the event, Verma had dropped his bodyguards at a housing society in Sector 70, Mohali. Immediately after the attack, he called me on my cell phone. I reached the spot and took them to the hospital,” the SSP said. Police have recovered six bullet shells from the spot.
 
 Police are yet to find out the motive behind the attack, which gangsters   and Sampat Nehra claimed was their doing in their Facebook posts.
 
 Dilpreet uploaded a status on his Facebook account along with a picture of himself holding a pistol and another picture of Verma with a cross drawn on it. He wrote, “Mein Dilpreet Singh Dhahan sariya nu dasna chaunda k ajj Parmish Verma de goliya apan mariya. … aaj tu bach geya maran toh, agli vaar hun dekhde a kiwe bnndi’ (I, Dilpreet Singh Dhahan, want to tell everyone that I am behind the shooting of Parmish Verma, today you survived, will see you next time).” Dilpreet is accused in the Sector 38 (West) sarpanch murder case. He along with two others had shot dead sarpanch Satnam Singh outside a gurdwara in Sector 38 (West) on April 10 last year. Nehra too is wanted by both the Chandigarh and   police. Nehra and his accomplices had freed an undertrial, Deepak, by firing in the air and spraying red chilli powder in the eyes of three cops at General Hospital, Sector 6, Panchkula in broad daylight on June 6, 2017.
 
 
