RANCHI: Chief minister   on Sunday pledged to help minor forest producers of the state by selling the bulk of their yearly harvests through the newly constituted Mukhayamantri Udyami Board. 

 Das made the pledge while attending a two-day training programme of the village level forest management committees organized by the state ministry for forests, environment and wildlife in Mahilong near Ranchi. The CM announced that his mission was to "spin a web of cottage industries" to end the migration wave from villages. 
 
 "The board will market the products of the state's minor forest producers. Products such as honey, lac and tussar will be purchased directly from the farmers. There will be no middlemen. Through the board, we will market the products both across the country and overseas," said Das, who also holds the portfolio of the forest in his 11-member cabinet.
 
 Das announced that his government will offer Rs 4 lakh each to the tribal farmers who take up poultry in months to follow. 
 
 "The three-lakh population, who do not own land or a house, will be taught to stitch blankets and will be assisted in taking up bamboo plantation," the CM said. 
 
 Stating that "half of the market is the government itself", the CM went on to announce that his government will directly purchase all of the honey produced by the state's farmers. 
 
 The government will itself create the market by giving pouches of honey to government schoolchildren in their mid-day meals,   said. He also announced that packaged honey will be sold in nations that have cold climates.
 
 Chief secretary   was present at the function. In her remarks, Verma stressed that the participation of local inhabitants was necessary to conserve Jhakhand's forest cover. Verma was recently issued a showcause notice by the state government over her alleged involvement in the fodder scam while she was posted as deputy commissioner (DC) of West Singhbhum from 1990 to 1991. 
 
 Verma has reportedly not alerted the fraudulent withdrawals from the district treasury when the fodder scam cases happened and not replied to notices by the then chief secretary after the   recommended action.
 
 The chief secretary's sharing of dias with Das is likely to irk the opposition which has been demanding her removal from the post and created a pandemonium in the assembly over the demand.
 
 
