NEW DELHI: Flat No 505 in Ebony Towers in Sahibabad’s Shalimar City, where the kidnapped kid was confined for 12 days, showed no sign that the occupants had gone out of their way to keep things secret. When TOI stepped into the flat on Tuesday, it found toffees and snacks strewn around and there were remnants of a birthday party with bakery boxes lying near a bed. There were unused utensils, fire crackers, even condoms lying on a table. The room in which the child was held had a sofa and bed.   apparently also found sanitary napkins and bangles in the flat, indicating the presence of a woman.

 A rent agreement of the flat accessed by TOI shows Nitin Sharma, one of the men arrested for the kidnapping, has occupied the flat for a year and a half. Sushila Devi, a resident of Patparganj who owns Flat No 505, said that at the time she gave out her flat to Sharma on rent, he told her that he had a garments business in Gandhi Nagar. The landlady told the cops that Sharma’s antecedents had been verified by  .
 
 “He introduced a woman as his wife, but we did not see her after that. Sharma told us she was pregnant and had gone to her home,” said Devi. “He had not paid the rent for the past few months, telling us that he would transfer the entire sum once he struck a business deal.”
 
  said that some men came here around once every month, stayed for a day or two and left. The men usually came on bikes and parked outside the complex. Naveen Kumar, security officer, said, “We asked them to get stickers issued by the colony, but they kept deferring it, possibly to remain unidentified.”
 
 Meena, a colony resident, they realised more people were living in 505 and the neighbours sometimes heard the cries of a child in the flat, but did not associate the men with any crime. “Two men usually did the groceries for the family,” added Raka Goel, who lives on the first floor. “It was only when police came that we discovered the men were kidnappers.”
 
 On Thursday night, Anil Kumar, a fifth-floor resident, stepped out on hearing gunshots. “There were at least a dozen policemen near the lift, their pistols drawn. They asked me go back into my apartment and lock the door. There were three-four loud bangs after which we heard the kid crying,” narrated Kumar.
 
 Ankur Goel, who runs a grocery shop in the basement, disclosed that the couple had visited his store regularly to buy a lot of sweets and toys, telling them it was for their kid’s birthday.
 
 
