LUDHIANA: Continuing his consultations and engagement with the local industry,   chief minister Captain   on Saturday promised steps to strengthen the state government’s support to local investors and existing industry to leverage Punjab’s intrinsic strengths. The chief minister made this assurance during the second round of informal consultations with industry leaders before finalizing the operational guidelines of the new industrial policy, which is expected to become fully functional by 1 July.

 The CM said time-bound delivery of regulatory and fiscal clearances was the top priority of his government, which was looking at incorporating the concept of deemed clearances to ensure a hassle-free business experience. Assuring all assistance to industry in setting up their units in the state, he welcomed suggestions and directed the chief principal secretary to examine and incorporate them in the operational guidelines.
 
 The captain also urged the industry to come forward to complement the state’s aggressive efforts in development and creation of jobs, to bring the state back on the track of growth and progress. The CM expressed satisfaction at the improved investor sentiment in the state, as evident in the interest shown by major industrial houses in investing in Punjab.
 
 On the suggestion of Sunil Kant Munjal of Hero MotoCorp that the government provide more land to two-wheeler manufacturing units, the chief minister directed the department to examine the same. Kamal Oswal of   suggested full benefits of modernization to units, and enhancement of the land limit for industrial parks from 10 to 25 acres. Kamna Raj Aggrawal of Engineering Export Promotion Council (North India) raised the issue of extension of benefits to 100% export units on the lines of the manufacturing industry, which was endorsed by Anoop Bector of Mrs Bector’s Food Specialities Ltd.
 
 LD Mittal of Sonalika ITL suggested the extension of incentives and benefits to tractor agri equipment manufacturers, where GST on input cost was higher than GST on finished goods.   of Khanna Papers called for an increase in freight subsidy for transport of finished goods to Kandla, Mundra, and Mumbai ports to attract more investors.
 
 Gautam Kapoor of Raddison Hotel suggested incentives for the hotel industry on a par with the manufacturing sector. Sachit Jain of Vardhman Group invited the chief minister for the ‘Invest North-II’ conference in Singapore in August, which the CM accepted. 
 
 
