

 Actor Vineet Raina lost all his personal data after his Instagram account was hacked recently. He says, “After being inactive for a long time, I put up at least 80 pictures — personal and working stills — and posts recently. I used to post every few days,” he says, adding, “But unfortunately, my account got hacked recently and all the posts were deleted. I, somehow, managed to recover the account before the hacker could harm any further. For an actor, it’s very important to be connected directly to the audience via social media. If someone hacks into any of these accounts, they can post anything they want, which can be dangerous.” 
 
 
 
 
 Aparna Dixit, who was last seen on 'Kalash', is back on TV with the historical show 'Porus'. The actress plays Roxane and will be seen opposite Alexander ( ). She says, “My reason for taking up this project a year after my last show went off air, is that it’s a strong character. I have become selective about work and waited for an interesting character to come my way, which allows me to experiment with something different. Besides, I made my debut on TV with the same production house’s 'Mahabharat'. So, life has come full circle for me.”
 
 
 
 
 Currently seen on 'Prithvi Vallabh' as Ashish Sharma’s mother Rani Vaazdaa, Shalini Kapoor has now been roped in by the makers to join the cast of their other TV show 'Chandrashekhar'. She will be seen as freedom fighter Bhagat Singh’s mother. She says, “It’s a finite series, which will wind up after the Bhagat Singh story unfolds. My character is that of a lovable and strong mother. She is instrumental in shaping Singh’s thoughts towards independent India and supports him throughout. I have done costume dramas, but this is the first time that I am a part of a pre-Partition era story. I feel proud to play such strong characters on TV.”
 
 
 
 
 Delnaaz Irani is set out to do something that she has never attempted in her career before. She will be playing a seductress on the show 'Partners', where she will reunite with Johnny Lever, nine years after they worked together in 'Paying Guests'. The actress says, “I will be seen opposite the khabri Johnny Lever (he is seen in four different characters). It’s a challenging role as I play Shanno Rani, a nautankiwali and a seductress. I was embarrassed initially, as people around were throwing money and whistling while I performed on stage on the show. But I am certain that I will be able to pull it off well.” 
 
 
 
 
 After featuring in the mythological show 'Santoshi Maa', Karanuday Jenjani is all set to turn baddie for the first time on the small screen with 'Ishqbaaaz'. He will play Abhimanyu Raheja, a Bollywood superstar, who will don a retro look on the show. He will be a womaniser and his entry will lead to a lot of drama in the Oberoi family. Karanuday says, “I always wanted to play the bad guy and this is just that. He tries to flirt with Gauri (Shrenu Parikh), who is married to Omkara Singh Oberoi (Kunal Jaisingh).”
 
