Visakhapatnam: D Reddy, owner of a fishing boat, is planning on selling his boat. Why? The tripple whammy of poor catch, Goods and Services Tax and rising input costs have led to fishermen being steeped in debts. Matters have come to such a head that   operators are unable to decide whether to continue the profession or leave it as fishing is no longer lucrative. It is, hence, no surprise that around 100 owners are willing to sell their boats to pay off their debts. Moreover, more than 100 vessels have already been sold in the last two years. 

 The president of Dolphin Mechanised Boat Operators’ Association Chodipalli Satyanarayana said that 80% of the boats remained anchored at the harbour since January as a result of depleted fish stock. “Increasing chemical pollution in the coastal area is destroying the marine ecosystem, resulting in a drop in catch,” he said.
 
 Satyanarayana revealed to TOI that he had stopped operating one of his two boats in August 2017 because of severe losses. The second boat was taken off duty in February, this year. “Neither are we making any  , nor are there catch, what is the point of holding on to the boats,” he asked.
 
 Sources say that owing to overfishing there are no catch along the Visakhapatnam coast area. Consequently, fishermen have been going deeper into the sea in search of their catch. Many boats have been venturing close to the Odisa coast, which is a 36-hour journey and costs Rs 20,000 per day. Such an expensive enterprise has become a burden to the owners. Morover, fishermen complain that even if they undertake the arduous journey and spend the money, there is no guarantee that one would get a good catch.
 
 Making matters worse for them are fuel prices. Another boat owner Krishna said that each boat needs 200 litres of fuel per day that costs Rs 14,000. Since they are not catching enough fish, they make about Rs 10,000. Therefore, if one were to undertake a voyage for 15 days, he would end up incurring a loss of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 “When one litre of diesel was Rs 34, we used to get Rs 6 as subsidy from the state government at a rate of 22.25 sales tax. Now fuel prices have increased to Rs 70 and we are still getting Rs 6 as subsidy. That, too, they give the subsidy for only 3,000 litres whereas we need 5,000 to 6,000 litres per month,” Vasupalli Vijay said. D Reddy told TOI that they are not worried about the 62-day fishing ban that starts on April 15 midnight and will continue till June 14. “Our concern is how to clear our debts. We have no alternative. Our only option is to sell the vessels. We are incurring losses at the rate of Rs 7 lakh to Rs 10 lakh every year on each boat,” he rued. 
 
 The fishermen community is now demanding that the state government provide them Rs 6,000 instead of the current Rs 4,000 per month during the fishing ban. Besides, the amount should be given in cheques.
 
 The fishing industry in Andhra Pradesh is a major contributor to the Indian economy and Visakhapatnam plays a crucial role in it. 
 
 
