Madurai: The Veera Vasantharayar mandapam, constructed over 400 years ago in 1611, has been extensively damaged in the fire that raged through it on Friday night. A stability study of the mandapam is being carried out by a team of engineers. Since most of the 150 shops on the temple premises were in the mandapam and adjoining areas, 36 of them were gutted in the incident. 

 District collector K Veera Raghava Rao, who inspected the temple premises again on Saturday morning, said that five fire engines and over 60 fire service personnel had toiled for over three hours to put out the fire which started at 10.40 pm on Friday and continued till 1 am on Saturday. He said that police investigation was on to determine the cause of the fire and action would be initiated based on their report.
 
 Many of the intricately designed pillars of the 7,000sqft Veera Vasantharayar mandapam had suffered extensive damage. Asked about the security aspect, of some of the shops being run by non-Hindus, the collector said that this too would be investigated. Darshan at the temple was going on as usual and only the damaged mandapam was cordoned off, the collector said.
 
 Devotees pointed out that the shops sold inflammable products like plastics articles, books and wooden toys. CCTV footages of the area are also to be reviewed. Hindu organisations staged a protest demanding that the temple clear all the shops from its premises and that action be taken against the people responsible for the fire. Trustee board chairman Karumuttu T Kannan and joint commissioner of the temple, N Natarajan, among others were also present.
 
 Meanwhile, HR and CE Minister Sevvoor S Ramachandran, who inspected the temple in the evening along with ministers Sellur K Raju and R B Udayakumar, reiterated the collector’s statements. He said that the temple had been equipped with fire extinguishers as in all temples in the state. A decision on whether to remove the shops would be based on the report of the committee constituted to investigate the cause of the fire.
 
 
