PANAJI: While Union ministry of tourism’s project “Adopt a Heritage” will allow corporate houses to adopt at least three major heritage sites in Goa, including the Basilica of Bom Jesus, minister for archives and archaeology   and tourism minister   said the state government was not taken into confidence.

 “The government of Goa is completely in the dark about this,”   said, adding that a meeting of government officials and stakeholders would be called soon to discuss the issue.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 Expressing reservations about the move, Sardesai said that past experience has shown that proposals implemented by the Centre often have larger implications than stated in the initial phase. “The past experience with Delhi is that they come with a small thing and they take over your whole asset. Old Goa is an asset of the state,” Sardesai said, adding that the Basilica is a religious place of huge importance and that the relics of St Francis Xavier are preserved there.
 
 “It is not only a place of cultural importance, it is a place of religious importance,” he added.
 
 The government has called for a meeting with all stakeholders in the coming week. “Minister of tourism, me as the minister for archaeology, the local MLA, parish priest of the cathedral, rector of Bom Jesus Basilica, bishop of the diocese and the chief secretary will meet immediately with ASI so that we are very clear what the scheme is about,” Sardesai said.
 
 As per the Union ministry,   has expressed interest in adopting the cluster of churches at Old Goa and  . There is no clarity on the exact number of churches that will be taken up.
 
 “No one has discussed the matter with me”, Azgaonkar said.
 
 The Union ministry of tourism floated a project for development of tourist-friendly destinations in September 2017 wherein corporate entities would be allowed to adopt heritage sites after inking an agreement with the Union ministry.
 
 The Old Goa cluster of churches and Aguada jail have been listed for adoption in phase II, while the   will be taken up in phase III.
 
 
