Driving along one of the busiest thoroughfares of Anjuna one is barely likely to notice the compound wall of the iconic Albuquerque house amongst the clutter of restaurant boards and advertisement placards. But local old-timers and longtime residents of the area are invariably filled with awe as they pass by this extraordinary landmark of the village. 

 Almost a century ago, when Anjuna was a quiet and sleepy village and yet to be discovered by hippies and get heavily concretised, the Albuquerque house, as it is known in this stretch, stood tall in the coastal landscape. A replica of a palace from exotic African lands, the mansion was a major attraction for residents in the region. It remains a historic landmark of Anjuna and continues to be filled with echoes of its glorious past.
 
 Dr Manuel Francisco de Albuquerque, the illustrious son of Anjuna who built the house, was a physician to the sultan of Zanzibar, Sayyid Ali bin Hamud. Born on August 14, 1869, in Anjuna, Albuquerque obtained his licentiate in medicine and surgery from the Bombay University in 1896 and later studied in Edinburgh, Rotunda hospital, Dublin and qualified himself for MD with a distinction from the University of Brussels.
 
 By 1898, the Anjunkar set up himself up in Zanzibar, now a part of Tanzania in east Africa, to start his professional life. Within years, he started making a mark. In 1903, his work in detecting bubonic plague in Zanzibar at the right time helped save thousands of lives. In gratitude to his contribution, the government conferred on him the title ‘Third Class of the Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar’.
 More accolades poured in as the years passed by. Sayyid Khalifa bin Harub, the next sultan, presented him with a gold sword for his contribution to the country and for being his personal physician. “The sword had intricate filigree work,” his daughter-in-law Ruth Albuquerque says.
 
 The Portuguese government did not lag behind and appointed him consul general for Portugal to the sultan of Zanzibar for some time. Later, they bestowed on him the prestigious “Knight of the Order of Christ” for his services to the Portuguese nationals in East Africa during World War I as consul general.
 Albuquerque garnered so much respect for his work that the sultan is said to have agreed to his plan to construct a replica of the royal palace in Zanzibar in Anjuna. “He was given workers to do the work,” Ruth said.
 
 The work may have taken some years. During his trip to Goa, he is said to have arrived with artisans and materials from abroad. Italian marble, some pieces of hand-carved furniture by Arab artisans and other riches filled the house. In 1919, the miniature palace in a large one-acre plot with spacious rooms and halls, long corridors, imposing stairways and turrets was completed. The ground-plus-one structure is still considered one of the grandest mansions in the state.
 
 “The house still has a sentimental value for villagers as it stands unique in a landscape dotted with buildings housing flats,” villager and Konkani novelist,   says.
 His son, late Dr  , popularly known as Dr Joe, reportedly laughed and told visitors that the house may not have been an exact replica. The sultan had a luxurious harem in the palace. Agrees his wife, Ruth, “Nobody will allow others to copy the plan of such a palace.”
 
 When Albuquerque decided to leave Zanzibar in May 1946, he was honoured with a farewell demonstration in the presence of prince Sayyid Abdulla and members of the Goan community, who considered him as their head for various social services.
 
 Back in Goa, villagers are known to have seen him live in style, being accustomed to rubbing shoulders with the elite in Africa and Europe. But villagers who heard about him from their elders speak respectfully of his humility. He would ask visitors to sit in chairs, though they would prefer the floor in those days. 
 
 “It is a pity I didn’t meet him,” says Ruth.
 
 But the 80-year-old grandniece of Venerable Fr Agnelo D’Souza has maintained and preserved the house diligently. A part of the house has been given to   for social work. 
 
 Ruth installed a life-size marble statue of Albuquerque sculpted by Solapur artisans in the garden of the north-facing house on March 27, 2011. “This is his house and only his name should be inscribed on it,” she says possessively of the grand building.
 
 Indeed, the brilliant ‘star of Zanzibar’ will continue to shine in front of his own palatial house.
 
 
 
 
 Aug 14, 1869 Dr Manuel Francisco de Albuquerque is born at Anjuna
 
 1896 Albuquerque obtains his licentiate in medicine and surgery from the Bombay University
 
 1898The Anjunkar starts his professional life in Zanzibar, now a part of Tanzania 
 
 1903 He saves thousands from the bubonic plague; is given the title ‘Third Class of the Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar’
 
 1919 The Albuquerque house, a replica of the royal palace in Zanzibar, is completed
 
 1946 He returns to his home village
 
 Mar 2011 His daughter-in-law, Ruth installs a life-size marble statue of Albuquerque in front of the house
