One of the most highly awaited films, Ram Charan-starrer Rangasthalam’s music release has taken the Internet by a storm, with the jukebox garnering over 1.3 million views on YouTube. So does it live up to the hype? Mostly, yes. But the sheer lack of variety takes the sheen of some good music on offer. Star composer Devi Sri Prasad has given music which is in sync with the overall village theme of the film. DSP, as he’s popularly called, has himself sung arguably the best song of the album  . Chandrabose has written the lyrics for all the five songs in the album, all of them synonymous with the film’s theme and the message director Sukumar wishes to convey. 
The first song Yentha Sakkagunnave is an absolute breeze. It’s a tad repetitive at times, but is a peppy number and has enough melody in it 
 to compel the audience to listen to it on loop. DSP, who sang the number himself, does a good job and owns the song. 
 
 Up next is the much faster Ranga Ranga Rangasthalaana. Sung by Rahul Sipligunj, this number makes you want to groove with its beats and fast-paced tunes. It’s not the song you’d want to dance to at nightclubs, it has a more festive feel to it and could be a popular number at in-house parties, events or outdoor celebrations. In terms of the overall music of this number,   gets a thumbs up.
 
 We hear a female voice for the first time in Rangamma Mangamma. Picturised on Samantha Akkineni, the film’s female lead, this song has been crooned by MM Manasi. While the background score is spot on,   sounds extremely similar to the various village numbers Tollywood churns out on a regular basis. At times, the high pitch in this song is quite jarring and could’ve been avoided. 
 
 By the time you get to  , the fourth song in the album, the listener’s patience begins to wear down. It’s another fast, peppy, dance number. Trouble is that this song, by Shiva Naagulu, is too over the top and despite some 
 foot-tapping beats, it doesn’t always work. As an isolated number, Aa Gattununtaava might still work but as part of the   album, which has many similar numbers (and better ones), it’s difficult for this to stand out. 
 
 The final song,  , is probably the film’s weakest. Loud, jarring and repetitive, it seems Rela Kumar and Ganta Venkata Lakshmi (singers of this number) are trying to out do each other on who can be louder, and for the listener, it feels more like a shouting match than an item song (which is what is supposed to be). The lyrics here too are extremely average. There’s a bit of rap in between, which hardly lifts the song. If anything, it serves as a deterrent. 
 
 Overall, Rangasthalam has some good music but is a one-dimensional album. If you’re looking for peppy dance numbers, this might interest you. But if you want a bit of variety, you’re in for a terrible disappointment. 
 
 
