SURAT: Even as the monthly passenger traffic has increased to more than 60,000 passengers and flight movement to over 20,   continues to face neglect from the central government when it comes to enhancing safety and security of passengers. 

 Despite long-pending demand for deployment of   ( ) personnel at Surat airport, the civil aviation ministry and the ministry of home affairs (MHA) have turned a blind eye to the need. 
 
 Recently, the office of director general of CISF stated that the CISF was a need-based force and its deployment is made as per the instructions of the MHA. In case of airports, the nodal agency   (BCAS) is empowered to conduct survey and the need for manpower is recommended to the MHA after sanction from the ministry of civil aviation.
 
 ‘We Work For A Working Airport At Surat’ (WWWAS) member Rajesh Modi has written to BCAS for initiating a survey at Surat airport and recommending CISF manpower requirement to the MHA.
 
 Modi has sent a detailed letter to the director general of BCAS reasoning why CISF security services were urgently required at Surat airport. In the last one-and-a-half-decade, the city has grown leaps and bounds and ranked as the eight fastest growing city of the world. The airport has posted 300 per cent growth in 2017 with operations of almost 22 flights and 62,000 passengers per month.
 
 On the other hand, Diu and Rajkot airports having one and five flights respectively and serving 2,000 and 20,000 passengers per month have been provided with CISF security, while Surat airport with 22 flights and 62,000 passengers per month was still awaiting nod for CISF security from the Centre. 
 
 “Recently during the assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi arrived at Surat airport a couple of times. The chief minister is regularly visiting Surat. The city has a coastal line just a few hundred metres away and also India’s largest industrial area known as Hazira. There is an urgent need to secure the airport with trained CISF personnel. Surat airport is inching closer to becoming an international airport in 2018. Hope the BCAS will initiate survey at Surat airport and recommend deployment of CISF personnel to MHA on an urgent basis,” Modi said.
 
 “The then airport director had written to the authorities concerned in 2014 seeking CISF security for the airport. Three years down the line, the government is yet to initiate any action,” WWWAS member Sanjay Jain said.
 
 
