Bhopal: Students of the   ( ) resumed their protest from Monday against director Prof S S Singh. They wore black dress to college on Monday as a mark of protest and threatened to go on indefinite strike if Prof Singh is not removed by February 1.

 Prof Singh, is on a leave till January 31.
 
 The fact-finding committee, which is probing the charges against director Prof Singh, was to submit its report by December 25, but it was not done, said students.
 
 “We will meet the members of the fact-finding committee on Tuesday in this regard,” said students. The two-member committee includes additional chief secretary (higher education), B R Naidu and principle secretary, law.
 
 Students met registrar Giribala Singh and raised the issue. “She assured us to get the fact-finding committee report at the earliest,” said students.
 
 “Our stand is clear. Probe against him is on. Let the probe committee submit its report. Why should he join while the probe is on?” said a student.
 
 Students had accused some teachers and administrative officials including director Singh of sexism, body shaming and maladministration. They had boycotted classes in the first week of November last year and a complaint was filed on November 10.
 
 In December 2017, the   (NCW) had registered a case against Prof Singh over complaints of sexism and caste-based remarks and ordered a probe. The NCW had registered a case after an RTI activist had filed a complaint against director Prof Singh.
 
 The week-long agitation by NLIU students was called off after the intervention of Chief Justice of MP High Court Justice Hemant Gupta in November last year. Justice Gupta had ordered to “expedite the process of appointing a new director” and set up an inquiry committee to look into the allegations made by the law students. Besides, he had appointed additional sessions judge Giribala Singh as the registrar.
 
 Citing another issue, a student said, “Wrongful appointments have allegedly taken place in January. Inquiry of Justice Gohil is also there still new appointments have been made.”
 
 
