JAIPUR: With the revival of Indian Premier League (IPL) matches at Sawai Man Singh Stadium, Jaipur police has written to the   (RCA) asking it to pay the outstanding amount of Rs 8 crore in lieu of providing security during the previous seasons of  .

 For the coming IPL season, Jaipur police is all set to provide the best security to visiting teams and host team  . At least 2,000 personnel of   police including senior police officers would be part of 3-tier extra security cover to the teams at the stadium and at their hotels. 
 
 It has been a long-pending issue between Jaipur police and IPL organisers as police have always maintained that IPL is a commercial event in which the organisers are making money, thus, they have to pay for security. In order to resolve the issue, the home department has asked Jaipur police to issue letter asking outstanding money and assured that they will also calculate the money to be charged for providing security to this year’s IPL matches in Jaipur. 
 
 “We have written to them about the dues and would be providing proper security during the event. We have made some changes in our previous plans of security.   room would be set up in the stadium to keep an eagle’s eye on every activity happening inside and at the periphery of the stadium,” said  , additional commissioner of police (law and order), who took meeting with Vikas Pathak, in-charge DCP (south). 
 
 Armed policemen and plainclothes cops would remain at the venue ahead of the matches till the departure of teams to the hotels. “Special teams like Special Task Force (STF) and Emergency Response Teams (ERT) would also be deployed. At least three DCP rank officers would be at the stadium for coordination with their men,” Blaggan added. 
 
 SMS stadium will be turned into a fortress as police and private security would take control of the stadium from April 10. 
 
 It is often seen that private security guards at the stadium indulge in foul play by letting people enter without proper ticket and pass. “We have also sought proper identification of every security guard deployed at the stadium,” said an officer. 
 
 
