CHANDIGARH: The aspirants who cleared the physical endurance (PE) and measurement test (MT) for the post of police constable in July last year are still waiting for the   police department to conduct the written exam.

 
 The UT police department has been dilly-dallying in announcing the exam date. This has halted the recruitment process of around 520 constables since July 2017. The aspirants who are running from DGP to SP headquarters to get the dates for the written test have been getting only tentative dates.
 
 Last year, the police officials assured that the written test would be conducted in October 2017, but that didn’t happen. Then they said that the exam will be held in April this year. Now, May is over and there is no sign of the written test being conducted any soon.
 
 UT police was supposed to conduct an online written test for successful candidates of PE and MT.
 
 Vijay Kumar of   told TOI that he along with other aspirants tried to raise the issue before DGP Tajender  , but they were not allowed to meet him. They were asked to meet SP   who has been looking after the whole recruitment process, but he failed to provide a satisfactory solution.
 
 Another aspirant   of Rohtak, said that after clearing the PE and MT they only got false promises from police officials. “Initially, the officials told us that the test would be conducted in September, then October-November and the last time they said it would be held in April. However, there is no news of the written exam even by the end of May,” Kumar said.
 
 When TOI contacted Eish Singhal, SP headquarters, he said that the process to conduct the online written exam for successful candidates was on-going and that the same would be held soon.
 
 Reportedly, one of the women candidates had submitted a complaint on Prime Minister’s public grievance redressal portal in which she had stated that the physical endurance and measurement tests were initiated in April 2017. After filing several requests and the issue being highlighted by newspapers, the tests were finally concluded in June.
 
 The UT police department had advertised for 520 posts of constables in December 2015 and received a total of 2.14 lakh applications. 
 
 Out of the 520 posts, 193 will be filled by male candidates, while 260 posts are reserved for women candidates. Around 67 seats will be filled by ex-servicemen.
 
 
