Tirupur:  , outpatient wards of other departments in Tirupur government hospital have been shifted from old campus near Old Bus Terminus to main campus on Dharapuram Road. 

 The shifting was necessitated to bring both the outpatient and inpatient wards under one roof. 
 
 Moreover, the shifting process was speeded up to pave way for the construction of a new overbridge alongside the bus terminus. Over 1,700 sq m of land has been acquired from the hospital’s old campus for the overbridge project. 
 
 Joint director of health services, Tirupur, S Soundararajan said, “Emergency treatment was not available in outpatient wards of the old campus. So, the state health department took a decision to shift the outpatient ward from the old campus to the main campus. The outpatient wards were functioning in the old campus since pre-independence.”
 
 “So far, we have shifted all the departments except three - ophthalmology, dental and antiretroviral therapy centre (HIV). We will shift those three departments in slow pace because of different reasons including the shifting should not affect treatments given to HIV positive patients and availability of operation theatre for eye surgeries. Moreover, a physician would be in duty at the old campus to attend outpatients, who were not aware about the shifting,” Soundararajan said. 
 
 CPM district secretary S Muthukannan told TOI: “Senior citizens will face inconvenience to travel to the main campus after shifting the outpatient wards.”
 
 “As per information obtained under the RTI Act, 75,000 patients visit OP wards in a month, which means more than 2,500 patients in a day. Since the shifting would affect many people, a public interest litigation (PIL) was preferred before the Madras high court,” Muthukannan added.
 
 Soundararajan said, “The department was taking steps to shift the wards for the past two years. It has constructed a furnished building at the main campus, where the OP wards have started functioning now. The turnout of outpatients has been increasing day-by-day. Moreover, even if the government will bring the medical college, as sought, all wards should be functioning in the main campus.”
 
 
