AGRA:   has claimed that   (AMU) PhD student  , whose photographs carrying an AK-47 assault rifle appeared on social media earlier this week, has indeed joined the terror group and that they welcome his decision. Presenting Wani as the latest poster boy for the organisation, a statement issued by its chief,  , said this proved that educated youths, too, were joining the "struggle for freedom". 

 "(The) Joining of   exposes the Indian propaganda that the youths of Kashmir are joining militant ranks due to unemployment and economic distress," Salahuddin said in the statement to a Srinagar-based news agency.
 
 The outfit has described Wani's entry as a "good omen" for Kashmir's freedom struggle. "From years on, educated and qualified youths of Kashmir have been joining Hizbul Mujahideen to take this ongoing freedom movement to (its) logical conclusion. This spirit of youths is laudable," Salahuddin said.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, UP Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) has begun the process of identifying the “core” group of people with whom Wani was in touch with before he disappeared from his AMU hostel. They traced Wani’s “missing” roommate, Muzammil Hussain, to Nagpur, where he is working with a PSU. They are talking to him and scanning call detail records of around 50 other people with whom the PhD student could have interacted with in the recent past.
 
 Sources told TOI that the purpose of the exercise is to assess if more students or his associates have been radicalized. Besides, sources said, sleuths are trying to understand the circumstances that led the researcher to join the terror outfit.
 
 Aligarh SSP Rajesh Pandey confirmed that Muzammil Hussain has been traced to Nagpur. He said the university had initially claimed that they didn’t have any record of him, which led to suspicion that he had gone missing. Pandey said they would be questioning Muzammil as he shared the hostel room with Wani for 9-10 months.
 
 When contacted, Muzammil told TOI over phone that he had informed the university about his appointment as a geologist in Mineral Exploration Corporation Limited (MECL). He added that university authorities should have shared the information with probe agencies. He admitted that he knew Wani, who was his senior, and claimed that he never found anything “suspicious” about him. “I am shocked to know about this latest development,” he said.
 
 A senior police officer said ATS was examining the material seized from Wani’s room, which includes books and religious writings in Urdu and English. He said that preliminary investigations have revealed that Wani used to work on a laptop, which he always carried with him.
 
 Meanwhile, a video of Wani, shot some time back, went viral on social media on Tuesday. In the video, Wani, while speaking on the role of AMU in national politics, says, “This platform was created to provide leadership to the community, which was needed. Minority community needs a leader and the role of AMU is very important. Unfortunately, we haven’t been able to produce leaders who can actually work for the community, represent it and raise its issues.”
 
