HYDERABAD:   lovers in the city are facing an unpalatable problem — spiralling prices due to a dip in supply. Severe   in Hyderabad has killed 15% of   and pushed up the prices. As the mercury breached the 40°C mark, number of birds have died and dozens of hatchery owners reported huge losses.

 In retail markets, 1kg of chicken nowadays costs Rs 213. A month ago, the prices of boiler chicken, reared in hatcheries across the city, were sold for Rs 163 a kg on an average. “It’s been a harsh summer and the conditions are showing no signs of relief. Due to the scorcher, 15% of birds have died in most of the poultry farms,” said S Balasubramayam, general manager of Venkateshwara Hatcheries.
 
 Retail meat stores in the city complained of less footfall, and seeing the increased prices of chicken.
 
 Even many haleem outlet owners across the city said they are feeling the pinch because of rising prices. They are in a state of confusion and fear it would hit their sales during Ramzan. “I am yet to decide the price of chicken haleem per plate as chicken has started to cost more than Rs 200 a kg,” said Mohammed Irfan, who has set up a haleem stall at Chaderghat.
 
 The average price of chicken haleem per plate ranges between Rs 40 and Rs 80, while the price of mutton haleem, which is prepared with goat or sheep meat, ranges between Rs 80 and Rs 120. Over the years, outlets selling chicken haleem have sprung up in many parts of the city.
 
 Most poultry owners said that lack of adequate water in summer has also affected their business, resulting in less production and rise in price.
 
 Veterinary experts said most farms were unable to sprinkle water on the sheds of poultry farms, which are mostly covered with gunny cloth, resulting in increased mortality rate of birds due to heat stroke.
 
 “The farmers are backing out as they fear losses in summer. The price will come down only after rains hit the state, as the borewells have also dried up,” said  , proprietor of AP Poultry Equipment.
 
 While the loss sustained by poultry owners is different for each establishment, largely depending on the size of their poultry farm and mortality rate of birds, the poultry industry will assess it by the end of this month.
 
