NAGPUR: Historic drama ‘Chanakya’ chronicled the life of   Maurya, his teacher-cum-adviser Arya Vishnugupta (Chanakya) and the conquest of Patliputra. 

 The play, a presentation by noted film and television action   and his group, was staged at the   at Ishwar Deshmukh College of Physical Education ground, on Saturday.
 
 Joshi, who essayed the role of Chanakya, emulated the wit and intellect which Chanakya was known to have possessed. The first half presented events that led to Chandragupta’s and Chanakya’s intentions to conquer the Nanda dynasty and free its people from corrupt King Dhana Nanda.
 
 The second half was a lead-up to the conquest of Patliputra (now Patna) in Magadha  , the capital of the Nanda empire. The story shows the critical role Chanakya played in forming allies which helped Chandragupta conquer Patliputra and lay foundations of the Mauryan Empire.
 
 Chandragupta was shown to be in love with Somuhadevi who was married to Dhana, but would later prove to be a threat to the future Mauryan Empire. King Dhana was shown as an alcoholic who almost ravaged the economic stability of his empire. 
 
 Chanakya sees this as Dhana’s weakness and asks Chandragupta to train the indigenous tribes of Kalinga region (south of Magadha) to fight the Dhana’s army.
 
 Meanwhile, Chanakya and Chandragupta strike an unhealthy alliance with the then ruler in Nepal. Here, Chanakya promises to hand over the Kalinga region to the ruler as a token of Chandragupta’s respect for him. 
 
 Chandragupta successfully ceases control of Patliputra and executes King Dhana inside his palace. Chanakya shows deep respect for Dhana’s royal adviser (portrayed as) Rakshasacharya. The latter conspires with the Nepalese ruler to stage a coup against Chandragupta.
 
 Meanwhile, Chanakya orders his men to administer poison to Somuhadevi who is believed to be pregnant with Dhana’s child. When Chandragupta questions Chanakya’s plan, he explains how the death of Somuhadevi and thousands of innocent people was for the greater good of the empire and consequently of its people. 
 
 Chanakya also gives an ultimatum to the new king, who was overwhelmed with grief, to discharge his duties as the people’s leader.
 
 The story ends with Chanakya making Rakshasacharya realize how he betrayed the people by conniving with the Nepalese to overthrow the Mauryan empire.
 
 
