AHMEDABAD: In an  ,   on Monday observed that extramarital affair has become a common phenomenon these days and constitutes a cause of exerting domestic violence on wife.

 The high court refused to quash a case registered under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act by a woman and her two children against her husband and mother-in-law. The circumstances that led to filing of DV complaint was infidelity on part of the husband.
 
 The case pertains to a known and affluent family of Bhavnagar. The man developed intimacy with his children’s tuition teacher, which led to differences with his wife. The wife and two kids left the man. A family court has ordered him to pay Rs 65,000 maintenance per month to them. Against this background, the wife filed a DV case against the man, who came to the HC for quashing.
 
 While dismissing the petition, Justice J B Pardiwala said, “Extramarital affair seems like a very common phenomenon these days. However, even when an affair seems to be working, it will eventually cause severe damage…. Adultery undermines a relationship's foundation and is one of the main reasons of a relationship crisis around the world. An extramarital affair wreaks havoc bringing in several negative effects, causing unbearable emotional pain and mental trauma for the faithful partner who never even thought of going though such a phase.”
 
 The HC further said, “The reasons for cheating could be innumerable. In almost all cases, the cheating partner does not pay attention to what can easily leave the relationship in a mayhem. Certainly, the effects of extramarital affairs are devastating and victims may take long to get over the misery. Infidelity can occur even in the strongest of the marital relationships. An extramarital affair challenges the sanctity and strength of a relationship, causing turmoil in personal and social world of the people.”
 
 The court said that the worst thing with extramarital affairs is that they usually ruin the life of a person who did nothing wrong, like children. They have to face problems in future due to their parent’s behaviour.
 
 
