BATHINDA: Children of employees of Guru Nanak Dev Thermal Plant (GNDTP) that was shut down on Monday joined their parents in protest against   government’s decision on Tuesday. 

 The contractual workers of the GNDTP started the protest outside the Bathinda district administrative complex, fearing retrenchment or transfer to other places after the plant was shut down.
 
 Over 12 children skipped school on Tuesday to accompany their mothers in the indefinite protest. The main target of the protesters was Punjab finance minister and Bathinda (urban) MLA Manpreet Singh Badal as they claim that before the elections he had promised that the plant would remain functional but later backed out of his promise. 
 
 Simranjit Singh (9) and his younger sister   (5) may not be aware about the protests but they know that their father   will either have to accept the offer of transfer or may lose his job. They want their father to stay here. Gurjit is an unskilled worker getting Rs 6,500 per month by working at the GNDTP.
 
 Gurjit’s wife Kiranpal Kaur said she had no option other than protesting along with her children. 
 
 “Even though we have limited resources, thinking of a better future for our children we had enrolled them at a private school. Now, when there is uncertainty over the continuation of my husband’s job, I am worried about the education of my children. I may have to shift them to some government school, where we may not have to pay fee.”
 
 Sukhdeep Kaur (11) and her brother Harjot Singh (10) could also be seen sitting among protesters holding placards with slogans against the state government’s decision to close down the thermal plant. For them, saving job of their father was more important than their studies as they missed the school to participate in the protest to make the authorities take note of their plight. Sukhdeep, who is studying in Class IV in a school at the thermal plant complex, said, “Our poor family is dependent on the job of my father, who is an unskilled contractual worker at the thermal plant. With the plant being shut down, my father may lose job in a few weeks and we may face some hardships. For the survival of our family of four his job is essential.”
 
 “Before the assembly elections in 2017, the   had promised to keep the thermal plant operational but after gaining power, it has forgotten that and has closed it permanently. With it, nearly 600 contractual employees may have to go elsewhere or lose jobs,” said GNDTP contractual employees’ union convener Rajinder Singh.
 
 On the other hand, allaying the fears of contractual workers, GNDTP general manager   said, “No worker will be retrenched. They only may be shifted to some other places as per their options. The state government has already made it clear that jobs of all will be safe.” 
 
 
