GANDHINAGAR:  , the speaker of the Gujarat assembly and senior advocate, courted controversy on Saturday by saying that Dr B R Ambedkar and Prime Minister   are ‘Brahmins’. Trivedi was speaking at the inauguration of the ‘Mega Brahmin Business Summit’ at   in Gandhinagar.

 In his address, Trivedi said, “I have no hesitation in saying that B R Ambedkar was a Brahmin. There is nothing wrong in calling a learned person a Brahmin. In that context, I will say that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is also a Brahmin.”
 
 However, Dalit leaders have objected to Trivedi’s statement.
 
 The ‘Father of the Indian Constitution’, Dr B R Ambedkar, was born in a Dalit family and became the torchbearer of the community’s cause.
 
 Speaking to TOI on Monday, Trivedi, brushed aside the issue and said people were jumping to conclusions without understanding what he had said, and why. He said, “I request all not to misquote me and listen to what I said. I have very high regards for   and PM Modi.”
 
 Jignesh Mevani, Dalit activist and Vadgam MLA, when contacted, said, “The Gujarat assembly speaker’s attempt to paint Dr Babasaheb as a Brahmin is totally idiotic, nonsensical, a reflection of his upper caste mentality, and an attempt to showcase Brahmins above Dalits.”
 
 Mevani added, “It is an insult to Babasaheb who devoted his life in attempting to create a society where all citizens are equal and treated as human beings, not as Brahmins or Dalits. The assembly speaker has RSS roots and Dalits are shocked by his comment, but not surprised. He must issue a public apology for hurting sentiments about Babasaheb.”
 
 “I request all those who object to my statement regarding Babasaheb Ambedkar and PM Modi to listen to my speech on YouTube,” said Trivedi. “I said all ‘gyani’ (knowledgeable) men are Brahmins.”
 
 Trivedi further added, “In the fourth chapter of the Bhagavad Gita, in the 13th ‘rucha’ (sentence), Lord Krishna defined varna. He also defined ‘gnyati’ (caste) by the person’s ‘guna’ (qualities) not by ‘varna’ (profession).”
 
 “As we say that a person with high intellect becomes a scientist, doctor or engineer, likewise, a person is called a Brahmin irrespective of the varna of his birth.   said every brilliant person is a Brahmin. He never said that only those who are born in Brahmin families are Brahmins,” he added.
 
 
