In India, when someone alleges sexual harassment, the person is suddenly looked at differently, but the   movement grew stronger because people who have suffered sexual harassment were not made to feel isolated, opines actress  . 

  “If strict action is taken against offenders, young actresses will not hesitate to come forth to talk about something like  . But first, they need to be assured that they won't become victims of ostracism and unemployment. Hollywood took years to find the strength to speak up. I think we are also slowly getting there,” states Nimrat, drawing reference from the protest of a Telugu actress against alleged sexual harassment in Tollywood.
 
  Nimrat recently paid a visit to the Film and   (FTII) and, in a candid conversation with us, she spoke about multiple topics; right from her love for   and celebrities using social media to voice their opinions to the various phases that filmmaking has gone through.
 
  “In the 1980s and 1990s, cinema did not have an impactful voice. The movies were made from a commercial point of view to garner mass appeal. We have seen better cinema, with thought provoking content, in the 60s and 70s. Now again, we are getting a chance to showcase good content through various platforms,” she says, adding that not only are realistic stories being made, but they are also working well at the Box Office too.
 
  Talking about the success of regional films at the National Awards, she feels there’s a lot more to be explored there. “Hindi cinema dominates the entertainment scene, but I make it a point to watch regional movies for their rich content. I feel my parents should also watch these movies. But since the PR and distribution system of these films is not so strong, they don’t get the kind of audience that they deserve,” adds Nimrat.
 
  The Airlift actress was in town to conduct a workshop for the acting department students at FTII and it turned out to be an enriching session. So what tips did she give the students? “I told them to stay true to who they are and give their best no matter what is thrown at them. Once you are in the industry, there is no one watching out for you. So I shared all the practical experiences I had when I started out,” she shares, signing off.
 
  
  
 
  
 
 I have watched movies like Shala, Shwaas and Killa. Some of the most superior movies in recent times have come from the Marathi industry. I am a huge fan of Mohit Takalkar’s work too. I would love to work in the Marathi industry, but I do not know the language.
 
 
