KOLKATA/SERAMPORE: Even as the special investigation team (SIT) of Kolkata Police continued its raids across four districts in and around Kolkata, there are indications the case will now be handed over to the state CID or the enforcement branch for further probe. The development came on the day when SIT raided several places in Howrah in search of carcass meat and its distributors.

 
 “The general belief is, operations of massive scale and multiple destinations, can only be handled by a focussed investigating agency, which can handle specific requirements. However, with the SIT having already completed some good investigations, we will take a final decision only after reviewing the entire probe so far,” said an official at Nabanna.
 
 Sources said a “well-connected” distributor with links to Tamil Nadu is now under scanner. “Now, we have evidence to believe that specialized trucks were put in to use for this purpose. These distributors were in touch with various transporters, who were paid more than the market rates to carry the food across the state and out of it. We are trying to locate some of the drivers so that we can identify the places where this meat were distributed,” said an investigating officer.
 
 SP (South 24 Parganas)   said raids will continue for the next two days. “We are yet to receive the test results,” he told 
 . Sources said they are expecting the result by early next week. “Once it arrives, it will become easier in fixing the role of each of the 10 arrested accused in this case,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the carcass meat scare has made the state health department pull up its socks. The food safety department is all set to issue a notice to all district health officials to keep a vigil on the type of meat being sold or supplied in their respective area.
 
 Even hospitals are leaving no stone unturned to ensure that the meat served to its patients are of good quality. “The person who is running the kitchen in our hospital is on the job for 20 years without any bad track record. But this time with carcass meat scare doing the rounds we will double the checking process,” said Dr PB Chakraborty, medical superintendent and vice principal at   and Hospital.
 
 On Tuesday, a special team of   raided several hotels and restaurants in the town . Team members took samples of chicken stored there and sent them to the   laboratory for testing.
 
 “Raids were conducted in 14 places. The civic team sealed the refrigerator of Om Casual Restaurant in Serampore’s Netaji Subhas Avenue after finding milk packets, which have crossed the expiry dates. Apart from milk, team members also collected samples of raw chicken, which had become black. Restaurant owner Dipankar Sarkar admitted that some packets of milk had been kept beyond expiry dates but wouldn’t accept charges that meat stored in the fridge was stale.
 
  authorities also raided 16 hotels and restaurants there and found some were using unhealthy oil, which were refrigerated incorrectly.
 
 
