Nine-time MP from Chhindwara and senior   leader   said it is important that the party declare a chief ministerial candidate soon for the   election due in December. In an interview to Aman Sharma, he said he would back party colleague   if he is announced as the CM face. He said he was not ruling himself out but he was not hungry for it. Excerpts:
 
  
 
  When CM talks of agricultural growth, what he does not talk about is agricultural distress. In MP, 75% of people are directly or indirectly engaged in agriculture. The economy of the state is dependent on agriculture. Agriculture production could have gone up due to better seeds and better irrigation, but at the end of the day the question is what price the farmer gets in his hand, what he takes home. That is the crucial thing and that is what is in great distress. As far as 2018 elections in MP are concerned, every section of society is unhappy — youth unemployment is at its peak. Even the jobs of those who are retiring are not being filled up, forget about creating more employment. More jobs have been lost than jobs created. All the sloganeering and schemes of crop insurance have been disastrous — no farmer has got insurance though insurance companies have made a lot of profit. Bhavantar is a scheme which entails that the farmer has to lose Rs 250-300 per quintal. No farmer is happy with it. Traders are unhappy over GST and demonetisation. Government employees are protesting — shaving their heads and out with begging bowls. This politics of gimmickry and sloganeering stands exposed.
  
  
 
  There is a perception of infighting among the senior leaders in the state. I think this perception that Congress leaders keep on fighting is more in the media. I don’t see any disunity among the leaders at all. There is coordination and this will only improve in the next couple of months. Of course, we need to put our house in order and we are in the process of doing it.
  
  You had stated a few months ago that Jyotiraditya Scindia should be declared the party’s CM candidate… Well, I had answered a question as to whether I had any objections to Mr Scindia becoming CM. I said I had no objections. That was my answer. And I certainly have no objections. If Mr Scindia is announced as CM candidate, I will welcome it.
  
  
 
  Yes, it will because the first thing is to get our house in order. The CM candidate announcement is important, it should come. We should also put our house in order at the district and block levels so that all is functioning properly.
  
  
 
  I am not ruling myself out but I am not hungry for it… I am not looking for it. I am simply saying that whoever is announced, I am going to back him. Anybody can be announced as the leader, I will be quite happy to back him.
  
  
 
  Of course. Digvijaya Singh has gone, the workers have been mobilised, the public has come out. What Digvijaya Singh has done, I consider it humanly impossible. What he has done is phenomenal and it will certainly help the party.
  
  
 
  I don’t know. This only Mr   can answer.
  
  
 
  Rahul Gandhi will be our face for the 2019 election. Whatever people may say about him or the propaganda BJP spreads about him, will stand exposed. We must not forget that in 2004, Mrs   was the most vilified political person — Sushma Swaraj had said she would shave her head, someone said he would become an NRI or leave politics. She had then taken on Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who was a much-loved prime minister, and she made Mr Vajpayee sit at home. That is the Indian electorate. BJP must not forget that. I see Mr Rahul Gandhi as a very effective and strong face for Congress leadership in 2019. Let us not think of these glorified urban centres that pass opinions in the social circles of Delhi without knowing anything happening in the country. I think as time moves, in a couple of months the assurances given by BJP prior to the 2014 election will stand exposed. They have been unfulfilled. There is great restlessness among the people. The enthusiasm with which they voted for BJP in 2014 is no more there. The voter is much smarter this time. An Indian voter does not mind being disappointed but he does not want to be cheated.
  
  
 
  If required, certainly a larger coalition can be built because other non-BJP parties have seen BJP and they themselves will look forward to a coalition so that BJP is kept out. Rahul Gandhi can definitely build a good coalition. The Akalis are already unhappy. Also, there are two kinds of coalitions — prepoll and post-poll. In 2004, we had a pre-poll coalition with   and with others we had a post-poll coalition. So you have to look at the nature and circumstances at that time.
  
