Nagpur: Test reports of water samples taken from Asola, a village in Yavatmal which was in news last week for being endemic to kidney diseases show no presence of heavy metals. The tests were conducted in state public health laboratory at Pune. Heavy metals like, lead, arsenic, chromium or mercury in drinking water can be harmful to the kidney.  This rules out the theory from the government’s side that water may have caused the kidney troubles in Asola. The village gets water supply from two groundwater sources. It has been claimed that water has been causing kidney ailments. However, the villagers were also found to be taking pain killers and steroids in considerable quantities to de-stress after working in the fields. The drugs too can cause kidney problems. TOI had reported that steroids were easily available in the area and had also purchased a strip.  Dr Avinash Chaudhary at whose hospital in Amravati, a number of patients from Asola are undergoing treatment said they are planning to test the samples at another lab in Nagpur. At the same other causes including genetic factors need to be studied to ascertain the cause, he said.  activists have been demanding that the tests should be carried out in five different laboratories as the government report alone cannot be relied on.  Even as a copy of the report has not reached the district administration, lab officials have confirmed over telephone that heavy metals were not found in the samples, said sources. After the cases were reported last week, district health department took samples of water for being sent to Pune to conduct tests for heavy metals presence. Routine chemical tests also did not reveal any contamination which can lead to kidney problems.  The district epidemic officer Dr Kishore Koshatwar told TOI, “the report will come in a day or two however we have got telephonic confirmation from the lab at Pune that no trace of heavy metals was found in the water samples .” It all began after Ajay Rathore, a pathologist living in the village filed a complaint with the district collector, last week. The complaint mentioned about 14 deaths due to kidney failure having taken place in the village between 2011 to 2018. A number of persons suffering from kidney disorders were found in the village too. Rathore said he saw high creatinine levels in six persons who had come to his lab for blood tests some months ago. After finding more cases, Rathore tied up with a NGO and took samples of 172 persons out of which high creatinine was found in 61.  The health department has however, countered his claims saying that out of 61, the danger level of 2 mg/dl was in 12 cases only. Though normal level is 1.05 if its normal to get slightly higher levels in the elderly, say government doctors.  In the meantime two private hospitals Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences at Wardha and SAI Sharddha Hospital of Yavatmal too have sent teams to the village.