Nagpur: Defiant principal Laxmikant Tulankar has come under Nagpur University (NU) heat after he thrice refused to heed vice chancellor SP Kane’s repeated orders to reinstate associate professor Vandana Mahatme.

 On Monday, the NU finally served a show cause notice to Tulankar asking to him comply with the reinstatement order before April 13. The principal and head of Citizens’ Education Society, that runs the BP National Institute of Social Work, have been summoned by the VC.
 
 On February 10, the principal terminated the service of 59-year-old Mahatme without taking permission of the NU, thus breaching the provisions of Statute 53.
 
 In the termination order, Tulankar said that the institute had set up an inquiry led by advocate DN Mathur to probe charges of irregularities against Mahatme. The charge sheet was served to her on July 20, 2017, and July 26, 2017. “But, Mahatme attacked Mathur when he was conducting the inquiry on February 8, 2018,” the order reads.
 
 The termination order cited the attack on Mathur and Mahatme’s alleged misconduct throughout her career.
 
 On three occasions — March 16, April 6 and April 9 — the NU officials and the VC explained to Tulankar that Mahatme’s dismissal was not as per the rules. However, the principal refused to oblige with the orders.
 
 VC Kane told TOI that in case Tulankar fails to reinstate Mahatme, he would initiate proceedings against the college as per Section 108 of the Maharashtra Public Universities Act besides freezing its admissions. Interestingly, Tulankar was nominated by the VC himself on the Board of Studies on April 3 despite his qualification not meeting the criteria.
 
 Tulankar said the issue related to Mahatme being in court, the order can’t be revised. “The university is party in the case. She has gone against the university and the college. Therefore we can’t revise the order. If she had not moved the court and approached the university, we would have thought over it. On April 13, we will apprise the vice chancellor about our decision,” he said.
 
 On the other hand, Mahatme has claimed that the action has been taken to make her give up her stake as the next principal. “Tulankar has moved the court seeking two-year extension given to principals. Unlike other colleges, social work institute principals are not governed by those service norms. If he gets an extension, I would be deprived of a fair chance and therefore I too moved the court seeking extension,” she reiterated.
 
 
