MUMBAI: The involvement of a controversial   in a high-decibel bout to elect a new central council of the National Sports Club of India ( ) at Worli has muddied the waters.

 Naypadmasagarji Maharaj, who last year raised eyebrows when he urged his supporters to vote for political parties promoting vegetarianism, threw his weight behind current   Jayantilal Shah, who is seeking to be re-elected.
 
 The rival group cried foul and said the monk should stick to religion and not interfere in the matters of a club which serves alcohol and non-vegetarian food.
 
 In a two-minute video clip, the monk is heard saying “Jayantibhai” and his action team have stood for “national integration and are promoting health, sports and science” in the club. He urged his supporters to vote for this panel because they have done “incredible work” in the past.
 
 Shah won late on Monday, but his panel lost. 
 
 TOI tried to reach Naypadmasagarji, but he was not available for comment.
 
 Arvind Shah, an NSCI member, said: “He has crossed all limits. As a monk, he is asking people to support one group of a club which has a card room, liquor bar and non-veg food. He has forgotten all ethics of Jainism.’’
 
 Shah added: “I am a Jain by birth, but this person needs to be put in his place. Enough is enough.” Another member, not wishing to be identified, said the Maharaj was given out the NSCI dome (stadium) free of cost for his lectures in the past. 
 
 Jain community members said Naypadmasagarji conceptualized and mentors the Jain International Organisation (JIO), an umbrella including influential industrialists and businessmen that connects Jains across the country and has 16 units under it.
 
 He is no stranger to controversies and this is not the first time he has openly aired his thoughts on politics. During last year’s civic elections in Mira-Bhayander, Naypadmasagarji, who has a wide following in the community, had called for votes for the BJP and boycotting of other parties, especially the Shiv Sena, if they wanted a “meat-free” society.
 
 Chief minister   is a follower too, and had invited him to Varsha, the chief minister’s official bungalow, where he offered him bhiksha (alms). Fadnavis has also attended JIO events in Mumbai.
 
 Community members say in September 2014, before the assembly elections, Naypadmasagarji was guiding Jains in their strategy to get more representation in elected bodies. He wanted more Jain candidates to contest the elections.
 
 Incidentally, the camp supported by the monk in NSCI has been accused of largescale illegal constructions in the club, misuse of space meant for sporting activity and non-payment of property tax amounting to Rs 62 crore.
 
 
