PUNE: The Mundhwa-Kharadi  , which is expected to streamline traffic in the area, was thrown open to public on Thursday evening amid political drama with both BJP and NCP seeking credit for the project.

 The new bridge has been constructed parallel to the existing one which has not been able to deal with increased traffic because of the recent development related to IT parks, malls and residential projects.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The proposal for the bridge was sanctioned during NCP’s tenure in the  . Most of the civil work has been completed barring painting and installation of sign boards. On Thursday evening, leaders of both the parties arrived at the venue to throw open the bridge to the public.
 
 Sources in city’s political circles said that NCP had planned a function on Friday morning to inaugurate the facility. When BJP leaders learnt about it they rushed to the spot to throw it open, sources said. Leaders of both parties said that the bridge was open from Thursday.
 
 Chetan Tupe, leader of opposition and NCP leader, said that his party had pushed for the project since the beginning and there was no reason for BJP to seek credit. 
 
 “BJP has been seeking credit for all the projects that have been planned and launched by NCP. Even for   bridge, BJP leaders did not invite the mayor for the inauguration. Since it is the PMC’s project, the mayor should get an invite for official inauguration function as per protocol”, Tupe said.
 
 BJP MLA Yogesh Mulik said that the facility was ready for the last 4 to 5 days and an inauguration function was to be held. “Without any prior information, NCP leaders attempted to throw open the bridge. This is against logic and protocol. We do not want to bring politics in developmental work. As the construction is over, we decided to open it in the presence of common people. We are planning to hold an official function in the presence of the mayor and other dignitaries”, he said.
 
 Officials in PMC said that they would visit the bridge on Saturday to take a stock of the situation. An official added that they were not aware of any function pertaining to opening of the bridge.
 
 Despite incomplete work pertaining to street lights and medians, the bridge has been opened for traffic. The work needs to be completed at the earliest. Also, the approach road towards Mundhwa should be widened to avoid traffic jams, local residents said.
 
 
