NEW DELHI: Former Union minister   and over 10,000 residents of   and  , in a signed statement, had sought a negotiated settlement to the vexed Ayodhya land dispute, but the   said it was neither for nor against it.

 A three-judge bench headed by   Dipak Misra said, “It is purely a land dispute. We cannot force anyone to settle. If anyone wants to negotiate with the parties to reach an amicable settlement, then that person can contact the parties. But even such a negotiator has no role to play in the adjudication of rights of parties to a land dispute.”
 
 Khan told the bench that he had no intention to jump into the legal battle between parties for ownership of the disputed land in Ayodhya. “I have come here on the suggestion of former CJI J S   who had made an impassioned appeal for a negotiated settlement to the controversy that has been dividing the nation for the last seven decades. I have come with a concrete proposal and I take full responsibility for a negotiated settlement,” he said.
 
 When the CJI asked how he could be permitted to intervene in the hearing when the main parties to the case were opposing his intervention, Khan requested the court to keep his proposal pending, as “some time later, reason may prevail with the parties”.
 
 The CJI said, “You can continue with your effort to negotiate with the parties to the dispute. You do not need the court’s permission for it. We will be happy if the parties get persuaded by you and agree on a settlement. Without intervening in the case, you can make your efforts for a settlement. We can neither ask or restrain you from seeking a negotiated settlement. But how can your intervention help the case?”
 
 When Khan said allowing his intervention would help him bring the parties to the negotiating table, the bench said, “We do not know who made the suggestion for a negotiated settlement (referring to ex-CJI Khehar). There is nothing on the case record about it. We are not saying it is not a case which cannot be settled. If you succeed, we will be happy. If you say no will listen to you if you are not made a party, then how can you be seeking a negotiated settlement?
 
 “If anyone, be it academician, politician or anyone, makes efforts for negotiated settlement and once such a settlement is reached, it can be brought before the court. If all sides to the dispute agree to the contours of the settlement before the court, we will record it. But we can neither support or oppose a settlement. Our inherent powers under Article 142 does not permit us to do so in a land dispute. Our job is to adjudicate as per law.”
 
