CHANDIGARH: The  's dream project of making Chandigarh free of garbage with proper segregation remains on paper. Residents question the point of segregating waste at source when there is no provision for it in the door-to-door collection carts. 

 
 A TOI team that visited various sectors of the city saw for itself the futility of the exercise. Residents said the entire effort of the corporation was meaningless because it was "blind to reason and deaf to complaints". They questioned the logic of introducing green and blue bins for wet and dry waste, respectively, when the municipal corporation's own collectors were clueless about segregation and they were continuing to empty both bins into same basket.
 
 The residents and their representatives have made many complaints about the heaps of waste that the sweepers stockpile on roads, inside the parks, and on vacant plots near schools and other buildings, and then there is nobody to clear it. Sector-37 resident welfare association (RWA) president B S Multani said: "You'll always find heaps of garbage and dry leaves near   and   in the sector, but you'll never find anybody who has come over to clear the mess. The insects and flies hovering over this clutter spread diseases.
 
 The representatives expressed their concern over the absence of sweepers in many areas. Sector-20 RWA president Dr O P Verma said: "The sweepers are irregular in performing their duties and the ones to pile up all the waste on roadsides, not minding that wind and stray animals will scatter it all over the sector." Sector-32 RWA president   said: "We have rung up the civic authorities many times to lodge complaints about the irregular service of sweepers but there is no reaction."
 
 Sector-7 RWA president Anil Kumar said: "Even though the residents segregate dry and wet waste at home, the purpose is defeated when the door-to-door garbage collectors don't follow the practice. We even encourage others to segregate garbage and it pains to see the effort go waste. Sector-38 RWA president Major DP Singh said the accumulation of waste around the city's green belts had left parks stinking.
 
 The Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh launched the waste-segregation campaign on June 5, 2017, under the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. The civic body gave away green bins for the disposal of wet waste and blue bins for dry waste.   administrator VP Singh Badnore launched this scheme by distributing the first lot of these pairs of bins. One of the objectives was to turn the wet waste into compost for manure.
 
 Mayor Davesh Moudgil said: "If people feel that they are not getting any response to their complaints, they are free to approach the municipal commissioner and the medical officer of health."
 
 
