BHOPAL: The state medical education department has served a show-cause notice to  , asking why conditional desirability & feasibility (D&F) certificate given to the college at the recommendation of Supreme Court oversight committee should not be cancelled. It is on basis of D&F certificate of the state government that the   (MCI) had allowed the college to admit 150 students in 2016, 146 of whom are still stranded in college as MCI subsequently cancelled recognition of college and there were no admissions in MBBS courses in 2017 and 2018. 

 The notice signed by additional secretary of medical education N S Parmar said that MCI had cancelled recognition to the college in 2016 itself and admissions were banned for next two years, but the state government was not informed about any such development till date. It said that students of 2016-17 batch, who are still studying in the college, through various mediums have communicated to state government serious lapses in running the college which includes absence of faculty as per the MCI norms and others. The college has been given a period of 10 days to present a point-wise reply to the notice failing which the D & F certificate will be cancelled. The notice was issued on May 7. 
 
 However, those fighting for shifting of students to other college and punitive action against proprietors of the college raise a question mark over propriety of medical education department's notice for cancellation of D&F certificate.
 
 Vyapam whistleblower Dr Anand Rai, who has moved the HC over the issue, said: "What good would it do to students whom the college management has kept hostage and state government is not rescuing them despite all protests. How would it help the students? In the first place, the government issued D&F certificate when it should not have done it in absence of requisite facilities at the college and now when 2016-batch students are praying for their evacuation and rehabilitation at some other college, they are issuing notice for cancellation of D&F certificate", he said. 
 
 
