CHANDIGARH: A total of 752 students of three engineering institutes of   — UIET Chandigarh, Dr SSBUICET, Chandigarh and UIET SSGPURC, Hoshiarpur — were awarded degrees at Law Auditorium, PU, on Saturday.

 The degrees were awarded to 469 BE graduates from UIET Chandigarh, 66 ME/MTech postgraduates of UIET, Chandigarh, 88 BE graduates of SSGPURC, Hoshiarpur, 101 BE graduates of Dr SSBUICET, Chandigarh and 28 ME postgraduates of SSBUICET, Chandigarh. 
 
 Young assistant professors and research scholars from UIET and Dr SSBUICET, Chandigarh, who published their research work in reputed journals during the last year, were also honoured on the occasion.
 
 Rakesh Bharti Mittal, vice-chairman, Bharti Enterprises Ltd. awarded the degrees and  , professor, Bharti Chair, UIET, Chandigarh was the guest of honour at the annual event.
 
 Mittal, chief guest, emphasized on the pursuance of excellence to bring India on the forefront of technology to provide solutions for mankind. He reckoned India as a rising star and said it is extremely fortunate to graduate and work in India at present. He discussed the shift in the jobs in the present era.
 
 Earlier, Prof  , vice-chancellor narrated the contributions of Mittal towards technological development in the region. He emphasized on building industry academia corridors which will function as backdoor engines of growth. He congratulated all the graduates and urged them to work hard for a bright future.
 
 Pamela Kumar, guest of honour laid stress on staying updated on the latest technologies and be entrepreneurial to achieve excellence and generating employment. She shared her experiences from 33 years of working in the industry. She said that it is an extremely opportune time to be an engineer in India. She elaborated numerous opportunities for young graduates in the era of 5G, IOT, smart health systems, need for low power technologies. She encouraged youngsters to work with passion, have risk taking capabilities and collaborate for multi-disciplinary solutions.
 
 
