KOLKATA: The state has decided to supply more piped   to Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation and   to address the supply crisis during summer. 

 Officials of the urban development and municipal affairs (UD & MA) department and the public health engineering (PHE) department recently decided to increase water supply from the present 20 million gallons per day (MGD) to at least 35 MGD for Bidhannagar and Rajarhat. The authorities have started preparing the detailed project report and PHE department will provide treated water from their treatment plant at New Town.
 
 With the area under Bidhannagar increasing after the municipality was upgraded into a municipal corporation, the demand for water increased. Till last year, there was some scarcity in water supply in some of the blocks in Salt Lake in summer.
 
 The plan is to supply Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, including added areas of South Dum Dum, Rajarhat, Gopalpur and Mahishbathan, with more piped water from surface water source treated at the Tarulia plant.
 
 KMDA, in consultation with Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation, will develop a distribution network and overhead reservoirs and the UD & MA department will provide funds from the state budget. Work in some areas is underway in phases and the rest will be taken up by the KMDA. “The entire project will take about 18 months to be completed,” said a government official.
 
 Urban development officials said water will be supplied from the treatment plant through a smart supervisory control and data acquisition system to check wastage. 
 
 According to the original plan, of the 100 MGD water supplied from the   and treated at the Tarulia plant, Salt Lake receives about 15 MGD and Sector V around 5 MGD.   in North 24 Parganas and parts of South Dum Dum Municipality get 20 MGD. The rest is supplied to New Town. 
 
 The first phase of the Rs 450 crore scheme was inaugurated in 2016. During the trial period, New Town was receiving around 20 MGD of water, which was increased to over 50 MGD after full-fledged supply began. 
 
 
