KANNUR: The centre’s approach towards the cooperative sector has changed since globalization and there has been an effort to sabotage the credibility of the sector following demonetisation, chief minister   said.

 Inaugurating the 8th Cooperative   at Mundayad Indoor Stadium here on Saturday, he said customers’ trust was the biggest capital of the cooperative sector and there has been an effort to undermine it. “When the credibility of the cooperative banks has been damaged, investment flow would reduce and that was the motive behind the efforts to destabilize the sector, but the cooperative establishments stood together and resisted it,” he said.
 
 The deposits in the sector were to the tune of Rs 1.5 lakh crore and for the benefit of vested interests steps were taken to destabilize such a huge investment, he said adding that demonetisation choked the banks.The cooperative banks focus on people-friendly services whereas the State Bank of India has distanced itself from the masses following the merger, he said. When an establishment, which was expected to be amodel for the society function in such a way, the cooperative sector needs to be strengthened, Vijayan pointed out.
 
 After demonetisation, as many as 558 cooperative establishments in the credit sector were running on losses while 30 were on the verge of closure and 34 were facing liquidation, he added. The chief minister reaffirmed the government’s plan to merge the cooperative banks as the Kerala Bank. Once it has been set up, the cooperative banks will have a two-tier system, instead of the threetier-system as the governing bodies of the district cooperative banks will be scrapped.
 
 He also said the cooperative sector in the state has been a model for the nation but some sectors, including handloom and coir were passing through a crisis, and efforts were on to revive it. Even traditional sectors need to change with the times to improve productivity and introduce certain level of mechanisation, the chief minister said.
 
 Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala, Tamil Nadu cooperative minister M Kandaswamy Sellur K Raju, Puducherry cooperative minister M Kandaswamy, Kadakampally Surendran, E P Jayarajan, MLA, among others, were also present during the function. Various discussions and seminars were being organized in different venues as part of the Sahakarana Congress, which will conclude on Monday with a public meeting and cultural procession in which 1.25 lakh people would participate.
 
