Mangaluru: The Hindu Jagaran Vedike ( ) has warned of protests at various places in the Dakshina Kannada district, if the police fail to nab cattle thieves and traffickers within two days.

 Following the theft of cattle from Amruthadhara Gaushala at Kairangala near Ullal, the president of the gaushala,  , has been on a fast unto death from the past three days.
 
 HJV regional secretary Radhakrishna Adyanthaya said at Puttur on Tuesday, that more than 75 cattle heads in and around Kairangala have been stolen in the last few days. “The cattle were being bred by families as a means of livelihood, and the cattle thieves have deprived them of that,’’ he said, pointing out that cattle thefts have reached menacing proportions, and that robbers often use weapons to threaten owners while stealing cattle. “This is nothing but a failure of law and order. If the police fail to arrest the cattle thieves within two days, we will hold protests at various places in the district. If that too does not elicit a favourable response, the protests will be done in stages till we get justice,’’ he warned. He said the police have been given enough information about the errant, but still no action has been taken. “There are several instances that have stirred communal passions in the district, and   are adding fuel to the fire,’’ he added.
 
  shows solidarity
 
 Lakshmivara Teertha swami, the present pontiff of Shiroor mutt, extended his support to the fast unto death by Bhat, saying that if the present state government had provided protection to Hindus and cows, he would not have had to enter the political arena.
 
 The seer had recently decided to enter the fray from Udupi assembly constituency, and has decided to contest as an independent, if the BJP does not give him a ticket to contest.
 
 MP   also supported Bhat’s fast, saying that many cows have been stolen from the Ullal area in the past five years. The silence of district minister B Ramanath Rai is also adding to the charged atmosphere. He alleged that by declaring that he also eats beef, chief minister Siddaramaiah has given tacit support to cow thieves.
 
 MLC Captain Ganesh Karnik also lent his support to Bhat’s fast, saying that it was surprising that the police who trouble people in small matters linked to polls, were not taking any action as far as nabbing the accused in this case was concerned. He alleged that the police were acting like the puppets of the government to appease a section of society and subjugate Hindus, by allowing such instances to continue.
 
 
