NEW DELHI: Assuaging concerns over   in ATMs (Automated Teller Machines), finance minister   on Tuesday said there is more than adequate currency in circulation and the same is available with banks. Jaitley took to micro-blogging site Twitter and said that the shortage is 'temporary' and that it has been caused due to ‘sudden and unusual increase’ (in demand) in some parts of the country.

  
  
 Earlier on Monday, there were complaints of cash shortage in eastern Maharashtra, Bihar and Gujarat. This was almost a month after ATMs in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana had run dry.
 
 Since Tuesday morning, similar reports started emerging from different parts of the country, following which the finance minister issued the statement.
  
  
 According to RBI data, currency in circulation as on April 6 was Rs 18.17 lakh crore, which is close to the number at the time of  . While the growth in currency has been almost flat (compared to the day before demonetisation), the need for currency has shrunk considerably because of the high level of digitisation.
 
 
 
 
 Since the amount of currency put out by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and government printing presses is adequate for normal transactions, bankers believe there is hoarding of the Rs 2,000 notes. Nearly Rs 5 lakh crore worth of Rs 2,000 notes were printed after demonetisation.
 
 The government is checking with banks and the Reserve Bank of India to ensure adequate supply of currency. A statement by the finance ministry confirmed reports of cash shortages and some ATMs running dry of cash or becoming non-functional in some parts of the country.
 
 "There has been unusual spurt in currency demand in the country in last three months," it said.
 
 While currency supply increased by Rs 45,000 crore in the first 13 days of April, "unusual spurt in demand" was seen more in some parts of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, it said.
 
 Minister of State for Finance Shiv Pratap Shukla said the government has formed a committee to address the problem of currency shortage in certain states and the issue would be resolved in next 2-3 days.
 
 "The Government has set up state-wise committee and RBI has also formed a committee to transfer currency from one state to other because for money transfer you need the permission of the RBI. It (the shortage) will be solved in 2-3 days," he said.
 
 "The Government of India with the Reserve Bank of India have taken all steps to meet this unusual demand. We had adequate reserves of currency notes which have been used to meet fully the extraordinary demand generated so far," the finance ministry statement said.
 
 "We continue to have in stock adequate currency notes of all denominations, including of Rs 500, Rs 200 and Rs 100 to meet any demand," it added.
 
 SBI Chairman Rajnish Kumar said it would not be correct to state that there is a currency shortage in the country. There has been an "imbalance" due to the crop procurement season, when demand for currency goes up. He said Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh are seeing heightened demand due to procurement season.
 
 Bankers point out that currency in circulation typically peaks just before an election. But the only state going for elections in the coming weeks is Karnataka.
 
 The demand for currency is also reflected in the slowdown in deposit growth. During the year ended March 2018, bank deposits grew by a measly 6.7% compared to 15.3% in 2016-17. During the same period, bank credit grew 10.3% compared to 8.2% in the comparable period in the previous year.
 
 
 
 
