Edited. 340 words. Times News Network Panaji: Back in the 1980s, when Goa had a low density of schools, many institutions began offering classes despite not having the necessary facilities. Since they weren’t able to meet the prescribed requirements in terms of infrastructure, teacher strength, etc, such institutions were unable to obtain recognition from the state authorities. However, in a bid to ensure that the students of these ‘schools’ didn’t suffer, a temporary provision in rules was made permitting the students concerned to answer their Class X and XII board exams through a recognised school in the vicinity.  Yet, for close to 30 years, a few such unrecognised schools continued to operate without the necessary infrastructure and, therefore, the recognition, even as they successfully got their students to answer the state board exams through a recognised school. Only recently did it come to the notice of the state board officials that two schools in South Goa had, over the years, failed to build the necessary infrastructure and meet the other provisions required to earn recognition for themselves. These ‘schools’ continued to get their students to answer the board exams through a recognised school. “The two schools in question have since upgraded their infrastructure and obtained recognition for themselves. The temporary provision that allowed unrecognised schools to sponsor students for Class X and XII exams through recognised school now stands invalid,” a source said, explaining that the age-old circular was issued to allow students access to schooling at a time when Goa had few educational institutions.  Although the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (GBSHE) hasn’t had to deal with any cases of students from unrecognised schools answering the board exams in the current academic year, it has warned school managements that a showcause notice will be issued to any recognised institution found to be sponsoring students for an unrecognised school at the Class X and XII public exams. The board, in a new circular, has stated that applications of candidates of unrecognised schools to answer the Class X and XII examinations “will be rejected without mentioning any reason”.