HYDERABAD: The   police on Tuesday arrested noted ghazal singer Kesiraju Srinivas following a complaint of sexual harassment by a 29-year-old woman colleague.

 The victim works at web radio channel ‘Aalayavani’, which is run by   from their office located on the first floor of Saptagiri Towers near Care Hospital in  .
 
 “The accused Kesiraju Srinivas, alias Ghazal Srinivas, 51, a singer from Kabir Nivas, Anand Nagar in Khairatabad, is brand ambassador for Save Temples Organisation and used to supervise the work of the web radio channel too,” Punjagutta inspector S Ravindar told TOI.
 
 The victim, a divorcee from  , joined the web radio channel in June 2017 on a monthly salary of ₹13,000. On December 29, she lodged a complaint with the Punjagutta police alleging that Ghazal Srinivas was sexually harassing her.
 
 
 
 
 The victim alleged that Ghazal Srinivas forced her to massage his back and legs by threatening to sack her. In the remand report, the police quoted the victim saying: “Ghazal Srinivas used to forcibly kiss, hug and demand sexual favours. He posed nude in front of me whenever I visited his room on office work.”
 
 Srinivas also used to sexually exploit the office maid and used her to allegedly pressurise the victim to fall in line, police said. Unable to bear the harassment, the victim secretly recorded visuals of his sexual exploitation by placing a camera in the bedroom and handed over the memory card containing those visuals to the police.
 
 Based on her statement and the video evidence, police questioned the victim’s colleague, Prakash, who told the police that he saw Srinivas closing the door of his room after calling her inside and that whenever the victim came out after spending more than an hour in his room, she used to be in tears.
 
 Based on the complaint, police registered a case against Srinivas and the maid, who has been named accused number 2, under Sections 354, 354-A and 509 r/w 109 of the IPC.
 
 Srinivas was produced before the court on Tuesday and sent to judicial remand till Jan 12. Police moved a petition seeking his custody, while Srinivas moved a bail petition. The singer was sent to Chanchalguda prison in the evening.
 
