NAGPUR: Even as   is all set to disaffiliate Wainganga College of Engineering and Management for charging excess fees worth crores from students over the years, the joint director for technical education’s office is in no mood to stop its admissions for the forthcoming academic session (2018-19).

 Joint director   told TOI that he hadn’t received any intimation in this regard from NU and, therefore, there was no question of stopping the admissions. “We will think over it only after receiving any communication from NU. We can’t act on our own unless specific complaints are lodged by the students with us. It may turn out to be an internal matter between NU and college,” he said while adding that he would take details from NU.
 
 Vice-chancellor SP Kane, who was granted full rights by the   to start disaffiliation process of erring colleges, told TOI that it would take at least a year for completion of disaffiliation process, which is a bit lengthy. “The proposal would be first tabled before Board of Deans (BOD) and then moved to the Academic Council, which is the main authority for disaffiliating institutions. Unfortunately, the council is yet to be fully constituted due to high court stay on the Board of Studies (BOS) polls,” he said.
 
  
 NU officials said despite being indicted by the Management Council for the big fraud, the college management led by former Senate member Bramhanand Karanjekar hasn’t challenged NU’s decision till date. While accepting the probe panel report, the council found that the college located in Dongargaon on Wardha Road, has committed serious breach of trust by charging excess money, ranging from Rs3,000-Rs 10,000, besides the prescribed fees.
 
 While terming the entire issue as a “scam”, the panel headed by humanities dean   recommended the college students to lodge a plaint with Economic Offences Wing (EOW). He further advised them to file a case in consumer forum for recovering the excess fees.
 
 The complaint in this regard was filed by NSUI activists on behalf of its students. They claimed that college also failed to refund the caution money which they charged from the students since its inception in 2008. Even scholarship dues of hundreds of them were allegedly pocketed by the management.
 
 The students also lodged complaints with ‘State Social Justice and Special Assistance Department’, but even its officials miserably failed to take any action against the college.
 
 Though Karanjekar and acting principal Salim Chavan had admitted of adjusting the dues of OBC students, as government didn’t pay their development fees, they blamed NU for not granting them opportunity of hearing.
 
 
