VADODARA: The   and   continued on Thursday with a large group of   taking out a rally alleging   on the university campus. The students have said that if the university officials don’t act by March 21, they will start another movement.

 It was on March 12, a day after clashes erupted between student groups belonging to Rajasthan and Manipur at Manubhai Mehta Hall, scores of students from Manipur urged MSU officials to end racial discrimination faced by them at the campus. On Wednesday, students from Rajasthan approached the varsity officials on Wednesday calling the allegations baseless.
 
 When the students reached there, the vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas came out to assure them unbiased probe. He told the students to focus on their studies while university will probe the incidents and take measures to prevent such in future. 
 
 The students then tried to enter the head office building but were stopped by the security staff. They sat for two hours in the sun and after the cops intervened, a memorandum was submitted. The students demanded that the university acts and rusticate all six students of Rajasthan who were involved in the clashes. They have also demanded that Sanjay Solanki, warden of MM Hall be removed from all administrative posts alleging that he was protecting Rajasthan students.
 
 Talking to mediapersons, Priyanand Sharma, a PhD student of  , who led the protest on Thursday said, “Do we even have to write on our forehead that we are Indians? Only because we have different facial features we are facing racial discrimination.” He added that despite Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh talking to CM Vijay Rupani, the north east students are feeling insecure.
 
 “North eastern students have been coming to MSU since 1974 yet the police are searching for Manipuri students. There are even reports that three students have gone missing from the campus because of fear,” said Sharma. Later, they went to Sayajigunj police station and gave an application to register a case under sections of Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act against students from Rajasthan involved in the violence.
 
 
