LUDHIANA: Showing resentment against the attack on the MC teams during eviction drive in Giaspura flats, the civic officials staged a two-hour long protest and gate rally at the D zone office in Sarabha Nagar on Tuesday.

 
 During their protest, they presented a long list of demands in front of Mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC Commissioner  . The employees demanded that power to register FIR in such cases should be with the police officials deputed in MC and the civic body lawyers should fight such cases.
 
 The employees have given a 7-day ultimatum to the civic authorities and have asked the MC commissioner and mayor to ensure the arrest of those responsible for the attack on MC team in Giaspura on May 17. They want the MC commissioner and the mayor speedy arrest of the attackers so that a strong message goes out. Otherwise, the employees threatened to protest again.
 
 The employees also rued that when they are out on the field performing their duties, they face resentment and are attacked by the people. However, in absence of the powers with MC, the officials are required to wait for the police to take action.
 
 The chairman of  , Ashwani Sahota said, “The MC police should have power to register the FIR against such persons like electricity department who officers have the authority to register FIR on the spot.”
 
 He added, “Moreover, the employees have to face problems in fighting the cases in situations where police register the FIR. Therefore, the MC legal cell should handle the responsibility.”
 
 Reacting to the demands of the MC employees, mayor Sandhu said they will consider the demands of the staff and will try to fulfill them. He said they will try to bring a resolution in the MC general house.
 
 Meanwhile, the sweltering heat did bother the officials and employees. Most of them were seen standing on the parking side or inside the MC office. One of the employees said, “Usually, the union members arrange for tents. But this time, there was no such arrangement, so we had to stand in the parking side as it was so hot.
 
 Visitors harassed 
 
 The visitors to the MC offices faced slight harassment since most of the MC employees were protesting for two hours. Though Suvidha Centre employees remained on their seats for the collection of property tax, water and sewerage dues and receiving the applications for the TS-1 certificates, building plan approval, change of ownership etc but since other officials were not on their seats, so the pending documents could not reach the Suvidha Centre. Hence, residents had to either wait or leave.
 
 Subhash Chander, a resident of  , visited MC office to collect TS-1 certificate. He also wanted to get some documents signed by the concerned superintendent, who was not on his seat. “I had come for TS-1 certificate, but the officer was not on his seat. It is sheer harassment, and nobody can wait for two hours here. Those people attacked officers and now the officers are harassing the general public,” he said.
 
