‘Amethi Ka Toofan, Badlega Saara Hindustan’ (Amethi’s storm will bring change to entire India) – a typical poster at the   office in Gauriganj in  , congratulating   for his elevation as Congress chief.

 If the tone and tenor of the over-the-top poster is reflective of Gandhi’s stature in the party, the BJP’s attempts to match, if not outdo, such Congress posters by congratulating Chandrama Verma for winning the recent Amethi Nagar panchayat election indicate that the Congress can expect a spirited opposition in its traditional stronghold.
 
 A fight is on in Amethi and in this fight to “snatch the seat” from Gandhi, as UP health minister Siddharth Nath Singh put it, perception is a big factor. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that the Congress lost even from Amethi in the recent civic polls and that Gandhi’s “future is bleak”.
 
 Late Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi’s statue in the market intersection of Amethi town is surrounded by congratulatory banners for the civic poll win with PM  , BJP president Amit Shah and Union minister Smriti Irani’s pictures.
 
 The Congress is at pains to explain it never even contested this seat. “We have for years never contested the Amethi Nagar panchayat seat. How can we lose a seat we did not contest?” asked Akhilesh Pratap Singh, the UP Congress spokesman.
 
 But the Congress candidate did lose from Gauriganj Nagar Palika chairman seat in Amethi district and its candidate in fact came fourth to lose even her deposit.
 
 Gauriganj is where the Congress district office of Amethi is located. “But the Samajwadi Party won this seat, not the BJP. Why is the BJP so happy?” asked Singh.
 
 Most BJP leaders exude confidence that Irani can defeat Gandhi in 2019, seeking to question his prime ministerial ambitions.
 
 The Congress, on its part, is gearing up to meet the challenge. “If Smriti Irani contests again against Rahul Gandhi in 2019, she will lose her deposit. The last election was different – it was a Modi wave and she was able to get votes. This time, people of Amethi are angry with the BJP for defaming the constituency. All BJP says is – this has not happened in Amethi and that has not happened. People realise it is a lie,” said Akhilesh Pratap Singh. He pointed to stalwarts such as Kanshi Ram, Sharad Yadav and Rajmohan Gandhi who tried their luck from Amethi and lost. “Is Irani bigger than them?” Singh asked.
 
 Another senior UP Congress leader said that as Congress president Gandhi would sweep Amethi “as people will be electing the next PM”.
 
 Conversations with people, however, revealed that Irani’s repeated visits to Amethi, in contrast to Gandhi’s few outings, appear to have made some impression among the locals.
 
 Four out of the five assembly seats are now with the BJP. Posters of UP CM Yogi Adityanath on the ‘UP Kaushal Vikas Mission’ dot the place where unemployment is an issue. BJP president Amit Shah in his last visit here stressed how Amethi did not get a collectorate building for decades and BJP is getting one constructed on a war footing.
 
 Congress leaders said this was a twisted statement as Amethi became a district only in 2013 and land for the project for the new collectorate was sanctioned by the erstwhile   government in 2016.
 
 The BJP is waging a relentless perception battle, highlighting for instance that the Adityanath government is building a two-km long obstacle wall to shield three dozen villages of Amethi from the changing course of Gomti river, after the electorate in Pipri village refused to vote in 2014 saying no one cared for them.
 
