KOCHI:The Kochi corporation and the general public has demanded immediate resumption of Ro-Ro services but   ( ) has sent a report to the district collector and mayor thattheir crewwould require at least three weeks training before they can restart theservice.TheKSINChasbeen training four firstclassofficers(drivers)for operating Ro-Ro between Vypeen and   for the past few days.

 While stopping the service, KSINC had promised that the service will be resumed after May 10. The KSINC authorities, in their report, states that the crew are yet to familiarise themselves with the vessel. “The crew we trained had operated jankar and boats in Vypeen-Fort Kochi sector. But theRo-Ro vesselistotally different. It has two propellers positioned on opposite sides. Each propeller can turn 360 degrees. In the case of other vessels, there would be only one propeller which is positioned in the middle,” sources with KSINC said. “They would require more for manoeuvring the Ro-Ro vessel,” he said.
 
 The corporation authorities areexploring waystooperate the Ro-Ro services if KSINC fails to run it. “I had contacted the KSINC officials seeking thestatusof training.They saidthatthey wouldbesending a report to me soon. I didn’t get the report till I left the office in the late evening,” mayor Soumini Jain said. “ We will be taking the nextstep after consultation with all stakeholders,” she said.
 
 Public outcry for restarting the services is growing in Fort Kochi and Vypeen. Many including, vehicleowners,traders and fish vendors have been affected.Govindan  , an RTI activist from Fort Kochi, has sent a letter to   shipping ministry and National Human Rights Commission seeking their intervention to resume the Ro-Ro service. “Though the KSINC had stated that lack of experienced drivers and mandatory certificates led them to suspend the service, the agencies concerned informed the district collector the vessel has all the safety certificates and insurance documents to run the vessel.Thecrewof Ro-Ro vessel did not get sufficient training to operate the newly constructed vessel. The MoU between the corporation and the KSINC was signed on April 25, but the inauguration took place on April 28. Only mock training was given on April 27 to run the vessel,” the letter alleged.
 
 In his complaint, Nampoothiry also requested the ministry and the   to take necessary action against Kochi corporation and district administration for operating Ro-Ro vessel in negligent way and wasting public money without proper trial run.
 
