LUDHIANA: The district administration has put two government school teachers, who died last year, on duty for the upcoming municipal corporation elections. This is not all. The returning officers have issued notices to both the teachers for skipping the poll duty rehearsal on February 10, seeking explanation and issuing warning of disciplinary action. 

 The staff of Government High School, Gujjarwal, and Government Senior Secondary School, Barsal, were shocked when they received a list of teachers' names for election duty. The deceased teachers, Avtar Singh from Barsal school and Daljeet Singh from   school, also figured in the list. 
 
 The notice of absence under Section 134 of the Representation of the People Act 1951, issued by returning officers SDM (east) and SDM (Payal), says, "This is in reference to the order of district election officer, in which you had been drafted on election duty and you were found absent at rehearsal held at Malwa Khalsa Girls' Senior Secondary School, Civil Lines, Ludhiana. Therefore, you are directed to explain reason on 14/02/2018 before 3pm to the undersigned otherwise disciplinary proceedings will be initiated against you... or would be assumed that you have willfully disobeyed the orders."
 
 Principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Barsal, Lakhveer Singh said, "Our lecturer Avtar Singh died in a road accident about five months ago. We have received notice from the returning officer-cum-SDM (Payal) for his absence from rehearsal. We have written about his death to the officer." 
 
 Principal of Government High School, Gujjarwal,   said, "The school has written to the officer about the death of our teacher Daljeet Singh, who died last year following prolonged illness." 
 
 Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agarwal said, "Due to the shortage of time, the administration has used the old list of teachers deployed for Assembly elections' duty. The administration had no information about the deaths. The school can write to us about it." 
 
 The Times of India had earlier reported that 80% of the teaching staff in the district has been deployed on election duty by the administration, including teachers of important subjects like physics, chemistry, mathematics, biology, English and science. There are 535 middle, high and secondary schools in the district with approximately 6,000 teachers and about 4,500 have been deployed for elections. 
 
 
