KOLKATA : As a contingent of the Army’s Para (Special Forces) march down Red Road ‘on the double’ on Friday, spectators of the 
  Parade will be reminded of the strikes on   across the country’s borders in Pakistan-occupied-Kashmir (PoK) and Myanmar. The armed forces will also treat residents to a sneak preview of advanced equipment being procured in the next few years.

 
 
 
 “The Indian Air Force (IAF) tableaux will feature replicas of the advanced multi-role Rafale fighter aircraft, along with a low-level quick reaction surface to air SPYDER missile. Flt Lt Jyotsna will be there dressed in a G-suit worn by fighter pilots. There will also be a model of the Chinook heavy lift helicopter and replicas of advanced Airborne Warning and Control System (AWACS) mounted atop the IL-76 and the medium lift C-130J Hercules strategic aircraft. There will also be a model of the Mirage 2000, a multi-role air superiority fighter aircraft,” said Wg Cdr S S Birdi, CPRO, ministry of defence.
 
 
 
 
 The IAF has already placed orders for 36 Rafale fighters from France and 15 Chinook CH-47F helicopters from Boeing. While the Rafales will start arriving from 2019, the IAF hopes to fly the Chinooks later this year. The IAF now wants a repeat order of 36 Rafales from Dassault. The Israel-origin SPYDER (Surface-toair PYthon and DERby) missile defence system has already become operational along India’s western border and can neutralize hostile targets up to 15km away and at heights between 20m and 9,000m. The combination of the Python and Derby air-to-air missiles makes the system lethal, an expert said.
  
  
 According to Wg Cdr Birdi, the Navy’s tableaux will carry models of the destroyer INS Kolkata and a Sindhughosh-class (Russian Kilo-class) submarine. The Navy also has plans to install a model of the INS Kolkata in the city. The Army will pitch in with a Mortar-1861on tow, filed guns and Bofors 155mm howitzers. There will also be a truck-launched Pinaka multi-barrel rocket launcher and a radar of SATA Battery on display.
 
 “Maj Gen Shachin Suri, officiating general officer commanding, HQ Bengal Area, will be the parade commander. As he salutes the governor while passing the dais and the Tricolour is unfurled, a Mi-17 V5 helicopter will drop petals on the gathering,” Wg Cdr Birdi added.
 
 
