CAPE TOWN: Weeks before he took the long flight to South Africa - an ardous tour that would hand him his Test cap in challenging conditions -   was beset with off-field worries. In the second week of December last year, his grandfather Santok Singh Bumrah’s body was fished out of the river Sabarmati near Ahmedabad. The octogenarian’s last wish – to see his grandson once – remained unfulfilled. For a boy not known to be very vocal on the personal front, it’s hard to say how badly the incident has affected him.

 ALSO READ: 
 
 Jasprit and his grandfather had been known to share a tumultuous relationship, borne out of a very long and troubled past where the cricketer’s mother - Daljit - had gone out of her way to keep the boy away from it all. Shy and soft-spoken, Bumrah hasn’t spoken a word on the tour till date.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Like his personal space, it will remain a mystery if it was some of that rage inside him that showed a different side to the bowler, who left two of South Africa’s most capable batsmen, including their skipper  , in tatters on Monday afternoon.
 
 After the match, Faf said: “Surprise, yes. We didn’t think that Bumrah would have played. We know that he’s done really well in One-day cricket but we were preparing more for the other seamers because they’ve played a lot of Tests”.
 
 The 24-year-old has certainly taken the SA camp by surprise. It was during that one spell that got him and Quinton de Kock in quick succession that the hosts realised – for the first time in the Test match perhaps – that there was more to India’s attack than Bhuvneshwar and Shami.
 
 Bumrah’s Mumbai Indians partner Hardik Pandya had, by then, already proved his skipper and coach right. They had given him enough rest during the series against Sri Lanka and brought him well rested and ready to go in SA.
 
 
 
 Just like India took risks in giving a young cricketer his Test cap and dropping Ajinkya Rahane for Rohit Sharma, so did South Africa. Du Plessis played a batsman less and got away.
 
 It is here that India came very close to grabbing the Cape Town Test, a fact that the eventual result – looking worse in hindsight because of India’s second innings-batting effort – may overshadow.
 
 “The decision of picking this team was definitely the hardest I have been involved in. There is so much value in both scenarios. Playing seven batters that offers a bit more seam is a very good call. But I just thought, if you have Steyn, Morkel, Philander, Rabada, that’s four bowlers you can’t look past,” Du Plessis said on Monday.
 
 It was certainly a positive move, though questions will always remain over exactly why South Africa chose to bat first after winning the toss, despite the kind of attack at their disposal.
 
 Du Plessis now said India have the same attack as South Africa, and coming from the captain of a team that boasts the most lethal pace attack in the world, that is quite a compliment for this India camp.
 
 But as Virat Kohli pointed out the same day as Faf, picking 20 wickets alone – while that’s what wins you a Test match – is not enough. “You’ve got to put runs on the board,” he says.
 
 Both teams took risks going into the Cape Town Test. The team that put slightly more runs on the board won.
 
