BHUBANESWAR: No car can be rolled out on the road until it has a valid   from the  . The state government on Saturday made it mandatory for dealers to withhold the release of a vehicle sold from the showroom until it gets a registration number,. 

  Madhusudan Padhi has directed the regional transport officers to inform the dealers of their respective areas about the directive. It will be strictly implemented from April 1.
 
 Rule 42 of the  , 1989 says a dealer can't deliver the vehicle to the buyer until its registration is complete. "The rule has been there, but it was not being followed. As a result, the government was not getting tax revenue on time," said Padhi.
 
 Officials said the onus is on the dealers as it is they who don't send the registration papers soon after the vehicle is sold and the registration fees and tax are collected from the buyers. "The dealers keep the registration fees and tax revenue with them and send them to the transport office on their whim and fancy. Sometimes, the dealers submit a bunch of documents of several vehicles after two to four weeks of sale," said the government circular.
 
 The government has issued such a stricture following cases of several vehicles plying on the roads without registration despite paying the registration fees." If the dealers don't stick to the rules and get the registration done before delivery of the vehicles, the motor vehicles inspectors will conduct surprise raids and catch hold of the dealers. Their trade license may also get cancelled," warned Padhi. 
 
 Officials said there are provisions of online payment of road tax and registration fee after which an SMS is generated within 24 hours. The SMS carries the registration number. Even the SMS has legal validity and the registration number can be put on the vehicle. We have the rule of T+1 (transaction plus one day) within which the tax and registration fee should be credited with the regional transport office, Padhi clarified. 
 
 The government has relaxed the norms in case of transport vehicles as they have to be physically inspected. The norm has also been relaxed in case of vehicles, whose place of purchase and registration are different. In case of a vehicle, which is bought in a city and applied for registration elsewhere, it can hit the road with a temporary number, officials said. 
 
 A dealer said they will have to hire extra manpower to process the bulk of documents and get registration numbers. "We may also have to expand the stockyard as several sold vehicles might get parked until registration," he said. 
 
 
