LUCKNOW: While the 118-year-old Grand Old Party is still struggling to maintain its district and city offices, running mostly in old and dilapidated buildings, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is set to get five-star offices in all 75 districts on its own land.

 
 The project, estimated to run into crores, to get swanky offices on its own land had begun two years ago. The target is to complete all work before the battle lines are drawn for the 2019 general elections. Of the 75 districts in  , BJP has already purchased land in 62. Registry is complete and offices are being built in 50 of these. Civil work is nearing completion in a dozen. In  , the new office has already been inaugurated by chief minister  . The one in   will also be ready soon.The minimum area of land for an office is 4,000 square metres while the maximum can go up to 8,000 square metres. Most new offices are being built in prominent locations of cities.
 
 The party did not disclose how much was spent on purchasing land in the 75 districts, construction, interiors or gadgets and other amenities. By the time the next general elections are announced, the ruling BJP will have all offices ready to flash information to and from its national headquarters. The idea is to cover the length and breadth of Uttar Pradesh with the click of a mouse on an LED screen or through video conferencing to spread the message among the 23-crore population. Contrary to this, the three major political parties in the state SP, BSP and the Congress lack such preparedness. There is no plan visible under which they will link all districts through modern technology. None of the three parties, despite having ruled for decades, has an office in all 75 districts of the state. Soon after coming to power at the Centre, the party not only overhauled its “chaal, charitra aur chehra (organizational activities, character of the party and faces)”, but the part also went on a land purchasing spree to build its own offices.
 
 The BJP, billed as the world’s largest political party with more than 11crore members, under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and party chief  , has already designated the elders and veterans as the “marg darshak mandal” to pave way for young and new faces.
 
 BJP functionary and in charge of the project   said offices in all districts will be ready by 2019 polls.
 
