GURUGRAM: The licence of Medanta’s internal pharmacy was suspended on Thursday by the district drug control officer for “violations” found during the medical board’s probe into complaints of overcharging by the father of  , the seven-year-old boy who died last year after a dengue infection. 

 The belated step, however, came nearly a month after the medical board submitted its report on March 5 and almost a week after Saurya Pratap’s father announced at a press conference he had accepted full reimbursement of his son’s treatment cost (Rs 15.88 lakh) from   and promised in return that he would not pursue a legal case against the hospital.
 
 According to the probe, the hospital overcharged for medicines and did not maintain proper bills and records. “We suspended the licence of the internal pharmacy at the hospital after violations were observed in Saurya Pratap’s case. The action has been taken after the hospital did not submit a suitable reply to the notice,” senior drug officer Sunil Chaudhary told TOI. The hospital did not respond to requests for a comment. 
 
 In December 2017, the licences of the pharmacy and blood bank at   (FMRI) were suspended in a similar probe that was initiated on a complaint from the father of Adya Singh, another seven-year-old who succumbed to dengue.
 
 Saurya Pratap was admitted to Medanta on October 30 last year. He was suffering from severe dengue with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome. The boy was shifted to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi on November 20 since there was no improvement in his condition, and the bill was running high. He was critical at the time of admission to RML and died on November 22. His father Gopendra, an LIC agent based in Rajasthan’s Dhaulpur district, had to mortgage his house to pay the treatment cost.
 
 The Medanta pharmacy, according to the probe report, did not mention the addresses of the doctor and patient on the dispensing sheet or bill. The bills were issued by a pharmacist different from the registered one and whose name was printed on the invoice.
 
 A violation of the Drug Price Control Order 2013 was also observed with respect to the maximum retail price (MRP) of three injections — heparin, dexamethasone and metronidazole. 
 
 These three drugs were sold at a price higher than the MRP prescribed by National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority, according to the report. Different brands of the same drug with different MRPs were also issued, the probe found.
 
