MADURAI: Kamal Haasan will start his political journey from former president A P J Abdul Kalam’s house on February 21. He will tour his home district Ramanathapuram and nearby Sivaganga before addressing a public meeting at Madurai.

 According to his itinerary released on Saturday,   will arrive at Kalam’s house at 7.45 am and visit the late president’s school at 8.15 am. He would be meeting fishermen at Ganesh Mahal in   at 8.50 am before proceeding to   at Peikarumbu where he’ll reach at 11.10 am. After ten minutes at the memorial, he will head for Madurai. 
 
 Fishermen leaders at Rameswaram said that they were yet to get any communication about his meeting. “We will meet him once we get the invite for the sake of courtesy”, quipped fishermen leader B Jesuraja. Fishing community leaders like him wondered where Kamal was last year when they were tormented by their dispute with Sri Lanka. Even the small outfits and political parties had shown their solidarity with fishermen of Rameswaram. “Let us see what Kamal is up to”, Jesuraja said. 
 
 After leaving Rameswaram, Kamal Hassan will be addressing public meetings at Ramanathapuram palace, Paramakudi and Manamadurai at 12.30 noon, 2.30 pm and 3 pm respectively. He will be arriving at the public meeting spot at Y Othakadai by 5 pm and hoisting his political party’s flag at the venue by 6 pm. The public meeting will commence at 6.30 pm and Kamal is likely to address the meeting around 8.10 pm. Meanwhile, the actor called on senior CPI leader R Nallakannu on Saturday ahead of taking the political plunge. 
 
 For decades, even before Independence, Madurai has been the hotbed of various political developments. Even Mahatma Gandhi took a most significant decision in his life — of changing his attire to that of a peasant — at Madurai during his visit to the city in 1921. Leaders including Kamaraj commenced their political journey at Madurai, recalled veteran politician  , 80, an elderly   worker. “Kamal comes with atheist background when the political realm including in Tamil Nadu is turning religion-based. He also lacks the student support like what C N Annadurai had when he was at loggerheads with the Congress party in 1967. It is going to be tough”, he opined. 
 
 
