NAGPUR: A woman today is well aware of what constitutes domestic violence, but not perceptive towards her rights at the workplace. “Gender bias at workplace induces stress in women,” said advocate  , ex-counsellor, complaint and investigation cell,   (NCW), here recently.

 She was speaking at a session ‘Working Women and Their Problems’ as part of the national conference held on Occupational Health Hazards and Its Holistic Management. Organized by Pratibha Shakti Nagpur, the conference was hosted in collaboration with National Institute of Miners’ Health, Nagpur, and   Biotechnology Centre, Nagpur at NIMH premises in Wadi recently.
 
 Salve has served women’s causes for 18 years, and works as an independent counsellor and legal consultant for women and child issues.
 
 “Even though the constitution provides equal rights, discrimination is prevalent. Though the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace Act was implemented in 2013, women at large are not sure what sexual harassment means,” she said.
 
 Salve told TOI that in a case that came to her last month, the harasser had not ‘touched’ the victim. “The woman was unaware that being made to feel uncomfortable is also classified as sexual harassment. In another case, a woman sat at home for two months out of fear of going to office,” she said.
 
 “Due to circumstances, women are not able to speak up or share their problems. For an organization with more than 10 people, it is mandatory to have an internal complaints committee. It is the employer’s responsibility to constitute it and make the employees aware. Yet, many companies don’t have it,” she said.
 
 Salve proposed four changes in the government policy in interest of working women. “Women should be granted menstrual leave. It is good to see some companies have taken initiative in this regard. Secondly, maternal leave should be longer. It is mental and physically difficult for women to work right after delivery. 
 
 “An office should have a day care centre for children of the employees. Moreover, an internal committee should be constituted to resolve women’s issues,” she said, adding that when these measures are put in place, only then true equality be achieved.
 
 14-yr-old’s cure for teachers’ voice
 
 Shreenabh Agrawal, a Std IX student of  , was felicitated at the conference for suggesting a four-step remedy for teachers suffering from voice disorders. He presented his research paper titled ‘Voice disorders in schoolteachers: An Occupational Hazard’. 
 
 For his study, the 14-year-old student interviewed 90 subjects, of which 45 each were teachers and non-teachers. Shreenabh claimed the remedy suggested by him delivers results in five days. 
 
 Shreenabh has suggested Simhasan, drinking hot water with lemon and honey and chewing raisins, non-verbal class management and ‘voice rest’ for the teachers.
 
 Dr Tinu Agrawal, Shreenabh’s mother and a research consultant, said, “An academician from Trichy has asked Shreenabh to deliver a talk at his medical college.” 
 
 
