Though the demand for earthen pots has increased in the district over the last two years, poverty-stricken potters have been unable to cash in on this positive trend and grow their business. The traditional potters are not able to supply their products in tune with the demand owing to the limited manpower and lack of mechanisation in the making process of pots. But, with Trichy collector K Rajamani handing over 72 electric earthen pot machines named ‘Sheila Wheel’ to the beneficiaries, who are below the poverty line, on Monday, the potters expressed hope that they would finally get to make their ends meet through the business. Electric Sheila Wheels are being given to beneficiaries statewide by Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board. The new electric earthen pot-maker would help struggling potters in a big way and enable them to come up with more supply, according to G Balakumaran, assistant director, Trichy district, TN Khadi and Village Industries Board. "Usually, at least two people have to be involved in pot making process, but with the help of this machine, one person can do it very easily," he told TOI.  A survey conducted two years ago by the labour department in association with respective village administrations and the Khadi department have identified potters who were below poverty line in Trichy district. "In the next stage, those who have not been provided the machine would be covered," Balakumaran said.  The emphasis towards using earthen pots for storing drinking water and cooking has seen an increase mainly due to doctors recommending it for its several health benefits. The demand for earthen pots/lamps is high during Pongal and Karthigai festival and during April and May. Muthulingam, who has been into pot making for over three decades, said that only in the last two years he has seen such a big demand for earthen pots. "I have been getting bulk orders of 500 to 600 earthen pots recently. The problem is that we don’t have enough man power to meet the demands," he said.  Another potter, Dhanalakshmi, who hails from Rasampalayam village near Manachanallur, who echoed the similar point of view, said that due to lack of people volunteering for pot making, it was tough for her to make enough pots in a day. "I can make only one to two pots a day. And during the rainy season, we don’t make pots. Even though I am getting orders, I am not able to make enough pots," she said. The Tamil Nadu government has been giving rainy season relief compensation fund of Rs 5000 for a year for the beneficiaries.