DUBAI:   had once spoken about how   was his team for life. But such things always pan out differently, don't they? Last August, Viviani broke his contract with Team Sky to join Quick-Step Floors. The Italian, who was left out of the British team's squad for the  , had previously played down talk of a move before the end of his contract in 2018, but it was later announced that he had agreed to and signed a two-year deal with  's team.

 
 With a fresh team and fierce dedication, Viviani returns to the  , having registering a stage win at the Tour Down Under to get his calendar off to an imposing start. But riding in the testing conditions of Dubai is no cakewalk, especially considering the fact that Viviani will be competing among the greatest sprinters in the world.
 
 
 
 What are his plans and how does Viviani plan on achieving them? TOI Sports sat down with the Rio Olympic Gold medallist, a day before the Dubai Tour race began to find out all the answers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I've had a good start at the start of the season and I've worked really well during the winter with the team. I've tried the lead-out during the training camp and it's all working really well. I am already one stage win down so early in the year so the confidence is very high. This team is unbelievably good and we've come here in good morale and shape. The guys are ready to help me and I think we can start off well. The level of competition is pretty high. All the best sprinters in the world are here, so if you win here, you win in front of Marcel Kittel, Mark Cavendish and others. I think even in the Grand Tours, you don't have these many participants. So that makes Dubai Tour really special.
 
 
 
 
 Well you know people say that it's all about speed and power but positioning matters equally. Who has the best team to leadout has the advantage. I think this is the big chance I have this year because almost all teams are good with their leadouts so if I can triumph here, I will consider it one of the biggest wins of my career. It can very well be one of my career highlights. When you change team, you need to have a good feeling about it, and with the kind of guys I'm around, it's all boding pretty well. The atmosphere is healthy and the guys are backing each other tremendously.
 
 
 
 
 We are here to try and win stages, and winning individual stages will be the key. Also, I think that the fourth stage will be equally crucial. I am one of those sprinters who can climb the short routes well and I even finished fifth in the GC last year. This year I want to repeat it. There's little bit of pressure on my shoulders because the last three years, it has been Kittel and 'Cav', and I want to get my name up there. Personally, that is my challenge and goal. The immediate goal however is to win the first stage on Tuesday and then progress gradually. 
 
 
 
 
 Yes, but if you are the leader, you should know how to deal with pressure. There is something I learnt during my tenure at Sky and that is that sometimes this pressure helps the leader to bring out his best. I think you start revelling in it. If you have the team revolving around you, I take it as a responsibility. The feeling and rapport I share with this team is what makes all the difference. We have started the season with a winning mentality and all the members are great support to have
 
 
 
 
 We travel almost all around the world you know. We start the season in January in Australia and finish in October in China. The modern day cycling is something that gives us plenty of places to visit, Dubai being one of them. We like to come to this part of the world, to race here and enjoy the weather even though it tends to be a little on the warmer side. The Dubai Tour is now into its fifth edition and it kind of serves as a platform to get everything in order for the remainder of the season. I personally have found this part of the country competitive and I think Dubai Tour is a great learning curve for the youngsters. 
 
 
 
 I think Sky and Quick Steps are the two best teams in the world but very different. Obviously the primary goal remains the same but the ways you go about it are different. Team Sky is mainly about climbers, about GC, and winning the tour advantage is the main goal of the season. And while I have done that in the past, and achieved whatever I did with them, like I said earlier, this is my biggest chance. Since moving here in January, it has been extremely smooth to fit in Quick-Steps' scheme of things. With this team, you can really enjoy the pro life. It's a change, a good one, because as a rider and a person, this has been the best team for me so far. I can have my group who can help me beat the best in the world.
 
 
 
 
 When I missed out on the Giro, Dave Brailsford made the situation really clear. He told me that the team were going to ride completely for the GC, and that they had two leaders. The tactic wasn't to go there and win stages but to win the Giro. I was disappointed but I understood. They'd won the last four Tours but the problem was after. I did a lot of races but I missed the Vuelta because Froome did the double. The main thing was down to my future prospects. When a small door opened with Quick-Step then I knew it was a chance. 
 
 
 
 I think it has been one of the best winters of my career. I did not train at all in October but once November arrived, it was like I had a different amount of power in my legs. There was more quality and everything just fell in place. I started practicing at the training camps and that is where you start getting used to the conditions. And then the last 20 days, one month before the all-important race, I just worked on the aspects I needed to improve on, like power.
 
 
 
 
