The walls and streets in the heart of Thiruvananthapuram city turned vibrant recently, with installations and art performances, as part of the two-day   (LKS) which concluded on Saturday. Centred on the theme Pravasam (migration), the cultural carnival was held in 11 venues at prominent locales of the city. The organisers of the cultural show were the   under the state culture department.

 Pramod Payyannur, member secretary of Bharat Bhavan, and festival director, says that the event is also the first of its kind in the city. “There were installations by veteran artists like  ,   and various young artists which conveyed themes which dealt with the lives of expatriates. The works were displayed in the 1.5 km stretch from the   complex to the Nishagandhi open auditorium grounds. Within the limited time, we tried to showcase myriad cultural images to highlight pravasam as a whole.”
 
 The visual carnival kicked off at the premises of Legislative Assembly on Friday evening, where the installation of Kanayi Kunhiraman was displayed, titled Malayaliyude Aadima Pravasam, an ode to the spirit and adventurous nature of Malayalis who are always ready to set sail for a better tomorrow. The veteran sculptor who debuted in installation art with the work, says, “The scattered work of art is about the earnest yearning of the pravasis and the risks that they take to achieve their dreams. I see expatriates as people with an open mind, people who have travelled the world. Not everyone migrates for pleasure, some do it for survival, but all contribute to our State in a big way. The doors in the work are symbolic of the larger world outside which we aspire to reach. And inside is the world that we inhabit, Kerala, filled with multiplicities — of thinking, of being and of cultures. This Kerala is our motherland, and the migrants, citizens of the world.”
 
 The premises also became a platform to showcase Drishyashttakam, where one was introduced to eight or ashtta indigenous art forms of Kerala. Pramod says, “Through the visual narration, the eight traditional art forms and the regions of their origin were introduced to the public. The artists who were skilled in the respective art forms depicted them on stage following the narration by actor Jayaraj Warrier.”
 
 Known for his humorous style of presentation, Jayaraj rendered narrations of the art forms in the respective dialects of the region of their origin. 
 
 “Using slangs from Travancore to Malabar, he spoke in chaste Malayalam, focusing on the unique features and prominent personalities of each district.” 
 The event saw a multimedia production where art forms such as Koodiyattam, Pulikali, Theyyam, Padayani, Chavittu Nadakam, Pooppadayattam and Oppana were performed.
 
 The final day of the event, Saturday, also saw a multimedia show titled   where theatre artists presented segments of migrant life on stage — instances from the lives of Mahatma Gandhi and Charlie Chaplin, from the novels of S K Pottekkatt, from Benyamin’s Aadujeevitham and more. Each of the stories were of six minute duration, and the highlight was an adaptation of Benyamin’s novel by theatre actor turned artist Krishnan Balakrishan.
 
 Other highlights included a light and sound installation by actor Joy Mathew titled Dubayile Veil Vazhikal held at the Corporation Office, a 10 ft globe with a signature campaign for LKS, Riyas Komu’s text-and-light-box installation tilted Enna Pone? with a single line of text atop a 24 ft iron pole at the entrance of  , an exhibition by Archives and Archaeology departments at the Museum and Zoo premises and graffiti by fine arts students from Ernakulam on the walls at Palayam. 
 
