Acclaimed documentary   Dr   may have raised the bar high through works like ‘Indus Valley to Indira Gandhi’ and documentaries on Indian influence in Southeast Asia. But, the accolades never came without a fair share of challenges. In his autobiography, ‘An Unlikely Chemistry’   gives the reader a peek into his life and struggles as a filmmaker, and the contributions of his wife Mohana, a scientist, in inspiring him to make socially relevant documentaries in spite of their commercial unviability. 

 Krishnaswamy begins his story by describing how an unsolicited advice of his father’s friend to pursue a technical course in RCA studio in Manhattan, landed him in Columbia University in 1960 - doing a masters in film and television production. After four days of attending classes at the RCA Studio, Krishnaswamy realised that he was the only graduate among his peers who had just completed high school. He met the director and explained his situation and inability to continue with the course. Within 72 hours he met the head of the film and television department of Columbia University and was admitted as a special student. 
 
 The trip ahead was an adventurous one. Erik Barnouw, one of his professors chose Krishnaswamy as a co-author for his book on Indian film. Working with a professor of repute in visual communication gave Krishnaswamy all the confidence he needed. During his travel to India with Barnouw for research, he met stalwarts like V Shantaram and Satayjit Ray. 
 
 But, the true filmmaker in Krishnaswamy hadn’t been born yet. Disappointed by the poor portrayal of India in ‘March of Time’, a film on cinema industry in various countries, Krishnaswamy decided to make one that depicted India’s rich history. On his return to India, he began making small films like ‘Brown Diamond’ (on Neyveli lignite corporation) until he had the funds to launch his magnum opus ‘From Indus Valley to Indira Gandhi’, a historical documentary, whose title was inspired by Siegfried Kracauer’s ‘Caligary to Hitler’ (1947).
 
 Krishnaswamy says his wife was his pillar of strength in the arduous journey of making the film. The shooting started in July 1974, but Krishnaswamy ran into financial problems during the production as promised help did not reach him and a rift in the family after his father’s death strained it further. The title of the film also raised suspicions during Emergency. 
 
 He and his wife travelled 60,000km within the country to shoot in 120 locations. Acclaimed music Salil Chowdhury composed the background score while M S Subbulakshmi lent her voice to the film. After crossing the hurdles of certification board, he ran into major difficulties in distributing the documentary. It was then that renowned industrialist TT   arranged a screening of the film in Bombay. 
 
 Nadkarni, then head of Warner Brothers in India also arranged for a meeting of Krishnaswamy with the company’s vice president, who after watching the film bought its global distribution rights. In no time, Indians started flocking for distribution rights. When the film was screened, it ran for more than 100 days. Krishnaswamy says BJP leader L K Advani after attending a special show remarked, "It is a great film with a very bad title."
 
 In a way the book is more than just an autobiography. It is an account of social and cultural history of India itself and its cultural impact on Southeast Asia. 
 
 (The author is a culture enthusiast)
 
 
