BENGALURU: As many as 62,306 students of the 76,414 students who registered across 137 cities in the country, sat for the   examination on Sunday. The majority of students who took the test in Bengaluru claimed the exam was easier than the Common Entrance Test ( ) conducted by the  . Most said the exam was easier than last year’s ComedK as well.

 Sunday’s exam was conducted in 291 centres across the country, of which 108 centres were in 24 cities in Karnataka. The test, for students seeking admission to private engineering colleges in the state, was conducted in 48 centres in Bengaluru alone. The CET exam, held last month, is also a gateway for admissions to professional courses like engineering apart from others, but while ComedK is conducted by a consortium of private colleges, CET is conducted by the state government. 
 
 Hemakalash M, who took the exam at KLE Nijalingappa College in Rajajinagar, said, “Physics and mathematics sections were easy since most questions were from the text book.” That sentiment was echoed by Harish B, another candidate, who said, “Physics was easy and while maths was also easy, it was lengthy. Chemistry was tough, but overall this exam was easier than CET.”
 
 Snehal Shyamsukha, a student from ISC board, who took the test, said, “I found CET tough perhaps because it was my first competitive exam. I got more time to prepare for COMEDK. I am hoping to get a better rank because the number of candidates who have appeared for ComedK is also less than that in CET.”
 
 Faraz Rabbani, who travelled from Andhra Pradesh to take the test at Dayanand Sagar College of Engineering, said: “We took a night train and reached the test centre at 7.30am. I didn’t want to take any risks. Although I felt mathematics to be difficult and time consuming, the exam was good because physics was easy.”
 
 Madhav Jivrajan, a computer science engineering aspirant, who was coached at Deeksha Centre for Learning, said, “The exam was easy because most questions were application-based and not memory-based. Mathematics was lengthy and physics was the easiest of the sections. A lot of questions in all the sections were straight out of the NCERT syllabus.”
 
 No glitches anywhere
 
 The test was conducted from 10am to 1pm online, and ComedK authorities claimed there were no reports of technical glitches from any centre. However, five students in five different centres in Bengaluru began the examination five minutes past 10am.
 
 “They logged in five minutes after the exam had started all over the country, but they were allowed to take five minutes extra to finish since there is a built-in mechanism of the entrance gateway,” an official statement said.
 
 In Karnataka, 21,889 students out of 25,405 who applied, took the exam. Only one case of malpractice was reported — from a centre in West Bengal. Authorities say a student was found using a mobile phone during the test and was expelled immediately.
 
 
