AHMEDABAD: The   in Nalsarovar is making the   for many   who are either flocking to nearby water bodies that are more shallow, or making their way to other states. Even in January, the water in Nalsarovar is about five feet deep nowadays.

  While the ideal water depth for the habitat of most of these birds, including flamingoes is about two feet, over the years, the Nalsarovar has become much deeper due to seepage of water from irrigation canals say birders and ornithologists. They say that there has been a drastic fall in the number of flamingoes and other migratory birds to Nalsoravar in recent years.
 
 Refuting claims of irrigation seepage, S J Pandit, deputy conservator of forests, said, “The rainfall in Surendranagar, the main catchment, was high this year leading to more water in the lake.”
 
 Even in January, claimed Pandit, “Flamingoes are still to arrive as the water level is at five feet, and at its peak.” Pandit said flamingoes have already arrived in nearby ponds where there is less water, and as they prefer a water depth of two feet for their habitat. He further addes that only 50 odd flamingoes have arrived at Nalsarovar and the number will soon increase.
 
 Principal chief conservator of forest G K Sinha too admitted that the flamingos are yet to arrive at Nalsarovar, but he said that they are in the periphery and others parts of the state.
 
 Of course, the loss of Nalsarovar has increased bird sightings in nearby village water bodies, many of which are outside the protected periphery of the Ramsar site. Experts say migratory birds are becoming vulnerable to poaching as there is no surveillance over village ponds close to the lake.
 
 Forest officials said the wetland is turning into a deep lake and losing its charm as a preferred habitat for greater and lesser flamingoes. An official said on conditions of anonymity that excess water from   canal seeps into the lake raising the water level. “If this is not checked,” said the officer, “it is likely to discourage the migratory birds that come here to spend the winter in shallow waters.” If the water level rises anywhere to the depth of five feet, usually birds fly to other states, the officer said. “Though none of the Narmada canal branches pass near Nalsarovar or its catchment areas, Narmada water released in river Bhogavo and distributary canals of Narmada overflow into rivulets which empty in Nalsarovar,” the officer added.
 
 “This leads to rising water level in the lake discouraging the migratory birds,” the senior forest official said.
 
 
