JAISALMER:   started its first phase of exercise operation 'Garam Hawa' on the direction of   IG   at the international Indo-Pak border adjoining Rajasthan from Sunday. In the exercise all officers and jawans of all branches of BSF are taking part. The exercise will continue till April 28. Also extra mobilization has been done at the border, strict vigil has been kept along with additional security personnel has been deployed at sensitive places. BSF border guarding capabilities will be strengthened with the exercise. 

 The exercise will also check the BSF capabilities in extreme hot and hostile conditions. BSF is organising many   this time in the operation.
 
 BSF Rajasthan Frontier DIG Ravi Gandhi said many drill exercise will be performed. He added that in exercise, patrolling has increased. Vehicle patrolling, foot patrolling has also increased and checking for footprints that was done twice a day has been increased to thrice a day. Similarly, loopholes in border security system have been removed and entire border has made intact and the entire border area will be sealed. Patrolling will be increased while tightening the security arrangements.
 
 He said new high technique gadgets,   cameras, surveillance equipment are installed at border and now border guarding has also been done using these machinery and this is helpful in making complete border dominance.
 
 Gandhi said in scorching heat and dust storm, there is always a chance of intrusion, so during the exercise, additional security personnel have been deployed at sensitive places. All commandants and other officers have reached the border and taking part in the exercise.
 
 He said they have started patrolling in the area and are making strict vigil in border villages and orders have been given to foil any kind of possible intrusion and untoward activities. He said smuggling and intrusion efforts are made across the border into Indian border and looking to this, strict vigilance is being maintained at the border. Apart from this, inputs from intelligence are being received. 
 
 
