NEW DELHI: As emergency specialists, Dr Harshad Wankhede and his team saved many lives at   daily. But when they met with an accident on the   early on Sunday, there was no help for almost an hour.

 Wankhede, the chief medical officer in the medicine emergency at AIIMS, was on his way to Agra to celebrate his birthday with his junior residents.
 
  
 “Dr Wankhede was on evening duty on Saturday, which gets over at 8pm. We don’t know when they made the plan to go to Agra. We got the news of the accident in the morning. The survivors said it took nearly an hour for the ambulance to arrive,” said a senior resident doctor at AIIMS who did not want to be quoted.
 
 After the accident, by the time police arrived Wankhede and two of his juniors, Dr   (25) and Dr Himbala (25), had already died.
 
 Four others, Dr Abhinava Singh, Dr Cathreen Halam, Dr Mahesh Kumar and Dr Jitendra Maurya were injured. They were rushed to a local hospital and later brought to AIIMS Trauma Centre. “Dr Catherine suffered hip dislocation. She was operated upon by Dr  , chief of the trauma centre and her condition is stable,” said an AIIMS official.
 
 He added that Maurya has a fracture in one hand and he is under observation. Singh suffered a fracture in the spine and she is admitted in the orthopaedic department. Kumar suffered rib fracture and is admitted in trauma surgery. “All of them are out of danger and stable. However, they are in shock. We haven’t tried to speak to them about the accident as yet,” said a senior doctor.
 
 The chief spokesperson of AIIMS, Dr Aarti Vij, said institute director Dr Randeep Guleria has expressed deep condolence on the untimely demise of the young resident doctors and has constituted a committee to provide assistance to their family members. Union health minister J P Nadda also visited the family members of the injured doctors.
 
 “Dr Wankhede was on night duty on Sunday. He was to take charge from the doctors on duty at 8pm. But he is no more. We are in shock,” said one of his colleagues.
 
 
