Launching the 70th year of   and marking the last phase of the India-UK Year of Culture, The British Council, Delhi, installed   of the Moon, displaying a 23-feet wide replica of the moon, using the imagery from NASA’s  . The replica was stationed at the centre of the building from February 23 to March 1, ending British artist Luke Jerram’s India tour on Holi. 

 
 
 The structure is half a million times smaller than the real moon. A staff member at the council shared that the moon was created at an approximate scale of 1:500,000, and each centimetre of the spherical structure represented 5km of the moon’s surface. The structure, which was internally lit and got even more real at dusk, was kept at the entrance initially, and was later moved to the centre of the campus. It was a digital print of the moon’s image on a nylon-like cloth finely stitched together. 
 Along with the visual it offers, the museum had surround sound to create a ‘space ambience’ by British composer Dan Jones. The structure, before arriving in Delhi, also travelled to other cities, including Mumbai, Calcutta, and Udaipur. Some students visiting the installation said that this was the closest one could get to the moon.
 
 
 
 The man behind The Museum of the Moon, Luke Jerram, said, "For eons, the moon has impacted society and culture. It’s been worshipped as a deity, used as a timekeeper, and has inspired artists, poets, scientists, writers and musicians worldwide. Before gas lamps and electricity, the moon was the only night-time source of light. It was a vital light source for navigation and to work by. Living in cities, illuminated by electricity, we have, in many ways, disconnected from the moon. I hope this project restores a sense of wonder, inspires questions and reconnects people with the night sky."
 
 
 
 Alan Gemmell OBE, Director India, British Council said, "2018 marks 70 years of the British Council in India and the end of the UK-India Year of Culture. We’ve been inspired every day of the last 70 years by the artists, students, scientists and policymakers we’ve worked with across India. This year, we want to share the stories of the great things we’ve done together, and inspire millions of young people to develop connections for the next 70 years. We hope our own moon landing at our home on Kasturba Gandhi Marg will be talked about for the years to come."
 The staffers taking care of the structure say that the response has been good and a significant number of people had turned up to see the installation, especially because of its size and imagery. 
 
 -Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
