A magical cure does not really exist in the world of medicines. But if we were to talk about one, it would undoubtedly be physical activity. Indeed the magic of physical activity provides health benefits that no single therapy can provide. Being physically active is synonymous to being healthy enough to distant many types of chronic diseases including heart problems, gastrointestinal problems and sleep disorders as well. The current work culture however does not permit many to devote time for physical activities. To add to this, the development in technology has also curtailed the scope for being physically active. 

 The level of physical activity that our ancestors maintained was high enough to bless them with a  . The boon of science and technology has definitely made our lives easier and fast. But unfortunately this has resulted in a drastic drop in the level of physical activity. A substantial decrease in various forms of physical activities due to modernization has had a bad impact on our health and serves as an open invitation for several illnesses. It is high time that we realize the importance of physical activity and make it an integral part of our daily routine. Cycling is one such fun-filled activity which can protect us from several diseases and help us lead a healthy life.
 
 A study was recently conducted in the Minneapolis-Saint Paul (MSP) metropolitan area to determine whether the use of bicycle as a mode of transport would have a beneficial impact on cardio-metabolic risk factors (factors like obesity, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, that increase the risk of heart-related disorders). This was achieved by conducting an online survey for the likely bicycle commuters. A total of 1450 individuals aged between 20-64 years and residing in 7-county MSP metropolitan area responded to the online survey. The survey collected information on frequency of commute and destination cycling along with the prevalent cardio-metabolic risk factors (obesity, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, low high- density lipoprotein cholesterol, and high triglycerides) and demographic characteristics.
 
 People who took up cycling frequently, were less likely to be obese. The chance of the frequent cyclers developing hypertension or having high triglyceride levels was also low. As per the calculations, three bicycling trips per week translated into 20% fewer cardio-metabolic risk factors in the commuters.
 Cycling is a simple form of an 'all-age' activity that can keep a check on various cardio-metabolic risk factors. Incorporating cycling in our daily routine might thus help us maintain a  . It is time that we realize the value of this not-so- costly exercise as a mode of active transportation to move towards a healthier future.
 
 
 
 
