PUNE: Two halls called ‘Non-Violence’ and ‘Truth’ with photographs on themes linked to Mahatma Gandhi will form an integral part of the   palace revamp even as the world will celebrate Gandhiji’s 150th birth anniversary in 2019.

 The 1892 archaeological site is the only Adarsh monument from Pune that made it to the 100 such sites in the country where tourist facilities will be upgraded following the   announcement on Thursday.
 
 About 2.9 lakh tourists visit Aga Khan palace every year. Only Shaniwarwada gets more tourists. Even so, basic information on Gandhi and his wife Kasturba are lacking here, experts said. 
 
  
  
 
 The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) now plans to refurbish the picture gallery in Aga Khan palace and build three halls on the ideas he believed in. There will be Wi-Fi facilities too.
 
 Bipin Chandra Negi, deputy superintending archaeologist of ASI's  , said Aga Khan palace has been added to 100 Adarsh monuments in India.
 
 “We will upgrade the facilities here. There will be ramps for the disabled, an interpretation centre, drinking water, and approach ways,” Negi added.
 
 Social worker  , who is also helping with the revamp of the palace, said the monument needed specific information on the Gandhis and their close links to the monument.
 
 Patil said the picture gallery housing photos and portraits that were put up for an exhibition in Delhi during Gandhi’s birth centenary year in 1969 is partially complete. 
 
 “Tourists, including foreigners, visit the monument. They wish to know about the Mahatma and his Pune connection. The gallery hopes to fill this information gap,” said Patil.
 
 The monument will highlight information about his political mentor Gopal Krishna Gokhale, mementos he received from Pune and information highlighting his two-year stay in the city.
 
 Close to 125 pictures related to Gandhi’s stay in Maharashtra have been procured for the gallery. “After the Budget provision, all these features will come up at Aga Khan palace,” Patil said.
 
 B G Yelikar, conservation assistant, Pune sub-circle of ASI, told TOI that a toilet block on the front side of the monument, a ticket counter, a locker room, an upgraded canteen, signages and seating arrangement will be added. Some repairs will also be taken up.
 
 
