GURUGRAM: One of the biggest impediments in Dwarka expressway’s path, 68 buildings or concrete structures in  , could be razed this weekend as   makes a concerted effort to free up land for a project that is running several years behind schedule.

 The urban development authority, which has to hand over land to the National Highways Authority of India ( ), on Friday served notices to the occupants, asking them to vacate the premises within 24 hours. The notices were issued under sub-section (2) of Section 18 of the Huda Act, 1977.
 
 
  
 Residents of these buildings had asked for alternative plots but the Punjab and Haryana high court had put a stay on the allotment of land since these structures do not have registries of property and have only general power of attorney ( ). Therefore, an official said, occupants of these buildings were not entitled to an alternative plot.
 
 Once the stretch in New Palam Vihar is cleared, the expressway can be linked with Delhi. At a joint meeting of the MCG, Huda, NHAI, HVPNL (power transmission company) and GMDA on Thursday, the agencies set a time frame of June end by which they expect to remove all obstacles on the 18km stretch of the expressway that is in Gurugram. 
 
 According to sources, Huda has requested the state government for increased police protection and cranes for the demolition drive at New Palam Vihar. 
 
 On Friday, a TOI team visited the stretch to find out if there has been any progress in the construction of the road since we published a report on April 15, saying there were 14 points that were holding up the expressway. Most of these structures have not been removed yet. In Sihi village, however, structures coming in the way of the have been removed.
 
 “MCG will shift temples in   and a shrine near   by June 15,” said MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav. Similarly, private properties in Sector 110 and Bajghera will be removed by Huda within two weeks.
 
 But there will still be a major hurdle that may delay the road further. The relocation of power transmission lines across the stretch has not been completed. Sources said the contractor was supposed to lay the cables underground by May 23.
 
 Sources said the authorities planned to complete laying of underground cables within 30 days to make way for the road. The agencies also have plans to connect Dwarka Expressway with NH-8 via Central Peripheral Road (CPR), and will have to clear a few hurdles on this stretch.
 
 
