NEW DELHI: The area neighbouring Rohini Sector 2 has been on edge since last week. Angry banners hang from buildings in   Market in Mangolpur Kalan in north-west Delhi with slogans claiming that the enforcement team’s sealing drive constituted “atrocities against the people”. Waving a sheaf of documents, his other hand describing a wide arc, Vidya Prakash Lohchab, pradhan of the area, declared, “This is our land, and the attempts to remove us after we have invested our life’s earning here is nothing but dictatorship. People bought each plot here for Rs18, which was a huge amount in 1974.”

 The shop in which Lohchab, 70, sat with six others, all pulling at a hookah, has a board with “All Rohini Jaat Sabha” painted on it. It used to be a chemist’s outlet before it was sealed in 2007. Many other commercial units operating on the 145   at Sanjay Nagar Market were shut down too. Eleven years later, the seals lie broken and most of the proscribed premises have been converted into residential buildings with 4-5 floors. The residents maintained that the seals withered away due to natural wear and tear over a decade. “Even iron locks and shutters rust away in 11 years. How will seals survive?” Lohchab asked rather disingenuously.
 
  
 The more likely truth came from a local living there since 1974. Requesting TOI not to identify him and put him at risk of eviction, he said, “Residential properties were spared in 2007. But families have grown since, and everyone started adding floors to their houses, even selling them.” While most sealed shops on the outer road continue to remain closed, many property dealerships, granite showrooms, juice bars, construction material outlets and gyms have opened in the inner lanes.
 
 But it’s not only commercial properties that are in dispute.  , which claims ownership of the entire land, says residential buildings have been built on encroached land and they need to be demolished. Residents argue that land ownership lies at the centre of the faceoff. They maintain their predecessors got the land under Indira Gandhi’s Emergency-period 20-point programme. Sandeep Shaukeen, president of the residents’ welfare association, was firm that landless labourers were given 900 sq ft plots in 1974 under this programme. “It was initially on a nine-year lease, but a 1983 order of the then lieutenant governor, Jagmohan, made it a permanent allotment,” insisted Shaukeen.
 
 Lohchab underlined this claim with, “If the residents were not the land owners, why did   allot alternative land to residents of Block C and D in 1988 when acquiring 59 plots to build the main road?” Residents also argued that in the selling and buying plots and floors, land revenue records and other government documents have been used.
 
 A member of the Supreme Court- appointed monitoring committee told TOI, “Multi-storey buildings have come up under the nose of the authorities. Sealed shops have been opened without official permission and there are several illegal constructions. We have directed the concerned authority to initiate action here.” A   official said the civic body could only assist in anti-encroachment action since “Sanjay Market is under the possession of DDA, which has the onus of taking action.” The DDA spokesperson refused a comment saying he was not familiar with the facts.
 
 This lackadaisical civic oversight has allowed over 6,000 people to grow roots in the area and any action to evict them will be fraught. As Lohchab boasted, “The sealing team that came here on May 5 was forced to return by the thousands who confronted them.”
 
 
