TIRUPUR: Apparel exporters in the Tirupur cluster have been directed by customs officials in   to submit records of exports done by them since 2004.

 Exporters, however, said it was not practical to maintain records for such long time in the less computerized era. “This move can strangulate the industry. Because the customs department can cancel Importers Exporters (IE) Code, if exporters fail to submit the records,” they said.
 
 Units in the district have been exporting apparels to various western countries. The knitwear exports recorded Rs 23,000 crore in the last financial year, which is Rs 3,000 crore less than the previous financial year. The goods would be transited mostly through ports in Tuticorin, Kochi and Chennai, and sometimes through airports in Coimbatore and Chennai. 
 
 In order to encourage exports, the Union government had introduced duty drawback and other incentives, at certain rates in accordance with the value of the exported goods. It was mandatory to exporters to submit shipping bills in banks and obtain Bill Realisation Certificate (BRC), which showed that a exporter had received the payment as per the bill from a foreign buyer. Due to various reasons, the partial or full payment would not have happened, and during which the exporters should submit documents validating the reasons behind the issue.
 
 Since 2014, the Reserve Bank of India has automated the system. If exporters did not submit BRC or close the shipping bills within two years, they will be placed on a caution list. These data will be uploaded online by banks under the Export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS), and the violators could even be stripped of their IE code. The measure was taken as exporters were found to have involved in fraud to receive duty drawback
 
 For submission of records of exports done till December 2015, RBI has extended time for one year till December 2018. 
 
 Amid this, customs officials from   port have sent an alert to exporters asking them to submit records of the exports done since 2004.
 
 “The BJP-led central government has promised to ease business doing, but this kind of move will strangulate the export business. It could have happened due to misinterpretation. But it would be a herculean task for the knitwear units to get the export records for about 15 years. Only recently, many companies have switched to the computerized system of bookkeeping from manual and hard copies. So the customs department should revoke the order,” said president of Tirupur Exporters’ Association Raja M Shanmugham.
 
 
