COIMBATORE: The Madras high court on Tuesday asked a private spinning mill at   to produce two girls, who according to their parents were held captive by them, before it on January 11. The ruling came based on a habeas corpus petition filed by their parents.

 The girls, however, told TOI that they were neither held captive nor harassed by the employer. They said this was just a case of not granting them leave.
 
 R Chinnaponnu, mother of 17-year-old Ellammal Raman, said her daughter, along with her relative  , 18, joined the KPR Mills located at Karumathampatti in September last through a broker.
 
  hails from Karunkalikuppam in Tiruvannamalai district and Bhuvaneshwari from a village near Vellore.
 
 After joining the mill, the girls sought leave for two weeks for Diwali. “But they were not granted any leave. In November, my daughter told me that she had rashes all over her body and also complained of bed bug issue at the accommodation facility. She told me that she did not want to stay there. Bhuvaneshwari’s mother Kuppu visited them and requested the mill authorities to send the girls on leave, but that also went unheeded,” Chinnaponnu said.
 
 Subsequently, they approached advocate C  , who filed a complaint with the Karumathampatti police station. The police station inspector, Shanmugam, told TOI that he had spoken to the mill owners and found that there was no harassment and the girls were not held captive. “I did not speak to the girls then. But nobody registered a complaint. We only received a letter through a registered post,” he said.
 
 The mill manager, Suresh Kumar, told TOI that this was just a case of not granting them (the girls) leave. “The girls joined in September. So, we told them that they will get leave in January as per the company policy. But if they had insisted, we would have given them leave. We are employee-friendly,” he said.
 
 The girls also told TOI that they were neither harassed nor held captive by the employer. “We sought leave, but were not given. We did not like to work here and wanted to return to our native,” said Ellammal.
 
 Bhuvaneshwari said her parents were daily wage workers and they were very poor. “They cannot afford to travel all the way here to take us. We just want to go,” she said.
 
 The advocate, C Rajkumar, said the girls will be produced before the court as directed. “The court will decide on the case,” he said. 
 
