PULIVENDULA (Kadapa):  , who chaired the   at Pulivendula on Wednesday as part of the  , interrupted  , advising him not to use   for political gains. At one point, some of the   (TDP) leaders and minister for agriculture Somireddi Chandramohan Reddy tried to stop him, but the MP continued his speech, forcing Naidu to intervene.

 The MP, during his speech, said that Gandikota and Chitravati projects were completed by 80 per cent during late YS Rajasekhar Reddy’s time. He said Rajasekhar Reddy was responsible for several irrigation projects, including these two projects, which provide water for Pulivendula area.
 
 Naidu told the MP that Janmabhoomi programme was to serve the people and it was organised by the government. He said there was no place for politics and sought to advise the MP to give him his speech in writing so that he could read it out. But when the MP insisted that he be allowed to speak, the CM ordered disconnection of his mike and said that the occasion was only to speak on developmental issues.
 
 Later, addressing the people, the CM said that the government had created a horticulture hub in Rayalaseema. The TDP government had converted the drought-prone region into a water-surplus zone. He further said that the government was planning to start food processing units in the region that would benefit the people with employment and the region with business and tourist activities.
 
 Chandrababu Naidu said that he had taken up drought mitigation as a challenge and had worked hard during the last three years, thereby increasing the groundwater levels. The standing crops too were saved with the water harvesting initiatives and rain gun technology, he recalled.
 
 He said that the government had successfully implemented loan-waiver for farmers despite financial crisis. The government had given debt relief to the farmers in three phases, fulfilling his promise to them before the elections, he said and added that he would not go back on any promise. Naidu said he was working hard to ensure that every welfare initiative reached the people.
 
 
