NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that the Indian cricket team's collective batting failure in both innings of the recently concluded Centurion Test, which saw South Africa claim the series with a match to go, could have been avoided with better application.

 
 
 
 
 In his column for TOI, Srikkanth singled out India's meek batting at Centurion, which barring skipper  's 153 left the tourists struggling to play catch-up with South Africa. 
 
 "To say the defeat in the second Test was an embarrassment is an understatement. The manner in which the batsmen surrendered in the second innings proved beyond doubt they lacked the stomach for a battle," wrote the 58-year-old. "I am not going to get into the manner in which the Indian batsmen lost their wickets, all I can say is the South African bowling was not as menacing as it was made out to be and it was lack of application that cost the game. A target of 287 was not easy at the same time it was not impossible."
 
 India's first century of the series came from Kohli, who made 153 in their first innings of 307 in reply to South Africa's 335. In that innings, the next highest score was opener  's 46 followed by 38 from R Ashwin down the order. KL Rahul (10),   (0),   (10),   (19) and   (15) all disappointed. 
 
 
 
 
 Srikkanth, like most experts have done, rued a lack of support for the Indian skipper. "My heart goes out to Virat Kohli the batsman. The manner in which he handled the bowling in the first innings made us believe he was playing on a different wicket against a different attack. He deserved support from his top order colleagues. Barring M Vijay and later R Ashwin, there was little else for Kohli to fall back on," he wrote. "To score half the team's score and do that effortlessly shows the class of Kohli. It was a pity that his early fall in the second innings shut the match as a contest. I did expect the batsmen to come out with a better show during the chase. At the end of the day this team looks like a team of good bowlers and one great batsman."
 
 Srikkanth was pleased to see India's pace bowlers and Ashwin do well across both Tests in South Africa. "The Indian bowlers on the other hand have done a terrific job. Barring the first innings at Cape Town where they leaked 40 runs more that they should have. They did make up in the second innings by bowling the hosts cheaply. Honestly the team management could not have expected anything better from their bowlers," wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs. 
 
 "South Africa prevailed during the clutch situations, thanks to their superior fielding. On the other hand the Indian fielders let their bowlers down badly by putting them too many chances. The visitors have no excuse left, they were beaten by a team that showed more purpose and importantly, played like a team that wanted to win."
 
 The third and final Test starts January 24 at the Wanderers in Johannesburg.
 
