Pedestrians in the city are the most vulnerable lot as they are not safe on the roads or on the footpaths either. Statistics show that one-third of the total fatalities in road accidents in the city were pedestrians in 2017 - out of the 216 deaths 72 were pedestrians. 

 Walking on roads has always been a risky affair, but it turns out that one has to be careful while using footpaths too as damaged footpaths pose a risk to users at various places in the city. Authorities have been turning a blind eye towards the issue for long. 
 
 One such example are the footpaths on either side of 80 feet road in Anna Nagar near  . “I have seen many people get their legs trapped in the holes in the footpaths and end up injuring themselves. We, who use it regularly, know where to be cautious. Those who are new to the place often end up in danger,” said S Moorthy, a shopkeeper from the locality. 
 
 “We have pointed out the issue to the civic authorities whenever they come for inspection and other works. But no one has taken up the work,” said  , who works in an optical store in the locality. 
 
 The pathways on the both sides of PTR bridge, which connects Anna Nagar with Teppakulam, is no better. The concrete blocks, which cover the surface, are missing at many places along the bridge which is more than 200m long. 
 
 “During the day manage without any issues, but at night it is hard to spot the pits. The problem has existed for long. While the pathways at the commercial areas in the city are maintained damage free, the same importance is not given to other areas,” said S Jeyachandran from Teppakulam. 
 
 Another location where the footpath is unusable is the congested Panagal road, which connects important places like Government Rajaji Hospital, Sivaganga Road, Madurai district collectorate and Goripalayam junction. The channel running alongside the road is left uncovered at a few places. “Since the channel is not covered completely, people are unable to use it. Although the road is choking with traffic, pedestrians are forced to walk amidst the vehicles,” said J Thirupathi, an auto rickshaw driver. 
 
 In the absence of a footpath, devotees to   as well as the public at the Thalavai Street have to use the same narrow road competing with motorists. The manhole coverings made up of iron grill on the road poses a threat to both the pedestrians and motorists alike. “Many get scared as the covering pops up when it is pressed on one end. People stumbling is a common sight,” said B  , a shopkeeper from the locality. 
 
 Similarly, the footpath near   in KK Nagar also poses a threat to the users. A large number of students can use the pathway if the drainage is properly covered and made user friendly, said a student from the college. 
 
 When contacted, city corporation commissioner Aneesh Sekhar said that they are planning to survey all roads and systematically fulfil the requirements. “We are planning to totally redefine the streets. Our idea is to give importance all sorts of people like pedestrians, motorists and cyclists. Slowly, we will take on all the roads one by one,” he said. 
 
 
