NAGPUR: Amid paddy growers of east Vidarbha reeling under a major pest attack, some of them who have adopted   farming claim they could prevent losses in their fields using natural pesticides.

 They had gathered at a meet organized in the city by Bijotsav — an organization promoting organic agriculture. As each of them spoke about their experiences, the   from   and Chandrapur districts claimed to have reaped a rich harvest of paddy this year.
 
 Their claims come at a time when the paddy growing belt spread in  , Gondia and Chandrapur districts has witnessed a major attack of white fly and sucking pests. Farmers here, have reported that their yield has nearly halved. There have been instances of farmers simply burning down the standing crop, as the yield was not enough to cover the harvesting expenses too.
 
 The farmers at Bijotsav said they used a mix of extract of 10 different leaves found locally. They can be easily identified as goats and other animals avoid eating these type of leaves, which have inherent properties of a pesticide, The idea was spread by local groups promoting organic farming, they added. 
 
 “It's a traditional formula which has also been improvised. I came to know about it, during a visit to Andhra Pradesh. The farmers there use an extract of different leaves as a natural pesticide. I brought the idea to Vidarbha and spread it among other groups,” said Avil Borkar, secretary of Gramin Yuva Prakatik Mandal, an organization from Bhandara which promotes organic farming. Its called ‘data parnacha ark’ in Marathi, which literally translates into extract of 10 leaves. 
 
 “I had used the data parnacha ark in my fields and could yield as much as 18 quintals of paddy in an acre,” said Anand Thekar, a farmer from Javrapuri Meda village in Chandrapur district. The leaves are available locally and have been effective against pest attacks. I did not suffer any losses despite the attack,” said Thekar. 
 
 Mauluk Raout of Ragaboti village in Chandrapur district had brought a bottle for display. “I am selling it for Rs60 a litre,” he said. 
 
 “I sprayed a solution of salt and water on seeds before sowing My fields were not impacted by the pest attack,” claimed Bhaurao Phunde of Kesalwadi village in Chandrapur.
 
 This is also a traditional method, under which the seeds are soaked in salt water before sowing. This takes care of the harmful micro organisms, said Borkar.
 
 
