MUMBAI: Main accused in the murder of former Shiv Sena corporator Ashok Sawant, Jagdish Pawar alias Jagga, came calling at the home of a real estate consultant employed with a big construction firm on Sunday night.

 
 Sources said Jagga, who has been on the run along with Abhijit Mane alias  , since the murder on January 7, landed up at the Ghatkopar residence of the consultant. The consultant reportedly panicked on seeing the duo through the peephole. His elderly parents are said to have told Jagga their son had not returned from the   office of the construction firm.
 
 The city crime branch got whiff of Jagga’s presence near   and rushed there, but the duo managed to escape, the source added. A well-known construction company has been carrying out ahuge redevelopment project at Samta Nagar in Kandivli for the past 10 years to rehabilitate over 2,000 tenants. Sawant was chairman of the housing society.
 
 On Monday, the builder lodged a complaint with the police. “We believe Jagga and Blacky have run out of money now and that is why they came to the consultant’s house. Till last week, Jagga’s location based on mobile tower records was Goa. He had been calling up employees of the construction firm and boasting about Sawant’s murder,” said a police official.
 
 Meanwhile, the police on Monday arrested former police constable Deepak Hanvate from Dahisar. “We have arrested the seventh accused in the case. Hanvate provided shelter to Jagga at Dahisar and later in Nashik. We are trying to find out his motive in aiding and abetting Jagga,” said an officer on condition of anonymity. Samta Nagar police said they are yet to ascertain the motive behind Sawant’s murder. It appears Sawant was to get the contract for cable connection in the housing project and Jagga wanted a share.
 
  activist  , who was arrested last week, has told police Sawant’s murder was intended to send out a message to the builder and exert pressure on him. Waghmare, an MPSC tutor, had filed RTI queries about the project and had begun demanding money in exchange for suppressing the allegations. According to Waghmare, the builder had stopped paying him after Sawant’s intervention. He has said Jagga and he had been plotting the murder for the past one year.
 
