MUMBAI: The   is considering a rejig of its private equity (PE) business by combining multiple middle-market offerings into a single big fund. Group company   runs five funds totalling over $1 billion — making it the largest corporate-sponsored PE franchise in the country — and had struck investments in companies like Uber Technologies and Star Health Insurance.

 Tata is expected to take a call on consolidating PE operations ahead of its plans to tap the market for raising fresh funds, group sources directly aware of the matter said. The proposal is in sync with the group’s strategy to drive growth through a simpler organisational structure, scaling up businesses by combining units in similar lines of operations and benefiting from synergy effects. 
 
 The global backers (called Limited Partners, or LPs, in investing parlance) — such as   of Japan, South Korean sovereign fund and   of Singapore — will be closely watching the developments at Tata PE. These three together contributed nearly 65% of the total corpus of Tata Opportunities Fund, which had raised $600 million five years ago. 
  
 
 A growth equity fund ($250 million), healthcare fund, innovations fund and special situations fund are the other four operations that make up Tata Capital’s PE platform. The last three are sub-$100 million offerings. “Some of the funds are small and focus on specific segments, which restricts them from scaling up. Clubbing the multiple funds together will create a single, large platform,” a group executive said. The executive, however, added that no final decision has been taken yet.
 
 An emailed query to Tata Capital remained unanswered.
 
 This will be the first consolidation move within the group under chairman N Chandrasekaran. The last internal rejig happened under former chairman Cyrus Mistry when CMC was merged with TCS in 2015.
 
 The latest development comes at a time when Tata Capital is in the midst of a leadership change. Group long-timer Praveen Kadle, who has been at the helm of Tata Capital since its formation a decade ago, will be moving out from the CEO and MD’s role this April. Replacing Kadle will be former ICICI Bank veteran and ex-True North partner Rajiv Sabharwal, who has joined the group’s financial services company early this month. 
 
 Tata Opportunities Fund made investments in Uber,  , Tata Sky, Shriram Properties,   and TVS Logistics. Tata Capital Growth Fund counts Janalakshmi Financial Services and Star Health Insurance among its portfolio companies. Tata funds invested in both group companies and outside entities, though the skew at times has been in favour of the former. Aditya Birla Group and Mahindra are among other Indian conglomerates with PE offerings, though much smaller in scope. Reliance Industries is a prolific backer of several PE as an LP. 
 
 Besides PE, the Tata Group is looking to consolidate defence, retail and infrastructure businesses by combining all related ventures under a single umbrella. Further, it intends to sell small, loss-making and non-core businesses. These moves are being explored as the group wants to transform from a widespread conglomerate into a leaner business house.
 
 
