NEW DELHI: The Cyber Cell of Delhi Police has identified the alleged mastermind of the hacker   that had been defacing and hacking Indian government websites on the instructions of Pakistan spy agency ISI. The police on Sunday informed the court about the kingpin, Dasin, based in J&K and another associate based in Madhya Pradesh.

 The breakthrough came after the two arrested  , Shahid and Aadil, gave information about their network. They were produced in court on Sunday, which remanded them to eight days’ police custody.
 
 A team led by additional DCP KPS Malhotra will go to Sri Nagar to arrest Dasin, said officials.   have sought assistance from a J&K-based military intelligence unit for nabbing him.
 
 A source in an intelligence agency said that the suspect, Dasin, was using two Facebook accounts, dasinhaxor and D3Dasin, to remain in touch with accused Shahid Malla. “Dasin is a member of a Pak-based anti-India hacking group called ‘Black Leets’ and was previously part of similar groups called ‘Pak Cyber Attacker’ and ‘Team Leets’,” the source said.
 
 The police said that the suspect codenamed D3Dasin has allegedly hacked several Indian websites registered with “gov.in” domain. The hackers had briefly posted the claims on their Facebook account soon after they defaced the website. “However, they are still available on Pakistan-based Facebook pages like ‘BlackLeets1337’ and ‘Pakistanicaptain’.
 
 The cops are also probing the role of a well-known Pak-based hacker, Hunter Bajwa, who was in constant touch with Dasin and Shahid. According to police, they are part of the same team. Bajwa’s team is suspected to have hacked hundreds of Indian website over the years. On its Facebook page, the group has claimed to have hacked 530 websites.
 
 TOI had reported about the Pak-based associates of the arrested hackers. The men, Faisal Afzal and Amir Muzaffar, who belong to the pro-Pakistan hacking group called Pak Cyber Attacker, or PCA are based in Lahore and Dubai. Cops said that a major part of investigation is now focussing on the money trail between foreign players and the two Kashmiri youths. 
 
 
