GURUGRAM: It’s the annual gathering of the best Indian golfers and the trick is to pick and choose. How they have progressed, what are their strategies this week, and how it all points toward a grand party if a local hero picks up the prized Hero Indian Open trophy again.

 
 “Outside of the prestige of the event, it is also an opportunity for the young unheralded Indians to make a splash, secure their status on the tours,” the country’s USPGA Tour star and 2015 winner Anirban Lahiri pointed out. “I think all eyes will be on SSP as well as he has done over the last couple of years. It’s the best Indian field we’ve ever had, also the most in-form Indian field we’ve ever had.”
 
 “Let’s see,” said 2016 & 2017 champion SSP, when all heads turned towards him. “I have won four European Tour events in India and maybe the secret is having Indian food. But seriously, when the Europeans ask me how I manage to do so well at home I say ‘nothing, it’s just that I played well’.”
 
 During last season’s competition only, seven players finished the tournament under par and that is why accuracy gets the better of power on the demanding layout of the DLF G&CC Gary Player Black Knight course. “Percentage golf is the way,” said Anirban.
 
 Shiv Kapur, a three-time winner on the Asian Tour last year, has a different approach though. “I’m going to play more attacking this year. You tend to be defensive when you think that it tough. If you attack, you may get a few bogeys, but you may get some birdies. If you play defensively, you hit a bunch of pars and if a big number hits you, it’ll be hard to recover.”
 
 Anirban, who switched to Callaway clubs early this year, has had to make a few adjustments. “That is one major hurdle I have crossed because changing after 10 years may be a little tricky. Overall, I think my game is in a good place.”
 
 As far as the course is concerned, “The greens are definitely better than last year, softer. The changes on the back nine can go either way. Overall, you can see the course playing a fraction harder but the biggest challenge out here is on the greens. A lot of your decision making will be based on two factors. One is the wind, the other is the pin position. I might play it defensively one day and aggressively one day.”
 
 For SSP, who has been experimenting with different shafts for his driving, why change a winning formula? “I don’t think there are too many changes, only a couple of holes are longer and the rough is a lIttle bit thicker,” was his honest assumption.
 
 “Some of the changes here has actually made it easier when it comes to decision making. For instance, at the 15th, this year, we won’t be able to aim for the green. At the 17th, lengthening means you can’t aim to hit your ball to the other side of the fairway,” was Shiv’s take.
 
 But the talk inevitably veers to   Sharma - current No. 1 on the Asian and European Tours, world No. 66, a two-time winner this season. “There are so many kids out here that have the talent and potential,” said Anirban. “To see someone actually break through and just run away with his confidence and his game, like Shubhankar has, I think it’s a great thing for Indian golf.”
 
 And if you think jetlag has affected the 21-year-old who landed in the country on Tuesday after travelling all the way from Mexico, think again. “I’m not tired from playing golf or flying. In fact, I’m quite tired with all the off-field commitments, but that’s part of being a professional. There was a lot more pressure last week at the WGC, this is playing at home,” Shubhankar noted.
 
 
 Toughest competitor? “The course.” The rest will agree.
 
