MUMBAI: The  ,  , launched its   at   on Friday. It also introduced a  , often referred to as the ‘lal dabba’ with aerodynamic design. The fare will continue to be Rs 6 a ticket for a 6-km distance-.TOI was the first to report that the AC sleeper bus was to be introduced on Saturday.

 The AC sleeper will have a capacity of 30 passengers (sleeping cabins) and it will have facilities that exist in Shiv Shahi buses which are a part of MSRTC’s fleet. The buses will have better suspension, Wi-Fi, GPS, two CCTV surveillance cameras and an SOS button for passengers. While the bus routes are still to be finalised, officials said that they will ply to destinations that require overnight travel.
 
 The launch was held to commemorate the birth anniversary of late founder of Shiv Sena, Bal Thackeray, on Tuesday. The MSRTC plans to launch 100 such AC sleepers in the first phase, by the end of this year. The plan is to introduce a total of 500 AC sleeper buses across the state in a few years. Most of these buses will also ply to destinations in other states — Goa, Bengaluru, and Udaipur besides other places, officials said.
 
 State transport minister Diwakar Roate said that the MSRTC will also introduce non-AC sleeper buses. These buses will be introduced as ‘Raat Rani’ buses which will ply across the state.
 
 The revamped ST bus will be named ‘Lal Pari’. “The first look is impressive,” said Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray at the launch event. “You get a feeling that it is a private luxury bus and I am sure this will be a hit with commuters.”
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who inaugurated the two new buses with Thackeray, said that the common man needs a “comfortable” ride. “The Lal Pari will be a dream come true for the common man who will get a bus with good interiors, design and luxury at an affordable rate. It is a big gift by MSRTC to commuters,” he said.
 
 He added that 15 new bus ports will come up soon in the state. A bus port refers to a multi-modal hub where state buses, local buses and Metro trains converge. One such bus port is proposed to come up in Panvel while another is likely to come up in Pune.
 
 Fadnavis said that a proposal by transport minister Diwakar Raote to introduce a mini-theatre to screen Marathi films at bus depots was a good one. “At bus stations, people have to wait, sometimes for 2 to 3 hours. They can spend time watching a Marathi film,” he said.
 
