MUMBAI:   on Friday raised a stink over the withdrawal of   given to  , unless they follow certain rules. 

 At the civic standing committee meeting, Bandra corporator Asif Zakaria said that in January 2017, the   issued a circular to review the exemption in property tax granted to several English schools with a 13-point questionnaire. “In Bandra, various aided schools were issued the circular and necessary replies were submitted. Despite this, their exemption was rejected...this threatens the existence of the schools,” he said.   corporator Rais Shaikh supported Zakaria. “Most of these schools have huge land and asking them to pay property tax as per the regular rate can be difficult for them,” he said.
 
 
  
 An official from the civic assessment and collector department confirmed that the circular had been issued. He added that there were certain criteria that these schools were expected to fulfill, including ensuring 10% of students were from sections below the poverty line and 10%from economically weaker sections. “We are only reviewing whether they are following the criteria. While exemption would continue for vernacular medium schools, in case of English medium schools only those who fulfil the criteria would get the property tax exemption, ” said the official.
 
 Schools said they had replied to the BMC’s circular, but were not heard. Father Frazer Mascarenhas, manager of St Stanislaus High School in Bandra, said, “While we still do not know the new rates we will be charged, we will face a hit on our finances. This action is worrisome for aided institutions as it indicates removal of government support for education for the lower middle-class. Unaided institutions can increase fees to cover the cost, but aided schools cannot.”
 
 Father Francis Swamy, principal of St Mary’s High (ICSE) School in Mazgaon, said: “We had received a notice from the BMC asking us to give them reasons why they should not terminate our property tax exemption. We told them that we are a charitable institution and engage in many outreach programmes for the poor. However, we received a letter that our application was incomplete, and therefore our exemption has been cancelled. We have not yet received any legal tax bill, but we have taken legal advice as to whether the BMC has the right to take such action. We should have had a hearing before such decision was taken.”
 
 
