AHMEDABAD : In the wake of growing demand from overseas countries, ceramic tile makers in Morbi expect 30% to 40% growth in exports this fiscal and are targeting exports worth Rs 10,000 crore by the end March 2018.

 According to industry players, exports of ceramic products’from Morbi, India’s largest cluster of ceramic tile makers, have already reached Rs 8,500 crore so far this financial year crossing Rs 6,200 crore exports achieved for the whole year of 2016-17.
 
 With a couple of months to go for the current fiscal, exports are expected to touch Rs 10,000 crore mark, say industry players in Morbi ceramic cluster, which has seen rapid capacity addition in vitrified tile manufacturing in last two years. Morbi also houses many wall and floor tiles units.
 
 “Although the production capacity has increased in last two years, it will not have any adverse impact on ceramic tile industry and the profitability of tile makers, as export market is very upbeat and our exports are growing at the rate of 30%-40%,” said  , president,  .
 
 “Going by the thumb rule of demand-supply, any increase in demand leads to establishment of new units by entrepreneurs. We have the finest quality raw material in the world. We see a bright future for our industries in coming years,” he said.
 
 Ceramic tile makers also received several export orders during 4-day Vibrant Ceramic Expo held at   in November.
 
 Morbi ceramic industry exports its products to 150 countries and has also made inroads into ceramic producing countries such as Spain, Italy, Mexico, Brazil and Turkey. Recently, some of the players in Morbi have also bagged orders for exports to China, which is considered to be an arch rival of Indian ceramic industry in the international market.
 
 “We have grabbed a share in the export market to China with quality products based on new technologies,” Kundaria said.
 
 In addition to this, the domestic market has also improved. “The demand from rural and suburban areas is very good. The domestic market for tiles is growing at 15%-20%. The government’s push for ‘Housing for All’ also augurs well for the ceramic industry,” Kundariya added.
 
 
