NEW DELHI: Coming down heavily on the  , a   on Thursday discharged   MLA Amanatullah Khan in an alleged case of kidnapping and obstructing public officials from rescuing child labourers. 

 “The time taken by Delhi Police to investigate this case proved to be fatal to the case of prosecution. The investigation has been done in a belated, lethargic and lackadaisical manner over a prolonged period of time,” additional chief metropolitan magistrate Samar Vishal observed. 
 
 In 2010, teams were constituted to rescue child labourers from zari units in the city. While the rescue operation was being carried out, it was alleged that Khan and his accomplice obstructed the operation.
 
 The complaint was based on a note of the labour officer Om Prakash. According to the complaint, a child labourers’ rescue was planned on October 28, 2010, on the basis of a survey carried out by   Bachpan Bachao Andolan. 
 
 The teams reached Jamia Nagar and Batla House and rescued 15 children who worked as labourers. The children were put in the NGO’s vehicle, but Khan and his associates reportedly stood in front of vehicle and took out its keys. An altercation ensued between the alleged accused and officials of labour department. Khan reportedly screamed that the rescue team was snatching away the livelihood of the children. 
 
 Initially, an FIR was registered under Section 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions). But to take cognisance of the offence under Section 186, a complaint of the public servant is mandatory under law.
 
 Khan and his aide were also chargesheeted under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 506 (criminal intimidation). 
 
 The court pointed out that the chargesheet was filed five years after the offence, against the limitation period of three years. When it came to dealing with Section 363 (kidnapping), the court said the prosecution had never claimed that the accused had taken or enticed these children from their lawful guardians. 
 
 “Their employers or the rescue team cannot be said to be the guardian of these children. These children were already with their employers and if any offence of kidnapping is to be attributed, then it has to be on their employers,” observed the court.
 
 
