VADODARA: Cricketer   has been suspended by the   ( ) for a doping violation. The allrounder will not be able to play in any official match till Jan 14. The cricket board took the action after a urine sample of the 35-year-old Pathan showed traces of the substance terbutaline, which is in the World Anti Doping Agency (WADA) prohibited list.

 “Mr Yusuf Pathan has been suspended for a doping violation. Mr Pathan had inadvertently ingested a prohibited substance, which can be commonly found in cough syrups,” the BCCI said in a statement on Tuesday. Pathan had provided the sample as part of the BCCI’s anti-doping testing programme during a domestic T20 match between his team Baroda and Tamil Nadu on March 16 last year.
 
 “His sample was subsequently tested and found to contain terbutaline. Terbutaline, a specified substance, is prohibited both in and out of competition in the WADA prohibited list of substances,” the BCCI stated.
 
 “Mr Pathan responded to the charge… asserting that it was caused by his ingestion of a medication containing terbutaline that had been mistakenly given to him instead of the medication prescribed for him, which did not contain any prohibited substance,” the BCCI explained.
 
 The BCCI said it was “satisfied” with Pathan’s explanation that the medication was to “treat an Upper Respiratory Tract Infection (URTI) and not as a performance-enhancing drug”.
 
 “Having considered all of the evidence and taken expert external advice, the BCCI has accepted Mr Pathan’s explanation… and on that basis has agreed that a period of ineligibility of five months should apply, together with the disqualification of certain results,” the BCCI stated.
 
 BCCI cited delays in the results management and back-dated the start of a five-month suspension period to August 15 last year. He was earlier suspended on October 28, 2017. The back-dating of suspension will now ensure that his   prospects will not be affected.
 
 Pathan issued a statement on Twitter on Tuesday wherein he confirmed the ban and said that he has been cleared of intentional doping. “Competing for India and my home state Baroda has been a matter of immense pride and encouragement for me and I would never act in any manner to bring my motherland or Baroda in any kind of disrepute. In hindsight, I should have been more careful and checked the status of the medications with BCCI’s dedicated Anti-Doping Helpline,”
 
 Interestingly, Pathan was informed about his dope test failure in October last year but the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) had no idea about his suspension. “Yusuf called up some days ago and said that he won’t be able to participate in the T20 Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy this season as BCCI has asked him to not play till mid-January. We haven’t received any communication about Yusuf’s suspension from the BCCI,” said Snehal Parikh, BCA secretary (in-charge).
 
 Pathan had played two Ranji matches this season before opting out citing ill-health.
 
