Shillong: No one can ignore his prolificacy. After emerging as the top-scorer in his first   season with  , Aser Dipanda   is still in the running to bag that award this season, too, albeit with  . But the Cameroonian striker feels indebted to Lajong for giving him a break in the country’s top-tier competition and his love for his former club was evident when he spent time chatting and catching up with the Lajong players and staff after a gruelling practice session here on Friday. In an interview with the TOI, the 28-year-old spoke about his goal of winning the I-League, his experience in India and the friends he has made during his stay. Excerpts:

 What is the difference in playing for a youthful club like Shillong Lajong and that of playing for a giant like Mohun Bagan?
 
 Mohun Bagan are a big team with a long history. I joined them because I want to improve in my career and win the I-League with Bagan. But it’s my first season in Kolkata and with a team like Bagan, I had to adapt very fast to their philosophy and style.
 
 Do you think you can still win the I-League?
 
 Yes, I think so. We still have seven games to play and we need to win all of them for the title. We have the mentality to win those.
 
 You scored 12 goals in the Calcutta Football League for Mohammedan Sporting this season. Do you think it helped you in preparing for I-League?
 
 Playing CFL has been very helpful. I needed to do well to be back in the I-League. I was the top-scorer and it made me ready for the I-League. I also got some players to join Bagan with me. 
 
 Bagan have scored 16 goals and conceded just eight. They have the best goal difference with leaders Minerva. What do you think still went wrong for you?
 
 Injuries, I think. Sony (Norde) had to leave, Yuta (Kinowaki) also got injured. But now Yuta is back. Akram Moghrabi is there. So now I think we can get our campaign back on track. And although I am the top-scorer so far, I don’t concentrate on being that. I concentrate on doing whatever is needed for the team to help it win the I-League.
 
 How does it feel to be coming back to Shillong?
 
 I am very excited about that. I know a lot of people here, lot of friends. Lajong helped me change my life by giving me the chance to play in the I-League. And I will always be grateful to them for that.
 
 You waved Yuta’s jersey after scoring in the first leg against Lajong. Can you describe why you did that?
 
 I don’t have my family here and Yuta has been my best friend. We were flatmates in Shillong. When he got injured in the match before that, I felt like crying. I visited him at the hospital. And then when I scored in the next match, I spoke to the Bagan staff, took his jersey and waved it around. It was a celebration for him.
 
 You’ve scored some beautiful goals this season, including two in the last Kolkata derby. Of the seven goals, which is your personal favourite?
 
 Well, I like all my goals. But the second goal against East Bengal from the volley is my most favourite goal of my career.
 
 Bagan Footballer Thankful That Shillong Club Gave Him I-League Break
 
 
