NEW DELHI: A day after   virtually ruled out repaying the Rs 11,300 crore he owes to Punjab National Bank, his counsel Vijay Aggarwal cocked a snook at the government and said the cases filed by the CBI and the ED against his client would "collapse" like those related to the 2G scam,   and Aarushi.

 
 "They (  and investigating agencies) are just making noise. There is nothing that proves Nirav Modi is guilty," Aggarwal said, arguing that his client was not guilty of "any wrongdoing". He also said that the diamond trader, who now features on the country's most-wanted list, had not fled. Nirav was out as he had to run his "global operations", contended Aggarwal, who had defended many of the accused in the 2G case, said.
 
  
  
 
 Asserting that PNB could not "claim ignorance" about the payments remitted abroad on the basis of Letters of Undertaking (LoUs) and Foreign Letters of Credit (FLCs) 
  from its Brady House branch in Mumbai, Aggarwal said, "Other banks (branches of Indian banks abroad) didn't pay the suppliers (of Nirav Modi) but to the Nostro account of PNB, and the PNB itself paid the suppliers, it cannot claim ignorance.
 
 "It's a branch headed by an assistant general manager rank officer. Shetty had a chief manager and AGM above him. The bank collected crores of rupees in bank charges on the buyers' credit facility (extended to three Nirav firms)," Aggarwal told TOI over phone from Dubai. Bechhu Tiwari, who was chief manager and in charge of the forex department of the bank, 
  about Shetty's activities.
 
  
  
 
 Asked if his client planned to return, Aggarwal, who is in Dubai to prepare Nirav's defence along with other lawyers, refused to comment.
 
 Aggarwal's comments came after 
  saying that the bank had exaggerated the outstanding on his companies and by going public, it had shut the door on his ability to clear the dues.
 
  
  
 
 "The erroneously cited liability resulted in a media frenzy which led to immediate search and seizure of operations, and which in turn resulted in   and Firestar Diamond International effectively ceasing to be going concerns. This, thereby, jeopardised our ability to discharge the dues of the group to the banks," Nirav, who left the country along with his family in the first week of January, wrote to the PNB management on February 15.
 
 
 
 
