PANAJI: The tourism stakeholders appear disappointed over the marginal increase in the budget allocation to the industry especially with mining industry facing a bleak future.

  Some pointed out that tourism industry of Goa is yet to get its due even as it has been major contributor’s of Goa’s economy, and its growing.
 
 
  
  
 
 Former travel and Tourism association of Goa ( ) president,   said, “the 9.8% hike in fund allocation is very meager. The government didn’t consider huge growth in the tourism revenue. The sector has been given step motherly treatment.” 
 
 A hotelier said he wasn’t aware of the break-up of funds allotted but wants tourism ministry to spend its money whatever allotted, judiciously. “There has to be some amount of discipline in the department’s spending,” he adds.
 
 TTAG President   said the government ought to have allotted more funds as it creates more job opportunities than other sectors. It is also imporrant that it use whatever funds allotted more judiciously. 
 
 Ralph de Souza, chairman,   group, said the industry is growing no doubt, it is now imperative that theyconduct audit of tourist footfalls. “The audit is required to find out which foreign locales are yielding results. Spending on non-yielding ones has to be stopped,” said de Souza.
 
 Another stakeholder, said though industry has been demanding for years an audit, tourism department has simply not paid any hid. “I wonder, why they are not doing it.,” he said.
 
 Braganca said the allocation for tourism should take into account growth in the tourism revenue and its future potential. “The tourism industry expected a much higher allocation of funds more in view of virtual collapse of the mining industry. Today, tourism is the mainstay of Goa’s economy, and the government ought to have recognized this position.”
 
 “The government will have to be excused for its failure to recognize importance of the tourism industry since health of our chief minister did not permit him to devote much time for the preparation of the budget,” said Braganca.
 
 
