Rajkot: The BJP-ruled Veraval-Patan municipality has given its green signal to declare the 3 km area around the famous Shiva temple as a ‘pure vegetarian zone’.  The right-wing groups in the temple town have embarked on an aggressive campaign demanding a ban on sale of non-veg food in the town. And, the civic body also now feels that non-veg food in the area near the temple “tarnishes” the town’s reputation. The move is expected to hit the daily bread and butter of nearly 100 people directly and around 400 indirectly, a vast majority of them being Muslims. Large number of posters have been pasted at all prominent places in the town demanding the ban on non-veg food. Somnath Seva Sangh, one of the Hindu organizations leading from front in this campaign, has demanded the municipality resolution should be implemented immediately. Somnath temple falls under the jurisdiction of Veraval-Patan municipality.  “Somnath is the first jyotirling and pilgrims from across the world come here. It’s possible that seeing the sale of non-vegetarian food, their feelings may get hurt. This (non-veg food) also tarnishes the image of this area. Considering all this, we have taken the demand of certain organizations into consideration and putting the temple in the centre, we resolve to prohibit selling, distribution, production and conservation of non-veg food according to the provision of Gujarat Municipality Act-1963 in the periphery of Saint Mary School to Kajli Market Yard area.” The 3 km area encompasses parts of coastal highway, where seafood sold in some star-rated hotels are a big draw for tourists, especially for those from outside Gujarat. President of Veraval-Patan municipality Jagdish Fofandi said, “We understand that it’s not easy to declare Somnath as veg zone because 70% economy of this town runs on fishing. Several communities living near the temple are habituated to non-veg food. This is a sensitive issue and that’s why even though it’s a question of religious feelings, we will take consent of all the communities before executing the resolution. We will organize a meeting with all the community leaders and stakeholders based before taking any further decision. Whoever are selling non-veg food in prescribed area can be shifted to other area and we can make an arrangement for them.”  The ball is now in the court of district administration. Collector, Gir-Somnath district, Ajay Prakash told TOI: “Ultimate decision lies with collector office, but opinion of the government will also have to be taken. We will now ask the municipality to submit a rehabilitation or resettlement plan for people who would be affected (due to the ban). They have to give us the number of how people who would have to shift their shops and a feasible alternative place for relocation. We have to consult traders association also. In this matter, opinion of district superintendent of police (DSP) is also required to see whether the law and order situation is affected. Only after this, any decision can be taken.” Somnath Seva Sangh has once again represented to Prime minister Narendra Modi, governor Dr O P Kohli, chief minister Vijay Rupani and a host of other BJP leaders to execute this ban. 