BENGALURU: Multilingual actor Sruthi Hariharan’s comments about casting couch, where aspiring actresses are offered movie roles in return for sexual favours, spoke out strongly about the worst-kept secret of the south Indian film industry, including Sandalwood.

 She became the talking point on social media after her appeal to young girls to say ‘No’ to the casting couch went viral on Friday. Sruthi, winner of the Best Actress honour in the Karnataka State Film Awards 2016, spoke about the dark side of the industry at a panel discussion in Hyderabad recently and followed it up with a Facebook post in which she said she, too, was a victim.
 
 “I know many women like me who have been victims of the casting couch. I also know women who have stood up against it and said NO. I believe that’s what is important. To take a stand and say NO... Even if it means you are going to lose that opportunity — it is okay as long as you don’t lose your integrity,” she wrote on Facebook.
 
 Her statement has shaken the   film industry into some action. While many artistes lament the ugly practice, one section maintains the industry is not exploitative.
 
 
 
 
 Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce (KFCC) secretary MN Suresh said the industry body will resolve the issue if any casting couch victim approaches it.
 
 “It’s unfortunate an upcoming actress of calibre is coming up with a complaint about an incident which she claims took place 10 years ago,” Suresh said, adding: “We’re committed to professionalism in the film industry and respect women colleagues. The chamber is always there to hear their woes.”
 
 Recounting what she had gone through, Sruthi said: “I had a casting couch experience when I was 18 and on my first Kannada film. Four years after that, a leading producer in Tamil cinema bought the rights to my Kannada film and offered me the same role in Tamil remake. He said, and I quote verbatim, ‘We are five producers and we will exchange you however we want’. I retorted that I carry a slipper with me in my hand.”
 
 Veteran filmmaker and   chairman S V   said the casting-couch phenomenon is because of the influx of those from other sectors into the film industry. “The Kannada industry is professional. But the menace persists because people with money are coming in and they have no value for the art or artistes,” he said.
 
 Barring a few instances where actress have got into verbal duels with heroes and directors for personal reasons, there has been no major muck dug up on the issue in Kannada film industry so far. “Everyone knows about the casting couch, but none comes out into the open as they fear repercussions,” a heroine-turned-politician said.
 
 “An actress or any person for that matter must have a professional approach; it’ll solve half the problem,” said K A Suresh, film producer, who faced a complaint from   and the case was resolved amicably.
 
 Added  , an actress, “The casting couch is not a new issue; it’s been there for years. Dealing with the problem is left to the individual and it all depends on how one handles the situation. It’s a wrong perception that you need to compromise to be successful in the film industry.”
 
