RAJKOT: Several villages in the Little   look haunted places these days. It’s hard to find a human soul for miles together as nearly 4,500 out of the total 6,000 families engaged in salt farming have migrated from here in the last three years. 

 High production cost and fast depleting groundwater levels have forced these saltpan workers, known as agariyas, to move out. Many have even quit their traditional profession. As a result, the salt production in this area has decreased from 40 lakh metric tonne per year to just 15 lakh metric tonne.
 
 Salt workers make pans in the Little Rann, which is spread in nearly 5,000 sq km in five zones – Kharaghoda, Jinjavada, Santalpur, Nimaknagar and Halvad-Tikkar. A saltpan is usually 150 feet wide and 500 feet long. Salt workers dig a borewell and fill the pan with ground water, which is salty, through electric motors. However, the groundwater level in the desert is decreasing and after a certain depth, there is no chance of getting water. 
 
 Bachu Dedama, whose family was engaged in salt production for generations in Halvad-Tikkar zone, said, “We had no option but to quit our age-old profession as making salt has become an extremely costly affair. Earlier, we used to engage one motor to fetch groundwater, but now we have to engage three motors for the same quantity of water, which has increased the costs. We need to fill a pan fully to produce the salt. Also, earlier we had to dig one borewell, now we have to dig three borewells. Though production cost has spiralled, we don’t get enough price from salt manufacturer.” 
 
 Transporting salt from this desert area is also expensive and the situation has only worsened in the last three years.
 
 General secretary of Janta Salt Cooperative Society in Kharghoda Babulal Bathani said, “Before three years, 151 saltpans were registered in my society. Today, I have just 25. It’s very difficult to fetch water from 60-feet-deep in the ground. Moreover, salt manufacturer used to pay Rs 36,000 per quintal, which is now gone down to Rs 22,000. The high production cost and reduced price have forced these salt workers to migrate from the Little Rann.
 
 Some families have taken up agriculture labour jobs in Surendrannagar and Rajkot districts and some have migrated to   to produce salt at the seashore.
 
 Ambubhai Patel, who is engaged with a salt cooperative society, said, “Nearly 4,500 families have migrated from Little Rann. Earlier, there were villages of saltpan workers, now all these hamlets are completely deserted.” 
 
 Patel said that mixing of Narmada water due to breaches in the canal have also cost saltpans workers dear. Salt manufacturers hold government responsible for the miserable condition of salt workers. 
 
 A salt manufacturer in Kharaghoda Hingor Rabari said, “The edible salt produced here is of the best quality. But salt workers are unorganized and government doesn’t pay attention to their problems. Before assembly elections, government promised to give solar panel to run the motors, but now in a meeting in   government said they don’t have budget for this.”
 
 
