BHOPAL: City residents are demanding government intervention to protect erstwhile symbol of power of Bhopal State’s –  . After a meeting with Bhopal divisional commissioner Ajatshatru Shrivastava, the administration now seeks the more than century old heritage structure to be declared a protected heritage, by state department of archelogy.

 
 Located in Koh-e-Fiza, the palace ‘Al-Misbah’ was built by last Nawab Begum of Bhopal Sultan Jahan (ruler from 1819 to 1926). For history aficionados, it is the birth place of ‘Tiger’  , whose mother   was accepted by Union of India as heir to the last ruler of Bhopal.
 
 In the recent past, the palace grounds and adjoining property have been slated for commercial development. In the backdrop of construction activity and threat to the palace, more than a dozen citizens met Shrivastava earlier this week.
 
 “The royal family may have turned a blind eye to city’s glorious heritage. We cannot sit and let a royal palace tumble,” said a concerned citizen, seeking anonymity. A letter from divisional commissioner to department to archaeology, archives and museums commissioner request consideration for protection of
 
 the heritage palace under MP Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains (Amendment) Act, 1964. The letter also cites that applicants have alleged illegal mining activity in the area that can damage the heritage structure.
 
 Private developer Mohammed   who is carrying out development in the neighbouring area assured that the work would not harm the palace. “Construction activity is taking place 150 feet away from it,” said Atiq, reiterating that requisite approvals for the development have been taken.
 
 The location is a part of Qaser-e-Sultani, where royalty lived. After the acceptance of Sajida Sultan as heir, the property continued to be residence for her sister Rabia Sultan. The equations of power and ownership have changed since Rabia’s only son prince   died in Bhopal in December 2014. It was followed by return of his son and main claimant to the palace   to Bhopal in October 2017.
 
