CHENNAI: The   police have arrested a key suspect in the   heist case, who was on the run for the last six months, from a hideout at his native village in Pali district. The arrested man,  , was also involved in the encounter with a police team from the city in Rajasthan last December in which Maduravoyal police inspector S   was killed. 

 A police officer from Pali district confirmed the arrest of Deepu Ram who has been detained at the central prison there. A police team from Chennai will soon travel to Rajasthan to formally apprehend Deepu Ram in connection with the   case and bring him to Chennai for questioning.
 
 Rajasthan police said they are yet to receive the ballistic report which would confirm the cause of inspector Periyapandian’s death in the midnight operation seeking to nab members of the gang at an abandoned brick kiln in Pali on December 13. During the encounter, Periyapandian was killed when his colleague T M Munisekar’s pistol accidentally went off. Inspector Munisekar was later transferred from the Chennai city police to Nagapattinam district.
 
 Soon after the heist at the jewellery shop in Kolathur on November 16 last year, a city police team visited Rajasthan and apprehended several men including Nathuram Jat’s father Chennaram and relatives Ellaram, Shankar Lal and Dauram. Police remanded the four and let off a few others who were not involved in the heist. 
 
 Subsequently, a Rajasthan police team zeroed in on Tejaram Jat, Nathuram’s wife Rani, Dinesh Kumar alias Dinesh Chowdary and four others who were involved in the attack on the police team led by Periyapandian and Munisekar at Pali. The Jaitaran police arrested them in Nagaur district in Rajasthan. The Rajasthan police later arrested the prime suspect  , another man called Nathuram Jat, Chotaram Jat and Babu Lal. 
 
 Nathuram Jat and Dinesh Kumar had taken a shop located right above the jewellery store in Kolathur on rent and drilled a hole on the floor before sneaking inside when the owner and staff left for lunch. The duo along with Deepu Ram escaped with the valuables to Rajasthan, with the heist coming to light when the staff returned in the evening. Police registered a case based on the complaint of Mukesh Kumar Gautham Chand, 37, a resident of Kolathur.
 
 
