NEW DELHI: Police on Tuesday arrested a 22-year-old  , along with her two male accomplices, for committing a series of snatchings in east and northeast Delhi. 

 The main accused,   Begum, is a resident of   near   in east Delhi. The other two, Shehbaz and Danish, are also in their twenties and were only recently released from jail. Razia’s modified Passion X bike, which the three used to commit the crimes, has also been seized. 
 
 Joint commissioner (eastern range)   confirmed the arrests. The gang was busted after they targeted a couple on a scooter on Tuesday evening, DCP (Shahdara) Nupur Prasad said. The gang spotted the couple near   and began to trail them after noticing that the woman was carrying a bag. 
 
 As always, Razia drove the bike and the other two rode pillion. They were not wearing helmets, police said, probably to ensure a quick getaway. As Danish tried to grab the woman’s purse and mobile phone, she held on firmly. The duo then tried to scare her even as Razia kept their bike parallel to the scooter. While the woman let go of her mobile, she clung on to the bag. 
 
  
  
 The two men kicked at her several times, as a result of which the couple’s scooter lost balance. The woman fell on the road and suffered injuries. Fearing that a crowd would soon gather, the assailants tried to speed away. However, they were in for more trouble, as the woman’s husband quickly got up and went after them. Meanwhile, the police control room also received a call about “three men” fleeing on a bike.
 
 Panicking, Razia took a wrong turn towards Mansarovar Park. Unfortunately, for her and her two friends, she drove right towards a police picket — the cops stationed there had already been put on alert. 
 
 The two men got off the bike and tried to escape, but were nabbed. Meanwhile, some locals attacked Razia — who was still on her bike — mistaking her for a man. 
 
 However, they soon realised that it was a woman when she screamed and her monkey cap came off in the melee. The cops quickly intervened and managed to take her inside the police station where she was questioned by two policewomen. 
 
 While Razia didn’t have a police record, as she had managed to evade arrest so far, Danish and Shehbaz were caught earlier too — they had been involved in three cases of snatching and robbery.
 
 
