BENGALURU: After many months of turbulence,   chairman Nandan   said the company has demonstrated resilience. In a letter to shareholders on how the company’s new strategic road map will unfold, Nilekani said, “The resilience of the company has shone through and we are now in a very safe and stable place. The strategy refresh we undertook in the last six months has clearly outlined the way forward for us,” he wrote in the company’s 2018 annual report.

 
 Infosys was caught in a bruising battle between the board and the founders that led to the distraction in executing the strategy. Under its new CEO  , a three-year transformation journey has been laid out to bring the company up to speed.
 
 Recently, Parekh set four pillars of strategy — boosting the digital business, focusing on artificial intelligence and automation in client interaction, increasing localisation, and reskilling of employees.
 
 Nilekani believes the company has a strong executive leadership team in place to inspire and steer the company towards its goals. “With Salil Parekh leading the way as our new CEO and MD, we are all set to grow the strengths that have always differentiated us — our values, our customer orientation, our brand, our commitment to learning that drives continuous improvement, and our focus on partnering with all our stakeholders in a way that is unique to us,” Nilekani wrote.
 
 Infosys has projected a modest growth outlook for the current fiscal and lowered operating margin for this fiscal at 22-24%. The company had ended last fiscal with a margin well above 24%. It has hitherto been a margin leader in the industry. But several analysts have in recent times advised the company to move away from a high margin strategy to be able to invest in the new digital spaces.
 
 Parekh’s commentary in the annual report captures the tectonic shifts in the technology industry and how the company is geared up to handle those. “Today, our clients — large enterprises and government organisations — are at different points in their digital journey. We are positioning our capabilities to help them navigate their next, across the different dimensions of this journey,” wrote Parekh in his annual report.
 
 Nilekani said, “We are ready to boldly promise our clients: Navigate your next with Infosys. After all, we’ve done this, lived this, for over three decades, and what will unfold next is limited only by our imagination, our focus on customers, the execution of our strategy, and our shared ambition to remake our world and the way we live and work in it.”
 
