As a college student, M Ganesh used to take part in social activities. A trip to a nearby village along with 18 friends changed his life, and the group decided to make doing something for society their motto in life. Into the third year of his engineering course in 2009, Ganesh and his friends formed an NGO and named it Helping Hearts; they volunteered for activities such as blood donation, tree planting and cleaning drives and visited orphanages across the city. Since then, they have set up a volunteer and well-wisher network of 200 people, two hospices and a senior citizen home.

 Ganesh, who is now 29, said the fact that there were very few charitable homes for senior citizens always bothered him. "While there were several children’s homes in the city, very few catered to old people. At that time, we did not have financial resources. So, we took part only in activities as volunteers. As we were students we could work only on weekends. We got into jobs in 2011 and that is when we decided to start a children’s home at Kovai Pudur. In 2013, we started a senior citizen’s home," he said.
 
 The journey was not easy, as the youngster aspired to provide living homes and not shelters to these inmates. "Government guidelines often clashed with what we wanted to give these people. So, we closed down the children’s home and set up two new hospices," he said.
 
 Ganesh works in a IT company in Chennai and comes down to the city every weekend to take care of these. Three of his friends, Sakthivel, Suresh and Satish, take care of two hospices - in Coimbatore and Pollachi - and a senior citizen’s home in Coimbatore. Recently, they took up maintenance of a corporation reserve site and converted it into a park.
 
 "We have a group of 200 well-wishers who are part of a social media group. Each of them donates Rs500-1,000 every month. All of us put in a part of our salary into the NGO. We use these funds to maintain these. At present, we have 17 employees, including nurses, working for us. We also provide food, snacks, milk and other amenities to them," said Ganesh.
 
 A day at the hospice and old age home will not feel like a shelter, but a home. The elders celebrate festivals together, go on outings and even have fights just like in any family. "Our idea is to ensure the final years of their lives are happy as they deserve to be happy. Just because they have lived their youth, it doesn’t mean they should be ignored in old age," he said.
 
 Coimbatore corporation has provided space for these hospices and they have tied up with other NGOs and government hospitals to get people over. At Ukkadam, 20 terminally ill patients stay and at KNG Pudur, 32 elderly people stay. In the Pollaachi hospice, 11 terminally ill patients are treated. Ganesh needs at least Rs3 lakh every month, as roughly Rs6000 is required to meet the needs of one elderly person.
 
 The only problem Ganesh faces is legal hassles. "We need to ensure that the family members are informed about abandoned old people and we have the legal aspects covered," he said.
 
 
