Coimbatore: The district has achieved a rare feat by bagging the Union government’s Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar-2018 under both the village panchayat and panchayat union categories.

 The ministry of panchayat raj selected Vellimalaipattinam village panchayat and Annaimalai panchayat union here in recognition of the good work done for improving delivery of services and public goods. Factors such as sanitation, civic services (drinking water, streetlight, infrastructure), natural resource management, marginalized section (women, SC/ST, disabled, senior citizen), social sector performance, disaster management, innovation in revenue generation and e-Governance were the criteria for the awards.
 
 Additional director of village panchayats Padmavathi received the awards at a function held in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh on April 24, the Panchayat Raj Day.
 
 Vellimalaipattinam, which has 916 households and a population of 4,066, has been consistently achieving cent per cent on-time tax collection for the last 20 years, panchayat secretary N Marappan told TOI. “We had recently set up three water bodies to harvest rain water. In order to increase revenue, we have been growing medicinal plants, including kalyana murungai (Erythrina variegata) and sarakondrai (Cassia fistula) on two acres. Workers under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) have been employed at the farm. We will start producing medicines within three to four years once the plants attain maturity and are planning to set up a medical centre to provide medicines at a low cost,” he said.
 
 While the rest of Tamil Nadu was in the grips of mosquito-borne diseases, not even a single case of dengue was reported from Vellimalaipattinam, said Marappan. “A special team was set up to prevent stagnation of water, ensure supply of chlorinated drinking water and to conduct regular inspections in search of mosquito larvae at households,” he explained.
 
 Civic workers collect waste from all households daily and segregate it into biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste, VP Rasu, a resident of Vellimalaipattinam, said. “A lot of things have changed for better in the recent times,” he said.
 
 Annaimalai union panchayat has not just scored on block-level activities, but also on the developmental activities carried out in all the 19 village panchayats that falls under the union, an official said. “The union increased its source of revenue and worked tediously to limit open defecation and to improve civic works,” he said.
 
 Six village panchayats, two panchayat unions and a district panchayat from Tamil Nadu have bagged the award.
 
 
