Language has never been a barrier for actor  , who has acted in Hindi,  , Telugu and Tamil  , in addition to an international film. In fact, the actor says that working in different languages teaches you a lot. Sonu, who was in Bengaluru recently for an event, talks about his love for the city, his cheat-day meals and perfecting the human flag.

 
 
 I feel really happy to be back in my favourite city. I love the city, the climate and the people here. I did one film in Kannada, titled Only Vishnuvardhana, which was a huge success and I completed another one recently called Kurukshetra, in which I play the character of Arjun. I totally believe that whatever I’ve done in Bengaluru — the films and the roles — have been very special.
 
 
 
 I play Arjun in the film. I remember as a kid, whenever I used to see and read about Kurukshetra, I was always fascinated by this character called Arjun, who was best in everything. When I got the offer to do this role, I had a packed schedule. But then I thought I have to be Arjun; he’s my dream hero. Finally, when I played it, it was a dream come true and I thoroughly enjoyed it.
 
 
 
 I never thought that I would work in the South Indian film industry. But it turned out to be a lucky start for me. My first film was in Tamil, then in Telugu, Kannada, Marathi, English and Chinese. And most of these films were successful. Someone recently told me that I had done 90 films, so I asked ‘Are you sure?’. And when I checked my filmography, there were almost 92 films that I had done and I still feel that it’s the beginning and there are miles to go.
 
 
 
 Whenever you do films in different languages, you tend to learn a lot. You work with different directors and learn a lot, you explore and I believe that as an actor I am a good student; a back bencher, maybe, just waiting for my role to come in and whenever it does, I just say present sir.
 
 
 In the South, it is very disciplined. We used to start early morning for those sunrise shots, sometimes at 7 am and would have our first shot.   is a little bit more relaxed. You can wake up, finish your gym routine and then go for your shoot. But lately, I’ve seen a lot of south Indian technicians working in Bollywood. Both platforms are the same. We have Bollywood actors coming to the South and South Indian actors going to Bollywood. It’s a great time for both the industries that they’re working on the same page.
 
 
 
 Recently, I was supposed to do a Malayalam film, which is a language I hadn’t explored. And I thought I should do it, but there was a huge clash with the dates and I couldn’t do it unfortunately.
 
 
 
 I think in today’s time when everyone is so fit, it’s not only about the people who are in front of the camera but people behind the camera are also equally fit. You see directors working out in the gym. You get to see the fitness level of the audiences as well. I feel it’s not just the actors who have to look good and fit, but for every individual it is very important to stay fit and look good, which is the good part as actors inspire people to work hard.
 
 
 
 Being a Punjabi, I love makke di roti and sarson da saag. My cheat days are always when I visit Punjab. It’s been a tradition since my engineering days. Whenever I used to be home, my family would make makke di roti and sarson da saag and my mother was very particular about it. That tradition still continues and it’s the only time I cheat with my meal. Otherwise during shoots, we have to be very careful, and I believe that one cheat meal shows on camera.
 
 
