HYDERABAD: Wading through the flooded streets after a heavy spell of rain will be a thing of the past for denizens of  , if Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( ) takes up a project to widen storm water drains from   colony to the railway twin box culvert before the monsoons in this year.

 The proposal is now awaiting a formal nod at the coming general body meeting of the GHMC after it was passed at the standing committee meeting on Thursday.
 
 Chenna  , executive engineer of GHMC told TOI that the corporation will kick off works after the project is given a green signal at the general body meeting to be held a few months later.
 
 However, civic authorities mooted the project, after a heavy spell of rain in September and October last year inundated the areas situated between NMDC colony,   Nagar and railway twin box culvert.
 
 The GHMC engineers who drafted the proposal for the standing committee meeting, said that the colonies in Malkajgiri Circle, including Ananth Saraswathi Nagar, NMDC colony, Shiridi Nagar, CIFIL colony, Durga Nagar and Chandrababu Naidu colony of East Anandbagh were submerged last year due to the overflow of a nala at Banda Cheruvu, after a heavy deluge.
 
 The engineers also pointed out that the width of the nala was not uniform in length, and at some places the width of the nala is less than two meter, which is inadequate to discharge the accumulation of water after heavy downpour. “We have already informed the authorities concerned that widening work is required to avoid such massive waterlogging in the area again,” said the engineers.
 
 Meanwhile, removal of bottlenecks at NMDC colony has been sanctioned for Rs 100 lakh, according to GHMC sources. “The local residents are hindering the construction of retaining walls on either sides of the drain from Banda Cheruvu and downstream. They have requested us to construct a box drain that can be used as road surface,” added the engineers.
 
 The total cost of building the box drain by widening the storm water drain comes to an amount between Rs 900-1,850 lakh from NMDC colony to Shirdi Sai nagar, and a another Rs 950 lakh required to extend the work till the railway twin box culvert.
 
