KOCHI: In many places, the KWA’s distribution network dates to 40 years and above, and it is extremely difficult to trace many of their underground pipelines. The difficulty in tracing underground pipes and identifying the exact locations of leak causes delay in maintenance. Water pipeline bursts have increased in recent times leading to water shortage, accidents and traffic snarls in cities.

  KWA’s transmission loss per day is estimated to be around 120 crore litres of water, and the state suffers a loss of Rs 262 crore per year. The increase in non-revenue water in the urban water supply system is a growing challenge considering the scarceness of the resource.
 
  The leakages in underground pipes in the houses of individual customers go unnoticed. They are identified only when the consumer receives huge water bills, which is disproportionate to the usage of water. The leakages between connection point in the distribution main and the meter point of consumer also go unnoticed for long periods as it does not affect the consumer immediately. Most of the time, such leakages will be identified only after experiencing acute water shortage.
 
  Officials with the water authority said the faulty distribution system has resulted in huge losses to the  . A proposal to prepare a threedimensional geographical information system (GIS)-aided map of pipeline network was readied but the project did not take off.
 
  “Currently, no such activities are taking place. The 3D-GIS map was expected to provide a comprehensive picture of the transmission and distribution network as well as the numerous leaks in the system. It was expected to help in plugging the leaks which created huge loss,” said a KWA superintending engineer.
 
  With the aim of improving water supply on a 24X7 basis the water authority is drafting a proposal to relay old pipelines. KWA will also have to be vigilant against widespread water theft and illegal siphoning from main pipelines.
 
  In Kochi city alone, a project estimated to cost Rs 1,500 crore will have to be implemented. “We are trying to secure loans for implementing the scheme,” said the engineer. According to officials, even if the authority can bring down the transmission loss to 20% in the city, it would be an achievement.
 
