NEW DELHI: The   ( ) is miffed with its star woman grappler  . And it is over an off-the-mat issue – her attitude.

 
 
 WFI intends to hold the women’s national camp for the forthcoming   at the   centre in Lucknow from May 10 to June 25. However, Vinesh landed in Lucknow on May 1 for training without informing either the federation or the SAI centre officials.
 
 Vinesh, who won gold in the 50kg category at the Gold Coast CWG, was accompanied by her personal physio, trainer and masseur, sponsored by her supporter Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ).
 
 Caught unawares, the centre officials contacted WFI officials in Delhi to know what was happening. The federation was equally clueless since there was no camp running and new dates for the camp were yet to be announced.
 
 Vinesh, officials said, was adamant that she wanted to begin practice and looked in no mood to return back to her village in Sonepat. Given Vinesh’s stature, both WFI and SAI Lucknow relented and allowed her to stay at the centre to train with her personal coaching staff.
 
 However, this left the federation officials complaining about Vinesh’s overbearing personality. “This is not done... why was she allowed to train privately at a place earmarked for the camp, that too, when other national campers were not there? If Vinesh was so concerned about her Asian Games training, she could have trained at any of the OGQ’s private facilities and joined the camp on May 10. She didn’t even notify the federation,” said a senior WFI official.
 
 An official at the SAI Lucknow centre confirmed the development and informed that Vinesh has indeed been accommodated despite reservations.
 
 TOI contacted Vinesh who acknowledged that she didn’t find it necessary to obtain the federation’s permission before landing in Lucknow. The 23-yearold added that if the WFI has such an issue, she (read OGQ) was ready to pay for her 10-day stay.
 
 “I’ll make the payment… where’s the problem. I don’t feel the need to tell the federation. Look, a lot of felicitation programmes were happening after my CWG triumph, so my practice was getting hampered. I thought it prudent to come to Lucknow and train. The Asiad trials will happen here at the end of this month, so I have to prepare,” Vinesh said.
 
 
