CHANDIGARH: Nearly 40 parents and scores of students of Bhavan Vidyalaya School, Sector 27, protested outside the CBSE’s regional office in Panchkula’s Sector 5 on Monday over less-than-expected scores in the Class XII ‘English Core’ subject.

 The students and parents submitted a memorandum to an official of the education board, demanding that the papers of 140 affected students of the school be rechecked and revaluated. The   discontinued revaluation this year. 
 
 Naveen Gupta, whose daughter was expecting 95 marks in the subject, but scored 75, said it was strange that students who were expecting 90-95 marks in English Core, had scored as low as 70, 75 or 83. “My daughter has been a topper throughout. This is a case of human error. We want the marks to be counted once again,” he said. 
 
 In all, 250 students of Bhavan Vidyalaya sat for Class XII exams this year. Another parent, Harsh Kejriwal, said this had never happened in the school. “How can the entire school do poorly in a subject? If a student is getting 90 or 95 in one subject, how can the same student be scoring 70 in English? The aggregate dips considerably,” he said. 
 
 Of the 120 commerce students of the scool, 35 have scored above 80 in the subject, while the average score of the remaining is around 75. Of the entire Class XII batch, 40 students scored above 90. “I attempted all questions and was expecting more than 95 marks. But I have scored only 64; this is impossible,” said  , a student. 
 
 The dip in English marks, said students, had severely affected their overall aggregate and chances of getting admission in good colleges. 
 
 Three years ago, the marks of students who had cried foul over their board exam scores got a 20-25% bump in their marks after revaluation, the parents said. 
 
 CBSE section officer Anil Kumar Thakur had earlier asked students and parents to apply online for ‘re-totalling’ of papers, after they submitted a letter with signatures through the principal Vineeta Arora. 
 
 Khanderao refused to comment, saying he was not authorised to speak on the matter. “Whatever will happen, will happen from Delhi. Children are angry and disappointed today, but they will cool down a few days later,” he said. 
 
 Students and parents sat on a “dharna” at the CBSE office as they were not satisfied with Khandera’s reply to their demand for swift action into the matter.
 
 
