HYDERABAD: The National Eligibility cum Entrance Test ( ) for undergraduate medical courses will be held on May 6, said the admission notification issued by   on Friday.

 In a major shift this year, students from Telangana and   will be able to participate in the all India quota. This means that 15 per cent MBBS and BDS seats available in government medical and dental colleges in the two Telugu states will be available for students from other states. Similarly, candidates from the two Telugu states will now be able to avail seats under the all India quota.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Industry experts are positive about the reform in the admission quota this year. “Earlier, Telugu students were restricted from seeking admissions in the national pool until last year. However, this year, it is a positive move as students will get a chance to seek admission in other states as well,” said B Srinivas Rao, dean of Narayana Institutes.
 
 At present, there are 1,100 MBBS seats in government colleges of which 165 seats will be available in the national pool.
 
 With new medical colleges in Telangana receiving the green-signal from the   (MCI), the 2018-19 academic year will have fresh 150 MBBS seats added to the state’s kitty. The number is likely to be increase as the   in Siddipet is awaiting approval from MCI.
 
 Soon after the notification was issued, the online registration for the examination began. The submission of online applications will conclude on March 9 at 11.50pm. The last date for successful payment of online fee is March 10 till 11.50pm. The CBSE declared two exam centers for NEET 2018 – Hyderabad and Warangal.
 
 This year, CBSE has made Aadhaar number mandatory for Indian citizens from all states, except Assam, Jammu and Kashmir and Meghalaya.
 
 “This will also help in ascertaining identities of applicants at examination centres in a hassle-free manner. Aadhaar obviates the need for producing multiple documents to prove one’s identity,” reads a public notice issued by CBSE.
 
