NEW DELHI: A farmer was brutally murdered in a village in Sasaram, Bihar, in October 1973, his body was cut into two by rich and influential assailants and 45 years later, the judicial process culminated in the Supreme Court on Monday with life sentence to one person.

 A Sasaram trial court took 15 years to find five persons guilty of murdering farmer  . He was done to death by influential members of the village for not heeding their threat that he would be killed if he deposed against them in two theft cases lodged against them by the railway police. The trial court sentenced all of them to life imprisonment in 1988.
 
 The convicts appealed against the trial court order in Patna high court, which took 22 years to uphold the trial court’s decision. The appeals were filed in the Supreme Court in November 2010 and notices were issued on March 18, 2011. But for some strange reason, the appeals could not be taken up for hearing for seven years.
 
 The task was finally entrusted to a bench of Justices Ranjan Gogoi and M Shantanagoudar, which heard counsel for the accused and the state government on March 22 this year and gave its verdict on Monday. It upheld the conviction of one Kameshwar Singh and sentenced him to life imprisonment, but gave the four others benefit of doubt and acquitted them.
 
 Writing the judgment for the bench, Justice Shantanagoudar said, “This is another case of brutal murder of a person with a view to prohibit such person from deposing before a court in a case against his assailants. This is a case wherein the body of the person was cut into two pieces and thrown at different places to destroy evidence.”
 
 Though the SC found discrepancies in the statements of eye-witnesses, it said the crux of the evidence emerging from their statements were impeccable. “One hardly comes across a witness whose evidence does not contain a grain of untruth or at any rate exaggeration, embroideries or embellishments. It is the duty of the court to scrutinise the evidence carefully and, in terms of felicitous metaphor, separate the grain from the chaff,” the bench said. 
 
