MADURAI: Madurai is gearing up for a mega political family event likely to be attended by chief minister Eddapadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. Cooperation minister   is holding the ear boring ceremony of his two grandsons at   and the city has been decorated with gigantic posters for the ceremony. Thanks to the VVIP visits, including that of the governor who is expected to be in town for his ‘inspection’, the city is getting spruced up. 

 Posters of Sellur Raju’s family, including those displaying the affection between his wife and mother, and also grandchildren have been put up at many points of the city, including the   connecting Madurai airport. ``It is said that there will be a grand feast for about one lakh people, with many goats being slaughtered in Pandikoil,’’ said an   functionary.
 
 Meanwhile, residents say that most of the banners erected along the route to Pandikoil do not adhere to the rules of the   Urban Local Bodies (Permission for Erection of Digital Banners and Placards) Rules of 2011. The rules say permission has to be obtained from a competent authority — the collector, commissioner or police — to put up banners. The permission holder should also ensure that banners or placards display in a font size not less than one inch height the permission number, period of validity and total number of digital banners for which the permission had been given. This was missing on the banners of the minister’s function.
 
 With both the chief minister and deputy chief minister having given the consent to participate in the minister’s family function, arrangements are being made to spruce up the city. As during the CM’s previous visit, many streets in Madurai which had been in a state of neglect till Friday morning are being patchworked using man power and machines. The workers said that they had been asked to work round-the-clock to ensure that the roads were ready by Saturday afternoon. ``Usually, we are informed much in advance but today we were told in the morning to start work in the afternoon,’’ said a worker.
 
 AIADMK sources said that elaborate arrangements were being made to ensure that both the chief minister and deputy chief minister were welcomed by two different groups and that they would have to ensure that both of them were well-attended till the end of the function.
 
 
