Na: Former district government pleader (DGP) Prashant  , who conducted the latest probe into   allegedly submitting bogus mark sheets, has made strong observations against him in the report submitted to Nagpur University. The advocate has termed him as a “habitual offender” who “also defrauded the judiciary”.

 “Mishra not only defrauded NU, but also the legal system. He also committed perjury of trial court by submitting bogus documents to NU, originals of which are in court records. NU should lodge criminal proceedings against him,” Sathianathan said in his report submitted on April 20.
 
 The report recommended a probe into ‘diploma in travel and tourism’ of summer 1996, which was also surrendered by   along with his LLB mark sheets. Along with him, one Pradip Motiram Rathod also surrendered his MA Sociology degree, who, according to vice chancellor SP Kane, was a “dummy candidate” brought in to support Mishra.
 
 Kane said Mishra appeared in LLB first year exam in 1995 but failed in ‘Law of Torts’ subject, where he scored just 23/100 marks. He applied for revaluation, where his paper was first checked by justice   (then lecturer at Dr Ambedkar College), and then by a lawyer named Paraskar. While first evaluator gave him nine marks, second awarded 36. The mean of both comes out to 23 (22.5) marks (9+36/2), and therefore NU officials made “no change” in his marks.
 
 “Mishra, however, colluded with Yadav Kohchade and other NU officials, and fraudulently made changes in the marks awarded by both evaluators. Instead of nine marks awarded by Naik, he made it ‘69’, while for Paraskar, he changed it to ‘65’ instead of 36. As the mean of both evaluators came out to 67 (69+65/2), he was declared passed in the paper,” the VC said.
 
 Subsequently, Mishra took admission into LLB second year, but failed to clear some papers. Availing facility of allow to keep term (ATKT), he took admission into LLB third year, but again failed to clear the subjects till winter 1998 exams.
 
 Incidentally, the infamous Kohchade scam came to light in 1999, and all records were seized by the police, who then submitted it to the special court constituted to hear the cases. The police also came across Mishra’s name among over 100 beneficiary students.
 
 The charge sheet was filed by Sitabuldi cops against Mishra and others on December 12, 1999, and it took over seven years for his case to reach a conclusion on June 10, 2007, when he was convicted.
 
 “In the meanwhile, he must have got a whiff of impending trouble, and in a last-ditch attempt to save himself, he moved NU to surrender his LLB mark sheets on November 11, 2006, just three months before the conviction. He mentioned flimsy reasons such as change from annual to semester pattern and ‘baseless allegations against him’ by then senator Balraj Aher for his move, but didn’t specify details,” NU officials told TOI.
 
 
