CHENNAI : In a major infrastructure boost to the high traffic Chennai – Salem sector, the Centre and the   government have proposed a new Rs 10,000 crore Green Express Corridor to connect the two cities. The new corridor, planned via Harur and Thiruvannamalai, will reduce both the distance and travel time, as against the existing two routes - one via Ulundurpet and Athur and another via Vellore and  .

 “The proposed new route will be an   and will connect the important temple town of Thiruvannamalai. This will not only reduce the distance by about 60 km, from the present 360 km, but also the travel time from the present 6 hours to 3 hours. This will be the first such project to be undertaken in Tamil Nadu, on the lines of the Mumbai –  ,” Union Minister for Road Transport, Highways and Shipping, Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Nitin Gadkari told reporters late on Sunday evening.
 
 The minister had earlier chaired a review meeting with the Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K   in the city. The meeting was also attended by Union Minister for State for Finance and Shipping,  , besides Tamil Nadu minister for Forests, Dindigul C Sreenivasan and Revenue minister, R B Udhayakumar as well as officials of the state and the central governments.
 
 “Besides the Salem – Chennai project, the Chennai – Bengaluru Express Corridor is also being speeded up. Once land acquisition is completed, we will call for tenders to award the projects. In all, six green corridor and ring road projects have been reviewed and given priority and these will be undertaken at an estimated cost of Rs 43,000 crore,” Gadkari said. These include Karur – Coimbatore, Melur – Thanjavur, Madurai – Dhanushkodi and Mahabalipuram – Puducherry.
 
 On the water resources and river water sharing, Gadkari said the Centre is working on setting up the   as per the Supreme Court directive and also ensuring the interests of both Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are safeguarded.
 
 “Today, I have discussed with the Union Minister on the need to establish the Cauvery Water Management Board, as per the Supreme Court order, and to urge the prime minister to help establish the board within the Supreme Court stipulated time limit,” Tamil Nadu chief minister, Palaniswami said. “As for the plans for new major ports, we will ensure that the fears of fishermen are allayed and these projects, set to boost the state’s infrastructure and industrial needs, are implemented,” Tamil Nadu chief minister, Palaniswami said.
 
 
