It is Lord Krishna’s face that every Malayali sees as the first sight on the Vishu day. Considered a symbol of prosperity, Krishna’s idol is placed with the Vishukani in every house along with ingredient that one wishes to be bestowed with in the year ahead. It’s also believed that Lord Krishna killed the demon Narakasura on Vishu day.

 From the adored ‘unnikannan’ to the guiding figure in Mahabharatha, Krishna is arguably the most worshipped and loved avatars of Vishnu. Little surprise then that his different facets have been brought alive on screen by many actors including   in the serial Mahabharat, Akash Aravind in Nandanam and most recently Tovino Thomas in Aami.
 
 This Vishu, the different actors who have essayed the role of Krishna talk about their experience and memories of playing the mischievous, romantic, shrewd, sathwik, guiding and brave deity.
 
 
 
 
 
 It is Lord Krishna’s face that every Malayali sees as the first sight on the Vishu day. Considered a symbol of prosperity, Krishna’s idol is placed with the Vishukani in every house along with every ingredient that one wishes to be bestowed with in the new year. It’s also believed that Lord Krishna killed the demon Narakasura on Vishu day.
 
 From the adored ‘unnikannan’ to the guiding figure in Mahabharatha, Krishna is arguably the most worshipped and loved avatars of Vishnu. Little surprise then that his different facets have been brought alive on screen by many actors including Nitish Bharadwaj in the serial Mahabharat, Akash Aravind in Nandanam and most recently Tovino Thomas in Aami.
 This Vishu, the different actors who have essayed the role of Krishna talk about their experience and memories of playing the mischievous, romantic, shrewd, sathwik, guiding and brave deity.
  
  
 “Krishna teaches us how to deal with difficulties of life and attain peace for mankind, right here in the material world and not by escaping to the Himalayas. He gives guidance to face life and I love him for being my elder brother, guide and philosopher,” he says.
 
 For Nitish, playing the character gave him overnight stardom and an immense amount of love and respect from Indians across the globe. “Surprisingly, this adulation continues even today,” says Nitish, who has directed the Marathi movie 
  and is currently preparing for his Bollywood directorial debut.
 
 
 He also has countless memories about the ‘devotion’ of fans. The most memorable one came from his mother. “After the portrayal of Lord Krishna, my mother, who had taken up an ascetic life after dad’s demise, said that whenever she prays to Lord Krishna, my face appeared in her mind. Those were the most precious words for me,” says Nitish, who is also part of Sara Ali Khan’s Kedarnath.
 
 
 After 30 years, when Nitish looks back, he says he finds the Krishna in the serial exactly as deity should be. “The credit of conceiving the character goes to B R Chopra and the dialogues of director Rahi Masoom Raza. They gave a specific shape to Krishna in the serial which was the foundation I built on,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 Mollywood hunk Tovino Thomas recently gave a new face to Lord Krishna in Kamal’s 
 , the biopic of writer Madhavikutty. He portrayed the romantic side of Lord Krishna that every girl fantasises — from Radha and Meera to Madhavikutty. 
 
 On taking up the role, Tovino says, “Krishna’s portrayal was different in Aami from the way it was typically shown in serials or previous films. My role was conceived as a common man and that concept attracted me.”
 
 He says he went with the director’s vision to play the character. “Lord Krishna is not a usual role that anyone can do. So, I was very careful as I knew that even a small variation in the characterisation can make the role a mockery. I didn’t want the audience saying ‘ayye’ after watching me in the role,” he says. Tovino though received interesting feedback. “Some said that my face comes to their minds when they think of Krishna. However, my friends used to call and mock me asking, ‘Eda, odakuzhal undo? Neela colouril aano varane?’” he laughs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It was Aravind Aakash who shed the divine image of Lord Krishna in the minds of Malayalis, back in 2000 through Ranjith’s 
 . With the guy-next-door attire, he made Guruvayoorappan, a friend and a mentor for young women. For the elderly women, he became the adorable son they desired.
 
 However, Aravind, as humble as ever, says, “You should ask Krishna why he gave me this role.” The movie marked his debut in Malayalam. 
 
 “Thanks to Revathy ma’am who suggested my name. I had played Krishna in plays during school days and also used to dress up as him during Krishnashtami. But I never thought I would play him on the big screen. It is a blessing,” he says.
 On his experience playing the role, he says, “I never had Krishna in my mind while playing Guruvayoorappan’s avatar Unnikrishnan. I was just myself and followed the director’s instructions,” he says.
 
 Aravind, however, is even now visualised as Guruvayoorappan by many. “After the film’s release, when I went to Guruvayoor, everybody used to give me way, while the rest had to wait in a long queue. Once a mother and child touched my feet, I was flabbergasted. Another time, while I was in a railway station, a man asked a shopper how far is Guruvayoor. Pointing at me, he replied why go to Guruvayoor when Guruvayoorappan is here. The guy came running,” he says, adding that he is just another human and not Krishna.
 
 “For me, Krishna is Nitish Bharadwaj. It was surprising for me when I saw people coming to me and treating me like Guruvayoorappan,” he says. 
 
 Though a Punjabi, Aravind is aware of the connection between Vishu and Krishna. “Vishukani and sadya are my favourite part of the festival. I am lucky to be the face of kani,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The ‘timeless’ actor of Malayalam television industry, Sarath Das’ role as   in the serial 
 , had created waves among the female audience as many started “worshiping him”. “There were times when people used to insist that I give them prasadam at temples. I was lucky enough to be their Lord Krishna. Some used to share their miseries with me. Even now, several people tell me, ‘Dear, you are still Krishna to us’. Am I not lucky and blessed?” Sarath asks.
 
 The actor explains that playing Lord Krishna on screen was huge responsibility. “It is a role which ace actors like Nitish Bharadwaj had etched in our minds. Hence, the challenge was double,” he recollects.
 
 The serial had 600 episodes and Sarath did a lot of homework to portray Krishna. “From childhood, I was familiar with the Bhagavatha Sapthaham performed by my father and uncles so I had a great knowledge about the nature of Lord Krishna and the bhakthi bhava he has towards his devotees,” he says. Sarath’s association with yoga too helped him play the divine character, he says. “Krishna is a great yogi. Above all, I always tried to maintain the sathwik bhava and ensured to deliver the role very well — even the movement of eyebrows and the ‘I know it all’ smile that Krishna always wears,” he says. 
 While he says every scene he played as Lord Krishna is dear to him, his favourite is the “episode where Krishna goes as the messenger to the palace of Duryodhana prior to the Mahabharat war”.
 
