SHIMLA: The budget session of   Assembly will start from March 6 and conclude on April 5. There will be 17 sittings and chief minister  , who also holds the finance portfolio, will present his maiden budget on March 9. Fireworks are expected during the session, considering parliamentary elections are due next year.

 As the   government has decided to withdraw the cases registered against Himachal Pradesh Cricket Association during the previous Congress regime on the ground that these were the result of vendetta politics, the Congress is likely to corner the government during the session. Former chief minister Virbhadra Singh has already made his intentions clear on the issue by stating that such hasty decisions taken under some pressure need to be avoided. He said that the decision needed to be reconsidered before any action was taken in such public interest cases.
 
 The Congress has also launched “hisaab de saansad, jawab de saansad” campaign from Thursday to corner BJP MPs. The issues of shifting SDO office from Janjheli in Mandi district and creating a new subdivision at Thunag in Mandi district are also likely to storm the budget proceedings, considering people in Janjheli are up in arms against the chief minister. Interestingly, both Janjheli and Thunag are part of Seraj assembly constituency represented by Jai Ram.
 
 As BJP’s chief spokesperson Randheer Sharma has announced that the state government will ensure a probe into the charge-sheet prepared by the BJP against the previous Congress regime, both Congress and ruling BJP legislators can lock horns on the issue. The supplementary budget for 2017-18 will be presented on March 6 while budget estimates for 2018-19 will be presented on March 9. During the session discussion on the budget, demand and voting will also take place and the appropriation bill will be passed. There will be a recess from March 17 to 25. 
 
 The HP vidhan sabha secretary,  , said two days had been earmarked for private members’ business. Besides this, the House will also deliberate on important legislative business during the session.
 
 
