NEW DELHI:   into the international  , involving a  , is now   on about a dozen   and   from   market in Delhi, say sources. 

 Details of these businessmen have been found in the seized cellphones of arrested forex smuggler  . Sources said many of these businessmen deal in foreign goods, including gold and diamonds from Hong Kong and China. 
 
 Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, which is probing the case, is going to submit their details to the income tax department as well. According to sources, these businessmen were sending cash to Malhotra’s conduit through Devshi Kulshrestha not just for investment in shell companies and tax havens but also for making cash payments for imported goods received in India. 
 
 “For example, traders often get goods worth Rs 2 crore billed at Rs 1 crore so that they have to pay less taxes and import duty. The rest of the money is paid in cash via hawala. We suspect Malhotra was the facilitator of these payments for a commission,” a source said. 
 
 Malhotra’s father apparently had a shop in Bhagirath Palace. After his death, Malhotra was looking after the shop. Then he came in contact with a few businessmen who laundered money. Interested in this exchange, Malhotra went deeper and learnt the tricks of the trade. He then shut shop and opened a travel agency as a front for money laundering. 
 
 Police said he often flew down to Hong Kong himself to deliver the money wrapped in foil. But after watching a Hollywood movie, Blow, he got the idea to rope in an air hostess. Malhotra has confessed that he had approached other flight attendants as well, but police have not yet confirmed if anybody else was also involved.
 
 Police are now following the money that was laundered through the duo. 
 
 DRI investigators said Kulshrestha’s husband was questioned and let off for now due to lack of evidence. The fact that he tipped off the police after getting a call from Malhotra has worked in his favour. 
 
 On Thursday, Malhotra and Kulshrestha would be produced in court as their judicial remand gets over. The two are likely to file for bail, which DRI is likely to oppose as investigation is at a crucial stage.
 
 
