In the latest episode of  , the anniversary celebrations continue. Raj and Rano dance and then Rishi calls Tanuja to the dance floor. Abhishek and Tanuja also share a dance while Rishi looks on. Abhishek signals Rishi and says he will soon take Tanuja away. This makes Rishi very angry and he ends up pushing AK on the ground.

 Tanuja takes Rishi upstairs to discuss the matter. Downstairs, Raj asks everybody to continue with the celebrations. Netra laughs seeing all the drama unfold at the party.
 
 When Tanuja asks Rishi why did he hit Abhishek, he orders her to never speak to Abhishek again. Tanuja gets shocked and says that Abhishek has been her friend and a pillar of support. She says there was nothing wrong in their relationship. He tries to convince her that Abhishek was plotting against her but Tanuja pays no heed.
 
 Rishi feels upset and says Tanuja cannot sacrifice the one thing he asks her for. Tanuja cries and says she had sacrificed her whole life for him but he still doesn't care. Seeing them fight, Abhishek smiles and says his plan was working just the way he wanted to.
 
 Tanuja comes downstairs and attends to AK's injuries. He says everything was fine and asks her not to worry. Myrah comes and says it was a silly fight between Rishi and Abhishek so they shouldn't worry much.
 
 Manpreet goes and talks to Rishi and says he must not be so aggressive and teach AK the lesson in his own way. Manpreet says AK is very smart and won't back down. Tanuja hears them and gets shocked. Rishi walks away on seeing her.
 
 As Abhishek leaves the Bedi house, Tanuja comes and asks him about his injury. He says he was doing better and apologizes for misbehaving. Tanuja tells him not to say sorry.
 
 Ahana comes and consoles Tanuja, who feels upset. She says Rishi still doubts her relation with AK in spite of everything. Tanuja wonders if she could ever live without AK. Ahana advises her to have an open discussion with Rishi so that their problems are resolved.
 
 Rishi, who is not at home, thinks of a way to expose AK. He gets a call from Tanuja who apologizes and asks him to come home so that they could talk. Rishi asks if she had decided to fulfill his wish but, much to his dismay, Tanuja doesn't answer him
 
