

 Nearly five centuries ago, the lush green peaceful   of   in Bicholim taluka became an abode to numerous temples that were shifted from Bardez taluka during the 16th century inquisition.
 
 The temples included Vetal Panchayatan from Nachinola, Cansekar Devasthan from Cansa, Girkar Devasthan from Guirim, Nagvekar Devasthan from Nagoa, Kelmbika Parrikar Devasthan from Parra and Sharvani Vetal Devasthan from Saligao.
 
 Advalpal is blessed with springs and nullahs. It boasts of cultivated agricultural fields, horticulture gardens and kulagars (plantations).
 
 Vilas Naik of Nachnolkarwada says that Advalpal was known as Advalpale before 1961. “The etymology of the word is derived from the numerous bunds or embankments created many centuries ago to store water for the irrigation of various type of agricultural fields,” he said.
 
 The numerous temples in the village are its cultural repositories. “Temples including Sateri Shantadurga Temple at Gaonkarwada, Sateri Shantadurga Temple at Kotwaigon and Sharvani Temple at Salgaonkarwada provide spiritual nourishment to our village,” says Amey Khanolkar of Murdawada.
 
 Despite the village providing spiritual solace to its residents through its numerous temples, villagers are unhappy that the mines, operated by two companies on the hilltop, have devastated agricultural fields and water bodies especially in the regions of Gaonkarwada, Nachnolkarwada and Kolambwada.
 
 “Selfish and directionless mining has resulted in dust and silt flowing into our fields and killing agriculture which was an age-old occupation of our forefathers. Mining has even depleted the water bodies. The water in our streams was clean. We used to swim in it. Now, the water body is dead,” says Gajanan R Palkar, a villager, whose statement was echoed by other residents in the village, including Prasad Salgaonkar, Suresh Gaonkar and Dhasrath Velguskar.
 
 Bordered by Pirna, Assonora and Tivim villages in Bardez taluka and Latambarcem in Bicholim taluka, Advalpal houses 1,800 residents and has five panchayat wards. Advalpal’s traditional village wards are Gaonkarwada, Salgaonkarwada, Dhangarwada, Kotwaigon, Harijanwada, Murdiwada, Kolambwada, Advalpal, and Nachnolkarwada. The Advalpal comunidade has 70 members.
 
 The village is located around 27km from Panaji and 59km from Margao, respectively.
 
 Residents’ Speak
 
 Advalpal’s gaunkars and its comunidade have sacrificed a lot in terms of giving away their land to residents of the village. Sad to state that the two mining companies existing since the Portuguese era have made zero contribution towards the welfare and development of the village, including the Advalpal comunidade.
 
 Thomas D’Souza | resident of Gaunkarwada
 
 Shantadurga, the gram devi, is considered to be the owner of the entire village and the head of the comunidade. Advalpal was once an important village that produced rice, but uncontrolled mining has devastated
 
 both its paddy fields and horticulture cultivation.
 
 Vilas Naik | resident of Nachnolkarwada
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 Building a public crematorium and modern playground at Harijanwada is a topmost priority of the village panchayat. Similarly, the construction of a ‘pucca’ road at Dhangarwada and a gymnasium is also on the agenda.
 
 Narayan Salgaonkar
 
 RENOWNED RESIDENTS
 
 Late Narayan Dandekar: Recipient of Goa State Award for ‘Best Teacher’
 
 Alexandrina D’Souza: Phd in marine science from NIO (National Institute of Oceanography). She also taught MSc students at Goa University for a few years
 
 Vilas Naik: Retired policeman after 38 years of service with Goa police. He was a recipient of the CM’s Gold Medal in 2000. He is also a farmer, village chronicler and mahajan (member) of Vetal Panchyatan Devasthan which has temples in Goa, Maharashtra and Karnataka
 
 Anjita Naik: PWD engineer
 
 Thomas D’Souza: Konkani poet. He formerly taught at Shrimati High School, Velguem, Pale-Bicholim He is also a farmer, village chronicler and ex-sarpanch
 
 Gajanan R Palkar: Ex-deputy sarpanch and social worker
 
 Prasad Salgaonkar: Farmer and ex-acting sarpanch
 
 Suresh Gaonkar: Ex-sarpanch and retired teacher
 
 Ashok Naik: Former panchayat member and social worker
 
 Dhasrath Velguskar: Social worker
 
 Late Babu Rao S Khanolkar: Farmer and philanthropist who helped construct the primary and middle school in the village
 
 Ashok S Khanolkar: Farmer
 
 Amey Khanolkar: Agriculturist and software engineer
 
 Heritage Trail/Landmarks
 
 Kulagar 
 
 These farms, numbering around 25 and abounding with natural sources of water, decorate the village with a lush green cover of flora which is depicted with plantations of arecanut, chilly, cardamom, nutmeg, betelleaf, coconut, turmeric, black pepper, white pepper, banana, mango, cashew, breadfruit, etc.
 
 Devachem Udok 
 
 Situated opposite Sateri Shantadurga Temple, its slow, trickling water is available around the year and is used for puja (performing rituals), prayers and washing of clothes.
 
 Sateri Shantadurga Temple 
 
 The principal temple of the village is located at Gaonkarwada. Renovated a few decades ago, the zatra of this centuries-old temple is held in the last week of December or in the first week of January.
 
 Sateri Shantadurga Prassana 
 
 The place of worship dedicated to Goddess Sateri Shantadurga at Kotwaigon wada is frequented by devotees and is famous for its divine miracles. A Satyanarayan puja takes place here in the month of February.
 
 Vetal Panchayatan
 
 Situated at Nachnolkarwada, this place of worship houses a group of temples of Vetal and other deities. Its zatra is held between the last week of November and the first week of December.
 
 Ancestral House of Khanolkars 
 
 Surrounding a Kulagar, this over-115-year-old majestic house is situated at Murdawada.
 
 Government Primary and Middle School 
 
 Built in 1964, this Marathi-medium educational institute at Gaonkarwada caters to 40 pupils from Class I to Class VII.
 
 Margaoili Tolli 
 
 Situated close to Harijanwada, this spring is believed to possess medicinal properties.
 
 Sub-health centre
 
 Situated at Gaonkarwada, this place is open on all working days from 9.30am to 5.30pm. The service of a doctor is available every Tuesday.
 
 Children’s Park 
 
 Constructed in 2007 at Gaonkarwada, it is a recreational spot for village children.
 
 
