CHENNAI: Ever wondered why a majority of the unaccounted cash transported within the state and to neighbouring states during elections remains untraced? Old and condemned government vehicles in  , auctioned to individuals who retain the registration number with the letter ‘G’, are increasingly being used to move such cash as the enforcement authorities let them pass. The seizure of such a vehicle two months ago in Erode during a bid to smuggle timber to   has been discussed in official circles, but precious little is being done to prevent such misuse.

  
  
 
 As per the Tamil Nadu Departmental Motor Vehicles Disposal Rules, 1990, any vehicle owned by a state government department should be disposed of after it completes 10 years or has travelled 2 lakh kilometres (8 lakh km in hilly areas). The TN motor vehicles maintenance department, which functions under the state transport department, is the centralised agency to auction these vehicles. Each year, according to official data, nearly 1,500 such vehicles, 40 % of them cars and jeeps, are auctioned. Of late, the demand for these vehicles has shot up so much that officials say the buyers are ready to pay as much as 30%-60% higher than their base price at auctions.
 
 However, some auction participants say they suspect a cartel, as quite often the same set of bidders manage to win. No official in the police, transport, forest or commercial taxes departments will stop these vehicles, said K  , a consumer rights activist who had filed a complaint with the state home and transport departments in this regard.
 
 
 
 
 According to sources, if an Ambassador car is available for 70,000-1.5 lakh in the open market, it goesfor 2lakh-2.5lakhin these auctions.
 
 Once the vehicle is sold, the ownership is transferred to the buyer, but the vehicle continues to carry the same registration number with the all-important‘G’.
 
 The G series of number plates are reserved only for government-owned vehicles as per an October 2014 Madras highcourtorder.
 
 But, using this loophole, several such vehicles were used to transport money illegally during the 2016 Tamil Nadu assembly election, Kathirmathiyon said in his complaint.
 
 Recently, one such vehicle was caught smuggling wood to Karnataka, he said, adding that most of these vehicles even made use of the exemption provided for government vehicles attoll gates.
 
 There is no mechanism, onlineor offline, at presentfor the enforcement authorities to check the genuineness of claims made by drivers of the vehicles at check posts even if they arestoppedon suspicion.
 
 VAHAN, a portal of the Union road transport ministry can help them, but creating the database and integration work are yet to be completed.
 
 Many central government agencies including those functioning under thedefence ministry re-register auctioned vehicles.
 
 When questioned, a state transport department official admitted that these vehicles were subjected to misuse and that the state government is working on a policy similar to the one follwed by the Centre to rectify theissue.
 
 “Wehavesentthe proposal to the government to change the disposal rules and strike off the vehicle’s registration number after auctioning and providethem with a new number while transferring ownership,” theofficialtoldTOIon a condition of anonymity.
 
 
