CHENNAI: With the admission season for the upcoming academic year wrapping up, parents of schoolgoing children in the city are staring at increased expenses as all institutions have hiked their fees. While   schools have upped their   by almost 30%, the fee fixation committee has allowed a uniform 10% fee hike for private schools affiliated to the state board.

 Those running the schools say implementation of the seventh pay commission has necessitated the hike. “Due to the implementation of the seventh pay commission, some schools have hiked fee by about 25% to 30% this year,” said Ajeeth Prasath Jain, advisor to the Chennai Sahodaya School complex which has over 200 member schools. This would mean that schools which charged around Rs 35,000 last academic year are charging up to Rs 45,000 this year.
 
 
  
 
 Also, the Madras high court had recently directed the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Fee Determination Committee to finalise the fee structure for 4,500 of the 10,000 private schools in the state by April-end for a period of three years. The maximum permissible hike per year would be 10%. While on paper this may appear modest, parents say many institutions are making up for it through various other expenses that are being collected from parents. They are concerned about a lack of a control mechanism to limit these charges.
 
 It has become a norm for most schools to sell books besides charging for library services and extra-curricular activities like cultural events, sports meets, fairs and carnivals. But parents say a section of schools is collecting amounts beyond required limits. The mother of a Class XII student of a higher secondary school in   said she was asked to pay Rs 6,000 for sports day celebrations. “We felt this was too much and when we gave a smaller amount, the teacher asked my daughter to bring at least Rs 5,000,” she said. The student said they were scared to raise the matter internally as one of the staff members had remarked that it would affect their practical marks.
 
 When the school management was contacted, it said no such demands were made. “The school had told the parents that whatever amount they wished to contribute can be given to the school,” said the management.
 
 A parent of student who goes to Doveton School, Vepery showed a receipt in which they were asked to pay Rs 1,000 for absenteeism. Meanwhile, Muthukumar, who child goes to St Michael’s School, said he had to pay more than Rs 8,000 for books at the high school level.
 
 R Visalakshi, president of the Private Schools Association, said the fee fixation committee’s decision to increase fees across the board without taking individual schools’ expenditure and maintenance costs could have contributed to these extra expenses. “This year, the committee looked into individual reports of different schools but still the increase was 10% across the board whether the expenditure was higher or lower. If the fee hike is as per the expenditure, schools too may not overcharge on other expenses beside tuition fee,” she said. 
 
 Education department officials said parents could always approach the fee committee or directors of school education or matriculation inspector. However, some parents admitted that they are scared to take up their case individually as it could affect the child’s academic record. Arumainathan S, president, Federation of TN Students Parents Welfare Association, said there was a lack of strong parent associations at the school level which could tackle such complaints. 
 
 “Whether to deal with issues at the school level or to escalate it to a committee or higher authorities, parents should stand united so that they can fall back on the concept of an association even if a few of them face challenges,” he said.
 
 
