NEW DELHI: A   to mark   of the   has got caught in a knot. It hasn’t taken off due to   in the message that   is  . 

 ‘Woh kehtey hai jab aap sachhai aur imandari ke rastey par chaltey hain toh brahmand ki sari drishya aur adrishya shaktiyan aapki madad karti hai’ is the contentious line spoken by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. It roughly means when you are true and honest, then all visible and invisible forces of the universe make it happen for you. 
 
 Sources said objections were raised by officials before Kejriwal, citing Supreme Court guidelines. The court’s guidelines say every fact in an advertisement has to be endorsed by the department concerned. But this bureaucratic reluctance has miffed the CM. 
 
 On Monday morning, Kejriwal called an urgent meeting of his top bureaucrats at his residence as the ad campaign wasn’t up and running even two days before the anniversary. Sources said chief secretary Anshu Prakash was also present at the meeting. 
 
 When Kejriwal asked for the reason for delay, the line came up for discussion. Sources said that the CM was told that while other parts of the message had been approved by the various departments, they were all confused as to in whose domain that particular line would fall. 
 
 The CM is learnt to have expressed shock at this. “He made the point that the Supreme Court guidelines are there to check the facts and figures, not to block work,” a source said. 
 
 The video message has a caption that sums up the government’s work: “Teen saal hua kamaal; badley school, badley aspataal; badla bijli, paani ka haal.” This harps on the party’s line that the three years of Kejriwal government has done wonders to Delhi by changing schools, hospitals, electricity and water supply. 
 
 The message begins with Kejriwal claiming that in the last three years, corruption has gone down significantly in Delhi. He then goes on to mention the key areas where public money has been spent on development like water, power, school, mohalla clinics, roads and flyovers. He then talks about how a lot of hurdles have sprung up, but the government has fought against them. 
 
 TOI was unable to reach the chief secretary for a reaction. But Jaydev Sarangi, secretary, information and public relations department, said he had no knowledge about the campaign since any advertisement comes to the department only after it’s vetted by other departments. “I am not aware of any meeting at the CM”s office as no one from DIP was called for it,” Sarangi added. 
 
 The government has run ad campaigns on its past two anniversaries too. 
 
 
