CHENNAI: The eviction of residents from Ponuvel Pillai Thottam and MM Colony on the banks of the Cooum began on Thursday amidst charges by locals that they were informed only after the public works department marked the boundaries of the area along the river on Tuesday.

 
 Residents and activists said initially only MM Colony had been slated to be evicted. But on Tuesday, the PWD added areas of PP Garden Street within the marked boundary. As many as 387 families will be relocated. Chaos prevailed as families were made to pack their belongings to go to Perumbakkam Slum Board tenements, located 20km from the city centre. Power was cut in the morning to facilitate eviction following the demolition of existing houses.
 
 “We had been informed two years ago that we would be evicted. After that, there was no communication. We barely had two days to pack our things,” said  , a resident of PP Garden Street.
 
 Komala P of 6th Street said she was unaware that her house would be demolished too. “My house is not along the river. There are many houses that have been recently built by people after taking loans. Everyone is very distressed,” she said.
 
 Officials denied charges that the families had not been informed. “They were informed. Only the token numbering started this week. They had been informed two weeks ago that they would be evicted,” said an official. An activist working with the Information and Resource Centre for Deprived Urban Communities (IRCDUC) said residents were informed only on Tuesday. “There was no proper communication. The entire process is riddled with discrepancies,” said   of IRCDUC.
 
 Meanwhile, the Madras high court on Thursday appointed an advocate commissioner to oversee effective implementation of the rehabilitation scheme proposed by the government for the evicted people in letter and spirit. Appointing advocate   as the commissioner, a vacation bench of   and Justice P D Audikesavalu directed the commissioner to inspect the areas covered under the scheme and submit a detailed report on or before June18.
 
 The court passed the order on a PIL moved by   seeking direction to the authorities to stop evicting residents of areas including Anjukudisai, N S K Nagar, Moovendar Nagar and localities on the east, west, and south of the Cooum.
 
