LUDHIANA: Union food processing industry minister   on Friday requested chief minister Captain   to monitor the progress of the Rs 117 crore mega food park allotted to   (PAIC) as it was not only running behind schedule but even work on the Primary Collection Centres (PPCs) had not been initiated. Holding a review meeting of the project with   officials at Ludhiana on Friday, the union minister said there was no progress as far as initiating work on PPCs was concerned since the last review meeting in December 2017. The PPCs are too come up in Hoshiarpur, Amritsar, Fazilka and Bathinda. She said the slow pace of work had already attracted a penalty during release of second installment of the central grant.

 Speaking on the occasion she said, “PAIC’s inability to start work on the PPCs was a matter of grave concern, ministry would be constrained to levy a further penalty for the delayed period while releasing the third grant. It was revealed that Rs 10 crore grant received from the ministry of food processing was lying unutilized with PAIC. Moreover PAIC has used money received earlier from the food processing ministry to construct roads and establish an effluent treatment plant. Major facilities like processing equipment, cold chain equipment and ripening chambers have not been initiated”
 
 Harsimrat also said, “The mega park was granted final approval by my ministry in November 2015 along with a Rs 50 crore grant and the project was to be completed by this summer but forget completion, it had not even started in earnest. Papers which should have been submitted in October last year had not been submitted till now. Even work needed to avail the third installment from the food processing ministry has not been completed”
 
 The union minister while requesting the chief minister to monitor the project himself, said the infrastructure project had a potential to benefit thousands of farmers and generate huge employment opportunities for youth. “It is very important that it is given the required push so that farmers as well as the farm economy gives the much needed boost in Punjab”, she added.
 
