BENGALURU: A city court is expected to rule on March 2 on the bail petitions of Mohammed   and six fellow accused arrested for allegedly attempting to murder a youth here on February 17. 

 After hearing the arguments from counsel for the accused and the special public prosecutor for over two hours on Tuesday afternoon, Parameshwara Prasanna B, judge of the 63rd City Civil and Sessions Court, reserved the order to March 2.
 
 Haris and six others were arrested for assaulting 24-year-old   L at Farzi Cafe in UB City. They were arrested on February 19 and sent to jail two days later.
 
 Continuing his argument from Monday,   MS Shyam Sundar opposed the bail.
 
 S Balan, advocate for Haris’ six assocaites, argued that bail should be granted as the issue was not as big as made out by the media. “The complaint with Cubbon Park police was made at 11.30pm. But the FIR was registered only at 3.30am and Cubbon Park police are unable to explain the delay. CCTV footages of the attack should be tested at the Forensic Science Laboratory before arriving at any conclusion. The accused are all around 24 or 25 years. It’s not right to project them as offenders,” Balan argued.
 
 He added, “Vidvat was inebriated when the argument broke out and he fell down and sustained injuries. The court should note that Vidvat had sustained fracture in the legs and police haven’t said if there were any other injuries on the body. The FIR says 10-15 men attacked Vidvat. Who were these 10-15? Why aren’t police looking into this aspect?” 
 
 “It is alleged that Vidvat fell unconscious after the incident. But hospital records are silent about it,” Balan said, adding “Bowing to pressure, police added IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder) though it can be invoked only when the attack is planned. In this case, there was no planning.”
 
 Balan pointed out that hospital records say Vidvat was admitted around 12.30am and FIR says Haris and others went to the hospital at 11.30pm. “These inconsistencies should be taken note of,” he said.
 
 Senior counsel Tomy Sebastian, appearing for  , said there were factual discrepancies between police reports and hospital statements. “What the special public prosecutor says here is different from the hospital records,” he said and submitted hospital records.
 
 In his final arguments, the SPP said shifting of the victim to the ward from ICU doesn’t lower the gravity of his condition or the case. “The counter complaint filed against Vidvat is a technique followed by the accused to save themselves. Moreover,   doctors have made it clear there was no alcohol in Vidvat’s blood sample taken on the day of incident”
 
 
 
 
 Doctors at Mallya Hospital said Vidvat has recovered and will be discharged in a day or two. Dr Anand K said the major injuries have healed. “He is on pain killers. Vidvat’s quick response to treatment helped him recovering earlier than anticipated,” he said, adding, “We have told his family that he can be discharged either on Tuesday or Wednesday. They’ll take a call.”
 
 
 
 
 Sources in Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara said   was glued to the TV in his VIP cell for the best part of the day and appeared disturbed over the matter being adjourned. He has been lodged with fellow accused Balakrishna in the cell. A large group of his supporters turned up at the court premises. “We were under the impression that he would walk out on bail today,” Ismail P, a supporter, told mediapersons.
 
 
