BENGALURU: For the past few weeks, political discourse in poll-bound Karnataka has centred on communal violence. However, the focus is expected to shift to the   and   river disputes in the next few weeks, which are likely to emerge as major election issues.

 Political parties are keeping their fingers crossed as the Supreme Court has indicated it would deliver the verdict on the decades-old Cauvery dispute between the riparian states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala in February.
 
 Farmers who have been on the warpath for two years seeking early resolution of the Mahadayi row between Karnataka and Goa have called for a bandh on January 25, ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s concluding rally of the state BJP’s Parivarthana Yatra in February first week. 
 
 “Both Cauvery and Mahadayi have the potential to be election issues. While the Mahadayi controversy is already raging, a lot depends on how the Cauvery verdict plays out. It’s likely to be exploited by all parties to the hilt,” said Sandeep Shastri, political analyst.
 
 Harish Ramaswamy, another analyst, added: “As far as North Karnataka is concerned, Mahadayi is a bigger issue as its significance has been exaggerated by the BJP, with Goa chief minister Manohar Parrikar writing to Yeddyurappa and the former backtracking on it. Both BJP and   have blundered on this issue to gain political mileage and people of the region are aware of it. This may make or mar the political prospects of any party”.
 
 While Siddaramaiah hopes the Mahadayi issue will help him retain power, some party leaders feel Congress’ attempt to project itself as a defender of the causes by backing the agitators may backfire in the case of Cauvery and give JD(S) an advantage.
 
 “More than Congress, it is JD(S) which is capitalizing on these two emotive issues to win the sympathy of Mumbai-Karnataka and Old Mysuru voters,’’ admitted a senior Congress leader. 
 
 Getting into a political slugfest with BJP, Siddaramaiah is expected to feel the heat over the Cauvery verdict ahead of polls. A judgment which is not in Karnataka’s favour would make the political scenario more volatile as the opposition would hope to take on the ruling party saying they have not presented their case effectively in the apex court. Last September, the court’s order directing Karnataka to release water to Tamil Nadu sparked violence across the state, showing how inflammable the issue could be.
 
 
