NEW DELHI: MS Dhoni’s call to bat ahead of an in-form Yuvraj Singh in the 2011 World Cup final was largely based on his experience of playing Muttiah Muralitharan at Chennai Super Kings for four years. That was the first effect of blending cultures in the IPL had on an international stage.

 
 
 
 
 When you scan the Ferozeshah Kotla on Friday evening, you struggle to find little buzz or context in a match between the two teams placed at the bottom of the table. Both   and   scheduled optional practice sessions and none of the big names from either side turned up at the ground. The arithmetic may suggest RCB could still sneak into the playoffs, the cricketing odds are more likely to keep them out of it.
 
 So, you turn to the other facet of IPL. The amalgamation of cricketing cultures and the dividends it could produce.  , in RCB colours, sheepishly declared: “I am not here to spy on Virat Kohli’s weaknesses or to see what his strengths are.”
 
 The talk around India’s tour of England later in the summer has hot up. Kohli’s eagerness to play county cricket has sparked debates in both countries. Kohli, in his defence, has stated that overseas players too come to play IPL to get used to Indian conditions.
 
 Woakes doesn’t mind this ‘exchange programme’ of sorts. “I expect some good challenges playing against him this summer back in England. It’s great that he will be playing in England for Surrey. That will make the county competition stronger. Playing against world class players like Virat is good for the game,” the England allrounder reckoned.
 
 The diplomatic significance of Afghanistan’s inaugural Test against India aside, Kohli’s decision could barely be challenged from an Indian point of view. The results of playing in domestic leagues overseas have always been talked up. Woakes only substantiates Kohli’s argument citing the England team’s emergence in limited-overs cricket. “The fact that we have 12 English players is great for English cricket. The opportunity to play in the IPL makes you a better player — be it playing every game or just experiencing the atmosphere. My white-ball game has gone from strength to strength in the last 18 months. IPL has played a big part in it,” he stated.
 
 While Woakes tried to assure that RCB are out to fight for every little chance to qualify, the English entourage is likely to leave early to prepare for the Test series against Pakistan. With the World Cup a year away, the English core team has had good IPL exposure to strengthen their chances of winning the tournament. It’s over to see Kohli now how he utilizes the two or three county games for Surrey to resurrect his and India’s record in England this summer.
 
 
