KOCHI:   Mary Zacharia, a sixteen-year-old writer based in Kochi is on cloud nine these days as her book titled Moonlight, a collection of English poems and prose, is all set to be released during the Kriti International book festival by noted poet K Satchidanandan on March 4. 

 Sherin was diagnosed with autism at the age of two but that hasn't stopped her from doing what she loves the most - writing poems and stories.
 
 For Sherin, who barely speaks, writing is what gives wings or life to her thoughts, dreams and feelings. She finds computer keyboards more comfortable than pen and pencil and often communicates with her mother by writing on her palm with finger. "That language can only be understood by both of us, it's like a code," said  , mother of Sherin.
 
 Sherin started to read and write at a very young age and is well-versed in Malayalam and English. 
 
 She has already published three books in Malayalam. Later, she started writing poems and stories in English and is now a regular blogger. 
 
 She has won many accolades for her writings including Reuel International Prize for poetry in 2017.
 
 "My mysterious journey with autism is what I love the most about my life. It makes me look like a superhero and stupid at the same time. Our world becomes only richer by the thoughts of autistic people," wrote Sherin when asked about autism.
 
 Sherin is the elder daughter of   and Sangeetha John. It was a painful experience when they came to know that their first-born had autism but they were determined to provide her with better care. This eventually helped Sherin to add a new meaning to her life.
 
 "Though in the beginning it was difficult for her to learn alphabets, words and numbers, eventually she succeeded. At present, she is being home-schooled," said Sangeetha, who found out her daughter's penchant for writing at a young age.
 
 The mom in her believes that there is no point in worrying.
 
  "It will not make any difference. The society should stop being judgemental about kids and their talents. All you should do is to have patience, put in a lot of effort and give these kids some time. They will definitely make you proud," she said.
 
 
