MUMBAI: Until a few years ago, it was common to hear that parents would unplug the television as   were round the corner. While the anxiety among parents remains the same, the problem gadget now is the smartphone, and it isn’t easy to keep it at bay.

  in the city are seeing an increase in number of teenagers preparing for board exams struggling to keep the mobile phone away. “Children are easily distracted by gadgets and with social media, there is an urge to check the phone every now and then. This takes them away from studies,” said Tanuja Babre, coordinator, iCall, helpline of the Tata Institute of Social Sciences. “In January, we had received twice the number of exam anxiety calls as compared to December,” she added. 
  
  
 While the ISC (Class XII) exams are underway, the rest of the board examinations will start in the last week of February and first week of March.
 
 At psychiatrist Dr Harish Shetty’s clinic, about 18 teenagers have voluntarily given up their mobile phones until the end of examinations. “None of the phones have been taken away by force. Parents need to understand...they cannot force children to give up mobile phone, instead must make them understand how the addiction could affect their sleep cycle and hence, memory,” said Dr Shetty. He added that parents should teach by example during this period. “You cannot deprive the child of mobile phone, but continue to use it yourself all the time,” he said.
 
 Counsellors also warn parents of taking extreme measures during exam time. “Children justify the use of cellphones saying they have a lot of study material on them these days. Similarly, they stay in touch with their peers and sometimes, use it to motivate themselves to study better,” said clinical psychologist Seema Hingorrany. “But not all students may use it with good intention. Hence, parents must work out a compromise with the child and restrict the use of the gadget for just a couple of hours each day,” added Hingorrany, who attends attending to around two cases of teenagers with gadget addiction and exam anxiety every day.
 
 Experts said it is also critical that parents know when to seek help. “Children are open to speak to us about a problem. If one doesn’t react in the right manner, the child could rebel. So, it is important that parents seek professional help, if required,” said Hingorrany.
 
 
