RAIPUR: A medical shop owner was booked for   of a minor girl, recording the video and circulating obscene MMS on social media in   district of   division. There were allegations that the accused was a member of   who has recently joined the party and was close aide to a   minister. Considering the political connection, opposition   has cried hoarse over the issue and has constituted a 12-member investigation committee, led by legislator Devti Karma and which would visit the girl and meet her family.

 According to information, the 16-year-old girl hailing from   in Bijapur district was taken to a clinic for some treatment which was illegally owned by one Prakash Mallick who also runs a medical store at the same place.
 
 Girl’s father stated before police that his girl was asked for admission for few hours to administer saline in her body, hence, he left her there and went for some work. He later, picked his daughter and returned home on March 22. 
 
 After few days, the father got to see a leaked MMS of her daughter with Mallick in objectionable condition and on enquiring with his daughter, she revealed that she was raped by Mallick.
 
 The infuriated man reported the matter to police on April 14 and an FIR was lodged against Mallick under Sections of IPC and POCSO Act.
 
 Talking to TOI, Bijapur SP Mohit Garg said that a rape case has been reported, but there’s no trace of Mallick’s connection with BJP. He has been at large since the day of FIR. Police would soon nab him.
 
 While Vikram Mandavi,   district Congress president alleged that Mallick was close to state forest minister Mahesh Gagda and was his ardent supporter, but being a rapist, he was roaming freely at Bhopalpattanam and police wasn’t arresting him. He had joined BJP two months back and is habitual offender and was earlier also accused of molesting girls and women. 
 
 Mandavi lso alleged that there was tremendous pressure upon girl’s father to withdraw the case.
 
 However, G Venkateshwar, Bijapur district president of BJP refuted the claims saying, “Mallick has nothing to do with BJP, he’s neither a primary member of party nor a worker. As far as his proximity with minister is concerned, Congress has grabbed a picture of Mallick with the minister. This doesn’t make him a close aide or a BJP member. Many people are fond of clicking selfie with prominent personalities.”
 
 According to forest minister Mahesh Gagda, he has in fact asked the Bijpaur police to inquire the case and arrest the accused at the soonest.
 
