A bunch of actors are trying to shoot for a sequence lined up for the day, at a rented premise in a remote village of Telangana. On the way to the sets, the male lead actor encounters a few exuberant eyes that couldn’t curtail their excitement. By the time the shoot picked some momentum, there was a crowd of around 200-300 locals thronging around the location to catch a glimpse of the actor. The production team had to arrange for barricades to ensure a hassle-free shoot. Such is the popularity of actor   of   fame. Don’t believe? Well, the actor couldn’t believe his eyes either when he felt the first stroke of stardom. 

 Ali made his Bollywood debut with the 2010 film Mukhbiir and later played the lead in Telugu movies like Gayakudu and Cine Mahal. However, nothing got him closer to the masses like his TV stint. Perhaps that’s why he couldn’t say ‘NO’ to playing the lead in  , a new daily soap.
 
 The young good looking actor has been recently listed in the Times Top 10 Most Desirable Men List. Guess his reaction?!
 
 "I never saw this coming. Thanks to TOI for recognising serials actors as actors,” says Ali, thereby throwing light on the aging stereotype. 
  
  
 
 
 
 This Hyderabadi actor of Iranian origin featured in a supporting role alongside Ram Charan in the 2017 film   but he opines that the reach television offers is incomparable.
 
 Elaborating on the same, Ali says, “Acting in cinema and television has its own pros and cons. But Television has made me a family member of thousands. After the success of Pasupu Kumkuma, many asked me to do more in TV. And here I am back with Maate Mantramu.”
 
 Talking about his role in the new daily soap, Ali explains, “I’ve got to play a character in Maate Mantramu that is completely different from my earlier ones. I’m confident that the viewers will love it.”
 
 Ali belongs to the sect that staunchly believes that television industry is evolving for good.
 
 “Over the past seven years, there is a prominent change in the TV industry. Right from the budgets to work culture, there is a welcoming change,” states Ali. 
 
 While his mother Naheed is his biggest critic, his father Abbas who doesn’t understand Telugu often inquires Ali’s colleagues about his acting abilities. “Now and then when he visits the sets of my film/serial, he asks ‘How does he perform? Can he act?’. It feels like a parent-teacher meet. It is sweet but slightly embarrassing too.” conceals the young actor.
 
 Ali recently got married to Masuma. It was an arranged match. “She keeps me grounded. Actually she works with a private airline company and meeting film stars is a part of her routine. Yet she doesn’t have a selfie with anyone. This helps me stay grounded and motivated, too,” reveals Ali.
 
 Ali recently celebrated his first birthday after marriage and the special wishes and presents from his better half made this birthday “memorable”. 
 
 Ali’s family owns an Iranian cafe in Marredpally, Secunderabad, an ancestral business Ali helps his father with. “I used to frequent earlier but of late due to back-to-back shoots, I’m not able to contribute much. But I ensure that I don’t miss the Haleem at my place during the Ramzan season,” says Ali Reza.
 
 He is currently focused on his television projects. However, he is up for new challenges coming his way. Here’s wishing him good luck.
 
 
