TRICHY: A 34-year-old private school teacher was arrested by Kumbakonam police on Sunday for burning the national flag in protest against the inaction of the state and Union governments on constituting the Cauvery Management Board as per the   order. Meanwhile, hundreds of cadres of DMK,   and Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi were arrested by the police as they attempted to block roads and railway lines in the delta districts.

 Police initiated action against the M   of Matha Church Street at   near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district man after the video clip posted by him went viral on social media. According to police, he had been working as a drawing master in a private school for the last 10 years. Prabhu is seen burning the national flag and condemning the Centre’s stand on various issues critical to Tamil Nadu like fishermen, Cauvery, Neutrino project, hydrocarbon exploration and Koodankulam. He appealed to the youth not to burn themselves because of the anti-Tamil actions of the state and the Centre. After the video went viral, a team of police from Swamimalai arrested Prabhu on Saturday night from his house. He was booked under section 153A subclause 1A, (Promoting disharmony between different race, residence and language) and 504 section 2 on prevention of insult to national honour act (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and was being interrogated, inspector Rekharani said. 
 
 Meanwhile, police arrested 31 cadres of Naam Tamilar Katchi in Karur for attempting to stage rail roko by sitting on the tracks near Vengamedu on Sunday. Consequently, the Dehradun - Madurai weekly superfast express had to be halted for more than 25 minutes. Over 150 activists from Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi were also arrested by the police as they besieged the toll plaza located at Kulithalai in Karur district, Number 1 tollgate and Thuvakudi in   district. A large number of cadres from Tamilaga Valvurimai Katchi gathered at the toll plazas and asked the staff not to collect toll from Tamil Nadu while the centre was not ready to constitute  . Due to this, many vehicles passed through the plaza without remitting toll for a brief while. A section of students also staged protest at the Kulithalai bus stand. 
 
 Meanwhile, police arrested over 50 cadres of DMK along with Thiruverumbur MLA Mahesh Poyyamozhi as they attempted to block vehicular traffic at Central Bus Stand condemning the arrest of their party’s executive president and opposition leader M K Stalin in Chennai. Members of Indian Medical Association also staged hunger strike in Tiruvarur.
 
 
