AHMEDABAD:   may have transformed itself into a place to be for   after   relocated its   (West Bengal) but smaller firms in the motown seems to have not benefitted from the development. Faced with issues related to   and penalty for  , some 150 companies are mulling shifting their projects from Sanand to Madhya Pradesh.

 Already 150-odd companies have surrendered plots allocated to them in Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) estate in Sanand and 40% of them have moved their projects out of Gujarat to Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh, claimed officials of Sanand Industries Association (SIA). Sanand has been touted as the fine example of industrial development by the government.
 
 “150 more companies that are part of our association are now mulling shifting their industrial projects to MP, as they are unable to start business operations due to working capital blockage over long-pending land allotment issues,” said Ajit Shah, president, SIA.
 
 These firms, mainly MSMEs, have carried out initial-level talks with the MP government officials. “They have invited us to MP this weekend to explore business opportunities and are ready to provide us with space some 20km from Indore. Their proposal and further incentives will be discussed during the meeting this week. We are positively considering the proposition,” added Shah.
 
 GSPC weighs options to restructure debt
 After utilising proceeds of stake sale in its KG Basin gas block to ONGC to partly reduce its debt, state government-owned GSPC is now weighing options to further cut its debt, which is around Rs 16,500 crore at present. The options include merger of group companies, funding from the state budgetary resources or cheaper long term soft loan from international agency, revealed sources privy to the development. 
 
 
 
 
 GIDC’s industrial estate in Sanand houses car plant of Ford India and several auto component makers apart from dozens of multinational companies from across the globe.
 
 GIDC has imposed annual penalty-2% of the land priceon 200 units for non-utilization of allotted plots. The penalty amounted to Rs 300 crore as of 2015.
 
 “Unless the penalty is paid up, the plot owner will not get lease documents transferred in one’s name. As a result, the plot owner cannot seek loan for construction. Our working capital is blocked for six years,” he added. These plots were allotted in 2012 in Sanand. Investments to the tune of Rs 1,000 crore were made.
 
 “When GIDC failed to provide us with basic infrastructure including roads, water and power supply till 2015, it was not possible to start operations or even construction! We have moved the Gujarat High Court in 2016 seeking to change the date of allotment to March 31, 2015,” argued Atul Shah, member, SIA.
 
 
