KOLKATA: Blood spilt in a   within a few metres of   in   on Republic Day when members of a club attacked another over  . The incident in which several innocent residents were injured and vehicles damaged came within 48 hours of chief minister   urging local clubs to behave responsibly, act as para watchdog and create a peaceful atmosphere in the neighbourhoods.

 More than seven people were injured when close to 30 men from the neighbouring Prantik Palli allegedly armed with swords, iron rods and soda bottles attacked the blood donation camp by Dhanmath Shibmandir Puja Committee in Swarup Kalika Place behind Acropolis mall on Friday evening.
 
 Of the seven injured, at least three including a woman had nothing to do with the warring clubs. They were beaten black and blue with one person receiving six stitches on his forehead and a fracture on his right toe because they happened to be present at the spot. Police, though, said only two persons were injured and they have been identified as Paritosh Biswas
 
 (47) and Ashok Shaw (37). Police have so far arrested three people after registering a case and counter case under different sections of rioting. They have been identified as Biswajit Saha (20), Chhotu Majhi alias Tonde (32) and Amit Yadav (22).
 
 “The ransack started around 5pm and continued for over 40 minutes during which they hit people indiscriminately and smashed everything in sight. The camp had got over and we were wrapping up when the attack took place,” said Ashok Sau, one of the organisers.
 
 The violence ostensibly started over blaring of sound boxes but cops felt that it could be a retaliation of a clash in last August when Prantik Palli Club in Ward 107 was attacked in a similar fashion by some miscreants over share of syndicate business.
 
 Biswas, who received six stitches on his forehead and fractured his right toe, was sitting outside his house in Swarup Kalika Place adjacent to Garden High School at around 5pm when a mob of 30 people attacked the blood donation camp at Dhanmath. They ransacked the shamianaand broke sound boxes. They then started beating up people in the vicinity. “Five to six attackers threw me on the ground and started beating me with rods. One of them hit me with a soda bottle on my head. I kept pleading that I have nothing to do with the club but they would not listen,” said Biswas, 54.
 
 Sabita Roy, who is a tenant in one of the ground floor apartments at Swarup Kalika Place, stepped out of her house to find what the commotion was all about. One of the miscreants who was holding an iron rod pushed her to the ground and was about to hit her when she managed to dodge him and ran inside the house.
 
 Police said frequent clashes in several pockets of Kasba are fallout of a rivalry between the two groups over garnering contracts for supplying construction materials to builders.
 
