TRICHY: A day after TOI reported defacement of the   bridge with graffiti by political parties on parapet walls, the state highways department on Saturday launched a cleaning drive to clear all wall paintings. 

 Along with whitewashing the parapet walls, which is underway, highways department officials have also assured to commence the much-awaited repair work, at an estimated cost of Rs 35 lakh, within a month to ensure the safety of parapet walls by installing handrails and renovating the damaged footpaths.
 
 The Cauvery bridge with a width of 17m standing on 14 segments spanning 540m was built in 1976 across the Cauvery river linking the Srirangam island. 
 
 With crores of public money spent in constructing and refurbishing the vital bridge of   in the last four decades, the parapet walls were spammed by various political parties like the AIADMK, DMK, CPI and even actor Kamal Haasan’s upcoming party to advertise their announcements, even though there is a ban against such advertising. 
 
 After TOI carried a report titled “This is Ugly; political graffiti defacing clean city”, dated February 16, it is learnt that state highways department on Saturday morning commenced the cleaning drive including the whitewash work on the entire stretch of the Cauvery bridge.
 
 “Though it is a welcome move, the departments concerned should make sure that such political graffiti never crops up again in public property,” said P Aiyarappan, representative of Legal Awareness and Anti-Corruption Organisation. Criticising the activities of political parties defacing public properties with graffiti, youths mobilised through social media platforms had also carried out cleaning work to remove advertisement posters on a portion of Good Shed bridge near the   roundabout on Saturday. 
 
 When contacted, an official source with the highways department said, “The whitewash work will completely cover the entire stretch of the Cauvery bridge to remove the graffiti. Meanwhile, renovation work on Cauvery bridge will be taken up in a month.” Welcoming the move, social workers also sought the authorities to collect the cost for removing the graffiti from political parties that had used the walls.
 
 
