JAIPUR: Panic prevailed among 2,000 families of students of   as the state education department cancelled its ‘No Objection Certificate’ ( ) for not adhering to government’s directive over school fees.

 The department has confirmed to have informed the   regional office to cancel the affiliation of the school. Parents want the state to take action against the school but ensure that no student suffers.
 
 Since the news spreads like wildfire, parents made frantic calls to the school but in vain. Some panicked parents reached schools but were not assisted by the school. “I don’t know what does cancellation of NOC means. I called up school but they are not responding. My son is a student here and is equally concerned by the news. I hope everything will be resolved soon,” said Rita Kapoor, a parent.
 
 The NOC is an important document for every school. It is issued by the state after confirming that school is meeting all rules and regulations of the state. State can review the NOC in case they find any violation by the school. The respective education boards grant their affiliation and recognition on the basis of NOC.
 
 “The cancellation of NOC is done in extreme cases,” said education official.
 
 State is in no mood to spare the school. “After axing NOC, I have asked the regional director of CBSE to initiate the process of de-recognizing this school,” said Vasudev Devnani, state education minister.
 
 He told TOI that the concerned school has flouted the   Schools (Regulation of fee) Act. “They were given several chances to take the necessary corrective measures but they paid no heed. They left us with choice to cancel their NOC,” said Devnani.
 
 State asked them to explain the reasons behind the hike of 20% and above fees and also reveal the details of the school level fees committee which they school failed to respond in the stipulated period of time.
 
 V K Surana, chairman of advisory committee of BVB Vidhyashram refused to comment on the controversy stating that matter is sub-judice.
 
 Sources said that CBSE regional office will examine the case and submit its report to the central office in Delhi.
 
 
