MYSURU: Former   Justice N   attributed the rise in corruption to the Indian society’s attitude towards those with wealth. Justice Hegde, who delivered the   address at the   (UoM) on Monday, said, “We have lost our conscience to tell the difference between wealth gained through legitimate and illegitimate means. Our society honours the rich without pausing to consider how he/she amassed wealth. Those who turned rich through hard work, and those who earned wealth through corruption are treated equally. This encourages people to become corrupt. Nobody in our society considers corruption as an evil.”

 Lamenting the disappearance of professional discipline across all fields, Hegde added, “Hunger for money is killing each and everything. No rules seem to apply in this race for wealth. Everyone is thinking only about the end result, which is money. It is wrong to think corruption is limited to just politics and bureaucracy. The only difference is that it may be more in a few sectors than in others. All professions have their own bodies, but they become active only during elections. They don’t have the time to verify complaints of corruption against their members.”
 
 Pointing to the country’s precarious condition when it came to transparency, the former Lokayukta said, “Owing to our population and corruption, our development has become invisible. If we had controlled the rise in population, and checked corruption, India would have been a rich country by now. There would have been fewer tears in the eyes of Indians.”
 
 Hegde further bemoaned the paucity of statesmen in India. “There are a lot of politicians, but no statesmen. The society is under the clutches of communalism, casteism, and rich-poor bias. Only students can emerge as the saviours of democracy,” he added, calling for efforts to be made to ensure equality in all sectors.
 
 UoM in-charge vice-chancellor Prof. C basavaraju, the university registrar D Bharati, registrar (evaluation) J Somasekhar were present.
 
 
