KOZHIKODE: The tourism industry in Malabar is on the edge as Nipah virus (NiV) causalities continue to rise, sparking fears among stakeholders of possible impact on tourist arrivals. 

 According to industry players, they have already started seeing cancellation of bookings in places like Wayanad, a major tourism destination in the state.   tourism authorities are of the view that the NiV outbreak will not have any significant impact on the state's tourism prospects as the infection is limited to a small geographical area. However, many resorts said they had started receiving calls from foreign travel agents, inquiring whether it was safe to visit tourist destinations in the state.
 
 "Already, we have seen some cancellations of bookings due to panic reaction by tourists on hearing news reports," said KR Vancheeswaran of Wayanad Tourism Organisation, a consortium of hotels, homestays and hospitality partners in Wayanad.
 
 He said that the state tourism department should come out with an advisory to present the real picture to travellers and allay concerns.
 
 "There are players in other states, who are spreading rumours that there is a big outbreak in Kerala. We have taken steps to allay such fears and sent out messages to give the true picture that the infections are limited to a suburb in  ," Vancheeswaran added. Industry stakeholders said that though foreign countries had not issued any travel advisories yet, they were keeping a close watch as the monsoon tourism season was about to begin.Many foreign media have carried news reports of the Nipah infection.
 
 The Gujarat and Tamil Nadu governments have issued health advisory following the Nipah virus infections in Kozhikode asking people to stay away from trees or buildings with bat populations and not to eat raw fruits without washing or peeling. They have also been asked to avoid contact with infected people.
 
 State tourism director P Bala Kiran said that the incident has not affected any of major tourism destinations in the state "There is no need to panic and visitors can always go to other areas in the state. We will soon be issuing an advisory,” he added.
 
 
