CENTURION: Intent. It's likely the word will end up becoming the most used catchphrase this year when referring to the Indian team. It's a word Virat Kohli emphasised upon after the loss at Cape Town. It's a word that most Indian batsmen have clearly devalued in South Africa so far. In fact, they did it once again at the SuperSport Park on Sunday, especially on a wicket which presented them an opportunity to get at the top of their game.

 
 
 Intent, yet again, is what Kohli emphasised the same day, this time not by merely uttering it but making his actions speak louder.
 
 
 
 "The batsmen need to show more intent," is precisely what Kohli had said after the first Test defeat. Amid ruins, as India's top order once again fell apart, he showed what he had meant.
 
 
 
 
 At stumps, the Indian skipper was 15 short of what could go on to be the first century of this series. As he went about with his task for the better part of Sunday's play, the rest of the top order fell for a collective 95 runs. In that   scored 46, and yet, in order of bad going worse, he disappointed yet again.
 
 The Chennai opener had found his feet. The wicket suited his style of play and the conditions couldn't have gotten better for him after the clumsy Cape Town experience.
 
 And yet, four runs short of a half-century, he tried to cut  . He'd been trying it all afternoon and still getting lucky - a kind of urge that's cost India dearly in this series - until he finally ran out of it.
 
 Vijay was the third wicket to fall, the first two being KL Rahul, who replaced  , and   at number three.
 
 Rahul failed to judge the length, a factor both bowlers and batsmen had struggled earlier in the series. Sunday was the Bengaluru boy's turn to experience the same. An awkward attempt to drive Morne Morkel, with no use of feet whatsoever, got him caught and bowled.
 
 Pujara's dismissal, next, was the most depressing of all Indian wickets. A Sunday he won't be forgetting in a hurry, the Test specialist attempted asneaky single, looking to get past a very impressive South African fielding unit, and fell short by a mile. It was a direct hit from SA debutant Lungi Ngidi and Pujara lay on the field for what looked seemed like hours, his head buried in the grass, before he found the stomach to stand up and walk away.
 
 It was the kind of brainfreeze that has the potential to lock away an entire batting unit into a frenzy. And that's exactly what Pujara's dismissal did.
 
