NEW DELHI: Sri Lanka's chances of reaching the final of the 2018 Nidahas Trophy have taken a hit following a surprise loss to Bangladesh over the weekend, followed by a two-game suspension for skipper   on account of a poor over-rate. This means that all three teams are level on two points, but it will be India - brimming with confidence after hammering Bangladesh - that will have a spring in their step when they meet the deflated home team in Colombo on Monday for game four of the tournament.

 
 
 
 
 The two concerns for India would be the form of stand-in captain  , whose last five scores in T20Is are 17, 0, 11, 0 and 21, and   who has conceded runs in Sri Lanka. Rohit has a good record against Sri Lanka in this format, so expect him to cash in should he manage a start. 
 
 
  R Premadasa, Colombo
 
 
  March 12, 2018
 
 
  1900 IST
 
 
  Humid and in the mid-20s, with 88% humidity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With Chandimal suspended, Dhananjaya de Silva should get a look-in. Coming off a defeat to Bangladesh, in which their bowlers failed to defend 214, Sri Lanka have to address the bowling. Two expensive and wicketless outings could see Akila Dhananjaya benched for Amila Aponso. 
 
 
  1 Danusha Gunathilaka, 2  , 3  , 4 Dhananjaya de Silva, 5 Upul Tharanga, 6 Dasun Shankaka, 7   (capt), 8 Jeevan Mendis, 9 Amila Aponso, Dushmantha Chameera, 11 Nuwan Pradeep
 
 
 
 
 The visiting team was unchanged in the last game, despite losing to Sri Lanka, but one change could be inevitable. Rishabh Pant has scores of 23 and 7 without once looking dangerous, and his place could be taken by KL Rahul or Deepak Hooda. 
 
 
  1 Rohit Sharma (capt), 2 Shikhar Dhawan, 3  , 4 Rishabh Pant/KL Rahul/Deepak Hooda, 5 Manish Pandey, 6   (wk), 7 Vijay Shankar, 8 Washington Sundar, 9  , 10 Jaydev Unadkat, 11 Yuzvendra Chahal 
 
 
 
 
 "Variations are the most important part of the game. To play with batsman's mind, you need variations. When the batsman is expecting something and you do it differently, you are [then] successful as a bowler." - Jaydev Unadkat.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
