He strides confidently into a south Kolkata café, sits back with ease, and says, “Shoot”. That’s   for you — unassuming and frank. In the city after almost a decade for a solo art exhibition, Phreedom4Ever Monologues 2018, he speaks about theatre in India, nuances of creative expressions and his works. Excerpts:

 I think I enjoy writing essays most because it gives me tremendous freedom. It’s not constricted by any extraneous conditions. If you’re a playwright, you automatically deal with things keeping in mind whether they would be well represented on stage or not. Though writing plays is challenging, there are certain experiences that are extremely personal. They can’t be translated into theatrical work. That’s why writing essays is comforting and gratifying. My essays begin with a personal account, but I try to transcend the personal and make it universal.
 
 Well, somewhere somebody slapped this label on me of being a socio-political writer. I write about human beings trapped in a particular situation. The socio-political references do seep in, but the main objective is human beings.
 
 Exactly so. But I don’t underline a socio-political situation. About Padmaavat, things are getting worse by the day. You know you can fight a government or go to court because there’s a structure. But when a group of people decide to take the law into their hands and start telling you what’s right, what’s Indian, and what’s not, it creates fear in the minds of people. But this is being done by a minuscule minority spread across the country. About 90% of the people I know don’t agree with them, but they are afraid because they are not united. Which sensible person would want to ban a film they haven’t even seen? This is sad and worrisome — indicative of very bad times ahead.
 
 
 But I have portrayed some strong men too. And have you ever noticed that strong women characters are always created by male writers? Ibsen’s Nora, Tagore’s and Sarat babu’s women, Mahabharat... who could create Draupadi? But I don’t watch many movies. I spend my time reading and hardly even watch television. But when I do and see all the happy women in the advertisements, I ask myself, ‘Where are they?’. I’m surrounded by people, especially women, who are working and slogging, being ill-treated and abused. These ads are far removed from reality. I have a housekeeper, for whom, it’s a dream world. Nobody really believes this kind of a world exists. I understand you have to colourfully package what you want to sell, but these ads are decadent. As for music, I listen only to classical compositions.
 
 I am indebted to these four pillars of Indian theatre, especially Vijay Tendulkar and Girish Karnad. It’s because of them that we are where we are. As for keeping the audience interested, you don’t have to worry about it if you know what touches their hearts. But sadly, writers, even extremely skilled ones, miss that point and their plays don’t work. But all they have to do is strike the right chord.
 
 But I think that’s a misconception. My trilogy is being enacted in Mumbai and Pune; and it’s about eight-and-a-half-hour-long. Around 60% of the audience is young, and they not only sit through it, but even respond positively. I get calls and emails from them and I’m surprised that they take so much interest. It’s again a matter of hitting the right chord. Once an audience feels connected, you can hold their attention.
 
 No, I haven’t seen it because I wasn’t invited. I’ve seen Sohag Sen’s productions and loved Uttaradhikar and Uttarpurush. Back in 1989, Uttaradhikar was a marvellous production. I didn’t feel it was a translation; it felt like an original script. Sohag had weaved in Bengali ethos so beautifully. Then I saw Jayati Bose’s Pratibimbo, which was a wonderful production again.
 
 I don’t really know what’s happening in Bengal or Bengali theatre of late. I have lost touch. Back in the ’90s, Kolkata was my second home, but not anymore. But as far as I know, Bengali theatre doesn’t have many new playwrights. Of course, I could be wrong. In Marathi theatre, however, we have Makarand Sathe, Rajeev Naik and Ashutosh Potdar. They are much younger than me and writing wonderful stuff. Sometimes, Bengali plays come to Nagpur, where I live, and they have impeccable productions. Recently, I heard Vijay Tendulkar’s Ghashiram Kotwal is being staged here and some of my Marathi friends told me it’s as good as the Marathi production. Bengali and Marathi theatre traditions have been going parallel for almost 150 years; they are similar in many ways.
 
 There’s hardly any new scripting. When I watched the film, I realised that except for the first three-four minutes, where she introduced two new characters, the rest of the screenplay is based on what I’d written. The dialogues, sequence of scenes — everything is the same, because the text can be read like a screenplay. So, you should ask this question to Aparna rather than me. As far as Sohag’s production is concerned, I haven’t seen it yet, but I’ve been told that it’s wonderful.
 
 There was no question of resisting commercial pressures, because when I began, I knew I wasn’t going to make a career out of it. Writing for movies was an accident. I was not interested at all. But Govind (Nihalani) was, and still is, a friend, and so is Ketan (Mehta). So, when they approached me and wanted to make films on my works, I said alright. But after that, I’ve never bothered about films.
 
 I think you also need to ask a filmmaker about this. For me, when a play or even a novel is made into a film, it loses its original flavour. Something is lost in translation. I haven’t read Bibhuti Bhushan (Bandopadhyay) but even   received flak for changing certain parts of Pather Panchali. But anybody who hasn’t read the story, loves the film; I’ve seen it over 100 times. Unless a playwright and a director think alike and work hand-in-hand, significant plays should not be adapted as films. It’s a risk for the filmmaker.
 
 I create silences within the text deliberately at times and at other times, they get created. But they add a lot to the text in terms of expressing unsaid experiences. They lend a sort of richness to it. I don’t know about modern India, but we are all constantly searching for meaning, whichever part of the world we may be in.
 
 When I started writing, Vijay Tendulkar was a great presence everywhere. And I had great admiration for him, but at the same time, I knew I was not like him. My concerns, my priorities were different; what I had to say about life was totally different. So, it was quite natural that I’d write differently. It was a deliberate decision in a sense that a son of a famous playwright would like to write plays, but not like his father. His father’s reputation becomes a burden, you know. That was a big challenge. I knew if I would imitate, I would never be Mahesh Elkunchwar, I would be a copy of Tendulkar. So, I decided that even if I write bad plays, they should be my own work. Later, I realised that I can never be like him. We are poles apart, though we admire each other greatly.
 
 
