Visakhapatnam: To conserve water and enhance water purity in   farming, the central marine fisheries research institute (CMFRI), Visakhapatnam, has launched its Make-in-India initiative of   aquaculture ( ) recently.

 This cost-effective indigenous technology can be used for broodstock development and high density culture of commercially valuable fish by recycling water in a tank with little electricity consumption. While imported ones cost Rs 70 lakh to Rs 1 crore, the India-made recirculatory tank can be made by spending a mere Rs 10-12 lakh and can last upto 10 years. 
 
 This technology makes use of two 125 tonne capacity RCC (Reinforced concrete cement) tanks. Water is circulated through the system by a couple of pumps. From the fish tank, the water is pumped to rapid sand filters, which helps remove the coarse particulate matter like feed and fecal matter. From the sand filters, it goes to the protein skimmer to skim the protein material. After that the water goes to bio filters. In the biofilter, bioballs are used to increase the surface area for attachment of micro-organisms. Here nitrosomonas and nitrobacter bacteria convert ammonium (NH4+) to nitrites (NO2-) and nitrates (NO3-). “The water gets 300% recirculated and it reduces ammonium upto 90%. There is just 3% loss of water due to evaporation and protein skimming,” explained Dr Subhodeep Ghosh, senior scientist and scientist-in-charge of CMFRI, who along with his team consisting of scientists Sekar Megarajan, Ritesh Ranjan and Biji Xavier has developed this technology.
 
 Ghosh said, “A lot of water is needed for fish farming and globally there is shortage of water. So this is primarily aimed at water conservation by circulating and purifying the water. Monitoring the water for over a year has shown that the parameters like acidity and salinity did not change, but the ammonia build-up had reduced by 90%. Electricity consumption was just 36 KW per day. One tank with all the components for water recirculation costs just Rs 10-12 lakh. Even private fish farmers are interested in replicating it in Krishna-Godavari area .
 
 
