Chandigarh: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the UP cadre IPS officer Amitabh Thakur to establish his locus standi in the ongoing petition of the Haryana government seeking quashing of President’s order dropping the chargesheet against whistleblower Indian Forest Service (ISF) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi.

 Known for activism for bureaucratic accountability, Thakur wanted the high court to hear him in the case on the grounds that the matter had vital implication for All India Service (AIS) officers, specifically regarding their disciplinary matters.
 
 Adjourning the case for February 28 for further hearing, Justice P B Bajanthri observed, “He has to establish his locus in the present proceedings since grievance in the main petition is relating to petitioner-state of Haryana, Union of India and Sanjeev Chaturvedi.”
 
 Thakur had decided to become intervener on the issue after Justice Bajanthri, in his February 7 orders, had asked the Centre to explain if the Union of India could interfere in a disciplinary matter of a member of AIS in the disciplinary proceedings under the All India Service Rules, 1969.
 
 The 1992-batch officer, Thakur, submitted that many honest and sincere AIS officers have suffered tremendously at the hands of unscrupulous politicians because of their refusal to follow illegal orders and departmental chargesheets, suspension and other departmental proceedings have been a convenient tool in the hands of state-level politicians to harass such honest officers and put their entire career at risk.
 
 In this case, Haryana has been contending that the Union ministry of environment and forest (MOEF) had illegally constituted a committee that had given clean chit to Chaturvedi and indicted state government officials. It has been contended by Haryana that the committee had submitted a report casting aspersions against its officials without giving them any opportunity of hearing. State has been contending that the orders of central government were unconstitutional and violated the principles of natural justice.
 
 HC clarifies Feb 7 orders
 
 In his order released on Friday, Justice P B Bajanthri also clarified the February 7 orders in which the court had referred to Sanjiv Chaturvedi as member of a service of a state. “Counsel for Sanjiv Chaturvedi pointed out that in February 7 orders, instead of member of All India Service it has been wrongly mentioned as member of service of a state. Therefore, in February 7 orders, wherever member of service of a state is mentioned it is to be read as member of All India Service,” the HC clarified.
 
 
