CHENNAI:Prime Minister   on Saturday stole the show at the launch of the state government’s   and a massive tree plantation programme to mark the 70th birth anniversary of  .

 Paying tributes to the former CM, his friend for years, Modi, said, “Wherever she is, I am sure she would be happy to see the happiness on your faces. I am glad to be launch one of her dream projects —   two-wheeler scheme. The schemes will empower women and protect nature.” The PM gave away keys to five beneficiaries as a token gesture.
 
 
 
 
 The PM, who also planted a Magizham sapling at   to launch the plantation drive, greeed the crowd in Tamil, invoking the famous lines of poet Subramania Bharathi on gender equality. “I am proud to be in Bharathi’s land. Women, you are great,” he said.
 
 Highlighting his government’s commitment to empower women and protect the nature, Modi detailed programmes for women’s welfare. Under Mudra scheme, 11 crore applicants were disbursed ₹4.6 lakh crore in loans without any bank guarantee.
 
 Of them, 70% of the beneficiaries are women. “The success of the scheme was proof that women in the country were stepping out of the ageold shackles and seeking selfemployment,” he said. “Jan Dhan Yojana has benefited women in a big way. Of 31 crore account holders, 16 crore are women. The percentage of total bank accounts held by women has gone up from 28% in 2014 to 40% now,” the PM said. The Swachh Bharat Mission has given women respect and dignity, which is their right. The Centre worked on a mission mode to provide toilets for girl children in all government schools, he said.
 
 Flanked by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and senior cabinet members, Modi said ₹24,000 crore worth of projects were implemented by the state with central assistance after the NDA government assumed office.
 
 Against the backdrop of growing anger among the farmers and the fishing community over the Centre’s indifference to their plight, the Prime Minister said the state benefited from the Fasal Bima Yojana (PM crop insurance scheme), under which around ₹2,600 crore was extended to farmers.
 
 Palaniswami urged Modi to take action to form the Cauvery management board and the Cauvery water regulation committee as per the SC directions.
 
