HYDERABAD: After 3 rank slip in last year’s Swachh Survekshan rankings, Residential Welfare Associations feel that Hyderabad may slip further on the ranking list in this year’s survey as more municipalities are participating in the annual event. Last year, Hyderabad had secured 22nd rank in the nationwide survey.

 Officialsfrom Swachh Survekshan inspection team will visit Hyderabad on February 15 to assess the city on sanitation standards. “This year 4,041 municipalities are participating in the survey as compared to 434 last year. And people’s cooperation is mandatory toscore more marksthis year,” said  , president of  .
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The Swachh Survekshan 2018 inspection will be done by three teams working simultaneously. The first team will verify the documentation of servicelevel progress at head office, followed by field inspection. A sample of 10 households in each zone (circles) istobe randomly selected from the list of wards where dry and waste garbage is segregated.
 
 Out of the 10, if three or more households answer is ‘No’ for source segregation, negative marking would apply. A sample of nine RWAs/ bulk generators is to be randomly selected from the list of parks practising on-site composting. If two or more RWAs/ owners fail to do so, negative marking will apply again.
 
 The second team will commence direct observation, by randomly visiting public washrooms and markets to assess the sanitation standards. The third team willcollectcitizen feedback through face-toface interaction. Out of the total 4,000 marks, public feedback carries 1,400 marks. The inspection teams will ask six questions relatedtosanitation standards. The teams will also carry out a series of activities to assess the city.
 
 In an attempt to increase the sanitation standards,   commissioner B   said on February 14 around 45,000 self-help groups are being involved in Swachh Survekshan 2018. The GHMC is also planning to identify the best Swachh colonies and thebestcolonywillbe allowed to erect signages reading ‘Truly a Swachh Colony’.
 
 TIMES VIEW: With only 22,000 sanitation workers for 20 lakh households, every citizen should take responsibility in helping Hyderabad achieve a better rank by cooperating with the RWAs and segregate waste properly.
 
