Ranchi: The Jharkhand   on Friday granted RJD president   a provisional   of six-weeks on medical grounds. Lalu got the bail for treatment of his major illnesses related to the heart and kidneys at specialized medical centres in the country. “The provisional bail will be effective from the time when Lalu is released,” said Prabhat Kumar, the former Bihar chief minister’s lawyer.

 Lalu is under judicial custody after his sentencing in four   cases related to fraudulent withdrawal of funds from the Dumka, Deoghar and Chaibasa treasuries. Notably, Lalu was granted three-day parole by the state government on Thursday to attend his son’s marriage at   on Saturday.
 
 Granting the bail to Lalu, justice Aparesh Kumar Singh said life was important for any person, whether a convict or a common citizen. Lalu’s medical reports from All India Institute of Medical Sciences and the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences show that the condition of his kidney and heart are at a critical stage. In such circumstances, Lalu needs specialized treatment, the judge said.
 
 CBI lawyer Niraj Kumar said there are certain conditions imposed on Lalu for the bail. He cannot travel abroad as his passport has been submitted in court. Lalu also could not hold a public rally or issue a political statement.
 
 Lalu has to furnish a bond of Rs50,000 for each case in which he has been convicted for availing the bail. The RJD president, who had left for Patna on Thursday evening, will have to return to Ranchi and apply for the bail. He has to submit a report regarding his treatment after six weeks.
 
 Lalu’s case was pleaded by group of lawyers led by Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi. They said there was no improvement in Lalu’s health after he was sent to AIIMS. The defence lawyers argued that it was necessary for Lalu to visit advanced medical centres, including Asian Heart Institute in Mumbai, Global Hospital in Bengaluru and Medanta in New Delhi.
 
 CBI lawyer Rajiv Sinha objected to the bail petition, saying the AIIMS report on Lalu has not stated that he required specialized treatment. He added that AIIMS had prescribed medication for Lalu and sent him back to Rims. The CBI lawyer also objected to a portion in the petition that stated that AIIMS report was stage managed. Lalu’s lawyer’s said that they would withdraw the statement.
 
 
