While you’ve been longing to shed your heavy winter coat, the transitional period from February to March is a tricky time weatherwise – and fashionwise. You may feel comfortable in an easy-breezy dress during the day, but once the sun goes down you want a light layer. Bottomline? You can’t leave the layers just yet. 

 When it comes to style, layering is an old hack used by many to add an interesting dimension to a tried-and-tested look. With the recent shift from minimalism to exuberance, get creative with new layering pieces. 
 
 
 Adding layers to your spring and summer wardrobe can ward off unexpected weather conditions and take your look a notch up. Designer   says that layering makes you ready to face everyday multiple changes in temperature. While out for an early morning run, a sporty jacket helps you brace the cold wind. The days get warmer and the nights are cool, so keeping a light layer handy takes care of the change. She adds: “Then, there are manufactured changes in temperature to contend with throughout the day, such as in office and retail store environments where air conditioning feels as though it’s been set to Arctic. In such cases, layering helps you manage the extreme variations with poise.” 
 
 
 When layering, you want your spring and summer clothing to have a bit of baggy look, so that the air can circulate through to your skin. Even the layer closest to your skin, should be a little loose to allow a decent air flow. Designer Varsha Wadhwa suggests investing in light jackets, both long or short, in fabrics like linen, cotton, jersey, silk, chambray, chiffon, and georgette. “Team light jackets with dressy camisoles, crisp shirts or shiny bandeaus depending on the occasion. A sheer trench over an embellished camisole dress is a perfect example of a fashionable and breezy layered look,” she says. When layering, make sure that nothing is too bulky, and the colours complement even if its in sharp contrast. Good layering options are lightweight linen jackets, or casual capes. The key to layering in warm weather is the ability to put on and remove layers with ease.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Male call From sporty zippers, linen jackets to vests, men too have layering options. Ensure that colours and patterns complement each other.
 
 
 For summer layering, go for light-weight layers. Pick scarves, jackets, shrugs, capes in striking prints, but don’t overdo it.
 
 
 Go for loose and drapey cuts with a structured shoulder like kimonos and waterfall jackets
 
 
 Use sheer long jackets and capes to layer your saree. Make sure the layer is pinned neatly
 
 
 Long embroidered or hand painted jackets are in vogue. Pair them with ethnic as well as western wear, formally or for casual events
 
 
 Long and short layers in sheer fabrics like chiffon and georgette work well for the summer season
 
 
 
