He is nameless. He is homeless as well; the   has been his “home” since he was rescued from Sagar Island after the annual   a decade ago. He is also deaf-mute, cannot read and write and has only been able to indicate that he came to the pilgrimage with his grown-up children and then got lost.

 He is not alone. There are several others like him at this hospital, all dumped at the annual pilgri-mage site, where millions converge every January. All the pilgrims return home after the holy dip, presuming they are leaving their sins behind. Some, however, leave beh-ind something else: frail, old par-ents or grandparents.
 
 Sagar Island, where the annual   Mela comes off in the middle of January every year, is emerging as another Varanasi, where some families come to dump their oldest members and then return home without leaving any trace of how to get in touch with them. These old men and women are then sent to government hospitals where they waste away, often till they die.
 
 Most of these dumped senior citizens are from other states, indicating people journey hundreds of kilometres to leave behind these old people as far as possible from home. But there are some cases from Bengal, and Kolkata, as well. Rescuers have been able to trace at least two families from near the city who have even held shraddh ceremonies after dumping their oldest members at Sagar. 
 
 “There are about 10 such people at the Sagore Dutta Hospital in Kamarhati. We were recently asked by the administration to try and get some of them back home. We traced one family to Baranagar. But, when we showed her photograph to her neighbours, they said they had been told about her death five years ago and that they had even attended her shraddh ceremony. We then visited her family and her brother confessed that they had dumped her as it was bey-ond his means to feed her,” amateur radio enthusiast and West Bengal Radio Club secretary Ambarish Nag Biswas said.
 
 But this tale had a happy end-ing. The family, after the local cou-ncillor’s intervention and assurance of financial support, agreed to take her back. “But they made it clear that they would keep her so long as they received financial support,” Nag Biswas added.
 
 TOI met another woman at the Kamarhati hospital who was dumped by her son and grandson. “My son said he was going to get some flowers and other stuff needed for the puja. I sensed something wrong when he started dragging my grandson away and the child waved at me. They never returned,” she said, refusing to give her name.
 
 Ambarish Nag Biswas and his team succeeded in tracking down her son to a rented house in Beliaghata. “We showed her son her photograph and he broke down and promised to take her back. We left after asking him to reach the hospital next morning. But he did not turn up and so we visited the locality again but found the house locked. The landlord said that the son and his family vacated the premises late that night itself. We then lost their track,” Nag Biswas said.
 
 Anita Chattopadhyay is another “patient” at Sagore Dutta hospital, who has been ditched by her brothers. Rescuers traced her brothers to the Hooghly district but were told by neighbours how they had attended her shraddh several years ago. One of the brothers, who stayed there, refused to take back his sister. He told the rescuers to visit the other brothers and check whether they were interested in doing so.
 
 “It is pathetic. We helped rescue an elderly man, who wanted to end his life, in 2016 from the waters near Lot 8 Jetty in Kakdwip. He said his sons had forced him to draw out a will in their favour and left him at Sagar. Two women, dumped by their husbands, were rescued similarly in 2017,” Nag Biswas said.
 
 
