(done/ak)

 Nashik: The anti-encroachment drive was halted in the Cidco (new Nashik) area on Thursday and the residents were told to get the illegal structures regularised by May 31.
 
 While Nashik West Constituency MLA Seema Hiray claimed that the drive was stopped at the behest of the chief minister, municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundha declined comment.
 
 Mundhe said the action was halted because people had sought some more time to regularise the structures and refused to comment on CM Devendra Fadnavis’s role in the move. 
 
 “We have asked them (residents) to get the structures regularised with compounding charges. Whatever is compoundable will be done Till May 31,” he said.
 
 The civic chief said that for the economically weaker sections, more FSI is available but for encroachments on roads and utilities like pavers and water supply lines, compounding cannot be done.
 
 The BJP MLA said Fadnavis was with the grievances of the residents on Wednesday. “We discussed the issue with the chief minister, who directed Mundhe over the phone on Wednesday night to stop the anti-encroachment drive in Cidco. We also submitted a memorandum to Fadnavis,” said Hiray, under whose constituency Cidco is.
 
 “There are around 25,000 houses in Cidco division. This is is not a small number.” 
 
 During a meeting on Thursday evening, Mundhe asked the officials concerned to stop the demolition drive for now. 
 
 A civic official said, “We have been asked to check if the unauthorised structures can be regularised through compounding charges. At present, we have been asked to discontinue the drive.” 
 
 On the issue of compounding structures, Hiray said, “We have demanded that the CM allow free FSI and cluster development for Cidco. However, this will take some time to materialise.”
 
 Meanwhile, the Cidco residents, who were planning to organise a protest rally against the anti-encroachment drive on Friday, postponed it to Monday, as the civic chief is on leave. 
 
 The residents of the area had staged a huge protest against the civic administration’ for marking the encroachments and also surrounded the divisional officer on Tuesday.
 
 The protest rally is being organised by MLC Apoorva Hiray. “We have postponed the rally to Monday as Mundhe will be out of town on Friday,” said a close aide of Hiray. 
 
 Box – 
 
 HC to hear plea on marriage lawns today, says Official
 
 Nashik: The owner of Greenfields Lawn has moved the high court against the NMC’s move to demolish unauthorised marriage halls and lawns in the city before the set deadline of May 31. 
 
 The court is reported to have summoned the municipal commissioner and NMC engineers on Friday. 
 
 “Additional commissioner Kishor Borde and deputy municipal commissioner (encroachment) will be attending the court hearing as per the directions of municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe,” said a civic official.
 
 Mundhe said, “We have received a copy of the petition.”
 
 
