He’s every household’s favourite face during prime time on television and his dimples have most women going gaga over them. It comes as no surprise then that   bags the top slot in the first ever list of   15 Most Desirable Men of Television. He tells us why   from   is like him, the female attention that he gets and how he is ‘extremely’ single right now. Excerpts from our chat with him:

 
 It is a lot of hard work along with consistency that is finally paying off. I’m ecstatic. Desirability to me isn’t only the sexual appeal or the looks, but is a holistic look at a person, his way of living and his perspectives. My idea of a desirable person is someone who leads a balanced life — sorted with regards to his family, profession and his mindset. 
 
 The most desirable thing about me is that I am a go-getter — I try and achieve whatever I think of. I’m very determined and that is my most desirable factor. Though, when it comes to other people, I think they like my dimples. 
 
 
 Siddharth is pretty similar to Vijay Suriya. He is very me in real life and that was one of the reasons I could connect easily. He is a tarle (naughty) guy, who falls in love with his wife after marriage. I may not be married, but his persona is very close to me. 
 
 
 Definitely. I began my journey in showbiz at the age of 16. I then went to Mumbai to study acting. I had no idea what to do, as my family was not in this business. I’m an introvert and I don’t go and ask people for work or advice either, which is a bad quality in me. Even now, in a social gathering, I only talk to people I know, else I keep quiet and be by myself. It was, hence, very hard for me to go and approach people and ask for work. I landed a role in Kavitha Lankesh’s Crazy Loka, but after that I didn’t get the kind of films that I wanted. My family asked me to not take those either. I was doing nothing for almost two years and it was getting to me. I needed to do something and I was wondering what next, since I had done a film, but wasn’t heading anywhere. I wanted to do something that would help me stay in touch with my craft and be busy. That was when I got this TV offer. I was against TV from day 1, but it was only because of my parents that I chose to do it then. They pushed me hard to accept it. A lot of people thought I’d taken a step down from cinema to TV, but my parents didn’t see it that way. For them, it was work. If one is supposed to reach out to people, it will happen irrespective of the medium. The first three months was very painful for my parents as I wasn’t sure about what I was doing and would never allow them to switch on the television. I wasn’t proud of what I was doing initially, as I come from a film school background and my teachers included people like  . It took a little time for me to understand that work is work and, sometimes, if people like you, you have to go with the flow and not stick by the books. So, accepting this television offer not just got me recognition, but also changed me as a person and my perspective towards life. I was way too egoistic and I lost all of it during this journey. 
 
 
 Once a girl jumped off an auto when she saw me in my car. It was near  , the auto was passing and she just jumped out to see me. In another instance, I went to Ramaiah City Hospital, to visit to a woman who had a miscarriage and was slipping into a coma. I was told that she was a huge fan of Agnisakshi. One of her sisters convinced me to meet her and I went there — it was a touching moment. She responded when I was talking and I felt so glad that my work has become a part of so many people’s lives. They acutally feel for us. This adulation is not just from young women but also from elderly women, who treat me like their own son or grandson. I feel I wouldn’t have got these many blessings if I had done just films. Crazy female fan following is always there. But, the love is immense. I think it is all because of the character, it is such a beautiful one. In today’s world, where everyone yearns for love, a character like Siddharth, who spreads love as a son and as a husband, has an instant connect. 
 
 
 I do not know to be honest. I know what my mother wants. She wants someone who can take care of me, wholeheartedly. But, I feel in today’s world it is all about give and take, equality and balanced relationships. I’m confused. But, I feel that if I see that person I will just know that she’s the one. There are a few basic things that I want — she should love my family more than me and she must take the family’s side over mine when there is an issue. She must take responsibility of the family and be the commanding one, because in our family it has always been the lady who takes the final call. Any girl, who has the capacity to handle a family and take care of it, is who I am looking for. 
 
 
 I’m single — very, very single. Extremely single. It’s not like I haven’t been in relationships, but they haven’t worked out. But, for the past one and a half years I have been very single. I do not know how to get into a relationship. I’ve lost the whole idea, to be honest.
 
 
