KOLKATA: A fire broke out in the basement of a big retail store at   in Baghajatin on Wednesday afternoon, sending all the occupants of the premises, which include a sprawling housing complex, scurrying out onto the parking lot in sheer panic. All the 40 customers and 100 employees at the store, spread over three levels, rushed out before anyone was injured.

 Iris Multi-Speciality Hospital, which is located next door, was unaffected.
  
  
 
 Aveil of thick smoke shrouded the Big Bazar outlet at  , much after the fire was doused 45 minutes later. With some of the apartments located just above the source of the fire, the security guards at the compound did not leave anything to chance; they made announcements, alerting all the residents about the blaze, and then escorted everyone from the 136 flats to safety. Scared that smoke might engulf the homes, they even carried a bed-ridden resident—her home is just above the store-—down to the open. As children returned from schools, they waited outside, coughing in the smoke. Anxious mothers tied handkerchieves on the kids’ faces, hoping that would protect them from choking.
 
 A senior fire department officer said a spark was first spotted at a little after 1pm and they received a call at 1.15pm. Four engines were sent to the spot that doused the flames a little under an hour.
 
 Kajari  , a resident, said she heared an explosive noise. “When I peeped out of my window, the acrid smell of smoke hit me hard. The façade of the entire complex where the store is located had disappeared behind a curtain of smoke. Presently, our security guards started making announcements and requested everybody to go down to the open,” the homemaker said.   lived on the fifth floor of the wing, where the store was located. “I almost fell while running down the stairs. There was an unbearable stench of something burning and we were told by the guards to evacuate as soon as possible,” she said.
 
 The fire department officer pointed out that the basement, where the fire broke out, was crammed with inflammable objects, such as cartons, clothes, thermocol and ply boards. He said a short circuit probably started the blaze though a forensic examination report would reveal the exact reason. “Since the basement was packed with inflammable objects, thick, black smoke spread to the other levels of the outlet fast. Our men had to break the glasspanes to let the smoke out,” he said, adding the store’s internal fire-fighting system did not work at the time. “We will check whether the system failed or that the store had not installed it at all.”
 
