BENGALURU: The high court ordered notices to additional chief secretary, home department, assistant commissioner of police (high court) and the station house officer of   police station in response to a PIL seeking a direction to investigate an alleged security breach at the high court during a shooting of a Kannada film on August15, 2017.

 A division bench headed by Acting Chief Justice H G Ramesh adjourned the hearing for two weeks to enable the respondents to file their response.
 
 According to petitioner N P Amrusteh, a city advocate, as per the Emblems and Names (Prevention of Improper Use) Act, 1950under theschedule Serial No.17, either name or pictorial representation of any building occupied by the Parliament or the legislature of any state,  , high court of any state, central secretariat, secretariat of any state government or any other government office is banned.
 
 The petitioner claimedtheshooting of Kannada feature film called ‘Ananthu vs Nusrath’ under the banner of   was done inside the   which falls within the high court premises and no permission had been sought from the registrar of the HC.
 
 He said that in the press meet called by the producer on September 5, 2017, Raghavendra Rajkumar had admitted to this. The petitioner added that he had submitted a complaint to Vidhana Soudha policeon October 14, 2017but no action had been taken.
 
 
 
 
 The high court on Wednesday asked all parties in the PIL concerning the city’s storm water drain mess to suggest names of subject experts/ technocrats to enable the court set up a high powered committee (HPC) to tackle the issue.
 
 The court indicated that in all probability, the chief secretary of the state would head the panel. “We know that engineers and higher officers in various departments have experience and expertise. But, we need super experts and technocrats to give suggestions for better implementation,” the bench said, before adjourning the hearing to February 16 to enable the parties to come up with suitable names. The court is hearing a PIL filed by   in 2014.
 
 
