Mangaluru: Mysuru-Kodagu MP   said the Janasuraksha Yatre is being organized by the BJP in order to protect Hindus.

 Simha was addressing party workers at Sullia during the ‘Mangaluru Chalo Janasuraksha Yatre’ of the BJP that commenced under his leadership from Kushalnagar on Sunday. He called upon party workers to teach the Congress a lesson in the assembly election.
 
 “This rally is being organized for the protection of Hindus. The government is promoting communal forces by withdrawing criminal cases registered against them. The government is encouraging communal forces to eliminate Hindu youth. An atmosphere of fear is being created among Hindus in the state,” Simha told party workers.
 
 He said Hinduism is the only religion that teaches tolerance and spreads the message of harmony. “We need to preserve the prestige and pride of the coastal districts,” he added.
 
 Dakshina Kannada MP   said the Siddaramaiah government was a “Tughlaq regime,” under which the lives of Hindus was miserable in the state. “There is no security for the common man, students and farmers in the state. There is no value given to the sentiments of Hindus under Siddaramaiah’s government, due to which our brethren are being murdered in the state,” he alleged.
 
 Talking about the apprehensions of areca growers in Karnataka, Kateel said it was the UPA government that prepared a report claiming the carcinogenic content in arecanut. “The BJP government at the Centre will withdraw the affidavit before 2019. The Union ministries of agriculture and health have been reviewing the report pertaining to arecanut, and a new report will be prepared soon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured that the government is committed to the protection of arecanut farmers,” Kateel added.
 
 After two public meets each in Sullia and Puttur, the BJP’s padayatre reached Mani on Sunday. On Monday, the rally will continue with public meets at BC Road and Moodbidri. On Tuesday Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath will address a public meet during the valedictory of the Janasuraksha Yatre in Mangaluru.
 
 
