 pulled off his best win yet, beating world No.12   of France 6-4, 6-4 in the second round of the   in   early on Monday.

 
 
 The 25-year-old played solid allround tennis, putting in 44 of 59 first serves and winning 32 of those points for an average of 73. Bhambri, ranked 110, crucially won 44 per cent of the points on Pouille’s return, converting four of seven breakpoint opportunities in the 79-minute match.
 
 
 The India No.1, who’ll play bigserving American   in the third round on Tuesday, told TOI, “I was up a double break in the first set and again went up an early break in the second set before he came back. But I was always in charge of the match. It was my match to lose. You can’t say that often when you’re playing a world No.12.”
 
 Bhambri, who came through the qualifiers in the BNP Paribas Open, is defending 62 points this week, but with his charge into the third round has made 61. He explained that he took a risk by choosing to play bigger events over Challengers, where he had gained points last year.
 
 “I made that decision after I qualified in Melbourne (Australian Open). I felt like I had enough tennis behind me and I could play at a higher level. I have played Miami once, a long time ago, but I had never played in Indian Wells. I needed more experience playing at a higher level. It’s good to have four-five good wins at this level in a week,” he said.
 
 Bhambri, who has played just one Challenger this year in Chennai last month where he reached the final, said he had benefitted from a testing pre-season in Bangkok, where he worked with coach Stephen Koon alongside some of Asia’s leading players, including Hyeon Chung and Yoshihito Nishioka. “I was playing well all these weeks, even in the pre-season. It’s about taking that form from the practice courts into matches, converting the big points,” the Indian said.
 
 The big difference in his game from 12 months ago to now, Bhambri noted was ‘physical’. “I’m able to play aggressively, the kind of tennis I want to play. Also sometimes, when it comes down to it, I can win points defensively too. I can sneak in a few points in a match that way. When you are able to do that, play longer and harder at this level, it gives you the confidence to go forward.”
 
 Bhambri hasn’t played the 30-yearold Querrey before, but drew similarities between serving styles of the 21-ranked American to South African Kevin Anderson, against who he played a three-setter in the quarterfinals of the ATP 500 series event in Washington last year.
 
 “I’m feeling good physically,” Bhambri said, “It’s great that we have a day’s break after matches. It’ll be a good match, I am expecting a tough one. He’s an American, playing at home, one of their top players. I have nothing to lose.”
 
 
