BHOPAL: Five months after it gave police inspectors powers to arrest,   filed under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Act, the state government will have to amend the order and give power to DSP in SC/ST cases.

 The   on March 20 had ordered that cases filed under SC and ST Act must be investigated by DSP-level officers. Interestingly, in MP till October 2017, such cases were being investigated by DSPs only but the state government amended the Act on October 7, 2017.MP government had issued a notification stating that ‘in exercise of the powers conferred by sub section (1) of the section 9 of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities), Act 1989 (No. 33 of 1989), the state government upon considering it necessary and expedient to do so for the prevention of and for coping with offences under the said Act, hereby, confers the powers of arrest, investigation and prosecution of persons before any special court to all the officers of the rank of police inspectors, within the state of  , with effect from the date of publication of this notification in the official gazette’. Adim Jati Kalyan ADG of police, Pragya Richa Srivastava, said she is aware of the SC’s order and the government would consider making necessary changes in the Act after the order is received.
 
 
  
 
 Officials said that the state government had decided to hand over powers to inspectors to investigate SC, ST complaints as MP sees many such cases. Challans in SC/ST cases have to be issued within 60 days. “With only 51 AJK DSPs in MP, one per district, there are too few officers to investigate all cases. But things have to be changed again to comply with SC’s orders”, the officials added.
 
 On an average, 23 cases are registered daily in MPunder the SC, ST Act. In the year 2017, 5,962 cases were registered under SC Act and 2,332 cases under ST Act, that makes a total of 8,294 cases. 
 
 The apex court suggested several other safeguards to prevent misuse of the law to harass innocents. In all case, a preliminary enquiry must be held within seven days, the court said.
 
  A case can be registered only after such an enquiry. SC made it clear that an arrest was not must in all cases. A public servant would be arrested with the written nod of her superiors and a non-public servant with the nod of a senior police officer, SC ruled. Former advocate general of MP Ravinandan Singh said MP should amend the procedure as per SC order. 
 
 
