 
NEW DELHI:  , the prime suspect in Monday’s   in which outer Delhi criminal Ravi Bhardwaj was killed,   Delhi Police’s list of  .
 
 For years, Gogi and his gang have been at war with their rival gang led by one Sunil alias Tillu of Tajpur village. Last year, they committed at least three murders, including that of two rivals masquerading as guest teachers. The rivalry between Gogi and Tillu gangs started in 2013 during the   college students’ union elections.
 
 In 2015, Gogi escaped from the custody of   in Bahadurgarh while on the way for a court hearing. Since then, he has been hiding in   and comes to Delhi only to commit crimes. He carries a reward of Rs 2 lakh. Last August, Special Cell had gunned down Jarnail Singh Jelly, the main sharpshooter of Gogi in Rudrapur, Uttarakhand.
 
  
 
 Sources confirmed that Gogi’s Man Friday, Kuldeep Fajja, has also made it to the top 10 list after Bhardwaj’s murder in Prashant Vihar. A native of Naya Bans near Alipur in northwest Delhi, Fajja is a science graduate from Delhi University. The son of a farmer, he came in contact with Gogi while he was studying in SSN College.
 
 In 2014, Fajja had shot at another rival, Vikas, and was declared an absconder.
 
 The second on the most wanted list is Surender alias Samunder Khatri from Narela. He came out of Tihar on parole on January 16, 2015. A day later, he shot dead a Delhi Police constable who was collecting information about his gang. Khatri was sentenced to life imprisonment in 2010 in a case of murder reported in Sonipat, Haryana. He had murdered a constable in Civil Lines, Gurgaon as well.
 
 Rajesh Bharti, a carjacker, who has been committing a series of crimes in Dwarka, Najafgarh and nearby areas, rose in the ranks quickly. He belongs to a village near Rohtak and has over a dozen cases of snatching cars lodged against him.
 
 Once regarded as Delhi’s deadliest gangster, Hashim Baba is synonymous with terror in northeast Delhi. A ruthless killer, Baba was jailed in 2014 after his arrest by crime branch from Ramnagar in Uttarakhand. He was lodged with his associates Abdul Nasir and Aqil Mama and carried out crimes through visitors.
 
 However, Baba jumped parole last year. In the second half of 2017, his rival, Chhenu Irfan, got several of his associates murdered. Since then, Baba has been seething in vengeance trying to take down Chhenu’s gang members.
 
 A rival of Neeraj Bawana gang, Ashok Pradhan is another headache for police. In February 2017, he had killed one Kala Asodia in Jhajjar court complex. In retaliation, the Bawana gang murdered Rajesh Durmut, the Man Friday of Ashok Pradhan, in April.
 
 Sanjay Lakra from Mundka is wanted for murder and robberies. Of late, he has turned to land-grabbing and extortion. He started as a member of Kishan Pehelwan gang in mid-2005. He was arrested three years ago, but absconded after getting bail.
 
 Several units of Delhi Police are hunting for a killer named Sandeep Vidrohi from Sapla in Haryana. He is one of the newest faces on the list. Last year, he committed a murder in Pochanpur near Dwarka where he left a note saying the victim needed to be killed as he stalked and troubled girls of the samaaj (society). Also on the list are criminals like Rajesh Mogli and Jitender Bhanja who are involved in crimes like land-grabbing, extortion, carjacking, murder and robberies.
 
 
