NEW DELHI: India should do more economic reforms and more macro stabilization to be able to increase its potential growth well above 7%, noted economist   said on Thursday.

 Roubini, who is credited with predicting the global financial crisis which earned him the nickname Dr Doom, said India needs to grow faster than 7%, maybe 8% or 9% to ensure jobs for the young population coming into the workforce.
 
 Asked about his advice on tackling the challenges in the banking sector in India, Roubini said there is a need to clean up the banking system.
 
 “Those banks that are under-capitalized will have to recapitalise. The bad assets and the NPLs have to be essentially dealt with either by provisioning or through asset management companies where these assets are taken out and managed separately. You have to change the governance of your banking system,” he said.
 
 Roubini did not clearly spell out whether privatization of state-run banks was a solution to the problem. He said one view favoured reduction of the state’s role in the banking space, which essentially means privatize them, but the other view was to provide the right incentives to bank managers and improve governance. He said the bankruptcy law is also going to improve the situation in the banking system.
 
 Participating in an interaction with chief economic adviser   at the 4th edition of the Times Network’s Indian Economic Conclave, Roubini gave an overview of the economic prospects and challenges globally, including rising protectionism and risk of a trade war between the US and China. He also referred to the risks in China, and India & China emerging as growth engines for the world.
 
 Roubini said he expects global oil prices to remain low in the long and medium term, “One risk for India is the rise in global crude oil prices. In the short run, oil prices could go higher due to some possible supply disruptions, but in the medium and long term, oil prices are going to be lower for longer,” he said, adding that massive reserves of shale gas and oil in the US, falling renewable energy prices should help keep global crude oil prices under check.
 
 Asked about reforms in India, Subramanian said stabilising implementation of GST, Air India privatization and resolving the challenges in the banking sector are part of the reform agenda in India. He said recent events in the banking sector have forced policymakers to re-evaluate whether there is a need to do more on bank recapitalization and bankruptcy resolution process.
 
 “If we can solve the twin balance sheet challenge, given the new developments that have happened, I think that itself could propel us to higher rates of growth than we have seen recently,” Subramanian said, adding that reforms in the labour market would have to be driven by states under the principle of cooperative federalism. 
 
