 became a name to reckon with as one of the contestants of Flowers TV’s popular reality show,  . Last week, the lady from Thrissur became more than a contestant, as she emerged the winner of the show, after a splendid performance on the finale. 

 She also walked away with a flat worth `1 crore and a car. From the ladder dance to aerial performances, she eased all the rounds of the finale and proved to be a deserving winner. Sruthy gets candid about the win and her experience on the show:
 
 
 
 Though I wished to enter the final list, I did not ever pray or wish to win the show. I used to have dreams about others emerging as winners. All I was determined to do was give my best and work hard.
 
 
 
 I was an introvert prior to the contest. I came across the ad of the reality show on the channel and wanted to give it a try. Thus I went for the audition in Thrissur and was one among the 200 participants. I never expected to get selected. After three months of audition, I got a surprise call from the channel and was informed that I got selected for the final audition for the show. Thus I attended it, which was a grooming round, from which 20 contestants for the show were again selected. I was one of them. Thus, we had one month grooming session in November 2016, by writer-cum-actor Jayaprakash Kuloor. Though we were competitors, the 20 participants developed a strong bond with each other in the grooming period.
 
 
 
 I was active in cultural activities during my school days. But I became reserved during my graduation days in college and also got busy with my job as a bank employee and my family. I was a person who used to pull myself back from activities, as I doubted my skills. After being part of Malayali Veettama, I started to explore my artistic skills and utilise my calibre to the maximum. I must say that the tasks and rounds given to us in the reality show helped me regain my self-confidence.
 After winning the title, I feel empowered and have a strong willpower to accomplish anything that comes across my life.
 Another factor is that I could learn what goes behind the production of a show, its camera angles, and more. I also learned more about acting and dancing, and I guess I could do away with my camera fear as well.
 
 
 
 To all those women out there, I want to say that they should be confident in themselves. We are all beautiful souls. Also, be aware of your skills and utilise them the best. Never think that marriage means the end of your dreams. Make sure that you have the support of your husband and his family too. Family is our strength so it’s also important not to side-line our duties as a member. If I achieved something then it is because my family supported me and gave wings to my dreams. 
 
 
 
 I am the mother of a two-year-old girl, Vaidehi, and we live in Guruvayoor. She was only nine months old when I auditioned for the show. My heartfelt thanks to the director of the show, Anoop John, as he ensured that I can also take care of my baby and feed her on time, while shooting. When I had to get on the stage, my mother or mother-in-law used to take care of her. After the initial episodes, Vaidehi also became used to it. My husband Yedulal is a bank employee at Thrissur.
 
 
 
 I must say the tasks which gave me the best comments. In the marketing round, I was asked to sell methiyadi on the stage and I could give a convincing performance. Another round which was very emotional for me was Amma Manas, in which we had to surprise our mothers. The most joyous moment was when my husband performed a skit on stage, that too for the first time in his life and also got appreciated by the judges. 
 
 
 
 As I wanted to showcase something unique, I performed a rope dance and ladder dance for the final. Choreographer Rajesh, from Kollam, helped me to perform both. I was a bit scared as both required months of training, while I only had a few days’ time. I even got my leg injured in the initial try but I did not give up. Later, I attempted a stunt too, by bending an iron rod with my neck and breaking a rock laying on a bed of iron nails. Being scared of heights, I still remember how I shivered when I climbed a horizontal ladder and conquered my fear.
 
 
 
 During the marketing round, prominent hair stylist Ambika Pillai, one of the judges of the show, said that I have what it takes to be a radio jockey. So, now it is my dream to become one. I am a huge fan of actress Srinda and I also wish to act in films, like her, if I get good roles in which I can perform well.
 
