PUNE: Three engineers, including one who got married just 10 days ago, were killed and two suffered injuries after a speeding car went off the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass and plunged into one of the warehouses about 15 feet below in the early hours of Friday at Ambegaon.

 “The five car occupants, including the driver, were drunk. They had gone to purchase more liquor after their party,” said inspector   of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 A street light pole beside the bypass bent after the speeding car hit it. The vehicle also damaged a pickup truck parked along the service road and uprooted an iron structure on the premises of the warehouses. The car stopped after crashing against the wall of a warehouse.
 
 Two of the five car occupants — Nikhil Chougule (27) from   in Kolhapur and Ashitosh Yadav (29) from   in Satara district — were killed on the spot. Dhiraj Shinde (30), of Bhilwadi in Sangli district succumbed to injuries in a private hospital. Sushant Patil (25), who was driving the car, suffered severe injuries, while Digvijay Mahajan (24) escaped with minor injuries.
 
 Dhiraj was an assistant professor in a private engineering college in   and had married just 10 days ago. “His wife is still at his native place in Sangli,” a friend of Dhiraj told TOI.
 
 Assistant inspector  , who is probing the case, said the driver, Sushant, had been booked for causing death due to negligence, rash driving and driving under the influence of alcohol.
 
 Digvijay, one of the occupants of the car and the complainant in the case, said his four friends had gathered at his rented home at Narhe for a party. After their liquor stock exhausted, they decided to bring more liquor, Yadav said.
 
 They started from Digvijay’s home around 2pm on Friday in Sushant’s car for more liquor. They went till Katraj chowk in search of booze. “When they did not get liquor, they decided to return home,” Yadav said.
 
 He said Digvijay was sitting behind the driver’s seat, while Dhiraj and Ashitosh were next to him. Nikhil was sitting next to Sushant.
 
 “Digvijay stated in his complaint that Sushant was driving the car at high speed and all of them requested him to slow down,” Yadav said, adding that Sushant did not pay heed to their request.
 
 Sushant lost control of the wheel when the car reached near Ambegaon around 3.15am. The speeding vehicle swerved off the bypass.
 
 The car swerved towards the service road after crashing into the street light pole and sign boards put up by the Ambegaon Gram Panchayat. It then dashed against the pickup truck before crashing against the boundary wall of the Chandrasakha Warehouses. The car broke the wall and was in air for a few seconds. It then hit a 10-foot-long iron structure, uprooting it instantly. The car then hit the wall of a warehouse and fell down, Yadav said.
 
 Raju  , a security supervisor of factory outlet of a garment company located on the premises of the Chandrasakha Warehouses, said his two guards on the night duty saw the accident. “I reached the spot in 10 minutes after one of them informed me about it. He also informed police,” he said.
 
 Singh’s guard told him that the car plunged into the premises around 3.15am. He heard a loud thud. “The guards ran to check what had happened and saw a damaged car there. Its driver came out, but was severely injured,” he said.
 
 “Three of the five persons in the car were unconscious. One person in the back seat had suffered minor injuries. All of them were drunk. The smell of alcohol was so strong that I first thought a liquor bottle had broken inside the car,” Singh said.
 
 He said his guards and the police removed the victims from the damaged car and put them in ambulances.
 
 
 
 
 Dhiraj, one of the accident victims, was a postgraduate in mechanical engineering. “Ashitosh, an engineer, worked with a private company in Shivajinagar,” the friend of Dhiraj said. Nikhil, also an engineer, had recently joined Digvijay in his solar system fitting firm. Sushant is a tour operator.
 
