DEHRADUN: Industry bodies in Uttarakhand have hailed Union budget 2018-19 and tagged it as a ‘holistic budget’, one that would direct money in the right direction for boosting the country’s economy.
 
  According to industrialists, the budget had some excellent measures to ease the lives of the common people with emphasis on the farm sector, education, healthcare and social protection. Small and medium enterprises received a boost through tax measures as well as access to credit.
  
  Sachit Jain, deputy chairman of CII of northern region, said, “In a difficult year, the finance minister has done well to contain the fiscal deficit at 3.5% of GDP, a deviation of 0.3% from the budget estimate. The plan to move towards fiscal consolidation in the coming year would maintain macro stability and enhance investor confidence. Overall, this is a balanced and prudent budget that sets the foundation for future growth in the economy.”
  
  President of industries association of Uttarakhand,  , reiterated on the immediate need to build a good industrial policy and the re-alignment of mega policy 2015 of Uttarakhand with GST.
  
  He said, “In this budget we have a huge opportunity. Setting up defence manufacturing corridor is up for grab as we have premiere defence institutes and sufficient land. It will instantly curb migration and need for livelihood.   from industries is almost seeing a standstill phase and it needs urgent revamping.”
  
  Meanwhile, the regional director of PHD chamber of commerce and industry, Uttarakhand state chapter, Anil Taneja, said that budget is more or less in commensuration with the expectations. He lauded the budget for reducing corporate tax for companies which have a turnover of up to Rs 250 crore. This would help revive the business sentiment among the MSMEs. He added that extension of lower corporate tax rates for the medium MSME and reinforcement of the focus on agriculture market for effective market integration in the agri sector are welcome moves.
  
  Meanwhile, the state tourism sector was not much happy with the budget. Adventure tourism expert Shiv Penuli said, “It was quite disappointing that the budget had nothing on the long-awaited demands of entrepreneurs associated with the tourism sector. They had earlier demanded that tourism should be considered an industry and given subsidies to those who want to start or expand their ventures in the sector.”
  
  The sector is hopeful that Tehri will be developed as a promising destination for water sports. Dhanender Rawat, president of Uttarakhand finest outdoor association, said, “Union finance minister   has talked of developing 10 popular tourist destinations as iconic destinations of the country. We are hopeful that Tehri will emerge as one of the most promising destination for water sports tourism in the country.”
