NAGPUR: The   (NU) is set to start its first-ever online centralized admission process (CAP) for postgraduate courses offered at its 38 departments, conducted colleges and 117 affiliated colleges from June 1.

 Last year, a three-member committee led by mathematics department’s GS Khadekar had designed the offline CAP model that saw a turnaround for all the science faculty courses where seats used to remain vacant over the years despite having low fee at the campus.
 
 The NU would be starting a separate portal for these admissions and students’ facilitation centres would be opened at several colleges including the   campus. The students will have to create a login ID and password, which can be done at these centres. The NU would also be soon issuing a brochure carrying all the details of CAP process, intake capacity and course fee.
 
 There would be two CAP rounds on merit basis followed by a third, if needed, for management seats. But, only students who have registered for the first two rounds would be allowed to participate in CAP III.
 
 Besides taking complete control of PG admissions, the NU is set to regulate fee charged by affiliated colleges. Right from filling forms to taking admissions, managements/trust won’t have much say from this academic year.
 
 In the CAP, students would be able to opt from MA subjects,   and MSc. For each faculty, they will need to fill just one form and would be allowed to opt for 30 preferences. The courses are divided into four faculties — humanities, commerce and management, science and technology and interdisciplinary studies.
 
 Buoyed by the offline success, the NU administration has geared up for implementing the online CAP not just for PG courses at its departments but also at all the affiliated colleges in the last couple of months.
 
 The online CAP couldn't be started the previous year as the state government failed to come up with a plan for universities before the start of academic year. Later, the universities were asked to go ahead as per their convenience.
 
 While the NU took up the gauntlet for PG admissions through counselling, it couldn’t bring UG courses under the process. Given the sheer size of UG courses, they would be kept out of the CAP but affiliated colleges would have to follow common admission schedule just like the last time.
 
 
