Chennai: Police have picked up the man who fled after abandoning his 68-year-old father near   a few days ago.

 Gopal was left to fend for himself on Wednesday night after his son, Subramanian, 38, told him that he would be “back in two minutes”, but till midnight he did not return.
 
 Vadapalani   G Chandru, who saw Gopal during night patrol on Wednesday, came to his rescue. Chandru found him slightly uncomfortable at the new place. On being questioned, Gopal told the inspector that he was dropped off there by his son.
 
 Inquiries with Subramanian revealed that Gopal was earlier dropped off at his share trading firm in Mandaveli by his aunt, who lives in Kotturpuram.
 
 Quoting his son, police said that Gopal left his wife and three children 15 years ago and lived with another woman. Since then he did not have any contact with the family.
 
 But last Sunday, he reached his sister’s house in Kotturpuram. She then called up Subramanian and told him about his father’s arrival. Subramanian assured her to take him home on January 20. However, not willing to keep his brother with her, she dropped him off near his son’s office. In a couple of minutes, Subramanian hired a cab and decided to abandon him near some temple.
 
 He told the police that the family did not wish to take him back, as he had abandoned his two daughters and mother. However, Subramanian added that he decided to collect him in the morning and came in search of his father.
 
 Meanwhile, the cab driver contacted the inspector and narrated the sequence of events, after he came to know about the incident that was flashed in a few television channels. According to the cab driver, Subramanian told him that Gopal was an orphan and asked him to drop them off near the temple.
 
 The flower vendors near the temple told the police that Gopal was brought in a cab by a middle-aged man, who made him sit outside the temple. After pretending to accompany him for a while, the man left in a two-wheeler with his friend.
 
 
