MUMBAI: A sessions court on Thursday   a 36-year-old homemaker who was arrested in 2016 for   and   her nine-year-old   in March 2013. 

 The prosecution had claimed that the accused,  , allegedly killed her son Amay as she had received several complaints about his mischievous behaviour.
 
 Defence advocate Amin Solkar said in court that her family members, including husband and brother-in-law, did not support the prosecution’s claims that she was responsible for the death. “When it was suggested that the husband was under her undue influence as he was living with her, he told the court that Neha had been residing with her side of the family since the child’s death,” Solkar said.
 
 Solkar further said there is no evidence to connect Neha with the administration of poison to her son. “Viscera reports stated that there was poison inside the boy. The report did not mention that poison was mixed with food. Neha’s daughter who deposed in court said she had also eaten the food and left for tuitions. I submitted that there is no evidence to show administered poison and how intake of poison took place. Even that they were last seen together was totally natural as she is the mother of the child. The post-mortem report says he died of asphyxia and there is no evidence to connect the mother to it,” Solkar added.
 
 The death took place on March 30, 2013. The prosecution alleged that on that day, the victim’s father received a phone call from Neha at 4pm informing him that he was vomiting and lying motionless. It further stated that Neha told her husband to come home. The prosecution said the father and his elder brother arrived home and took the child to the hospital where he was declared dead. It further said that the post-mortem showed an injury mark on the neck. 
 
 The report of the preserved viscera showing poisoning led the cops to eventually lodge an FIR on January 21, 2016, after almost 20 months and Neha’s arrest on the same day. Cops had claimed that Neha had poisoned her son’s as he used to quarrel with his friends frequently, was mischievous and would not obey anyone. Neha was granted bail by the sessions court in June 2016.
 
 
