NAGPUR: A resident of Verma Layout,   (38) is the first woman fire engineer of India. After completing BSc from LAD College, she took admission in MBA. Wanting to get into the armed forces, she pulled herself out of the MBA course and took admission in BE in  , Mankapur, in 2002. 

 Kanhekar was the first girl student in the history of the college. She received several awards during her college life as well as a fire officer when she was employed with the   (ONGC) in Mumbai in 2006. 
 
 Kanhekar was among the 12 who were awarded Women Transforming India Awards, 2017 constituted by NITI Aayog, in partnership with MyGov and the United Nations. Now, she has been selected for the First Lady Award by the Union ministry of women and child development. The programmes was held at the   on Saturday.
 
 
 
 
 Q. You are the first woman fire engineer of India and now this honour from the central government. How does it feel?
 
 A. It is the highest award I will be receiving in the category of ‘First Ladies’. It is a very proud moment for me, my family and the fire services’ fraternity. It is a big encouragement for the women who are keen to join male-dominated fields. This award is dedicated to all my teachers who gave me opportunities without any discrimination.
 
 Q. Are you satisfied in this chosen field?
 
 A. Of course. It was my passion to join fire services and complete this prestigious course from the most-prestigious college. I have spent the best period of my studying time there. The college administration and my current employers have always encouraged me to serve in fire services with full dignity.
 
 Q. Do you think the fire department is not a male dominated field now?
 
 A. Yes. It is not a gender-based profession at all. It is only absence of policy that makes any profession gender based. It has nothing to do with ability. Some years ago, women were not allowed to fly fighter planes in Indian Air Force. But now, the policy has changed. It means women had the ability to fly fighter planes but there was no policy to employ them in that capacity. I want girls to choose the field they like and follow their dreams. There is nothing that is ‘for men only’.
 
 Q. Do you think more women should work in fire department and fields like natural/state disaster rescue forces?
 
 A. It has already started happening. Many girls taken admissions in new courses at National Fire Service College. Ninety seven fire women joined Mumbai fire brigade recently.
 
 Q. What are the hurdles or constraints while working in the fire department, especially because you are the only woman?
 
 A. I did not face any hurdle. If your goal is set, all hurdles become invisible. 
 
 Q. What advantages do you see for women in fire department?
 
 A. There is no special advantage as such. I believe in 50-50 equality. As much as it is a men’s field today, it will be a women’s arena too. And the generally used ‘fireman’ term will be corrected to ‘fireperson’ soon.
 
 Q. Why made you opt BE in fire service?
 
 A. While doing BSc from LAD college, I was in NCC air wing. At that time, I dreamt of donning a uniform, so I was trying for Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB). I got to know about the National Fire Service College and enrolled to get into the prestigious uniform which serves the nation in a different manner. I did not aspire to become a fire engineer at all. It was my love to see myself in a uniform that took me to National Fire Service College.
 
 Q. What problems did you have to face while studying?
 
 A. Absolutely none.
 
 Q. Do you have plans to work or take up some developmental initiatives in Nagpur (hometown)?
 
 A. Yes, but I have not decided on anything.
 
 Q. What is your opinion on rising incidents of fire in commercial and residential structures across the state?
 
 A. It is very unfortunate that every other day we are receiving news of major fire from all over India. This is generally due to lack of regular maintenance of active and passive fire systems. As a responsible citizen, one must think that safety is everybody’s job. Everyone should be aware of fire escape routes, participate in mock drills along with kids.
 
 Q. What are your suggestions for the welfare and development of fire department in India?
 
 A. Separate women facilities should be incorporated in existing fire stations/offices as women are gradually entering the field. This is the fundamental need. Also, awareness programmes should be taken so that more women enter this dynamic field.
 
 Q. What is your next goal?
 
 A. Right now I am very satisfied working with ONGC as our management is giving me good exposure as much as my male colleagues. I would definitely like to serve any state fire service in future.
 
 
