BENGALURU: Scrapping the  , restoring the full powers of the Lokayukta, enacting a   Whistleblower Act, setting up a 24x7 anticorruption helpline and constituting a task force within a month of assuming office to end sand, land and mining mafias – the battle against corruption was one of the main themes of the BJP manifesto released on Friday.

 
 Titled ‘Namma Karnatakakke Namma Vachana’ (Our Promise to Our Karnataka), the 60-page manifesto was unveiled by BJP’s chief ministerial candidate BS Yeddyurappa. The “realistic” manifesto would swing 2-3% of the votes in favour of the party, he said. The manifesto, which BJP claims to have crowd-sourced, carried allocations alongside proposed policies, giving it the feel of a budget.
 
 The anti-corruption helpline, the party said, would function directly under the chief minister’s office so that complaints could be heard and redressed immediately. The whistleblower law, it said, was aimed at those who dared to expose corruption.
 
  
  
 
 The promises come against the backdrop of the saffron party fending off charges of shielding the corrupt, having given tickets to kin, aides and loyalists of G Janardhana Reddy of Ballari who is accused of illegal mining. The party’s critics have also pointed to Yeddyurappa’s resignation over corruption charges during his earlier stint.
 
 Alongside corruption, the manifesto stressed social welfare schemes, promising Mukhya Mantri Annapoorna Canteens on the lines of the existing Indira Canteens to provide food at subsidised rates for urban poor. Three canteens in each district headquarters and one in every each taluk headquarters have been planned. There is no mention on whether Indira Canteens will be renamed.
 
 The manifesto also promised food security for all through Annadasoha scheme on the lines of existing Anna Bhagya programme of Siddaramaiah government.
 
 
 
 
 For Bengaluru, BJP promised to extend the Metro to all urban areas of the Bengaluru Metropolitan Region in a phased manner. The party has also proposed to expand the existing Purple Line till Hoskote bus terminus on one side and Bidadi bus terminus on the other. Similarly, the Green Line will be extended till Kanakapura bus terminus on one side and Anjanapura on the other.
 
 The party has promised to pass a new law – Nava Bengaluru Act – to cater to the unique needs of Bengaluru. The party had made a similar promise in the previous election too.
 
 On law and order, BJP promised to make all efforts to set up an office of the National Investigation Agency in   to curb the increasing number of crimes. The party also promised to recommend for banning PFI and KFD which, according to BJP, indulged in promoting communal hostility.
 
 
 
  president   called BJP’s manifesto a “poorly crafted fantasy built around a weak plot” and asked voters not to waste their time on it. Taking to Twitter, Gandhi gave the BJP’s poll document a “1/5 rating”. In an elaborate tweet, he said, “New Book Review! The BJP Karnataka Manifesto, inspired by  , is a poorly crafted fantasy built around a weak plot, that has nothing unique to offer voters. If you’ve read the Congress Manifesto, don’t waste your time on this one. “Rating: 1/5 ? Recommendation: Avoid,” he said. The Congress manifesto, released on April 27, promised to spend Rs 1.25 lakh crore on irrigation while BJP has promised Rs 1.5 lakh crore.
 
 
