MYSURU: Emphasising the principles of peace and harmony that every religion preached, chief minister   on Thursday warned against mixing religion with politics.

 Siddaramaiah, who participated in the valedictory of the Suttur Jathre, invoked the words of Kuvempu as he exhorted people to aspire to become ‘Vishwamanavas’. “Birth is unfortunate but death is certain, and we have to lead a peaceful and dignified life. For this, we need to practice good habits. When we were young, elders took us to these jathres, which were for a for social integration. Rashtrakavi Kuvempu mentioned that each child is born a Vishwamanava, but one’s attitude changes gradually as one grows up. If we become Vishwamanava, our lives will become meaningful, and turn into models for the society,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 Pointing to the danger that some outfits posed to the unity of the society, the CM said, “Politics should not be mixed with religion. No religion preaches anything bad. They all call on people to be good. In life, let us not hate anyone, but learn to love each other.”
 
 Expressing his gratitude to the people, Siddaramaiah said, “It is because of you that I have become the CM. Without your blessing, I would not have achieved what I have. I am really happy that I have managed to fulfill most of the promises I made during the elections.” Siddaramaiah was elected to the assembly from Varuna constituency, which also covers Suttur.
 
 The CM said that the society must grow horizontally, wherein every citizen progresses, and not vertically, in which case one surges ahead by sitting atop another individual. “People must be careful since there are groups that are looking to divide the society vertically,” he said.
 
 Siddaramaiah said that individuals who believed in humanity were equivalent to God. “We should cultivate scientific thinking among people. Blind beliefs continue to have an adverse effect on the state, and keeping this in mind, the government decided to come out with the Karnataka Prevention and Eradication of inhuman Evil Practices and Black Magic Bill,” he said.
 
 1.80 lakh free laptops to be distributed
 
 Siddaramaiah on Thursday announced that as many as 1.80 lakh laptops would be distributed to those students who had either cleared their II PUC exams or those who had joined diploma courses. “Knowledge should be equally distributed to all irrespective of caste, community or religion,” he said.
 
 ‘Suttur Jathre unique’
 
 Although there are several jathres held across the state, the one in Suttur is different insofar as being informative, said Mysuru district in-charge HC Mahadevappa. “From students to farmers, visitors to the jathre can gain knowledge since there are various exhibitions,” he said.
 
 Ministers HK Patil, Tanveer Sait, Shankar Patil too appreciated Suttur Seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swamiji for his uniqueness in arranging Jathre. Minister  , MLC Thara was also present. 
 
 
