This is the perfect time to give your home a facelift. Floral prints to tropical cool tiles – here’s presenting a list of trendy summer decor ideas.

 
 Mix it up – from ikats with polka dots, to stripes with zig-zags. This summer is about breaking the rules. Mixing patterns is about using more than one pattern in one room. Use a combination of stripes, solids and subtle florals. Interior designer Adetee Sawhaney says, “Florals can also look good with other geometric patterns and checks and polka dots if they’re in the same colour or hue. Do show restraint while using mixed patterns as you don’t want it to be an assault on your senses.” 
 
 
 
 A common floor tile choice, people are now using it for walls, as well. Terrazzo-inspired patterns have once again come to the forefront of modern design, thanks in part to a Memphis-Milano revival, also known as New Memphis. These days terrazzo is made with chips of marble, quartz, granite, or even glass set into a matrix of concrete or epoxy resin. According to Pinterest, there’s been a 48 per cent increase in people saving terrazzo on their boards.
 
 
 Concrete is the next big thing in 2018 in decor and interior design. Interior designer Chandni Nath Israni says, “This year, we are bringing concrete indoors and giving it lot of texturing.” Concrete walls are a great way to make a style statement but it’s best to stick to a singular accent wall. 
 
 
 The softness of velvet adds luxury to the contemporary setting. Usually a winter fabric, this summer is also all about velvet. The use of velvet in decor adds shine to your home. Ditch pleather/leather for velvet in pastel colours and lighter variants. A colourful velvet   piece brings sophistication in the right measure. Lift the vibe of your home with a velvet statement chair or couch. 
  
 
 
 This has emerged as the new word in decor circles – where we fix things rather than throw them out. That old sofa? Fix it and upgrade it, but don’t throw it out. The focus is on longevity, when it comes to furniture. Restore things, give them the right finish, make them trendy by reupholstering so that it won’t fall to pieces. 
 
 
 The mood this year is modern opulence with simplicity – think dusted gold contrasting with dark wood work and tarnished metallic finishes. You can start by introducing trendy oversized coffee-tables and chairs, that highlight a corner of your home.
 
 
 Synthetics and plastics have come into our house. From fixtures to finishes – the look and feel is more plastic, less organic. It’s time to bring in the natural materials back into your house. Woven artefacts are huge in summer 2018. Choose statement pieces such as baskets, trays and bags in a variety of patterns and colours.
  
 
 The butterfly design is hot this season. From wallpaper to rugs, butterfly pattern is trendy and super cute. Hang these over your couch, your bed or in the lobby to add a bit of nature to your space. Try to brighten your living room with a beautiful butterfly-printed rug in shades of red and black. A rainbow butterfly wallpaper can glamorise your kitchen.
 
