AHMEDABAD: As many as 8,500   have been received by the state government and refunds to the tune of Rs 950 crore have so far been given to  , said commissioner of state tax, Gujarat government, PD Vaghela on Wednesday.

 “We have started providing GST refunds manually. As far as Gujarat is concerned, applications for refunds worth Rs 1,250 crore were received, of which Rs 950 crore have been processed and refunded,” he said while addressing a programme at   (GCCI) in the city. The processing of remaining amount is under way.
 
 The state tax department has received 8,500 online applications claiming refunds of State Goods and   (GST) as on as on February 4. “Out of this, 5,600 applications pertain to refunds of penalty, which was waived off by the government. The amount involved in these applications is just Rs 69 crore,” said Vaghela.
 
 Stating that the government has started providing refunds manually and business community is also required to submit application in physical form to claim the refunds Vaghela said, “As against the total number of online applications, only 1,300-1,400 physical applications have so far been submitted. I request those concerned to provide physical applications for faster processing of the refunds.”
 
 “As far as IGST refunds on exports is concerned, these refunds are provided by the customs department and not by the state tax department. However, these refunds are also being processed. And, the situation will improve substantially over the next 10 days,” he said.
 
 On E-way bill, Vaghela said that the central government has deferred the implementation of e-way for inter-state transportation of goods and has not specified any date for resuming the implementation. “The announcement could take 10 days or 20 days. For intra-state (within the state), e-way bill rollout in Gujarat has been postponed till February 20. We will synchronize the implementations as and when central government announces new date for rollout of inter-state e-way bill,” he said.
 
 
