CHENNAI: Police have arrested an autorickshaw driver and his wife’s mother and brother for the murder of the woman’s lover at a meeting of the couple in Nandambakkam on Wednesday morning.

 Investigators said the trio also set upon the woman, leaving her with severe injuries to the head.
 
 The victim, police said, had been identified as  , 35, a resident of Ashok Nagar. Police said he was a childhood friend of  , 28, also a resident of   and the wife of Murali, 31, an autorickshaw driver.
 
 Murali had in recent months grown suspicious of Shobana’s behaviour, after he found that she had been frequently making calls and sending messages to a particular number, an investigating officer said.
 
 “Shobana also started to go out for a morning walk every day, which was unusual for her, and would return home late,” the officer said. “When Murali confronted Shobana about about her strange behaviour a couple of weeks ago, she denied any wrongdoing.”
 
 Murali informed his mother-in-law   and brother-in-law  , who warned Shobana that her husband had become suspicious about her cellphone use and her sudden penchant for morning walks, the officer said. Shobana apparently paid no heed.
 
 “When Shobana left home as usual on Wednesday morning, Murali followed her in his autorickshaw,” the officer said. “Murali took his mother-in-law and brotherin-law along with him. They spotted Shobana getting on Vishwanathan’s bike and followed the pair to a playground in Nandambakkam.”
 
 When Murali saw Shobana and Vishwanathan chatting, he was infuriated. He screamed at them and, before they could react, picked up a log from nearby and attacked them savagely.
 
 “Murali’s brother-in-law and mother-in-law joined him and the three of them thrashed the pair,” the officer said. “Leaving Vishwanathan and Shobana with severe injuries, Murali and his in-laws went to the Guindy police station and confessed to the attack.”
 
 The Nandambakkam police, informed about the case, rushed to the spot. They found Vishwanathan dead and Shobana seriously injured.
 
 Shobana is receiving treatment at Chromepet Government Hospital. Her condition is stable.
 
 Vishwanathan, police said, was a divorcee who lived with his mother in Ashok Nagar. He worked with a private company in Meenambakkam.
 
 Police arrested Murali, Vasantha and Kannan for murder. A court remanded them in judicial custody.
 
