 I hope that this passion and celebration doesn’t get limited to one day. Every day is a day for women, who are the focal point of our society and we should celebrate them throughout the year,” said  , Minister of Textiles and Information and Broadcasting, while giving a speech on International Women’s Day at Shakti Parv. The three-day event organised at the   for the Arts (IGNCA) saw a multi-style dance production by Bharatanatyam dancer  . The act included all the eight classical dance forms. It also integrated yoga, meditation and martial arts in a holistic fashion.
 
  
  
 
  
  A kathakali performance at the event
 
  
 While addressing the audience, Smriti said, “When people talk about power, they often talk about the empowered, educated woman, but they forget the power of the simple woman who lives in a village.” The minister then went on to narrate the story of a woman from rural Punjab, who tried to kill her third daughter due to pressure from her in-laws, but after one failed attempt, realised her mistake and decided to fight against her husband and in-laws to save her daughter. 
 
  She added, “Not all of us are fortunate enough to be able to give a speech, but we all have faced obstacles in our life and have cried while successfully overcoming them. Today is our day to smile and I want to congratulate all the women for their extraordinary journeys.”
 
  
  Pratibha Prahlad
 
  
 Talking about the act, Pratibha said, “Today’s act depicted the divine feminine force of ten tantric goddesses. It showed how feminine energy is superior to masculine energy. We have included dance forms from across the country to show how unified we are as a nation, irrespective of out cultural differences.”
 
  
  Celebrating nari shakti
 
  Dr  , Member Secretary of IGNCA, said, “This day reminds us of the strength of womanhood in our society. From artists, scholars and social workers, women from different walks of life narrated their stories at the event.   awardees Sindhutai Sapkal and Urmila Apte also participated in the event.”
 
  
  Odissi dance was also performed at the event
 
  
  
 
  
  Kathak dance performed by   and Rahul Pawar
 
 
 --Vibha.Maru@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
