BENGALURU: An increasing number of tipsy passengers on  , given that   are available till 11pm, have become a headache for security staff.
 
 There have been several instances of   causing a nuisance, particularly at night. On Thursday night, for instance, a drunk passenger got into an argument with security staff at Attiguppe Metro station on the East-West corridor after which they stopped him from boarding the train.
 
 The man also questioned Metro staff for stopping him from boarding the train and insisted they show him the rule book which prohibits drunk people from travelling. Security staff, unaware of the rules, had to call senior officials before they stopped him from boarding the train.
 
  ( ) security staff say this is not an isolated incident. With Bengaluru Traffic Police intensifying vehicle checks at night and cab and auto drivers refusing to ferry drunk passengers, many tipsy persons, particularly from MG Road and Indiranagar stations, bank on the Metro.
 
 “Some drunk passengers can barely stand. Some even throw up on the train, inconveniencing other passengers and cleaning staff. We politely tell them not to travel on the Metro but they argue with us,” said a BMRCL security staff.
 
 Many women passengers also complain about drunk passengers. “Recently, I was travelling on the Metro and I couldn’t bear the smell. But nobody stopped him,” said Anita R, a passenger.
 
 No alcometers yet
 
 When contacted, BMRCL managing director Mahendra Jain said, “The Metro Railway Act 2002 prohibits inebriated persons from travelling on the train. This rule is enforced to avoid nuisance to fellow commuters. This doesn’t mean that persons who have had a drink will not be allowed to travel. If security staff notices that a drunk person is unsteady, they’re within their rights to stop them from entering the station,” he said.
 
 “Section 59 allows the MRA 2002 to act against people accused of drunken behaviour and levy a fine of Rs 500 and also empowers security staff to prevent entry into the station or prevent further travel of the commuter, if he has already boarded the train,” he added.
 
 In Delhi Metro stations, alcometers are provided to security staff to detect alcohol consumption of passengers by analysing their breath. However, BMRCL has not provided alcometers to Metro staff. 
 
  
  
 
 
