Visakhapatnam: ‘Love Vizag’ movement took centre stage in social media with the roll out of the Swachh Survekshan 2018 on Thursday. Even though there has been no clarity on when the survey team will land in the port city for ‘direct observation’, netizens have started submitting their feedback through various means.

 As the survey dedicates 1,400 marks (35%) on citizens’ feedback out of the total 4,000 marks, netizens are requesting their friends and other Vizagites to provide feedback through the Swachhata app, through a missed call to 1969 toll free number, or submitting the feedback form on the Swachh Survekshan website. They are also actively filling and forwarding the feedback forms in various WhatsApp groups, calling it ‘Love Vizag’ movement. Monish Row, president of the Visakhapatnam Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said: “The third rank of the city in Swachh Survekshan 2017 has propelled the city’s fame on all fronts, including business, tourism, infrastructure and others. It spurred curiosity among investors about the better liveability of the city. We request Vizagities to take a few minutes to participate in the survey. While submitting the feedback, use the pin code 530001.”
 
 Swachh Bharat ambassador, Dr Visweswara Rao P, said the competition would be tight as all cities would be vying to get the top rank. “Every city will put all efforts to score the highest in the survey, including Visakhapatnam. Given that citizen feedback is an integral part of the survey this time, it is our responsibility to participate in the survey wholeheartedly,” said Visveswara Rao.
 
 Uday Shirname, president of AP Federation of Residents Welfare Associations and Swachh Bharat ambassador, said it took him only three minutes to fill the feedback on the Swachh Survekshan website (www.swachhsurvekshan2018.org/CitizenFeedback). “It is for our city, let’s do it and put it on top,” said Shirname. However, the app needs to be pushed among the people as the city is ranked ninth on the ‘dynamic ranking of cities based on usage of app’ — among cities with a population of over 10 lakh as on Thursday. The city’s score on this parameter is limited to 80,160 when of Gwalior, which is in first place, has scored over 1.53 lakh.
 
 
