KOLKATA:  , but the   is making their  .   do take precautionary measures — draping them in woollies or treating them to warm milk — but that may not be enough,  

 According to vets, dogs should be administered deworming medicines and parvovirus vaccine before the winter. “Parvovirus is a viral illness that affects dogs mainly in winter and can prove fatal in some cases. So it is better to administer the vaccine before the onset of winter. Pups and older dogs are susceptible to various ailments like arthritis when mercury dips,” said DN Banerjee, a veterinary consultant with the West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences.
 
 Vets also advised owners to keep replenishing drinking water every day and make sure that they gulp some water every few hours. “Like humans, even dogs tend to drink less water during winter which may dehydrate them. Do brush the scalp every day to improve blood circulations to keep them warm. If it is too cold, avoid them bathing directly under the water and opt for sponge bath,” said Subhajit Ghosh, owner of Kolkata Puppy Center and Vom Rishow Rottweiler Kennel.
 
 The dip in the mercury level has spawned a separate segment of pet couture, which has interestingly led many owners to remark that their   command more attention than them on the streets. So you have labradors in trendy colourful T-shirts, pugs in woollen knits and golden retrievers in onesies.
 
 The chill in the weather has brought out the warmth in several Good Samaritans who are doing their bit in taking care of the strays. Debangana Roy, a resident of Lake Town, has been feeding warm milk and providing jute sacks to the dogs to sleep on. “We let some of the strays into our garage at night since it is very cold outside,” said Roy, a homemaker. 
 
 Lower temperature can be particularly harsh on the avians. Many species need special care to stay protected. “We shift the cage inside the room after sunset and cover it properly so that the birds don’t feel very cold. We also place a lit incandescent bulb near the cage sometimes to keep the birds warm,” said Nandini Mitra, a resident of Amherst Street.
 
 
