NEW DELHI: A foreign player has expressed interest in acquiring 49% of soon-to-be-privatised  . Aviation secretary R N Choubey told TOI this company has given an “unsolicited expression of interest for AI’s airline arm.”

 While the identity of this player and whether it is an airline is not being revealed at the moment,   (SIA) is among the foreign players that are looking at AI’s disinvestment process with interest. Its JV airline with Tatas, Vistara, has an “open mind” for AI if it makes business sense. “SIA is very keen on AI,” said a person in the know.
 
  
  
 
  is the other global biggie that wants to start a domestic carrier in India and has for long wanted to pick up a stake in IndiGo. Incidentally IndiGo has given a formal expression of interest for AI’s airline arm.
 
 “As of now it will not be possible to say who this foreign player is and whether it is a foreign airline or some other company. We need to check with them if they are okay with their identity being revealed at this stage,” said a senior ministry official.
 
 However it is likely that the foreign player is an airline as government had earlier this month allowed foreign airlines to invest up to 49% in Air India, with the condition that AI’s substantial ownership and control (SOEC) remains with the Indian partner and Indian nationals.
 
 Sources say at the moment, Tata-SIA and IndiGo are the main contenders for AI’s airline arm. Jet with its international partners like Air France-KLM is waiting for the fine print of what the government offers in AI divestment.
 
 “Qatar Airways’ preferred partner airline in India is IndiGo but the latter is adequate funded and has not said yes to the former’s offer to pick up a stake in it. Qatar is facing its own issues with neighbours and India has not been given enhanced its flying rights. So as of now, the likelihood of Qatar Airways coming forward for AI are not too high,” said an industry insider.
 
 The government has decided to sell AI and   together, while the ground handling, MRO and Alliance Air (regional airline arm) will be sold as separate companies. Apart from almost 28,000 employees, AI has accumulated debt-cum-losses of over Rs 50,000 crore, a figure that may be as high as Rs 70,000 crore.
 
 The sale is expected to be completed by the end of this year, before preparations for the next general election begins in full swing. Successfully selling off AI — long seen a drain on the exchequer — will be one of the biggest reform moves pulled off by the Modi government.
 
 Even after being sold off, AI’s airline arm will continue to be substantially owned and controlled by the Indian partner. The SOEC clause means that foreign airlines have up to 49% stake in a JV Indian carrier with the Indian partner having at least 51% stake in it. This model is followed by both the Tata JV airlines where Singapore Airlines and AirAsia Berhad have 49% stake in Vistara and AirAsia India, respectively.
 
 The   says that an airline’s SOEC should be with the nationals of a country if such an airline wishes to fly out of that country. The issue of SOEC being with Indians arises at two times — issuing license and later giving bilateral rights that India has to its airline for flying abroad.
  
 
