CHANDIGARH: The department of laws,  , will be celebrating 129 years of its establishment by organizing its first national  , ‘Droit Melange 2018” on January 31 and February 1. The two-day event aims at exposing the students to the practicalities of the legal field. A total of 22 educational institutions are participating from across the country, with 180 registered participants till now out of which there are 89 outstation teams. 

 “The fest’s name, Droit Melange, refers to the right medley of curricular and co-curricular activities. The name has been chosen keeping in mind the theme of the festival, which is ‘Let’s Live Law’. Multiple cultural events have also been included in the fest to provide a platform to the students for showcasing their talents,” said chairperson Prof. Shalini Marwaha. The fest will be including eight events exclusively for law students namely, client counselling, maxim bee, law quiz and open debate, skit, slam poetry, ethnic fashion show and treasure hunt for both law and non-law students.
 
 Prof Marwaha said the inaugural ceremony shall take place at 10am in the Law Auditorium on 31st January, 2018. The chief guest for the ceremony is minister of local government, tourism, cultural affairs and museums and archives, Government Of Punjab Navjot Singh Sidhu and the guest of honour is the former member of parliament, additional solicitor general of India, and member of law commission of India Satya Pal Jain. The valedictory ceremony shall take place on February 1, 2018 at 6.30pm in the Law Auditorium. Punjab and   high court jduges Justice M M   and Justice Augustine George Masih will be present at the event. The judging panel for various events shall include sitting judges, senior advocates of Punjab and Haryana high court and other dignitaries from the academia and respective fields associated with the events. 
 
 The participating universities include University of Jammu, University of Tamil Nadu, Ambedkar Law University, Jamia Milia Islamia (New Delhi), Amity Law School (Noida), Geeta Institute of Law, Army Institute of Law and Chandigarh University among others.
 
 
