CHENNAI: Those above 60 don’t have to worry about long queues at state-run hospitals, jostle with youngsters, and be embarrassed about taking longer time to discuss their health issues with the doctor. The health department is planning to establish geriatric out-patient clinics across all government hospitals.

 
 The government is also training nurses for home and palliative care, so care givers in the family can be trained and counselled. These nurses, who will be making home visits, will be posted in 385 health blocks of the state.
 
 The nudge came from a series of studies by healthcare activists and pressure from government hospitals that are struggling to prepare for explosive growth in the numbers of high-risk elderly patients. “There is an increasing demand to care for the elderly. Their needs are different. They cannot be clubbed with the regular patients all the time,” said health minister C Vijaya Baskar. They often have multiple chronic illnesses, are expensive to treat, and may require costly   readmissions, sometimes up to a dozen times a single year, he said.
 
 Medical advancements have allowed doctors to do high-risk surgeries of heart, brain and joint in nonagenarians, not just to save their lives but also improve quality. Statistics now show that more than 30 percent of adult patients in hospital beds are 60 or older. The age pyramid for Tamil Nadu shows that those in the elderly age group, particularly 60-69 years, account for 14.3% of the population as against the all India percentage of 10.1%. On the contrary, people in the under 30 years are just 46.8% of the population compared to all India figure of 57%. “We are now at a stage where we are beginning to invert the population pyramid. We have stabilised population and brought fertility rate under control. But we are now beginning to have lesser number of younger people who can care for the elderly,” says geriatrician  .
 
 This would mean many patients prefer to stay at hospitals for a longer time or opt for hospice care because they don’t have people at home to care for them. Many who can’t afford such care are left to find for themselves, and many helplessly wait at overcrowded government hospital corridors.
 
 On Saturday, for instance, a 65-year-old construction labourer Manikkam T was waiting outside the emergency at the   for a nurse to help him change his urine bag. He was discharged more than two week ago after a surgery and has been told to use a bag for the next couple for months. “This has to be changed every day. We don’t know how to do it,” he said. 
 
  The government is planning stimulus package to support the training of nurses and community healthcare providers, “even those within the family who are on the front lines of patient care,” said health secretary  . These nurses will prepare a list of homes with chronically ill patients, he said. They will teach patient’s family to clean wounds, apply medications, change catheters and deal with tracheostomy. 
 
 “It will encourage families and boost their confidence in patient care,” he said.
 
