BOLPUR: Chief minister   did a climbdown of sorts on   rallies, relaxing her blanket ban on display of  , in an apparent deference to tradition and organisations that have been taking out rallies with “traditional” weapons to observe the festival.

 “I know of such organisations, like one in Howrah and another in Asansol, that have been taking out Ram Navami rallies with traditional weapons for the last 50 or 100 years. I will ask cops to do their homework and make a list of such organisations. Allow them because they are a part of our heritage. They have to seek permission but no new organisation should be given permission to hold rallies with weapons,” the CM said.
 
 The   interpreted the CM’s statement as a victory, with state president   announcing that he would join a Ram Navami rally on March 25 with a gada (mace). “We take it as our moral victory. We have been saying that governments cannot prevent us from celebrating our heritage. It is good that the CM has conceded this point. Her party, too, is observing Ram Navami,” he said, recalling how the administration had booked him for carrying a sword at a Ram Navami procession in Kharagpur last year.
 
 But the fine print in the CM’s statement made it clear that political parties and “some new organisations” would not be able to observe Ram Navami with display of arms. Banerjee asked the director-general of police at the administrative meeting in Birbhum on Wednesday to see that all participants take prior permission from cops before taking out rallies. “This (the relaxation) applies to a few organisations. It does not mean that political parties or some new organisations can display arms in Ram Navami rallies,” the CM said.
 
 Taking the cue, state director-general of police Surajit Kar Purakayastha informed the CM that police and civic volunteers were taking public help to pre-empt tension in pockets and to identify those posting inflammatory messages on social media. “We are getting help from the public,” he said.
 
 The CM then cited examples of groups trying to foment communal tension by throwing pieces of meat inside temples and mosques. “Take strong action against such efforts. I will also ask the media to give advance information because sometimes they come to know about these things before the information reaches the government. Persons who give the right information will be rewarded,” Banerjee said.
 
 
