RAIPUR: Promising for 100 percent electrify the last village of   by June-July, Chhattisgarh chief minister   on the last day of 20-day long   Abhiyan said that this   election, he targets for first division marks by securing 65 seats unlike past three polls. 

 Chief minister Raman Singh said that three-phased Loksuraj   that began from January, came to an end on March 31 was like ground reporting for him where he gets first hand information from citizens about their need, complaints and expectations. 
 
 Addressing the media in state capital on Saturday, Singh ensured that when electricity reaches to 5.6 lakh remaining homes by June or July, Chhattisgarh would become 100% electrified state. Replying to a question, CM said that after seeing the response from public, "I can now target for first division by securing 65 seats while in past three elections we achieved second division by securing 49 seats. After Loksuraj, I plan to conduct extensive 'Vikas Yatra' from May which would be extended till elections and reach out to people across the state."
 
 Speaking about the wave of change in minds of Chhattisgarh's people, CM said, "By interacting to the villagers in remote areas during the state wide campaign, Singh said that there was a change in air now as people now have more demands than complains and the standard of their expectations has incredibly raised high. Now, they don't demand for schools, ration, electricity or roads, in stead the biggest demand coming from villages in mobile and data connectivity."
 
 Calling it one of the most important campaigns of government that brought tremendous public response, has urged the government come up with several beneficial schemes for people.
 
 While many of the issues were resolved on the spot by CM and his team during the campaign, Singh said that though there were few districts found lagging behind in terms of progress and developments, the concerned officers have been given deadline for three months to achieve desired targets and implement beneficiary schemes extensively. 
 
 CM said that after initiating the people's campaign as Gram Suraj limited to villages in 2005, we extended it to Nagar Suraj, extending it to urban areas and then massive Lok Suraj which is state-wide. 
 
 It is the biggest campaign of the country for social audit and on-field review of scheme. Chief Minister said- in this campaign, Chief Secretary and In-charge Secretaries, along with state-level, district-level, tehsil, block and gram panchayat-level officials and employees have also made commendable contribution. 
 
 Overall, 30lakh applications were received during the three-phased campaign and CM has assured to dispose off all of them by APril-May.
 
 Chief Minister paid surprise visit to seven villages via helicopter and interacted with villagers at chaupal. He also attended 25 redressal camps and made several announcements development of villages. He chaired joint review meetings in 12 district headquarters for review of development works of 27 districts.
 
