PUNE: Beleaguered developer DS  , also known as  , announced a ‘crowd funding’ plan for raising funds through voluntary donations or contributions by his well-wishers and common people to raise capital for overcoming the financial crisis faced by his group of companies. 

 At a press conference called in his office on JM Road on Thursday, DSK was accompanied by a US-returned businessman   of MyVishwa Technologies. Joglekar announced an internet-based social networking platform ‘Global Setu Foundation’, which will raise money via membership and contribute the generated revenue to DSK’s ‘crowd funding’ plan.
 
 
  
 
 Kulkarni was, however, at pains explaining how he plans to convince the donors/contributors for the ‘crowd funding’ plan at a time when he is facing all sorts of legal trouble and investigation over alleged cheating of several depositors by not repaying their deposits and interest money. He insisted that he may have run out of the working capital required for running day-to-day business affairs, but his overall financial position vis-a-vis immovable assets remains strong. 
 
 “I won’t comment on matters that are sub-judice,” he said in reference to his anticipatory bail plea pending before the Bombay high court. “All I can say is that my hands are tied and I am being asked to run. Still, I can’t be expected to sit idle and do nothing for raising working capital and repaying money to the depositors and also completing construction of housing projects in which several people have bought flats,” he said. 
 
 “I don’t mind people describing this initiative in whatever terms, whether they say DSK has gone begging or whatever. The bottomline is I have to overcome the crisis and I still have many well-wishers in India and abroad who are voluntarily coming forward with contributions and have even issued cheques,” he said. “In fact, we have got more than Rs 9 lakh in donations even before the crowd funding plan is announced,” he said. 
 
 Joglekar said, “Crowd funding has been prevalent in countries like the US where the society has been coming forward to help businesses overcome their financial crisis.”
 
 Referring to the plan, Kulkarni and Joglekar said, “Donors/contributors can handover cheques of amounts they wish to contribute at DSK group’s head office in Pune or at Mumbai office or can effect online money transfers in bank accounts in Pune and the USA.”
 
 
