If you can’t stand the heat, get out of the kitchen, or so they say. True to the adage, the unforgiving nature of   has seen many leading names give up captaincy midway through the tournament after they failed to lift their teams. Here are a few who swallowed their pride...

 
 
 
 
 
 Originally named as the Icon Player for Deccan Chargers before the first season of IPL,   gave up the status in a bid to allow his team spend more at the auctions. However, the genial Hyderabadi dropped himself from the team halfway through the season after the team’s poor run.
 
 It allowed   to take over as the captain. ‘Gilly’ led the side in the next two seasons as well, and DC won the title under him in 2009.
 
 
 
 In 2014, the Sunrisers Hyderabad announced that they’d ‘relieved’   of the burden of captaincy and appointed West Indies all-rounder   as the new captain for the rest of the IPL season, hoping that the move will help Dhawan bat more freely. Sammy was included in the side and straight away thrusted into the captaincy role. Dhawan had managed only 215 runs in his first 10 outings as captain.
 
 
 
 
 While leading the Deccan Chargers in the 2012 IPL, Sri Lankan great   was enduring an ordinary run. He not only gave up the captaincy mid-stream but even dropped himself from the playing XI, making way for Australian big-hitter Cameron White to accommodate four overseas players in the XI. However, the move did not yield the desired results as Deccan Chargers could never get going in the tournament.
 
 
 
 In 2013, Mumbai Indians began on shaky note when they lost three out of their first six matches. Skipper Ricky Ponting wasn’t in the best of form. The batting great decided to step down and handed over the reins to Rohit Sharma against Kolkata Knight Riders. MI eventually went on to clinch the title under Rohit, even as Ponting kept cheering the team from the sidelines.
 
 
 
 
 Struggling at the bottom of the points table in 2016, Kings XI Punjab made a bold move by removing David Miller, who had struggled with both the bat and leadership, as the team’s captain with Murali Vijay, even as they had 10 league matches remaining.
 
 “David Miller continues to be an integral part of the team and is a very strong player of the squad,” KXIP said in a statement. Till that stage, Kings XI had won just one match out of six. Till that point, Miller had only managed to score 76 runs while Vijay had amassed 143.
 
 
