JAIPUR: The residents of   in   are demanding compensation for the losses caused due to flooding after a   in the area. It may be noted that around 300 crore litres of water flooded nearby areas after a dam constructed on Kumbharam Arya Canal Lift project in Malsisar of Jhunjhunu burst a few days back.

 “Around 70 houses got submerged in water from the dam on Saturday last week. The residents have lost their belongings kept in the houses,” said Salim Chauhan, a resident of Malsisar.
 
 He said that people must get compensation and government should properly assess the losses suffered by them.
 
 Even though the government machinery is making efforts to bring down the level of water by using pumps and trenches, still there are areas where dam’s water is causing problems.
 
 “Since Saturday, the main route - Jhunjhunu to Malsisar – is waterlogged,” said a resident of the area.
 
 Now the district administration is claiming that it would restore the traffic movement in the area from Wednesday.
 
 “Our workers are repairing the road. It is most likely that the road leading to Malsisar from Jhunjhunu will be opened for traffic,” said Dinesh Kumar Yadav, collector, Jhunjhunu.
 
 Besides, the administration will start re-assessment of loss of property in the area. “We have conducted assessment of losses in the area but people wanted that the assessment be done when the area is completely dry. They feel that the houses might develop cracks in sunlight. So, we will re-assess their losses from Thursday,” said Yadav.
 
 A resident of Jaipur has filed an appeal with the Lokayukta requesting a thorough investigation to find out if there were irregularities in the construction of Malsisar water tank made for Kumbharam lift canal. Applicant Yashvardhan Singh mentioned alleged in his appeal, “This is a case of blatant corruption and misuse of public money which resulted to a situation where lives of residents of Malsisar town were threatened and a huge monetary loss occurred to the government and general public.” 
 
 
