Chandigarh: In a comprehensive survey of the vulnerable sections of the society, the Punjab government has identified over 2 lakh people across the state who are eligible but have been left out of the 20 government   owing to various reasons. The state government has now started extending benefits of 20 welfare schemes to these 2,05,228 eligible beneficiaries, which include 59 acid attack victims.

 The verification process would be completed by the state government by February 16, and the number of left out eligible persons is likely to go substantially higher. These eligible beneficiaries were left out of welfare schemes for various reasons, including personal or political animosity with the people at the helm of affairs like village sarpanches. In addition, some of the persons became eligible for these schemes after the Congress government came to power last year and changed certain norms.
 
 Out of the identified people, the state government has found highest number of 53,097 persons eligible for benefits under the MGNREGA, 32,354 were not getting benefits of Atta Dal scheme and 30,968 were eligible for social welfare pension including the old age pension, widow pension and handicapped pension but not getting the benefits. As many as 18,945 households have been identified which were left out of the Swachh Bharat Mission individual house latrine scheme, 3,871 persons were left out of the shagun scheme and 3,746 households were eligible for Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Gramin) but were left out.
 
 Special principal secretary to the CM, Gurkirat Kirpal Singh, told TOI, “In the first phase of verification 2,05,228 eligible people from distressed sections susceptible to exploitation have been identified who were left out till now. As per the chief minister’s directions, benefits of 20 welfare schemes have been started to them from January 26.”
 
 It was in November last year that the Congress government had started the survey under the Mahatama Gandhi Sarbat Vikas Yojana (MGSVY) at district level for identifying poor households deprived of the benefits of government welfare schemes. The survey was completed in December after which the verification process was started and the first phase of verification was completed recently.
 
 The MGSVY is aimed to identify people mainly in rural areas of Punjab who have been left out of the welfare schemes. These include AIDS patients, drug addicts, rape victims, single girl child having no parents and acid attack victims whom the state government can help economically as well as psychologically, said Gurkirat.
 
 Former minister and SAD spokesman Daljit Singh Cheema said, “If eligible persons for welfare schemes were left out, concerned authorities at fault should be punished and they should be extended benefits. But we have ground reports that Congress government is excluding eligible beneficiaries from such schemes because of political considerations, which is wrong.”
 
 
