NAGPUR: Thanks to Akshay Kumar’s latest release, sanitary napkins are crawling into the country’s consciousness. Everyone knows who the Padman is.

 But this is the story of a Padwoman who fought for a cause that was bleeding for attention.
 
 Flashback: Year: 2012, Location: South Asian University Campus, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi. 21-year-old college student Devika Mittal, one day, saw red because of the unavailability of sanitary napkins in her college.
 
 “We were facing a lot of issues. The wash rooms were not clean, there would be no dustbins to throw used pads. But with the university being aloof from market, the major problem was finding a napkin during untimely onset of periods,” says Mittal, who is now pursuing a PhD in Sociology.
 
 So that afternoon, she walked up to the students’ welfare officer — a middle-aged man — and asked him to install a sanitary vending machine inside the college premises.
 
 Though many male celebrities today are happily clicking selfies with sanitary napkins, Mittal was shushed by the officer then, who “could not believe a girl just said the words sanitary napkins aloud”. “He flipped out as if I had asked for a condom machine,” she recalls. 
 
 The officer then asked her to write down “her needs” in a letter. That day, Devika saw the “sanitary stigma” and realized it’s not going to be an easy fight for menstrual hygiene.
 
 Deciding to take it ahead, she conducted a small survey among female students of different colleges in Delhi-NCR. “The questions ranged from condition of bathrooms, sanitary facilities and availability of pads. The results showed that hardly 20% of the surveyed colleges had vending machines but at many times, they were not functional,” says Devika.
 
 Through a letter, she shared the survey details with the   where she had interned before. “But I didn’t hear from them for a long time. When I took a follow-up, they couldn’t locate my letter,” she says.
 
 Devika’s voice was finally heard when Union minister for women and child development Maneka Gandhi made a public announcement, asking suggestions for the functioning of  . “I immediately wrote to her, mentioning that my plea went unheard. I tried to reason out why such machines are a must-have at public places,” she says.
 
 Once her complaint reached the minister’s ears, things got into action. “The NCW finally responded informing about the action taken. The commission wrote to several ministries including drinking water and sanitation and human resource development,” she says.
 
 In a landmark decision, the NCW directed chief secretaries of all states to not only conduct an audit for female sanitation but also initiate installation of sanitary napkin vending machines across all educational institutions.
 
 Devika’s determined efforts led to installation of these machines in many colleges of the country. In Maharashtra, the state higher and technical education department took serious note of the issue and instructed all colleges to install it. TOI had reported how a top college of Mumbai, three of Nagpur and two colleges in the   and Naxal-affected area in Gadchiroli gifted their girls these machines.
 
 Now, six years later, Devika feels a positive change with the issue coming in the public sphere. “Periods are still a taboo but people and movements are challenging it. While working on the implementation of NCW’s directives, many manufactures informed about a boom in the sale of vending machines,” she adds.
 
 While the issue finding a place in cinema will definitely work in its favour, Devika feels the real void, however, still is from the government’s side. “Even in this year’s budget, sanitary napkin was treated as a luxury time with a 12% GST on it. It should be treated like a necessity and find a place in every first-aid kit,” says Devika. 
 
 She adds that the government should recognize people who are producing low-cost napkins. This would be a real ‘Make In India’ for her.
 
 take as box
 
 Vending machines must in educational institutions: Maneka
 
 Praising Devika Mittal’s initiative, Union minister of women and child development Maneka Gandhi told TOI that every “educational institute having girl students should mandatorily install wending machines or at least keep a stock of napkins”. “Apart from this, disposing machines too are a must,” she said.
 
 
