MUMBAI: The trustee of a suburban school who was booked for the alleged sexual assault of a three-year-old last year compared himself to Mahatma Gandhi and   in an email addressed to one of the parents. The trustee’s self-comparison with world leaders, who had spent time in jail, has infuriated parents of the reputed school.

 ‘Imagine the young Indian minds being terrorised at the thought of meeting Mahatma Gandhi knowing that he had been in custody; imagine the plight of the young South African minds terrorised when being told about Nelson Mandela’s years in jail; imagine the young mind in our school, amused at the fact that their sir was in jail. We transform the world at the school—we do not let events shape our lives, we shape our lives and create events,” he wrote in the letter addressed to the parent.
 
 A section of parents had opposed the trustee resuming his duties at the school before completion of the trial. In the letter, the trustee, a French national, claimed that he started visiting the school only after six months of the case, during which time “the investigation was conducted in a fair manner”. He asked the parent to meet high school students, older parents who have walked the school’s journey since the beginning and have seen its achievements.
 
 The parents are now agitated that he responded to a mail addressed to the school principal and other trustees. “He is making it sound like the protesting parents are against the school, which is not the case. The school is divided on the matter. We are not even saying that he is guilty of the crime. Just as we do not have any evidence of the crime committed by him, the parents supporting him do not have any evidence of his innocence. We are just asking the school to wait till the court decides,” said a parent.
 
 “I was released from custody on bail. Do you think the court would have released me if I were to be a danger to society? Also, the school has always stated that they stand by me, knowing my integrity,” he wrote. “You are in the right place provided you use your common sense and open your eyes to the magic that surrounds you, rather than to your fears.” Many thought of the comment as an attempt to brush away parents’ concerns. 
 
 The trustee was arrested in November 2017 following an FIR filed against the trustee and a female teacher in May last year. He was released on bail in December and resumed office soon after. 
 
 On Wednesday, TOI reported on the parents’ dissent letter submitted to the zonal deputy commissioner of police.
 
 
