HYDERABAD: In an unprecedented development, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Saturday raided properties of a judicial officer for allegedly possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. Incidentally, the ACB personnel carried out the raids only after getting the green signal from the Hyderabad High Court.

 ACB officials, in an official release issued here, said so far they had recovered properties worth ?3.57 crore (document value) from judicial officer Mallampati Gandhi. The raids were still continuing till last reports came in around 10.30pm.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The ACB sleuths first raided the Warasiguda residence of Gandhi, presiding officer (judicial officer), Labour Court-I, Hyderabad, and later on the properties of his relatives houses in Hyderabad and West Godavari district in  .
 
 
 
 
 On the orders of the High Court of Judicature at Hyderabad for   and Andhra Pradesh, on March 3, a case of disproportionate assets to the known sources of income was registered against labour court presiding officer M Gandhi. Simultaneous searches were conducted at his residence and his relatives residence,” the release added.
 
 During the raids, the Anti-Corruption Bureau investigators unearthed a kilogram of gold, 4 kilogram of silver at his residence, 18 acres of agricultural land in West Godavari district, two flats — one each in Banjara Hills and DD Colony, and a three-storied building and several other properties. Apart from the gold seized at his residence, the ACB officials discovered that M Gandhi has a bank locker. They immediately went to State Bank of India, Warasiguda branch, and found gold jewellery weighing 1.5 kilogram stashed in the locker. They seized the jewellery too.
 
 The Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths claimed all the properties and valuables were bought by Gandhi between 1994 and 2018. “From its origin till registering of the case, the Hyderabad High Court was completely aware of the issue. As of now, Gandhi has not been arrested. A decision will be taken on this issue after completion of searches,” Anti-Corruption Bureau officials told STOI.
 
 In the past, the Anti-Corruption Bureau had dealt with two cases against judges. In the first case, judicial officer Janardhan from Warangal was convicted in a trap case. In another case, a judge was booked in the infamous cash-for-bail case.
 
