COIMBATORE: Activists alleged that projects to set up two   and a compound wall have been shelved after the civic body paid Rs 84 lakh to contractors way back in 2015.

 “Two biogas plants measuring 120 cubic metre each were proposed to be set up at R S Puram Boys’ Higher Secondary School. And they were to be run using the waste from the banana market on Thadagam Road,” said a corporation official.
 
 The project was, however, not taken up as it was not feasible for the corporation to lay pipelines to carry the gas from the plant to a night shelter at RS Puram and the banana market to light up the street lights.
 
 “But it was later decided to shift the plants to Vellalore dump yard,” said Sarvana Kumar, executive engineer, west zone. Corporation engineer incharge for the solid waste management at the Vellalore dump yard said the bio gas plant project was started two years ago. The plant has been running for the past six months.
 
 Activists, however, wondered how payments for a plant that was not set up were made by the corporation’s accounts department.
 
 The engineer incharge told TOI that the plants were shifted after resolutions were passed in the council. “We changed the location, but details were not updated in the paybook. We will provide resolution copy and other documents when objections are raised during the audit. This is a normal procedure,” the official said.
 
 KCP Engineers Private Limited and Vardhaan Infrastructure were paid Rs 39,11, 650 each for setting up bio gas plants at R S Puram Boys’ Higher Secondary School.
 
 In 2015, the civic body had also paid two contractors, K Mani and APR  , to set up compound walls at Sri Ram Nagar in Velallore area. TOI visited the location and spoke to several residents, who said any such construction hasn’t taken place. “The Vellalore dump yard’s compound wall that runs near the locality has never been repaired or re-constructed in the past 10 years,” said D Bharathi, a resident of Sri Ram Nagar.
 
 While Mani was paid Rs 2,72,515 to set up a compound wall at ward 99, APR Constructions got Rs 3,06,206 to build one at ward 100.
 
 Activist J Daniel, who got the pay book details from the civic body through an   application, said he was baffled to find that the corporation was paying contractors for works that were not carried out at all.
 
 “They say that they have changed the locations. But it is surprising that the details were not updated when payments were made. The corporation usually pays the contractors only after the work is completed,” he said. He has sought paybook for 2016-2018.
 
 
