KOLKATA: Five days after a five-year-old girl nearly drowned in a Tangra housing complex pool while learning to swim, TOI spoke to such societies on the safety measures they adopt to ensure quick response in similar situations.

 The mother of the child alleged that the lifeguard did not even notice her daughter struggling in the water. With new-age housing complexes adding swimming facilities as an attraction, the recent incident has raised the safety concerns in such pools.
 
  
  
 
 Licenced trainers, lifeguards, flotation devices for children, CCTV-camera monitoring are some of the measures adopted by these residential apartments for their   operations. For example, Ruchira Residency on EM Bypass ensures there are no more than 13 children in the pool at a time. Assistant secretary of the society Joy Banerjee said, “We just have one trainer. So we do not allow more than 13 children in a batch. This helps the lone trainer keep an eye on all of them.”
 
 The session for each batch lasts for 45 minutes, with two batches in the morning and three in the evening. In order to ensure that no one ventures into the pool in the absence of the trainer, the pool is locked after a session is over. The pool has a small enclosure for beginners who are not allowed into the main pool.
 
 “Ours is a big housing complex with about 1,500 families. Therefore, for the sake of beginners, who are mostly children, it is mandatory for a guardian to help the trainer keep an eye on the child,” said  , an ex-banker who lives in Genxx Valley in Joka.
 
 In the incident that happened in Active Acres in Tangra, police has booked the trainer under sections 336 (act endangering the life or personal safety of others) and 114 (abettor present when the offence is being committed) of the Indian Penal Code. The mother of the 5-year-old who lodged the complaint was not available for comment.
 
 At  , another apartment off EM Bypass, residents have the facility to use the swimming pool in the adjacent Vedre Vista club. Though there is a separate pool specially designed for children, no kid below 6 years of age is allowed in it. The guardians are required to be around when a beginner is in the pool. Safety equipment like tubes is also mandatory there. Senior manager of   that developed Upahar, Vijay Dwivedi, said, “The pool is open from 6am-9pm. There are lifeguards present at all times to keep an eye on the swimmers, specially the children. They even keep a lookout for cuts and other injuries. The pool is monitored via   cameras and is adequately lit.”
 
