The National Film Award is the highest award for actors and filmmakers in India. So naturally, being awarded one is career-defining for most in the film industry. The term ‘National Award-winner’ almost becomes a prefix for the winners. This year’s Best Supporting Actress Award winner   also discovered this, barely a day after the awards were announced. The actress, who was shooting for her upcoming film 'Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hui Hai' when she learnt of the award, recounted, “As soon as I landed on the sets the following day, everybody just said ‘Here comes the National Award winner’. They really rubbed it in. They would joke around when I had a shot, saying ‘Zara dhyan rakhna, the National Award-winner is in the frame’.   (the film’s director) made sure that I absorbed it.”

  A day before receiving the award in Delhi, when we caught up with her, the actress wasn’t her most modest self when she said she believes the honour was long due for her. “I did think it was a long time coming,” she said, adding, “Every time there was some beautiful film or work of mine that got appreciated, people said I would get a National Award. Whoever I met at the rehearsals for the award ceremony also said, ‘finally’. I’m really happy, and of course, it’s a validation, especially since it comes from the very top.”
 
  
  
 
  This has been a year of firsts for Divya. Weeks after her first National Award, she made her first appearance at the   Film Festival, as a cast member of Nandita Das’ upcoming film 'Manto'. Divya has acted in one of the short stories in the film and was quite nervous at the prospect of her ‘red carpet debut’ at Cannes. A National Award and debut at Cannes – has 2018 been the year when Divya’s dreams as an actor have come true? She laughed and replied, “If you put it that way, yes! These are aspirations I have had for years – maybe ever since I started acting. When I was young, my nana used to say, ‘Tum jis industry mein jaa rahi ho, wahan kismet ek patte ke neeche hoti hai, uth jaaye toh mil jaati hai, naa uthe toh wahin rehti hai’. I think in 2018, that leaf has probably fallen.”
 
  Divya won the National Award for her role in ' ', a political thriller where she played an ambitious politician. Talking about the role that earned her the biggest honour of her career so far, she said, “The preparation for this role goes back to my childhood because I’m from Punjab. Very strangely, I didn’t speak Punjabi back then. I learnt a lot of my Punjabi from Gurdas Maan after I came to Mumbai and worked with him. In Punjab, my mother was a doctor and it was just observing my mother’s patients that gave me an idea of what Punjabi women are like. Those women from the villages – they were either very shy or those att (Punjabi for extreme) women, very strong. I would observe all of them and their attitude got embedded in me and that attitude and in-your-face spirit is what I brought out for this role.”
 
  
  (L) Tahir Raj Bhasin, Rasika Dugal, Divya Dutta, Namrata Goyal,  ,   and   at the premiere of Manto at Cannes 
 
  Working in Irada was already an emotional moment for the actress as it was the first project she took on after the death of her mother, who passed away in January 2016. “My mother was the biggest influence in my life. I was the most connected to her. I didn’t know what to do after she wasn’t there, except that work was the only solace that I had. 'Irada' was the first film I took on and I don’t know how I managed to do it because I was a zombie. Back in the hotel, it was crazy because I couldn’t be with myself. But on set, it was emotionally crazy to switch on when required,” said Divya.
 
  For the majority of her career since her breakthrough in 'Veer-Zaara' almost a decade-and-a-half ago, Divya has played roles of the chirpy, supportive, and caring woman in the supporting role. It is only of late that she has been cast in roles with varying shades of grey in them – in films like 'Iraada', 'Blackmail' and ' '. “What happens is once you have given a superhit role or a much-talked-about role in a hit film, it stays in people’s mind. So when the producers and casting directors sit for a movie with a similar role, they think of you. Your face is associated with that kind of a role because you have been there and done that. It’s a matter of perception. That is why I was cast in certain kind of roles for a long time. But there is a new crop of directors that believe in taking chances and casting against type. Ek vision chahiye kisi ki, jo aapko jo aap kar chuke hain, uske alawa kisi aur role mein dekhein. Only that opens the doors for you. In the end, an actor is just a director’s baby,” said Divya.
 
  
  
 
  Divya has lived in Delhi and often returns to the city – both for work and for personal visits. But none of her visits have been this special. “Oh, I wish I could get a National Award every time I come here,” she said with her signature laugh. “But Delhi is a special place for me, and has always been. I used to stay in Rajendra Nagar. I went to school here for some time and Delhi visits remind me of my childhood here. The greenery, the broad roads of Delhi are what I miss the most. It will sound funny but what connects me most to Delhi are those guys who stand on the road side with the thanda paani, and of course the chaat and food here. Delhi is that for me – all warmth,” she added. But despite loving the roads of the capital, Divya admitted she often gets lost here. She said, “I love driving on Delhi’s roads, but I always get lost at these roundabouts. I have lived here, but I can never find my way because one circle to the other and I’m lost.” However, there is one place that is always on Divya’s Delhi itinerary. “My favourite place is Rajpath, near India Gate. In my childhood, I used to go boating there. But now, I just go there, pick up an icecream quickly and move. That is my connect to my childhood,” the actress concluded.
 
 
