NAGPUR: Following the recent ticketing money siphoning case, the   (NMC) has introduced real-time machines in all 376 city buses. It will not only prevent frauds from taking place, the machine will also throw up live revenue data for the first time since the bus services were launched ten years ago.

 City transport manager   told TOI that 600 new ticketing machines have been provided to the   (DIMTS), which operates the service, and 500 have already been put to use.
 
 “Now, each and every transaction will be reflected in the server installed at the DIMTS office. We will also link it with the Smart City’s city operation centre which is at the NMC head office. Those buying tickets or using cash cards will be known separately. Data will also be saved in the machine’s data card. SIMs have been installed in these machines that will give its exact location,” he said.
 
 35 ex-conductors managed to misappropriate money collected through sale of tickets due to lack of facilities in the old machines. There was no provision to save transactions of cash cards. Also, data could be gathered only after the conductors returned the machines. The civic body had to always rely upon operators for knowing the revenue.
 
 Jagtap added that the machines can be linked with the common mobility card of the NMC and  . “These machines are the latest and first of its kind in the entire nation,” he said, adding that the machines were brought from a US company.
 
 A DIMTS official said that five staffers — three ticket-checkers and two from data processing unit — were sacked following the siphoning case. “It was a huge racket. Despite our efforts, we could not identify our staffers who were in truck with the conductors. We sacked five from service following dereliction in duty and fraud,” he said.
 
 Chairman of city transport committee   has demanded that an offence be registered against DIMTS and its staffers too. “I have submitted a letter to the city transport department and also Sitabuldi police to investigate the matter,” he said.
 
 
