 is around the corner and people of Agra are all geared up to celebrate the festival of colours. And this time, they are adding a dash of colour to even lip-smacking delicacies that they are preparing at home. Here's how Agrawallahs are coming up with innovative versions of traditional dishes and giving them a colourful twist.

  
  Colourful dhoklas add to the festive fervour
 
 
 
 
  The very popular dhokla has got a Holi makeover this festive season. Manju Bansal, a resident of  , tells us, "I love cooking and one of my favourite festivals is Holi. I love all the colours that surround this festival, so I thought of combining the two and came up with this dhokla recipe. The yellow layer is made up of gram flour while the other two are made from suji. I added edible colour so that one of the layer is beautiful pink."
 
  
  THREE CHEERS: Mocktails get a colourful twist ahead of Holi in Agra
 
 
 
 
  Bulbul Saxena, a young HR manager and a resident of  , wanted to add colour to the basic barfi recipe and make it Holi-ready. She says, "Holi, as everyone knows, is the festival of colours, so I thought, why not add colour to our sweet dishes as well? This time, I added two colours to my regular barfi, namely green and orange. I want to try out more multi colour barfis, they look so attractive with all the colours!" Geetika Agarwal, a resident of  , came up with the idea of a Holi-themed cake. She says, "I love baking, so when it came to baking something special, I thought about adding different colours to the different layers of cake. I segregated my batter into three portions and added desired colours to the layers. I am really happy that the cake turned out just as I had desired!"
 
  
  Bulbul Saxena is making colourful barfis at home this Holi 
 
  
 
 
  Munendra Singhal, a businessman by profession, is a passionate cook. He says, "I am planning to make multiple-coloured mocktails for my children, they love the beverages that I come up with, so this time with Holi around the corner, I decided to make some colourful drinks for them. I have tried making kiwi mojito, strawberry mojito and orange mojito."
 
  -- Manika Singhal
 
 
