Every year, during this time of the year, the sale of teddy bears, heart-shaped pillows and roses goes up. However, this is also the time when the sale of condoms register a marked increase. So, while the moral police are hell bent on re-branding   to a day dedicated to parents, the loyalty of Puneites lies with St Valentine. And they are engaging in love like never before.

 
 According to chemists in the newly developed areas of the city, the sale of condoms is particularly high around Valentine’s Day. “While the residential areas register a constant sale, areas housing young professionals and students see a rise in the percentage,” informs Vijay Chengedia, a medical shop owner. He adds that areas near colleges and IT companies also see a marked increase in   sale.
 Since the last couple of years, the Kalyaninagar area has witnessed this rise prominently. Kishor Gupta, a chemist from the area, says, “A few days before February 14, we get more number of condom buyers. Our sale goes up by almost 25 per cent.”
 
 
 
 If you have been reading about special Valentine’s packages offered by hotels, you are bound to have come across some that club a romantic dinner date with an overnight stay. According to Sandeep Oswal, who owns a medical shop on Nagar Road, the sale of condoms witnesses an increase of 40 per cent in shops located near hotels.
 Echoing the same sentiment, Rajesh Toshniwal, a shop owner from the same area, adds, “Some hotels offer stay packages during Valentine’s Day and people seeking privacy even explore the option of lodges to celebrate the day. Hence, an increase in the sale of   is imminent.”
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Buying a condom is not considered taboo anymore. Interestingly, even girls don’t shy away from   now. Oswal says, “The percentage of girls buying condoms from my shop is more than that of the boys. This is a welcome change when compared to the situation a few years ago.”
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Koregaon Park, which is said to be one of the most happening nightlife destinations in the city, has a different story to tell. The increase in sale at KP is comparatively less than that at its neighbouring Kalyaninagar. Narayan Sirvi, owner of a medical store at  , informs, “Being a residential area, the rise in sale is not exorbitant. However, people coming to this area for partying feel comfortable picking a box of condoms from shops here. Our sale goes up by 10-12 per cent around the Valentine’s Day. The sale of emergency contraceptive pills, which otherwise is quite low, also shows an increase during this time.”
 
  
  
 
 
