BHOPAL: With   admitting contempt petitions against four state governments — including   —and the Karni Sena on Thursday, hectic activities have begun in the state capital to ensure release of the film before Monday, when the petitions are slated to come up for hearing.

 While members of Bhopal Cine Association met chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to resolve the stalemate,   also appeared to soften its stand. But there’s no hope of it releasing before January 27 in view of Republic Day, say sources. 
 
 A delegation of multiplex and cinema owners, under the aegis of Central Cine Circuit Association (CCCA), met the CM at his residence in the afternoon to voice safety concerns. After the meeting, they said they are willing to screen the movie but the distributor is yet to decide on its release. They are hopeful of an amicable solution.
 
 “In view of ongoing protests, cinema hall and multiplex owners have decided to wait till normalcy is restored. We have conveyed our decision to the CM and will respect public sentiments,” said Bhopal Cinema Association secretary and CCCA member Azizuddin. “The administration’s stand is very clear. It’s is not ready for the release of the film,” said MP government spokesperson  , refusing to say what transpired at the meeting between the CM and cinema owners.
 
 Cinema owners seek security from govt to screen film
 
 The government had filed a review petition in Supreme Court but it was dismissed. Now, cinema hall owners have decided not to screen the movie in view of growing public aggression,” he said.
 
 Sources said the closed-door meeting was attended by top government and police officials. Cinema owners demanded that the government guarantee security if any of them decides to release movie, and pointed out that the distributor was not releasing the film in MP because the government is unwilling to announce lifting of the ban on the movie.
 
 The Rajput Samaj, which is spearheading the agitation, also seemed ready for rapprochement. “The film wasn’t released in MP on the scheduled date. We have made our point loud and clear. We understand that not allowing release of the film for an indefinite period is not possible, particularly when Supreme Court is involved in the matter. We have also heard that SC has issued contempt of court notice to state government and a cinema hall in either Mandla or Balaghat has released the film. We know the film will be screened, perhaps a week behind schedule,” said Deepak Chauhan, general secretary of MP Rajput Samaj, which had stalled Jodhaa Akbar for a month.
 
 CCCA president   Chaukse said: “There is so much of praise for Rajput legacy in the film that those who protested against its release must be feeling ‘stupid’ now. However, it takes time to retract once you have taken such a tough stand and therefore, it will take two-three days before the matter is sorted out.” 
 
 
