JAMSHEDPUR: As the   prepares to roll out its 2018-19 annual   in the  , the entrepreneurs of   and   have come out with a wish list of demands, a few of which they expect the government to include in the proposed budget. 

 Lauding the Raghubar Das government for bringing a visible change in the work culture of the bureaucracy, the entrepreneurs want the government to give impetus to time bound completion of infrastructure projects and better coordination between different agencies for their smooth execution. 
 
 "Time bound completion of the infrastructure projects such as construction of roads, over-bridge and land acquisition are prominent issues that we have taken up with the state government (in run up to the preparations of the 2018-19 budget)," said Santosh Khetan, Adityapur Small Industries Association (ASIA) General Secretary.
 
 "Close to 40 cases of delay in transfer of acquired land to the entrepreneur for setting up plants presently exist in Seraikela (Kharswan) district," Khetan added. 
 
 Entrepreneur Ashok Bhalotia, who is also president of Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SCCI) said, "Technical issues related to e-way billing in state GST that presently exists should be addressed in the proposed budget."
 
 Suresh Sonthalia, Jharkhand functionary of the Confederation of All Indian Traders (CAIT) , wants the state government to announce safeguard measures for the local manufacturers in the wake of the Central government's decision to allow 100 percent FDI in single brand retailing through automatic route. 
 
 "The 100 percent FDI in retail has come at a time when the state government is aggressively pursuing investment in the textile sector and unless there are sound safeguard measures, the potential investors will not be keen on opening new plants because of the fear of global brands," said Sonthalia.
 
 M L Agarwal, the Jamshedpur Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) president, demanded the increase of the annual outlay for the tourism sector.
 
 "The government should not only increase the funds allocation to the tourism sector, but it should also follow it up with excellent policy and efficient hands to execute the vision of the CM on the ground," he said. 
 
 He also added that the poor road connectivity between Jamshedpur and Ranchi continues to be an issue for the investors even after 17 years of the formation of the state. 
 
 Entrepreneur Saurabh Chaudhary said, "Matter related to frequent company gate jams by local politicians on small issues is a serious subject as this also relates to ease of doing business ecosystem, hence the government needs to look into it soon." 
 
 
