NAGPUR: The cash-strapped   ( ) has landed up in another financial irregularity in the purchase of Rs1.75 lakh worth mobile   in Central Chanda.

 Shredder is a tractor operated agricultural equipment used for cutting and shredding crop stalks to clear the field fast for next crop. But FDCM brought it to crush left over teak stumps after felling in Zaran range. The   was purchased on April 20, 2017.
 
 RTI activist Sharad Kochar says he filed RTI in September after learning about the ‘fraud’ but partial information was supplied a few days ago, after a delay five months. The FDCM has admitted that the proposal to buy shredder has not been approved and no logbook was maintained for the mobile equipment.
 
 As per FDCM rules, for purchases above Rs50,000, competent authority has to call quotations from three different agencies or traders. But divisional manager of Central Chanda, Praful Wagh brought three quotations from the same firm from where he procured the shredder.
 
 The other two quotations — one from Siddhivinayak Agencies, Nagpur, and another was of Datta Automobile. One of the quotations did not even mention phone, tax or invoice numbers. Both quotations seem to be fake as when TOI called one of the firms, it denied dealing in any such equipment.
 
 Wagh admits there was no proposal and budgetary provision for shredder but it was bought on an experimental basis with prior permission from managing director   and general manager concerned.
 
 “Our idea was to crush the stumps so that the material acts as good manure. It is true that the proposal is pending with the headquarters at Nagpur for approval. We also did not maintain any logbook for its operation,” Wagh told TOI.
 
 Yet, Wagh denied any corruption or irregularity in the deal and urged not to make an issue out of it.
 
 RTI activist Kochar says even committing major irregularity there is no action against Wagh.
 
 Kochar says since FDCM’s inception in 1974, shredder was never purchased. This is the first case and the equipment is lying idle.
 
 “Shredder is a failure in dry dedicious forest where teak stumps are hard and difficult to crush,” Kochar says.
 
 FDCM officials admit that without any budgetary provisions such machinery cannot be purchased.
 
 
