NEW DELHI: Raghubir Tiwari tried to escape the   winds laden with stench from the Yamuna by sitting outside a temple on Ring Road ahead of Kashmere Gate ISBT.   since the 1980s when he came to Delhi in search of work and became a rickshaw-puller, Tiwari who belongs to Chhapra in Bihar claims he will turn 100 on October 4. 

 Tiwari has no age proof to support his claim, but he has certainly seen many hot summers in Delhi. Like most homeless on the streets, he too is trying hard to beat the heat and the mosquitoes that swarm the night shelter at Geeta Ghat where he and others sleep. 
 
 “Kya karein garmi seh rahein hain sabki tarah,” he told TOI as he shared his daily routine. Tiwari roams   and its surroundings all day and returns late in the night to sleep at the shelter. It was 7.30pm but it was still early for Tiwari to get back to the shelter. His shelter mates say he survives on the money that people outside temples offer him out of sympathy, but for his medical needs, food and stay, the night shelter helps. Advanced age made him give up the rickshaw some six years ago. Now, he struggles to even sit on the floor and that worries him. 
 
 The   that are overcrowded in winter have much less occupancy in summer. A caretaker at the Geeta Ghat said from 200 occupants in winter, the occupancy is now down to about 60. The fans stay on but can’t beat the heat. So most people sleep outside. At Pushta, the central verges are crowded by people. The footpaths along the shelters have long queues of homeless waiting for   to offer food. 
 
 A 60-year-old man dressed in a cotton lungi retorted when this correspondent asked why he was not going to the shelter: “I am getting some air here.” For many, the gusts of wind generated by passing traffic is a source of relief. 
 
 The heat also worsens asthma cases, while cough and cold and fever cases become frequent. 
 
 Pankaj Pathak, a 26-year-old daily wager who works as a waiter at wedding parties and roadside restaurants, says the heat has hit his livelihood. “Fewer parties are held in the open, and restaurants also don’t have additional seating so getting work is difficult. So I come to the night shelter early,” Pathak said laying out his bed at 7pm. 
 
 
