VADODARA: Even as less than five days are left for   to submit the report of the grant that   government had released under the Student Start-up Innovation Policy (SSIP), the university has not taken any step to ensure that the grant does not lapse. 

 It was in October last that through a MoU which the state government had signed with  , the state government had promised Rs two crore to the varsity for promoting start-up movement at the campus.But the university officials have so far not utilised a single penny out of the first instalment of Rs 20 lakh received in October 2017 even as it is supposed to submit the report of the activities it has carried out on or before March 31. 
 
 Sunil Kahar, co-ordinator of MSU’s Start-up and  , said that receiving the grants, he had moved a proposal before the university authorities to utilize the money by organizing programmes like ‘Ideothon’ or ‘Protothon’ so that students can take benefit of the scheme.
 
 “I had written the letter seeking their permission. But I have not received a single response to my letter which is very painful as ultimately it is the students who will not get the opportunity to use the funds meant for them,” said Kahar, who has termed the university’s inaction as “political vendetta”.
 
 Kahar, who had contested in the recently concluded syndicate elections as a candidate backed by the ‘sankalan samiti’, which enjoys majority in the university’s new syndicate body, had tried to raise the issue even during Monday’s annual senate meeting. 
 
 Just after the polls, the syndicate members had appointed professor  , head of mechanical engineering department of  , as director of the   by creating the new post – above that of co-ordinator which Kahar has been holding so far. 
 
 As part of the MoU, the university is also supposed to allocate 10,000 square feet area for creating a dedicated co-working space where students can develop prototypes, work on research and innovation and conduct joint projects. “But the university officials have failed to provide even such a space. Who is to be blamed if the grants meant for students lapse because of lethargic and political vindictiveness of the authorities?” he said. 
 
 There are around 47 student start-ups including those which are at the ideation stage that have registered with the MSU centre.
 
 
