VIJAYAWADA: Students, beware! Next time you take part in   rallies in support of your   or a leader, someone else is likely making money out of your participation. 

 Supplying bikers for political rallies is now a   in the city. Most importantly, those who pool people for rallies are neither have honest intention nor clean record.
 
 This came to light recently, when the city police cracked a house burglary case. The man identified as the main perpetrator in the case was also found out to be a supplier of bikers for political rallies. The police also found out that he is not alone in the business, and many other people are earning money from the demand from politicians, and also the craze among the youth to make money.
 
 Bike rallies for any occasion have become a norm for city politicians. Participants break all rules and the roads on which the   become lawless areas. It is a common sight at any rally to see young people going berserk, revving up the engines, honking like mad, shouting and scaring fellow commuters and pedestrians.
 
 Breaking rules is not the only thing they do. Performing bike stunts with utter disregard to their personal safety as well as that of others, is a big attraction for the students. 
 
 Most of the time they do not really know for what purpose they are participating in the rally. These rallies give the youths a license to break rules and perform stunts. This comes in handy for those who want to make money by supplying bikers for rallies. The politicians, want maximum number of bikers for their rallies, which allows them ‘a show of strength’. 
 
 The man involved in Poranki house burglary had a gang of 20 people with bikes, most of them students. 
 
 He would send at least 20 people for any rally, and he would pool more bikers through his friends and connections, depending on the demand. His modus operandi is to maintain close ties with students from various colleges. They are lured with some instant benefits. More than anything, it is the thrill that pulls the students to attend such rallies. 
 
 Students are unknowingly becoming tools for middlemen to earn money.
 
