LUDHIANA: The railway budget announced by union finance minister   on Thursday in parliament has evoked a mixed response from city residents, as the ministry did not come up with any new trains passing through the city, even as he did promise modernization of stations and trains, including increasing safety standards to curb rail accidents.

 While residents were happy with the minister’s decision to re-develop 600 major stations (Ludhiana is one among them), not hike passenger fares, introduce Wi-Fi and   cameras in all major long route trains to ensure the safety of women passengers, some were upset with no announcement about new trains.   — a businessman from BRS Nagar who frequently travels to Delhi to meet his parents — said: “The decision not to run more special trains in the   route has disappointed us a little, but the keen steps towards safety and betterment of passengers bring happiness on the faces of commuters.”
 
 “Ludhiana will be developed as a word-class station in which escalators and lifts are installed for the convenience of passengers. Proper cleanliness would be maintained to overcome the issue of foul smell emanating from railway tracks. This is one of the best decisions the ministry has made in its budget for railways on Thursday,” stated Ankit Kapoor, a professor in a city college. He added: “Railway crossings across Ludhiana and Ferozepur divisions would soon be digitalized, as the railway budget has cleared the decision, and soon it will be implemented, so that accidents will come down to some extent.”
 
 Installing CCTVs cameras in all major long route trains is a decision hailed by most women, as the safety of women in late night hours has become a major issue for female commuters. Soon, escalators will be installed in the Ludhiana railway station, as the minister has proposed this in the railway budget. “Despite the fact that the central government has made ramps at public places mandatory for the benefit of physically challenged commuters, the Ludhiana railway station does not have any ramps at any place. But now, these would have to be constructed at the station, as in the budget, they have ordered its installation at the earliest at all model railway stations — including Ludhiana — across India,” said  , a shopkeeper in the old city.
 
