AHMEDABAD: Students across   began celebrating as soon as   announced that there will be no maths retest in class X, except in Delhi NCR and  , where the paper was leaked. The board also announced that retest in economics for class XII students will be held on April 25.

 Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, who had made a call on Wednesday to HRD minister  , said, “This is the best decision that the board could have taken. The board has done justice to lakhs of students who were not at fault.”
 
 “I will personally call up Javadekar and thank him for the decision,” said Chudasama adding that jubilant parents were calling him to confirm whether the news was true.
 
 Aryan Vadaria, a class X student, who was on the verge of cancelling his vacation trip to Jayalgarh, phoned up his friends to tell them they can all enjoy with free minds. “This is the most sane decision taken by CBSE. The board shouldn’t have punished lakhs of innocent students for the fault of a handful cheaters,” said Vadaria, adding, “I will finally be going on vacation to Jayalgarh, without any burden on my mind.”
 
 The mother of a class X student, Dr Reema Raval, said, “We are relieved as our children were feeling they are being punished for a crime they didn’t commit. The decision has saved lakhs of students and their parents the trouble of facing and preparing again for a mathematics paper.” She added, “The board should go all out against the people who leaked the paper.”
 
 Anay Nanavati, a class X student, felt bad for the class XII commerce students. “Justice has been served,” he said, “But the fact of the paper leak reduces our trust in the CBSE. The board should be more considerate towards those facing class XII board exams.”
 
 The father of a class XII commerce student, Dharmendra Kumar Singh, said, “The retest will put additional burden on the students. If the board could decide not to hold retest for class X students, then it could have taken the same decision for those in class XII board exams. These students will be penalized for fault of government machinery. They will have much less enthusiasm in preparing for a retest.”
 
 
