MONACO: Caster  , the two-time 800m Olympic champion, says she was born in India, in Pune to be precise. She is not referring to the place of her biological birth, of course, but the pivotal moment that saw her come of age as a middle-distance runner.

 
 The 2008 Commonwealth Youth Games that took place in Pune was where Semenya first tasted victory on the international stage, and it’s an achievement she rates higher than her two Olympic gold medals in the women’s 800m. “I rate it highest because that’s when I was born. That’s when I raised the bar for myself. My first appearance and being able to win in a big manner,” said Semenya at the Laureus World Sports Awards on Tuesday.
 
 It was a triumph that provided the three-time world champion, who hails from a rural area in South Africa, a tremendous sense of self-belief.
 
 However, her ride to the top has been anything but smooth. Her first 800m World Championship win at the 2009 meet in Berlin was marred by a gender verification test she had to undergo to determine whether she was unfairly benefitting from hyperandrogenism, a medical condition characterised by elevated levels of testosterone.
 
 Semenya is thus well placed to relate with the humiliation India’s   and  , who have also been diagnosed with hyperandrogenism, have had to endure.
 
 But to Semenya’s credit, her focus hasn’t wavered and she has now set her sights on breaking Jarmila Kratachvilova’s 35-year-old world record mark (1.53.28), even though her own personal best (1.55.16) is nearly two seconds behind the Czech.
 
 Considering Semenya is among the taller athletes in the world, does she have the right physical attributes to set a new world record?
 
 “You just need a decent time. You really don’t need to be super fast. It’s about consistency,” says the 27-year-old. “It takes a lot of hard work, you need to focus more on training, you need to focus more on being accurate. By accurate I mean consistency, to be able to run at one pace for a long time. It is highly impossible sometimes, it is not easy to train for that unless you sacrifice a season for that.”
 
 Semenya says everytime she wins, it is a vindication for her ability to run fast, long and hard.
 
 “When I cross the line I want to improve on previous races. So for me it’s about being consistent. When you check the winning streak you want to keep on getting better. That’s the goal for each and every athlete. For me it’s sweet, but it’s not easy to show emotions.”
 
