TRICHY: Revamping the administration towards achieving greater transparency and improving financial resources will be his priorities to make   the best in the country, P Manishankar, who formally took charge as the vice-chancellor of the university, said on Monday. 

 Speaking to TOI over phone, Manishankar said that preparing university for the third cycle of national assessment and accreditation council (NAAC) reaccreditation will be his immediate task.
 
 The vice-chancellor got into the business on the very first day by convening a meeting of syndicate members and university staffs soon after assuming charge at around 9 30am.
 
 “We will be coming up with the report that has to be submitted to the NAAC for reaccreditation in the next few weeks,” said Manishankar who was professor of chemistry at Alagappa University, Karaikudi. 
 
 He also expressed confidence to live up to the expectations by working on his vision for the university.
 
 “I had submitted a two-page report to the vice-chancellor search committee detailing on my vision for the university at the time of interview. I will be discussing it with the stakeholders by turning the vision document into reality,” he said.
 
 Manishankar, the UGC BSR faculty fellow was among the 241 candidates from across the country who had applied for the post of vice-chancellor. 
 
 Governor Banwarilal Purohit took the final call on Saturday after interviewing three final candidates recommended by the search committee headed by retired IAS officer  .
 
 The other two candidates were retired professor of Mathematics,  , and professor of Management, IIT Madras M Thenmozhi. 
 
 Interestingly, Manishankar’s PhD guide, S Sivasubramanian was one among the members of the search committee that nominated him name along with two others for the vice-chancellor’s post to the governor. 
 
 Manishankar was supposed to take charge only after Pongal but was asked to join at the earliest after his appointment by the governor on Saturday. 
 
 Sources from the   said that the action was to prevent any attempt by the others to approach court and prevent the new vice-chancellor from taking charge.
 
 
