GUWAHATI: As   deals with the aftermath of the setback in  , there may be an additional point on the agenda of the third meeting of the   ( ) that begins here on Sunday. 

 The meeting of the BJP-led coalition of 13 regional parties from eight northeastern states will be addressed by BJP president Amit Shah, who had earlier set a target of 21 Lok Sabha seats of the 25 in the northeast. "Seven chief ministers from states ruled by BJP and Neda constituents will attend the third meet, along with ministers, MPs and MLAs from the region. Presidents of the state units of parties will also take part," Neda convener   said.
 
 While the focus of the meeting would be on formulating a roadmap for the upcoming Lok Sabha election, the saffron party now has more problems to attend to. After it used the "single largest party" logic to strong-arm its way into staking claim on government formation in Karnataka, opposition parties in Bihar, Manipur, Goa and Nagaland turned the tables on BJP to stake claim to the government. In Manipur,   leader Okram Ibobi Singh has staked claim and in Nagaland, NPF leader TR Zeliang said he will do the same on Monday. In Meghalaya, too, Congress had emerged as the single largest party but lost out on government formation to BJP ally National People's Party.
 
 A senior BJP leader, said, "The latest developments, especially in Manipur and Nagaland, may come up during the meeting so that all Neda constituents can effectively take on the challenge from Congress and other parties." Sources said Shah was earlier scheduled to arrive here on Saturday. "But because of what went down in Karnataka, our national president will arrive here on Sunday," a BJP leader said.
 
 The primary point on the agenda - preparation for Lok Sabha election - remains unchanged. "Our president will address the Neda meeting with an eye on the Lok Sabha election," president of the party's Arunachal Pradesh unit, Tapir Gao, said. "He will guide on how to maximize our seats and further consolidate our position to make northeast Congress-mukt," another leader said.
 
 During his visit, Shah will also hold meetings with the chief ministers of BJP-ruled states and those ruled by constituents of Neda. 
 
 
