THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When the candidature of   was announced by   in the first week of March, many party leaders were sceptical. Cherian’s past performance in the constituency, Chengannur’s love for   and the perceived-acceptance of UDF candidate D   were the reasons for this worry.

 But, the gamble taken by   state leadership – which endorsed the recommendation of the district committee – proved to be a success with   romping home with a margin that surpassed even his expectations. The emphatic win means that Cherian did garner a significant number of Nair votes and a huge chunk of Ezhava votes.
 
 Even while agreeing to the fact that minority consolidation and the vertical split in Nair votes between UDF and BJP played a pivotal role in Cherian’s win in  , other elements such as the aggressive campaign focussed on development plank and the booth-based intensive campaign led by senior leaders also played its part.
 
 Cherian sought support to carry on the development initiatives launched by late KK Ramachandran Nair. With ministers promising all support to fulfil his dream, voters became pragmatic. As the district secretary of CPM and the leader of palliative care and organic farming movements in the distinct, Cherian’s administrative acumen was tested and proven.
 
 Though Pinarayi Vijayan spent only two days in Chengannur, other ministers campaigned hard till the last day. With ministers and senior leaders leading from the front, squads in all booths were active. They only spoke about the government’s fight against corruption and development initiatives which voters found credible.
 
 The LDF could disintegrate NDA at the very beginning of the campaign by assuring the tactical support of SNDP which in turn led to BDJS's non-cooperation movement. It also sealed the fate of Kerala Congress (M). The party, which was lured by CPM to the Left fold until a few weeks ago, committed a suicidal act by supporting UDF. Since LDF has closed its doors, Mani's bargaining power has eroded, the party will now have to settle for whatever the UDF offers.
 
 The result is catastrophic to UDF as both Oommen Chandy and Ramesh Chennithala led the campaign from the front. With the old guard proving ineffective, AICC president Rahul Gandhi can now infuse young blood in the leadership, an act which he has been deferring for months.
 
