CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court on Friday asked several accused named in the case related to attack on Haryana finance minister Captain Abhimanyu’s residence during the February 2016 Jat violence to approach the   court for bail.

 “The petitioners are at liberty to apply for regular bail before the trial court immediately after filing of the final report by the CBI before the trial court. The trial court shall entertain and decide the regular bail petitions of the petitioners afresh on the basis of material on record and after hearing both sides,” HC has ordered.
 
 Justice A B   passed these orders while hearing petitions filed by Sudeep Kalkal, Manoj Duhan and other accused allegedly involved in arson at Captain Abhinayu’s ancestral house. All these accused were seeking bail on the grounds that they were behind bars for over two years and CBI probe may take long time in investigation.
 
 Hearing their plea, Justice Chaudhari observed that it would be appropriate to allow the CBI to complete investigation and submit a final report in the trial court as the apex court had already fixed the deadline for the said purpose.
 
 “I am also of the opinion that keeping these petitions pending would be of no use as the final report if any would be filed in the trial court and it is thereafter the trial court would be in a better position again to consider the plea for regular bail based on such final report,” observed Justice Chaudhari, while asking the accused to approach trial court.
 
 As per the complaint in the case, several persons had attacked and set on fire the house of family of Captain   and tried to burn all the family members living there. However, they were saved by some family members and other persons present there. The rowdy crowd of agitators smashed, destructed and looted the entire kothi (house) and the articles worth crores of rupees lying there including cash, jewellery. Initially, the case was registered at Rohtak police station but later it was handed over to CBI.
 
 
