VISAKHAPATNAM: Moviegoers were turned back from cinema halls on Saturday, as the indefinite strike called by exhibitors over Virtual Print Fee (VPF) entered the second day.

 Speaking to TOI from Hyderabad, treasurer of AP Film Chamber of Commerce T Rama Satyannarayana said “The meeting which was supposed to be held with the digital service providers (DSPs) did not take place at Chennai on Saturday. So we continued the strike and it would continue on Sunday too.”
 
 It was found out that the managements of DSPs have accepted two out of their three demands.
 
 If the strike continues, many who depend on cinema halls for livelihood would suffer, said film director RV Subbu. He further said, “The strike is not related to cinema hall owners. It is related to film producers. It will have an impact on the entertainment industry and livelihood of hundreds of workers employed at cinema halls.”
 
 According to sources, nearly 150 theatres, including multiplexes in Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts in north coastal Andhra Pradesh, remained closed from Friday as the Southern Movie Producers’ Joint Action Committee called for a bandh across   India demanding that Virtual Print Fee (VPF) be reduced.
 
 “The high VPF (around Rs 15,000 per week per show) is a burden for small-scale film-makers. This will discourage non-mainstream film-makers and the people who depend on such films,” Satyannarayana added.
 
 With theatres closed, people thronged to beaches, parks and restaurants on Saturday, which is also the beginning of the weekend. 
 
 Cinema theatres in all the five south Indian states have gone on an indefinite strike from March 1 over their demand to reduce Virtual Print Fee (VPF) by Digital Service Providers (DSPs) for vernacular films. Exhibitors in Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Kerala have come together to implement the decision.
 
 Film makers had three sessions of discussion with the DSPs in February. In the last discussions held on February 23, they asked DSPs to reduce the rate by 25% on a standard charge of Rs 22,500, and across packages as well. It was at this point that the talks failed 
 
 
