 had no difficulty getting the better of   in straight sets as they stormed their way into the final of the All-India invitational   tournament organised by MB United Sports Club in memory of former volleyball player Xavier Dias at   on Saturday.
 
  Not many gave Mangalore Spikers a chance of going all the way after they took to the court without even a proper set of jerseys on the opening day. The organisers didn’t know where to look and eventually provided them with their own set of jerseys.
  
  What followed next was hard to believe as Mangalore first made short work of their rivals to push through to the last-four stage and, on Saturday, trounced Mumbai Port Trust 25-17, 25-20, 25-23 to get closer to the trophy.
  
  They will now meet the winners of the all-Goan second semifinal between KK Boys, St Cruz and MFC, Mencurem, in Sunday’s final.
  
  Mangalore looked completely at ease in the first two sets as they did not allow their rivals to get into a rhythm. They played to a plan and whatever they touched turned gold. In the first two sets, Mumbai Port Trust matched their rivals in the early stages, and although Mangalore kept enjoying a two-point lead, they were never out of the contest. Midway though, Mangalore accelerated and left their rivals behind.
  
  A similar pattern was followed in the second set as Mangalore kept their noses in front but the third set told a different story. Mumbai Port Trust, determined to take this battle down to the wire, put up a strong fight. They even took the lead in this set for the first time at 6-5 as Mangalore dropped guard and gave away easy points. Mumbai enjoyed the advantage at 14-13 and even at 20-19 but Mangalore put their experience to good use and sealed the contest at 25-23.
  
  Samprith Alwa was easily the pick of the lot for the victors as he put his height to good use. The setter was impressive too, while Riyaz Khan won plenty of admirers with his attractive play. The shortest player on the court rose to the occasion whenever needed; even with centre-blocking, he proved quite a handful.
  
  In the second semifinal, till the time of going to press, KK Boys enjoyed a two-set advantage over MFC Mencurem after the St Cruz outfit won 25-22 and 25-18. A break for a game of ‘housie’ after the first two sets meant the match would conclude well past midnight.
  
  ACTION TODAY
  
  Mangalore Spikers vs KK Boys, St Cruz/MFC, Mencurem, Murida court, Cuncolim, 8.30pm
