JODHPUR: A trial court in Jodhpur will pronounce its verdict in the rape case involving Asaram on Wednesday.

 
 Asaram has been accused of sexually exploiting a 16-year-old girl from UP’s Shahjahanpur in his Manai ashram near Jodhpur in 2013.
 
 A special courtroom has been set up inside the   (JCJ) for pronouncement of the verdict, considering the security aspects due to the huge following Asaram enjoys across the country.
 
 The Centre has directed Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana and UP to tighten security and deploy additional forces. The Shahjahanpur district administration has stepped up security around the rape survivor’s house. “We are prepared for the judgment. Arrangements have been made for the magistrate and his court staff. Asaram, his four co-accused and the defence and prosecution lawyers will remain present in the courtroom,” JCJ DIG   said.
 
  
  
 
 Fearing threat to law and order in the city from Asaram’s followers, the city police had requested the Rajasthan HC to direct the trial court to pronounce its judgment from inside the jail. After getting the HC’s nod, police have put up unprecedented security measures around the city. A 10-day prohibitory order from April 21-30 has also been issued.
 
 “We have cleared up his (Asaram’s) ashrams and asked all hotels and guest-houses to not allow any of his followers. We have been keeping an eye on bus and railway stations as well as the airport to ensure that his followers did not enter the city,” said Jodhpur DCP Amandeep Singh Kapoor.
 
 All entries to the city have been sealed and control rooms have been activated in neighbouring districts and states.
 
 
 
 Police have converted the house of the girl who was allegedly sexually assaulted by Asaram into a fortress, in the light of threats to the family. Apart from 10 armed guards, women constables and several intelligence officers are keeping an eye on activities around the house.
 
 The survivor and her family members had already decided not to visit Jodhpur due to security concerns and they have opted to stay inside the house since Tuesday. They met police officers earlier on April 20 and kept themselves away from the media. 
 
 However, such heavy security has drawn attention of people passing through the area, which threatens to reveal the identity of the survivor and her family.
 
 SP KB Singh told TOI, “We are taking no chances. No one is allowed to meet the family without verification. Local intelligence teams, Cheetah teams and police teams are keeping an eye.”
 
 
 
 Accused of rape, Asaram has a bit of history, tucked away in Ajmer, during his struggles to make a living as a youth. Before reinventing himself as a spiritual guru, he went by the name Asumal Sindhi and was a ‘tongawala’, carrying pilgrims from the railway station to Dargah Sharif. 
 
 For two years, he worked hard to make ends meet, and the few who still ply tonga from those days remember him as an ordinary person whom no one would bother giving a second thought. “It was only after he became popular as a godman that we remembered him,” says Panna Ustad, a member of the Ajmer tonga union. 
 
 Others from the Khari Kui tonga stand, where Asaram would wait for pilgrims, are amused at his destiny. As a seven-year-old, Asumal arrived in India from Pakistan’s Sindh. Initially, his family lived in Gujarat before Asumal moved to Ajmer in 1963 on an invitation from a relative.
 
 According to senior advocate Charanjeet Singh Oberoi, Asumal’s father then moved to Ajmer and began living in Khari Kui with his family. “Asumal was hard-working and wanted to earn money to help his family, which had faced poverty after Partition. He used to sit with tongawalas at Khari Kui and was often seen carrying pilgrims,” said Oberoi. 
 
