KOCHI: Expression of anger and hostility is transcending limits and a pattern of extreme aggression directed towards others is evolving in  , said experts citing the incidents in   and Malappuram.

 “This is a disturbing outcome in a society plagued with culture of discontent and communalism. This is a conscious creation and in individual situations, it could be impulsive or organized and planned as in Kevin’s case,” said senior psychiatrist Dr C J John, adding that the checks to control aggression is getting weakened in this cultural shift.
 
 “In this kind of killing, there is a disinhibition happening. If your son or daughter choses someone from a class below your dignity, some use aggression to restore honour. This is the by-product of fast-spreading communalism that is purposely propagated by a section for vested interests. Kerala, it seems, is becoming a north India slowly,” he added.
 
 The level of intolerance is on the rise and the sudden rage that is leading to these ‘honour’ killings is due to the caste system that is deeply internalized. A reaction that comes up in such a case is very spontaneous and individualised. There is very little tolerance towards certain lower caste and a particular religion. There is acceptance if the families are from forward caste and good financial background, said   from Centre for Development Studies, adding that it was different from what was happening in north India.
 
 The increase in mob attacks in Kerala reflects the total unrest that exists among individuals. “In social and religious issues, there is a rage which lies hidden. When one gets a chance, it develops into an attack. One develops a lot of aggression and it is suppressed and when some situation develops, it becomes an attack,” said Dr K S David, head,  .
 
 “We say we are an exceptional state and that we don’t think about caste, but it is there in our minds. I think there must be only 5% people here who do not think of caste, creed or religious issues. Even if it is same religion, people think of financial status. Imagine the state of this woman who knows that she is responsible for that boy’s death,” said  , head, centre for women’s studies, Calicut University.
 
