Don’t like winter? You must love   then! Basant Panchami, or Vasant Panchami, marks the end of the cold and chilling winter, marking the beginning of the much awaited spring. Yellow - the color of the spring is what everyone dresses in on this festival. This is because on this day, the fields of mustard in northern parts of India blossom and bloom. This gives a yellow hue to the mother earth and thus, men, women and children dress in this brightly color.
 
 Basant Panchami is the festival of  . All the devotees pray to her and offer yellow flowers, including marigold, and make sweets and delicacies that are yellow in colour. These include sweet kesari rice, malpua, kesari rajbhog, khichdi, boodi laddoo, kesari sheera and in  , they even make sarson ka saag and makki ki roti, adding spice to the festival.
 
 So, wondering how to wish your friends, loved ones and colleagues on this day? We have you covered. Here's a list of wishes,   statuses, messages, greetings and images that you can send to your friends on Basant Panchami.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  Let's bid adieu to harsh winters and welcome the yellow warmth of mustard flowers
 I hope that just like the yellowness blooms in the atmosphere
 Light blooms in your life
 Happy Basant Panchami!
 ...................
 
 
  
  
 
 As nature is naturally turning bright, it calls for resplendence and celebration!
 Let’s sing and make merry
 Let's dance and love
 Happy Basant Panchami!
 ...................
  
 
  
  
 
  Just like the nature is turning into bright shades, may your life turns into happy shades too
 Let's make merry and dance to the beautiful melody of nature
 Happy Basant Panchami!
 ...................
 
 
  
  
 
  Kash aapke jeevan me aaye bahut saara umang aur pyaar
 Kyunki aaj hai ye pyara tyohar
 Prarthna hai ke mata Saraswati aaye apke dwaar
 Aur kare aapki saari kaamnayein sweekar
 Karte hai hum ye prarthna har bar
 HAPPY BASANT PANCHMI!
 ...................
  
 As the beautiful day of Basant Panchami comes, I hope that it brings forth knowledge and wealth for you. May Goddess Saraswati bless your life with success, happiness, love and warmth. I hope that all your wishes come true. Happy Basant Panchami to you and your entire family!
 ...................
 
 
  
  
 
 On this Basant Panchami, I hope your life gets filled with:
 B - Bliss
 A - Awesomeness
 S - Serenity
 A - Affection
 N - Nobility
 T - Tenderness
 P - Peace
 A - Amiability
 N - Novelty
 C - Charity
 H - Honesty
 A - Adventure
 M - Money
 I - Idyllic
 ...................
 
 
  
  
 As Spring is in the air,
 Bright and fresh yellow blossoms everywhere,
 Let's celebrate the yellow festival, Basant Panchami
 Sending you lots of love and happiness on this auspicious festival
 A very happy Basant Panchami!
 
 
