It is only his second film, but the release of Raju Kannada Medium today is a proud moment for its leading man,  . Produced by Suresh Arts, the film reunites the actor with his First Rank Raju director,  , in what they say is a commercial movie that explores a very different format of storytelling. “Most love stories onscreen follow a set pattern — there is an introduction, romance, song, emotional drama and a fight, and the film ends. We have attempted to break that and followed an experimental route, which we hope will appeal to the audience,” says the actor. 

 In the film, Gurunandan is paired with three leading ladies —  ,   and   — who appear at different parts of the narrative and take the story forward. These portions transpire in different locations as well, which make the picturization visually pleasing. “My character, Raju, is a village bumpkin, who has studied in a Kannada-medium school. His early days have been shot in the   region, which also captures the exquisite greenery of the area. My character’s grown-up days transpire in Bengaluru and you see how someone from a rural setup tries to blend in with urban society. The third sequence takes places on an island, which we have shot abroad. To know the circumstances under which I land there, people will have to see the film, but I promise that the visuals of that land are nothing short of a   movie. From underwater shots to an action sequence involving a shark, there is much to look forward to in this bit,” says Gurunandan. 
 
 Overall, the actor adds, Raju Kannada Medium is a family entertainer that will appeal to audiences across age groups. “There is love, humour, drama and family sentiments, as well as a very good message about what is most important in life. At every juncture in our life, there is something that we strive to achieve. Once we get that, we move on to the next, like, for instance, you buy a small hatchback car as your first and then move on to buy a sedan, only to aspire for a luxury vehicle thereafter; it’s a never-ending cycle. But amid all this, what do you cherish most? That’s the lesson you walk out with from the theatre,” says Gurunandan.
 The music, by composer Kiran Ravindranath, is another plus point. “I love all six songs from the film, but I am partial to  , which has been picturized on Ashika and me in the rains of Malnad,” the actor signs off. 
 
