Bhopal: In another twist to a row over recruitment rules (RR) of the Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC) doctors, two of the three petitioners in a public interest litigation (PIL) filed for proper medical care of 1984 gas disaster survivors, said RR notified recently by the Union department of health & research (DHR) for BMHRC was a “fruitless exercise” since the hospital has to be ultimately merged with AIIMS, Bhopal. 

 In a letter written to their counsel Rajesh Chand ahead of petition’s hearing on February 21, Abdul Jabbar of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Mahila Udyog Sangathan (BGPMUS) and N D Jayaprakash of the Bhopal Gas Peedit Sangharsh Sahyog Samiti (BGPSSS) said forming a separate RR for BMHRC doctors was a “fruitless exercise” and the government of India should rather work on its ‘promise’ to merge the BMHRC with the AIIMS, Bhopal. On the other hand, third petitioner in the case Rachna Dhingra of Bhopal Group for Information & Action (BGIA) said they were not in favour of the much-touted AIIMS-BMHRC merger.
 
 “Please inform the court that the RR for doctors in its present form is different from the RR that is applicable in AIIMS, Bhopal. In the best interest of gas victims, the Union government should give a categorical undertaking that the process of merger of BMHRC with AIIMS, Bhopal is underway and whatever RR is applicable in AIIMS, Bhopal would ipso facto be applicable to the BMHRC as well,” said the letter written by Jabbar and Jayaprakash.
 
 Dhingra, when asked about the BGIA stand on the issue, said “At the outset we are not in favour of AIIMS-BMHRC merger, because it will take away focus from primary health needs of gas victims. The BMHRC has a different character because it was established exclusively for survivors of gas disaster, to provide them the best medical facilities and carry out research on ailments caused by exposure to the MIC. Besides, the DHR never spelled out modalities of merger, they never shared with us how the merger would take place and how the two institutions would function thereafter. I don’t think they are serious about it, making promises and giving assurances is a different thing.”
 
 Dhingra said AIIMS was created through Parliament and was funded directly by the Union government while the BMHRC was under the control of DHR and their merger seemed highly unlikely. 
 
 Member of monitoring committee, constituted by the Supreme Court to keep a watch on services at gas relief hospitals and BMHRC, Purnendu Shukla said it could be semi-merger or a tie-up between the two hospitals and a six-member committee was formed at the local level to work out modalities in this regard, but AIIMS doctors, who are in majority in the committee, don’t seem to be interested in any kind of tie-up with the BMHRC. 
 
 
