Nagpur: A range of mediums, texture and palettes livened up Jawaharlal Darda Art Gallery where six artists hailing from Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra showcased their works over the last seven days. This is the first time that the group exhibited their works in Nagpur.  “This city is in the centre of India and the art scenario is blooming here,” said Ravindra Parkhi, who hails from Navi Mumbai, and took the lead in holding the show titled ‘Confluence’. Showing 15 of his works in sizes of 12x12” and 18x24”, Parkhi specializes in abstracts many of which are done with water colours. “It requires skill as paper and colours add their own dimension,” says Parkhi whose works are bright and brilliant.  For Tarakant Parida, its immortality which is celebrated through his art done mostly in. “In this series titled ‘Immortal’, I have experimented with my intaglio prints of aquatint etching using geometrical forms through which I have sought to create an immortal universe,” says Paridi of his two etching and 3 pen and ink art works. Mixing and matching terracotta and ceramics to create stunning sculptures is Narottam Das. The young artist, who hails from Odisha but works in Bhadravati, says that he draws on mythology, tribal and folk art for his work.  “I work on both traditional and contemporary styles and keep changing the forms and use Ingo process to change colours of terracotta from brick to black and other shades,” Das says, and adds that he tries to incorporate the surroundings and situations in his works. The sculptures of K Venkat Rao reflect the social and cultural issues. Grim faces like those reflected through the question marks on the art piece titled ‘Whom am I’ and huge forms of two tigers bracing for a fight are executed using bamboo, paper, resin and fabric that give his works a semi-realistic appearance. The works of Rajasekhar Pendurthi and Sandhya Patnaik hold attention for their size, eye for detail and eloquence. Rajasekhar sources his images to his childhood, capturing an old woman fish vendor or three fishermen at work or men celebrating a cock fight. Nostalgia surfaces on canvas as he diligently captures the mood and memories, giving his art a feeling of narration.  But Sandhya sticks to the female form and, with the use of chromatic hues, she lends the works an innocence and tenderness all so much a part of feminine charm.