Bengaluru: The  , which was doused following a marathon 26-hour operation, became the political flashpoint between the Congress, BJP and the JD(S) on Saturday with the three parties blaming each other for failing to protect the waterbody and Bengalureans.

 While the BJP took potshots at the Congress by describing the lake’s deterioration as a “man-made disaster caused by inaction over the past 50 years”, the latter retorted stating the Modi-led government at the Centre has refused to give funds to rejuvenate the lake. The JD(S), meanwhile, mocked both the parties stating: “Bellandur Lake frothed when the BJP was in power and it is now on fire when the Congress is in power.”
 
 Politicians from different parties rushed to the spot to send across ‘we-care-for-the-lake’ messages in the run-up to the assembly elections. The first salvo was fired by the BJP when it slammed chief minister Siddaramaiah for splurging public fund on poll campaigns while citing a cash crunch when it comes to improving the condition Bellandur Lake. Alleging that the government was in sleep mode and had not utilized central funds worth Rs 162 crore released for constructing four sewage treatment plants at the lake, the BJP said Siddaramaiah will wake up to the problem only when the froth and stink reached his residence.
 
 The Congress decided to apply brakes on the BJP’s tirade and rushed Bengaluru development minister K J George and mayor N Sampath Raj to the lake to oversee the fire control operation. George stated: “The opposition’s claim that the Centre has released funds for cleaning of Bengaluru lakes and our government has not done anything about it is a blatant lie. The fact is that the Centre has not responded to the state’s request and has categorically denied separate funding for this purpose.” The minister maintained that the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) has undertaken de-weeding and related activities in Bellandur Lake using its own resources. 
 
 ‘City of lakes on fire’
 
 Union minister Prakash Javadekar, who visited the lake, charged the Congress government with complacency. “We have prepared plans for Bellandur Lake development, held meetings and released funds too. But nothing has improved and sewage continues to flow into it. It is tragic that Bengaluru, which was once the city of lakes, has now become a city of lakes on fire.” 
 
 HDK blames BJP, Cong
 
 JD(S) state president and former CM H D Kumaraswamy, who is looking at improving the party’s tally this time in Bengaluru’s 28 assembly segments, blamed the national parties for the mess. He said: “Congress and BJP have failed the lake and Bengalureans. Had the two parties not looted money in the name of lake rejuvenation and worked sincerely to save it, the waterbody would have been a beautiful spot.” 
 
 
