JAIPUR: The state government on Wednesday informed the   that 1,141 Primary Health Centres (PHCs) and   (CHCs) in the rural areas of the state have been notified as ‘remote and difficult areas’. The in-service doctors worked in these centres for a year were eligible for bonus marks for PG admission.

 The   had directed the government to identity the ‘remote and difficult’ areas and notify them before the February 28 but the authorities had failed to do. The government informed of the notification in the court in reply to a petition by some non-service doctors challenging reservation accorded to in service doctors without notifying remote and difficult areas by non-service doctors. 
 
 However the state notification also included doctors worked in rural areas for a year till April 30 2018 also eligible for bonus marks. This was challenged by the non-service doctor Ajeet Bagra again in a fresh petition in the high court which will come for hearing on Thursday, said counsel for the petitioner Purvi Mathur. 
 
 Rajasthan High Court in its order on April 7, 2017 had mandated the state government to grant weightage marks to the in-service doctors serving in remote and difficult areas under Regulation 9(IV) of the Medical Council of India 2000. However the remote and difficult areas were not notified. However the high court order was challenged in the apex court.
 
 The apex court order said the incentive to in-service doctors under Regulation 9(IV) cannot be granted till the remote and difficult area are identified and notified by the state government for all beneficial schemes.
 
 
 High court on Wednesday directed the city Police commissioner   to decide on land related cases pending in police stations within a year.
  
 The single bench of   had summoned the police commissioner in a case of a petitioner seeking transfer of a fake land record case from Jhotwara to Harmanda police station but the competent officer had not singed the transfer order. The court ordered the police commissioner to frame guidelines for cases transfer and also directed to investigate the specific case by an officer not less than an ACP.
 
 
