CHENNAI: The no-confidence motion, moved by the TDP and YSR  , against the NDA government will be a smooth show for the   which enjoys a majority on its own. But for the ruling   in  , which may be compelled to abstain or vote in favour of the BJP, its decision could prove tricky for its prospects back home.

 With Tamil Nadu’s   water sharing dispute with Karnataka heating up, a confidence vote in favour of the BJP-led government or even abstinence, which would mean covert support, could be powerful ammunition in the hands of the DMKled opposition as well as arch rival AMMK, led by T T V Dhinakaran.
 
  
  
 
 “The issue (no-confidence) is not such a bother for us right now. We are fighting for our fair share of Cauvery water. As long as we keep raising the issue in Parliament, there is no room for other businesses,” said a senior AIADMK MP, not willing to be named.
 
 While there has been no internal deliberation or any meeting scheduled yet to discuss the party’s move for the trust vote, senior party leaders say the AIADMK may at best abstain from voting, an instruction for which is likely to be given to party MPs after the date for the trust vote is fixed.
 
 “That will be a futile exercise for the AIADMK,” pointed out analyst and senior journalist Tharasu Shyam. “As the second largest opposition party in Parliament after the Congress, the AIADMK, with 49 MPs, will get a decent time slot to speak on the no-confidence motion. The party should use this opportunity for a quid pro quo - ‘if you give us Cauvery Management Board, we will give you support’. That would raise the AIADMK’s stock in Tamil Nadu,” he said.
 
 But the BJP’s political compulsions are inclined towards pleasing Karnataka, which is scheduled to go to the polls soon. A commitment to the Edappadi K Palaniswami-O Panneerselvam dispensation appears remote. “This could have been an opportunity for us to show our resentment on the Cauvery issue. The CM, however, is in a catch-22 situation. If we abstain from voting, we will be subject to criticism in TN. If we vote against the NDA government, we are doomed too,” said an OPS loyalist, seeking anonymity.
 
 The DMK and other opposition leaders have been pressuring AIADMK MPs to resign on the Cauvery issue. On Sunday, CPM state secretary   said AIADMK MPs should vote against the BJP-led government.
 
 “Otherwise, it will be betrayal of the people of Tamil Nadu,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the coming week could see plenty of action. The finance bill is slated to be passed on Thursday in the TN assembly and there is talk of a cabinet reshuffle. There is also the impending verdict in the MLAs disqualification case with senior AIADMK leaders hoping that the court may finally ask the assembly speaker to reconsider his decision to expel the 18 MLAs.
 
