COIMBATORE: The Good   at Fort, Town Hall, is just a year short of turning 100. The bad news, according to a section of former students and teachers, is that the management is planning to shut it down owing to poor strength. The issue was discussed on Sunday as the students of the 1994 batch gathered to felicitate their teachers.

 The school management, however, denied the reports and said they were looking to improve the school’s condition.
 
 Set up in 1919 as an elementary school, it was upgraded to a middle school in 1927 and a high school in 1947. This government-aided school was once the choice of many from Town Hall, Ukkadam and Sungam areas.
 
 Recalling the good old days, P Muthamilan, 62, a former Tamil teacher of the school, said the school had around 650 students at its peak. “Lots of SC/ST students and children of sanitary workers who studied in the school have later made their mark in various fields,” he said. “Though the pass percentage was around 47% before i joined the school, after principal Philomin Maria Joseph took over, it rose drastically due to his efforts. In 1993 and 1994, the school saw 100% results,”   added.
 
 Former teachers of the school said the management had stopped admission to Class VI four years ago and made the students, who cleared Class V, join a matriculation school nearby, a sister concern of the management. “The management systematically closed admissions to Class VI and made the students join the matriculation school. That’s why the student strength has come down,” said a former teacher.
 
 When contacted, Fr Andrew, correspondent of the school, said the management had not decided to close down the school. “We have not stopped admissions either. But parents don’t prefer the school as it doesn’t have Class XI & XII,” he said. Pointing out that the school teachers were on evaluation duty, he said, “Once they come back, we will discuss ways to improve the school.”
 
 Former students said in their days the school was the most sought-after in the area. “There was hardly any vacant seat in the school,” said  , 39, who completed Class X from the school in 1994. “Now, it is sad hear that the school is about to be closed down for want of student strength,” he said.
 
 
