PUNE: A couple of months after it fizzled out, the drive against private vehicles entering the bus rapid transit system corridors (BRTS) has restarted.

 The   ( ) and the city traffic police have joined forces in this regard. 
 
 On May 18 and May 19, PMPML and the police have caught 60 two- and four-wheelers that had entered the dedicated bus corridor between   and Wagholi.
 
 “We had started a drive a few months ago, as instructed by  , the then chairman and managing director of PMPML,” an official said, “Many vehicles were caught and fined. However, the drive lost steam soon.”
 
 Acting on Mundhe’s orders, the drive had begun at the dawn of the year. It didn’t last long, however.
 
 TOI had reported on January 31 that the drive lost steam due to two reasons — traffic wardens reduced to the role of mute spectators, and infrequent checks by the PMPML.
 
 Wardens had said they were helpless as the fear of getting roughed up, abused or even thrashed by motorists stopped them from taking action.
 
 The wardens had also blamed the PMPML’s irregular action against the vehicles entering the BRTS stretches. 
 
 All this contributed to motorists not taking the drive seriously, they had said. 
 
 “Now, with the drive getting restarted, the role of the police has become more prominent. Fines have been imposed on the violators,” the official added.
 
 On May 18, around 32 vehicles — 20 two-wheelers and 12 four-wheelers — were caught straying into the bus corridor. On May 19, about 28 vehicles — 18 two-wheelers and 10 four-wheelers — were caught.
 
 “We have appointed traffic wardens to keep an eye on the corridors. However many people don’t listen to them. In fact, there have been cases in which the wardens have been abused and even assaulted by errant motorists. The drive will be replicated across all the corridors. We have plans to provide more power and authority to the wardens and are holding discussions with the police in this regard,” the official said.
 
 Sources in the PMPML said the Pune and   municipal corporations have suggested that electronic gates be installed at the entry and exit points of the corridors. 
 
 However, that appears to be a pipe dream at the moment. “The plan is still in the works, but it will take some more time as funds need to be released by both the municipal corporations,” an official said. “With these gates in place, no one will be able to cross them illegally and the issue will be solved permanently,” the official added.
 
 “Until such time, these drives will be a regular feature,” the official added.
 
 
