Bengaluru: It’s been nearly two months since British Telecom techie Kumar Ajitabh disappeared after he drove out of his Whitefield residence in his Maruti Ciaz. Ajitabh planned to sell it to raise funds for his management studies and had gone to meet an unknown person interested in buying it. With Ajitabh not returning and the identity of the alleged buyer not known, pressure is mounting on police to hand over the probe to the CBI. 

 A senior police said: “This is the most challenging case we’re handling; we’re getting checkmated on all fronts. But we’re hopeful of solving it.”
 
 No mobile clues 
 
 Unlike other crimes cracked using cellphone call records, etc. this case is a challenge. “Both Ajitabh and the unknown buyer used mobile phones to communicate, yet we’re clueless,” said an officer. Ajitabh’s phone was switched off 40 minutes after he left home on December 18 and has not been turned on since then. Police believe the suspect and his aides switched it off immediately after picking him up. Using call record details, police identified the number from which the suspect called. But an intensive probe revealed the SIM card was in the name of Sabina, a Kolar-based beedi worker, and she had no clue how the SIM had reached the suspect. She told police she discarded the SIM after using it for a week.
 
 CCTV footage clear
 
 Police realized the SIM has been procured from Anand’s shop in Kolar. He admitted he had issued the SIM to an unknown person using Sabina’s documents and the same application was processed by SIM card marketing executive Shivakumar. Police failed to retrieve footage from the CCTV camera in the shop. “While buying the SIM, the suspect asked the shopkeeper about the storage duration of the CCTV footage. The latter told him the images would get auto-erased after 30 days. Ajitabh went missing 30 days after the SIM was procured by the suspect and the SIM card along with a phone was abandoned on the road. The suspect had formatted the phone and erased the previous history pertaining to SIM usage. The suspect had used one phone model that allows reformatting,” police said. 
 
 No ransom calls
 
 While police suspected the motive to be kidnap for ransom, there’s been no call yet from the suspect to Ajitabh’s relatives or friends. Police have concluded he did not have personal enmity with anyone. They suspect Ajitabh was tracked by suspects after he posted an advertisement about his car on an online marketplace.
 
 Car untraced
 
 Ajitabh’s sedan has not been found yet. Police checked CCTV footage from all toll plazas around the city for clues, but in vain. “There are 15 routes to enter Tamil Nadu from the city and many don’t have CCTV coverage. The suspect could have used one such route,” said cops.
 
 Timeline
 
 Dec. 18, 2017: Kumar Ajitabh missing after he left his Whitefield house around 6.30pm to meet an unknown person interested in buying his car
 
 Dec. 20: Childhood friend and roommate Ravi Kumar files missing person complaint with Whitefield police
 
 Dec. 29: Whitefield police register a fresh case of kidnap based on father A K Sinha’s complaint
 
 Jan. 3, 2018: Sinha files writ petition before high court of Karnataka seeking CBI probe.
 
 Feb. 10: Whitefield police arrest two men who supplied SIM cards to suspect yet to be identified
 
 
