Avinash Wadhawan’s journey in showbiz has not been easy. After an impressive start in   in the ‘90s, the actor vanished from the scene owing to a personal crisis. He made a comeback many years later, but things had changed by then. However, not one to give up, Avinash fought back — he got into television and over the years, has been a part of a number of shows. Currently seen in 'Piyaa Albela', the actor talks about the rigours of the television industry and what keeps him going. Excerpts... 

 
 
 Absolutely, and I say that with authority and conviction — as an actor who has been in this industry for 25 years, has worked as a leading man in 15-odd Hindi movies in the ‘90s, done regional cinema and many TV shows. Though there’s hard work in both mediums, the kind of pressure and stress that a TV actor has to deal with, is unparallelled. An actor’s creative satisfaction is marred by the complexities and nitty-gritty of TV culture and, unfortunately, it has no solution. 
 
 
 
 The minute you start shooting for a TV soap, it’s like you are on a non-stop expressway journey, where you sometimes can’t apply the brakes even for refreshments! A 150-minute movie is shot in a span of 75-100 days, while a TV episode of 22 minutes has to be shot in one day. Look at the pressure on the writers, directors, editors and above all, actors who have to deliver quality performance at such a fast pace and also look fresh and good. In movies, an actor has enough time to discuss, memorise, improvise and rehearse the scenes. But on TV, one often gets the dialogues minutes before the shoot; sometimes a four-five-page scene has to be canned in a couple of hours. The director is in such a hurry that, at times, a shot is okayed even if the actor’s performance is not up to his full potential. Rarely can an actor ask for a retake to improve his performance, leave alone his looks. That apart, a TV actor has to perform the same character every day, over and over, for weeks, months and sometimes years, without becoming monotonous and repetitive. It takes a toll and I’m sure even an Oscar-winning actor would exhaust his creative skills if he does TV soaps! A television actor can never plan a long holiday, he gets no time to rejuvenate or relax and can be required to shoot anytime, depending on the script. He could be unwell, but he has to somehow manage because of telecast deadlines. Well, the producers can’t be blamed, because they have to deliver the episode on time. 
 
 
 
 During the ‘90s, I was quickly climbing the ladder of success bagging movies with makers like Mahesh Bhatt, Partho Ghosh, KC Bokadia, Lawrence D’souza and heroines like Karisma Kapoor, Divya Bharti and Pooja Bhatt, among others. Majority of my movies like 'Aayee Milan Ki Raat', 'Junoon, Balma', 'Geet, Dil Ki Baazi', 'Police Aur Mujrim' and 'Papi Gudia' did well at the box office and my songs were among the top on the charts. At that point, when I was supposed to totally focus on my career, I got entangled in some serious marital dispute with my wife, now ex-wife. I was so affected emotionally that I lost all ambition and will to continue. I literally stopped meeting people. In fact, I didn’t want to be in Mumbai and was mostly spending time in the US and London with my old friends. There were no mobiles in those days and my manager and producers didn’t know how and where to contact me. That was the worst phase of my life. And, as they say, out of sight is out of mind. Soon, I vanished from the dreamland of stardom as quickly as I had risen. 
 
 
 
 Although I’m not the type who regrets his decisions or broods about the past, I do feel that my own scorpion nature stung me. I’m a typical Scorpio, intellect and emotions rule me equally. I don’t blame anyone but myself for losing out on the stardom that was waiting to embrace me in the 90s. To be successful in this profession, one has to literally eat, sleep and breathe movies. But instead of making career my priority, I wasted my energy on solving personal conflicts. 
 
 
 
 After a break of many years, it wasn’t difficult for me to face the arc lights, but things were, obviously, not the same. The TV industry welcomed me with open arms and I accepted my destiny with grace. I remarried and started afresh. Today, I’m in a happy space. I’m deliberately not taking up movie offers, as I don’t find those offers worthy enough to match with my past status of a leading man. It’s not that I’m running away from reality or I still fantasise myself as a young hero, but the role has to be awe-inspiringly impactful, otherwise I’m happy doing TV. You may call it self-respect, stubbornness or ego, but I can’t let my dignity fall in my own eyes. Today, whether TV or movies, I’m looking for that one strong protagonist’s role, which can again bring me back in limelight in a big way. 
 
