CHENNAI: Private schools in Tamil Nadu will have to shell out more money as the state government on Thursday   to them from paying property tax to local bodies.

 Municipal administration and rural development minister S P   introduced a bill to this effect in the assembly. The government said that it decided to do away with the exemption based on recommendations of the third state finance commission.
 
 According to the bill, all buildings used for educational purposes, other than those run by the government or local bodies or government-aided institutions, will be assessed for property tax. The change will be implemented in the city corporations of Chennai, Madurai, Coimbatore as well as in municipalities of Tamil Nadu.
 
 As for Chennai, the government had introduced an amendment to Section 101, clause (c) of the Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, 1919, to allow exemption for government-run buildings meant for educational purposes, including hostels and libraries. “The government wants to do away with the disparity between urban and rural local bodies and bring in uniformity in assessment of tax,” said a senior government official.
 
 Government-aided education institutions that run self-financing courses will also have to pay property tax. For such institutions, however, the assessment is likely to be restricted to buildings in which the self-financing courses are run.
 
 Corporation officials said the proposed legislation would not reflect significantly in tax collection figures. “There are more than 12 lakh buildings in Chennai assessed for property tax. With the inclusion of private colleges and schools, there will be an extra 1,000 buildings, if not less. There would hardly be a 5% net increase in  ,” said a revenue official.
 
 Since the government has called for uniformity in tax assessment, the city corporation will await instructions from the state administration on the tax slab to be applied for these institutions. “We cannot collect existing residential or commercial (property) charges. The assessment should be limited to built-up area, and not the (school) campus,” the official added.
 
 The move has not gone down well with private school administrators who hinted that the “tax burden” may be passed on to parents. “The government should have consulted us beforehand,” said R Visalakshi, president of TN private schools association.
 
 Parent-teacher association representatives urged the government to ensure schools do not increase fees.
 
 (With inputs from   and  )
 
