THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Promotion and protection of petty production sector should be considered as an effective alternative to the capitalist development trajectory that deprives both opportunities and income to a large section of rural workforce in the name of growth and development, said economist and former vice-chairman of state planning board,  .

 
 He was presenting his views on development at a colloquium organized by   at Kerala University senate chamber here on Monday.
 
 The term development, according to Patnaik, should be understood in the social context it takes place. Capitalist development, which the country witnesses was tending to increase the unemployment and further impoverish the rural folk, especially agriculture peasantry, he said. “This is why you have 8% growth in the GDP and an increased growth in unemployment and poverty. Greater GDP should not be misunderstood as less poverty and less unemployment. It only means more accumulation of wealth for a small section of the society,” said Patnaik.
 
 “To provide protection to the petty production sector, a restricted intervention of technology should only be allowed in traditional sectors. Those who make out a living from the petty production sectors should benefit from the same. The country has a domestic market that is large enough and there is no need to open the market for the multinational companies to make killing profits. Both Mahatma Gandhi and Mao had believed in this,” he said.
 
 Utsa Patnaik, noted economist and professor emeritus at the Centre for Economic Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University in her opening lecture in the colloquium said that deprivation of opportunities to peasantry was one of the common features of industrial revolution anywhere in the world. The opportunities ruined and farmland is taken away in the name of development seldom generate enough employment opportunities or any other benefit to the losers, she said.
 
 According to her, China was about to face the impact of its ‘foolish efforts’ to invite maximum foreign investment and export drive at the cost of own domestic market.
 
