SHIMLA: The   high court has directed the state chief secretary to   Harvinder Singh, presently posted at Dharamshala, Kangra district. On the issue of illegal mining in Khanyara panchayat in the district, the court had found the explanation furnished by Harvinder to be false. He had claimed that no illegal mining was being carried out at Khanyara and he had not received any complaint in this regard.

 While hearing the matter on Wednesday, a division bench of acting Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Ajay Mohan Goel found the   to be a local resident of the area. The court said that under these circumstances it would not be prudent for Harvinder to continue to be posted in his home district. “As such we direct the chief secretary to the government of Himachal Pradesh to forthwith consider the transfer of the said officer to an area where his services can be utilised better and perhaps that place can be in Kinnaur,” the court added.
 
 On the issue of blasting and illegal mining in Khanyara area, advocate general Ashok Sharma had handed over a note prepared by the mining officer, which read that frequent site visits were being conducted in the Khaniyara area to check slate mining activities and for that purpose one mining inspector had been specifically deputed in this area to keep strict vigil. 
 
 It also stated that in addition to the routine visits, surprise inspections were also being conducted by an official of the department and during the site visits no case of blasting had been observed or reported, neither any complaint of blasting had been received. It further stated that illegal mining of slate in this area had been controlled to a larger extent and no case of illegal extraction had been reported for the last one year. It also claimed that after the site visit and inquiries from local people, it had been reported that some of the mining activities might be taking place in the odd hours for which action would be taken by the department concerned.
 
 
