MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday slammed   for the manner in which it violated laws while investigating a   at   in 2015. A division bench of Justices   and   directed police commissioner   to order an inquiry by an inspector general rank officer into the incident. 

 “When a common citizen breaks a law like littering or breaking a signal, the first argument advanced by the state is ‘ignorance of law cannot be an excuse’. We fail to understand how the police officers (who are law enforcers) can violate rules,” the bench said. 
 
 The court was hearing a petition filed by 33-year-old Govandi resident Deepali Jadhav, whose husband Deepak was found hanging from the ceiling of a room at Mankhurd police station on August 4, 2015. Advocate Chetan Mali, counsel for the petitioner, said that a law brought into force in 2005 requires the police to conduct an inquiry by a judicial magistrate within 24 hours of the custodial death, in this case the inquiry was conducted by an executive magistrate. While a judicial magistrate is a judicial officer, executive magistrates are government officers tasked with administration. 
 
 “When the law specifically requires inquiry by a judicial magistrate, it is difficult to appreciate why the police authorities got the inquiry done by an executive magistrate,” the bench said, adding that the senior police inspector was either ignorant of the law or had done it with some other purpose. “If they did it because of ignorance then they do not deserve to be police officers. The commissioner should have suspended the police officer who doesn’t know the provisions of the law,” observed the bench during the hearing. 
 
 Jadhav was brought to the police station by some local people who claimed he was trying to steal cycles in a colony. In the accidental death register, police claimed Jadhav was let off, but returned after some time, went up to the changing room of the officers and committed suicide. 
 
 The court said, “Prima facie this version is difficult to digest. Does this mean any one can walk into your police station and go into a room exclusively meant for officers?” 
 
 The bench directed the commissioner to ensure that the inquiry was conducted in an “impartial manner” and report submitted within four weeks. The judges warned that if it found that the inquiry was done with a view to saving the men in uniform then it would take a serious view of the matter.
 
 
