Sporting shades of ‘
 (yellow), Pune’s Bengali community will gather today to celebrate  . The festival, also known as  , is a time to pay reverence to Saraswati, the goddess of knowledge, wisdom, music and art. 

 But more importantly, it’s the only time of the year , nowhen the school and college-going youth, in particular, gain special audience (and favour!) with the goddess. Samiran Bhowmik, an Aundh-based senior working professional, says, “This is the festival of youngsters, especially those who are studying. We seniors are merely festival organisers. On this day, youngsters place their books and pens at the feet of Maa Saraswati and seek her blessings for all future educational endeavours.” 
 
 Back in Kolkata, schools and colleges are shut for the celebrations, and it’s a day your average Bengali lad or lass can get away without being scolded for not studying. But Pune’s probhashi Bangalis (Bengalis residing outside West Bengal) have a different story to tell when it comes to celebrations in the city. Pushpita Haldar, a class 12 student of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Viman Nagar, says, “While my relatives in Kolkata are chilling today, I’ll be preparing for my board exams that start next week. I might miss out on wearing a yellow sari and going for pushpanjali with my friends, nonetheless, I’ll be fasting today, so that Saraswati Maa gives me success in my exams.” 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 For the community, Saraswati Puja is a homely affair, and however busy they might be, 
 (fasting and offering flowers to the goddess) is something the Bengalis don’t miss out on. But another anticipated part is what follows – feasting and adda (chit-chat, Bengali-style); not because it is the order of the day, but because it is something all Bengalis love!
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 is a key aspect of the day. Before beginning school life, it is the pandit who orients toddlers into education in the true sense. With the help of the priest, children write their first alphabets on a slate. It is only after this that their formal education can begin. 
  
  
 
 When a Bengali steps out of Kolkata, the fear of missing the festivals and food is forever stuck. But Pune is a welcoming city to everything and everyone. "After moving to Pune for higher education, I’d thought I’d miss all the festivities back in Kolkata. But the community here made me feel at. This year, I’m looking forward to attending Saraswati Puja with the Magarpatta Bengali Association", shares Poulami Das, Baner-based content writer.
 
 
 
 
 "Nothing matches up to the celebrations I’ve witnessed in Assam, but here in Pune, regardless of how busy I am, I take time out to offer pushpanjali" says Deepansh Pratap Gupta, a corporate employee.
 
 All said and done, the community enjoys the idea of celebration and fellowship. There’s little wonder then, why there’s a common saying that goes, ‘Baromashe tyaroh porbon!’ (Though there are 12 months in a year, we will find 13 festivals to celebrate!), and Saraswati Puja is definitely one of them, without doubt.
 
 --
 
 
