Strong is the new skinny. For decades women have spent hours at the gym in an effort to be skinny but now they seek real ‘strength’. They are slim, but with biceps, calves and the formidable six-packs! Women are incorporating strength training into their workouts and focusing on toning rather than just getting thin. From   Khan’s planking and rowing photos to Sushmita Sen’s gymnastics and calisthenics videos, even Bollywood divas are trying out what it takes to sustain   in the long run. Says actor Mandira Bedi, “I wanted to look and feel powerful in my body and mind. Along with my 90 minutes of gym time, or 1.25 km of swimming, or 10-km run, I do 40 minutes of intense workouts with  . I’m proud of my muscle strength.” Women today don’t want to just look fit, but also feel fit. 

 
 
 The greater a woman’s muscle mass, the higher her metabolic rate and the more calories she is likely to burn, even at rest. Pumping up is taking fitness to a higher level. Shweta Rathore, a woman body-builder who trains young women, picks up weights of 450 kg at her gym. She says, “Women want to be toned and build muscles to make a difference to their metabolism. They walk into the gym wanting to lose weight and then they get inspired to lift weights and get ripped. A sculpted body is the best thing they could gift themselves today.” 
 
 The University of Missouri-Kansas City asked 78 female undergraduate students to rate the winners of the Miss USA beauty pageant and discovered that women with toned or muscular figures are now seen as sexier than women who are very thin. The Head researcher of this study, Frances Bozsik, wrote, “There is a shift in the thin ideal female figure to one that now includes physical fitness via muscularity.”
  
 
 
 Women with biceps aren’t restricted to the glam world alone. Get onto social media and you’d be surprised to see ordinary women lifting extraordinary weights. Fitness expert Yasmin Karachiwala says, “Social media is the place where women follow trends and realise thin is no longer fit. They must possess exercise strength, flexibility and go through the day not feeling tired or lazy.” The cult of muscle is all the rage on Instagram, led by a new generation of fitness influencers.There’s Navreet Josan, whose Instagram handle @lilrocket, shows her in a ripped avatar. 
 
 Says Josan, “The results you want from your workouts won’t come from one training session or one day of eating right. What’s going to build the kind of body you want is consistent hard work.” Her feeds shows a mixture of filmed workout routines, zippy motivational messages and photographs of what she eats. She’s built her body like an athlete not a model. So has another Insta sensation, Harpreet Pandher. The motto of these women is simple — “Strong in mind and body”!
  
 
 
 With age, women’s muscles deteriorate at a faster rate than men’s. Thus, it’s essential to work on muscle strength from early on. Women lifting weights, or working against their bodyweight in “resistance” exercises like press-ups, are likely to have tremendous health benefits. These workouts can help maintain bone density, which is important for avoiding osteoporosis; prevent muscle wastage as women age, potentially allow them to stay active and independent well into their late 50s. Strong trapezius, deltoid, biceps and triceps muscles could some day make a huge difference in carrying out basic tasks like carrying groceries or your grandkids. 
 So, go ahead… box it and lift it!
 
 
 (Main picture) Actress Mandira Bedi has worked hard to be lean and fit; (last picture) VJ and actress Gurbani Judge, popularly known as Bani, is known for her muscular 'non-feminine’ body; (down) actress Kareena Kapoor Khan is big time into alternative fitness routines 
  
  
  
 
