GURUGRAM: A quack was arrested for his alleged involvement in a pre-natal   racket, during a raid on a private clinic near IMT-Manesar on Monday but his two associates fled the scene even before health officials and cops could reach the spot.

  
 An FIR has been filed against Sachin under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, the Indian Medical Council Act and Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Kherki Daula police station. But the police could not slap charges under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Technique (PCPNDT) Act as, sources said, they did not have enough evidence to invoke the relevant sections.
 
 Sources further said despite continuous raids on clinics conducting sex determination tests and abortions, health department officials and police had been struggling to ensure conviction of those arrested in connection with these illegal activities. Even in cases wherein the PCPNDT Act or the Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act was invoked, officials have failed miserably to prove charges against accused.
 
 In Gurugram, as many as 24 clinics, which were illegally conducting sex determination tests and abortions, were raided since 2015. A total of 12 FIRs — six under PCPNDT Act and six under MTP Act — were filed in 2017 alone while another 12 FIRs were registered between May 2015 and December 2016. But since 2015, the conviction was achieved in only one of these 24 cases. Sources said Gurugram had one of the worst conviction rates in such cases in the state.
 
 Across  , a total of 556 FIRs have been registered under the PCPNDT and MTP Acts between May 2015 and February 2018. But the health department and police managed to achieve conviction in only 31 of these cases due to lack of evidence.
 
 “We file complaints and surrender all the evidence — including drugs, surgical instruments and ultrasound machines collected from the spot — to the police. We also keep tracks on the accused call records. But we really struggle to prove charges against the accused, who eventually get out on bail. Sometimes, they resume the illegal activities, undermining the whole efforts,” said a senior health official.
 
 For instance, during the raid on Monday, health officials and police nabbed Sachin from Trusha Hospital in Manesar’s Bhangrola village with the help of a decoy patient. But his two accomplices — Sonu Yadav, a quack, and Pawan, a tout — managed to flee with the ultrasound machine, which was allegedly being used for conducting sex determination tests. Now, without the machine which had the data, it would be difficult for the officials to probe Sachin and his aides were indeed conducting sex tests.
 
 Similarly, the authorities could not file the challan in the case of   and Maternity Centre in   (Sector 5) due to lack of evidence. The centre was raided in July last year. City’s   was raided on September 17, 2015, and subsequently, police filed a case against its owner under various sections of the IPC but they did not provide any information on the status of the complaint under Section 28 of the PNDT Act.
 
 A senior health official said, “We need coordinated efforts by the prosecution, health department and police to achieve success in such cases. Law officers dealing with such cases need to provide legal support to police and health officials at various levels.”
 
 
 
