Kolhapur: For Class IV student Ritwik Mirajkar, going to school and studying is one of his favourite activity. An ardent participant in almost all school activities, Ritwik loves teaching his fellow juniors, all the more with the recent introduction of e-learning in his school Vidyamadir Jadhavwadi. 

 Jadhavwadi, a remote hamlet with less than 100 families (mostly Jadhavs) and 35kms from the city, has only one school in the entire village—Vidyamandir Jadhvwadi. The school which hardly has 28 students in total—from class 1 to 5— has witnessed a drastic change with the introduction of e-learning. According to school authorities, students are getting digital lessons on various topics and can handle the computer on their own.
 
 Besides Ritwik, there are 14 boys and 13 girls who love being in school for most of their time .
 
 After mid-day meal everyday, the school has a fixed schedule on e-learning for two hours. A projector, two computers, a printer, a scanner—the school has all the digital equipment arranged with the help of public contribution and MP Dhananjay Mahadik’s financial support. 
 
 Rajendra Chavan, acting headmaster and teacher of the school, said not a single public transportation is available to travel to Jadhavwadi, leave aside a private one. People either have to walk barefoot or travel on their own vehicle; citizens mainly prefer the former to go to the nearby town of Sangrul.
 
 Chavan said parents have come forward and donated whatever they could for the welfare of the school. “We have collected around Rs 2.50 lakh this year, thanks to the contribution of the parents. Even those who do not have a steady financial background donated at least Rs 50 for the school’s development,” he said.
 
 He added not only digital learning, they have developed Muktangan—a facility where students can casually read books— in their school premises. “We have around 400 books which students can read in their free time at Muktangan,” he said.
 
 He added the projector provided to them has the facility to connect with the mobile through which they can directly show videos or live events on the big screen to the students. 
 
 From class 2 to class 5, all students can almost effortlessly handle the computer and can even navigate to the folder where their lessons are saved. 
 
 Chavan said that the funds from MP Dhananjay Mahadik, and Kolhapur zilla parishad has helped the school to facelift its infrastructure.
 
 Subhash Chougule, education officer (primary), said the department is trying to bring all schools in the Kolhapur district under the ambit of e-learning, the successful implementation of which depends on public participation. 
 
 
