KOCHI:   has 36 factories classified as major accident hazardous units (MAH) out of which 22 are in   district. Apart from these, there are 1,600 large and close to 3,000 small industrial units in the district. Though majority of these factories are in and around Kochi, they have been reluctant to share details about the hazardous materials they handle and fire safety measures to be adopted with the fire and rescue department. This would have an impact on rescue operations in case of emergencies. 

 "We have sought the details of the hazardous materials they use, the products, and measures they have put in place to curb accidents. Kochi being an industrial area, we will have to keep ourselves ready for meeting any emergency situation. If we get the details, it will help us to be prepared. But they have been reluctant to furnish such details to us," a top official with fire and rescue department said. 
 
 Hence the department has started taking steps to prepare a list of factories and hazardous things they deal with. "Many of the factories claim they use chemicals and materials for which they have secured permission from concerned agencies. But only if they divulge the details, we can know about any unauthorized use of chemicals. Moreover, we would be in a better position to deal with accidents. For example, if a fire breaks out in a factory which deals with sulphuric acid, we can't use water for extinguishing the fire. Instead, limestone has to be used," sources with the fire and rescue department said.
 
 Making matters worse, the fire and rescue stations in   and  , the regions which house a majority of industries, do not have adequate staff to conduct inspections in the factories. "These stations have only a few officers. They have to be deployed for the day-to-day firefighting duties. A dedicated team needs to be set up for collecting information from the factories. Still, we managed to collect the details from 10-11 factories in our jurisdiction," an official said.
 
 The fire and rescue stations in these areas lack adequate equipment as well. "We don't have industrial water tender machines for conducting rescue operations in factories. These machines have several advanced features like the capacity to discharge dry chemical powder (DCP). DCP is very useful in dousing fire caused by chemical, oil and gas. We also do not have enough number of water carrier trucks, ambulances and safety equipment," sources said. "In Eloor, we have a portable DCP machine but it would be exhausted in a minute's use," he said.
 
 It is the factories and boilers department which conducts periodical inspections to ascertain safety facilities at factories and give them permissions to run them. 
 
 "We used to conduct periodical inspections in the industrial units. In addition, we conduct priority inspections in MAH units," said S  , joint director, factories and boilers department, Ernakulam region. "On the basis of inspections, we give recommendations which help them improve the standards of safety facilities," he said. 
 
 "One of the major flaws, which we detect while inspecting factories is the lack of capacity of dikes (chambers) to contain chemicals. The dikes would ensure that chemicals don't come into direct contact with fire," Mani said.
 
 Leaders of employees' unions said the stakeholders need to take a combined efforts to put in place a proper safety mechanism. "All the concerned agencies need to work in tandem to ensure maximum safety," said M  , general secretary, Shipyard Employees Federation.
 
 
