THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ambience of an old palace and a scenic beachfront location — what more could artists, eager to come together and plunge themselves into the subtleties of visual arts, ask for? A permanent art gallery is going to be opened at Sanghumugham Beach in a couple of weeks and the antique characteristic of   (South Palace) of the erstwhile   has been retained, except for a few modifications. With proper lighting and other interior arrangements, all four major rooms in the palace will be able to host exhibitions and art events round the year. 

 Now in the possession of the city corporation, the palace (to be rechristened ‘Sanghumugham Art Museum’) will get transformed into a unique centre for visual art practices, which will anchor ‘curated and juried art shows of contemporary art works, retrospectives of masters, exhibitions on history and culture, and public sculpture and mural art projects’. “The centre will also conduct travelling art shows in collaboration with major galleries and museums like Delhi-based National Gallery of Modern Art, Lalit   and   for the Arts,” said Ajith Kumar G, director of the art museum.
 
 An exhibition of paintings by 10 young artists from Kerala, curated by Chandran T V, an art history lecturer at Thiruvananthapuram Fine Arts College, will mark the opening of the gallery. “Here, we have a space to display 60 to 70 works. An exhibition of works by women artists from India (to be curated by Bipin Balachandran and Sajitha R Shankar) has already been scheduled for January 2019,” Ajith Kumar said.
 
 The centre is also trying to establish a much-needed ‘buyer culture’ in the field of visual arts, which is lacking in the state. Ordinary people are slowly getting aware of the value of art works, which can add great aesthetics to house interiors, the art museum director said. The city corporation has already spent Rs 25 lakh for renovation works and has earmarked a similar amount for annual maintenance. Besides, the centre has also initiated crowdfunding, accepting contributions from public (Rs 100 per month) against a privilege card. The initial target is to enroll 1,000 contributors. Apart from launching its own website, the new gallery will also begin an online art journal and will publish books on art.
 
 
 
