In the world of Bharatanatyam,   is a familiar face. The 35-year-old artiste, who has also proven his prowess as a choreographer, was recently in Thiruvananthapuram as part of a dance festival. Trained in the Mysore style under Guru Ravindra Sharma in Belgaum and later by   and Sandhya Kiran, he is also an A grade artiste of  . In conversation with Parshwanath, about his dance, performing in Kerala and more:

 
 
 
 
 They challenge the artiste in me, being well-aware of every minute detail of the stories we portray. Be it nritya, abhinaya or music, they get it all well, as many Keralites grow up on art form or the other. Unlike in North India, we don’t have to explain our performances before a show, here. My favourite performance in Kerala was in front of Lord Bharata of Sri Koodalmanikyam temple at Irinjalakuda.
 
 
 
 
 
 My hometown, Belgaum, is very rich in Hindustani music. But my mother, Prema Upadhye was very fond of Bharatanatyam and that made her urge me learn it. She started teaching me dance through dasa padas, songs composed by devotees in honour of Lord Vishnu. Also, Guru Ravindra Sharma got posted in the government school at my hometown as a dance teacher and I could start learning from him. Over time, I developed a passion for it. Currently, I am training under   in Chennai. My mom, from the age of 54, is also learning from my first teacher, for the past six years.
 
 
 
 
 
 Again, my mom is behind it. She wanted to learn martial arts but her family didn’t allow her. Somewhere, her dreams also became mine, as she made me try many disciplines like kalaripayattu, karate, swimming and even making rangoli! Kalaripayattu and swimming helped me have a flexible body. She never made a gender-based discrimination, wonderfully enough, for anything.
 The Thandava lasya I perform is a very common factor of Bharatanatyam. Traditionally it says Shiva and Parvathy sought the thandava and lasya respectively. How you portray it in one person matters the most. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I have been in the field for the past 25 years by performing and choreographing various productions including solos and group shows. Of late, I am concentrating more on solo performances. If you really want to establish as a dancer for the name and fame, then it is challenging and demanding. But if you are dancing for the joy that the art form gives, it is just part of your life.
 
 
 
 
 
 I am against it as I feel it degrades the art form. Recently in a reality show aired on a popular Hindi channel, I saw Krishna vesham in Kathakali being used for the Bollywood song number ‘Jumma Chumma De De’.
 Dance is not just about wearing a costume or looking like a dancer. It’s lot more than that, and I wonder why people in entertainment industry don’t understand that. Art doesn’t have a language, and yes, two art forms can be collaborated. But I am not in favour of taking steps of one classical art form and mixing it with another, with music that does not match.
 
 
 
 
 
 I never had any plans. I have always taken the life and art as it comes. My wife   is also into dance. With our dance company established in 2012, we have made productions like Punyakrishna and Hara, and our most recent production, Satgathi, it is about six dharmas of Sankaracharya.
 
