KOLKATA: Jadavpur   broke into celebrations after the Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering (GATE), 2018 results were declared on Friday. At least four students from the university have been ranked among the top 10 in various streams of engineering in the all-India examinations.

 Of the nearly 600 students who had appeared for GATE 2018, 75% cleared it. In electronics and communication engineering, Arnab Adhikary bagged the top spot. The last time a JU student had been ranked number one was in 2012, when a student stood first in computer science.
 
  bagged the third spot in computer science and information technology, while   secured the ninth position in the same subject. In chemical engineering, Lohit Kayal secured the sixth position.
 
 Registrar and dean of engineering in JU Chiranjib Bhattacharjee said, “Jadavpur University usually performs well in GATE. This year has been even better than average. GATE scores are important for students as public sector companies recruit candidates based on these. A good package, coupled with job security, is a huge incentive.” There may be more toppers in other fields.
 
 Adhikari from   is not interested in pursuing higher studies in India. He wishes to go abroad. “I am interested in research and would want to pursue higher studies in Germany or Switzerland. I look forward to joining other colleges in Europe. I am inclined towards quantum computing,” he said, adding that he would return to India once he got his doctorate. Adhikari had ranked 45 in WBJEE.
 
 Pandey, however, feels there are plenty of good institutes in India where he can pursue a masters degree.
 
 Mazumdar also wants to complete his masters in India — either from IISc, Bangalore or from IIT-Bombay. “I did not expect such a good rank as I did my BE in electronics and telecommunication. I appeared for computer science as I love the subject,” he said.
 
 What academics at the university find heartening is that the students have performed well despite protests and unrests rocking the campus from time to time. Adhikari said he was aware of political developments internationally, nationally and in the state but preferred to concentrate on studies.
 
 
