GURUGRAM/NEW DELHi: Mathematics is, by and large, the subject most dreaded by students, and getting past the   was a huge relief to many. But hours after the test on Wednesday came the news that they would have to sit again for the maths paper.

 And not only is the Class X maths   a source of stress for students and parents, it has also messed up vacation plans. What made students all the more unhappy was the fact that the exam had proved relatively easy. 
 
 Arjun Singh, a Class X student of Meenakshi Public School in Gurugram, said, “Maths is one subject which has always given me jitters. I was so relaxed after the exam was over. Now, I will have to go through it all over again.” 
 
 Rishabh Mahajan, a Class XII student of DPS, Sector 45, added, “This has come as a big shock. I was preparing for my entrance exams but now, I will have to study for the   paper again.”
  
  
 Parents too resented the re-test decision. “Within hours of the examination, students who were relaxing found themselves facing a re-examination because of CBSE’s bloopers,” said Sanjiv Kumar, a parent. Sudip Saral added, “It is high time   got its act together to ensure these problems cease. It is unfair to ask students to sit for the exam for no fault of theirs.”
 
 Manikaran Khurana, a Class XII student of Suncity School, said the economics paper had gone very well. “This rescheduling is not right. I was planning to go to Manali on Thursday. Now, I can’t. Why am I paying for something I didn’t do?” she said. Sakshi Aggrawal, a Class X student of Euro International School, added, “I am not happy that the examination has been rescheduled. I had planned a vacation with my parents to relax after the exams.”
 
 Empathising with the students, Vaibhav Kumar, principal of Ajanta Public School, said, “The rescheduling of these exams has put an extra burden on students. Now, students will have to go through the entire syllabus again. This will be a big worry for them. CBSE should pay attention to how they conduct the exams and hold centre superintendents responsible for issues.” Bhishma Bharadge, principal, Drona Public School, added, “Students will have to prepare again while we have to take extra classes in school. This is an extra burden on teachers too.”
 
 Karan Paul, a parent, decried the inability of the board to ensure that meritorious students received just rewards. “It is depressing for a child who has slogged through the year to walk into the examination hall and find students who have not studied claiming they will get 90%. How has the education system degraded to such a level?”
 
 Rajiv Chaturvedi, maths teacher at DPS (Maruti Kunj) said, “The maths paper was easy and students worked hard too. Many students were happy with the exam.” Rachna Sharma, economics teacher, Blue Bells School, said, “The economics paper compared to previous years was quite easy. Students will have to sit for the exam again. This is not right.”
 
 
