MUMBAI: The Indian government has pleaded diplomatic immunity for its ambassador in Portugal from testifying as witness in court proceedings initiated by gangster and 1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict Abu  .

  
  
 
 
 Extradited in 2005 and sentenced to life terms by a Mumbai court in two cases, Salem has been fighting a legal battle for his return to Lisbon. He moved an administrative court in Lisbon in December 2014 for enforcement of Portuguese court orders of 2011 and 2012 which terminated his extradition over “violations of terms”. 
 
 He wants the court to direct the Portuguese foreign affairs and justice ministries to formally enforce the termination of extradition.
 
 Last month, the Portuguese foreign affairs ministry had raised objections to the validity of the gangster’s petition, its role and the court’s jurisdiction.
 
 In a 17-page submission to court, the ministry said it was a diplomatic matter being handled through diplomatic channels. But Salem, housed in Taloja Central prison, submitted a document ten days later through his lawyer Manuel Luis Fereira to rebut the Portuguese ministry’s arguments. He claimed the court was competent to hear his plea as the government had “breached fair public administrative duties” and failed to fulfil compliance of court decisions, leaving him languishing in prison “in inhumane conditions” and “in perpetual sentences” in violation of the extradition agreement.
 
 He sought to make as witnesses Portuguese officials from its foreign affairs ministry as well as India’s ambassador in Portugal, Portugal’s ambassador in India and a judge from the Portuguese high court that had cancelled the extradition.
 
 In its May 7 response before Lisbon court, the Indian government named as ‘counter-interested party’ declared it has diplomatic immunity. “In accordance with the Vienna Convention of 1961 about Diplomatic Relations, diplomatic agents enjoy the prerogative of not being subpoenaed to testify as witnesses,” said the reply, a copy of which TOI reviewed. “In the understanding of the Indian Union, this rule of International Law confers absolute immunity from the duty to testify to the Ambassador of the Indian Union in Portugal,” it said and added it would “not renounce the immunity in this case.”
 
 The Indian government, however, reiterated its availability to cooperate with the court. It said it will “lend additional clarifications that may be considered pertinent, by other means that do not necessitate violation of the prerogatives and immunities that International Law affords its diplomatic agents.”
 
 Salem’s lawyer Fereira said, “We will take all necessary legal steps to ensure he is brought back to Portugal through proper enforcement of orders. The high court had in 2011 held the terms were violated and terminated grant of extradition. Since the judicial court cannot enforce compliance of its own order, Salem had to move the administrative court which deals with administrative rights to ensure government action.”
 
 Salem also wants copies of all documents exchanged between the two countries and wants to make his Indian lawyers Saba Qureshi, Taraq Sayed and Sudeep Pasbola witnesses before Lisbon court.
 
 The Portuguese Embassy in India wrote to Salem at his prison address on May 3 acknowledging a letter he had sent. “I inform that the Portuguese authorities continue to closely monitor the whole process and remain in permanent contact with the Indian Authorities in order to guarantee that the extradition treaty is fully respected,” said the Embassy.
 
 Ferreira said things have “escalated quickly in the last couple of months’’ and the next step would be to plan a plea in the Administrative Court concerning documents held by Portuguese authorities.
 
 Salem was apprehended in Chelas, a neighbourhood of Lisbon, in November 2002 and extradited in November 2005. In February 2015, a special court trying him under Tada (now repealed) convicted him for the murder of Mumbai builder Pradeep Jain and sentenced him to life imprisonment for murder and conspiracy. Jain was shot outside his   bungalow on March 7, 1995.
 
 Last January, when the 1993 blasts trial was still on, Salem had filed a case before the   ( ) seeking return to Portugal. In a plea through lawyer Taraq Sayed, Salem alleged his presence and trial in India had been rendered illegal and the ongoing criminal proceedings against him stood vitiated as the prosecution violated the extradition agreement by putting him on trial for more charges than agreed on. In July 2017, special Tada judge G A Sanap convicted him for causing the blasts and in September sentenced him to life imprisonment.
 
 
