KANNUR: 178 species of butterflies, including two new species, were spotted in the three-day annual butterfly survey at   in the district, which concluded on Sunday. As many as 142 butterfly enthusiasts from different parts of   participated in this survey, which began on January 12.

 This time, the new species spotted here are silver-streaked acacia blue and eurema nilgiriensis (Nilgiri grass yellow), according to Aralam wildlife warder V Sajikumar. This apart, 67 species of butterflies belonging to nymphlaidae (brush-footed butterfiles) family, followed by 50 species from lycacnidae-blues, as also other families including hesperiidae (25 species), pieridae-whites (20 species) and papilionidac-swallowtails (16) among others were spotted.
 
 Of the 11 spots where the survey was conducted, maximum species diversity was noted at Paripputhodu, with 80 species, followed by Chavachi (67 species) and Kurickathodu (55), according to the observers.
 
 Apart from the migratory flight of common albatross, which belongs to Pieridae family, studies were conducted on different aspects related to the butterflies, including their variety, they said.
 
 Maximum migration count of albatross was noted at Chavachi. The altitudinal migration was initiated at around 10 am with about 140 butterflies in five minutes, which went up to double in one hour and at 1 pm the count was about 1200, said Jaffer Palot, an expert in this field.
 
 According to the experts, 257 species of butterflies were spotted in Aralam in the last 17 years, and there is no other protected forests in the State which has this many varieties of butterflies.
 
 Further, it was also observed that there were thousands of butterflies involved in mud puddling on the banks of Cheenkannyppuzha River and Uruttipuzha River in Aralam, which is the indication that the sand banks there could be rich in rare minerals essential for these butterflies, said the wildlife warden.
 
 The survey also requested the government to declare Malabar tree nymph (Idea malabarica), a large butterfly found in the   region, as the State butterfly of Kerala.
 
 Experts including V C Balakrishnan, Balakrishnan Valappil, assistant wildlife warden V Madhusoodanan among others also took part in the survey, which was jointly organised by Kerala Forest and Wildlife Department and   (MNHS).
 
