JOHANNESBURG: The Board of Control for Cricket in India ( ) is likely to take a favorable call on the proposed changes to the timings of the matches of the   (IPL). 

 
 
 
 
 Some franchises have seen merit in the idea, supposedly mooted by Star, and are understood to have conveyed this to the regulators.   and   have made it clear that they are comfortable with the change of timings, if not necessarily for the overlap of the matches.
 
 
 
 
 "Look they are proposing to advance the games by 30 minutes - 3.30 pm for the afternoon games and 7.30 pm for night games. We see nothing wrong there. An early finish is in everyone's interest. In-stadia public can go home early. It would be safe for them too. We will have an issue if there is an overlap of the games," Venky Mysore, the CEO of the   owned Kolkata franchise, told Mirror.
 
 The original proposal was to start the evening games at 5.30pm and night matches at 7 pm but in the face of some opposition from certain teams, there seems to be some adjustments in the proposals. T
 
 The teams have been explained that the viewership of the matches in the evening declines by 25 per cent in the last hour as the average match duration is three hours 24 minutes. The matches, more often than not, end after 11 pm. It is further argued that it would be difficult for in-stadia fans to find transport back home in places like Delhi, Kolkata and smaller cities like Jaipur.
 
 Agrees   of Rajasthan Royals. "We would prefer an early finish. In Jaipur, people tend to sleep early. If there are no doubleheaders, we are comfortable. In fact I have suggested that on weekends, instead of evening games, we can have breakfast games," the CEO of the Jaipur team said.
 
 The BCCI has not come out with its policy but an argument has also been made that players reach hotels only by 1 am after finishing the post-match formalities. Given the busy travel schedule during the league, the players often take flight early in the morning after a late arrival at the hotel. Early starts can lead to extra rest time for the players, it has been argued.
 
 The biggest deciding factor yet could be the sponsors, who apparently don't get appropriate exposure during the post-match presentation. The presentations happen around 11.30 pm, by when viewers, both inside the ground and of television, won't be there in big numbers.
 
 The BCCI and IPL officials were not immediately available but the authorities seem to be sensitive to the view that there is transport discomfort after 11.30 pm.
 
 There is a chance that the timings will be tweaked so that the matches end by 10.30 pm, not 11.30 pm.
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, it has been learnt that the bidding date for the production services of the IPL and domestic games has been postponed by a week.
 
 The BCCI has informed the concerned parties that the bidding will now happen on February 19, instead of February 12.
 
