Interviewing actors can sometimes be a tricky job; especially when the subject doesn’t believe in censoring his words. In today’s day and age,   represents the endangered species of celebrities, who unabashedly speak their mind, endorse frank thoughts and indulge in self-deprecation. In a conversation with BT, the actor delves into what makes Akshay Kumar’s choices smart, the insatiable desire for stardom that’s common in the industry and why hits and flops have never decided the course of his career. Excerpts:

 
 Yeah, Neeraj didn’t need me all these years. He found   (laughs!)
 
 
 I’m not denying that. Akshay is a smart guy, he was intelligent enough to realise that the audience had seen enough of his acrobatics and he has to change. He has done some decent movies in recent times and grown as an actor.
 
 
 No, I still stand by what I had said. 'Airlift' and 'Jolly LLB 2' succeeded, but I do think that those people, whose orientation into acting is as a star, find it difficult to move away from stardom. Most of them are not real even in their real lives. Only someone like Mr Bachchan ( ) with exceptional skills can manage that. His orientation into cinema was as an actor and not as a star. Stardom for him came much later. That’s the reason I was impressed with Akshay, because after having been a star for so long, he could impart authenticity to the roles he has played lately. He picks relevant topics. Varun Dhawan is also pretty good at what he does and is hard working. Alia Bhatt, to me, is an exception. She was crying a bit much in her first film, but that girl is something else. Girls like her,   and Swara Bhasker are among the finest actresses we have today.
 
 
 (Cuts in) This industry is a pretty incestuous place. It doesn’t work for everyone. You need to have the talent for someone to back it. If one doesn’t have the ability and the drive to do well, the backing is of no use. It’s terrific that girls like Swara and Kalki, despite not being embraced by the industry, are doing well. They must not hanker to become stars.
 
 
 Everyone wants to become a star. There is no doubt about that, but you have to outgrow that phase. Sure, when I was 20, even I wanted to be a star. Eventually, when I went to drama school, I was sure I won’t be dancing around trees. And what do you know? The next thing I was doing was dancing around trees, which I never hankered for. It was thrust upon me. I wanted commercial success very badly and I never got, it but it didn’t kill me. It hurt me, but I realised my strength is elsewhere. The sooner you realise it, the better it is. I realised it after my first song-and-dance role, but I continued to do it for some more films after that. I finally cracked the naach-gaana formula with 'The Dirty Picture'. Thirty years too late?
 
 
 It’s great that actors like them are getting those kind of films. I think   has also handled his career very well. I was a tad afraid about his choices when he did something with Rakhi Sawant in the past, but look at his choices now. Rajkummar and Nawaz’s success gladdens my heart, but I also have my apprehensions. Will they continue to back the kind of films that have brought them this far? Or will they jump the ship and do the Rs 100-crore movies? That’s a choice they have to make because it’s difficult to straddle both worlds. Nawaz is becoming a tad repetitive, but I still look forward to his films.
 
 
 No one watched 'Irada' and it wasn’t a good film. Nude, I thought, was an important film and that the situation of these women must be highlighted as they lead a tragic life. Ravi Jadhav (director) also made 'Natrang', which was a beautiful movie. Through the last year, I did very little work — 'Nude', a Gujarati film called 'Dhuh' and a small role in 'Aiyaary'. I didn’t feel like doing the rest of the work that was offered. It wasn’t interesting.
 
 
 Sure. Some people also told me that 'Zinda Jala Doonga' (1988) was great. People couldn’t stop raving about Karma, which I can’t stand. So, a few people did say that 'Irada’s' subject was good and the acting was fine, but it was a dreadfully-made film. The directors ( Aparnaa Singh and Nishant Tripathi) knew nothing about their job. I lost hope for that film while shooting it. When I work on films like this, I do it in the hope that it’s an important film and a good subject. But it’s like the throw of the dice: it may turn out to be Irada or A Wednesday. I did just one scene for Zoya’s film ('Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara'), because I like her and the script. You can have different reasons for doing different things.
 
 
 There were millions of reasons to do that film. Why did you have to watch it? The reason these films get made is that they end up making money at the box office. What do you do about that? I enjoyed working with Anees Bazmee. He is fascinating to watch at work, though some people don’t like him as much. So many actors, cars, camels and dancers in the middle of a desert and yet, he was in control. You need some ability to do that.
 
 
 The second one (' ') failed at the box office, so 'Ishqiya' may not have another sequel. What else other than money can drive one to make a sequel here? Unless you are Francis Ford Coppola, creative satisfaction is not the reason you back a sequel that didn’t make money the last time around. And here, there are many Francis Fraud Coppolas.
 
 
 For those making films with smaller budgets, it’s become easy to make films, but releasing them is still a cumbersome task. There are some 35 films of mine which are rotting somewhere. I’m sure when people ask, ‘Hero kaun hai’ and they’re told ‘Naseer’, they know where to look. 'Coffin Maker' has been in the cans for more than four years now. So, money makes the mare go around. A Wednesday released because the producers saw money in it. Otherwise, despite its content, it would never have released.
 
 
 Doing the work is more important than these things. What comes of it is of no consequence to me. I did a commercial hit like 'Tridev', but it did nothing to my market value, or my attitude, or the movies I did after that. I wasn’t flooded with offers even after 'Mohra’s' success. Instead, I had a steady stream of roles that no one would do, because people felt I can deliver the goods. Not that my name adds anything to a project, but the failure or success of my film doesn’t make any difference to me either. I did 'Welcome Back', but after that no offers man! And I’m fine that way. My career has gone off very smoothly. No turning points, no sudden showers of fame and money and no sudden dips. The best part is that I don’t need to lose my sleep over how my next film will do.
 
 
 Kundan was the bigger shock because he was in perfect health. He was still smoking away. He had done what he could do and even Om for that matter. I miss Farooque Shaikh also. It was saddening to watch Om in his last few movies except 'The Sixty Foot Journey'. On the other hand, Kundan had spent himself completely doing 'Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron'. He wasn’t happy making the other films after that. 'Jaane Bhi Do Yaaron' made his existence worthwhile. Today, I don’t want to dwell on the fact that they are no more and I won’t ever see them again. I want to live with the memories of our drama school days, my friend Om laughing and drinking with me and slapping my back. That is how I would like to remember him. I will think of Kundan’s delightful smile and genuine warmth all my life. Death is an eventuality. What you do with your life is more important. Both my friends have left me with enough memories to grow old with.
 
