JAIPUR: When Kirti Shivani purchased a flat in a posh G+9 high-rise apartment complex in Jagatpura five years ago, she did not have the faintest idea that her peaceful mornings would turn into an unending quest for safe drinking  .

 Though she had paid Rs 80,000 to her developer as water security to connect the apartment with Bisalpur water pipeline, the residential complex of 200 flats in which she stays is totally dependent on water tankers for their basic needs.
 
 This is the case of not just one complex as many developers are charging flat owners extra for supplying drinking water.
 
 The trend has caught on and many developers are levying water fund from buyers without actually investing in any eco-friendly water conservation and reuse technology.
 
 Now, prospective buyers of flats in high-rise apartments or in group housing schemes have to shell out Rs 50,000 to Rs 60,000 or even more as water security fund.
 
 Mostly, these residents depend on ground water or tankers for their needs. “When we purchased the flat, we were told that no extra money would be taken for supplying water. But every month, the developer has increased water charges by including it in maintenance charges. Moreover, the water supplied is not safe for drinking and bathing,” said Shivani.
 
 As there is no policy, the developers are fixing charges according to their whims and fancies. Residents also complained that the state government should not approve projects that do not provide water facilities.
 
 Moreover, it’s the government’s duty to provide water to every citizen at the same rate. “Like other housing colonies, the government should define charges for apartments too so that customers know how much money they have to pay and whether they are being overcharged,” said Vijay Singh, an owner of a flat in a private society in Swej Farm.
 
 This charge has become an additional burden for buyers who are already paying maintenance fee for amenities such as club house, power back-up, cleanliness, etc.
 
 Currently, for a 1,000 sq ft flat costing Rs 3,000 per sq ft, a buyer has to pay a minmium of Rs 50,000-75,000 for parking and maintenance. They have to now additionally pay another Rs 50,000-60,000 for water which increases the overall cost and puts additional burden on the buyer.
 
 The government’s recent proposal to levy charges from buyers for laying water pipes has given a freehand to these unscrupulous developers. The public health engineering department (PHED) has proposed that individuals buying flats should pay Rs 62 per sq ft of the construction area for laying pipelines from the nearest pump house to the building concerned.
 
 The proposal has been mooted on a pilot basis for multistorey buildings in Bapu Nagar, Civil Lines, Bani Park and Adarsh Nagar, covering around 10 sq km area.
 
 Ratna Kanwar, who recently purchased a flat on  , said, “The builders continue to supply water from a borewell and charge us extra claiming that water pipelines will be laid in the future. The customers have not been informed about the charges for supplying water. We don’t even know when the lines will be laid. But the developers are taking the money now.”
 
 In the absence of a proper government policy to provide water connection to these complexes, the situation is becoming grave for residents. Majority of these group housing schemes are coming in the city outskirts such as Jagatpura, Ajmer Road, Kalwar Road, Sirsi Road, Sikar Road, etc.  , a city developer, said, “The money has been taken in advance to avoid future conflicts with customers. We cannot depend on groundwater for long. We are charging buyers so as to connect these complexes to a robust network of water pipelines.”
 
 
