AHMEDABAD: Parents of the   killed in the September   will again sit on protest against   and failure to bring the accused to book. They have said that if their demands are not met, they will resort to indefinite fast and hold   like ‘rail roko’ (block trains) and ‘rasta roko’ (block road transport).

 On the intervening night of September 22 and September 23, in 2012, three Dalit youths Pankaj Sumra, 16, Mehul Rathod, 17, and Prakash Parmar, 26, were killed in police firing in Thangadh town of Surendranagar. Police have said they fired to control a clash between people from two communities. Even after more than five years, the state government has not made the inquiry report of Thangadh Dalit killing public.
 
 Valji Rathod, Mehul’s father, said, “We will first sit on hunger strike at Surendranagar collectorate or Mamlatdar’s office for two days and if our demands are not heard, then we will sit on indefinite fast. We will also hold ‘rail roko and rasta roko’ demonstrations at the same place where our kids were gunned down,” added Rathod.
 
 After the incident in Thangadh, the state government had asked the then secretary of social justice and empowerment department, Sanjay Prasad, to conduct an inquiry. He submitted his report to the government on May 1, 2013, but it has not yet been placed before the assembly or released to the public.
 
 Rathod said, “It has been nearly six years, and we are still waiting for justice. The government did not release the Sanjay Prasad committee report. Later, junior home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja had formed an SIT comprising three SPs which was supposed to submit the report in six months, but even that SIT did not submit its report so far.”
 
 Rathod added, “When I contacted those three SPs, they refused to divulge any information on the report and said that they had orders from their superiors to not speak upon the report.”
 
 “We were given 3 acres of land by the government, but later government took back the ownership of the land in revenue records. The government has not been paying heed to our demands so we will start fresh protests,” said Rathod.
 
 Radhod has been demanding copy of the Sanjay Prasad committee report since long. He along with other family members of the victims had sat on fast in August 2016 but after assurance from the government to form the SIT, they had winded up their protest.
 
 
