KOLKATA: An injection administered on two-and-a-half-year-old   over three days led to her death, stated a 11-page report by an independent forensic expert that the girl’s parents submitted to the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission on Wednesday. The commission heard the case of Oyetri’s death at AMRI Hospital Mukundapur on January 17 for two hours. The report indicted the hospital’s paediatrician-incharge of negligence and dereliction of duty.

 While AMRI chose not to react to the report, Oyetri’s parents sought the commission’s leave to submit the report, which lend credence to their medical negligence charge. In the report, a former forensic medicine professor, Ajay Kumar Gupta, stated tallying the hospital records with the post-mortem findings, he concluded the child’s death was because of intravenous administration of the injection, Augmentine 400mg, thrice daily. The adverse and hyper-sensitive reactions, which were evident in the post-mortem findings in her lung, heart, brain and stomach, only validated it, the report indicated. According to Gupta, this was due to the paediatrician’s negligence and dereliction of duty.
 
 An AMRI spokesperson said, “This is an unofficial finding by an individual expert. We would not like to comment. We will choose to wait for the findings of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission and our internal committee.” A source said the commission could seek expert opinion on anything but it wasn’t clear where such reports submitted by the complainant could form a basis to adjudicate the matter. The expert claimed he volunteered to give the opinion.
 
  
 Oyetri’s parents, Jayanta and  , had approached former SSKM professor Gupta, for the child’s cause of death and to find out if there was any medical negligence. The parents provided the expert with the hospital records and post-mortem report on January 31.
 
 The report stated intravenous administration of Augmentine 400mg caused hypersensitivity and allergic reactions, something known to even MBBS doctors. The paediatrician went ahead with her pro-active advice telephonically, never bothering to sign the treatment sheet. The report faulted her on several counts before concluding she had been negligent while treating the child.
 
 
