Nagpur: NCP’s city unit president Anil Ahirkar has demanded the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) to hand over Gandhisagar lake’s maintenance to his party.

 “The NCP, with people’s participation, will maintain and beautify the lake better than the NMC,” he said here on Wednesday.
 
 Addressing the media, Ahirkar claimed that the civic body has spent crores of rupees for beautification of the water body over many years but the lake has failed to draw more visitors. He also cited the example of Khau-Galli where the civic body spent taxpayers’ money but the project is yet to see light of the day.
 
 “Recently, an NCP delegation met civic officials and submitted a memorandum expressing the party’s wish. But the NMC handed over the work of Rs22 crore to some private firm,” said Ahirkar.
 
 NCP corporator Duneshwar Pethe, former corporator Vedprakash Arya and NCP youth wing president Vishal Khandekar were also present in the briefing.
 
 “None of the commercial projects launched by the civic body has been a success,” he said, and blamed the “wrong policy” prepared by the civic officials.
 
 “People’s participation in beautification of the lake will definitely attract attraction,” he said.
 
 Ahirkar also expressed concern over NMC’s approach to regularize city’s hawkers and demanded a positive approach towards them will actually help the civic body to generate revenue. He claimed that he had recently discussed the hawkers issue with union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. “The city MP has assured to look into it,” Ahirkar said. 
 
 To a query, he admitted that NMC needs to identify space for hawkers so that they do not cause inconvenience to both motorists and pedestrians. 
 
 Ahirkar stressed the need for regularizing vehicular traffic as the ongoing constructions of Metro rail and cement road works have narrowed down the existing city roads. According to him, city traffic is being maintained by traffic wardens of metro rail and cement road works. 
 
 He demanded to bring petroleum products under the ambit of GST so that the price of petrol and diesel should be similar pan India. 
 
 
