PATNA: Excitement was writ large on the faces of many who had prepared themselves in advance for the human chain on Sunday for different reasons.

 Gaya Prasad from Nawada district stood outside gate number 12 of Gandhi Maidan, the main venue of the event. He was wearing a kurta and cap printed with slogans against dowry. He has been fighting for the   for the past 19 years for his daughter Babita. 
 
 Babita had been married to Pramod Kumar of Sitamarhi district in 1998. After marriage, she became a victim of domestic violence and was thrown out of her in-laws’ house. “After a long struggle, we filed a court case in 2005. But we reached a mutual agreement in 2007 after her husband agreed to take her back and keep her nicely. My daughter was once again thrown out of the house and Pramod remarried in 2011,” an agitated Prasad said and added he met the Nawada district magistrate and deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi as well in the past, but justice still eluded her daughter. 
 
 Dr Priyanka Sinha of Boring Canal Road had been preparing for the occasion for a long time. She had specially got woollen ‘tiranga’ frocks designed for her two daughters. Nine members of her family, including her mother-in-law, sister-in-law, four young children and her husband, joined the human chain in the city. “We have always been vocal against dowry and child marriage. This gave us an opportunity to show our support for the cause. Thankfully, it was a sunny day. Even if it wasn’t, we would have still brought our young children. I hope this event will make a positive impression on their mind and they will remember it forever,” she said.
 
 Anshika Rani, a first-year geography (Honours) student from Biharsharif, and her brother Ankit Raj had planned to join the human chain near her residence at Mithapur bus stand in the state capital. “My brother and I had planned to volunteer for the human chain and hence I took an off from college on Saturday and came here for the Sunday’s event,” said Anshika.
 
 Her motivation for participation came from the fact that two of her close friends were married off when they had finished Class X. “They had not turned even 18 and wanted to study further, but were emotionally blackmailed to tie the nuptial knot,” she said.
 
 Ratna Kumari, a Class VII student of Kanya Madhayamik Vidyalaya, Bandar Bagicha, was excited to be part of the human chain along with her friends. As she stood on Fraser Road, her friends jostled about. “We had been asked by our principal to be part of the human chain. We came here at around 11am and stood in line till the end of the event at 12.30pm,” she said.
 
 
