KOLKATA: An uneasy calm fell on the upscale Golf Towers located at a stone’s throw from Lord’s Crossing on   and not too far from  . Three security personnel stood guard behind the big iron gate, scrutinizing every domestic help and service staff before letting them in. The heightened surveillance amid an air of anxiety was the fallout of the violence that turned Prince Golam Mohammad Shah Road at Golf Green into a war zone on Sunday night.

 Residents of Rangkal, a slum located diagonally opposite Golf Towers, went on the rampage, ransacking a tea shop on the main road and setting it ablaze as it allegedly sold drugs to youngsters from the locality. The rage was apparently triggered by the death of a neighbourhood youth, Amit Roy, who ended his life on Sunday. Armed with lathis and rods, the residents converged on the tea shop, thrashed the owner and even scuffled with cops.
 
 
  
 
 The incident might have passed as a common occurrence in some pockets of the city but it came as a shocker to residents of the peaceful neighbourhood of Golf Green. Those living in apartments around Rangkal Colony are too scared to speak, fearing a backlash, but a little cajoling lay bare their fears. “Sunday’s violence shook us. It has also done irreversible damage to the reputation of this locality, known for its peaceful coexistence. My children are scared to go out. Another round of violence may break out any time,” said Debjoy Bhaduri, a resident of an apartment block adjacent to Rangkal Colony. A resident of Golf Tower said: “When I stepped out to see what the commotion was about, I could not believe my eyes. A huge mob was ransacking the shop with rods and sticks and using foul language. For a few minutes, I could not believe this was the same area where I have been living for four years.” What is shocking is that the flashpoint was barely 200m from a housing complex meant for IPS officers. “There has been a general deterioration in law and order in the area. Bikers without helmet race after sundown. Some tea shops have become a place for outsiders to congregate and create a ruckus,” said Ambalika Ghosh, another resident.
 
 A distinctive feature of Golf Green, spread across wards 93, 94, 95 and 99, is the rapid transformation of small houses into multi-storeyed buildings, with highrises coming up in the locality. Several of them are under construction. “Even till 10 years ago, this place looked like asmall pocket of Salt Lake with standalone houses and lots of greenery. But several of these houses have made way for apartment blocks. Since the area is known for tranquillity, these apartments are of huge demand and the prices, too, are steep,” said a real estate developer in the area. An apartment in Signature, a 24-storied tower coming up on Golf Club Road, costs over Rs 1.2 crore. “People are spending so much money to buy flats here, hoping for a peaceful atmosphere. But these frequent clashes are damaging the reputation of the area,’ said a resident of Chotushkon, a complex on Golf Club Road.
 
 Local Trinamool leader and chairman of Borough X Tapan Dasgupta said he was aware of the anxiety among residents but there was nothing to panic about. “I have asked cops to ensure no such incident takes place in future,” he said.
 
 
