Shruti Sharma, who won hearts with her acting on the reality show 'India’s Next Superstar', might not have won in the show, but this Lucknow girl says that she is still on cloud nine at the moment. A special mention award was given to Shruti by mentors   and  . "I am not feeling bad at all that I could not win the trophy, instead I am really happy because the way Karan sir and Rohit sir mentioned my name as a special recognition, was really overwhelming. Honestly mann mein koi malaal nahi hai because I had never thought I will win this show or even reach the finale. When my name was announced with a special mention, I was really filled with joy and happiness. Each one of us have our own destiny and at the end of the day all the contestants had put in equal amount of hard work. I am really very happy for my fellow contestants who won the trophy," shares Shruti who will soon be seen in  's film 'Daas Dev'. 
However, Shruti feels that being from a small place like Lucknow, she had to face a lot of discrimination on the show, which she took in her stride. "I had to face a lot discrimination on the show being from Lucknow. But the best part is that I never took all these things in a negative way and instead took them positively and started putting in more efforts into my acts. So in a way those comments and remarks made by people on the show really proved beneficial for me. Yes, I would not lie that initially those comments used to bother me but bahut thoda sa," says Shruti.
 Staying in Mumbai for some time now, Shruti is looking forward to being back home in Lucknow. "Lucknow mein jo sukoon hai woh kahin aur nahi ha, especially in a fast paced city like Mumbai,” she said, adding, “Hum Lucknow ke log chatore hote hain and I have got bored of eating Mumbai ka khaana. The thing that I miss the most in Mumbai is the authentic chaat of Lucknow. During our training as actors on the show, we were given a particular diet which was tasteless as I have always been used to chatpata food of Lucknow."
 Shruti, who is a trained   dancer and a diploma holder in creative writing, says that she always wanted to become an actor and that she loves being in front of the camera. "The acting bug bit me when I was a kid. In fact, at a very young age, I started writing, directing and and acting in plays. Though I am a trained Bharatnatyam dancer, I always saw myself as an actor. However, the journey was not an easy one for me as my parents were not ready to send me to Mumbai and had given me a warning that if I don’t find work in two years then I will be called back. They knew that a life of an actor is full of struggle in Mumbai," shared the actress. 
 
