

 
 
 I am an actor and I am proud to be one. You are either born charismatic or not, you can’t work on being charismatic. All superstars have the ability to command people’s attention — be it Shah Rukh Khan,   or Akshay Kumar. When their films are releasing, people are not bothered about the subject; they are just concerned about their favourite star’s movie hitting the theaters on Eid, Diwali or Christmas. On the other hand, we have to work extra hard to get people interested in our films. We have to talk about our subject, details, nuances and performances. Actors like us are the working class and they (superstars) are the capitalists (smiles!). I would love it if all my films get a great opening like their films do, but to get that, I will not leave my love for my craft and independent cinema. It has given me a wide variety of roles to evolve as a person and an actor. 
 
 
 (Laughs!) I won’t say that, but yes, there are many actors who have earned a place in the industry purely because of their talent. Things are looking good for independent cinema and actors who are not here because of their charm or personality, but purely because of their performance. 
 
 
 
 It was 'Padmaavat’s' disadvantage that they had to go through a lot in terms of threat and intimidation. That was sad and tragic, and it should not have happened. But if you look at the advantage, since the controversy didn’t cease to die, the film became the talk of the town. Who is going to compete with a film that has been so widely discussed? We made our film with blood and sweat. Our director ( ) was not even keeping well and yet, he pulled it through, purely because he believed in the film. We are proud of what we’ve made.
 
 
 I didn’t know that this tweet was referring to Akshay and you have to take my word for it. A journalist wrote a line (tweet) without naming anybody or anything, which I thought was interesting. It made me laugh, so I reacted to it with a laughter emoji. It was purely a reaction to the tweet, which I thought was relevant to our lives. But it was turned into something nasty, and once I realised that my intention was misconstrued, I deleted it. How can I take a dig at Akshay? He knows that I have immense respect for him. We’ve worked together, it was ridiculous.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Yes, we have a great equation. Neeraj is a very private person, he is not the kind who attends movie screenings or goes to restaurants. He doesn’t socialise much. Just like me, he has a set number of friends. We connect on various levels as our cultural and emotional values are similar. Also, I look up to him. He is a rare talent in mainstream cinema.
 
 
 
 His research is extensive, but 'Aiyaary' talks about the working of an Army in a big city. It’s a different film as it doesn’t delve into the border conflict and goes beyond covert operations and army intelligence. It delves into the relationship between two army men and their difference of opinion. 
 
 
 
 I am too old for that. I genuinely feel that if a director thinks you are right for a role, he will come to you like Anurag did. I have known Anurag (Kashyap) since the time he was 22, and I always treated him like a younger brother, but today, I treat him like my boss. You have to give it to him for the manner in which he has evolved as a person and a filmmaker. Anurag, Neeraj, Hansal, RGV, Prakash Jha... they are my strength. As an actor, I need great directors and scripts. Without that, actors are nothing. 
 
 
 
 I don’t know why they call it commercial. When a genre is simplistic in its form, it’s called mainstream, which is fine. Neeraj makes intelligent mainstream cinema. He not only caters to the intellectuals, but he also understands the sensibilities of a common man sitting somewhere in a small-town theatre. In my opinion, a bad film will always be a bad film even if it makes Rs 200 crore. Let’s not say that a film is fantastic because it made Rs 200 crore. After two years, nobody is going to remember that film. We only remember good performances. A film is either good or bad. As artistes, we should only focus on the creative aspect of cinema, let the stats be handled by those in charge of it. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 I always look for light-hearted comedies, films where there’s more to the story than slapstick humour. ' ' was such a film, with an underlying message, but it got stuck with the Censor Board for so long that eventually when it released, it went unnoticed. 
 
 
 
 I am non-judgemental about it. As a family, we were taught to stand up whenever the National Anthem plays and that’s inbuilt in me. I don’t have to make an effort to stand up for it, but at the same time, if the person sitting next to me doesn’t do so, that doesn’t mean his love for the country is any less. For instance, in my family, we don’t kiss our mother and tell her, ‘We love you, mom’ 10 times a day, but my daughter does it. Just because she says she loves me 10 times a day, it doesn’t mean that her love for me is more than my love for my parents. You have to be non-judgemental to coexist in society and make the environment peaceful and healthy. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
