Nagpur: Students and parents are distraught with CBSE’s decision to hold a re-exam of Std X Math and Std XII Economics papers, with many calling it unfair. CBSE’s official statement on reason for re-exam too is very vague and it mentions about board ‘taking cognizance of certain happenings’, which fuelled more speculation on social media. 

 Adv Amit Khare, a parent, said, “My daugther is asking me what was her mistake. She studied hard for entire year and would have easily score 75-plus marks (out of 80) but now she has to put in the entire effort again. Since CBSE sets such high standards for students and schools, the least it can do is adhere to some of them.” 
 
 Another parent, Sharad Aggarwal, said, “My daughter is very disturbed because of this news since she had studied very hard and performed well in the exam. Now all that hardwork is gone as she will have to repeat the exam.” 
 
 Students too are unhappy with the CBSE decision. Vaibhav Mundra, a student of Jain International School, said, “I am not at all in favour of giving a retest. The paper may have got leaked but, we didn’t have any idea of it. Also, our paper was easy and I am sure the re-exam is going to be tougher than the one which we gave.” Bhuvesh Jaiswal, a student of Central India Public School, said, “My parents and I are not at all in support for the mess CBSE has created. It was their responsibility to handle the confidentiality of paper.”
 
 Arya Asolkar, a student of Narayana Vidyalayam (Wardha Road), said, “This is very disappointing because now I have to study all over again and appear for the exam. It is like a nightmare for me and I feel like a victim. What if the paper is hard this time?” 
 
 Adolescent counsellor Dr Rajiv Mohta said students would have to come to terms with the reality fast. “This is a unique situation and unfortunately students don’t have a choice. CBSE has made a decision and the re-exam will happen. I would suggest students must think of Wednesday’s exam as a prelim that was done at school, and the re-test as the board exam that follows. This way the thinking pattern starts changing and positivity will emerge,” he said. 
 
 Zeenat Syed, principal of Podar International (Besa), said, “Since afternoon students have been calling our teachers and sending messages about the re-exam. Already on social media, it is being mentioned there would be a re-exam of other subjects as well, which of course is not what CBSE said.” To deal with this excess flow of information, Syed has called all her students to school tomorrow. “I will meet with them as discussing directly will help separate fact from fiction.”
 
 
