CHENNAI: They are treated as demigods, temples are built for them, idlis are named after them. The power and popularity that   enjoy, however, sometimes, tend to make them wayward when they could use the euphoria around them to become role models. 

 The Salman Khan blackbuck poaching case, where the verdict came after four years and the actor was jailed for two days, is a case in point. He was quite clearly on the wrong side of the law, but what is also worrying is the way the fawning fans who are blinded by his star power and refuse to believe that ‘bhai’ could be wrong.
 
 Deliverer of justice, friend of the poor, saviour of the helpless — the Indian hero plays all these stereotypes on screen, but when it comes to real life, the script may not always follow a similar pattern. And it is not just the badshahs of Bollywood who are found on the wrong side of the law; actors from the south too end up playing the man with serious shades of grey in real life. Take   actor Dileep’s involvement in the abduction and assault of a colleague in early 2017 — a clear case of breaking the law.
 
 Psychiatrist Lakshmi Vijayakumar feels when you have status, money, power and influence one deviates. "People put these actors on a pedestal and they in turn fail to see the difference between reality and the make-believe world. The traffic police for example, when they spot a celebrity or politician in the wrong, they are fearful to take action as they may attract the grouse of superiors, followed by the regular statement: ‘Do you know who I am."
 
 A clean image helps, especially when actors harbour an interest in working with people. In the early 1960s and 1970s, actors like MGR and Jaishankar were conscious of their image, which worked, especially for MGR when he was aspiring for a political career. MGR did not smoke, drink and avoided sexual assault scenes in films. This behaviour paid dividends in the form of votes, love and affection of the common man. "The actors should learn to draw the line. If you extend the script of the movies to the real world you are bound to attract the wrong kind of attention. To be law abiding is not difficult, it can be done if they consider themselves responsible citizens."
 
 Film stars usually get the best of everything, but when they consider themselves above the law it leads to dangerous behaviour, says S Abilasha, a psychologist. "Salman Khan was convicted in the poaching case and came out of prison in two days. What has he lost? His film career is on an upward swing and fans still queue up outside his residence. But the general morale goes down when it becomes evident that actors can pay through their way," she says. 
 
 Irresponsible behaviour can also have a lasting impact, says filmmaker P Dhananjayan Govind. "A mistake can destroy a career and this awareness has kept the present crop of Kollywood heroes in good stead," says the BOFTA Film Institute founder-dean.
 
 But the feeling of invincibility, comes from the attitude of society, believes Vandana Gopikumar, co-founder of The Banyan Academy of Leadership in Mental Health. Calling for equality, she feels people in a position of power feel entitled and they do not suffer from any sense of guilt too which is problematic. "They alone can’t be blamed, since we have fans and followers who are in own of the ‘star status’. This behaviour in many ways perpetuates whatever wrong they do. They are easily pardoned and a bad behaviour is taken lightly."
 
 Film historian Vamanan says the   streak in celebrities has often been looked upon with awe and also celebrated on celluloid. "Suicide is an offence, so is stalking, but it is celebrated by road Romeos as films justify it as the only way to woo their love interest. There are also lots of positive things films offer, people must be judicious about they believe in."
 
 The practice of treating influential figures differently under the eyes of the law has to change, insists Vamanan. "What we know of celebrities is the tip of the iceberg, deep inside they do snap due to failures and disappointments. They ultimately suffer from an identity crisis. Let us all follow moral yardsticks for all, just not with celebrities," adds Vamanan. 
 
 
