KOLKATA: After the   verdict on passive euthanasia, theatre personality   is getting a lot of enquires. The reason is a play that he had penned and directed in 2012. Titled Morono Re Ichchhamrityu Ebong, the play by   is pro-euthanasia and has already had 43 shows with the most recent one at the Theatre Olympics in Delhi.

 The trigger for writing such a play came when Chakraborty saw his domestic help being financially and emotionally ruined trying to save her husband who was in life support. The patient — a poor vegetable seller — had been hit by a truck on the highway while driving his van. The doctors had tried hard but there was no hope. The medical bills had run to over Rs 2 lakh. “I could understand how draining it was for my domestic help to pull on. She had two gold bangles left and wanted to sell them to save her husband. But the doctors said even doing that would be of no help. Since this hospital bed was occupied, another critical patient had to be kept in waiting,” Chakraborty said.
 
 This entire episode had triggered a chain of thoughts in Chakraborty’s mind about passive euthanasia. That’s when he started penning this play. “We feel that theatre always has the best impact on the urban and literate audience. That’s why we chose theatre as our weapon to create awareness on euthanasia, death with dignity or painless death,” the director said.
 
 On February 1, 2012, a seminar on euthanasia was held at Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi on this issue. “The speakers included oncologist Dr Gautam Mukhpopadhayay, psychiatrist Dr Jairanjan Ram and barrister  . There we came across many family members of terminally ill patients who shared their experiences of being care-givers,” he said.
 
 The first show was held on February 15, 2012, at the  . “There have been various kinds of reactions to the play. I have had people watching it and fainting in the galleries,” he said. At the National School of Drama show in Delhi recently, a viewer asked the director to start a movement in favour of passive euthanasia.
 
