KOCHI: In a bandage treatment, the   is shelling out crores of rupees for converting transmission lines from Chellanam substation to   and Palluruthy areas to aerial bunched cables (ABC).

 The decision was taken after branches of trees fell over to KSEB lines causing power outage up to four days on end. Had the KSEB’s ring main project, completed at a cost of Rs 250 crore, been a success, the power disruptions could have been minimized as most of the overhead lines would have been converted into underground cables. The project meant for improving the power infrastructure of the city could not be executed as planned due to pressure exerted by MLAs in 2010 to extend it to the assembly constituencies in areas they represent. The KSEB had to loan the underground (UG) cables meant for replacing all the transmission lines and distribution lines in Kochi for extending the project up to   and Udayamperoor.
  
  
 The objective of ring main project introduced under Restructured Accelerated Power Development and Reforms Programme (R-APDRP) was to ensure smooth power supply even if a substation fails due to technical reasons. Electricity would automatically be drawn from neighbouring substations and transformers which are interconnected if technical glitches develop in a substation. Major lines including 11 kV transmission lines and some distribution lines had been converted into UG cables to avoid interruption during rainy season. “During the thunder showers which lashed the city and suburbs a few days ago, trees fell over to KSEB’s distribution lines. It was a natural calamity. Moreover, it happened on a day after holiday and there was staff shortage. Still, we could restore the electricity without much delay,” said  , chief engineer, distribution.
 
 In many areas like Amaravathy in Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Palluruthy, Kalvathy, Cherlai Perumbadappu, Mundamveli and Moolamkuzhy, it took two to four days for the KSEB to restore power supply.
 
 A meeting of KSEB top officials in the district held in Kochi last week to review the situation decided to ABCs in lieu of overhead transmission lines which supply power to the   areas from Chellanam substation.
 
 A decision to insulate all the distribution lines in   areas where there is a high chance of disruption due to branches of trees touching the electricity lines was also taken.
 
 “As per the original plan, the ring main project should have been implemented in the city limits. Due to intervention by MLAs, the project was extended up to Angamaly and Udayamperoor. So, the underground cables which could have been used for replacing distribution lines in the city had to be used for implementing the project in suburbs,” an official associated with the project said.
 
 “Had the distribution lines (which distribute electricity to the consumers) been converted in to UG cables, the disruption in the city due to calamities like rain could have been avoided,” the official said.
 
 
