Women from all walks of life don’t know how to deal with their own power. The moment we realise that power, I think, the glass ceiling would stand broken. Even I used to apologise for the silliest of reasons. But now, thanks to all the characters I have played, I don’t feel the need to say sorry for everything! There are a lot of other women who are realising their potential and breaking that wall.

 
 This is the perfect time to be a woman because you have got the world finally listening and paying heed to what you are saying. In that sense I think women in the industry have managed to break the ceiling but one should leverage this advantage. I believe half the reason why women find themselves in a condition that they do today is because they allow others to take a decision on their behalf.
 
 
 To unlock your greatness remove internal barriers like time-management, guilt-management and fear-management. We need to realise that it is possible to manage family as well as work if you have prioritised your goals. We need to stop feeling guilty about not being at home when we’re at work and about not being at work when we’re at home. Perfection is the enemy. Having a mentor can be beneficial to get support and build networks. 
 
 
 I have always believed women are carved to succeed. They have tenacity, patience and perseverance. What a woman needs is to believe in herself. You believe in yourself, the world will believe in you. Stop looking for approval. Go and pursue what you want in life and be proud of it. Be willing to fail and learn from your experience. Perfection is not the key, progress is.
 
 
 A woman can unlock her greatness by looking beyond boundaries, by realising her strength and remembering that she is not weak. She can be the most capable person if she wants. Every woman is blessed with the power of ‘multi-tasking’. She should just know how to calm her nerves and juggle with her work on the personal and professional front.
 
 
 I think the key lies in being gender neutral. Women need a single-minded focus to be excellent in whatever they do, plus a healthy dose of luck to overcome prejudice and bias. While I have tasted success, the journey still has a fair way to go. I try to do my best at work, continuously raising the bar. To be on top of your profession is a long journey – learn to enjoy it. 
 
  
  
 
 Women need to own who they are and what they do. Your talents come with responsibility, hence it’s your duty to commit to developing them and actually using them. Each day you’re presented with a choice; you can either keep your potential concealed under a mountain of fears, regrets and excuses or you can release it. The best way to begin unlocking your potential is to make a conscious choice to live out the rest of today with the best you.
 
 
 The keys to unlock our greatest potential lies within ourselves. At the depths of it all, everything we seek, we already are. A positive attitude is the fuel needed to drive us. To help you stay positive, surround yourself with people who’ll encourage, inspire and believe in you. Successful women teach others and help mould future women entrepreneurs. Integrity, charity and compassion must be core to your character. Always put honour before money and help others.
 
 
 Women should look within to see what it is they are personally passionate about, what truly lights a fire in them. Perhaps, it is fighting injustice, perhaps, it’s music or art, maybe, it’s designing buildings or websites, or teaching. Too many of us go through the motions, doing what is expected of us and following what seems to be the path of least resistance, rather than introspecting. Once you find your purpose, it’ll enable you to empower other women.
 
 
 
