GHAZIABAD: An FIR has been registered against two TV   — Samachar Plus and   1 India — for running a “false” news report claiming Ghaziabad Development Authority vice-chairperson   had taken a Rs 2 crore bribe from a builder to allow the construction of shops in residential and green areas.

 The editors of both channels said the FIR was an attempt to “muzzle the voice of the media”. The police complaint accused the channels of running the news without taking the version of the GDA vice-chairperson into account.
 
 “The news channels did not verify the claims or take the version of the GDA before airing a one-sided story against the vice-chairperson, GDA secretary and the enforcement officer. They have tarnished the image of government officials. It is a criminal offence and caused damage to their professional and personal image. The entire episode has not only damaged the GDA’s reputation but also hindered official work,” said Maheshwari, also the Ghaziabad district magistrate.
 
 The FIR was lodged at   police station against the editors and local reporters of the two channels. It accused them of “threat of injury to a public servant, and assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharging his duty”, among other charges.
 
 Sources said the news report aired by the two channels was based on a complaint by a Govindpuram resident to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Prime Minister Narendra Modi alleging that a builder, with whom he had worked in the past, had paid a Rs 2 crore bribe to Maheshwari and Rs 50 lakh each to two other senior officials of the GDA to allow the construction of 48 shops.
 
 Asked about the FIR, Praveen Sahani, executive editor of Samachar Plus, said: “The channel tried to take the version of the GDA vice-chairperson, but it was never given. Through the FIR, the DM has treated us like a criminal. It is misuse of power. If the FIR is not quashed by Monday, the editor of the other channel and I will surrender in the SSP’s office and court arrest.”
 
 Anurag Chadha, editor-in-chief of News-1 India, said: “Our reporter had gone to the DM’s office but could not get her version. We have not done any crime by showing the news.”
 
 
