- By Prachi Arya

 Actor  , better known as Purab from the show  , was recently in Lucknow for the promotions of his latest show  . On his second visit to the city, Arjit remembered his previous visit to Lucknow. "I was in Lucknow a few years back as a celebrity guest for a party. The surprising part about that party was that it was in the afternoon with school and college kids around. This was quite unusual for me as in cities like Delhi and Mumbai, I have mostly seen youngsters partying in the night. However, I had a lot of fun partying with youngsters in Lucknow in the afternoon," he recalled. 
 Arjit had been in news for having left Kumkum Bhagya midway saying, at that time, that he didn’t like the way his character was shaping up in the show. Having come in for a lot of flack at that time, Arjit cleared the air when we met with him. "I did Kumkum Bhagya for three years and after a point I was getting nothing to do in the show. Even my co-actor Mrunal left the show soon after I did. I was young at that time and I wanted to explore more of my acting skills. It was a tough decision for me as it was a big banner that had produced the show," said he.
 
  
  Arjit Taneja at At Samajik Parivartan Sthal, Gomti Nagar (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 He adds, "But life does not work without taking risks. Everyone at the production house was supportive. My notice period was three months and I served for nine extra months."
 Expressing his angst over a rumour about his alleged affair with former co-star  , the actor said, "Such talks are actually ridiculous. Mrunal and I are just very good friends. Both of us really don’t care about our linkup rumours and as long as you know that you are secure in your friendship, it’s all fine and doesn’t matter what people say. Chahe woh relation   ka ho, bhai-behen ka ho, as long as we both know ki jo hai jaisa hai uske baad koi bhi bole, we don't give a damn. It's stupid about people to talk about it. My family laughs it off by saying ‘ki yeh kya ho raha hai’. My mom and dad are quite cool about it and don’t take such gossip too seriously."
 
