NEW DELHI: Her father had passed away and there was no earning member in her family. This is when a man named Rakesh, later found to be a human trafficker, approached 16-year-old Soni Kumari’s brother promising a change in the family’s fortunes if she took up a job in Delhi. She set out from her village in   for the national capital in March 2017 after being promised a salary of Rs 2,500 and a square meal a day.

 The girl, however, lost contact with her family soon after reaching Delhi. Rakesh sold her to a placement agency that forced her to work as a household help at the house of a  . On May 1, when the unpaid girl ran away from her workplace and went to the placement agency to get her dues, she was killed. Her body was chopped off into pieces and dumped in a drain. Cops found her body on May 4.
 
 Police are hunting for a woman who ran the racket from a two-room flat in  . Locals said the woman,  , and a man, Sahu, had rented the house posing as a couple three months ago. They used to bring the girls there to be groomed for the job.
 
 “We often saw girls entering the building, but found nothing alarming since there was a coaching institute on the first floor,” said the owner of a garments shop on the ground floor of the building at Bhootwali Gali.
 
 Soni’s brother told TOI over the phone that Rakesh had told him that she would be employed at a mansion where she would be given an airconditioned room, food and television. She agreed to go with Rakesh since the family was trying to make ends meet after their father, Bandhu Oraon, passed away. Her father was a daily wage farm labourer.
 
 “She was desperate to join the job as Rakesh had promised to give us Rs 2 lakh in a lump sum, apart from her salary of Rs 2,500 per month,” said the brother.
 
 On May 1, Soni left her workplace and told Rakesh that she wanted to meet the placement agency’s owner. He took her to the house in Nangloi where she met Manjeet Karketa. He agreed to pay her and made her sit in the drawing room. “Karketa then went to the kitchen, returned with a sauce pan and battered her to death,” said a police officer.
 
 Later that night, Gauri and Sahu reached there and decided to chop Soni’s body and dump it. Karketa used a large knife to cut the body into 12 pieces, which he stuffed in plastic bags and then dumped it in the drain in  . The four then returned to their village in Jharkhand.
 
 A probe has revealed that Rakesh had lured at least six girls in a similar way to Delhi. Karketa used to collect the salaries of the girls and distribute it among other gang members. The girl’s body was handed over to her brother who took it to their hometown near Gumla in Jharkhand.
 
 
