LUDHIANA: In a major twist in the BRS Nagar firing incident and violence during MC polls on February 24, Ludhiana police have dropped Section 307 (attempt to murder) from the FIR.

 Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP)   confirmed the development on Saturday.
 
 According to a highly placed source in the police, a prominent businessman and owner of Kitty Bread, Ramesh Mago, has been given clean chit in the incident. Sources said police have not found enough evidence in support of the allegations levelled by   leaders who had claimed it to be a one-sided attack carried out by the workers of SAD.
 
 Police had lodged an FIR against 62 people including Bhupinder Singh Bhinda (husband of SAD candidate from ward number 75 Sukhminder Kaur Bhinda); owner of Kitty Bread Ramesh Mago; Neetu Bajaj, her son Manik Bajaj (both are the owners of the house from where one of the accused named in the FIR was rounded up on February 28); Harpreet Minkad; Kulwinder Singh Kinda; Arjinder Singh; Sameer; Sonu; Harbhagat Singh; Davinder Singh; Sharanjit Singh; and 50 to 60 unidentified persons on the complaint of an injured Congress worker Naginder Singh Gora.
 
 Gora had alleged that Bhinda and his associates attacked him with rods, sticks and even fired at him. Notably an unidentified person allegedly belonging to Congress who arrived on the spot just minutes after the incident took the bullet shell from the spot into his possession on the pretext of giving it to police as a proof of firing. But the shell was never handed over to police. 
 
 Despite repeated attempts,   Bharat Bhushan Ashu could not be contacted for his comments.
 
 Speaking to TOI over the latest development, district Congress president Gurpreet Gogi said, “I am not aware of dropping of Section 307 from FIR, but if police have given a clean chit to Ramesh Mago, they would have done it on the basis of some proof to justify their action. However as investigation in this case is still going on, let’s wait till the officer probing the case submits her final report to the police commissioner.”
 
 
