Chennai: After touching a 7-year-low in September quarter, gold demand recorded a modest 2% year-on-year growth in December quarter on the back of robust growth in jewellery purchases. For the quarter ended December, gold demand by volume was 249.2 tonnes, compared to 244 tonnes previously.

 Jewellery demand reached the highest fourth quarter growth in 17 years, said the World Gold Council. And in terms of overall demand, the quarter showed a 5-year high. Overall, in 2017, India’s gold demand grew by 9.1% to 727t from 666t in the previous year. Industry officials attribute the rise to pent-up demand created in Q4, owing to subdued demand in the previous quarters caused by demonetisation, GST and regulatory issues. Nitin Khandelwal, chariman, Gems and Jewelley Federation added that festive demand during Dhanteras and Diwali had contributed to the seasonal demand.
 
 Also, softening of yearly average gold prices (going by WGC’s data) by 1.22% contributed to the increase in demand, they add. The average price was at Rs 29,345 in 2016 and Rs 28,985 in 2017. Jewellers also see return in footfalls and hence the demand, by 10%. “Wedding season has spurred more customers to buy and festive season demand has picked up.. Even as ticket sizes have not risen significantly, the market has picked up,” said  , MD,   Bangaru Jewellers. Some, however, add that the demand picked up during Diwali, but has not sustained.Even as wedding season led to a jump, the ticket size of purchase is lower “Post demonetisation, there is little recovery of demand and the ticket sizes have not returned to their usual. When PMLA was announced there was a 75% drop in business for 15 days and we saw a recoveryHowever, overall, we still see tepid demand,” said N Ananthapadmanabhan, MD, NAC Jewellers. The total demand at 722 tonnes, falls in line with industry estimates of 650-750 tonnes. “This increase in demand was driven by a number of events, including lower gold prices coinciding with Dhanteras, a positive economic backdrop and improved consumer sentiment, particularly in the rural areas, as the effect of demonetisation wore off. The exemption of gold from PMLA in the second half of 2017 also revived consumer purchases, helped by the transition to GST progressing along the expected lines,” said PR Somasundaram, MD India, World Gold Council.
 
  
  
