GHAZIABAD: The students of   have come out with a stellar performance in the   Class XII exams with   of Seth Anandram Jaipuria School, Vasundhara, securing all-India second rank by scoring 498 marks and Kshitij Anand of the same school scoring 497 marks to bag the third position.

    of DPS Rajnagar too scored 497 marks to share the third rank.
 
 An elated Anoushka, who scored 99.6%, said she didn’t expect such high marks. Though she scored a perfect 100 in four out of five subjects, she couldn’t do the same with English. “I scored 98 in English. In hindsight, I think I should have put in a little more effort in this subject. Otherwise I am happy,” said Anoushka. “I have been regular in my studies and followed same routine for the past two years and I guess that’s why I did not feel much pressure prior to the exams,” she said. “I made notes and kept on revising chapters regularly but English was one subject which was relatively tough to deal with,” she added.
 
 Anoushka’s mother Ranjita Srivastava, a housewife, said her daughter was studious right from the childhood. “She was always studious and took her studies seriously. She always did well in school and I was confident that she would do well. However, I never thought she would come second,” she said. Her father SP Srivastava works in the ministry of defence. “I want to become an IAS officer and hope to clear the exam some day,” Anoushka said, when asked about her ambition. Her schoolmate, Kshitij Anand, who secured third position, was away in Ranchi to attend the funeral of his maternal grandfather who passed away on May 12. 
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone, Kshitij said: “I am experiencing a mixed feeling due to the death of my grandfather, but overall I am happy with the results.” Kshitij scored a perfect 100 in English. “Scoring 100% in English has really come as a surprise as I never expected this even though I did not chalk out a special strategy for this subject. I had made notes for each chapter and revised it whenever I got time,” said Kshitij. Kshitij, whose father is a deputy director in the ministry of defence and mother a school teacher, wants to become an aeronautical engineer. “Since childhood, I had always marvelled at the planes and rockets and that stayed with me till this day. And I know this is what I want to do in future,” said Kshitij.
 
 Nakul Gupta of DPS Rajnagar too bagged the third spot in all-India ranking by scoring 99.4%. Son of a businessman, Nakul wants to join Indian Foreign Service. On the strategy adopted while preparing for exams, Nakul said: “I took it easy and did not put too much strain. Instead, I carried on with daily studies.”
 
 
