NAGPUR: With an aim to bring down the number of road accidents, the city branch of chief minister’s health relief fund has taken up a campaign to test eyesight of bus drivers. Initially, over 3,700 private school bus drivers of the city will be tested over the next two months. 

 Zilla   (ZP) CEO Kadambari Balkawade launched the campaign on Sunday. The first lot of 200 school bus drivers underwent eye test followed by physical fitness test at Hyderabad House, Civil lines.
 
 The campaign is the brainchild of Dr Kamlesh Sonpure, officer on special duty ( ) to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who looks after initiatives under CM health relief funds (Nagpur centre).
 
 Sonpure said, “Misjudgement on the part of drivers due to poor eyesight has been determined to be the cause behind most road accidents. This initiative is an attempt to address this issue to bring down the rate of road accidents.”
 
 “There are 1,844 registered school buses and vans in the city and the number of drivers could be over 3,700. We want to examine them all by February end,” said Sonpure.
 
 The OSD informed that a team of ophthalmologists and general physicians from   (GMCH) and   Government Medical College and hospital (IGGMCH) will conduct the camps every Sunday and on alternate Saturdays (if required), when the schools remain closed, at the same venue.
 
 GMCH ophthalmic department head Dr Ashok Mahan said, “The drivers are being check on three parameters. They need to have 6/6 vision, perfect colour vision, and 120 to 130 degrees field of vision.”
 
 Madan further said, “Usually, not much attention is given to checking vision of bus drivers. Such a drive will also be helpful in generating data and get a picture at the ground level. Four ophthalmologists from GMCH have been deputed for the camps.” 
 
 Sonpure added, “Based on the findings regarding the school bus drivers, we will take forward the initiative to check vision of city and   bus drivers. Our long-term goal is to cover bus drivers of the entire city.”
 
 
