CHENNAI: Students of   schools in  , whose performance in this year’s Class XII boards has been high, may stand a better chance than their state board counterparts of securing admissions to top   colleges. 

 A tough Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Advanced, for entry to IITs and NITs, and National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET), for medical admissions, have meant that many CBSE students are flocking to Anna University counselling this year, say academicians.
 
  
  
 
 Official data shows that the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) portal received nearly 7,500 registrations from CBSE students across the state, against 5,500 last year and close to 3,000 in 2012.
 
 While more than 10% of CBSE science students scored 90% or above in the Class XII exams, whose results were announced on Saturday, a mere 3 % of TN state board science students bagged similar scores, indicating that more number of CBSE students could find themselves on top of the TNEA rank list, prepared on board exam scores, say experts.
 
 Official data suggests that CBSE students normally consider TNEA counselling an option that they would choose only if they do not perform well in JEE, NEET or entrance tests conducted by top deemed universities. Many of them usually do not mind paying the token advance (nearly ?5,000) at the TNEA counselling venue if they get an admission in any of the top engineering colleges. Several don’t report to the colleges concerned before the deadline, leaving seats vacant, said educational consultant Moorthy Selvakumar. “As a result, a deserving candidate from TN state board is denied admission to these top colleges and the seats are either allotted to undeserving candidates through management quota in case of self-financing colleges or to lateral entry students in case of government colleges,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 The government, Selvakumar suggested, could come up with a separate quota for other board students depending on the number of applications received to create a level playing field.
 
 On the other hand, Ashok Shankar of the Tamil Nadu CBSE Schools Management Association, said that all these years, state board students had the upper hand with regard to Anna University counselling as CBSE evaluation was comparatively very strict.
 
 This year Tamil Nadu CBSE students performed better as the evaluation was slightly liberal due to controversies around economics paper leak. “Also, many bright students from state board schools migrated to CBSE schools after Class X. That is why there is a drop in performance of state board schools,” he added.
 
