RAIPUR: A sedition case has been filed against a Bastar-based journalist-activist, Kamal Shukla, for allegedly posting on Facebook a cartoon that ridiculed   and the government.

 
 Kanker police officials said that a case under section 124-A IPC on the charge of sedition has been registered against Shukla at Kotwali police station, following a complaint filed by a Rajasthan resident. “The case has been referred to the cyber cell for further investigation,” police said.
 
 Shukla, a journalist in Kanker, has been actively involved in agitations against alleged victimization of mediapersons in  . He heads an organization, Patrakar Suraksha Kanoon Sanyukt Sangharsh Samiti, which seeks a law to protect journalists in Bastar.
 
 The cartoon — which Shukla says has been removed by FB from his wall — pertained to the controversy over the death of CBI Judge  , who was presiding over the  .
 
 Reacting to the sedition case, Shukla said in a Facebook post on Monday afternoon: “I am not alone in expressing serious concern over the conspiracy to weaken democratic institutions in the country. Besides political parties, all those people — journalists, writers, intellectuals, writers — are expressing their opinion on this issue through their writings, cartoon and other medium of expressions.”
 
 This is not his first brush with the law. In March 2017, an FIR was filed against Shukla and another journalist, Prabhat Singh, on the charges of defamation, insult to provoke breach of peace, public mischief and disturbing religious harmony for posting and sharing a message on social media and through WhatsApp about interactions of then Bastar IG SRP Kalluri and others.
 
 Shukla, however, has been maintaining that the government and its officers were trying to implicate him after he raised questions about “fake encounters” in Maoist-affected Bastar.
 
 “Nobody can browbeat or threaten me with such goondaism. My mobile is on, the internet is functioning and Facebook is functioning with location tracking on. Neither will I will I stop raising my voice nor will my writings stop till my last breath,” Shukla’s FB post said on Monday. 
 
 
