KOLKATA: The Bengal assembly, which is usually vertically split between the ruling party and the opposition on most issues, on Tuesday witnessed rare unanimity against the Centre’s proposed divestment and closure of central   based in the state. 

 In the business advisory committee meeting on Tuesday, it was decided there would be unanimous opposition against the proposed closure of central public sector undertakings and shifting of their offices such as that of   headquarters. The proposal was jointly moved by Trinamool Congress’ Partha Chatterjee and Moloy Ghatak, Congress’ Abdul Mannan and Asit Mitra and CPM’s  .
 
 BJP MLA Dilip Ghosh, also the party’s state president, said he had a problem only with the language of the protest but not the protest itself.
 
 They all vowed to hit the road, under chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s leadership, if the issue escalated to a flashpoint. 
 
 The Centre appeared to have moved a step closer to shut down Burn Standard, one of the largest wagon-makers and a heritage company owned by the railway ministry that has created a Rs 417-crore corpus so that the wagon-maker could pay off dues to creditors, suppliers and employees. The corpus includes a provision to offer voluntary retirement to all 500 employees of Burn Standard. United Bank of India is its sole lender
 
 Bengal’s labour minister Moloy Ghatak read out a long list of central PSUs that are going to be disinvested, if not closed. The list included Alloy Steel Plant, Durgapur Chemicals, Bridge and Roof, Bengal Chemicals and Santragachi government press. Ghatak said these units could have been turned around with the provision for a small fund. With their closure, the entire Durgapur-Asansol zone would turn into an industrial graveyard, he added.
 
 Congress MLA Asit Mitra said the party would go to any extent to reverse the decision. “Burn (Standard) is a heritage institution and its closure will leave hundreds jobless and thousands hungry.” The Centre has proposed to raise Rs 80,000 crore from the disinvestment. CPM’s Sujan Chakraborty said the Centre was run via crony capitalism and was not bothered about the common people.
 
 The bonhomie across the assembly aisle, however, saw some discordant notes when the opposition’s demand for a discussion on the PNB-Nirav Modi scam was rejected. The opposition then decided to boycott all upcoming business advisory committee meetings. The proposal is now awaiting approval of the Cabinet committee, which may meet on Wednesday. Burn Standard reported net sales of Rs 197 crore in the first nine months of the fiscal. 
 
 
