Mohali: Despite being one of the top performers in the Indian Premier League (IPL) over the years, the ‘Universe Boss’   was one of the last picks in the IPL auctions. He was selected by Kings XI Punjab at the eleventh hour for his base price of Rs 2 crore.

 The initial snub hasn’t gone down well with Gayle. He is doubly determined and wants to bring down the ‘Gaylestorm’ on the opposition bowlers.
 
 “I am going to hurt the opposition bowlers this time,” Gayle said at a pre-season KXIP press conference on Friday. “I am thankful to Viru (Virender Sehwag) and the team think tank for selecting me. I know everything happened at the last minute and that has made my resolve even stronger to come out on top of my opponents.”
 
 The big-hitting West Indian cannot wait for the season to get underway. He is one of the most destructive batsmen in IPL history, having several records to his name including that of the fastest century in T20 cricket. Gayle has been a regular feature of IPL, taking part in all its editions except the inaugural 2008.
 
 Across nine seasons, he has 3626 runs in 101 matches including five centuries and 21 fifties. He averages an impressive 41.20 and boasts a strike-rate of 151.20.
 
 Gayle smashed a record-breaking unbeaten 175 in an IPL 2013 match while playing for Royal Challengers Bangalore, rewriting T20 record books during a surreal assault on poor Pune Warriors bowlers. He reached three figures in just 30 deliveries en route the highest-ever individual score in the format.
 
 Taking a cue from Sehwag, Gayle promised Kings XI fans of playing like a true king this season.
 
 “Hopefully, big things are ahead for me. I am looking forward with utmost intent. This season, I am going to represent Kings XI like a true king,” he said.
 
 Gayle stressed that he will bring all his experience into play and help the young team into achieving something special.
 
 “Ours is a good all-round team. Everyone has a role to play and in order to win the tournament, we have to put in a team effort.” When Sehwag said that Kings XI has a set of players who believe in dealing in sixes and boundaries and don't believe in singles, Gayle nodded in the affirmative and added, “I am going to provide entertainment for all the Kings XI fans out there.”
 
 Gayle’s love for dancing is well known — be it on the field or off it, Gayle always puts on his dancing shoes for celebration.
 
 Recently, he shared a video on his Instagram account where he was seen grooving to a hit Punjabi song, giving a glimpse of his Bhangra skills. Gayle could be seen merrily dancing to the hit number ‘Mundian to bach ke rahi’. Undoubtedly, Gayle is a man who is very much in demand even though he has lost his prime. Every time he takes the pitch whirling his heavy willow like a matchstick, there is a buzz in the stands and the sense of anticipation is noticeable. That noise will reach a crescendo when he dons the red and silver jersey of King XI Punjab.
 
 
