GREATER NOIDA: A 25-year-old woman and her two-year-old disabled son died in supicious circumstances after the WagonR they were travelling in apparently caught fire on Rabupura-Yamuna Expressway link road around 9 pm on Sunday night, nearly a kilometre from Rabupura police station. 

 The incident took place on an isolated stretch of road and there are no witnesses. 
 
 While the father-in-law of the woman, Madanpal Singh, who was behind the wheels, escaped with minor injuries, the woman and her son, who were sitting behind, were charred to death. Madanpal stays in Faridabad’s   with his family but had come to his native Kapna village in Khurja area of   district.
 
 The woman, Saroj, belongs to Mathura. 
 
 Interestingly, none of the villagers residing near the spot heard any cries for help or sound of the glass-windows breaking at the time of the incident. The charred remains of the car was found on the inner Rabupura link road. A gas cylinder was found on the spot while pieces of glass were strewn around.
 
 “We do not remember anyone crying for help or any sound of a vehicle’s windows breaking. We were sleeping around that time. No one knocked our door either,” said  , a villager who stays within less than 100 metres of the spot told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, the family members of Saroj alleged that she and her two-year-old disabled son Mukul were killed by her in-laws as they had been demanding dowry.
 
 According to the in-laws of the woman, the incident took place when the trio were returning home from their native village Kapna after visiting a quack where they had gone to show Mukul.
 
 “We have tried to get treatment from doctors and others. My father was returning home after showing Mukul to a quack when the petrol-cum-CNG vehicle caught fire. He broke the front window with the help of passersby and jumped out of the car,” Saroj’s husband Bunty said.
 
 However, the woman’s family asked how she and her differently abled child were left to die and no attempts were made to save them.
 
 “My daughter and grandson have been killed and put into the vehicle before setting the same afire. Bunty’s family had been troubling Saroj for dowry since they got married six years ago. We had organised the function as per our financial condition but the in-laws soon started demanding money and a tractor from the family. We were about to get our second daughter married when they again started pressuring us for five-six lakhs or a tractor,” Kamal Singh, Saroj’s father said.
 
 He further alleged that the in-laws informed the family about the death around 1.30 am with conflicting versions.
 
 “They initially said that a driver was driving the car but later said that it was the father-in-law. Earlier too, my daughter’s eldest son Raju had died because of the family’s negligence as he could not get proper treatment for a hole in his heart,” Kamal said, adding that her second son is staying with the in-laws’ family. Mukul was their third child.
 
 “Before Mukul’s birth, my daughter stayed with us for almost one-and-a-half years. She would intermittently shuffle between Faridabad and Mathura due to the repeated insults and beating at the hands of Bunty. Mukul was born in Mathura after which the family promised to resolve all issues and accept her,” he said and alleged that Rabupura police pressured them for a compromise.
 
 Bunty, however, refuted the allegations claiming that had this been the case, they would not have waited for six years after marriage.
 
 Meanwhile, even police denied to have any clear information about how the car got burnt. “It has to be seen by a technician. We have lodged an FIR against Madanpal Singh, Bunty and his mother Samundari Devi under Section 3/4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act and Section 304B(where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage) of IPC. The bodies were sent for post-mortem whose reports are awaited,” SHO, Rabupura, Rajveer Singh Chauhan said.
 
 
