NAGPUR: The Special Investigation Team’s (SIT) report on pesticides deaths has come under scanner after petitioner   termed it as an “eyewash” while demanding SIT’s reconstitution under a judicial member.

 In a fresh application filed before Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday, Anand prayed for including SIT members as co-accused in the case along with insecticides manufacturers, dealers, retailers along with local and state authorities.
 
 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi then adjourned the hearing by a week, while asking the government to file a reply.
 
 Senior counsel  , appearing for pesticides companies, informed that they were unable to secure post-mortem reports of deceased farmers. “The reports need to secure in order to find out the exact cause of deaths. However, despite using   the client has been only tossed from one department to another,” he said. 
 
 In his application, the social worker through counsel Arvind Waghmare demanded to permanently ban the use of BT Cotton seeds and also pesticides referred by the SIT in its report. Accusing the local and state authorities of committing contempt of court, he said they failed to comply with HC’s October 6 directives, where they were directed to ban the deadly insecticides with immediate effect.
 
 Terming the entire report as “ridiculous” and “anti-farmer”, the 55-year-old charged SIT for failure to conduct proper investigations into the case, particularly in terms of 52 casualties of farmers and farm-labourers. Praying for rejection of SIT report, he said it should be reconstituted with a rider that it would be monitored by HC and completed in a specific time frame.
 
 Blaming the use of BT cotton seeds for entire controversy, he said those were bogus ones, as they failed to resist the BT bollworms and forced the farmers to use the poisonous insecticides. “The government is paying royalty of Rs49/bag of BT seeds weighing 450 gms to Monsanto. At the cost of profiting the multinational companies, poor farmers and farm labourers were made scapegoats. This fact was, however, not taken into consideration by the SIT,” the application mentioned.
 
 Anand pointed out that agriculture minister   had convened a meeting with insecticides manufacturers on October 9 and made it clear that they were at fault. But despite 52 deaths, these multinationals failed to pay a single penny to their families from their corporate funds.
 
 Accusing the SIT for suppressing identity of multinational owners, the petitioner stated that neither their names not their office addresses and manufacturing units were mentioned in its report. He sought booking of owners under Section 304-II for culpable homicide for deaths of 52 farmers and labourers. If this is not enough, the report didn’t find any name of any local or state authority, responsible for the tragedy.
 
 “On contrary, the SIT concluded that offences would be registered against the farmers and farm workers, who’re found unfit for pesticide praying. It’s recommendations are an insult to the farmers and the government must tender the apology in HC,” he said, while describing SIT members as totally “insensitive and inhuman”.
 
 
