PUNE: Speeding and violations of rules by two-wheeler riders and car drivers on the stretches of highways criss-crossing Pune city are prone to accidents.

 The blame lies heavy on commercial vehicles plying on these roads, but highway police said most accidents along the urbanized highways involve two-wheelers and small cars. Transporters feel that despite complying with all the rules, the truckers are generally blamed for accidents along the highways. 
 
 “Expansion of Pune means trucks have to cross heavily populated areas along the highways. Truck drivers take the blame for accidents because they have the bigger vehicle. But we must understand how the accident occurred before inferring that the truck driver is at fault,” Mukesh Dave, vice president (western zone),  , told TOI. 
 
 Amol Tambe, superintendent of police, Highway Safety Patrol, said most accidents along the highways involving commercial vehicles happen when they hit two-wheelers. 
 
 “The fatalities are higher among two-wheeler riders or small cars on the highways skirting Pune. A majority of the two-wheeler rider fatalities are because the rider was not wearing a helmet. With urban developments around the highways, people have to traverse them. The speed limit in the city is restricted to 30 kmph but on the highways it is much more causing high-speed accidents,” he said. 
 
 Dave said accidents involving commercial vehicles decreased in 2016-17 when compared with the previous years. “With stricter rules and hefty fines, safety norms on the highways are adhered to by transporters. Very few heavy commercial vehicles plying on the highways are overloaded. For outstation vehicles crossing state borders, RTO check-posts monitor the condition of the vehicle, transport permits and other documents,” he added. 
 
 The highway police apprehend truckers for non-compliance of driving rules along the expressway. 
 
 Truckers are fined for not following lane discipline, dangerous driving without indicators, wrongside overtaking and halting along the expressway. 
 
 Like in   and Delhi, each state must have a provision for a detailed accident report, Dave said.
 
  “The report must be online every six months. It will help find out where accidents are common, which vehicles were involved, how it happened and the damage,” he said. 
 
 Regional Transport Authority (RTA) Pune officials said they were short-staffed to carry out proper checks. “We have 12 squads each with two inspectors. Checks are not as frequent as they should be. The inspectors are responsible for checking PMPML and   vehicles, looking at illegal transportation among other tasks. Many commercial vehicles are overloaded and the fines are heavy at Rs 6 per additional kg. Just one squad is involved for night checks,” an   official told TOI. 
 
 (With inputs from Joy Sengupta)
 
 
