LUCKNOW: On January 1, 2017 the then chief minister   Yadav took over the reins of   (SP) from his father   at a special session of the party at Janeshwar Mishra Park here.

 Acrushing defeat in the assembly polls and a year later, though Akhilesh has his father by his side, he is yet to rid the party of factionalism and prove his mettle as a politician who could lead from the front.
 
 Factionalism that plagued SP since September 2016 remained a nagging issue within the party all through 2017 with Akhilesh pitted against party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav and uncle Shivpal Yadav. Though Mulayam has of late sided with Akhilesh, he expressed concerned over the growing “gutbaazi” (groupism) within the party as recently as December 31 at a party function in Lucknow where he said: “Kuch log party mein gutbaazi kar rahe hain …. Isse party kamzor hoti hai” (Some partymen are indulging in groupism which is not good for the party).” The party patriarch said he had already apprised Akhilesh about it so that such practices were stopped. Though the SP founder did not take names, Akhilesh loyalists claim that Mulayam’s statements were in reference to some recent statements of Shivpal Yadav in Mainpuri where he accused senior party leader and   MP Naresh Agarwal of talking “nonsense” with regards to his statements about Kulbhushan Jadhav. In 2017, apart from factionalism, Akhilesh had to draw flak for political decisions like joining hands with the   in the UP assembly polls held earlier this year where the alliance had to face humiliation at the hands of the BJP. Mulayam had claimed tie-up with the Congress was the reason for the party’s poor performance in UP elections.
 
 Summing up the developments within the party and outside in 2017, the SP chief, who is on a holiday to Jodhpur with his family, tweeted on Sunday: “Maana vatan mein mushkil halaat rahe, siyasat ki saajish se insaani rishte taar taar rahe …. Par jo beet gaya so beet gaya …. Ab nai ibarat likhni hai, jisse ab is nai saal mein aman – chain aur pyar rahe … aur har kisi ka daman khushiyon se abaad rahe. Nai saal ki anant subhkamnayen” (Country faced difficult times and personal relations were marred with political conspiracies, but let all this be bygone and pray for peace, tranquillity and happiness for all. Happy new year)
 
  
  
 
