HYDERABAD: Indian pilgrims returning from   carry a high acquisition rate of a multi-drug resistant bacteria that cause serious diseases like pneumonia and meningitis (inflammation of the layer surrounding brain and spinal cord). The superbug, Streptococcus pneumonia, acquired during the annual Haj season has been found to be resistant to several drugs including tetracycline and erythromycin.

 
  
  
 
 
 Experts, who conducted research on pilgrims returning to India after performing Haj, suggest that there should be a follow up on the health of pilgrims in view of a high acquisition rate of Streptococcus pneumonia. India sends about 1.80 lakh pilgrims to   and Medina in   for the annual Haj. About 10,000 pilgrims from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh perform Haj every year. Hyderabad sends the largest contingent of Haj pilgrims from Telugu states.
 
 According to the expert drawn from several research institutions and hospitals including Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital & Research Centre, Bengaluru, Deccan Medical College, Hyderabad, and Khadija National Hospital, New Delhi, the population flow dynamics of Haj increases the probability of pneumococcal acquisition and amplification among pilgrims. The Haj Committee of Mumbai was also part of the study.
 
 The results of the multi-site surveillance study were published in the latest issue of the research journal,  . The research team comprised F Ganaie, G Nagaraj, V Govindan, R Basha, M Hussain, N Ashraf, S Ahmed and KL  .
 
 As part of the study, 3228 swabs of nose and mouth were collected from 807 pilgrims before they left for the Haj and after their return. The results showed an increased incidence of pneumococcal carriage in post Haj pilgrims. It was 19 per cent before and 21.8 per cent after Haj. Multiple serotype (strains) of the bacteria was found in 79 pilgrims.
 
 “Increase in drug resistance was observed in post-Haj pilgrims for tetracycline (29 per cent before and 51 per cent after Haj), erythromycin (26 per cent and 46 per cent) and levofloxacin (six per cent and 17 per cent),” the study revealed adding that multidrug resistant strains in post Haj group was 32 per cent as compared to just 11per cent in pre-Haj group. The researchers warned of potential spread within the country if no surveillance is done.
 
 
