BENGALURU/BELAGAVI: The number of women contestants may have increased in the state in the just concluded assembly polls, but not the number of legislators. Of the 2,655 candidates contesting from 222 seats, only 216 are women. 

  Women’s representation continues to remain in single digits in the 224-member Karnataka assembly: from six in 2013 to seven in the new house. 
 
  Belagavi district, though, has reason to be proud as it elected three of these seven MLAs. Of the winners, four are from Congress and three from the BJP. Interestingly, only one of the six incumbent women legislators, BJP’s Shashikala Annasaheb Jolle, retained Nippani while her husband Annasaheb Jolle was defeated in neighbouring Chikkodi-Sadalga constituency . 
 
 Prominent among those who won from the Congress include party women’s wing leader Lakshmi R Hebbalkar and Anjali Nimbalkar, a gynaecologist and wife of IPS officer  . While Hebbalkar defeated   in Belagavi Rural, Nimbalkar won against BJP's Vittal Halagekar from Khanapur. Hebbalkar and Nimbalkar are first-time MLAs, while Jolle was elected the second time.
 
 M Roopakala, daughter of seven-time Kolar MP  , was elected from KGF, while  , wife of late minister Qamarul Islam, who represented   in 2013, retained her husband’s seat. BJP candidates K Poornima (Hiriyur) and Roopali Santosh Naik (Karwar) were the other winners.
 
 The elections were no cakewalk for the three women from Belagavi, but they beat all odds, especially Hebbalkar, who had lost the assembly and parliamentary elections in 2013 and 2014. Hebbalkar’s third-time success story was sweeter because she won with the second highest margin of 51,434 votes in the district. With a master’s degree in political science and fluent in Kannada, English and Hindi, Hebbalkar’s losing rival was a two-time MLA.
 
 Nimbalkar’s victory has changed the political scenario in Khanapur, traditionally a Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) seat. From a prominent political family of Maharashtra, Nimbalkar did not lose hope after her defeat in 2013, but stayed on in the constituency and invested all she could to win the hearts of the people. She organized sporting competitions and cultural events for rural youth and women and is fluent in English, Hindi, Marathi and Kannada.
 
 
