TRICHY: Police arrested 199 protestors as the pro-Cauvery Management Board Cauvery agitation turned violent with   outfit burning BJP flag and blackening the name board of Dakshina Bharata Hindi Prachar Sabha here on Saturday.

 As many as 80 members of Makkal Adhikaram outfit took out a procession towards Dakshina Bharata Hindi Prachar Sabha on Sasthri road around 11 am. When they tried to enter the Sabha, the police prevented them leading to minor scuffle between the police and the protestors under  .
 
 Some of them started burning the BJP flag in front of the Sabha and appeared to beating up the effigies Prime Minister   with slippers. The protestors included women and a few children.
 
 While police were attempting to remove them from the spot, few others from the group got to the Thennur Bridge and defiled the name of the sabha engraved on the wall with black paint.
 
 They raised slogans against the Central government for not constituting Cauvery management board (CMB). The police managed to arrest 65 agitators including 17 women in the protest. All of them were lodged in   in Trichy.
 
 The protest witnessed a heated argument between journalists and the police personnel following a minor scuffle between the police and a media reporter.
 
 Trichy witnessed protests from Thamizh Desiya Periyakkam and   too. Thamizh Desiya Periyakkam registered their protest by staging siege protest in front of All India Radio (AIR) on Bharathidasan Salai. They also carried out a procession from Trichy corporation office raising slogans against the central government. The police arrested 30 of them spoiling their attempt to enter the AIR campus.
 
 The police spoiled the attempt of Naam Tamilar Katchi cadres to block the train in Trichy railway junction. They stopped them near the baggage scanning area and arrested 104 protestors including seven women.
 
 Sources said that the police reportedly planned to produce the Makkal Adhikaram members in the court and remand them in judicial custody.
 
 
