RAJKOT: Nitin Vaghela, who was driving the ill-fated truck that plunged of a bridge killing 34 marriage party members on Tuesday, was arrested near   town of Bhavnagar on Thursday. 

 Vaghela had fled after the   on a bike that a person named   had parked on the road. Seeing the accident,   had rushed to help the accident victims. Koli had made pictures of his bike with the registration number plate viral on social media, which helped the police nab Vaghela. 
 
 Deputy superintendent of police (SP), Mahuva, B D Chaudhary said Vaghela was going to his relative’s house when he was intercepted on the road and arrested. “He doesn’t have a license, but has been driving for the last three years,” Chaudhary said.
 
  deputy SP P P  , who is investigating the case, said Vaghela will be booked for culpable homicide.
 
 One more woman injured in the accident succumbed in Bhavnagar’s Sir T Hospital on Thursday, taking the death toll to 34.
 
 A day after the tragic road accident near   village of Bhavnagar, a message that Vaghela had committed suicide had gone viral on social media. However, the picture of the person that accompanied the message was that of Kisan Manubhai Maru (25), a resident of  , who had hanged self to death on Wednesday in Damnagar of Amreli district.
 
 On Friday, Maru’s family members, who are still in shock, took to social media urging people to stop spreading the fake news as it was hurting them. According to family members, Maru was under treatment for depression and had no connection with the truck driver or the accident. They sent messages on various social media groups saying, “Our son Kisan (Maru) has nothing to do with the accident. Without knowing the facts people are forwarding such messages. We are already in shock so please don’t hurt us more by spreading such false message.” 
 
 Maru’s brother Anil told TOI, “My brother ended life as he was under depression over three deaths in the family in the last six months. He went into depression after our uncle’s death last month. We had sent him to our maternal uncle’s house thinking that it will help him come out of depression. Somebody, who wanted to protect the truck driver, has spread this fake message with my brother’s picture which went viral. This picture was taken after police arrived at the spot. We plan to lodge a complaint against people who did the mischief.”
 
 
