CHANDIGARH: It seems that the Chandigarh muncipal corporation (MC) is waiting for a major accident to happen before it clears the   that have piled up in various sectors across the city and are often set on fire.

 A walk through the city lanes revealed that heaps of partially-burned leaves are lying in almost every sectors. Interestingly, while the sanitation staff clean the roads and other public places, these heaps go unnoticed every time.
 
 The sanitation staff claimed that they are helpless as spring is on. However, burning of the dry leaves have now become a common practice in the city. Many residents claimed that the heaps of dry leaves were set on fire at Sector 17B, and Sector 18 of Chandigarh. Such practice harms environment and also troubles the residents of the localities and commuters on road. 
 
 People said they were facing severe problems due to this, but the MC has not taken appropriate steps to clear the dry leaves from the city roads. They are not only dumped in the residential areas but also in front of government offices.  , a vendor, who runs a juice shop at Sector 17B said, “Leaves have been lying here for so many days. Sweepers usually come everyday, but they do not collect the leaves. We are into this mess since past 3 weeks. The practice of burning heaps of leaves should be checked. The pollution caused by it is a major concern for health. It’s administration’s duty to check burning of heaps of leaves and take necessary steps to ensure that collection of leaves is done in the city regularly.”
 
 Minakshi Bhardwaj, a resident of Sector 18 said, “We are facing tremendous problem here. Leaves remain scattered on roads and in parks. During morning as well as evening walks, we run the risk of slipping and falling down. Last time too, these leaves were set on fire and I think, the MC would try to attempt the same thing this time too. We want permanent solution for this problem,” 
 
 Some residents complained that they had witnessed a biker skidding and falling near the petrol pump of Sector 19D, due to dry leaves scattered on road two days ago.
 
 Medical officer of health (MOH) of MC P S   could not be reached even after repeated attempts. Though, while talking to TOI on March 24, he had assured that there are no such heaps of dry leaves lying across the city. But, the ground reality is completely different as such heaps can be spotted in almost sector.
 
 
