NEW DELHI: Protesting against the “arbitrary” sealing drive in Delhi, traders held a   at   on Wednesday asking the government to protect them from the clutches of sealing.

 More than 7 lakh business establishments in over 3,000 markets are closed today. This is the third time in the past three months that traders’ unions and market associations have decided to down shutters on Wednesday. 
 
 Major traffic chaos were reported from neighbouring arterial stretches.
 
 A large number of traders, their family members and employees gathered at the Ramlila grounds to participate in the mega rally to mark their protest at the attack on their livelihoods, trade association leaders said.
  
  
  Praveen Khandelwal said that not only traders but their employees are also participating in the rally. “Traders across the city will not send their children to schools/colleges on March 28 as a mark of protest. CAIT, All   and Vyapari and Workers Association will jointly organise the rally,” he said. 
  
  
 "Thousands of traders are participating in the strike and shops are closed in all the markets of the city," said Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary of Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT).
 
 Sadar Bazar, Lajpat Nagar, Chandni Chowk, Karol Bagh and Chawri Bazar were amongst the markets that were closed.
 
 Traders want the government to bring a moratorium on sealing. For that, a Bill or an ordinance needs to be brought in the current session of Parliament.
 
 “The Delhi chief minister should also introduce a Bill in the assembly to stop sealing and forward it to the Centre for approval. Delhi government should also notify 351 roads under commercial or mixed land use,” said Praveen Khandelwal.
 
 Meanwhile, sealing continued in the city with building departments of the three corporations shutting down 30 properties on Tuesday for misuse of stilt parking space. The drive has lost steam in the last few weeks due to non-availability of police force. The civic bodies are now focusing on stilt parking violations in residential areas.
 
 South corporation sealed 11 stilt parking spaces on Tuesday. “The central zone sealed five properties in C-Block of Defence Colony and the west zone cracked down on six properties in B and K blocks, Fateh Nagar. Three rooms, an office and four storerooms were illegally constructed in the stilt parking,” the SDMC spokesperson said.
 
 North corporation sealed 19 stilt parking units, six of which are located in Sarai Rohilla, 10 in Naraina and Punjabi Bagh and three in Sector 7 of Rohini. East corporation reported no sealing, but demolished unauthorised construction.
 
 
