PARIS:  , playing her first Grand Slam match in 16 months, fittingly went with style and statement for her opening essay. The 36-year-old, a new mother, stepped out onto the staggering Philippe-Chatrier Court dressed in a sparkling black bodysuit with a waist detailing in red. It covered everything, but didn’t hide a thing. It screamed, ‘I dare’. The American superstar wore her long black ringlets in a tight top knot that said, ‘business’.

 
 
 
 She was ready for work.
 
 The champion athlete earlier explained her choice of gear to American media, saying, “All the moms out there that had a tough pregnancy and have to come back and try to be fierce in a middle of everything. That’s what this represents. You can’t beat a cat suit, right?”
 
 
 
 On a Tuesday she took her time getting off the blocks, not in terms of the scoreboard, but in getting her game going. The 23-time Grand Slam champion, who continues to defy, breaking barriers, rewriting the book on limits, scored a battling 7-6 (7-4), 6-4 win against the other Pliskova twin, Krystyna. Next up for the world No. 451 is the tricky Aussie Ashleigh Barty.
 
 On the day of comebacks, another former queens of tennis world, two-time Roland Garros winner  , survived a mid-match slump to score a 6-1, 4-6, 6-3 win over Dutch qualifier Richel Hogenkamp in a shade under two-hours.
 
 Williams, the younger of the family’s tennis-playing siblings, delivered a baby girl, Alexis Olympia, last September. It showed in her play on a dank, dismal day. She was off the pace, carrying considerably less sting in her shots and serve. Serena was coming into the clay court Slam with a 2-2 win/loss record, from two tournaments. She was clearly missing the weight of shot against the 70th ranked Pliskova, running after, rather than calling the shots. But the fight in the three-time Roland Garros winner has far from dimmed. She underlined that in the first set tie-break, that saw her husband Ohanian on his feet, as she powered back from 0-3. She then won seven of the last eight points to seal early advantage.
 
 The American went step for step with the Czech – who is 10 years her junior – in the second set, before Serena raised her level. She served for the match in the 10th game and closed out on her second opportunity when Pliskova sent a forehand into the net. The American’s arms went up in celebration as the full house rose to celebrate her return.
 
 Serena, who had eight fewer unforced errors than her opponent, understands the importance of staying on clay. Pliskova came out swinging, she had 34 winners, five more than the legend standing opposite her.
 
 Williams, who last played here in 2016, falling in the final to  , said, “I am very happy, two years is a long time. I prepared for a long time to come back on clay.”
 
 In other first round matches played on a rain-hit Tuesday, 10-time winner Rafael Nadal, who was up by two sets, but trailing in the third against Italian lucky loser Simone Bolleli when the skies opened up late on Monday, came through for a 6-4, 6-3, 7-6 (11-9) in just under three-hours. Earlier, third-seed Marin Cilic of Croatia went past Australia’s James Duckworth 6-3, 7-5, 7-6 (7-4).
 
 Among the women, the 2016 champion Garbine Muguruza survived a big-hitting opening round encounter against Russian Svetlana Kuznetsova to score a 7-6 (7-0), 6-2 win.
 
