PANAJI: Goa Forward Party on Sunday stood by the comments made by town and country planning minister   on some domestic tourists, and said that national political parties had vested interest in trying to portray   as xenophobic.

 Specifically targeting the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP),   on Sunday said that national political parties could not be expected to speak up for Goa and for Goans.
 
 “We dismiss the recent demand for an apology from our president and   minister Vijai Sardesai by AAP in Goa with the contempt it deserves. Standing up for Goa and Goemkars demands no apology,” chief spokesperson for the party, Trajano D’Mello said.
 The regional party said that the word “scum” was meant for those tourists from   “who not only display an absolute disregard for Goa and its culture but also create nuisance and trouble” for Goans.
 
 The GFP spokesperson went on to say that some domestic tourists had endangered the lives of Goans. The party also said that the statement made by Sardesai was in reaction to a video that shows a domestic tourist urinating from a tourist bus onto the road. 
 
 “The video has angered the common Goenkar on the street, but has had no effect on AAP. AAP’s pretense of being a Goa-centric party lies exposed, as they have not only failed to stand up for the hardworking   on the street who face the brunt of this uncouth and uncivilized behaviour, but also attempt to silence those who speak for them,” D’Mello said.
 
 “Our president has been courageous enough to stand by his statement,” he said.
 
 
 
 Town and country planning (TCP) minister Vijai Sardesai on Sunday continued to be unapologetic about his remarks terming “some domestic tourists as the scum of the earth”.
 “Everyone is welcome to Goa. I also believe in ‘Atithi Devo Bhava’. I do not wish to make any discrimination between people from north or south India. We are creating a clean, green and smart Goa. It is said that cleanliness is next to Godliness. So if those coming to Goa maintain cleanliness, they are most welcome. We need tourists who keep Goa clean and green. It is a small section that is creating a nuisance,” Sardesai told the media after flagging off the Carnival float parade in Margao on Sunday evening.
 
 
 On Saturday, Sardesai had stated that he is not xenophobic. 
 
  
  
  
