PATNA:   on Saturday slammed Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi for using the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association (CPA) India Region conference as “political platform” and asked why he did not speak about the multicrore Srijan scam while referring to the four former chief ministers serving jail term in corruption cases.

 “Why did Sushil Modi not speak about his alleged involvement in the Srijan scam and CM Nitish Kumar for being named in a murder case?” Leader of opposition in Bihar assembly   Prasad Yadav asked.
 
 Yadav also said if SuMo was so concerned about corruption, why not he told the audience that a series of scams broke out in Bihar during the JD(U)-BJP rule. He said Sushil Modi should apologize for misusing the CPA forum.
 
 SuMo, while addressing the inaugural session of the CPA conference at   said, “The country is facing a situation wherein as many as four former CMs are behind the bars in corruption cases,” triggering an instant protest from the RJD members present there.
 
 The RJD members said the deputy CM tried to insult them by referring to the cases as one of the four former CMs is RJD chief Lalu Prasad, who is lodged in Ranchi jail in fodder scam.
 
 RJD national vice-president and former MP Shivanand Tiwari said, “Sushil Modi is solely responsible for whatever happened at the CPA function. He deliberately used such language to provoke the RJD members. He should apologize to public.” Tiwari said the RJD members followed their political ‘dharma’ by protesting to the objectionable statement.
 
 Tejashwi was invited to address the inaugural session of CPA conference, but he skipped on the plea that he preferred to visit the family members of martyred CRPF constable   at Piro in Bhojpur district. “Delegates attending the CPA conference are welcome to the holy land of Bihar. I was excited about the event, but in respect to the public sentiment for the martyr, I am leaving for Bhojpur. People are dismayed over the state government’s apathy towards the slain CRPF man, whose funeral was not attended even by the DM and SP of the district and about whom a minister gave a shameful statement which has evoked no reaction from the CM or the Deputy CM,” Tejashwi said in a statement this morning.
 
 Later, Tejashwi visited Mojahid’s family in the presence of hundreds of local people. 
 
 
