In an era of skyscrapers, when young architects are focused only on touching the sky, we can’t forget about the smaller, but stouter, structures that are witnesses to a number of historical events. 
CT takes a look at six such   buildings that are also part of   campuses. These iconic buildings not only evoke a sense of awe, but also a sense of history in whoever passes through their hallowed halls. Read on to explore more about their glorious heritage...
 
  
 
 
  November 24, 1856
 
  In May, 1854, Lt Col H Goodwyn, the chief engineer of Bengal, suggested that for the general improvement of the Department of the Public Works, it was necessary to establish an engineering college in Bengal.
 
 The institute, first known as the Calcutta Civil Engineering College, was set up in Writer’s Building. In 1880, the college was shifted to its present   at Shibpur, Howrah. At that time, it was the campus of Bishop’s College. There was a chapel in Bishop’s College where Michael Madhusudan Dutta took shelter after he converted to Christianity. That building is now called Madhusudan Bhawan.
 
 The authorities, in collaboration with the PWD, has maintained the heritage buildings within the campus. For maintenance purposes, the authority has opted for modern technologies. According to the authorities, these buildings were originally made of lime and surkhi, but for preservation purposes, they have used cement and sand as plaster to keep the design and architectural style intact. Moreover, 
 a floor which was damaged has been renovated. They have even preserved the wooden doors and windows.
 
  The state government used to finance the maintenance costs till the time it was under its aegis. After it became IIEST, the authorities received an amount of `592 crore from the central government, a part of which was spent for its upkeep.
 
  There is no specific body or committee for the purpose of preservation. But officials from PWD work in close coordination with various experts from the Architecture and Civil Engineering Department of the institute to preserve the building.
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  January 20, 1817
 
  Raja Rammohan Roy, David Hare, Sir Edward Hyde East, Raja Radhakanta Deb, Rani Rashmoni, Baidyanath Mukhopadhya, Rasamay Dutt
 
  First established as the Hindoo College, this college was the earliest institution of higher learning, in the modern sense, in India. The Hindoo College became the Presidency College of Bengal in 1855. This institution was the first to introduce western education in Kolkata. Originally, it was a non-governmental college where only the sons of the Hindu community were allowed.
 
 They have appointed a conservation architect for the maintenance of the buildings. The college authorities bar anything from being put on the walls. Moreover, the walls are regularly white-washed.
 
  They get funds from the state government to maintain the 
 heritage building.
 
  They have a planning and development committee headed by the vice-chancellor, Anuradha Lohia. They also work in close association with the PWD to maintain the heritage structure.
 
 
 
 
  May 8, 1962
 
  It was founded under the Rabindra Bharati Act of the Government of West Bengal in 1961 to mark the birth centenary of Rabindranath Tagore.
 
  Though the university was founded in 1962, the heritage buildings within its Barrackpore Trunk Road campus were originally the property of the zamindars of Pathuriaghata. The classes of the Indian Institute of Management, Kolkata, used to take place on this campus. But in 1976, IIM-C was shifted to Joka and Rabindra Bharati University was shifted to this campus from Jorasanko palace.
 
  Experts were brought in from London to protect the buildings from the humid climate. A special fluid was injected into the walls to make it damp-proof. There is no civil contractor to renovate the building, but conservation architects have been appointed to preserve them. Every three to four years, full repair work of the heritage building is done.
 
  The state government issues `65 lakh annually. Of this, `45 lakh is for maintenance work and `20 lakh for electrical work.
 Committee for preservation: They have a planning board that makes sure proper maintenance of the campus is taking place.
 
 
 
 
 January 16, 1860
 
 Fr Henri Depelchin
 
  The place where the college is located used to be a famous theatre hall in British times. But a massive fire burnt it to the ground in 1843. The site was bought by seven Belgian Jesuits who laid the foundation stone of the present-day college. The college opened with 30 students, and in 1862, it got affiliated to Calcutta University.
 
  To maintain the heritage building, the authorities never put any nails or posters on the walls. Every six months, the authorities white-wash the buildings. Other maintenance work is done twice every six months.
 
  They don’t receive any specific funds for maintenance of the heritage building, but a certain amount is issued for the maintenance of the entire campus.
 
  They have a separate committee to look into every aspect of the heritage building. The committee comprises of the principal, rector and other reverends who look after the building.
 
 
 
 
 July 13, 1830
 
 Rev Dr Alexander Duff
 
 Alexander Duff of the Church of Scotland, along with Raja Ram Mohan Roy, founded the General Assembly’s Institution in 1830, and the Free Church Institution in 1844. They united in 1908 to form the Scottish Churches College that was renamed in 1929 as Scottish Church College.
 
  One of the major problems in maintaining the college is termites. So, regular spraying is done to prevent infestation. The college has also taken other steps to maintain the building. For example, they have stopped holding their fest inside the assembly hall as the use of speakers was affecting the walls. Wooden beams and 
 galleries have been replaced by steel beams and cemented galleries.
 
  There is no fixed amount allocated for the preservation of the heritage building but funds are allocated as per the requirement.
 
 They have a maintenance committee for the overall development of the college. There are two levels of the governing body, the council and the senate. Apart from that, they have an internal management committee, headed by the chief of the institution. 
 
 
 
 
 January 1, 1824
 
  Founded during the Governor-Generalship of Lord Amherst, based on a recommendation by James Prinsep and Thomas Babington Macaulay.
 
  On July 17, 1823, a group was formed by the name of ‘Committee of Public Instructions’, which was directed to found the Sanskrit College in Calcutta. In 1824, a house was hired in 66 Bowbazar Street and classes began from January 1. Then, in February 25, 1824, nearly six bighas 
 of land, in what is College Square today, came under the Sanskrit College. In 2016, it became a university.
 
  The building is maintained with the help of state government. Be it civil or electrical, whenever any maintenance work is required, the authorities approach the PWD. The officials, after proper inspection, prepare an estimate. That is then forwarded to the Department of Higher Education for funds. Moreover, the old wooden and metal furniture have been repaired and painted.
 
  Since the inception of this university in 2016, the total amount spent for maintenance is round about `27 lakh.
 
  The university does not have a separate committee or body to look after the heritage building. Repair work is looked after by the registrar, who contacts the PWD.
 
 
 
 ‘The University Grants Commission has announced a scheme by which they give grants to heritage buildings of colleges. They have a committee comprised of experts having a background in the area of heritage in higher education. They invite proposals from various colleges. There is an advisory committee constituting various colleges selected under the scheme. The advisory committee meets as often as required, but at least twice in an academic year to formulate and oversee the implementation of the scheme. But colleges need to apply for this grant. If they don’t apply, they can maintain the building(s) on their own. There are a couple of campuses that have really maintained their heritage well. The authorities should ensure any deterioration in the building is attended to as soon as possible with authentic restoration procedures. At times, patchwork is done, where the quality of the fabric of the building is not adhered to. When the work they do is without help from a conservation architect, there will be issues like dampness and de-bonding of the patch material. So after maybe two years or so, problems will start showing up. KMC has an empanelled list of conservation architects. When college authorities approach them, they are guided by these architects for the restoration process.’
 — GM Kapur, Convenor, West Bengal and Calcutta Regional Chapter, 
 The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH)
 
 
 
 
 
 Think college canteen and you immediately think pakoras, chowmein or momos. But Gautamda of University College of Science, Technology and Agriculture, popularly called Raja Bazar Science College, has been serving yummy fish fries to the students since 2006. Available at `25 per piece, the fish fry is an all-time favourite of the students. “Fillets of bhetki fish are marinated with ginger-garlic paste, lemon juice, salt, garam masala, turmeric and chilli powder. Then it is kept for some time. The batter is then made with egg, corn flour and bread crumbs. The fillets are dipped in the batter then deep fried in oil,” added Gautam Dhara. Finally, a bit of rock salt is added to garnish before it is served.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
