GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The body of a pregnant woman whose husband had lodged a missing complaint a few days ago was found stuffed in a suitcase along NH-24 in Indirapuram on Wednesday. 

 The woman’s husband, a salesperson at a garments showroom in DLF Mall, has been detained on a complaint by the woman’s father, who accused him of killing her for not bringing along enough dowry. The father pointed out that his daughter, who he said was five months pregnant, had been crammed into the same suitcase he had gifted the couple during their marriage.
 
 Mala, the woman found dead, had married   in November last year after a few months of courtship. Sources said the couple had wedded against the wishes of Shivam’s family.
 
 Police said the limbs and the neck of the 23-year-old woman had been twisted to fit the body into the canvas suitcase, which can carry 15 pairs of jeans at best. There is a suspicion that   could have been strangled to death with a towel. 
 
 “We got to know about the suitcase through an anonymous call at the control room on Tuesday evening. We realised it contained the body of a woman only after opening it. The woman was wearing black leggings and a cotton top and the body had been twisted to pack it in the suitcase. It seemed she had been strangulated with a towel, which was found around her neck. The body appeared to be at least two to three days old,” said Arvind Sharma, the local police outpost in-charge.
 
 Police have not only detained Shivam but also filed a case against his parents and two brothers under Sections 498A (cruelty), 304B (dowry death), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 316 (causing death of unborn child) of the IPC and Sections 3&4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. 
 
 Shivam, who had lodged a complaint at Bisrakh police station on April 7 saying his wife was missing, told TOI he was being framed in the case. “I had filed a missing complaint on Saturday evening when I found my wife missing. Some other people are involved in this  , not me,” he said.
 
 Mala’s body has been sent for postmortem. “The autopsy report is awaited. It will confirm if she was pregnant, as her family has mentioned in the complaint. The police in   have also been informed,” said Dharmendra Chauhan, the Indirapuram circle officer.
 
 Mala taught at a private school in Ghaziabad before her marriage to Shivam. After getting married, she gave tuitions at home to augment the family income. The couple had been staying in a rented accommodation in Haibatpur.
 
 “They had been staying separately from her in-laws after a few arguments with them. Shivam called us around 10pm on April 7 and said Mala was missing. He said he had found the door locked after he returned home from duty and asked us if we knew anything about her whereabouts. Though the door was locked, the almirah had been broken and the jewellery and other valuables missing. Why would Mala do that? She had the keys to it,” said Saurabh, Mala’s nephew.
 
 Saurabh said Mala would often complain to her parents about a section of Shivam’s friends who frequented their place. “When her husband was away at work, a group of friends would come over and spend time at the house. Shivam would ask Mala to cook food for them. Whenever Mala needed to be taken to the hospital for pregnancy-related check-ups, Shivam would even ask his friends to accompany her,” Saurabh said.
 
 The woman’s father, Ram Avtar, said her in-laws had demanded Rs 5 lakh more as dowry, unhappy with what he had given them during the wedding. “Mala’s in-laws had abused her in the past over dowry. After Shivam called us to inform Mala was missing, we had launched a search in the neighborhood but could not find her,” he said.
 
 SSP Noida Ajay Pal Sharma said: “A police team had visited Ghaziabad for investigation. We are probing all possible angles.” 
 
 
