CHENNAI: As the evening bell tolls at the stables of the   in Pudupet, Prince Valiant grows restless. The 6pm bell signals dinner time for the 34 horses that comprise the mounted unit of the city police. On Monday, 21 new horses, including eight colts, were inducted into the unit that has its origins in the 17th century. And after a lull, when the size of the unit was cut to 13, the stables are lively again.

 Sources said after A K   assumed charge as commissioner, he decided to revive the colonial relic. Not only were new horses bought, the unit got five air-conditioned stables that were opened on Monday. With summer peaking, the horses will get chilled water to drink too.
 
 The new horses, brought from the Chettinad Stud farm in  , are all Indian breeds.
 
 But training these race horses for police duty will be challenging. Sub-inspector   and
 
 R Krishnamoorthy, part of the Mounted Police for more than 27 years, have been getting them ready for patrolling duty.
 
 For the equines in the mounted unit, the day begins at 6am, when they are saddled for a session in an area close to the stable till 6.45am. Once warmed up, the horses are taken out to patrol the Marina beach till 7.20am. 
 
 Back home by 8am, they are fed and the stables cleaned. By 11am the horses are given water and that is followed by a feeding session at noon. After a light feed at 4 pm, they are taken out for a walk on the campus. The last feed of the day is given at
 
 6pm. Besides, a unit of horses is taken out to patrol the beach from MGR memorial to   for six hours every day.
 
 "The feed consists of around 19 items including crushed oats, bran, horse gram,   gram, linseed, hariyali hay, carrot, common salt, glucose D and rock salt apart from supplements like fish oil and vitamin tablets," said deputy commissioner
 
 of police of motor transport wing R Ravichandran.
 
 Each horse is assigned a constable who has to ensure the animal is free of disease. However, the horses are ridden by multiple personnel so that they do not get attached to a single person. "We are teaching them to walk, trot, run and canter and also obey commands," said Gopalasamy.
 
 For the trainer, it is not easy to get acquainted with a new animal. 
 
 "Initially a trainer is given tasks such as walking, riding and massaging the animal. In a month, they are taught to saddle, mount and ride the horse with ease. Only after this, the animal will obey the trainer," said Gopalasamy.
 
 
