Ranchi: Senior   officers of four states participated in an inter-state coordination meeting in Ranchi on Saturday to draw up a plan to prevent movement of criminals and rebels to ensure peaceful urban local body election in   on April 16.

 While officers from Jharkhand, West Bengal and Chhattisgarh were present, Odisha cops did not attend the meeting and only shared information regarding the  .
 
 DIG (Kolhan range) Saket Kumar Singh said: “We have prepared an action plan covering all the issues discussed in the meeting.” He said apart from ensuring peaceful urban body elections, the officials also discussed plans for continuing anti-insurgency operations with better inter-state coordination.”
 
 Deputy inspector general of Ranchi range Amol V Homkar said: “At this meeting, a platform has been created through which SPs of bordering districts of all three states can exchange information regularly. All police officers who took part in the discussion shared inputs about improving coordination between the police of the three states.”
 
 Homkar said a detailed discussion was also held about where to set up check-posts on inter-state borders. Ranchi SSP Kuldip Dwiwedi said “We are all prepared to cooperate with each to ensure peaceful election.”
 
 SPs from five districts from Ranchi police range, three from Chaibasa range, two from Hazaribag range, and one from Palmau range, besides districts of neighbouring state including Purulia from West Bengal and Jaspur from Chhattisgarh took part in the meeting.
 
 Agendas discussed during the meeting were establishing of check-posts for preventing movement of criminals, arms and ammunitions, explosives and intoxicating material, exchange of list of names of persons who could create trouble in the elections, list of names of insurgents and criminals who have taken shelter in neighbouring state after committing a crime, preparation of action plan against extremists, criminals and anti-social elements and exchange of list of naxal leaders and squads active on the border.
 
 
