LUCKNOW: On a day when almost all anti-BJP parties joined hands to congratulate newly appointed Karnataka chief minister HD Kumaraswamy at his swearing-in ceremony in Bengaluru, UP’s two regional giants -- BSP chief   and SP president   Yadav — yet again made a symbolic show of togetherness, sitting next to each other and then waving at the crowd.

 
 Before going for the swearing-in, Mayawati and Akhilesh met separately at Shangri La hotel, where they had a closed-door meeting that lasted 30 minutes. While the two made a history of sorts by sharing the stage for the first time ever, the meeting -- their first since SP’s success in Phulpur and   bypolls -- assumed significance as it came days before the bypolls for Kairana Lok Sabha and Noorpur assembly seats.
 
 Both Akhilesh and Mayawati met and posed with Rashtriya Lok Dal (RLD) chief Ajit Singh at the swearing-in ceremony. However, while Mayawati was seen posing with   chief Rahul Gandhi and his mother Sonia Gandhi, Akhilesh kept himself to other leaders. The Congress and the BSP are likely to have a pact for MP state elections later this year. The two UP satraps later met and thanked Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who publicly announced his party’s support to the Opposition camp in upcoming bypolls.
 
 In UP, though the BSP has maintained the status quo by refraining from the May 28 byelections, party sources said that Mayawati re-assured Akhilesh that her cadre had been asked to rally behind the joint RLD-SP candidate in Kairana and SP nominee in Noorpur.
 
 
 The show of togetherness by Akhilesh and Mayawati was followed by celebratory tweets from both sides
 
  
 Kairana has 5.5 lakh Muslim voters
 
 Of nearly 16 lakh voters in Kairana, 5.5 lakh are Muslims, 2.5 lakh Dalits (mostly Jatavs), 1.5 lakh Jats, 2 lakh Kashyaps, 1.4 lakh Gujjars and 1.2 lakh Sainis. The rest are Brahmins, Banias and Rajputs. While the BJP has fielded Mriganka Singh, daughter of late MP Hukum Singh, RLD-SP has fielded Tabassum Hasan.
 
 The SP went solo for a more aggressive space in Karnataka but failed to win seats. The BSP fought in first-ever alliance with the JDS and won a seat. The victory of BSP’s N Mahesh in Kollegal of   district was the party's first in 25 years in the southern state.
 
 
