PANAJI:   won’t change for anyone or anything. Since the start of the Indian Super League ( ), not everything has gone right for the Goan franchise. There were bumps along the way, some criticism and shambolic defending. Yet coach Sergio Lobera continued to stress on the importance of playing attacking  .
 
  Lobera’s forward march has made FC Goa the most attacking side with 42 goals in 18 matches and taken them to the semifinals. It’s tricky from here, particularly with the introduction of the away goals rule but Lobera is determined to continue with his philosophy when they face off against rivals   in the first leg at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Saturday.
  
  “We understand the importance of the away goal but this rule will not make us change our style of play. In the last game against Jamshedpur, even when a draw was sufficient for us we didn’t play for a draw and went for a win. The team must continue with the same mentality. I think the last three games we got some very good numbers in terms of the goals we scored and conceded and I think this is the way we continue,” said Lobera.
  
  Goa’s attacking strength could not break through the strong Chennaiyin FC defence when they last played at Fatorda. Chennaiyin walked away with a 1-0 victory, leaving fans disappointed. Nobody in Goa can forget the 2015 final when the visitors dramatically struck late to win the trophy.
  
  Goa however, look much better prepared now. They have scored 22 of their 42 goals at home with Ferran Corominas (18) and Manuel Lanzarote (12) leading the way.
  
  Chennaiyin, though, will feel confident that they can get another important result here. They have done well on the road, winning against all the three semi-finalists. History backs them too. On the nine occasions they have faced Goa, Chennaiyin have won five times, leaving Goa to celebrate four times.
  
  “FC Goa are a very free-scoring team. They have scored lots of goals and have lots of attacking options. We need to be at our best. If you can get an away goal it certainly gives you a big advantage and we hope to get at least one,” said Chennaiyin head coach John Gregory.
  
  Unlike Goa, who rely on the strength of their forwards – Coro and Lanzarote – Chennaiyin’s forwards have not fired. Leading goal-getter Jeje Lalpekhlua (7) has gone without scoring in five games, although the coach said he has little to worry with 11 different scorers spread across the field.
  
  He will hope at least one of them will come good in the semifinal, particularly with Goa being weakened following the suspension of goalkeeper Naveen Kumar, who picked up a red card for handling the ball outside his area in their last match against Jamshedpur. The Punjab custodian was growing in confidence in the six matches he played, keeping two clean sheets in the last three matches.
  
  Now, Goa have no choice but to trust Laxmikant Kattimani, who was dropped for his poor performances and inability to keep a clean sheet for 12 matches in a row.
  
  “Keeping a clean sheet is not just the responsibility of the goalkeeper,” said Lobera.
  
  FC Goa will hope all ends well for them, at least in Goa.
