 seems to have had enough of her desi avatar. The actress, who has gone in for a bolder makeover, says, “From childhood, I grew up with a lot of apprehensions about my body and appearance. I was skinny, had acne on my face and suffered from an inferiority complex; I thought I was the ugly duckling in my school and college. Over the years, I have realised that you have to feel good about your flaws or else the world will make you feel worse. Only when you feel good about yourself will others look up to you.”
The actress is open to bold roles, provided they are interesting and does not make her look vulgar. She says, “There is a fine line between sensuousness and vulgarity. I will not cross that line.”
  made her TV debut with the show 'Tashan-E-Ishq' and is currently seen in 'Dil Se Dil Tak'. The show has undergone many changes recently, with lead actor   Shukla quitting and Rohan Gandotra stepping in to play  . “Rohan is a hard-working actor,” she says adding, “but I miss Sidharth very much; in fact, I told my producer how even today, when I start to shoot a scene, I still see Sidharth in Parth’s character.”
 Sidharth and Jasmin were close friends at one point, but they had a fall-out. Jasmin admits, “Yes, Sidharth and I were really good friends. We used to party together, eat together, go for dinners and hang out regularly on the sets. I really loved him and I love him even now. He is one of the few actors who is the reason behind my good acting skills. He used to motivate me in every scene. When I first met him, I felt that he would be high and mighty, but all that was put to rest when I saw how chilled out he was. He is also very supportive. Unfortunately, things went sour between us because of some silly misunderstanding. I don’t want to reconnect with him because I feel now is not the right time. I will wait for some time to pass before I can revive my friendship with him. Sidharth is a superb guy and has a beautiful heart. I don’t think he will hold anything against me for long.”
 Meanwhile, rumours of a spoilt equation between Sidharth,   Desai and Jasmin, who were the original trio in Dil Se Dil Tak, continue to do the rounds. Ask Jasmin if she felt insecure because Sidharth was good friends with Rashami too, and she says, “Sidharth and Rashami were not married or seeing each other that I would grow possessive of him. Why should there be insecurity? Also, there was no reason for Rashami to grow insecure because of my friendship with Sidharth? We are not in high school.”
 Originally from Kota, Rajasthan, Jasmin is a Sikh and is passionate about food. She says, “I live to eat. I can eat all kinds of food. I can cook Indian, Chinese and Italian too. I wish I had an opportunity to cook for Sidharth when we were friends.” The actress also confesses how balancing work and personal life is difficult. “I have been working for the last two years and have no time even to attend to my phone in peace. There are so many people who can party and enjoy and yet have a fulfiling career. I can’t do that. I fret and stress a day prior to the shoot. I feel nervous and at times depressed if I will be able to give a good shot. I become cranky and irritatable because I want to perform well. I am not just able to relax. Work is constantly on my mind,” she signs off. 
 
