Ludhiana: The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum has penalised a wedding band after its members failed to turn up at a marriage ceremony despite being booked in advance. 

 The forum, comprising its president G K Dhir and member Param Jit Singh, in its order on February 5 has asked R K Anand of Damoria Pull of Civil Lines and its authorised representative Raj Kumar Sharma to pay a compensation of Rs 15000 for causing mental harassment and agony and Rs 5,000 as litigation expenses to complainant Harsh Deep Vashisht of Durga Puri in Haibowal. 
 
 In his complaint, Vashisht, who works with an insurance company, said he paid an advance of Rs 5,000 and engaged the respondant parties to provide band and light arrangements at the wedding of his sister. The wedding was held at a hotel in Rishi Nagar on April 18, 2016. The band was booked on April 4, 2016. The complainant said the marriage of his sister was to be solemnized with Vikas Sharma of Sector 44-A, Chandigarh, and after taking an advance of Rs 5,000, the wedding band issued a bill on April 4, 2016. 
 
 The complainant said the company was supposed to send 11 persons and make arrangement for a mare, trolley and light from 8.30pm to 10.30pm on April 18, 2016. “A five-member band was supposed to provide service till 5am till the departure of the baraat from the hotel,” said Vashisht. He added the band company was supposed to charge Rs 13,000 for the service. When the band party did not arrive in time, the complainant contacted respondents over phone, while the wedding procession was at the gate of hotel. However, nobody responded to his calls. Later when he visited their office, he found it locked. 
 
 “The non-arrival of the band party caused a lot of embarrassment to the family of the complainant. The complainant made arrangement for a five-member band party in the morning on April 19, 2016 during the departure of the baraat. The complainant paid Rs 7,000 to the concerned band party”, said the complaint.
 
 It added that in view of deficient services provided by OPs, complainant suffered financial loss as well as mental agony. After serving a legal notice dated May 1, 2016, a complaint was filed seeking compensation of Rs 2, 07,000 along with interest @18% per annum till realisation.
 
 Taking note of contention, the forum observed, “Non-providing of services at the desired/agreed time by the respondents to the complainant may have given wrong signal to the family members of bridegroom, as if complainant or his family deliberately may not have availed the services of band/ghodi (mare) and lighting because of financial constraints etc. That certainly tarnished the image of complainant and his family members and as such, complainant certainly entitled to at least three times of paid advance amount as compensation for mental harassment and agony, but an amount equal to the advanced amount as litigation expenses.
 
 
