AHMEDABAD: The   (ECI) launched  , a  , on Wednesday. With the help of this system, people can register themselves for getting a voter card and can change the details online. The application will also help poll officials in checking inaccuracies in information related to the voters and even duplicity of cards.

 “We implement the new ERONet system in the state from Wednesday. The software will ensure that everything related to a voter is stored in a computer and the process is digitized. There is a deadline for every issue to be resolved,” said B B Swain, chief electoral officer,  . The ERONet has a countrywide database which was earlier restricted to state level, said the CEO.
 
 A senior officer involved with the programme said that the software will give the election official an idea whether the person he was enrolling in the voters’ list is a first-time voter or has multiple registrations across the country.
 
 In the present system, if someone wants to get registered in another state as a voter he has to get his name deleted from the earlier list. But with the help of this software, his or her name will get scanned throughout the country. For example, if a voter registered in Delhi wants to get enrolled in Gujarat, BLO in Delhi will immediately get information through the system that the voter is getting registered in Gujarat.
 
 Currently, people had to approach block level officers (BLOs) for registration, deletion and correction ahead of elections. After online registration, the officer said, the voters will get a unique ID with which they can check the status of the application till the completion of the registration process. The online application will simultaneously reach the election returning officer, BLO and supervisor. After receiving the request, the BLO will contact the voter for verification.
 
 The official said that in case there is a duplication, a list of all such names will be generated and the BLO will be informed with the photographs of the voters. The BLO will then get it verified from the applicant. While giving details, the applicants will have to inform if they have changed their residential address.
 
 Another benefit of this system is that the voter can upload personal details at his or her level. This will reduce chances of mistakes in voter card details.
 
 
