BETTIAH: The fear of rangdari or ‘protection money’ racket has returned to haunt traders here after an extortion letter was received by prominent steel trader  , who was asked to pay Rs 2 crore. “ We have lodged an FIR on the basis of businessman’s petition. He has also been given security,” said West Champaran SP   adding, “How can one be sure of the authenticity of the letter?”

 “We are verifying..Samir Ansari ( whose name appears in the letter) is already in jail. What can one say? It is already on internet,” the SP added.
 
 A quick check on internet only confirmed what the trader told newsmen on Thursday. “Two motorbike-borne criminals delivered a letter to my men supervising the construction of my building on Supriya Cinema road around 8.30 pm on Wednesday. I got the letter on Thursday morning and have filed an FIR and have also met SP. He has assured protection,” he said, confirming deployment of police guards.
 
 Police are also probing the threat issued in the letter by scanning the CCTV footages in and around shopping complexes and hotels on busy NH 28-B where it was delivered.
 
 “My condition is bad. I am not asking any rangdari. I’am asking for help,” it states in coarse Hindi laced with  . “I need Rs 2 crore. Hope you’ll not inform the police. If you do, the news will come in the papers. After that you will not be fit to move. around. We are used to remain in jail,” reads the letter.
 
 “ Kuchch dinon se maangne ka soch raha thaa. Lekin SP bahut tight aa gayil rahe ( Had thought of asking for some days but a tough SP had come),” the letter allegedly speaks, referring to the previous SP Vinay Kumar, now DIG. Interestingly, it was   who got Samir Ansari nabbed by the Delhi police special cell in August 2015.
 
 A dreaded fugitive, Ansari allegedly ran a crime syndicate involving narcotics, fake currency notes and real estate from Nepal after escaping from police custody in   in 2010."We tracked and nailed him on the request of   police. Ansari was about to shift to Goa to expand his narcotics racket," Delhi police DCP (special cell)   had said soon after his arrest. Taking refuge in Nepal after his escape, he established a web of terror and crime in West Champaran. The extortion note to Jhunjhunwala in Bettiah coincidentally demands delivery of the extortion amount in Nepal.
 
 
