RAJKOT: The   district collector recently issued a notification making it mandatory for all trucks and commercial vehicles to pass through toll booths following complaints that people ‘involved in criminal and illegal activities’ were bypassing toll booths by taking alternate roads through farms and private lands to avoid being traced.

 
 The industrial district of Kutch is also home to two of the busiest ports of India — Mundra and Kandla— that witness heavy movement of trucks and other commercial vehicles from neighbouring states. This makes the tracking of vehicles entering and exiting the district of utmost importance for security purpose.
 
 In all, there are five major toll plazas that a vehicle has to pass through, beginning with one at Smakhiyali, the entry point of Kutch. There is also an RTO check point before the toll plaza. The other toll plaza is at Mokha to reach to Mundra port, and then there is Surajbari toll plaza. Two other toll plazas are located at Makhel in Rapar and   in Bhuj.
 
 The notification was issued by Kutch collector   after she received several complaints from people of villages located near the toll plazas.
 
 The villagers have alleged in their complaint that some villagers have constructed alternate roads from their farms or private land to allow ‘selected’ commercial vehicles, especially trucks, to pass avoiding the toll plaza. They stated that they were facing problem as heavy trucks were passing through small village roads and due to heavy load some of the roads were damaged. 
 
 “CCTVs are installed at all toll plazas. But some people provide bypass facility through their private land. As a result the vehicles and people involved in criminal activities can’t be identified, and they can cross the district without being traced,” the district collector’s notification stated.
 
 “It is here by prohibited to allow any vehicle to bypass from private land. Whoever violates the present notification will be liable for punished under the law,” the notification added.
 
 Sources said that commercial vehicles do not avoid toll plazas to evade toll tax but to hide from the CCTV cameras installed at the booths. District administration has also asked the police to check vehicles and identify those used in criminal and illegal activities. 
 
 District collector’s notification also stated, “Some of the villagers near toll plazas are owning commercial vehicles and they don’t pay toll tax. As a result there have been incidents of clashes between toll booth agents and employees of some of the companies leading to law and order issues. Because of this kind of incidents, sometimes roads get blocked, and as a result the general public faces inconvenience and insecurity. Sometimes even emergency vehicles like ambulance and fire fighters can’t reach on time. In wake of such incidents, it is necessary to take action against those who create hurdles in the duty of the deputed people on toll plaza.”
 
 The  , too, alleged that overloaded trucks and those involved in smuggling goods pass through the ‘illegal’ alternate routes.
 
 Kutch district Congress general secretary Ghanshyam Bhati said, “Some of the BJP leaders have taken the private land near toll plaza on lease and they allow the specific commercial vehicles to pass through this route by charging them heavy price. They deal with some of the truck operators, importers and exporters and allow their trucks to pass through this route.”
 
 District collector Remya Mohan told TOI: “There are specific issues of toll plazas like congestion, and to control and regularize the issues, I have issued the notification. Now police will take a strong action against the violators.”
 
 
