MUMBAI: A special court on Wednesday discharged Mumbai   ex-president Kripashankar Singh in a multi-crore   assets case filed in 2012 because the Speaker of the previous Congress-NCP-led Assembly twice—on June 14, 2014 and October 21, 2014 — refused to sanction his prosecution under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The present BJP-led government of Devendra   was sworn in on October 31, 2014 —days after the second ‘no’. 

 There is speculation as to why in the three years since it assumed office, the Fadnavis government didn’t seek to reverse the refusal of sanction and allow for prosecution to go ahead—and if the reason for this was legal or political. 
 
 The case against Singh and his family members was registered after the Bombay high court directed the city police commissioner in 2012 to register an FIR for “criminal misconduct” under the PCA and ordered attachment of his and his immediate family’s movable and immovable properties worth crores. The court passed the order while hearing a 2010 public interest litigation (PIL) which alleged that Singh and his family had amassed disproportionate   worth hundreds of crores of rupees.
 
 On Wednesday, special judge D K Gudadhe allowed Singh’s application and discharged him from the case. Following the discharge order, the trial court adjourned the matter against the other accused—his wife Maltidevi, son Narendramohan, daughter Sunita and son-in-law Vijay Singh—to March 9 for framing of charges.
 
 Defence advocate K H Giri said relief was granted on the grounds that the economic offences wing (EOW), the investigating agency in the case, had been denied sanction to prosecute Singh. The defence said as sanction to prosecute under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act had been expressly refused by the Speaker by reasoned orders, no prosecution of the accused was legally permissible.
 
 “Cognizance of the charge in the absence of sanction is not tenable,” said Giri and added that the case against the others was unlikely to stand now in light of Singh’s discharge.
 
 In a 2015 chargesheet submitted against Singh and his family members, the EOW of the crime branch had concluded that the family possessed close to Rs 19 crore worth assets disproportionate to their known income source by almost 20%. Of this, the chargesheet said, disproportionate assets of Singh alone accounted for Rs 61 lakh—over 11% of his known source of income.
 
 In the discharge plea submitted before the special court in 2016, the defence said it had obtained copies of the sanction refusal orders of June and October 2014 by way of right to information. The plea further stated the Speaker rejected the investigating officer’s request for sanction for prosecution against Singh after calling for relevant material in the case. The plea further stated that after going through the material, the Speaker “found serious discrepancies in the arithmetic data of the income suggested by the prosecution agency in the records and found that the disproportionate assets was about (-) 0.4% and on that basis refused to grant sanction”. The plea further stated that on October 13, 2014, the investigating officer once again approached the Speaker for reconsideration of the earlier proposal for sanction. This too was rejected though.
 
 
