Want to step out with your pals tonight? Get your ghoul on! With the theme of ‘macabre’ catching on in Mumbai’s   and other hangout spots, an increasing number of   are spending their night outs, exploring the dark side in a series of fun themes, games and other activities. Think gore decor, horror-themed food, and eerie tales in the dark. Dare we say, move over   nights, board games and stand-up comedy! Here’s what the spook-leisure is all about...

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Ever huddled around a campfire in the quiet of the night, listening to ghost stories? That’s a big part of this hair-raising experience. Storytelling in the dark or by the slowly-burning embers of an artificial bonfire add to the thrill on these nights. At a horror-themed night in Bandra, artistes narrated ghostly tales around an artificial campfire. Kabir Chandra, who works at digital firm, chose to read out his paranormal encounter by way of a short story. “It was based on a true incident that took place on a trip to Bangkok. Three of us friends went into a vintage store and had the most creepy experience. I walked down this dark, empty aisle and got an eerie feeling. My head started to throb. Guess what? When we came out later, all three of us seem to have gone through the same thing as we shared our experiences to each other! Since I’m an improviser, I also added elements as I narrated my story,” he says. 
 While Ratna Saksena narrated excerpts from a new   audiobook to a rapt audience, marketing specialist Sonali Kapoor, who also moonlights as a poet and horror storyteller, recalls, “I read out the first part of a story about a girl, who gets up one morning to find a scar on her abdomen; she also finds herself reeking of alcohol. A note by her bedside had words written in calligraphic writing, it read ‘I’m back darling’. That’s all. It was an open-ended story and participants ended up adding to it and giving their own interpretations. Someone even shared that they had heard of something similar. I’m going to add the other parts to the story in the next few open mics.” 
 
 
  
  
 There are games that keep go with the theme as well. Says organiser Anuya Jakatdar, who also runs a book community, “We had a trivia session with questions about books of this genre. Winners were rewarded a horror doll. People are moving from scare-fare in books to actually wanting to experience it ‘live’.”
 Dilshad Khurana, who does pop-up moonlight cafes in the nocturnal hour, says, “The closest people come to experiencing horror is usually only on the big screen. So, there is a thrill to these fright nights as they get to experience it ‘live’, even if it is only for a few hours. It’s bringing a community of horror-loving folks in Mumbai, together.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 For many, these nights spell a new excitement and busts boredom, too. Sharin Bhatti, who has planned spook nights in Mumbai, says, “When it comes to horror, Mumbai has such a huge fan base! Of all the fun themes we’ve tried so far, this is what folks loved. It’s as though people are getting to quench their thirst for all things scary. Yesterday, when they read out an Indian original horror story, everyone got the chills.” 
 Rowan Luke, digital executive, who has attended a few horror open mics, says, “It’s so engrossing to be there, it makes you forget where you are. You just don’t know what to expect and that is exciting. It’s also de-stressing for someone like me who works in a corporate job. Wish we could have them more regularly.”
 Akanksha Gupta, senior marketing executive, has been on a post-party horror meet-up with friends. “When everyone gets tired post-partying, they unwind with these   tales. It gets so interesting to share these stories that we look forward to these sessions. We also do a horror-story exchange on our weekend getaways, which adds to the fun element. It would be really great to have occasional horror open mics and nights at cafes. It will give us a chance to meet other people who love the genre. That way, we won’t need to wait all the way for Halloween for it,” she grins.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Play around with your red ‘blood’ coolers garnished with skulls, try a vampire pasta or witch finger cookies as the food gets a creative twist, here. A recent   fare was   around death with corpse bride cookies, ‘bloody brownies’ and ‘brains on toast’. Dilshad recalls making ghost and ghoul cupcakes and spider web cookies for pop-ups. “People loved them,” she says. 
 
 
 
 
 Horror-themed restaurants around the world are giving folks spooky change in their dining experience with costumed waiters, drinks called ‘Death by Poison’ and ‘The Slasher’. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
