LUDHIANA: After launching the vertical garden project at the income tax colony, Tagore Nagar, by modifying Israeli technique to grow plants in waste bottles vertically, the IT department’s green plastic campaign got a big boost with city’s leading schools and colleges coming forward to make   in their institutions. 

 DAV Public School, BRS Nagar and Devki Devi Jain Memorial College for Women (DDJMC) are among the prominent educational institutes, which have now expressed their interest to install the vertical gardens and sought help of income tax department in the project. 
 
 According to officials of IT department, close to ten thousand saplings will be planted at both the institutes along with disposing off thousands of waste plastic bottles.   has already requested the parents of its students that if they have used plastic bottles at home, they need not throw them away. Instead, they can donate it to school for the green cause. Similarly, DDJMC too has started the initiative to collect the bottles to plant saplings in them. 
 
 Meanwhile, speaking to TOI about the development, chief commissioner of income tax (CCIT), Ludhiana, Binay K Jha said, “Green plastic initiative which is the Indianised version of various technologies prevalent abroad including those used in Israel. This initiative is growing by leaps and bounds and the impact of this great cause of greenery and humanity is echoing in all corners of Ludhiana. We are thankful to all the stakeholders including schools, colleges and corporates who have adopted this concept and done their bit for the environment and for the future generations as well.”
 
 He also added, “Another delightful aspect of this campaign is that people are coming forward with unique and innovative ideas to turn waste and hazardous materials into useful medium for planting saplings. A large number of visitors are coming to our headquarters at   to see our vertical garden. We are also getting a lot of calls from various organisations, schools, colleges, business houses to guide them in adopting this project.”
 
 
