NEW DELHI: Holding a government company liable for the death of two manual scavengers, Delhi high court directed it to   a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each to the families of the victims.

 The workers died while cleaning a   in Bawana Industrial Area, which is operated by the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC).
 
 The court said that DSIIDC, which is responsible for developing and providing industrial infrastructure facilities to the entrepreneurs, should have taken necessary steps to ensure that sewers are not opened for cleaning purposes by anyone.
 
 Justice V Kameswar Rao, in his order, noted that such a mishap would suggest a lapse on the part of DSIIDC and directed it to pay the amount to the wife and mother of victims, Tilak Ram and Bhagwan Singh, within three months.
 
 “In view of the prohibition, DSIIDC should have taken necessary steps to ensure that the sewers are not opened for cleaning purposes by anybody. Any mishap occurring would suggest a lapse on the part of the agency. Moreover, the grant of compensation would not await a decision as to who was negligent to compel the deceased persons to go into sewer lines. The liability being strict, this court is of the view that the DSIIDC shall pay an amount of Rs 10 lakh each to the petitioners (families),” observed the court.
 
 It said the PSU can later claim the money from the contractor against whom an FIR was lodged after the incident, if he is held guilty.
 
 HC’s directions came on the plea by the families, who said the victims had stepped into the blocked sewer for cleaning it, but due to non-supply of safety equipment, masks and oxygen cylinder by the contractors, they lost consciousness after inhaling gases in the duct and died on the spot in 2011.
 
 They said the victims were the sole bread earners and they have been living in poverty after their family members’ death.
 
 HC lamented how the   occurred despite “complete prohibition from engagement or employment for hazardous cleaning of a sewer or a septic tanks” under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act. It rejected the plea of DSIIDC that neither it nor any of its contractors had engaged the two victims for cleaning the sewer lines.
 
 The court said this would not absolve DSIIDC of the obligation to pay compensation if a person dies cleaning the same. “Surely, the victims would not have entered the sewer lines willingly unless someone had induced them to pay some money for cleaning it and the payment of money must have attracted them to earn livelihood for themselves and for their families. The compulsion of the dead persons was to earn some remuneration and having died in the course, someone must be held responsible for the negligence," noted the court.
 
 
