GOLD COAST: Seasoned campaigner   signed off his   campaign with another bronze medal in men’s singles table tennis competition here on Sunday.

 
 
 
 In the 3-4th place match, the 35-year-old Indian defeated   of England 4-1 (11-7, 11-9, 9-11, 11-6, 12-10) at the Oxenford Studios. It was Kamal’s third medal in singles after winning gold in Melbourne (2006) and bronze in New Delhi (2010).
 
 “In the 3-4 match, I beat Samuel Walker from England. I did well there as it was the last match for us. And it was a chance for us win medals in all the categories as we had won in all except the men’s singles. I actually was in with a good chance (in the semis) but then I lost to the top seed,” Kamal told TOI.
 
 “I’m glad with my performance as I won one gold, one silver and one bronze. I won the gold in men’s team, silver in men’s doubles and bronze in men’s singles. It was pretty tiring. I did know that it would be tiring because in 2014 I was more tired. But then I was little bit more prepared. But at the end of it, I’m happy,” he added.
 
 Commenting on Indian paddlers’ performance, Kamal said it was unexpected. “We never expected this. It was a big surprise. What Manika (Batra) has done is fantastic. Winning the team gold and winning the individual gold. We were only expecting a gold in men’s. But the girls raised the bar to a new level,” Kamal said.
 
 The seasoned campaigner hoped that table tennis will now get more support from sponsors. “I hope our future is very bright. With this kind of performance, we should get lot of eyeballs. Hopefully we will get better funding and importance in the sporting arena from now on,” he said.
 
 Next up for the Indian team is the World Championships beginning in Sweden in two weeks. “Now we have the confidence and things are rolling. For the Worlds, we would like to finish in the top-12,” said Kamal. “Last time we played for 24 to 48 spots and we won that division and now will play from 1 to 24 spots. Our world ranking is below 15, so if we can finish in the first 12 then we will justify our ranking,” he added.
 
 
 Continuing her glorious run at the CWG,   grabbed her fourth medal after winning the bronze in the mixed doubles table tennis competition in the company of Sathiyan Gnanasekaran.
 
 Manika and Sathiyan defeated compatriots Achanta Sharath and Mouma Das 3-0 (11-6, 11-2, 11-4) in the play-off for the third position.
 
 After winning the women’s singles final on Saturday, Batra completed a memorable run at Gold Coast with another flawless performance to become India’s most successful athlete at the Gold Coast Games. Apart from the singles gold, Batra has gold in the women’s team event and silver in the women’s doubles with Mouma.
 
 Her partner Sathiyan, who hails from Chennai, won his third medal after winning gold in the men’s team event and silver in men’s doubles with Sharath. 
 
 
