Mysuru: Close on the heels of the district administration moving to restrict public movement around the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) press in the Metagalli Industrial Area, the state government issued a notification designating the area around the facility a ‘Restricted Zone’.

 The government has clearly demarcated the boundary of the RBI press on all four sides, and the sites bordering the facility have been notified. Located in the Metagalli Industrial Area, the press is surrounded by Shadanahalli and Naganahalli to the north, Belavatta village to the east, and Metagalli to the south. The notification designating the surrounding areas a ‘restricted zone’ were issued by undersecretary to the home department K Padmini Devi.
 
 In the wake of recent   being reported in the residential quarters of the   (BRBNMPL), the district administration had written to the state government to declare the area a ‘Prohibited Zone’ under provisions of the Official Secrets Act, 1923.
 
 Although Metagalli police patrol the BRBNMPL areas regularly, and the   is guarded by the Central Industrial   Force (CISF), the area was considered vulnerable given its contiguity with many villages.
 
 BRBNMPL started a paper mill at its premises recently, and the 2,000 officers and staff working at the facility were provided residential quarters. While the facility itself is guarded by CISF staff, security for the quarters is outsourced to a private security agency. Besides thefts being reported at the homes of the employees, CISF personnel nabbed three sandalwood tree smugglers a few months ago.
 
 On the other hand, BRBNMPL authorities, the police commissioner and tahsildar have submitted a report to the district administration pointing out that a thoroughfare passing through the middle of the facility, which connects Belvatha and Belagola Industrial Area, and needs to be closed. 
 
 BRBNMPL has requested a buffer zone around the premises of the facility, and demanded that thoroughfares passing through it ought to be barred to the public. Currently, there is no buffer zone. Although it was stipulated that no private buildings would come up around the facility at the time the land was bought from the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board (KIADB), there are nearly 40 houses attached to its compound.
 
 
