
The problem of slow amateur runners getting in the way of the elite athletes isn’t new to the  . But judging by the reaction of  , who won the elite women’s event on her first attempt here, it’s possible things have never been as bad as they were on this occasion.
 
 
 “There were too many people on the course,” Gobena hit out. “Because they were also tired, they didn’t know where to go, they were going to the left and to the right. That’s why it was difficult to focus on the race.”
 
 Confident she had the race in the bag after the 25km mark, when she began to pull away from reigning champion  , the Ethiopian said she had considered going for Valentine Kipketer’s 2013 course record of 2:24:33 only for the laggards to extinguish her plans. “At one point I thought I will break the course record, but as I said there were a lot of people (on the road) and temperatures were also rising, So I had to slow down.
 
 “If these things improve, it would be possible to run a faster time,” said the 35-yearold mother-of-two, adding she had never encountered this hurdle while competing in other marathons around the world.
 
 Vivek Singh, Joint Managing Director, Procam International, the organisers of the event, sympathised with the plight of Gobena and other elite runners and promised changes for the next edition. “We are sorry that the elite runners had to face slow moving amateur marathoners at Worli sea face. The race director has taken note of this and changes will be made for the next edition,” said Singh.
 
 
 
 
 Getting a podium finish in the first marathon you’ve run is generally considered a huge achievement, but one look at the crestfallen Srinu Bugatha after the race, and you’d know how dejected he was.
 
 The armyman from Andhra finished third in the Indian men’s full race of the Mumbai Marathon on Sunday with the timing of 2:23:56. Bugatha, who normally runs in the 5k and 10k disciplines, decided to compete in the marathon three months ago and trained accordingly. “As per my training, I should’ve finished in 2:16. But the pacer slowed me down. He kept reducing and increasing the pace which didn’t allow me to settle. Also, it was really hot so that also affected my run,” he said. While he’ll take a lot of lessons from this race, he isn’t concentrating on running marathons at the moment.
 
 
 
 
 One of the highlights of reporting on the Mumbai Marathon is riding the open top bus which stays at a strategic distance ahead of the leading pack of runners. Photographers especially appreciate the experience as it gives them a great chance to capture the elite runners in full flow. However, the ride comes with a warning. With trees lining several parts of the scenic 42km course, you need to be ready to duck the moment you hear event staff on the bus shout ‘down’. Now hanging branches or leaves are easy to spot, but glass coated kite string, or manjha, not quite so. Having managed to negotiate the former without much trouble, this correspondent and a fellow scribe weren’t quite so lucky with the latter as both of us suffered cuts on our neck. Considering how manjha has often been the cause of some horrific accidents, may just have to rethink getting on the bus next year.
 
 
