LUCKNOW: Action against cybercrimes will be quicker as Women Power Line 1090 and UP-100 will be integrated for the purpose. 

 Women calling UP-100 with complaints of cyberbullying or cyberstalking will be directed to   automatically while those calling WPL for swift action will be linked with UP-100. 
 
 The more strengthened and structured services will begin by next week. The major overhaul has been in the works for three months.
 
 Officials said this step for faster action was being done for the first time.
 
 "Those in distress will not have to dial twice. The operator taking the call either at UP-100 or WPL 1090 will directly connect the call as per requirement to the agency," said additional director general of WPL 1090 Anju  .
 
 She also said that a small change had been made to the process to counsel repeat harassers. 
 
 From now, WPL would counsel the harasser in three stages. The first will be to call and warn him. If he repeats the offence, then WPL will call the offender every hour till he does not take the call. This could go on for 24 hours. If he does not take the call, then his SIM card would be blocked and his name would be sent to the telecom regulator to block it permanently. This means that the person will not be able to have a cellphone number in his name. 
 
 Gupta added that cases of cybercrimes would be dealt with by a strengthened cybercell unit of WPL 1090 itself. 
 
 Tools like IP analytics and call detail record analysis would be used. Equipment had been procured and training of four officers was complete, she said.
 
 From January 1 to March 31, 2018, there were 5,800 cases of cyberstalking or bullying reported in Lucknow.
 
 It was also found that there was a wide gap between the number of complaints coming in at WPL from urban and rural areas.
 
 "We feel knowledge about WPL 1090 is yet to reach the grassroots level. Hence, an extensive campaign will be started in schools, colleges and gramsabhas about WPL 1090 at village and block level. The police will also support us by distributing hoarding, placards and conducting workshops," Gupta said.
 
 Gupta also added that the 'power angels' programme would be checked for effectiveness.
 
 According to the scheme, girls in schools and colleges get police identity cards and are designated special police officials or power angels. They will be taught not only to protect themselves from harassment but also aid others.
 
 
