MUMBAI: A young male   from the Thane forest range strayed into a ground- floor flat in Nanipada,  , after clawing and injuring six locals on Saturday morning. State forest officials managed to tranquilize the big cat with a dart and capture it after a four-hour-long operation. The animal has been sent to   in Borivli. 

 Jitendra Ramgaonkar, deputy conservator of forests, Thane territorial, told TOI: “The five-year-old adult leopard was safely taken into custody after it was tranquilized with a dart inside the groundfloor flat in Matru Chaya building where it was confined. Local police authorities had to also manage the huge crowd that had gathered outside after news of the leopard spread in the locality.” Dhananjay Kute, an eyewitness from the neighbouring Malti Niwas building, said, “My wife Savita, who had stepped out around 7.30am, was attacked by the leopard and sustained nail and claw injuries to her back and legs. Many of our neighbours also reported spotting the animal early in the morning. By the time Savita raised an alarm, the leopard had entered Ganesh Pujari’s flat in Matru Chaya.” Kute said before entering the flat, the animal inflicted head and face injuries on other locals too. 
 
  said, “My 18-year-old son and I were asleep in our ground-floor flat in the morning when we heard cries and shouts. My wife had gone out to drop our younger daughter to school, so the main door was left open.” Pujari said as he sleepily walked towards the main door, he was shocked to see a leopard standing outside and glaring at him. “I instinctively stepped back into our living room and the leopard darted inside and jumped behind our sofa-cumbed to hide. By then, my son had also come out on hearing the commotion. Both of us fled to our safety outside,” said Pujari who runs an electrical shop nearby. 
 
 
  
 Wildlife activist   of   (RAWW) said they rushed to the spot along with forest officials by 8am to begin the rescue operation. “The mob there was highly agitated and so it was a challenge for the police, the forest department and NGOs like us to manage the crowds. In the melee, the leopard again came out of the house and then went back inside. 
 
 Wildlife veterinarian Dr Shailesh Pethe of SGNP successfully tranquilized the leopard with a dart shot and the animal was transported to the national park,” said Sharma. Activist Sunish Subramanian of   (PAWS-Mumbai), said, “I too reached the site on learning of the leopard. It is fortunate that only four to five persons were moderately injured.” 
 
 Subramanian added that two days ago, a motorist on the   informed PAWSMumbai that a leopard was spotted near Mulund. “We suspect that it is the same leopard. It may have come out of the forest to look for a prey base, which includes stray dogs,” he said. 
 
 Last month, a female leopard was spotted inside Shere- Punjab colony in Andheri (East). It took almost 12 hours for the forest officials to capture the animal.
