BENGALURU:   in   are living in “fear” due to frequent explosions coming from a  , forcing them to seek police help.

 
 “While construction work started last December, they seem to have hit a hard rock and have been using dynamite to blast it for the past few months. The number of blasts vary from day to day, but they are very loud and cause the buildings to vibrate. Some of the buildings closer to the site have cracks in the walls and shattered glasses. On hearing the blasts, people even run out of their houses,” said Sandipan B, secretary of Green Domain Layout, adding that over 5,000 people staying in the layout have been affected.
 
 On February 28, the residents wrote to HAL police, seeking immediate action against the builders. “Tremors were felt around Kundalahalli Colony area, affecting residential buildings. This is threatening the lives of residents,” reads the complaint. Two weeks ago, they held a silent protest, requesting that the   work be stopped.
 
 “BBMP officials have been helpful and tried to stop the work. But labourers resumed work a few days later. It is not as if we want the authorities to stop work completely, they must regulate it,” said another resident.
 
 Papa Reddy, assistant executive engineer (AEE), BBMP, said the Palike stopped work last week. “We have filed a complaint and stopped them from carrying out the work. Only if they resume, will we take action against them by writing to the planning authority,” he said. Residents, however, fear work will resume in a few days.
 
 We’ve necessary permission: Firm
 PK Mishra, vice-president, Salarpuria Sattva Group, said the company has all the required approvals. “The project has necessary approvals in place, including from the Karnataka Industrial Area Development Board. As always, Salarpuria Sattva is following all safety standards stringently and we are committed to pursuing the highest standards of business integrity guided by a clear and consistent code of business ethics and guidelines. We have lodged a complaint with police against the disruption of work and have appraised BBMP of the situation.”
 
