MUMBAI: As CBSE class XII students from across the country come to terms with their tough physics paper and sign online petitions for lenient assessment, a student from Mumbai sent a rather quirky note to the chairperson of the board. To her surprise, she also received a response. 

 
 A student of the  , Santaxcruz,   wrote, "This letter is regarding today's (7th March 2018) physics examination. I'm just an ordinary student. At times below the average, at times just average and rarely above. What I learned today from this exam is the importance of understanding a concept and the difference between writing a test just for marks and writing a test based on your understanding. 
 
 I've always loved science the theory and everything related to it. I love it because it's interesting, there's so much more to explore and find out, but I was told it's not my cup of tea after my 10th board result. What I feel is that our education system is training individuals just for a piece of paper that decides your worth (you may or may not agree but it's true). I'm really surprised because this time, the exam wasn't about solving past papers or doing derivations and "notes", it was beyond that and related to nothing but what a student learned from the topics and to test themselves but students faced angst, because it was unexpected and unpredictable.
 
 10th was much much easier and the best year of my life, there weren't any boundaries, no streams, no limitations to certain subjects only, we had so many subjects and so many areas to explore. But slowly it became all boring in 12th. Why so? I really wanted a stream called own, where I could do both science and arts or science, commerce or maybe everything at once. But it doesn't work this way in real world.
 
 Anyway that's all I had to say. I really don't know how I or my peers performed today, but whatever we understood, we wrote everything. All I request the board is to do something about this issue and not make institutions and exams just about securing marks, and I'm sure you can because you're powerful and wonderful." 
 
 In a response to Patil, CBSE chairperson   wrote, "Thank you for your wonderful letter and frank feedback. I am glad that you enjoyed writing the physics exam. I can see that you have immense potential and talent just by the manner in which your letter engaged me from the beginning to the end. I am sure the future holds huge possibilities for you. All the best for all your endeavors and keep up the confidence kid!"
 
