CHANDIGARH: Even after being proven guilty of two   complaints against him by Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH), PU assistant professor was being defended with the decision of 18 out of 50 senate members, who did not vote for the termination of his services. But, the decision did not garner two-third majority as 32 senate members polled to remove the assistant professor with possibility of future employment and 18 voted for demotion to a lower rank. The university senate could not take a decision even after four hours of discussion and the meeting was adjourned on Sunday.

 The next meeting of the senate will be held on April 15 in which the final decision would be taken. A total of four complaints of sexual harassment were made against the assistant professor, out of which he was proved guilty in two cases, while one was withdrawn and he apologized in another.
 
 Vouching for demotion of the rank of the assistant professor, senate member   said the former has two children and his parents are old. “His kids are minor and his medical condition is getting worse. He is the single earning member of his family. Don’t punish him to the extent that it costs him his life,” said Ranga.
 
 Meanwhile, strongly advocating for the termination of the assistant professor, senate member Subhash Sharma said, “He should not be protected. Leniency in dealing with this matter would motivate others to do such acts since they would get the message that they can do anything and then get away with it.”
 
 Ranga said that earlier too many cases of sexual harassment were reported in the university but, this assistant professor is being targeted just because he belongs to scheduled caste (SC). On this, Sharma said it was very unfortunate while deciding on such a serious issue. Senate member J K Goswami said the House should take a sympathetic view towards the daughter and son of the assistant professor.
 
 PU senate member Pam Rajput had to get up from her seat to directly address those demanding the demotion of his rank. “Have a heart to say it directly that you want to shield this assistant professor who is found guilty of sexual harassment,” said Rajput to those supporting the assistant professor to get demotion rather than dismissal of services.
 
 As per the PU calendar, three major punishments were suggested, which included demotion to a lower rank, termination from services with a provision of future employment and termination from service without possibility of future employment. The House decided that the third option “termination without possibility of future employment” should not be considered. The House decided to choose between first and second option, though vice-chancellor (VC) was clearly against giving preference to demotion of rank over removal from services.
 
 PU VC Prof Arun Kumar Grover said he could not permit the teacher to teach in the university any longer. “I can’t risk it by getting him back to teaching. His reply is not satisfactory (the reply of the showcause served to the assistant professor).” Referring to the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013, VC said the Act should be seen in the spirit of zero tolerance towards such cases. “This person cannot be permitted to teach in the university,” he added.
 
 It was then that the former VC Prof R P Bambah said as per the PU calendar rules, a person can be terminated only with the two-third majority of the senate. A major portion of the discussion was spent into discussing the technicalities, which prevented any decision on the issue. Even after the majority of the House voted in favour of removal of service disqualifying him from future employment, the decision could not be taken because some senate members chose to stick to the technicality that only two-third majority and not simple majority. Referring to the recent sexual harassment complaint against the faculty member of Dr   by a student, Panjab University dean university instructions   said, “If we don’t do something, the people committing such crimes would become fearless.” 
 
 
