GANDHINAGAR/BHOPAL: BJP-ruled Madhya Pradesh, which will hold the crucial assembly election this year, has refused to give any additional water as demanded by   ruled Gujarat. The   government has categorically rejected the   government’s demand to allocate more water to save the Narmada river.

 Considering the industry’s needs in Dahej and to save Narmada river’s ecology and the livelihood of lakhs of people, the Gujarat government had requested the Centre to increase the discharge in the downstream of the Sardar Sarovar dam from the present 600 cusecs to 1,500 cusecs. The Narmada river stretch in Bharuch has dried up as meagre water is being released from the dam, a phenomenon noticed over the past two years.
 
 M S Dagur, Gujarat’s additional chief secretary of the Narmada department, had written an official letter in January to the Union ministry of environment, forest & climate change, seeking more discharge into the river. He sent the second request to the Government of India last month. There has been no response.
 
 In January 2006, the environment sub-group of the   (NCA) had decided that minimum 600 cusecs of water would be released for 157km downstream length, either through the river-bed power house (RBH) or through the Godbole gates. However, the Gujarat government has said that 600 cusecs of water is not adequate.
 
 “In the earlier years, the total release of water in the downstream during a water year was quite significant because of the river-bed power house operation and the overflow during monsoon,” Dagur has written. “Therefore, there was no significant adverse impact in the downstream. However, over the past two years, because of the limited running of the RBPH, 600 cusecs being released through Godbole Gates is just not sufficient to meet the downstream environmental requirements.”
 
 The Gujarat government has received several representations from MPs, affected people, and NGOs who have raised serious concerns on issues such as salinity ingress, poor water quality, water depth, width of flow, erosion, and the movement of boats.
 
 “It is requested to direct NCA to come out with a solution by enhancing the quantity of water to be released in the downstream and release at least 1,500 cusecs of water in the downstream during the current water year up to June 30 or till a solution is arrived at,” the Gujarat government has written to the Centre. “This will certainly help in protecting the downstream.”
 
 A senior Gujarat government officer said: “We have once again requested the Centre to intervene and force Madhya Pradesh government to give more water. However, citing insufficient quantity, they have expressed inability to provide more water.”
 
 A key source in the   ( ), Madhya Pradesh, said: “There was commitment of discharging 5,500 MCM water to Gujarat in the water year. By January, the state had already supplied 5,000 MCM but Gujarat wanted 800 MCM more. The state assessed the availability of water in dams and refused considering the drought in MP.”
 
 Additional chief secretary and vice-chairman of NVDA, Rajnish Vaishya, said: “They (Gujarat) asked us in January to release water or give permission to use dead storage water. Then NCA gave the permission. I have no information about the letter. Only the Centre can tell you about that.”
 
