AHMEDABAD: After the suspension of the e-memo system — which had been operational for five months — physical vehicle verification by cops has yielded better results than   cameras could. Senior police officials said that over the past fortnight, 6,000   have remained impounded because riders did not have the necessary papers. “As no claimant approached us to have their bikes released even after a week, we started verification of bikes and found that a large number of them had fake registration numbers,” said additional commissioner of police, sector 2, Ashok  . He said that when the e-memo system was functional, physical vehicle verification drives were organized in a less extensive manner and cops more or less relied on CCTV camera network to trace criminals involved in chain-snatching and other crimes.

  “However, such elements had found a way out. They wore helmets to hide their faces and also fixed fake registration number plates,” said a senior police official. “Hence even when they were caught on CCTV cameras, they could not be caught.” Senior police sources said that from September 2017 to January 2018, when the e-memo system was functional, cops relied on it to trace criminals. In that period, the number of chain-snatching cases shot up to two to three per day. “However now after conducting effective vehicle-checking drive which helped us detain 6,000 bikes, the number of chain-snatching cases have drastically gone down to about one or two a week,” Yadav said.
 
 Police officials said they are conducting a survey to study crime patterns, especially in the eastern part of the city. “We will identify spots where crimes such as chain-snatching, vehicle thefts, and robberies occur,” a senior police official said.
 
 Police from across state search Kubernagar
 
 Ahmedabad: Senior police officials said that last week they had called in special police teams from all districts of the state to conduct a search. “The drive helped us identify 20 persons with criminal record from other districts and cities and residing in Ahmedabad,” a senior police official said.
 
 
