KOLKATA: The security template perfected at the Taj Mahal will be replicated at another iconic marble edifice — the   (VMH) in Kolkata. The   (CISF) that has been guarding the Taj for 15 years now took charge of   on Monday and charted out plans to introduce the three-zone security that has kept the Mughal monument out of harm’s way.

 “At the Taj, we have three zones. The green zone is outside the boundary wall and controlled by local police. Next is the yellow zone comprising the garden where access is restricted to authorized persons and visitors with valid tickets. Finally, there is the tomb that is categorised red zone where access is allowed to authorized persons only after frisking. It will be similar at VMH with door-frame metal detectors, manual frisking and X-Ray machines doing the final checks,” said CISF inspector general (northeast) AN Mahapatra.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The officer though, felt security at VMH would be more challenging than Taj Mahal as the former’s sprawling garden is also used as a picnic spot. “Unlike at the Taj where we do not allow any luggage, we are aware that picnickers will bring hampers. Many outstation visitors also carry luggage. So there will be a physical check at the gate. We are, however, not in favour of allowing any luggage into the museum building. A cloakroom has been proposed” said Mahapatra.
 
 Unlike the Taj that is situated in Uttar Pradesh where increased vigilantism discourages public display of affection, VMH authorities are keen that the character of VMH, which is extremely popular among couples, remains unchanged. VMH board of trustees chairperson and   governor   has urged the force to be unobtrusive and inconspicuous while securing the complex. While visitors do not require to furnish a photo ID proof now, it may become mandatory later.
 
 Mahapatra, too, said the personnel had been sensitized to refrain from intruding into the private space in this public place. His team is dilly-dallying on use of drones to patrol the vast grounds. “We have to respect local ethos. We don’t want to scare away couples or make them fear that we are snooping on them. If we use drones, we will use it at a discreet height,” the CISF officer said.
 
 While a 10-ft high perimeter fence that is under construction will secure the campus against intrusions, the force is working out ways to construct morcha posts that do not jar with the heritage backdrop.
 
 
