AHMEDABAD: The promoters of Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL) –  , his brother Sumit and father Suresh Bhatnagar – were sent to police custody for nine days by a CBI court on Wednesday evening, after they were arrested from Udaipur on Tuesday evening in connection with an alleged Rs 2,654 bank fraud.

 The Bhatnagars were tracked down to Udaipur and detained by   (ATS) sleuths late on Tuesday evening. They had been staying at the Paras Mahal Hotel in Udaipur since April 10.
 
 Their custody was handed over to the CBI in Gandhinagar on Wednesday morning. Besides charges of cheating, criminal conspiracy and forgery, the CBI has also booked them under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The charges of corruption were added on Wednesday before the Bhatnagars were produced in court for remand proceedings.
 
 The probe agency sought 14-day custody of the trio, to investigate the alleged scam involving a huge sum of public money borrowed from 11 banks since 2008.
 
 The CBI sought custodial interrogation of all three to find out their   in fraudulently projecting a turnover of Rs 2,197.60 crore in 2011to get their credit facilities enhanced from Rs 285 crore to Rs 480 crore for the year 2012. The investigators also want know out how the company submitted false stock statements to the lead bank of the 11-bank consortium, to show higher net working capital. Amit Bhatnagar being brought to Ahmedabad on Wednesday.
 
 
 
 The investigators also want know out how the company submitted false stock statements to the lead bank of the 11-bank consortium, to show higher net working capital. Remand was also sought to find out about the diversion of Rs 16.70 crore and the sanction of interest-fee loans of Rs 32.96 crore in group companies from the CC limit in connivance with public servants. 
 
 The CBI also wanted to find out how they cheated the consortium by opening accounts in   and diverting Rs 70 crore, and how bogus purchase invoices of Rs 500 crore were shown against which   of Rs 100.8 crore was availed of.
 
