CHENNAI: When  , a 55-year-old transsexual, recently went to a city hospital for her arthritis, it was her sex life that the doctor probed more. From how frequently she had sexual intercourse to the number of male partners she had in the last two years, under the garb of diagnosis, she was forced to divulge intimate details.

 “It was a humiliating experience,” said Roja, who works as a flower vendor in Egmore. Repeated efforts to tell the doctor she had been diagnosed with arthiritis in the past were cut short. The exchange ended in tears. “I vowed never to step into a hospital again,” said Roja, who uses her meagre earnings to feed her 8-year-old niece abandoned by her parents.
 
 
 Roja’s traumatic experience in a hospital is similar to the narratives shared by others from the transsexual community. Their ordeal has been statistically documented by a team of students and faculty of the Institute of Community Medicine, Madras Medical College. Interviews with 50   from the city revealed the extent of discrimination they face in healthcare facilities: Two in every five said they were harassed physically or verbally at least once in a hospital; more than half of them reported that doctors bring up their sexual activity even to treat seemingly unrelated illness, and an equal proportion of the participants felt they were denied equal treatment as the other genders.
 
 Three of the transsexuals interviewed said they were denied treatment altogether in the hospital. “In many instances, the transsexuals themselves opt out of treatment because they feel sidelined or the stray comments by hospital attendants make them cringe,” said  , general manager of Sahodaran, a Chennai-based NGO that works for transsexuals. She said the discrimination is higher in the government sector compared to private. “This is also the reason why a lot more transsexuals are opting to get sex-reassignment surgeries (SRS) done in private facilities although the government offers it free of cost,” said Jaya. She has a point: Official data show that the number of transsexuals availing free   went down from 85 in 2014 to 10 last year.
 
 The findings of the study were published in peer-reviewed scientific publication International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health this year. Around 48% of those interviewed said they had been forced into male or female wards against their preferences.
 
 “This is serious as those who transition from male to female take pride in expressing and feeling like a woman,” noted the study.
 
 The overall experience in the hospitals was rated as unpleasant by a majority of the participants. This is the case in a state that set up India’s first transsexual welfare board in 2008.
 
 The study recommended the government and other stakeholders to conduct periodic training among healthcare providers on the kind of care and counselling that transsexuals need.
 
 It also suggested a different patient ward for transsexuals, especially in departments that see high transsexual patient footfall.
 
