COIMBATORE: The district has finally carved out a new rural police station from the Thudiyluar police limits to maintain the law and order situation better.

 The new station at  , which municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated on Friday evening, would help the police easily reach the Tamil Nadu-Kerala border and assist the Naxalite Special Division in combing operations.
 
 Now that the Thadagam police station is opened, tribals can easily approach the police, said a source. As the Thudiyluar police station had to cover a 30km radius, people from   were forced to travel 27km to lodge any complaint.
 
 The Thudiyluar police station was set up on July 1, 1974, with a strength of 21 police personnel for a population of more than 1 lakh. As the population boomed to more than 5 lakh over the years, a proposal was sent to the state government to increase the police strength to 156 from 21 to maintain the law and order, and prevent crimes.
 
 Meanwhile, former SPs E S Uma, M Sudhakar and RV   made several representations to the state government to start a new police station at Thadagam, saying it would reduce the burden on the Thudiyalur police station.
 
 Chief Minister   then announced two new police stations for Coimbatore and one was inaugurated at Sulthanpet a month ago.
 
 The police station at Thadagam is set up in a rental building. Velumani said the police station would have a sub-inspector of police, two head constables, four grade one constables and 22 grade-II constables. A circle inspector would be the station housing officer, he added.
 
 “Pannimadai, No 24 Veerapandi, Chinnathadagam and No 22 Nanjundapuram villages and 30 hamlets will come under the Thadagam police limits. Police personnel should treat the petitioners politely and take necessary actions immediately,” the minister said.
 
 MLAs V C Arukutty, P R G Arunkumar, Ettimadai A Shanmugam, R Kanagaraj, city police commissioner K Periaiah, inspector general of police A Pari, DIG   and SP Pa Moorthy were present at the inaugural function.
 
 
