CHANDIGARH: The police on Sunday claimed to have solved four snatching cases and a theft of gold jewellery with the   of five persons, including a juvenile.

 Police recovered three mobile phones and nine gold chains from the accused identified as Harinder Singh (19), a resident of Sector 22, Deepak Mehra (24), a resident of PEC campus, Sector 12, Amrit Pal (20), a resident of Sector 20, and  , (35), a resident of Sector 25.
 
  Ram Gopal said Harinder and Deepak travelling on a Honda Activa scooter were caught at a naka near   in Sector 22 on Friday night on the basis of a tip-off. Police recovered a mobile phone snatched from Sector 17 on January 19 from them. The two during their interrogation admitted their involvement in two more mobile phone snatchings in sectors 17 and 22, the DSP said. The accused gave police information about their accomplice, Amrit Pal, who was arrested from Sector 22. Two snatched mobile phones were recovered from him. The DSP said all the three accused are drug addicts and carried out snatchings to meet their habit. Deepak, a mechanic diploma holder, had passed out from a college in Derabassi. A court sent the three accused in police remand for two days.
 
 In the theft case, police arrested a resident of Sector 25 for stealing nine gold chains from a jewellery shop in Sector 17 on Saturday. The DSP said Sector 17 jeweller Harman Arora alleged some unknown person stole eight gold chains worth Rs 2.86 lakh from his shop on Saturday. Police said the jeweller had raised doubt on his three workers. During interrogation, Sarvesh confessed that he had stolen the chains. On his disclosure, police recovered all the eight gold chains from his house. One chain was broken into two pieces. Sarvesh was a sweeper in the shop, police said. A local court sent him in judicial custody for 14 days.
 
 In another case, police arrested a 15-year-old boy for snatching a mobile phone from a woman resident of Jagatpura, Poonam Pandey, in Sector 48 market on Friday. The teenager was on a cycle when he carried out the crime.
 
 RECENT ARRESTS
 
 March 9 | Police arrested two persons, Sumit and  , both residents of Maloya resident, and claimed to solve three snatching cases
 
 March 1 | Police arrested two persons, Varun and Suraj Singh, from Sector 37 and claimed to solve four snatchings and auto theft cases. Both accused are residents of EWS flats in Dhanas. Police claimed the two snatched two mobile phones and one gold earring. Both are now lodged in   jail.
 
 
