PATNA: Patna College would soon have a conference hall with a seating capacity of 500 people and a well-equipped modern gymnasium,   (PU) vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh said while laying the foundation stone of the centenary gate near Wheeler Senate House on Monday.

 The gate will be constructed on the vacant land lying between Patna College and   at a cost of Rs 42 lakh that was donated by JD (U) leader Bashistha Narain Singh. He has also sanctioned a sum of Rs 2.5 crore for construction of a conference hall in the memory of Sarvodaya leader Jayaprakash Narayan.
 
 Earlier,   member and   leader R K Sinha inaugurated a link road from the office of Patna College principal to the entrance of Vanijya Mahavidyalaya constructed from his MPLAD fund. He assured of sanctioning more funds for construction of three additional link roads in the college.
 
 “Patna College alumnus and Union IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad has sanctioned a sum of Rs 1 crore for the construction of a new gymnasium in place of the old, dilapidated one at Patna College. The construction work will start soon,” said the VC.
 
 PU pro-VC Dolly Sinha, Vanijya Mahavidyalaya principal B N Pandey and university officials and teachers were also present on the occasion. 
 
 PU has recently submitted proposals worth Rs 14.24 crore to the University Grants Commission for financial assistance. The university has proposed to construct a complex with 24 flats for grade-IV staff at an estimated cost of Rs 2.15 crore near G D S Girls’ Hostel at Krishna Kunj, 20 quarters for grade-III staff at the Saidpur complex at an estimated cost of Rs 6 crore and expand the present guesthouse with 20 additional rooms at an estimated cost of Rs 2.18 crore.
 
 The proposals also include construction of an additional floor above the existing examination hall at Patna College for vocational and postgraduate (PG) courses at an estimated cost of Rs 1.37 crore. “The answer-books of PG exams will be evaluated in this new proposed hall instead of Wheeler Senate House,” said the VC.
 
 
