MUMBAI: Feeding birds titbits by the seaside may seem like a nice pastime. Until you're told that the food you're giving them is harmful for their tummies. Animal activists have written to the authorities to stop people from feeding knick-knacks to seagulls at the southern tip of the Marine Drive promenade. 

 A group of people has been feeding snacks made out of gram flour like sev, chivda, ghaatiya to seagulls at  , states a letter written by  , president of  . "A group of people feeds these birds every morning between 7am and 7.15am. Surely, the intention is good, but maybe they need to be told that this is harmful to the birds' digestive systems," said Sharma, an honorary wildlife warden who has dashed off an email to the mangrove cell of the forest department and to the deputy municipal commissioner who has jurisdiction over the area.
 
 Dr Shiwani Tandel, a veterinarian who specializes in birds and exotics, told TOI that such snacks indeed are harmful to the health of birds. "Ghaatiya is something that can't be digested by sea birds which are fish-eating creatures. Seagulls are used to eating pure animal protein, and gram flour, which is not animal protein, harms them," said Dr Tandel. "In the long run, it can damage the birds' liver." 
 
 This view was seconded by Dr  , avian and exotic specialist. "Studies done abroad on seagulls eating junk food, like French fries, have shown that they tend to develop fatty liver like in humans. This is detrimental to the digestive system," said Dr Dev. "Besides, it affects their hatchability and breeding cycle, ultimately causing a decline in their population."
 
  Deputy conservator of forests (mangrove cell) Jayaram Gowda said they had not yet receive the letter. "People who feed birds have to be stopped. They may not be aware of the harm that such food does to the birds. We have to sensitize and educate people about the consequences," said Gowda, adding that, if possible, they might consider putting up boards asking people to refrain from feeding snacks to birds. 
 
 
