
 , 
  
  
 
 
 

 
 
 The difference between the   and the Congress finance minister is that the style of functioning of Capt Amarinder Singh is very different from Mr Parkash Singh Badal. Capt Singh likes to delegate his work, he trusts you completely and expects results. In Mr Badal’s case, he never delegated and he didn’t expect results. He would take finance department’s meetings personally and not invite the finance minister. In the present dispensation, I am expected to tie up everything, sew up everything and give a final presentation either to the CM or the cabinet. In that sense, it’s quite different.
 
 
 
 
 
 I think the last 10 years had been very reckless in so far as populism is concerned, in terms of good governance or administration. A lot of money was recklessly thrown on projects not in the larger interest of Punjab. For example, for the last 10 years they kept telling us that they had foodstock to cover all the losses. But one day before the counting of votes on March 10, 2017, the   signed an agreement with the Centre accepting all the losses and converting that account into a term loan. In one stroke of pen, we were saddled with $4.5 billion or Rs 31,000 crore. Similarly, electricity board’s losses of about Rs 17,000 crore were converted to UDAY bonds. So about Rs 51,000 crore was loaded in within a few weeks.
 
 In the last financial year of the SAD government, they made memorials worth Rs 2,000 crore. But for the first time, there was a strike in the Panjab University for 20 days. Students were beaten up. PU was just asking for Rs 20 crore of additional government support. We have not paid the Sainik School at Kapurthala, which for continuous 17 years got the President’s medal for sending most cadets to the NDA. The annual grant to the school was Rs 1 crore, which is peanuts. Baba Farid Health Sciences University vice-chancellor Dr Raj Bahadur wanted Rs 50 crore to make it a world class university.
 
 
 
 
 Once they have been built, what do you do? Either you complete them or leave them. They are all half-constructed. So we’ll have to complete them. But, why were these decisions taken?
 
 All revenue of Mandi Board accounts to the tune of about Rs 5,000 crore, PIDB about Rs 2,000 crore a year have been escrowed with the banks for five years. Before they left, they made sure that they emptied out everything and no sources of revenue were left for the next government. It’s, as they call it in military, a scorched earth policy where the retreating forces destroy everything. But in this process, the Congress government has learnt a lesson, that howsoever reckless you are, you will be reduced to 15 seats, if you are not careful, if good governance is not there, and if corruption is there. The basic concern is rozi-roti and, what in Urdu they say, izzat ki roti.
 
 
 
 
 We were acutely aware of what was happening in Punjab. Whatever the Congress government has promised is basically with the view to kick-start the economy. Now in this cross-subsidisation of giving free power to farmers, the whole subsidy burden was loaded on to the industry of Punjab. They were getting power at Rs 7.60 a unit. If I can take you 50 years back: Why did Punjab progress? Punjab progressed because it had the Bhakra Dam. Because Punjab had access to cheap power, Punjab industrialised and developed.
 
 Industry was leaving Punjab in droves because of the power situation. So how do we retain them? We have to create a level-playing field. So when you talk about populism, I would respectfully disagree with you. It was not populism. It involves a subsidy of about Rs 1,500 crore. But I see benefits or multiplier effects if we can retain our industry. Because you don’t just retain industry, you also retain jobs and taxes. So, this was a must.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 No, this is not the only way. There are two other things that need to be done. Farmers have to be weaned away from agriculture. If agriculture forms 20% of Punjab’s GDP and 75% people are engaged in agriculture, that means 75% people are trying to earn Rs 20. They are not going to be rich or well-off. The idea is to give skill sets and job opportunities to farmers’ children so that they can get away and start doing other jobs. Second step is to give better crop prices and promote alternative crops. It has to be multi-pronged approach and debt has to be taken care of. Unless you do all three simultaneously, you will not have the desired effect.
 
 
 
 
 We have to remodel our economy from a foodgrainproducing economy into a more industrialised or a service-oriented one. That model has to be put in place in the next four years. If we don’t do that, I foresee our resources will be severely affected in the post-GST situation when compensation stops after four years.
 
 The Green Revolution must move eastwards. Punjab should be relieved of this duty of growing foodgrains for the country. We have done this duty for 60 years, but in this process we have poisoned our soil, depleted our aquifers and water sources. Let Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Orissa, which form the natural food bowl of India, do that duty.
 
 
 
 
 We are saying instead of rice, we will be very interested in growing maize. As long as we get the MSP or a little bit of hand-holding, Punjab could become Denmark of India. Why should there not be MSP on milk, fruits, or vegetables? If you study the food policy of India, it is rooted in the 1960s and Green Revolution was the main thrust at the time.
 
 If you look at an average Indian, he is malnourished. So now, the Union government should change the food policy to nutrition policy. An average man should have the access to fruit, milk and vegetables, and Punjab could step in as the producer of milk, fruits and vegetables. And, this is how we can remodel and maize could be one of the options.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, maize would give as much income or cash as rice would. There would be no problem of stubble burning as well. It will take care of all that.
 
 
 
 
 I think that is the political line. The Punjab government is basically trying to assess the electricity requirement. At present, any transmission losses or any inefficiencies of the electricity board are actually all being billed to free power. This is only a pilot project. We are trying to tell farmers that every tubewell costs us, say Rs 48,000 per year. We have 1.4 million pumps. So we are saying, you take this Rs 48,000 which we anyway have to give. In case, you can save power of say Rs 18,000 out of Rs 48,000 that we pay you, then Rs 18,000 is yours. There is another angle to it. We want to save water as well. If farmers accept it, we are going to go further and if not, let it remain a pilot project.
 
 
 
 
 We had flagged this issue with the Union finance and agriculture ministers. Maybe the CM will again meet Union minister (Ram Vilas) Paswan and we again will say, ‘Either you take over the entire procurement operation, or reimburse us our actuals — whichever is convenient for you.’ Pre-GST, we have been charging some cess from the FCI, but it has been subsumed now.
 
 Food procurement exercise is inherently a lossmaking exercise to the tune of Rs 1,800 crore per year for Punjab. The Punjab government has to pay Rs 3,200 crore every year to the Centre for next 20 years. Over that, Rs 1,800 crore is the annual loss for procurement of grains. Why should we suffer a burden of Rs 5,000 crore every year? Why should we be burdened with this huge amount when we are undertaking the procurement exercise for the Centre, we are poisoning our soil and exhausting our ground water?
 
 I think we are actually selling water not the foodgrains. Every kilogram of rice takes 5,000 litres of water and every kilogram of wheat takes 3,000 litres. To get a cash credit limit, we have to first deposit that loss with the Central government before they give us the limit. We had paid Rs 1,100 crore before the wheat season.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I quite agree with this. We have not been able to increase our revenue share and industry in our economy. We are dependent on the Centre. That is why I said, we need to remodel our economy.
 
 
 
 
 There are two huge areas I see for Punjab. One is our excise policy. States like Tamil Nadu and Kerala have opted for corporation model. We are not trying to go for retail mode, but trying to have wholesale part of it so that we can track every bottle that comes to the state either from our own distilleries or from outside. There is a technology to help curb sale of illegal or nontaxed liquor. My own feeling is that distillers, wholesalers and retailers are the same people. This is the area where Punjab should increase revenue by 25% every year. This year, my target is to generate Rs 1,000 crore in revenue and next year it could go up to Rs 2,000 crore.
 
 Second area where our revenue can be increased is mining. My feeling is if we can identify additional mines and if we can install technology to check illegal mining, this is an industry worth Rs 1,500-2,000 crore. We are now generating around Rs 150-200 crore from mining compared to around Rs 45 lakh during the Akali regime. Although we had auctioned around Rs 400 crores of sand mines, some people backed out and there was some controversy.
 
 Punjab should also be looking at non-tax revenue as it has the lowest non-tax revenue collection in India. The rates have not been revised for 20-30 years. We would ask all departments to review their non-tax revenue.
 
 
 
 
 We have flagged this issue with the RBI and even the Union finance minister that there has been some unethical lending to the farmers by commercial banks. This must be checked because in order to achieve their targets they indulge in such things where they know that this money can never be recovered. It is beyond our purview to bring these banks to kneel. We have made a big hue and cry. The reason why we started farm debt waiver first with cooperative banks was that we did not have data from commercial banks.
 
 
 
 
 We have already rolled out some of the bigger promises. There were two types of promises. Ones which did not entail any financial liability like electricity subsidy to industry, or farm debt waiver. So we have already rolled out all these. For smartphones we are in talks with many companies. There are some procedural and tax issues with those firms because it is a service and soon those would be resolved. I don’t think smartphones will not be handed out as promised.
 
 
 
 
 Sometimes tokenism is also important. Mahatama Gandhi was not short of kurtas. He was a barrister from London. But he never wore kurtas because he realized that 70% of people in India at that time never wore a shirt. I think leaders should be role models. Even tokenism of doing away with red beacons on vehicles was a decision in the same direction.
 
 
 
 It is not only about PDS. They have not allowed use of ethanol made of foodgrains. They have banned it for rice and maize.
 
 
 
 At this moment, if I look at the total under the MSP regime what the farmers are being paid is about Rs 55,000 crore and the subsidy bill of power, which is the biggest subsidy, is around Rs 6,000 crore. It would add up to around 15% of the total compensation which is being paid to farmers. At this moment I feel that farmers are not able to take that 15%. That would be a huge blow.
 
 We will have to carry on with it till such time when we can have farms up and running. It is not possible at the moment. Basically, you have to prioritise, what needs to be done. In Punjab, human resource needs to be upgraded in a massive way.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Manpreet Badal is not a first-time finance minister, he was the finance minister in the Akali government as well. Despite that he has not been able to generate resources and has been taking the shelter of empty coffers left by the SAD-BJP government. If he cannot implement the promises made in the election manifesto and cannot improve the financial condition of the state, it is better for him to give up the post. It is for the first time that the salaries of employees are being delayed. How will there be development in the state? At the same time, he has been making unrealistic promises of making Punjab revenue surplus in next four years.
 
 
 
 
 The Punjab finance minister has always been begging for financial support from the Union government when the state government has not even been able to distribute funds released by the Centre for various welfare schemes. One of the best examples is the post-matric scholarship for the Scheduled Caste students where around Rs 115 crore sent by the Centre has not been released by the state. Finance department sher-oshayari se nahi chalta. Jab Raja hi mast ho jayega to wazir se kya umeed ki ja sakti hai? Salaries are not being paid on time to employees, pensions are not being distributed for months, and farm debt waiver has not been properly implemented. What to talk about distribution of smartphones to youth as promised in the election manifesto?
 
 
 
 
 It seems to be a totally confused government. The Congress govt totally miscalculated Rs 15,000 crore revenue in its first budget. The finance dept doesn’t seem to be in the loop of the decisions being taken by other departments. I had asked them during the last budget session where they would generate Rs 10,000 crore revenue from when they do not have any concrete roadmap. The state cannot borrow more than 3% of the GSDP. The Congress government has not been able to even implement announcements made in the last year’s budget. They have not even cleared the DA and arrears to employees till date and salaries are being delayed every month.
 
 
