MANGALURU: The Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC) owes over Rs 502 crore towards outstanding dues of loans availed from Asian Development Bank (ADB). Though the   is yet to pay such a whopping sum to  , the city corporation has not taken any decision with regards to its repayment.

 BJP corporator Sudheer   from the opposition said MCC’s due to ADB as on September 30, 2017 is Rs 502.66 crore as per statistics from the Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development Finance Corporation (KIUDFC). “In fact, the city corporation had availed Rs 360 crore in 2003 for the implementation of drinking water and underground drainage projects under Phase I of the ADB scheme,” he said, adding that the city corporation has not repaid the loan.
 
 “Though the city corporation is yet to repay such a huge amount due to ADB, the council has approved projects worth crores of rupees under ADB Phase II. A project completed in 2013 under ADB Phase I to ensure 24x7 drinking water to the city has failed to yield the expected results. People in Mangaladevi, Hoige Bazar, Jeppu, Jappinamogaru, Kankanady, Alape, Bajal and Kannur are facing a drinking water crisis, even though the project was implemented considering the 2026 population, and spending Rs 106 crore on it. Now the city corporation has planned to avail additional loans from ADB to implement the ‘Jalasiri’ drinking water scheme, which will be taken up at an estimated cost of Rs 282. 22 crore,” Shetty said.
 
 He said the city corporation is liable to pay additional interest at the rate of 2.5% for the loan dues of Phase I. “The city corporation administration is irresponsible, and they have been attempting to misuse the tax paid by citizens. By planning to avail additional loans from ADB, the city corporation is attempting to increase the burden on the people,” he alleged.
 
 Mayor Kavitha Sanil said, “The city corporation has not yet taken any decision on the ADB loan dues. We have not started repaying the loan. A meeting will be held in this regard soon.”
 
 On allegations of availing loans under ADB Phase II, even when the previous dues remain unpaid, the mayor said, “The council had taken a final decision on upcoming projects under Phase II of ADB only after holding discussions on the floor, in the presence of corporators from the BJP.”
 
 
