Nagpur: In an awareness seminar held by the income tax department (I-T) for schools and colleges on Wednesday afternoon, officials asked principals to ensure that their organization reports all eligible financial transactions to the authorities. The intelligence and criminal investigation (I & CI) wing spearheaded the awareness campaign in an effort to bring about better understanding of the process for educational institutes. While addressing principals and school accountants, Kaumudi Patil, joint director at I-T department, said, “Our department’s responsibility is to ensure compliance of statement of financial transactions. One part of that responsibility is to create awareness through such events.” Her colleague Dhananjay Wanjari, joint director in the same department, told the audience that the onus is on schools to report the financial transactions. Wanjari said, “You have to provide the information through the statement of financial transactions (SFT). The reason for providing this is to increase transparency as it will empower the department to collect information.”  Patil said, “The SFT came into effect from FY 2016-17 and was earlier called annual information return (AIR). The SFT is monitored by our department and the information provided is collated. Then if we find some actionable information, it is sent to field teams for further processing. We are working on the presumption that you are providing all the information to us.”  Schools and colleges were advised to ensure that the trust’s permanent account number (PAN) is linked with their current account. Patil said, “Please do not, under any circumstances, link the PAN of your trustee or any other person. It has to be the PAN of the trust which is collecting the payments. Even though you may be getting tuition fee which is not under the purview of taxation, the information has to be filed.” Patil provided details of what eligible transactions have to be reported and the process. Patil and Wanjari have been holding similar workshops with sector-specific audiences in Nagpur. “It’s a pan-India thing, but we have now intensified our efforts to create awareness,” said Wanjari.