HYDERABAD: After Mumbai and Guwahati, students at the   ( ) Hyderabad campuses held a massive protest on Thursday against the administration's decision to collect tuition fee, hostel fee and dining hall fee from beneficiaries of government of India post-matric scholarships (GOI-PMS). 

 The strike was declared following a nationwide call given by the TISS students' union at the Mumbai campus on Wednesday. In May last year, a notification issued by the TISS administration stated that the GOI-PMS would be withdrawn from SC/ST students from the 2017-19 academic year. 
 
 The move drew flak among students who raised slogans against such as 'TISS administration down down', 'MHRD sharam karo' and 'No more Rohith'. University of Hyderabad student Rohith Vemula was also protesting against lack of scholarships before the issue snowballed and resulted in his suicide, which then led to nationwide protests. 
 
 "Under the scholarship, we had to pay only 4,500 per semester and the rest was to be borne by the government of India. The TISS administration is now asking each scholarship holder to pay an estimated amount of 80,000 per semester," said  , a student of public policy and governance at TISS, Gachibowli campus. Students of the Rajendranagar campus also sat on strike. 
 
 The decision to withdraw financial aid from students is affecting over 500 scholarship holders in Hyderabad. "We all belong to families which have an annual income of less than 2.50 lakh. Paying 80,000 per semester is impossible for us. The administration and the central government must intervene and resolve the issue," said Lokesh Middi, a student of rural development and governance (RDG). 
 
 Students said that they had sought admission in the institute only after the administration put up a notification stating that GOI-PMS holders will not have to pay any amount. "We had sought admission on the grounds that we will not have to pay the amount. Our income certificates and scholarship documents too were submitted for verification. How can they ask us to pay such a huge amount in the middle of the year?" questioned Vaishali Gulghane, a student of RDG.
 
 When TOI contacted TISS Hyderabad officials, they were unavailable for comment. Students attributed the institute's move to funds cut from University Grants Commission. 
 
 
