BATHINDA: Nagar panchayat president of Nihal Singh Wala town in Moga district and   activist, Inderjit Garg claimed that a wanted gangster,   has been making extortion calls on his mobile phone through WhatsApp since last fortnight.

 When he refused to give in to the gangster’s demands, Garg’s his Toyota Innova, a 2013 model, was set on fire by some unknown miscreants early on Tuesday morning. He told the police that the extortion calls had been made from international numbers.
 
 Sukhpreet, who has been booked in half-a-dozen cases, is on the run. Cops recently had gone to his house in Moga district’s Kussa village to urge his family to get the gangster back to mainstream.
 
 Garg, who is also president of Aggarwala Sabha at Nihal Singh Wala, alleged a couple of other persons too had received extortion calls from international numbers, but they refused to lodge complaints with the police, fearing for their lives.
 
 The police had provided security to Garg after he received his first extortion call on March 1. A case against Sukhpreet Buddha has been registered. “A case against gangster Sukhpreet and unknown persons has been registered in the matter,” Nihal Singh Wala station house officer Jaswant Singh said.
 
 “On March 1, I got WhatsApp call from some international number whose four digits were visible. The person on the other side introduced himself as Sukhpreet Buddha and demanded Rs 10 lakh. He threatened me with dire consequences if I did not fulfill his demand. I approached the police who provided me security. On March 8, I got an extortion call in the day and then on the night of March 10, I got another call where the caller threatened to kill my family. He said they had already killed some persons. Again on March 12, I got a call and my SUV was burnt,” the Congress activist told TOI.
 
 Locals downed the shutters of their shops and held a protest on Tuesday against the incident. After the police assured them that the culprits would be arrested at the earliest, they ended their protest.
 
 Bathinda zone inspector-general of police   said, “When Inderjit had complained about getting extortion calls in the name of gangster Sukhpreet on March 1, security was provided to him. We are trying to track the calls made to Inderjit and working on that earnestly.”
 
 
