CHENNAI: Six years after an elderly woman from Chennai was harassed and implicated in a false case by the Salem police, the State Human Rights Commission has recommended that criminal prosecution be initiated against four policemen including a deputy superintendent of police, apart from a departmental inquiry. The   bench headed by D Jayachandran also directed the government to compensate the woman by paying her Rs 5 lakh.

 Vasantha, 68, of   had a dispute with her relatives Jeganathan and   over an ancestral property in Salem. When she filed a complaint with the Thammampatti police station in August 2011, she was advised by police to seek a remedy through the civil court. A civil suit is pending before the Atthur subordinate judge, according to her petition.
 
 In April 2012, she went to her native village of Kondayampalli and was staying with her 85-year-old brother-in-law Dharmalingam. On April 4, police personnel from the Salem anti-landgrab cell barged into the house after midnight and physically assaulted her when she refused to come to the police station, the petition stated. The woman further stated that police tortured her without providing food and water before producing her before a magistrate. In their counter petition, the police personnel denied the allegations and said that the arrest was made on April 5 around 11am.
 
 After perusing the documents available, the judge observed that police had registered a false criminal case against the woman and arrested her. The SHRC bench chided the police personnel for their high-handed behaviour of arresting the petitioner without following due procedure. “The gruesome act committed by the police is the worst example of cruelty and lawlessness amounting to violation of human rights of the complainant,” the bench noted.
 
 The SHRC recommended criminal proceedings against  , inspector  , and sub-inspectors Thangaraj and   and also directed the government to provide a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the woman. The government shall recover the amount from the concerned police personnel, the bench noted.
 
 
