“Good morning sunshine!”
 “Hello hottie!”
  “Damn, those eyes. How do they 
 picture us together?” 
  “You’ll make a great wife and mother.”
  A wink, a coy smile or a fleeting touch…
  A flower, an eggplant or a 
 water drop emoji…
 
 Which one of these is a harmless greeting and which one is a pass? Which one could send ‘creep and cheap’ vibes and which one is just an innocuous gesture? In the post-Weinstein and the MeToo wave world, where women are now finding their voice when it comes to sexual harassment, the single and ready to mingle have found themselves in a strange spot — of navigating the smile, a playful nudge or a compliment that could cross the line from friendly flirting to improper innuendo.
 
 “Not that it has suddenly become harder to interact with women. Dating has always been hard. Par for the course is rejection, which does take its toll. But I’ve become more guarded in my approach,” says  , a 32-year-old single. Post MeToo, he says, his style of flirting is more about flitting around the edges — talking about exotic teas or art without anything overt or direct like ‘you look hot in that backless dress’. Roy admits it often doesn’t work. “A woman might look for concrete expressions of interest, which means the man is expected to make some moves. While I completely support the heightened focus on sexual misconduct, I’m also nervous that an unwelcome date request or a clumsy expression might be misconstrued,” he rues.
 
 Ronaan isn’t the only one fretting about his flirt quotient in this important new age of transparency and accountability. It could be just as perplexing for a woman who gets labelled either “forward” or a “prude”.
 
 Divya Dias, a 29-year-old game designer who describes herself as smart, articulate, and aware, has rejected plenty of overtures since moving back from   last November. “I’d heard Indian men are desperate but there were a few who seemed fairly modern and sensible. Unfortunately, I still got to see my share of the backward and falsely confident kind. One boy called me ‘too available’ for agreeing to meet him for a coffee. Another thought a few texts were a perfectly good lead up to asking me to seduce him!” Divya’s knee-jerk reaction is to reject every guy now. She feels she must take it very slow to avoid another bad experience. “Yet, I do worry that I may be chasing away someone I may potentially like”.
 
 To address this conundrum — what is good dating etiquette; what’s a way to be respectful and also have fun; how to initiate intimacy without being creepy; how to flirt knowing everyone is comfortable; and how to handle the situation if you misread sexual cues — Agents of Ishq, a multimedia project in Mumbai that creates positive conversations about love, sex and desire, decided to train the spotlight on “what’s okay and what’s not okay” while indulging in the pleasures of good old-fashioned flirting.
 
 “There’s a ten-step programme for it. Actually not!” quipped Arushi Sharma, a sexual rights advocate with The Pleasure Project who, along with psychiatrist Kersi Chavda, led a master class on flirting safely and successfully in the time of MeToo in Mumbai last Sunday.
 
 When it comes to ideas of Indian romance, lessons are often rooted in patriarchal beliefs. “And that leaves no room for the forward girl and the shy guy,” says Arushi. “The patriarchal structure which is censorious of women’s sexuality teaches girls to be ‘good’ while boys are brought up with a need to break down that wall. Often men don’t know how to do that in a consensual, comfortable manner while women feel violated if after sex, the conversation doesn’t involve marriage. It’s important to realise that man-woman relationships are messy.”
 
 If Divya tends to “clam up” every time she is approached by an unknown someone, she understands that it stems from “being an only child who grew up over-protected.” This is a kind of social conditioning that feminist filmmaker Paromita Vohra feels could often make women skeptical about a man’s move that may not be ill-intentioned. “With migration and cross-cultural engagements, an enormous number of people from various backgrounds, education and parental guidance interact without being trained to think of romantic entanglements. Under these circumstances, even a normal attempt to flirt could make a woman speculate if such behaviour is unwarranted and whether she should reciprocate,” says Vohra.
 
 In reality, what one may find offensive, another could welcome. To steer through what is typically a fuzzy grey area, Arushi — while recounting the time she charted a consensual course of flirting, dating and desire with a photographer she had stumbled upon on the streets of Europe — advises “open, direct communication” that could help resolve these issues on both sides.
 
 However, Chavda warns, “Direct is good but when it comes from a man, it could have a seriously offensive connotation. I believe in subtlety. A little beating around the bush before making intentions clear could add to the gentleness and fun of flirting.” Conversely, persistence woven into pursuit could lead to stalking. “Anyone uncomfortable with such advances must not prevaricate,” he clarifies.
 
 In these goal-oriented days of dating whether flirting for fun even exists anymore, Vohra points at the need to allow “non-linear” encounters that may or may not lead to friendship or romance but are all about the moment. One could perhaps take a cue from the   where “flirting without hurting” is known to flourish, says Aliyah Khan — a professor with a focus on postcolonial Caribbean and its diasporas — in her blog on Agents of Ishq. “Caribbean culture offers these invitations: be generous. Listen before talking. Flirt more. Give more. Demand less. Take the time to play and decide. Pleasure will come, and there are many kinds of pleasure, not all sexual,” she explains.
 
 While a wider vocabulary for amorousness and new codes of courtship — be open, articulate what you’re feeling, don’t take yourself too seriously, and do away with the pressure of an outcome — may be the need of the hour, one thing’s clear: there’s no need to mourn the death of flirting. MeToo was never about nixing romance but about not letting abusers get away by pretending that they were following a romantic script.
 
