LUCKNOW: In a first ever interaction with the press after a series of news reports of harassment and ragging cases against  , its principal Carlyle   took a dig at the police for registering 'an incorrect FIR'. 

 He also criticized the district administration for "creating confusion" on two previous incidents of ragging and harassment which took place between students last year. The district magistrate had set up a committee to investigate the two incidents. 
 
 Saying that he considers privacy of students paramount, McFarland defended the absence of   cameras in the college. 
 
 "An FIR registered against the college administration and unidentified senior students by father of a former Class VIII student is wrong," he stated before journalists. McFarland was referring to the FIR lodged on Tuesday by the father of a class VIII boy for assault in the child by his seniors. 
 
 "According to law, the section pressed in the FIR pertains to voluntarily causing hurt during robbery. How can minors indulge in robbery," said the principal, who added that on the basis of a complaint by a former student, police had lodged an FIR against the college management and unidentified seniors without any investigation. A legal consultation is being taken," he said. 
 
 He insisted that the college administration was not informed about the clash when it occurred. In July, the parents had said they were withdrawing their child from the school because of family issues, he said. 
 
 Moving to other cases, the principal said that Yuvraj, a student, was targeted after 'petty schoolyard altercation between boys'.
 
 "I was not informed. The father of the child called police and when a constable came to the college, I realised something was wrong," said Mc Farland. 
 
 The third case was from September. "The case of Yash is pending. CO Hazratganj is investigating the case. The CM office has also responded on the issue along with ACM (I) and DIOS," said McFarland.
 
 He added that Yash suffered from mental seizures and was not ready to take an exam. "In my reply to the administration, I had clearly mentioned 11 points. Yash had concocted a story of thrashing and ragging to avoid appearing in the exam."
 
 On the absence of CCTV cameras, the principal promptly replied, "We do not rely on CCTVs. Privacy is sacred and technology is invasive." He further went on to say that classrooms were sacrosanct and children studying inside a classroom shared a special bond with the teacher. Their discussions and talks must not be kept under surveillance, he said.
 
 Soon after the   incident in Gurugram, the UP DGP had directed government, government-aided and private schools to install CCTV cameras in classrooms, galleries, outside toilets and other places on the campus to keep a tab on various activities. However, barring a single CCTV camera installed on the gate of the college, nowhere on La Martiniere College campus were CCTVs found.
 
 District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said no school can go against the guidelines issued by the government on security issues. "I will examine the matter and take appropriate action within a few days," said Sharma. 
 
 
