CHANDIGARH: Blunting the edge of opposition attack on appointment of the wife and son on government posts, Punjab local bodies minister Navjot Singh   said his wife Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu will not not join as the chairperson of the Punjab Warehousing Corporation and his son Karan will not take up the as assistant advocate general.'s post. 
 
 Sidhu had come under attack from the opposition parties over the appointments at a time when other MLAs were not being considered for the post of chairpersons of boards and corporations.
 
 While addressing the media, Sidhu thanked Punjab CM   for keeping his word, but made it plain that his wife and son had made a conscious decision not to take up the new assignments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Sidhu’s son Karan was appointed as assistant advocate general on May 25 in the Punjab advocate general office along with other 27 law officers. “My son has done master’s in law from Cardozo law colleges in United States. Today morning he called me up from Delhi saying, "if anyone casts aspersions on my father, I will not join". My wife thinks Karan deserved the appointment on merit, but Karan said neither he nor his mother will join,” said Sidhu. He added, “today once again, my family has stood by me.”
 
 
 Sidhu also said that rather than outsiders, it was people from his party who were after him. “Tuhanu pata hai sanu marwaun wala andarle ne baharle nahi (Do you know our detractors are insiders),” he said. Replying to a question as to why his family members did not refuse to accept the appointment in the first place, he said, “It is not my decision, it is their decision.” To another question that his wife had been appointed as chairperson but various other   MLAs have been ignored by the state government, Sidhu said, “Many MLAs are not ready to accept the chairmanship. Ask them. MLA’s post is above any chairmanship.”
 
 
 In a tweet, Sidhu’s wife said, “I am a senior gynaecologist, left government job for people of Punjab, Sidhu’s son is a law graduate from Delhi university, did LLM from Cardozo Law College, New York, and has a practice of six years with Delhi High Court. We were not unemployed, sifarshi or less educated, non-deserving people. Don’t compare us with uneducated fools who get plum posts because of power...”
 
 
 
