PUNE: More woes are in store for road users at the   underpass after the covers of a water channel on the Lohegaon airport-bound carriageway caved in, recently. 

 Pune   ( ) said the covers had sunk due to the high velocity of vehicles which was leading to flooding of the underpass and the difference in the height of the road before and after the channel was causing accidents.
 
 Locals said the channel, which runs across both flanks of the carriageway, is used by local residents extensively for washing and other purposes. The channel is covered by standard-issue RCC covers, aligned with the level of the carriageway to ensure a smooth driving experience.
 
 Lately, those covers have caved in to the point where the water underneath overflows with part of the underpass often flooded due to the slope leading into it. Motorists have often suffered damage to their vehicles due to the sudden caving in of the covers, and accidents are common because of slippages.
 
 “How should we drive? I can slow down here because I know what the situation is. But I know many who have suffered accidents due to the condition of the covers here, or have slipped due to the overflowing water. This has been the case for almost two-three weeks now,” said N Ramesh who drives to his shop in Vimannagar.
 
 The foul smell emanating from the channel because of the garbage and the debris dumped in it for weeks without any cleaning is suffocating.
 
 “If the problem is not sorted now, imagine what it will be during the monsoon. Even a few weeks ago, the underpass flooded due to overflowing channels. The smell coming from them is unbearable. The whole project does not look like one which is important or recently completed,” Qaneez Sukhrani, convenor of the Vimannagar Citizens’ Forum, said.
 
 Civic officials admitted that the flooding and the overflow issue exist, but blamed drivers who speed down the slope towards the underpass.
 
 “This is indeed a problem there. The RCC covers are frequently damaged which is why the water overflows and thus the quality of driving is sometimes not smooth. We have observed that because motorists speed down the carriageway using the slope, the force exerted by the vehicles on the covers damages them. We are currently changing those covers with newer ones being of more sturdy material,” a civic official in the PMC’s project department said.
 
 
