HYDERABAD: ATM services of public sector banks (PSBs), already facing severe cash crunch, were severely disrupted across the city as the banks union struck work in protest against what they called “a meagre” 2% wage revision proposed by the Indian Banks’ Assocation (IBA).

 
 The nation-wide strike crippled the functioning of at least 5,000 branches in   and around 7,000 in   as 80,000 state-run   employees of both the states called off work. Of the overall 12,000 branches, SBI alone constituted 2,900 branches. Nearly 10 lakh bank employees of 21 PSBs are on two-day agitation across the country against nominal wage revision.
 
  
  
 
 Apart from ATM services, transactions like cheque clearances, demand drafts, RTGS (Real Time Gross Settlement) and remittances were affected although online banking offered some solace to the customers in the city. However, it was business as usual at private banks as they were not part of the strike.
 
 “Strike or no strike, ATMs have been facing cash crunch for some time now,”   (UFBU) AP and Telangana convenor V V S R Sarma said while defending the union strike. With the pay day nearing, private and government employees whose salary accounts are with the PSBs are likely to have problems.
 
 During the day, around 5,000 bank employees held demonstrations outside the local SBI headquarters in Koti. “The protest will continue at SBI branch, Patny,” Sarma said. UFBU is an umbrella organisation of nine unions of bank officers and employees including AIBEA, AIBOC, NCBE, AIBOA, BEFI, INBEF, INBOC, NOBW and NOBO.
 
 Giving his piece of mind to the   (IBA), United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU) AP and Telangana convenor V V S R Sarma said the IBA should focus on recovery of bad loans instead of shifting blame on mouting NPAs and eroding profitablity of PSBs for the nominal wage revision.
 
 “It is not that the banks are not profitable, the operating profits are high which shows that the bank employees are working hard. But there has been higher provisioning for NPAs,” he said, adding it is unfair to give a coldshoulder to the employees for the bad loans. The government should crack a whip on the big borrowers for siphoning off crores of rupees and fleeing the nation, he said.
 
 Reeling out data of profits earned by the PSBs, Sarma said in 2011-2012, net operating profit of PSBs was ₹1,27,000 crore. In 2016-2017, it had risen to ₹1,57,000 crore, he added. Salaries of stateowned bank employees are revised every five years. The previous salary hike was 15% in May 2015, which was effective from November 2012 retrospectively. Sarma hinted that even a 15% hike won’t be enough this time and the employees will continue to demand for higher wages.
 
 
 
