PATNA: Indications are that there would be no anti-BJP and anti-Congress Third Front in the 2019 parliamentary elections, as the Left   are in no mood to be a part of any such alliance and have decided not to destabilize the Congress-led broad alliance once it takes shape.

 By implication, the forthcoming parliamentary elections would have mainly two main political formations of the BJP-led NDA and the Congress-led alliance pitched against each other in the electoral battle, with the Left parties in tacit understanding with the Congress-led alliance even if they don’t formally join it.
 
 Otherwise, till now, the Left parties have been big mover behind forming the Third Front. An indication of the change in position with regard to the Congress-led alliance has come from the recently concluded three-day national council meeting of the CPI held at   in Andhra Pradesh from January 8 to January 10.
 
 “The CPI believes in unwavering Left unity, but it also thinks that the rational way to give credible fight to the BJP and the NDA is to become a part of the Left and broad secular democratic alliance that also includes the  ,” said Bihar CPI state secretary  , who led the party’s six-member delegation from Bihar at the national council meet.
 
 Singh also said the “Left parties, of course, will be in fight against the Congress in Kerala, West Bengal and Tripura, because we are strong there”.
 
 The CPM, on the other hand, is of the view that the party would give publicity to its campaign against neoliberal economic agenda that the Congress first inaugurated in the country which the BJP has been following rather aggressively after coming into power under the leadership of PM  .
 
 “For us, too, the Left unity is priority, but carrying out our campaign against neoliberalism and communalism would also continue, rather more vigorously. The BJP has started making U-turns on all economic policies that it opposed when in the opposition at the Centre,” said Bihar CPM secretariat member Arun  , adding: “It is also true that there is no question of the Third Front in the country or in Bihar.”
 
 Mishra said while keeping the Left unity intact, the CPM could be accommodative towards the Congress-led alliance, as it would “definitely not be overambitious to field candidates in constituencies where we are weak or field candidates just for the sake of fighting the election.” 
 
 
