NEW DELHI: Soni had started working at the ill-fated factory only a day ago — she expected the Rs 5,500 she would draw monthly to stand her in good stead when she welcomed her baby into this world. On Saturday, all her dreams were shattered.

 Five months pregnant, the 23-year-old couldn’t rush up the   quickly enough to evade the blaze. Baburam, Soni’s brother, said she had told him that she had decided to work at a cloth-dyeing factory to supplement the family’s income. Her husband is a daily wager.
 
 Saturday was an off day for her, as well as for other workers, but their supervisor, Ajeet (22), had called them in, with a promise of a bonus. Their shift was to end by 2pm, but they were made to work till 6.30pm on the “orders of the owner”.
 
 Waiting at the mortuary to identify his sister, Baburam said: “It was her second day at work. She had got married in June. When we heard of the blaze, we rushed to the spot. Little did we know that it was the building where my sister worked that had caught fire.” Soni’s mother said the fire had claimed 18 lives, including that of her unborn grandkid. “We have lost everything,” she said.
 
 Roop Prasad (24), who himself suffered fractures in both legs, rued his failure to save three of his cousins who worked with him. Rohit Singh (19), Sanjit (18) and Suraj (22) were left behind even as Prasad saved himself by jumping off the building. Prasad said Sanjit and Rohit had returned from their village only on Thursday.
 
 Most workers at the factory were from Shamli and Unnao in UP; some others hailed from Jharkhand. Ram Murat, Sanjit’s father, heard of the fire on TV. He tried calling Sanjit on his mobile phone from his house in UP’s Hasanganj, but got no response. 
 
 Inconsolable, he told TOI on Sunday, “Our last conversation was around 1pm on Saturday. Sanjit said he wanted to come back as the working conditions weren’t good at the factory. He had even booked train tickets to return to UP.” Rajeshwari, Suraj’s mother, said her son had not been able to come home for two years as he didn’t have enough money. “He had called us on Friday to say he was saving money to visit us,” she said. The family now had to travel 400km for the last rites.
 
 Neeraj, son of another victim, Sukhada Devi, alleged that the factory supervisor had initially promised her a monthly pay of Rs 14,000, but she was eventually paid Rs 5,500 along with “overtime” charges. His father being bed-ridden, Neeraj is now looking for a job even more urgently. 
 
 Her husband Mahipal broke down when he was called to identify her body. “She had started working there just a couple of days ago with Soni. We were not aware that firecrackers were being made in the factory,” he said.
 
 
