Ga ma re sa to bohut raag mein lagta hai, but Shyaam Kalyan ka nakhra to dekho”, said   with a smile as he strummed on his sitar, elaborating the features of the raag to a mesmerised audience, at Sailing Annexe on Sunday evening. Organised by Surmandal, the intimate concert (which the maestro calls a ‘baithak’) entranced the music lovers with resonant meends, fine bol-vistar and taankari and melodious jod and jhala, as the exponent of the Etawah gharana let his sitar do the talking.
Hyderabad Times caught up with Ustad Shahid Parvez Khan for a heart-to-heart chat after the concert. Excerpts: 
 
 
 
 Yes, my grandfather,   saab, lived in Hyderabad for a very long time. My grandmother also hailed from the city. Apart from that, it was one of my favourite places. I was 16 when I gave my first concert here in 1976. Ustad   saab, a great tabla maestro, was kind enough to play with me. We gave at least 20 concerts in two months. Never before had I performed so many times in such a short span of time. And the audience here is the reason why Hyderabad is my favourite city. If your audience appreciates good music, it has to be your favourite place as a musician. However, things have changed a lot now. Back then, people used to love music. I don’t mean that they don’t love it today, but in comparison to those days, I feel something is missing.
 
 
 
 I don’t know how to put it in words, but it’s not like what it was before. However, I feel that it’s coming back slowly.
 
 
 There are two kinds of style, one is tantrakari, which is based more on instrumental technique and the other is gayaki which is more inclined to vocal. My fore fathers used to play tantrakari. My uncle,   saab, introduced the gayaki anga. I tried to combine both. We are the pioneers of khayal ang or the gayaki ang in tantrakaari. But music is not limited to us and our gharana. My father taught me to seek music from everywhere and hear all kinds of music. Ustad Allah Rakha and other Carnatic layakaars influenced me, thus, I was more drawn to laya.
 
 
 In the earlier years, when I started off with my grandfather’s sitar, I was using an ivory bridge. Later I had to switch to a deer-horn bridge with ivory being banned in India. But it used to become unstable within a week under the impact of my strokes. So I experimented briefly with polymer material, ultra-light hard wood from Japan and later settled down with an ebony Jawari bridge, which suited my acoustic preferences best.
 However, that wasn’t enough, I wanted to design my own instrument.  , who was considered to be one of the best sitar makers in India, said that my specifications were impractical. So, I turned to a sitar-maker in Miraj and got the instrument made. Its tumba was smaller than a standard sitar, making the pitch higher, perfectly suiting my acoustic requirement.
 
 
 It's very difficult to single out one, but I can tell you about a concert in South Africa. The organisers asked me to play something light keeping in mind that it was the first classical music concert there, and nobody has any knowledge about Indian classical music. I told them not to give me directions and tell their requirements instead. They said, people should appreciate classical music and not find it difficult to understand. I did exactly the opposite of what I was asked to do. I played my music, didn't make any change, and the audience relished it. Now they regularly organise classical music concerts. I feel that if you play sincerely, your listeners will feel the impact, even if they don't understand your music.
 
 
