The group of specially abled children sang traditional harvest folk songs of their land, danced, and played in the soil as they ploughed, tilled and planted rice saplings in the paddy field. But the greenery and rich soil are not in Kerala, or India for that matter, but in the city of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates! For the 67 children from Kerala, Goa, North India and the Middle East, it was a novel experience as even the sight of a paddy field amidst the sands of Sharjah was new to them, while their parents rejoiced on seeing them doing something productive..

 The children planted the saplings in the 27 cents of land situated next to the rented home of agriculturalist  , and followed his directions. “I am overwhelmed seeing the enthusiasm of the kids. I gave them two weeks’ training, both theory and practice. We let them play on the field and asked the parents not to worry about them getting muddy. They are getting to know nature,” he says.
 
 Sudheesh, who promotes organic farming in UAE, came up with the idea after watching a programme about differently abled kids on television. “As part of enlightening the next generation on the need for agriculture, I had taken students of three schools to the open space beside my house to plant rice saplings, four months back. It was really fruitful and we got five ‘paras’ (around 40 kg) of paddy. We have processed it at home,” he says. 
 
 
  
  
 
 It wasn’t an easy process making the dry soil of Sharjah fertile, Sudheesh reveals. “It was a long and strenuous process. I tilled the land, watered it for months, added dry cow dung and dry goat pellets and did vermicomposting, making the soil suitable for cultivation. Once the land became fertile, things were easy,” Sudheesh explains.
 
 This time, he decided to take differently abled children to his farm. “When I spoke to Dr P Mary Anitha who works closely with the specially abled kids, she said that working in the fields can help them undergo therapies such as mud therapy, greenery therapy, water therapy and physiotherapy. I decided to go ahead,” he says. The plantation festival began on the morning of January 13, at 10 am, and went on till 1 pm, followed by a few cultural programmes. The harvesting will be done during the time of Vishu. “There were singers, dancers besides kids with other talents. I learnt a new lesson by joining them to plant saplings. Nothing is impossible for them, and they don’t our sympathy. They should be treated like everybody else,” he says.
 
 Sudheesh, an electrical engineer from Guruvayoor, was working at the Sharjah Electricity and Water Authority before he quit his job in 2002, after falling in love with farming.
 
