INDORE:   are one of the three teams who are yet to win the  ,   and Delhi Daredevils being the other two. The closest they came was four years back but lost the final to Kolkata Knight Riders.

 
 
 
 Punjab, hoping for a turnaround this season after the fresh auction, started the season with a bang, winning five out of first six matches. However, their fortunes went on a downswing thereafter, the team losing four out of the next five. While they are still holding the third spot and are very much in knockout contention, it’s the inconsistency which is worrying the team management, especially when the tournament is reaching the business end.
 
 Skipper   would be hoping to get his team back on track when his boys take on RCB on Monday. It’s their last match at the Holkar Stadium, their adopted home, this season. They are up against a desperate rival, a team which needs to win all its three remaining games as RCB still have a mathematical chance of making the playoffs.
 
 Bangalore have nothing to lose and thus are more dangerous. On Sunday, they knocked out a stiff target with relative ease against Delhi Daredevils with Virat Kohli and   producing yet another batting masterclass together.
 
 De Villiers, in fact, had scored a blistering 46-ball 89 when the two teams met here last year. However, he couldn’t prevent his side from slipping to a crushing defeat. The South African has a good record at this ground and it would be a challenge for Punjab to stop him.
 
 Punjab need to address quite a few things. Their batsmen need to give more support to KL Rahul who is doing it all alone at the moment. The opener has scored 245 runs in the last three matches but Kings XI still ended up losing two of those. The middle order continues to give jitters to the team management.
 
 Both Mayank Agrawal and Aaron Finch, who are regular openers, are finding it difficult to get going in the middle order. Agrawal has looked in good touch but is yet to play a meaningful knock. He has scored only 118 runs in his nine innings.
 
 With Gayle back at the top, Finch is also forced to play in the middle order. Punjab need a substantial knock from the experienced Aussie.
 
 The Punjab attack has been effective though it did concede the highest total of the tournament this season on Saturday as nothing clicked for the bowlers.
 
 
