NAGPUR/PUNE: The admissions to the graduate courses in state, particularly in the professional courses, is going to get tough. Thanks to the increase in numbers of students scoring over 90% in the   examinations. As per the board officials, there is a jump of 43% in the those crossing the 90% barrier, which was once considered as a merit score.

 
 
 
 Last year, about 3,819 students scored above 90% and the number swelled to 5,486 this year. Mumbai division has the highest number of such students followed by Pune. Nagpur is at third position with 698 students crossing the 90% barrier. Last year, about 455 students managed to get 90% and above scores from the city, which is a jump of 143 this year.
 
 A look at statistics of marks provided by the board shows there is an increase of over 14,300 students scoring in distinction and even in those securing first class marks from the state. There is, however, a drop in those scoring marks in second and pass class. This is unlike 2016 when there was an increase of students across all categories.
 
 In Nagpur division, there is an increase of 988 students scoring distinction marks as compared to last year. However, there is a decrease in those securing first, second and pass class. In Amravati, there is a jump of 1,674 students scoring meritorious marks.
 
 According to educationists, the extra marks by virtue of students representing their district, state or country in various tournaments have also led to high scores among students.
 
 Chairperson of the   state board of secondary and higher secondary school, Shakuntala Kale said, “Apart from the extra marks given to students excelling in sports, there is no other particular reason why there was a rise in the number of students scoring more than 90%.”
 
 While admissions to courses like engineering and medical are not solely dependent on HSC marks, the 90-plus scorers who decide to take admissions to undergraduate courses such as computer science, computer application, management and finance among others will have a tough competition from candidates across boards.
 
 “The cut-off for science stream is always high. This time, since there are more students who have secured over 90% marks, the cut-offs for science stream will definitely be high. But since the overall passing percentage has come down, even students who have secured less percentages will be able to get admissions. Although, due to the increase in the 90s club, it will be hard to get admission in renowned colleges,” said principal of  , Ravindrasinh Pardeshi.
 
 The increase in the number of students scoring above 90 % is not only in the state board exams, but is also a trend in non-state board results including CBSE and ISC as well. Several students reported more than 95% scores from the city which will lead to a tough competition in the admissions.
 
 
