He’s 29 and doesn’t have that urban sophistication. In fact,   fumbles when he speaks in English. And yet, this village lad from   has managed to walk away with the second runner-up title in the Mr Gay World 2018 pageant, held in Knysna, South Africa, between May 21 and 26. After the win, Samarpan, who’s submitted a PhD thesis on his research on a new brain cancer drug, told us from Knysna, “It’s a huge privilege for me. But I also took it as a great responsibility because I was representing a country where having a samesex relationship is still a crime. I took it as a challenge. After all, it might help change the mindset of our society.” It’s worth mentioning here that the pageant featured contestants from 21 countries. While Jordon Bruno from Australia won the title, Ricky Devine White from   was the first runner up.

 
 
 For Samarpan, who hails from a small village, Siddha, in East Midnapore, language was a hurdle during the contest. “My language problem did pose a challenge, but then, I realised that it’s your philosophy that makes the difference. If you have a clear, liberal perspective in life, it doesn’t matter which language you speak. The judges and the audience appreciated what I said,” the young model said.
 
 When asked about how he came to know about the pageant, he said, “A few English dailies covered the event in 2016. Back then, I was doing extensive research on issues faced by LGBTQ people in rural areas. I wanted to highlight these issues and to reach out to a bigger audience nationwide. So, when I came to know that the pageant backs someone who could fight for the rights of the community, I decided to participate in it and carry on with my work on a bigger platform.”
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 His humble background has always kept him rooted. When he moved to Kolkata after graduation, he found it a bit difficult to mix with the uber-sophisticated LGBTQ community in the city. “Initially, I found them a bit snooty. Gradually, I found like-minded people in the community and peer groups. Besides my research work and modelling, I always wanted to work with the LGBTQ community from the underprivileged sections of society. The level of discrimination and social bullying they face is unbelievable! I have worked with them and this win will help me in my mission. Without their participation, equal rights isn’t possible,”   said.
 
 
 
 
 Samarpan’s journey was not easy, as he’s faced a lot of discrimination and social bullying. “There was a time when my seniors refused to work with me. I faced a lot of issues in my educational institution for being famous and on top of that, for being gay. But things change when you are an achiever. Now, I get messages from them saying that they are proud of me. And I hope this is the change we are looking for,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 While same-sex love is a crime in his own country, Samarpan has no plan to accept the invites he received from many co-contestants. “I was amazed to know about how so many countries have no issues with gay relationships. I received many invitations to shift to those countries, but escaping is not a solution for me. In fact, it has inspired me to fight harder for that freedom in our country too,” Samarpan signed off.
 
 
