NEW DELHI: Mumbai Indians are one of those   teams who have always preferred to keep their best for the last. The three-time IPL champions usually peak only when their qualification for the playoff stage is on the line. The 2014 edition comes to mind when they needed 190 to win in 14.3 overs in their last league match and Aditya Tare hit a six off the last ball to secure the playoff berth.

 
 
 
 Even last year’s IPL final was ultimately decided off the final ball with Mumbai emerging champions over the now-defunct Rising Pune Supergiant. It hasn’t got to that stage as yet but equation is pretty simple for now - beat Delhi Daredevils on Sunday and progress into the playoffs without worrying about the net run-rate.
 
 
 
 Mumbai’s 2018 campaign has been a roller-coaster without any sort of momentum so far. The only time they strung a few wins on the trot was the start of this month when they defeated Kings XI Punjab and KKR twice for three wins in a row. The three wins followed a slump against Rajasthan Royals at home and they only managed to remain in the playoff hunt thanks to a nail-biting win over Kings XI by three runs on Wednesday.
 
 The backbone of the MI show so far has been a Mumbai boy, Suryakumar Yadav. Elevated to the top of the order, the former Mumbai captain has been in phenomenal touch. Topping their run charts, Surya has notched up 500 runs with no other MI batsman even coming close.
 
 “We are not thinking about any scenarios as yet. We just want to do what is right, especially get the small things right. The first priority will be to win the match on Sunday,” Yadav said here on Saturday.
 
 On paper, it’s not a tough ask as Daredevils are the wooden-spooners of the season but Chennai Super Kings found out to their peril on Friday night that it’s easier said than done. The   track appears to be on its last legs, as we head towards the end of the cricketing season. The Delhi heat is taking its toll as the pitch appears to be getting progressively slower.
 
 “I didn’t catch the Delhi-Chennai match on Friday but we have experience of playing on the Kotla track. The Delhi pitch is slow and low most of the time and I think we’ll be able to deal with the conditions here,” Yadav added.
 
 The Daredevils will once again stride out hoping to spoil the MI party while the visitors will bank on their superior ‘death-over’ bowling led by Jasprit Bumrah and Hardik Pandya to keep the promising Delhi batsmen in check.
 
