GANDHINAGAR: Farmers in the state are staring at another parched summer with the government announcing it will not be able to give Narmada water from   for irrigation of summer crops. Supply of Narmada water for irrigation and industrial purposes will be stopped from March 15 the government has declared, as the impending water crisis requires husbanding of the dam water for drinking purposes.

 Lowest rainwater inflow in 15 years in Narmada catchment areas in Madhya Pradesh has more than halved Narmada water in Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and   spurring Gujarat government to prepare for an imminent drought-like situation. 
 
 Speaking to reporters on Monday, Gujarat chief secretary,   said, “Against a storage capacity of of 5,860 MCM (million cubic metres), we had only have 455 MCM water on January 21.” Singh said last year on this date Gujarat had 1,173 MCM water in its reserves.
 
 Preparing for imminent drought, and lacking any concrete alternate plan to address a state-wide water crisis, the state government has advised municipal corporations to look for local sources of water to meet their needs and not to rely on water supply from Narmada this summer. 
 
 Similarly, farmers and industries have been abandoned to fend for themselves. “Due to unavailability, farmers will not be given water for summer crop. So, we request farmers to plant their crop only if they have water from local sources. We have also ordered stopping any kind of unauthorised use of Narmada canal water for industrial or irrigation purpose,’’ Singh said.
 
 Admitting the severity of the situation, Singh told reporters, “Water availability is certainly in a critical situation, but drinking water supply will not face any issues. We have instructed local authorities like municipal corporations in Ahmedabad and Vadodara and other agencies to plan their water budget depending on local sources other than Narmada canal water.”
 
 “Due to closing of the   dam gates, we have been able to store more water and stop it from flowing to the sea,” Singh said, adding, “To ensure sufficient drinking water supply for all cities, towns and villages, the government has decided to stop water supply for irrigation as well as for majority of industries.”
 
 Explaining the reason for the extreme steps, Singh said, “This year, the inflows of rainwater from the Narmada catchment area in Madhya Pradesh is the lowest in 15 years.”
 
 The lack of rain in MP has fouled the calculations of Sardar Sarovar Reservoir Regulation Committee of the  , and much less water than initially estimated has been received in Narmada reservoir system, Singh said.
 
 Singh also said that usually the state receives about 9 MAF (million acre feet) of water and of this 0.20 MAF is give for industrial use. However, this year, the state has received only 4.71 MAF Narmada water and hence not more than 0.06 MAF can be spared for industrial use, which is less than one-third of what is usually given to industries.
 
 
