Visakhapatnam: The Indian Institute of Management-  (IIM-V) has managed to achieve 100% placements for a second year in a row, in further indication of a growing demand for talent emerging from the country’s premier business schools.

 The average annual package for the top quartile offers is Rs 16 lakh and the top half is Rs 14 lakh. The average salary of the batch is Rs 12 lakh.
 
 Dominant roles offered were sales and marketing (44%), consulting (11%) and general management (9%). The final placement process for IIM-V was held on a rolling basis and the institute witnessed 42 companies participating in the process. Due to a strong performance of students in summer internship and corporate competitions, about 18% of the students received pre-placement offers/interviews.
 
 Other key roles offered to IIM-V students included finance, analytics and strategy (each 7%), and product management, Fintech and operations (each 4%) and human resources (2%).
 
 IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar thanked recruiters for the trust and confidence reposed in the institute for the second consecutive year. 
 
 “Our students have once again done us proud with their stellar performance in the placements. The mentorship provided by IIM-Bangalore and facilitation by the Career Development Services team are the key enablers of our success,” said Prof Chandrasekhar.
 
 One of the leading consulting firms, KPMG, recruited students for their government advisory and strategy and operations consulting practice. Leading FMCG company Amul recruited students in the domain of sales and marketing. Infrastructure giant GMR extended offers to IIM-V students for its management trainee programme in the operations domain. One student bagged an off-campus offer from Deloitte Consulting.
 
 Engineering and electronics multinational Bosch, IT/ITeS companies like Sutherland Global Services, TechAspect and Click Labs offered roles in general management, business development, strategy and digital marketing domains.
 
 Analytics and decision sciences firms like MuSigma and Perceptive Analytics offered domain-specific roles.
 
 IIM-V’s Career Development Services chairperson Prof Ganesh N Prabhu congratulated the entire second batch of IIM-V for securing excellent job offers of their choice from many recruiters.
 
 
