Bhopal: Congress stalwart Kamal Nath will take over as Pradesh Congress chief in a massive show of strength — a five-hour road rally that will wind its way through the streets of Bhopal. There will be 12 Congress stalwarts — including Digvijay Singh and Jyotiraditya Scindia — alongside Kamal Nath, leading the party’s roadshow. Going by MP’s caste-ridden politics, the caste equation of these 13 leaders became a topic of discussion — perhaps more so because no one was sure of Kamal Nath’s caste. That suspense was lifted on Monday, after almost four decades of Nath’s being in politics. He is a Brahmin, Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh said during an informal chat with the media on Monday. With six months to go for the election, Congress president Rahul Gandhi handed the party’s reins to the 73-year-old four days ago. Till now, it was thought that Kamal Nath was a Khatri. But Ajay Singh said that he is a Punjabi Brahmin. When Kamal Nath, a classmate of Sanjay Gandhi at Doon School, came to Chhindwara to contest his first Lok Sabha elections, his campaign was personally managed by then chief minister Ajun Singh (Ajay’s father) and his wife Saroj Singh. Ajay Singh said that Kamal Nath has been close to the family ever since. The media then calculated that on Tuesday, there will be three Brahmin faces leading the Congress — Kamal Nath, former Union minister Suresh Pachauri and Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha. The Congress’ powerful Thakur lobby will be represented by Digvijaya Singh and Ajay Singh. Congress is well aware of the strength of chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan as an OBC leader, and will have four leaders from the community standing behind Kamal Nath — MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, the party’s campaign committee chief, outgoing PCC president Arun Yadav and newly-appointed working presidents Ram Niwas Rawat and Jitu Patwari. With 82 SC/ST reserved seats in the 230-seat assembly, Congress MP from Ratlam Kantilal Bhuria and deputy LoP Bala Bachchan — both tribals — will show their solidarity with Nath. The SC face in Tuesday’s road show will be state Congress SC cell chief and newly appointed working president Surender Choudhary. For his official coronation, Kamal Nath will reach Bhopal around 10:30am. The Congress’ road show with the new chief will start from Raja Bhoj Airport and reach state PCC office in the afternoon. Here, there will be a welcome ceremony in front of the statue of Indira Gandhi’s statue where Kamal Nath will give his first speech as state party chief. At 4pm, he will address the media and thereafter, there is a meeting over tea at the official residence of Ajay Singh. On Wednesday — after visiting temples in Bhopal, Ujjain and Datia — Kamal Nath will take his first meeting of the Congress legislative party in the evening in Bhopal.