LUDHIANA: Chief minister   laid the foundation stones of five much-awaited  , worth nearly Rs 200 crore, for the city on Sunday. 

 The CM unveiled a Rs 44.38-crore LED street lights project and another Rs 39.3-crore, 24x7 water-supply project, during his whirlwind visit to the city. Officials said the government was in the process of allotting contracts of the projects and work on them would be started in the next few months.“They will pave the way for greater development in the city, which is a major industrial and business hub for the state,” said Amarinder, promising that his government would continue to take projects in the city on priority.
 
 The CM was in the city for the distribution of appointment letters to youth at the culmination of the 2nd Mega Job Fair, conducted by his government under the ‘Ghar Ghar Rozagar’ scheme. The three other projects whose foundation stone was laid included the road signs project (Rs 9.14 crore), Sarabha Nahar market landscapping project (Rs 14.88 crore), and phase I of Smart Street,  .
 
 Under the LED lights project, 1.05 lakh ordinary street lights will be replaced with efficient LED lights. The MC is soon going to issue work orders to the company soon and it is expected to be completed by December 12. Officials said LED lights are expected save 63.25% of the enery consumed every year by the city, translating into savings of Rs 6.09 crore for the first year. 
 
 Projects the CM unveiled
 
 LED lights | Under theRs 44.38-crore project, 1.05 lakh ordinary street lights will be replaced with efficient LED lights. The MC is soon going to issue work orders to the company soon and it is expected to be completed by December 12. Officials say LED lights are expected save 63.25% of the enery consumed every year by the city, translating into savings of Rs 6.09 crore for the first year. 
 
 Road signs | Under the Rs Rs 9.14-crore project, 757 road signs of eight types will be installed at various locations in the city for public information. 
 
 Sarabha Nagar market retrofitting | Under the project, the state government is going to undertake the landscapping of the market. The main features of the project are: increase and improvement of public plaza, addition of landscape elements, improvement of user comfort, better services and utilities, electrical undergrounding, additional services such as fire service, groundwater recharge for future utilities and regularisation of parking. It wil cost Rs 14.88 crore. 
 
 24x7 water supply | Through this project, residents in Ludhiana’s ABD area will get water supply through   for 24 hours. At present, the supply is through 25 tubewells in the areas and lasts for only 10 hours. Under the new project, a distribution network of 90km will be laid to ensure 24x7 water supply. The duration of the design-build-commissioning project, slated to start on May 25, will be in 21 months, with operation and maintenance period of five years after completion and commissioning of project works. It will cost Rs 39.30 crore.
 
 Storm drain | The project will involve upgrading the existing sewerage system (approx 49km), and replacing damaged / hydraulically inadequate sewers (2.6km. The project is expected to start on May 25. There will be complete transformation of existing storm drain system. The project will cost Rs 22.59crore.
 
 Smart street on Malhar Road | Under this project, smart utilities, road diet, shared pathways, regulated parking and other smart concepts have been proposed for Malhar Road. It is also aimed to provide adequate streetscape elements, such as street lights, wayfinding, garbage bins, amenity zones for vendors, bus shelters, and public toilets. The project will cost Rs. 22.75 crore
 
 
