GURUGRAM: Villagers of Manesar, Kukrola and Sehrawan wrote to   Ram Nath Kovind on Republic Day, seeking his intervention to save forest area in the Aravalis, amounting to around 65 acres, on which the   on   is proposed to be relocated from Kherki Daula.

 “It has been proposed that [a] total of 65 acres, five kanals and 14 marlas of forest and belonging to gram panchayats in the Aravalis, be handed over to   (NHAI). 
 
 This area has a good presence of wildlife, including leopards, hyenas, jackals, deer, monitor lizards, nilgai, porcupines, etc. Hence, the villagers/gram sabhas of Manesar do not agree (want) to use the sacred forest/panchayat land for non-forest and commercial activity. Kindly take necessary action to protect the age-old forest land,” states the letter sent by Ram Avatar Yadav, former sarpanch of Manesar. The letter has been signed by more than 250 villagers.
 
 Reportedly, over 59 acres of the land slated to be acquired falls under Manesar village, while about 5.5 acres is under Sehrawan and nearly one-and-a-half acres under Kukrola.
 
 “For us, god exists in the forest. This forest is age-old, and contains ‘Ada nallah’, a check dam built by the British, and ‘Khemuwala johad’, a pond that remains filled with water throughout the year. There are many more ponds and drains in it. The proposed toll plaza will disturb the movement of leopards and other wild animals, who migrate from north to south through this area. The road passing through this forest area has already witnessed three leopard deaths in the recent past. We’re sure the President will understand our concerns and direct the authorities not to relocate the toll plaza here,” Singh told TOI.
 
 Environmentalist KK Yadav, a former chief town planner, who has also been raising the issue, said, “The forest works as a water recharge zone not only for the check dam and other water bodies that supply our villages, it also recharges the depleting groundwater table. Villagers have protected and safeguarded the Aravalis since ages, as the forest, which we worship, is sacred to us.”
 
 Over a lakh people live in Manesar village, while Kukrola and Sehrawan have populations of about 25,000 and 4,000 respectively.
 
 
