NEW DELHI:   plans a product offensive in the Indian car market and is set to launch three new cars over the coming year. Also, on the horizon from the company may be an all-new   in Rs 12-15 lakh range as it finalises plans for the HR-V off-roader.

 The company, which sold nearly 1.8 lakh cars last year, has lined up an all-new  , a complete makeover when compared to the outgoing model. The model will be the first to be launched and may be priced over Rs 5 lakh. It will come with a 1.2-litre petrol engine and 1.5-litre diesel.
 
 Apart from the Amaze, the company will also bring back two of its formidable models — the   premium sedan and the CR-V luxury SUV. The Civic had been phased out in 2013 after sluggish demand, but the company now feels that its newgen version will give a leg-up to its numbers in the market.
 
 “The Civic will be driven in later this year, and this will be placed over the City sedan,”  , president and CEO of  , told   at the Auto Expo. The model is expected to be priced around Rs 14 lakh, and will compete primarily with the Toyota Altis and Skoda Octavia. The model is expected to carry a 1.8-litre petrol engine and a 1.6-litre diesel.
 
 The CR-V — though still available in a limited range — gets a fresh focus with the launch of the new-gen version, and will be unveiled in diesel for the first time ever. “We have been on the fringe of the luxury SUV market as we never had a diesel engine. Now, the new car will come with a 1.6-litre diesel while there will be a choice between a 2-litre and a 2.4-litre engine in petrol. It is still being finalised,” Ueno said.
 
 Honda has been trying to up its game in India, but has received a series of reversals as competition hit hard and movement to diesel impacted volumes. At its peak, the company — which has an annual production capacity of 2.4-lakh units per annum — had sold just over 2 lakh units (in 2015).
 
 “With the new cars, we are hopeful that volumes will be strong and demand will be firm,” the company’s CEO said.
 
 On the HR-V SUV, Ueno said that it is one of Honda’s successful models across many markets and this is being studied for India. “We are receiving a lot of enquiries… and are making an assessment. It can be one of the options for India as we reinforce our SUV portfolio here.”
 
 The HR-V may be available in both petrol and diesel options —1.5-litre petrol and 1.6-litre diesel. “The market is shifting to SUVs and we are strongly following the trend.”
 
