Tirunelveli: A 17-year-old boy committed suicide by hanging himself from a bridge on the South Bypass Road in Tirunelveli on Wednesday morning as he was upset over his father’s addiction to alcoholism.

 Police identified the deceased as M Dinesh Nallasivan, who had completed Class XII and had been preparing for the National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET). Dinesh was the eldest of the three children of S Madasamy, a labourer in Kerala. His mother, Esakiammal, died nine years ago, and his father married another woman, with whom he has a five-year-old child..
 
 Nallasivan was found dead hanging halfway between the railway overbridge and the track with a school bag on his back. Upon being alerted by locals, the   police retrieved the body. 
 
 In a suicide note which police recovered from his bag, Dinesh asked his father not to perform the final rites. “Father this is a letter from Dinesh. Don’t drink at least after I die. Since you are drinking I don’t want you to perform the final rites like shaving your head or cremating me. Only then my soul will rest in peace,” the letter stated. He also reiterated his plea to his father to stop consuming alcohol. 
 
 The letter further stated that his paternal uncle Sankarakuthalam alias Mani (whom he refers to as Mani appa) should perform the final rites for him. 
 
 “Let us see if the chief minister closes down   liquor shops in  . If not, my spirit will destroy the shops,” the note written in Tamil stated. Besides the suicide note, the bag contained a damaged mobile phone wrapped in a plastic cover, his NEET examination hall ticket and SSLC marksheet.
 
 The body was sent to the Tirunelveli Medical College and Hospital for postmortem.
 
 Police and revenue officials went to the boy’s house at Reddiapatti near Sankarankovil and conducted inquiries.
 
 Dinesh’s brother, Esakiraj, is studying in Class VIII while his sister,  , is a Class VII student. 
 
 After his mother’s death, Dinesh was brought up by his uncle Mani in Madurai. His brother and sister lived with their stepmother in   village near Kurukalpatti, in Sankarankovil Taluk, Tirunelveli.
 
 Dinesh, who did his higher secondary schooling at a residential school in Namakkal, was supposed to write NEET on May 6.
 
 Police said the boy told his uncle that he was going to his aunt’s house at Kayathar, in neighbouring Tuticorin district. He spoke to his father over phone on Tuesday night and pleaded with him to give up alcohol. But the conversation ended on a bitter note, resulting in the boy taking the extreme step.
 
 Dinesh’s uncle, Sankarakuthalam, told reporters that his brother (Dinesh’s father) was an alcoholic and that this resulted in frequent quarrels between the father and son. “He loved his dad and used to ask him to give up alcoholism, but his father did not. The boy had been trying hard for five years to stop him from consuming alcohol,” Sankarakuthalam said.
 
 Vox Pop
 
 “Parents should stop drinking and sacrifice it for the sake of their children. The government should close down all the liquor shops to save youth and their future,” – Dinesh’s uncle Mani.
 
 “He (Dinesh) was a studies boy and wanted to become a doctor and had big dreams. He hopes that his death would change his father,” – Dinesh’s grandfather Subbaiah
 
 
