A progressive farmer  , who is contesting against minister for forest, environment and ecology B Ramanath Rai, in the   assembly constituency, is widely perceived as a ‘soft person’ rather than a politician in his constituency. Though popular in his constituency, not only as a politician, but as a   at his Oddoor Farms in Tehnkayedapadavu village, Naik did not win the 2013 assembly election against Rai. But he succeeded in bagging 40.86% votes. Naik’s hopes this time around are pinned on his increasing popularity, party base and backing of RSS and its leader,  .

  
  
 
 
 
 
 In the 2013 election, I was a newcomer. The situation inside the party was also different then. Most BJP leaders were not with us and there was confusion. Still I bagged 63,815 votes against Rai. I don’t think it will be difficult for me to get majority this time as I have been with the people for the past five years.
 
 
 
 I am not thinking about my opponents. I am following positive politics with the goal of winning. I am thinking only about my campaign and our party’s vote. I consider all candidates as my opponents.
 
 
 
 Though KJP did not get much support in the previous election in Bantwal, we lost many leaders. Further, there were apprehensions of people turning against us. However, the situation is very clear and favourable this time, and the party is united.
 
 
 
 
 I consider this is my strength. People don’t want riots and lawlessness, they want peace and harmony. People have witnessed the atrocities, riots and killings that took place in Bantwal constituency in the past five years.
 
 
 
 
 Development of the constituency is my overall aim and priority is to introduce underground drainage to Bantwal. People of Bantwal taluk and Mangaluru City drink water pumped from Nethravati river. Hence, underground drainage in Bantwal town is most essential. If Nethravati river is polluted, it will affect the health of the people of Bantwal and Mangaluru City too. However, this issue has never been discussed seriously by the government.
 
 
 
 Kalladka Prabhakar Bhat is a senior leader of the RSS and his influence on the electorate is significant. Undoubtedly, his ideologies will help our party to a victory, not only in my constituency, but also in all the eight segments in Dakshina Kannada district.
 
 
