MUMBAI: Residents of the suburbs can look forward to a significant boost in   as a mammoth share of the allocation for the health sector in the civic budget has been earmarked for upgrade of infrastructure, manpower and increasing bed strength at the  . With an allocation of Rs 3637 crore, an increase of 10% from the previous fiscal, the health sector has received 13% of the overall budget.

 In all, beds at suburban hospitals will go up by nearly 800 in the next two years. At present, a lion share of the public beds are concentrated in south and central Mumbai where the tertiary care hospitals such as KEM, Sion and Nair are located. In the western suburbs, Rs 30crore has been allotted for upgrade of Bhagwati Hospital in Borivli, to increase its bed strength from 323 to 490. Besides, Rs 50lakh has been budgeted for Bandra’s Bhabha Hospital, while Babasaheb Ambedkar in Kandivli has been allocated Rs 7crore.
 
  
  
 
 
 In the central suburbs,   has allocated Rs 30crore to increase beds at MT Agrawal Hospital, Mulund, to 470 from 225. The overall project will cost around Rs 380crore. The Centenary Hospital at Govandi, where the quality of medical services have often come under scanner, will be upgraded at a cost of Rs 470 crore. The budget made a provision of Rs 30crore for increasing the bed count by nearly three times from 219.
 
 Additional municipal commissioner IS Kundan said the budget has emphasized on three areas: infrastructure, services and human resource. A whopping Rs 1,000 crore has been set aside to upgrade Sion hospital and increase its bed count to 1,800 from 1,400 while Rs 12crore has been allocated to install cardiac catheterization labs at Sion, KEM and Cooper hospitals. At the cost of Rs 16 crore, around 230 ventilators are being installed in major and peripheral hospitals. Keeping sleep disorders in mind, a sleep unit is likely to be started at   in Juhu. To raise manpower, around 274 posts of post graduate medical officers will be filled up. 
 
  Dr PM Bhujang, president of Association of Hospitals, said that while better allocation was welcome, quality monitoring was equally essential.
 
 
