COIMBATORE: Forty-two-year old R Ramani, a homemaker, was shocked to find that 1kg of broiler chicken was sold at Rs 220 on Sunday. “Around two months ago, I would buy 1kg for around Rs 100, but this time it has almost doubled,” she said and added that she had to cut down on the quantity because of the high price.

 The price of broiler chicken has increased steeply in the city. On Sunday, outlets in various parts of the city sold 1kg broiler chicken anywhere between Rs 200 and Rs 220. 
 
 The price of broiler chicken usually goes up in summer. But this year it has increased more than the usual price, said chicken traders in the city. Live chicken was sold at Rs 140.
 
 Broiler chicken growers and traders say the productivity of chicken comes down in summer due to high mortality rate of the birds.
 
  U  , who runs a broiler chicken farm cum a retail outlet, said during summer the average production of chicken comes down. 
 
 “Usually in 40 days a chicken would weigh around 2.4kg, but in summer they would weigh only around 1.7kg to 1.8kg, because of which the average production comes down,” he said. Also, in summer breeders reduce the feed for chicken, he said. 
 
 “In summer, if chickens are fed too much, they couldn’t digest it and would die,” he added.
 
 Fearing increased mortality rate among the birds, breeders said during summer they reduce the feed and the number of chicken. M Kandaswamy, president of  , said for 10,000 chicks, they would get 22,000kg of meat in winter. But in summer they would get only 17,000kg. 
 
 “This would result in a decrease in the chicken production of the whole district from 40lakh kg to 30lakh kg,” he said. Also, during summer holidays, the demand for meat goes up and due to the decreased production, the rate increases, he said. “But this year the price has gone up by Rs10 more than last year,” he added.
 
 Moreover, the ban on fishing during the season has increased the demand on chicken, which also had led to the increase in the prices, said chicken traders.
 
 Hoteliers in the city said the increase in chicken prices this summer has also cost them dear. S  , of   at VOC Park in the city, said due to the price rise the shop incurs around Rs 12,000 loss daily.
 
  “We buy around 200 chickens daily. Now as the price of a chicken has gone up, we incur a loss. But as the customers footfalls also increase during summer, we can’t reduce the quantity of chicken we buy,” he said.
 
 The price of mutton also has gone up, say mutton traders. This is because goat rearers had sold off all their livestock last year due to drought. "This year there is a scarcity for mutton," said  , a meat trader from the city. On Sunday, mutton sold for Rs 500 per kg, Rs 100 more than last month. 
 
 
