HYDERABAD: After the killing of al-Qaida operative Muhammed Taufeeq in an encounter in Kashmir, his family has locked up their official accommodation at Manuguru in   district and have gone incommunicado .

 Police found that Taufeeq’s father Mohammed   is a technician with the department of atomic energy’s Heavy Water Plant at Manuguru and the slain militant was not in touch with his family since 2016.
 
 Taufeeq, 26, a native of   near Ashwapuram in Bhadradri Kothagudem district, was the only son of Razaq.
 
 After the news broke out about Taufeeq’s death in Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir, Telangana Counter Intelligence (CI) sleuths along with district police looked for his family. They discovered that Razak’s family locked their official quarters at Gowtami Nagar a day after the encounter and went to a relative’s house.
 
 Initial reports claimed   had been involved in a prior case, but police later clarified there is no criminal record against him. “If Razak was involved in any criminal case, he would have been suspended from service. We came to know that due to health problems, he, along with other family members, went to another place. We are trying to contact the family,” Bhadradri Kothagudem district superintendent of police (SP) Ambar Kishor Jha said.
 
 On Wednesday, police issued a press release stating that Taufeeq had no criminal record in Telangana state either. As of Thursday, records at Manugur and Ashwapuram local police stations were still being scrutinised to see if there were any cases booked against Taufeeq when he was a minor.
 
 On Thursday evening, police found out that Taufeeq’s father Razak went to his daughter’s house in Kallur town in Khammam district.
 
 During enquiries, police found out that Taufeeq’s family lost touch with him in 2016, when he went to Hyderabad to look for a job. Family members of Taufeeq told police that he pursued civil engineering diploma in  , but the SP said they were yet to get a confirmation about it. “We are verifying details,” the SP added.
 
 Razaq’s neighbours, who came to know about Taufeeq’s death in Kashmir, were surprised. “Taufeeq studied up to class 10 in the local school at Ashwapuram. His father Razak is a good-natured man. We are all in a shock after coming to know about the incident,” his neighbour, Srinivas said.
 
 Telangana police, in the official statement, claimed Taufeeq was radicalised into Islamic State ideology via social media and he went to Kashmir to participate in terror activities of the banned outfit. Taufeeq is survived by his parents and two sisters.
 
