NEW DELHI: The SC-mandated Environment Pollution Control Authority, in its recent report to the  , has recalled how the south corporation has still not managed to implement a radio frequency identification system for charging environment compensation charge from trucks entering the city. 

 This delay may have led to the under-reporting of the number of trucks entering the city and, consequently, a major shortfall in the collection of ECC from trucks, as reported by TOI on Monday. The   project has still not been awarded because of complications in the tendering process.
 
 
  
 
 In October 2015, the SC — while imposing ECC on all commercial vehicles entering Delhi — had also directed the installation of RFID at least nine entry points by November of the same year. Again, in January 2016, it stressed on the urgency of implementing RFID for ECC. 
 
 “We leave it open to the authority concerned to examine the feasibility of any better arrangement … We only hope that an appropriate decision on the subject will not be delayed any further and would expect the authorities to file a status report by the next hearing,” the apex court had said. 
 
 The top court saw the RFID system as a solution to plugging leakages and corruption. EPCA members believe had RFID been implemented on time, it could have prevented leakage of ECC money to the tune of nearly Rs800 crore. 
 
 But   had to terminate its contract with its toll contractor, which was also supposed to implement RFID. Harish Salve, amicus to SC on air pollution, had contended that allowing the toll contractor to install RFID might not be the right thing because it would leave the system susceptible to manipulation. 
 
 According to senior SDMC officials, they were initially apprehensive about RFID because NHAI’s experience with RFID has not been very successful. “Only 18% of the   tolls are on RFID. So, we had hired a consultant suggested by EPCA that made the tender document for us in 2017. They made it on a build-operate-transfer mode, which required the successful bidder to invest, design, construct and operate RFID for five years. We received only two bids. That is why we informed EPCA that, maybe, this mode was not favourable and we are not getting enough bidders,” a senior SDMC official said.
 
 SDMC wanted the tender terms reworked to attract wider participation from bidders. The same consultant designed tendering under the Engineering-Procurement-Construction (EPC) mode, which required the successful bidder to undertake the design and construction of the RFID Project in its entirety and operate it for five years. Under this mode, the RFID contractor would get paid for the construction of the project on a milestone basis, during the construction phase itself. 
 
 Further, for discharging its obligations during the operations period, the RFID contractor would be entitled to a monthly fee from SDMC for the entire operations period. The RFID project tender (in EPC mode) was floated by SDMC on November 8, 2017. “The bid due date was postponed twice by SDMC and the bids were received on January 31. EPCA understands the process is underway and the contract will be awarded soon,” EPCA stated in its recent report to SC.
 
 But SDMC officials said it was unlikely that the project would be awarded soon. Of the five bidders in the new mode, two were disqualified due to “conflict of interest”. One of them is the company that conducted a traffic survey for SDMC to ascertain the number of trucks entering Delhi. EPCA pointed that giving the project to them would clearly be a conflict of interest. But the company moved high court against SDMC for faulty tendering and has now moved SC. “The next date of hearing in SC is April 4. We cannot award the project until we have a verdict from SC,” a senior SDMC official said.
 
 But EPCA members said awarding the project to the highest bidder would mean the concessionaire will have interest in ensuring more trucks come in and more ECC is collected. “The whole purpose of ECC as a pollution curbing intervention will be defeated,” an EPCA member told TOI. 
 
 “Even if we have RFID, there will be leakages since RFID cannot help ascertain empty vehicles. Instead, our lawyers have suggested that the highest bidder be awarded the project,” he added.
 
 
