NEW DELHI: For a third straight day, Anirban   was left a bit disappointed with his performance at the  . 2015 winner Lahiri, in Round 2, went one-over to go with a first-round 72 and even though he was happy with his putting strokes, Lahiri struggled to put forward an impressive score.

 
 "It was another very frustrating day for me at the 2018 Hero Indian Open. For the second straight day I did not hit the ball badly and yet I was unable to put together a score and take advantage of the conditions, which were excellent for scoring. I feel that I have putted horribly these two days. I was happy with my putting stroke on Thursday, but I did pull a couple of them on Friday. And even when I made good putts, they just did not drop in," Lahiri wrote in his column for TOI.
 
 "The other thing that is hurting me is that I played conservatively twice on the back nine, and I ended up making a bogey on the 11th and a triple on the 17th. I thought I was being smart on the 17th and hit it left to get a good angle to the green and ended in a downhill lie from where it was almost impossible to hit the green."
 
 However, Lahiri, whose putting game hasn't been at the level he'd have wanted it to be, said he is optimistic about his chances in the third round.
 
 "I was determined to pull it back on the back nine, but just could not get on a roll. After a birdie on the 18th, I missed a short putt for birdie on the first and then three-putted the second for a bogey. It really was a case of one step forward and two steps back the whole day. My putting and my short game haven’t been sharp and that is something that I’ll work on before my 3rd round," he said.
 
 His disappointment aside, Lahiri was particularly impressed with  , who shattered the course record at the challenging DLF Golf course with a sensational eight-under 64 to surge to second place after the unfinished second round. One-over after his first 18 holes on Saturday, Shubhankar dropped just one shot at the seventh hole today and sank as many as nine birdies - three on front nine and six on back nine - to emerge as the best Indian in the field.
 
 "It was great to see Shubhankar Sharma making the charge with an exceptionally good round of eight-under par 64. I think it is nice that he hasn’t played here before and gets to play it in perfect condition. Others like us are still carrying the scars of last year and probably seeing hidden demons on the golf course," Lahir said.
 
 "Shubhankar is going through a purple patch of form, and he is making the most of it. Golf doesn’t give you many such opportunities when anything you touch, turns into gold, and you’ve got to make the most of it. I just hope that long may this continue for him."
 
