Lucknow/Noida: With liquor manufacturers and distributors struggling to subscribe to the new guidelines, resulting in an acute shortage of alcohol across UP, the excise department has said it is relaxing rules that kicked in with the introduction of the   this January.

 Excise commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said that having observed the difficulties pointed out by liquor manufacturers and traders, some relaxations have been offered for now. “Some teething troubles are being experienced in supply of imported brands. For now, some relaxations have been offered to liquor manufacturers and distributors. We have created a robust policy and changes cannot be expected overnight,” said Sahu.
 
 Under the revised liquor policy, the government had made hi-tech measures, like embossing of ‘For sale in UP’ logo on bottles and printing barcodes on bottle labels compulsory to track and trace each bottle. Officials did not specify what the relaxations were but sources said it would be related to these two provisions.
 
 While liquor brands such as Royal Challenge and   are back on the shelves, the new liqour policy has severely hit the supply of imported liquor brands like Johnnie Walker, Absolut Vodka and Jack Daniels.
 
 A liquor seller in Noida said sales business has been badly affected since April 1. “All shops are almost empty as there is no supply of good liquor brands. Consumers are going to Delhi to buy liquor. There are also some people who are making money by taking advantage of the demand-supply gap by transporting illegal liquor from Haryana,” the trader said.
 
 According to market players, the sale of overseas liquor brands contributes about 15% of their total revenue. Sardar SP Singh, president of the union formed by Lucknow-based liquor traders, said, “There is acute shortage of foreign liquor brands since importers are finding it difficult to switch to new rules. Business is down by 50% from last year due to acute shortage.”
 
 Supply of overseas liquor has been totally disrupted and imported rum, vodka, brandy, cognac and gin are yet to the shelves. At present, only a handful of whisky and   brands is available.
 
 To supply popular liquor brands manufactured overseas to retail vendors, a trader needs to have FL-2D licence from the excise department. At the same time, the licence holder needs to comply with the new guidelines. Foreign liquor importers have also been asked to maintain management information system along with scanners in storage facilities.
 
 A liquor store owner in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram agreed the measures would help tackle black marketing but said the government must ease certain norms. 
 
 
