KOTA: A 26-year-old youth committed suicide by shooting himself in the head with an illegally acquired country-made pistol at   in Baran district, the police said on Thursday. Police said the youth killed himself at the house of a girl who turned down his proposal of marriage. 

 
 The boy's body was handed over to his family members after post-mortem by medical board on Thursday. Police have initiated investigation into the matter after lodging a case under section CrPC section 174. The youth identified as Sonu alias  , a resident of Khanpur town of Jhalawar district was found dead in a pool of blood with a bullet of a country-made pistol of 75.65 mm pierced in his head outside bathroom of the girl's home. It was a one-sided affair said  ,   at Baran Sadar police station. The cop added that a knife and a live cartridge were found from his pocket.
 
 The deceased's sister was married to one Vinod Kumar in Faithapur village and the deceased would frequently visit his sister's home from Khanpur, the SHO said. He added that during his visits to his sister's home, he fell in love with a 23-year-old neighbouring girl who was also from his caste and a distant relative. The deceased youth worked as a recovery agent and was a habitual liquor consumer. The deceased youth wanted to marry the girl but she had refused to accept his proposal.
 
 After this he reached Faithapur village on Wednesday morning and attempted to meet the girl, the cop said. The deceased on Wednesday noon was heard speaking to the people around him that he would either kill the girl or himself if she did not agree to marry him, the SHO said. He also made around 25 to 30 calls on her mobile but she received none of the calls following which he reached her home on Wednesday afternoon around 4pm when the girl and other family members were away. 
 
 However, the girl's younger brother was asleep in one of the rooms, the SHO said. The girl's younger brother woke up from sleep when he heard gunshot shot near the bathroom. He rushed there and found Sonu lying in a pool of blood. He immediately informed the brother-in-law of the deceased youth and the police.
 
 The FSL team on Thursday morning rushed to Faithapur village from Kota and collected samples for examination, the SHO said. Prima facie, it is a clear case of suicide by a jilted lover, the SHO said and added however police is investigating the matter from every possible angle. A case under section 174 of CrPC was presently lodged in the matter and investigation is underway, he added.
 
