KOLHAPUR: The local  ,   busted a gang of six persons, including two minors, on Monday who looted people travelling at night in Kolhapur and   districts.

 Police recovered Rs 3.5 lakh valuables from the accused. A total of 11 cases have been registered against the gang in various police stations in Kolhapur and Sangli districts.
 
 The arrested have been identified as Suraj Sarjerao Dabade (20), a resident of Wathar and Viraj Ganesh Karande (19) from Padali village. Both of them are from Hatkanangle taluka. Omkar Mahesh Suryavanshi (19) and Govind Vasant Mali (19) are residents of Yashwant colony, Kasegaon of Walva taluka in Sangli district. Two minors have also been detained. 
 
 D N Mohite, inspector in-charge of the local crime branch, Kolhapur said, “On March 3, a gang of six persons approached Vijay Hindurao Pethkar and Gajanan Subhash Mohite near Panhala in separate incidents and looted their valuables including cash, a laptop and a motorcycle. The complaints were registered in Panhala and Kodoli police stations. Following the incident, we launched search operation to find the culprits. On March 12, we got information from sources that the gang will be arriving at a hotel at Amrutnagar phata near Kodoli for lunch. We set up a trap and nabbed the six culprits when they reached the hotel.”
 
 The members of the gang confessed to their crimes during the interrogation. “We have recovered valuables worth Rs 3.50 lakh including 11 mobile phones (Rs 24,850), seven motorcycles, 28 gram gold jewellery, 102 gram silver jewellery among other articles from them,” said Mohite.
 
 The gang confessed to committing 19 crimes in the jurisdiction of various police stations in Kolhapur and Sangli districts including Kodoli, Panhala, Shahupuri, Wadgaon, Hatkanangle, Shirala, Kurlup, Kadegaon, Islampur and Sangli city police stations. 
 
 “Of the arrested persons, Dabade, Suryavanshi and Mali are criminals registered on police records. Several cases of house break-in and motorcycle theft have been registered against them individually at Kale, Panhala, Wadgaon, Karveer, Shahuwadi, Karad and Kasegaon police stations,” he said.
 
 The modus operandi of the gang was to ride in a group at night and identify a person travelling on road by motorcycle. 
 
 They then blocked the his path, threatened him with sword and other sharp weapons, searched for valuables and cash on him and later fled from the spot, said the police inspector.
 
 “We are trying to find out if they were involved in other criminal activities other than the ones they have confessed to. We are also trying to recover the valuables they have stolen so far,” he said. 
 
 
