JAIPUR: The state cabinet in a major decision proposed to exclude   and its progenies from the definition of   (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act, 1995.

 State parliamentary affairs minister Rajendra Rathore said, the relaxation was made in tune with the central law which also makes a distinction between cow and buffaloes and excludes it from the list of bovine. This would give a big relief to meat traders from the terror of cow vigilantes, as previously there was no distinction between cow and buffalo in the state Act.
 
 Another two amendments proposed in the Bovine Act give powers to the competent authority to seize the vehicles used for the illegal export of cows, its progenies and also arrest the people engaged in this illegal activity.
 
 “The state cabinet has decided to make some significant amendments in   Bovine Animals (Prohibition of Slaughter and Regulation of Temporary Migration or Export) Act 1995, providing rights to seize vehicles used in the illegal transportation of cow and arrest those responsible. Though the Act makes no mention of word buffalo in its definition bovine, the word ‘bovine’ by itself includes buffaloes in its meaning. So in order to remove the confusion and to bring clarity, the government decided to amend the Act,” said Rathore.
 
 The present Act of 1995 was brought in place of the Rajasthan Preservation of Certain Animals Act 1950 which prohibits killing of cow and its progeny. The objective of the Act said “with growing awareness of non –conventional energy sources like bio-gas the necessity of dung of these bovine species has gained further importance in addition to its utility as manure and as a fuel for the rural population. Such cattle even when they cease to be capable of yielding milk or breeding or working drought cattle can no longer consider as useless.”
 
 “In order to protect and improve the natural environment by minimizing dependence on chemical fertilizers and pesticides and by using natural and soil friendly manure generated by these bovine animals the slaughtering of these animals needs to be strictly prohibited.”
 
 
