NEW DELHI: An easing of tensions between Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and   (TDP) seemed evident after a cordial meeting of the regional party's leaders with finance minister Arun Jaitley on Monday evening after some heated moments in   during the day.

 The meeting lowered temperatures after the government seemed ready to make a statement in Parliament detailing financial assistance provided to  . TDP has alleged that the Centre has failed to deliver on fiscal commitments following the creation of  .
 
 There has been some exasperation in BJP ranks over TDP's disruption of Parliament over "injustice" to Andhra Pradesh since the first half of the  . TDP has not been satisfied with the Centre's statement that it will find ways to support financial demands raised by the state.
 
 Sources said the Centre could give details of assistance provided for the construction of a new capital at Amravati and the Polavaram project to Parliament if the need arose — a move that could bring the confrontation with TDP to a head in the midst of fresh efforts to form a 'third front'. The political churn follows the BJP's success in recent state polls in the north-east.
 
 TDP leaders are insisting that assistance amounting to around Rs 16,000 crore is due to the state and only a part of this has been delivered. They say this a "reduced figure" arrived at after the Modi government assumed office. BJP leaders, however, argue that earlier assistance provided was used to fund welfare schemes and the Centre could not underwrite the bill.
 
 Sources at the Centre said that nearly Rs 12,000 crore had been already released to Andhra Pradesh and the former only needed to provide around Rs 1,500 crore that was committed earlier. The Centre said the state government had little to show by way of progress on the ground. Even on the issue of a new state capital in Amravati, the state government's response was ambivalent.
 
 While ruling out special category state status, citing recommendations from several panels, sources said the Centre had proposed that it could provide funding through externally-aided assistance. Though this was communicated to the   government almost a month ago, the state government was yet to come back with a list of projects.
 
 Similarly, the request for additional support from Nabard was not accepted as it would impact the fiscal calculations but an option of providing funds through a special purpose vehicle has been suggested where the financial institution could chip in. Again, the Andhra government was yet to come back with proposals.
 
 
