ATTARI: Amritsar youth Amarjit Singh, who jumped visa to meet his   ‘friend’ in Pakistan only to be traced a day after the expiry of his visa, was deported via   border on Tuesday. A resident of Niranjanpur village near Amritsar, Amarjit (24) crossed the border with his head covered and a red garland around his neck.

 He also carried a siropa (robe of honour) and a gift hamper given by the Pakistani government. Amarjit was received by his family members and journalists who waited for him for almost nine hours at Attari.
 
 He claimed he had befriended a Sheikhupura resident Ameer Razak during his stay in Malaysia in 2017. However, officials of intelligences agencies, who debriefed Amarjit upon his arrival, said he had met Salma, wife of Razak, through another Pakistani national Shabaz Malik in Malaysia and was in touch with her since September 2017.
 
 While deporting Amarjit, the Pakistani government termed it as a humanitarian gesture as it didn’t initiate any legal proceedings against him for violating the visa norms.
 
 Talking to newspersons, Amarjit said he had gone to meet his friend Razak. He couldn’t reply firmly why he lied about his visa duration. “I didn’t see my passport, it was deposited at Wagah,” he claimed, constantly changing information about the duration of his stay in Pakistan.
 
 Amarjit said he told Razak that he had the visa for one and a half months. Then he said his visa was for 15 days.
 
 He expressed gratitude towards Pakistan and also claimed that he was not forced to issue a statement hailing the Pakistani government before the camera.
 
 Amarjit had gone to Pakistan along with the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) jatha (group of pilgrims) via Attari border on April 12. He didn’t return home along with jatha which arrived in India on April 21.
 
 Razak said he met Amarjit some 10 months ago on Facebook when he was in Malaysia. “When he arrived in Pakistan with the Sikh jatha, he called me up and I invited him to Sheikhupura,” said Razak. He informed that after two-three days of Amarjit’s stay at his house, he was surprised to see news on TV about him having gone missing in Pakistan. Razak said he inquired from Amarjit about his passport and visa.
 
 “I got suspicious and asked him about his passport but Amarjit lied about his visa tenure. He said his passport was deposited at Wagah upon arrival,” he said, adding that he contacted the management of Gurdwara Dera Sahib and informed about the stay of Amarjit.
 
 The intelligence report suggests that Amarjit went to meet Salma at Sheikhupura on April 16, four days after his arrival in Pakistan and stayed in her house till April 23.
 
 An Indian woman Kiran Bala, a resident of Garhshankar in Hoshiarpur district, had also gone to Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi along with the SGPC-led Sikh jatha. She had embraced Islam on April 16 and later married a Lahore resident.
 
 Earlier before crossing over to India, Amarjit was seen with his head covered and holding a placard with “Thank you Pakistan” written in English, Hindi, Urdu and Punjabi. He was flanked by Pakistan’s Evacuee Trust Property Board deputy secretary Imran Gondal and sewadars of Gurdwara Dera Sahib.
 
 In a video clip believed to be recorded before his release by the Pakistan Rangers, one of the persons is heard prompting Amarjit to express thanks to Pakistan for his release.
 
 
