Aurangabad: Citizen groups in the city have started campaigning and promoting the use of alternatives to plastic.

 Meanwhile, even though the Maharashtra cabinet approved the ban on plastic last week, contradictory to the environment minister's statement the notification on the ban was not issued on Sunday. Officials were reported as saying that the notification will be issued this week.
 
 Maheshwari Mandal, AMC staff, children from various schools and Bhagwani Balika Ashram Beed Bypass, polytechnic students and the Civic Response Team (CRT) continued their campaign against plastic bags at the weekly market on Dargah Road. Local corporators Smita Ghogre and Shilpa Wadkar have also been lending their help for the campaign.
 
 Rajesh Mandhani of Maheshwari Mandal said that their campaign has achieved a success of 80-90%.
 
 Mandhani said, “Activists of all ages visit each vegetable and fruit vendor at the market and convince the seller to say no to plastic carry bags. The remaining few vendors who continue to use plastic are fruit vendors. We hope to convince them in the coming days.”
 
 Campaigner Rajshri Malani sais, “Customers are also explained the ill effects of using plastic bags. We tell them about how they can contribute to waste management by refusing plastic carry bags. Reduction is essential to solid waste management.”
 
 However, the decision to ban plastic by the state cabinet hasn’t made a significant difference. The activists say that merely making a rule does not suffice, there should be stress on implementation as well.
 
 Monday saw activists distributing banners to vendors. Many of them willingly put up the banners at their shops. Other members deputed themselves at the exit and entry points trying to convince consumers to give up plastic bags and switch to cloth and paper bags.
 
 Another campaigner from Maheshwari Mandal Rekha Mundada said that the group wants to make the campaign successful in Dargah Market so that the model can be used as a reference in other weekly markets across the city.
 
 
