LUCKNOW: DIG prisons has sought reply from the superintendent of Lucknow jail following reports that GST commissioner  , lodged there after being arrested by the CBI, is being given VIP treatment. "Some newspaper reports said that the jailed GST commissioner was given lavish food from the canteen unlike other prisoners and was also lodged in quarantine cell," said DIG prisons VK Jain. "I have sought a reply from the jail superintendent within two days," he added. 

  Jain, however, clarified that any person can avail food from the canteen by depositing Rs 600 per week as per jail manuals. He also said that it was the discretion of the superintendent to lodge a prisoner in any barrack, there are many challenges like an officer cannot be put in the same barrack with a hard-core criminal.
 
 The officer also added that technically quarantine barrack is one in which new prisoners are lodged in order to make them get acclimatised with the environment of the prisons. "Medical check-up of the prisoners is performed here and in case they have a   history of communicable diseases then they are observed here," added Jain. The Lucknow quarantine barrack is very big so it is not always used for new prisoners but old ones can also be allowed into it.
 
 Superintendent of Prisons (Lucknow) PK   said that reports of GST commissioner being given VIP treatment. "I will take legal action against those who have published it," he told TOI.
 
 On February 3, the CBI arrested   commissioner Sansar  , posted in Kanpur, along with eight others in an alleged bribery case. Chand is a 1986 batch IRS (Indian Revenue Service) officer. The agency made the arrests after agency received several complaints of bribery against the IRS officer and his three junior staff besides five private individuals. On Feb 16, the CBI had got the judicial custody from a special court and got them lodged in Lucknow Jail. A few days later, some papers carried a report that they were given VIP treatment in jail. 
 
 
