NAGPUR: After the news about black panther in Tadoba, Vidarbha region has recorded first-ever spot bellied eagle owl. The pair of birds was sighted in   range of   under Pench Tiger Reserve, Maharashtra.

 
 
 Well-known bird expert Raju Kasambe from Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) confirmed there is no earlier record of the bird from Vidarbha. “It has been earlier recorded in Pench (MP), Kanha, Balaghat, Koyna and Bhimashankar sanctuaries in Western Maharashtra and Chorle Ghat (Maharashtra-Goa border),” said Kasambe.
 
 Kapish S Rai, city birder and wildlife photographer, sighted the bird pair on May 20, around 6pm during an evening safari at Saleghat. “I spent last 12 days to get confirmation from bird experts and watchers,” he told TOI.
 
 Veteran bird expert Gopal Thosar said, “I don’t recall of having record of this bird species here. Saleghat has beautiful ravines and much of the area is still unexplored. It is good indication and a formal study needs to be undertaken on bird species in the area.”
 
 Another bird expert Nitin Marathe said he has never heard about the spot bellied eagle owl sighting, though 15 days ago he sighted an Egyptian vulture in Saleghat.
 
 “It is a rare sighting as the owl species is mostly found in the south and parts of  . The bird sighted is a juvenile, which indicates breeding of the species here,” says avid bird watcher Pushkar Kulkarni.
 
 Rai recalled he saw two owls in flight and mistook them to be Indian eagle owls. “Later, I posted the pictures on various birding groups including ‘Birds of Vidarbha’ where experts identified the bird as spot bellied eagle owl,” said Rai.
 
 Rai said the spot bellied eagle owl is a large owl species and is 50-65cm long. It is the sixth tallest owl in the world.
 
 Kasambe said this owl species is mostly nocturnal and very shy. There is record of the birds in Madhya Pradesh, Himalayas and South, but it has now extended to Vidarbha, which is a good indication.
 
 “The bird is rarely sighted as it camouflages with nature. However, in advent of increasing number of bird watchers and enthusiast going to forest with good quality cameras, it has been possible to record even rare species,” says Kasambe.
 
 
