GURGAON: The   has issued notices to three prominent private hospitals —  ,   and   — in Gurgaon, giving them 72 hours to furnish details of treatment given to patients from the below poverty line (BPL) and the economically weaker section (EWS).

 The Huda action follows allegations that these hospitals were not providing treatment to poor patients as per the conditions agreed upon at the time of land allotment in 2008. 
 
 Sources said the development authority had given plots to Medanta in Sector 38, Fortis in Sector 44 and Artemis in Sector 51 at subsidised rates on the condition, among others, that they would reserve 20% of the beds for the poor. Also, as per the condition, these hospitals are expected to provide free treatment to poor patients.
 
 “The three hospitals were issued notices (on Thursday), asking them to represent their case within 72 hours and explain reasons for attending lesser numbers of domicile patients than what is mandated in the Huda policy,” said Huda estate officer-II Vivek Kalia.
 
 He said once the hospital authorities submitted the required details and explained their position, the matter would be forwarded to the monitoring committee for further action.
 
 After the controversy over the death of seven-year-old dengue patient Adya Singh and allegation of irregularities and medical negligence against Fortis Hospital, the state director-general of health services had last month recommended cancellation of land allotment to Fortis. Huda was asked to reclaim the land as per the rules and file action taken report.
 
 Acting on the health director-general’s directive, Huda’s monitoring committee held a meeting on January 4 to review the implementation of terms and conditions of the land allotment in consonance with the Huda policy dated August 2008.
 
 While examining regular records/reports of BPL/EWS patients attended to by Fortis as well as the other two private hospitals, the estate office-II found that most of those poor patients were from outside Haryana and non-domicile of Haryana. Besides, the number of those patients was less than what the hospitals were expected to attend to.
 
 When contacted, representatives of Medanta, Fortis and Artemis claimed that they had not been receiving enough referral cases of BPL/EWS patients from the district administration. Besides, poor patients were apparently apprehensive about visiting these super-speciality hospitals.
 
 In a similar case of   vs Haryana’s health director, the Punjab and Haryana High Court had asked Huda to apprise the court if BPL and EWS patients were getting medial aid from private hospitals.
 
 “Huda submitted names of some of the patients before the court in a sealed envelope. On last hearing on December 15, the HC directed Huda to verify the names of those patients provided by the hospitals and check whether they actually belonged to BPL or EWS category,” said Takyar, who had filed the petition. He added that the HC had also asked Huda to appoint an administrator at each hospital to ensure that genuine patients received the benefits.
 
 
