SHIMLA: The  , Pune, said on Friday that bats found dead in  ,  , were not carrying the deadly Nipah virus, coming as a relief for locals after there was a scare in the region of the virus breaking out in the hill state. 

 The institute said the bats died of another reason. The samples were sent to Pune by air on Thursday and tests conducted on Friday.
 
 Sirmaur deputy commissioner Lalit Jain said that National Institute of Virology had conducted laboratory tests of samples of dead bats have found that they were not carrying Nipah virus. “There is no need for people to panic now,” he added. 
 
 Jain, on Day 1, had ruled out the presence of Nipah virus, saying about a dozen bats had died in the area even though thousands of them lived there. 
 
 According to sources, samples sent from Burma Papri were taken to Pune personally by an official from Sirmaur and were kept at high-security microbial laboratory there. “We wanted the tests to be conducted at the earliest to dispel the fear of Nipah virus. I was constantly in touch with the Pune laboratory authorities. They confirmed that the bats were not carrying the deadly virus at evening,” he added.
 
 Earlier, the deaths of three bats in Kuthed, Una district, and a bat in Sundernagar, Mandi district, aggravated the panic.
 
 In Sirmaur, the bats were found dead under a tree near Government Senior Secondary School, Burma Papri, after which school authorities informed the district administration. The director of health, Dr  , had on Thursday issued an advisory to all chief medical officers, senior medical superintendents of regional hospitals and zonal hospitals, and the principals of medical colleges in Shimla, Tanda, Nahan, Ner Chowk, Hamirpur and Chamba, to exercise precaution.
 
 It was made clear in the advisory that all suspected cases should be strictly monitored by medical officers health or block medical officers or medical officers. He has directed the district health officers Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) to report on daily basis in the prescribed format to the office of state surveillance officer, IDSP.
 
 
