CHANDIGARH:   is an atypical 19-year-old college girl, whose role model is Muhammad Ali, punching speed is like lightning, and dream is  . Every evening at 5, she attends the free coaching clinic of Punjab constable Joginder Singh at Bougainvillea Garden, which is surrounded by the elite Chandigarh Club, chief minister’s residence, and the Vidhan Sabha. This is Sector 3, a snooty neighbourhood where her mother is domestic help from servant quarters.

 On a February evening, Gaganjot is working on her punches and footwork at the park, while another 15 boxers—almost all from underprivileged families and aged 6 to 18—warm up about 50
 
 metres away. There’s still a nip in the air but this wellbuilt girl from DAV College, Sector 10, has sweat running down her forehead. “She is a hardworking girl,” Joginder breaks the silence. “When she joined me four years ago, she was all of 32 kilograms and so frail that people advised her against boxing. But she is stubborn.”
 
 “She was forbidden from competing until she improved her diet and strength,” says the coach. In October 2017, the hard work paid off and Gaganjot won a pro-boxing tournament in Jalandhar and then an inter-college meet of Panjab University.
 
 Mohan Thapa (14) started training under Joginder eight months ago. The boy from Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 10, won the gold medal at the UT sub-junior championship last year, four months after taking to boxing. The coach calls him a “natural”. The boy has hearing disability.
 
 Mohan’s parents are also domestic servants in Sector 3 and putting up in a similar accommodation as Gaganjot’s family. Standing a few inches above 5 feet, Mohan makes up for the modest height by his stamina and strength. “I want him to join the Sports Authority of India (SAI) hostel for his better diet,” says Joginder. Mohan’s favourite boxer is Mike Tyson and he picked up the sport by watching Haryana pugilist Vijender Singh’s rise to fame on television.
 
 Mohan is hard of hearing in the right ear and Joginder worries that it might affect his performance a bit sometime later. “There is no rule that disqualifies him from competing,” the coach says.
 
 Nearly 30 youngsters train under the intelligence wing cop, who managed to get the ground with the help of his department about five years ago. “I ran this free clinic at a school in   before,” he says. His trainees have won prestigious competitions and progressed to hostels of the SAI, National Institute of Sports (NIS), and Punjab Institute of Sports. “Kuldeep, Komal, Meenakshi, Rituz, Simran, Aryan, Sahil, Shubham, Srikant, and Ashish were the brightest of them,” says Joginder. “I expect them to do well, because these children have come through a lot of struggle.”
 
 Nitish (13), who lives with his parents in Nayagaon and goes to school there, is Joginder’s trainee for two years. “I was playing badminton with my sister in the park when Sir asked us if we wanted to learn how to box. We started training the next day,” he says. Joginder has great expectations from him. “He is lanky but can land a hard punch,” the coach says. “He just needs to put in some hard work. I keep suggesting the Nayagaon students to join the schools in Chandigarh, where at least they get the UT scholarships for athletes. That way they can at least afford a kit.”
 
