UDAIPUR: A sex video of a foreigner couple, reportedly shot on the terrace of Udaipur's   police station, has left the department completely red-faced. The couple is seen in a compromising position in the video, which went viral on Friday. 

 The video is believed to be shot from a building across the road. Police said the video could have been shot sometime around  . The police, though officially on a denial mode, have initiated an inquiry into the matter.
 
 Udaipur SP Rajendra Prasad Goyal, who initially insisted that "there was nothing to investigate", later claimed that one had access to the terrace through a temple located next to the police station. "Such videos on social media lack authenticity. How can one claim with certainty that the terrace seen in the video is of Ghantaghar police station? Secondly, the man and woman in the video are foreigners. Kissing or holding each other is quite common in their culture, so we cannot book them for such act," Goyal told TOI.
 
 The officer claimed such sights "are common", specially inside the walled city area which sees a large footfall of foreign tourists and therefore police cannot prevent them. "None of our men are seen in the footage, nor did any policeman shoot the video. In such a situation, how can any action be taken against anyone? The video is not clear... the couple cannot be identified," Goyal said. However, he also added, "Someone may have climbed up through the stairs of a temple, situated in the same premises, adjoining the station and landed on the terrace."
 
 Police officials maintained that several people visit the temple, which is adjacent to the police station, located in a densely populated area. "The incident could have taken place around Holi, when foreigners are often seen roaming around in intoxicated condition. The video has been shot is broad day light and we believed that one of the daily wagers, living in the area, must have shot it. The matter is being looked into," admitted a senior cop.
 
 Sources confirmed that cops are investigating the matter internally and the temple priest has interrogated on Friday. They claim that there are little doubts about the location.
 
 
