GURUGRAM: A youth climbed a 40-foot-tall tree and sat on one of the uppermost and farthest branches, playing ‘catch me if you can’ with local residents,   and   for around three hours in   around noon on Friday.

 It took a rescue team of 25-odd men, equipped with two fire tenders, ladders and a hydraulic lift, around two hours to negotiate power lines, chop off tree branches hindering the operation and bring down the 19-year-old safely.
 
 Residents claimed they first spotted a barely clothed youth sitting on a thin branch atop the tree around 11.30am. The tree, some residents claimed it to be a semal or cotton tree, was located in a small park beside   colony. They warned him that he would fall and hurt himself and might even die, but he refused to come down. 
 
 “It is an extremely weak tree. The man went towards the end and sat on one of the very thin branches. We were scared that it would break and he would fall,” said Ashwini Sharma, the councillor of the ward No.19 which also includes Sector 15-II. 
 
 Soon, around hundred people gathered near the tree and a police team arrived at the spot and tried to reason with him but in vain.
 
 The cops then informed the fire department, which sent two fire tenders to the spot. But the ladders on the fire tenders could not reach the branch where the youth was sitting. Finally, a hydraulic lift was brought in to bring him down.
 
 “We got the information around noon. After assessing the situation, a team of 22 firefighters were called in for the rescue operation, which involved cutting branches of trees around, to make space for the hydraulic lift. Some electric wires also came in the way, which made the task even more difficult. We had to make sure that the man didn’t fall off or get electrocuted,” said Pankaj Parashar, the fire safety officer from Bhim Nagar fire station.
 
 The operation continued for more than two hours, after which the youth was brought down and handed over to the police. Preliminary probe revealed that the youth, originally from Bihar, had been living in Gurugram for the past two years and had been doing odd jobs. Recently, he started working as a servant in a house in the area.
 
 Police said during interrogation, he didn’t say much and got scared every time cops started speaking to him. “It appears he is slightly  . We are trying to contact his father, who works in Amritsar, and hand him over,” said SI Madan, additional SHO, Civil Lines police station.
 
 
