NAGPUR: Just seven years after it was completed, the railway station flyover is set to go. Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) has cleared its demolition. The 175 shops situated beneath the flyover would be shifted as would be the MP and MSRTC bus stands located between Railway Station and   square as part of a grand plan to ease traffic congestion around Railway Station, Tekdi Ganesh temple, and Kingsway.

 Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal and MD of MahaMetro Brijesh Dixit confirmed decision has been taken to demolish the flyover. Union minister and city MP Nitin Gadkari had suggested its demolition.
 
 A senior NMC official said, “General body had decided to study the utility of flyover in June last year. Accordingly, NMC inspected the traffic along with officials of Territorial Army 118 Battalion, Central Railway (CR), South-Eastern Central Railway (SECR) and traffic police in July. NMC also asked Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) to conduct a study and give a plan to regulate traffic in the entire area. VNIT said it could be done only after completion of Ramjhula phase-II,” he said.
 
 TOI on Monday had reported that Gadkari had asked MahaMetro to plan traffic movement and develop the entire area. Dixit said a development plan of the entire area between Manas square and Jaistambh square and Ramjhula and Kasturchand Park would be made. “MahaMetro has started the study and will be submitting the report to Gadkari. It will cover various angles like shifting of MP and MSRTC bus stands, road and pedestrian way in front of Railway station, proper development of Jaistambh square etc. A decision to rehabilitate shops beneath the flyover will be taken. Flyover will be demolished only after completion of the plan,” he said.
 
 Following Gadkari’s suggestion and demand from NGO  , former mayor and   corporator Praveen Datke had tabled the proposal in the general body for demolition of flyover in June last year. Datke said shops under the flyover will be rehabilitated in the 21-storey multipurpose mall proposed on the land where santra, khoa and paan markets are situated towards East of railway station. “Report of detailed study will be submitted before general body for final decision,” he said.
 
 Ravi Kaskhedikar of Jan Aakrosh welcomed NMC’s decision. “We were the first to study the traffic congestion in the area and demand flyover’s demolition. Everyone, including shopkeepers, should get proper justice before work is started,” he said.
 
  activist TH Naidu said action should be taken against the officials who decided to build the flyover. “NMC built it without proper study causing loss of taxpayers money. Restaurants, wine shops etc were permitted to come up under itcausing severe traffic congestion and other problems. Responsibility should be fixed on the officials and cost of flyover should be recovered from them,” he said.
 
 Following Gadkari’s suggestion, MahaMetro razed the flyover Chhatrapati square flyover two years ago. Flyover in front of railway station will be the second to go.
 
 
