KOLKATA: A fracas at   on Saturday morning between cops and an appcab driver turned into a fullfledged scuffle, with locals siding with the driver and jostling with cops. The Charu Market police have detained two persons and have begun legal proceedings against them.

 While the app-cab driver alleged that he was beaten up by a constable who did not allow him to park near the crossing, police said the driver had hit an auto first, and when cops came to enquire he acted as if he had been slapped by the police. The cops further claimed that the app cabbie’s actions instigated some local youths who then allegedly attacked the cops on duty. The traffic police claimed they had video footage of the entire incident.
 
 According to locals and traffic police sources, around 11.50am traffic constable Mujibar Rahaman and another cop from   traffic guard were on duty at the   and   crossing. Mujibar saw a cab moving towards   collide with an auto barely 50m from the crossing. The auto driver protested and the two got into a heated exchange in the middle of the road.
 
 Mujibar went up to the spot where a major traffic snarl had begun to form. It was at this moment that the cabby suddenly threw himself on the road and claimed he had been punched by the cop. Four local youths — Raju Rajbhar, Manas Kumar Dey, Abhijit Das and Kalakar Raut — rebuked the cops, which led to a scuffle, claimed sources.
 
 Mujibar received injuries in his left hand and had to be taken to a private hospital OPD for treatment. A case of obstructing a public servant has been registered at the police station. The traffic cops slapped Section 184 of the Motor Vehicles Act against the cabby and arrested Rajbhar and Dey. Das and Raut are are still absconding.
 
 The locals, however, claimed that the constable had not even spoken to the cabby but had hit him for obstructing traffic. This was why the locals reacted and protested against “police high-handedness”. Charu Market police have hinted they will carry out more arrests in the next 48 hours.
 
