BHOPAL:Pens, pencils and a pretty pink pouch lay smeared in blood. Next to them was a rumpled woollen cap... Grisly signs of a morning tragedy in Bhopal that snatched a little child's life. 

 A man on his way to show off his newly bought car rammed into two 11-year-old girls waiting for their school bus in Bairagarh early Thursday morning, killing one of them and seriously injuring the other. The driver, local trader  , has a valid licence - issued seven years ago - but claims he began driving only a month ago, say police. 
 
 Devani claims he is a novice driver but that didn't stop him from driving to a friend to show off his i10, bought a month ago. Devani has told police that he accidentally stepped on the accelerator instead of the brake pedal after the car hit a pothole. The car shot out of a lane and hit   and  , who had no chance to react. The car crushed Garima, killing her on the spot. Stuti suffered severe leg injuries. Local residents grabbed Devani and beat him up and vandalized his car before handing him to police. Garima lived in Kailash Nagar and her father Anil Kumar Shivdasani is an accountant and a government contractor. Stuti lives just a few doors away. The two are close friends and travelled by the same bus to  . Thursday morning began no different - only that it was chilly. Locals saw the two kids standing at their usual spot near a restaurant - barely 100m from their home. 
 
 
 
 
 A nil’s uncle Kishore Shivdasani told TOI: “Around 9am Garima left home to go to school. She and Stuti were standing beside the road. As soon as they saw the bus approaching, they moved few steps. At the same time, the car came speeding, and rammed into the children.” Both kids were taken to hospital where Garima was declared dead on arrival and Stuti was treated.
 
 Devani, 39, also lives in Kailash Nagar and runs an electronics and general items store at Chanchal Chouraha in Bairagarh. He told police that he purchased the second-hand i10 a month ago and was going to a friend’s house to show him the car. As he took a turn, he told police, his car bumped on a pothole and he accidentally pressed the accelerator instead of the brake.
 
 Bairagarh SHO Sudhir Arjaria said Devani has been charged with negligent driving and causing death by negligence. Police said his driver’s licence was issued in 2010, which means he ought to have passed the requisite tests back then. 
 
 
