PATIALA: The Mohali-based special   court of  , which is also the designated court to hear cases under the Prevention of the Money Laundering Act (PMLA) 2002, on Saturday forwarded the ‘letter of request’ to the Union government for seeking details of properties owned by 18 accused in Punjab’s multi-crore   racket in   and UK.

 In August 2017, the   (ED) had moved the ‘letter of request’ in the court under Section 57 of the PMLA, seeking details of properties owned by the accused in Canada and UK. Deciding on the application, the court on Saturday forwarded letter to the Union ministry of external affairs to open diplomatic channels and ask Canada and UK to collect all property details of the accused and furnish the same to the government.
 
 ED deputy director   said during investigations they had found that some of the accused in the drug racket parked huge amount of money in the properties in UK and Canada. The ED suspects that money that had been used to buy these properties was the ‘proceeds of the crime’ committed by wrestler-turned-cop-turned-drug lord Jagdish Singh Bhola and his associates.
 
 ED special public prosecutor Jagjitpal Singh Sarao said it was for the first time that such a request had been moved in the court, which was possible only under the PMLA. He said according to investigations carried out by the ED, money generated from drug trade had been parked invariably in immovable and moveable assets both within the country and abroad.
 
 While the properties within the country could be verified by the ED, help had to be taken by the authorities of UK and Canada to cross verify the properties that were bought in these two countries. 
 
 In the ‘letter of request,’ the ED had provided a list of the persons who are suspected of having bought properties in Canada and UK from the proceeds of the crime. ED had also put before the court a list of properties, both movable and immovable, which the accused had made within the country and abroad.
 
 The accused include  , his wife Ranjit Kaur, Manpreet Singh, Daljeet Singh, Sukhraj Singh Kang, Lehmbar Singh, Ranjit Singh, Amarjit Singh Koonar, Tony Parmod Sharma, Satpreet Singh, Pradip Singh Dhaliwal, Davinder Singh Narwal, Harmohinder Singh, Madan Lal, Kulwant Singh, Parminder Singh and Roy Bahadur.
 
 
