Chandigarh: UT police have bought 11   for Rs 1.36 lakh each to keep an eye on goings-on at traffic  , said SSP (traffic) Shashank Anand here on Tuesday. 

 The traffic wing of Chandigarh Police unveiled the cameras, bought for a total of Rs 15 lakh, at an event organised as part of Road Safety Week here. UT administrator V P Singh Badnore launched the system, which the police force dubbed as ‘Divya Drishti’, or divine sight.
 
 The SSP said all happenings at traffic nakas would be beamed live from these cameras to the mobile phones of senior police officials. He added that four such cameras would be installed at every naka, so that all interactions between motorists and   could be covered. “Two cameras will cover the barricades at the back and two at the front. The cameras would have a feature for automatically noting down the registration number of vehicles. The new project will give a 360° view of the naka,” he said.
 
 The SSP said they had decided to buy the system as they had been receiving complaints of either cops misbehaving with motorists or vice-versa. “Also, the system will help us ensure that no will able to keep on malpractices at nakas,” he said.
 
 The project was first proposed in 2016, and the police force zeroed-in on the equipment it hads bought after several demonstrations, said an officer in Chandigarh Police who did not wish to be named. “We procured the cameras only after we were satisfied with the performance of these ones,” said the oficer.
 
 BOXES
 
 Badnore praises SSP, city police
 
 UT SSP Nilambari Vijay Jagdale was in for praise from the UT administrator, V P Singh Badnore, here on Tuesday. Badnore also lauded the work done by Chandigarh Police, saying that it showed what it is made of by cracking the auto-rickshaw gang-rape in Sector 53 and thefts at city temples.
 
 Now, app for towed vehicles
 
 UT administrator V P Singh Badnore also launched a towed-vehicle smartphone app at the event. With this app, a resident can get information if his/her vehicle has been towed away from a no-parking zone. Residents have to download the app from Google Playstore, and type the registration number of their vehicle and select search. In a few seconds, the user will get the information of the vehicle, and about the fine and the procedure to get it released.
 
 
