CHENNAI: While travelling in a train, if a co-passenger suffers a stroke or heart attack, a doctor may not be on call but the next best option — life-saving drugs — will be close at hand as Railway Protection Force ( ) personnel are stocking up kits containing three medicines which will prolong the golden hour after a heart attack.

 The initiative, a brainchild of Chennai’s Senior Divisional Security Commissioner Louis Amuthan, was inaugurated by Chairman Railway Board (CRB) Ashwani Lohani at Chennai Central on Saturday. 
 
 “Nearly 2,000 kits containing three medicines — Isordil, Clopildogrel and Atorvastatin — will be issued to RPF personnel and it will be part of their uniform. We have put up banners at prominent stations informing the public regarding this,” said Amuthan, who carries these tablets in his car and purse.
 
 RPF personnel on the ground, regularly come across cases where a patient on a moving train dies because there is no way of giving immediate medical care. 
 
 “For instance, if a passenger boards a train from Chennai Central and suffers an attack near Avadi, even if the emergency chain is pulled, transporting him to a nearby hospital may not be easy. Giving the tablet will prolong the golden hour and by the time the train reaches a bigger junction like Arakkonam, a medical team can be ready with an ambulance,” an RPF official explained.
 
 Passengers have complained for a long time that medical care at intermediate, especially smaller suburban stations, is not provided. 
 
  is unable to provide that as it would mean a considerable investment that is not commensurate to the earnings from the station. 
 
 An emergency medical facility is provided at major stations like Central and Egmore. 
 
 Apart from inaugurating this initiative, Lohani also inspected   and Basin Bridge. 
 
 At Central, he was informed about the new elevator, pay and use toilets, newly launched Jan Aahar, new cafe and an upcoming food plaza by IRCTC. 
 
 Later in the day, Lohani had review meetings discussing the performance of  . He met with representatives of recognised trade unions and various staff associations and officers. In accordance with his tradition of inaugurating staff welfare-related amenities, the newly constructed staff canteen and women’s restroom at Basin Bridge yard was also inaugurated by Lohani.
 
 
