By Geetanjali Dhalia
 
During a visit to Sectors 9, 10, 19, 20, 21, 27, 28, and 30 here on Wednesday, a TOI team found that these red tracks ended abruptly on turns and crossings, due to which the cyclists were clueless why they were getting caught in accidents. On some of these tracks, there is no street light, and on a few other paths, the bulbs are covered with dense canopies of trees. The garbage littered all over the surface discourages the cyclists from using these tracks, and forces them to take the main roads.
 
 On the dividing road of Sector 27 and 28, the public health department has dug up a bicycle track for laying a pipeline. It has been more than two months that the work is unfinished, so cyclists avoid this track. Sector-27 welfare association general secretary   said: "The residents have pointed out mismanagement of the bicycle tracks repeatedly, because their commute has slowed down.
 
 The contractor concerned has demolished the track along the boundary of   (CSIO) in Sector 30. The spot faces the road dividing Sector 29 and 30. A commuter said: "During the rainy days, it is risky to use the track. A heap of accumulated garbage is dumped on the bicycle track near the dividing road of Sector 20 and 21. The MC may have laid the tracks but it has ignored the cleanliness aspect." Filth is a big hurdle for cyclists. The track turning towards Sector 9 on the Madhya Marg is plugged with mud.
 
 The track on the dividing road of Sector 9 and 4 is under dense canopies that have blocked street light. It's difficult to bicycle through this stretch at night. The riders are vulnerable to encounters with thieves and robbers. The bicycle tracks near the   are not even marked clearly.   president   said: "Auto-rickshaws have occupied the tracks opposite the Rock Garden and there drivers also use these paths as shortcuts. It seems the tracks were laid in a haste, since they left open manholes and trees in the middle of many paths. The surface needs urgent repair."
 
 TOI heard many complaints regarding the quality of infrastructure of these bicycle tracks.   founder Gurjinder Mogi, who runs a voluntary mission to encourage cycling, said: "The bicycle tracks lack proper planning and their layout is poor. The paths aren't continuous but in patches on the roadside. Also, these tracks are connected to the main road, which increases the chances of accidents.
 
 
