HYDERABAD: Hope of the Telangana tableau appearing during the Republic Day Parade this year is fast fading, with officials not receiving any communication from Delhi regarding clearance of the exhibit. 

 With just 18 days left for the preparation of tableau, the   government has not received any official communication from the tableau committee in Delhi regarding the exhibit by the youngest State.
 
 Ever since the proposal was received in October to participate in R-Day celebrations, the State government started putting in a serious effort into the selection of a theme. This year, officials chose 'Sammmakka-Saralakka', popularly known as the 'Medaram Jathra', as the theme.   is the world's largest tribal festival celebrated in February once every two years. 
 
 In its bid to promote local culture, the state government also tried to get the ' ' declared as a national festival. Recently, a delegation led by endowments minister A Indrakaran Reddy met the Union tribal affairs minister   and made a plea regarding this. A positive response was received. By month-end, the Centre may likely declare   a national festival. 
 
 "The tableau committee led by   secretary had agreed to the theme, and based on their suggestions, we too made certain modifications. But till date, we have not received any official communication regarding preparation of the tableau," a source from the information and public relations (I&PR) department told TOI. "We selected two other themes as well, including Mission Bhagiratha - Telangana government's flagship programme to provide safe drinking water - and  ," the source said. 
 
 Speaking about the reason for the consideration of Mission Bhagiratha theme, sources said that Prime Minister   inaugurated it in August 2016. The Kakatiya Dynasty theme is also being promoted by the state, with the arch representing the dynasty being used in the five-day 'World Telugu Conference'. 
 
 Officials here say there is almost no chance of the tableau getting ready in time even if the state is given a go-ahead. At least a month is needed for preparations, said sources. 
 
 Speaking about the matter, a senior bureaucrat said the reasons for the screening committee not yet choosing the state tableau is not yet known, but it is unfortunate and shows a lack of encouragement for the newly-formed state. 
 
 
