A rainbow of hope shone across the nation as the   of India decided to reconsider its constitutional validity of 
 Section 377. Earlier this week, Chief Justice of India, Dipak Sharma expressed support to members of the community stating that no individual should live in a state of fear over their personal choice. The gesture has made activists’ voices stronger everywhere.
 
  
 
 
 
 But even before the Supreme Court decided to reconsider its former stand on Section 377,   took its first steps towards gay rights in May 2017, with the city’s first Pride week opening dialogues on homosexuality, transgenders and gender equality. Taking this dialogue further, a youth group recently initiated a series of art collective, in collaboration with Delhi-based Phia Foundation. The first of its events, Ansuni, saw a curated group of young poets, storytellers and musicians expressing themselves through lyrical compositions that challenged preconceived or stereotypical notions. Through music, words and strong voices, the closeted young poets tried to build a climate of change that resonated with the nationwide campaign ‘It’s Possible’ that came to Bhopal through the Phia Foundation. Launched by   in June 2017 at Ranchi, It’s Possible attempts to bridge the gap between gender binaries. It has impacted 10 states by joining hands with youth organisations and societies. 
  For organiser  , arranging the pride march with participants streaming in from all over the country was much easier than the art collective. But the audience and performers at Ansuni stunned the organisers by showing up in large numbers and packing the venue – a co-working café – to the brim. “The fact that the venue was packed means that the topic still remains one of the most critical issues to address through dialogue and art,” Kokila says.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 One of the participants, 19-year-old Shivani Agarwal, who is in the city for summer break from her college in New Zealand, reiterated the need for addressing the gender conundrum with discourse, voices and efforts, so that the debate gets a better direction, “I’d written the poem last year when a massive women’s march had been initiated in Auckland as Trump assumed office. The Ansuni dialogue struck the anvil at the right time and I could express my views on gender equality.” Similarly,  , a mental health activist, chose to narrate the insensitivity of the human race in categorising fellow humans into gender defined compartments, “I decided to voice the futility of stereotypes like ‘boys don’t cry’, ‘girls can’t do well as bosses’, ‘guys can’t wear fluorescent pants’, etc. I just want to say, to each his own.”
 
 
 The audience were moved. One could tell by the undivided attention each participant received during their performances. “Like they say, boondh boondh se ghada bharta hai, every action of awareness counts. It is wonderful to see young men and women have an acute observation of the issues around them and see them take up arms through words to fight,” observed Hemant Arora, a middle aged banker who attended the event. After the first event in the series, open mics and photography exhibitions on a similar theme will follow, creating more ripples across the city. Surely this is a progress, Bhopal.
 
 
  
 
 
  Along with the series of art collective, a theatre workshop will eventually showcase a Nukkad Natak depicting how discrimination arises on the basis of language, freedom of choice, honour, division of work in households and parenting. Pragyan Mohanty an activist with the It’s Possible campaign, who undertook the workshop, shares, “This was primarily a gender sensitisation workshop where participants underwent exercises to build a perspective on the issues and become more sensitive towards them.” The group of young theatre enthusiasts, who attended the three-day workshop, will present their final street play in prominent public places of the city between January 19-26.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  Pics credit: Varun Namdev, Satish Acharya
  
 
