 written update, March 28th, 2018: Prithvi and Preeta’s engagement date gets fixed

 
 The latest episode of Kundali Bhagya begins with   getting confused about Karan’s behavior.   says he attempted to save Preeta’s respect and would always protect her whenever her character is questioned. Rakhi doesn't understand why Karan wants Preeta and Prithvi's marriage to be called off but   seconds Karan. They send Rakhi to sleep and promise to talk about it the next day.
 
 
 Prithvi gets furious as he had to apologize to  . He wonders if Karan has fallen for Preetha. Sherlyn calms Prithvi down and says that he should focus on his engagement and that she must marry Rishabh to seek revenge for Prithvi. Prithvi says it’s important for him to know what’s going in Karan’s mind. He says he will do something big that will shock everyone. He doesn’t even share his plan with Sherlyn.
 
 
 Early next morning, Sarla gets a call from Rakhi. She says she wanted to share her heart out with her. Rakhi says that she feels Karan and Rishabh are tensed over Preeta's marriage and have a wrong attitude towards Prithvi. Sarla asks Rakhi for a suggestion and she suggests to organize a get-together so that all of them can meet somewhere. Sarla agrees. Srishti comes and informs Sarla of Prithvi and his parents' arrival at their house. After the call, Sarla tells Srishti to take care of cooking. Preeta comes to scold Srishti for never helping in the kitchen. Sarla greets Prithvi and his mother. Prithvi tells Sarla that he was scolded by his mother for what happened the previous day regarding Karan, Preeta and him and promises it will never happen again. Prithvi’s mother apologizes to Sarla and promises to treat Preeta as her daughter. The priest arrives then. Prithvi says his mother called him as they wanted to fix the date of the engagement. Sarla goes to get the birth chart while Preeta serves tea to everyone. Prithvi holds Preeta’s hand and says they will soon get engaged, making Preeta nervous.
 
 
 At the Luthra house, Sameer thinks about Srishti talking about a misunderstanding. He goes to Karan’s room and helps him with his workout and asks him if Srishti had told him who she was in love with. Karan says she took Sameer’s name. The latter teases Karan by Preeta’s name. He denies liking Srishti and says that she loves him.
 
 
 Sarla looks for the birth chart in Janki’s room. Janki tries to speak when Sarla tells her about Prithvi and his mother fixing the engagement date. Sarla asks if Janki wanted to share something.
 
