MUMBAI: Despite getting a second chance from the   ( ) after they had failed to show up on Day Two of their Giles Shield semifinal against   (Bandra), Swami Vivekanand International School Kandivli (SVIS) still don’t seem content.
 
 The ‘Maharashtra Bandh’ on Wednesday was the reason for the Kandivli team’s no-show on Day Two of their last-four clash. But since the other three semifinalists turned up, MSSA initially awarded Rizvi a walkover. They, however, had to reverse their decision after SVIS launched an appeal.
  
 As reported by TOI on Saturday, MSSA held an executive meeting and agreed to continue the match at the Elphinstone pitch at Azad Maidan on Sunday, a decision which was accepted by SVIS representative,  .
  
 On Saturday, however, SVIS principal Dr Kavita Nagpal sent MSSA president   an email in which she threatened legal action if MSSA go ahead with the match at the Elphinstone ground. The email says MSSA must either play Day 2 at the Police Gymkhana, where the match was initially played, or replay the entire match.
  
 For the record, Rizvi Springfield were 352/3 at end of play on Day 1.
  
 SVIS coach Dinesh Lad said that the representative who signed the document had no technical knowledge about the match. “The representative had no idea about the conditions of the pitches. He just agreed with whatever conditions they (MSSA) put forth,” Lad said. “Our assistant coach Mahesh Lotlekar was also present, but the officials didn’t allow him to attend the meeting.”
  
 Lad further said that his team would not turn up for the match on Sunday. “The wicket at Police Gymkhana was easy to bat on and therefore they (Rizvi) managed to pile on the runs. The Elphinstone wicket isn’t the same so we will be at a disadvantage. It’s unfair to us. They shouldn’t play the match just for the sake of playing it,” he said.
  
 MSSA cricket secretary Nadim Memon made it clear SVIS would not be given any more concessions. “The terms of the match were agreed upon by a school representative. The assistant coach was also present at the meeting. We only told them to leave the room when the executive committee was making a decision. The match will not be postponed,” Memon told TOI.
  
 “Giles Shield matches were always played at Azad maidan, but this year we ensured that we give the teams good grounds. However, due to unfortunate events, we had to postpone the match. Police Gymkhana was no longer available as they have tournaments scheduled there. So we did our best to arrange a ground in the limited time we have,” he added.
  
 If SVIS fail to show up for the match, they risk a fine and a ban from MSSA tournaments
 
