PUNE: An offence was registered against a 26-year-old youth on Monday for stalking his college friend for the past three years.

 The suspect used to call and talk to her in obscene language. He sent her   and followed her on the college premises, too. The girl, a resident of Sahakarnagar, approached police when the suspect threatened to kill her, said an officer of the Sahakarnagar police.
 
 The victim stated in her complaint that she came in contact with the suspect in 2015 while studying in a private engineering college. “The suspect then started stalking her on the college premises. He used to call her at any time of the day or night. He had even started sending her lewd messages on her cellphone,” the officer said.
 
 On Friday (January 19), the suspect called the girl and threatened to kill her, following which she lodged the complaint. The youth has been booked under sections 354 (D) [stalking], 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman), 506 (criminal intimidation) of  . “We are yet to arrest the suspect,” the officer said.
 
 Last week, the Chatushrungi police had booked the relative of a 22-year-old woman, an SPPU student, for stalking her for the last two years. “The suspect used to call her on the cellphone and talk to her in lewd language,” police said, adding that the suspect used to stalk her till the university.
 
 As per Section 354 (D) of the IPC, any man who follows a woman and contacts, or attempts to contact such woman to foster personal interaction repeatedly despite a clear indication of disinterest by such woman or monitors the use by a woman of the internet, email or any other form of electronic communication commits the offence of stalking.
 
 A person, on being found guilty, can get three years of jail and fine for first conviction and up to five-year imprisonment and fine for second or subsequent conviction.
 
 
 
 
 An offence was registered against a 52-year-old man from Dattwadi for stalking a 19-year-old girl of his locality for the past one month. The victim alleged in her complaint the suspect followed her whenever she came out of her house.
 
 “She claimed that the suspect had touched her inappropriately. We have booked him under Section 354 (D) of IPC,” the office said.
 
 
 
 
 The Pimpri police on Monday registered an offence against a youth (18) for stalking a17-year-old girl. The victim stated in the complaint that the suspect used to follow her till her school and send lewd messages.
 
 “We have booked him for stalking and under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences and Information and Technology Act,” said an officer of the Pimpri police.
 
