NEW DELHI: In a  ,   was awarded 10 years of rigorous imprisonment, even as the woman and her father backtracked from their statements claiming rape. The woman, who claimed to have consented to sex, was declared hostile after she did not support the prosecution’s case. 

 Fast-track court of judge Ramesh Kumar-II, however, held that the woman’s statement had actually corroborated the police’s case. “It does not make any difference if the prosecutrix was consenting for sexual intercourse with the accused (sic),” it said. 
 
 While awarding the jail term, the court also ordered a compensation of Rs 1 lakh for the woman, who 21-year-old at the time of the crime.
 
 It was, as a matter of fact, the duty of the accused to protect his niece if she had indulged in any “immoral act”, the court added. More importantly, the judge noted that had it been a case of consent, she would not have levelled the heinous allegation on two occasions —one during her medical examination at the hospital and the other before the magistrate court. The submission about her previous statements was made by additional public prosecutor A T Ansari, who stressed even though the woman had turned hostile, the entire evidence could not be disregarded. 
 
 To support her change in stance before the court, the woman blamed an unfit mind behind the two statements against her uncle. The incident took place on the day of Holi in 2016, when she was alone at home. Similar episodes took place again in the future and finally on June 5, 2016, the accused returned to her house offering her contraceptives, which she consumed and started bleeding. Her mother rushed her to a hospital where she remained for three days and an initial statement was recorded. The statement given at the hospital became the basis of the FIR against her uncle. 
 
 Before the court, however, she claimed that the termination of pregnancy was out of her own will just as was the physical relation with her uncle. The woman also refused the possibility of any coercion and influence. Besides, the accused denied rape charge saying he was being falsely implicated as a result of a dispute between him and the woman’s aunt and grandmother. Her father made similar statements during his deposition in court.
 
 After considering the differing views on the case, the court noted that if there was consent, the woman would not have accused her uncle of rape, first, at the hospital and then before the magistrate under Section 164 of the CrPC. “The explanation for levelling the allegation against the accused in both the statements that she was not in a fit state of mind, is not only incompatible.. but also not plausible and do not appeal to reason. Hence, unbelievable,” the judge observed. 
 
 Finding the offence, “gravest of its kind”, the court also accused the uncle of betraying the woman’s trust. In its views, the convict was obligated to protect and care for his niece, but rather, he chose to commit an “unexpected” act. 
 
 “Due to repeated sex, prosecutrix became pregnant... It was the duty of the accused to protect the prosecutrix if she indulged in any immoral act which he did not do. Instead he raped her which... is a very heinous offence,” the court said. 
 
 
