The second collaboration between the producer and director of 'Toilet: Ek Prem Katha' has been a subject of heated discussion ever since the film was announced. While   has been signed as the lead in the   directed, socially-relevant drama ' ', there has been ample speculation around the actress to be cast in the film. 

 Though several names were doing the rounds, the makers have finalised   as the leading lady opposite Shahid. The two will share screen space after four years, the last time being Vishal Bhardwaj’s 'Haider' (2014). 
 
 Putting an end to the speculation, producer Prernaa Arora says, “We are happy to have   on board for 'Batti Gul Meter Chalu'. It’s a love story with an underlying social message. We wanted to highlight the issues we face with electricity in our day-to-day lives and the movie will showcase that in an entertaining way. Both Shahid and Shraddha make for a cute couple and we are looking forward to start shooting the film in February.”
 
 Shraddha’s character is a small-town girl, with a mind of her own. She comes from a women-only family and has been brought up to be independent. A fun loving girl, when it comes to standing up for what is right, she wholeheartedly supports the cause and fights shoulder-to-shoulder with her friend.
 
 Concept by Vipul Rawal and story, screenplay and dialogue by Siddharth and Garima, 'Batti Gul Meter Chalu' is a very different world which we haven’t seen before on the silver screen.
 
 Shraddha Kapoor shares, “I’m thrilled to be working on 'Batti Gul Meter Chalu' along with Shree sir, Prernaa and Shahid. I feel very fortunate to be a part of this film. The subject of the movie is very relevant today and I can’t wait to start shooting for it.”
 
 After the success of 'Toilet: Ek Prem Katha', the producer and director of 'Batti Gul Meter Chalu', join hands with T-Series for this lighthearted but impactful social drama aimed at connecting with every Indian citizen. The film is scheduled to release nationwide on August 31, 2018.
 
