PATNA: At least 675 graduate and postgraduate students will receive their degrees at the second convocation ceremony of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB) in the auditorium of   on March 27.

 Nalanda University chancellor Vijay P Bhatkar will address the ceremony. According to CUSB controller of examinations,  , altogether 90 gold medals will be given to the toppers of different subjects.
 
 “Those receiving their degrees will have to come in traditional Indian attire. For girls, the dress code is a white-coloured salwar-kurta and dupatta or white sari with red or maroon border and a matching blouse. Boys, on the other hand, have to come in a white cotton kurta and Aligarh pajama. They will also wear a head dress (‘pagdi’) and a ‘patka’ with the university logo,” Tripathi said and added huge attendance of students was expected at the convocation.
 
 To attend the ceremony, students have to register themselves at the university’s official website www.cusb.ac.in.
 
 World Sparrow Day: Hundreds of students of Mt Carmel High School (MCHS), Patna Women’s College (PWC), S R Vidyapeeth, St Michael’s High School and St Xavier’s College gathered on   campus for a pre-celebration of World Sparrow Day on Monday.
 
 Students performed street plays, sung songs, made a human chain and raised slogans to save sparrows at the programme organized by Tarumitra.
 
 While MCHS principal Sr M Serena lauded the students’ initiative, Rossy Alexandera from Zamorano University-Central America said sparrows helped creating a balance in the ecosystem.
 
 Tarumitra founder Fr Robert Athickal SJ and teachers of different schools were also present on the occasion.
 
 AKU foundation day: At the eighth foundation day function of Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), vice-chancellor A K   highlighted the achievements made by the varsity in a very short span of time and thanked chief minister Nitish Kumar for taking keen interest in its progress. 
 
 “The university is working hard to start the functioning of all its four new study centres — Centre for river studies, Centre for journalism and mass communications,   and Centre for geographical studies — at the earliest,” Agrawal said. 
 
 AKU pro-VC S M Karim, students, teachers and staff attended the event.
 
 
