THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kovalam is all set to host #Huddle, Asia’s largest startup ecosystem congregation. Chief minister   will inaugurate the conclave planned by Kerala Startup Mission ( ) on April 6. Sharjah digital transformation higher committee chairman   and Prince   of   are expected to participate in the two-day event.

 “It will ensure maximum connect with technology experts and leaders from countries in Asia and Europe and provide opportunities for close interactive sessions between the participants to meet the challenges of scaling up the startups in business, marketing and to build a proper ecosystem for their growth,” said KSUM chief executive officer (CEO)  .
 
 “#Huddle will be an international conference which will be the first of its kind in the state and will offer an opportunity for all interested startups to interact with international entrepreneurs and investors to benchmark their own ventures,” he said.
 
 Startups, investors, mentors and founders will join hands in the event to create the best startup ecosystem in the state.
 
 Currently, there are around 800 technology startups in the state and the aim will be to inspire entrepreneurial minds to set up more viable and potential startups in addition to the growth of existing ventures. The conference would be to pitch in a platform for upcoming startups to showcase their product and business model in front of the entrepreneurs and industry stalwarts, KSUM officials said.
 
 The event is expected to have the participation of 2,000 members with 40 speakers in 30 sessions. “Huddle will primarily focus on the emerging sectors like blockchain, cryptocurrency, internet of things (IoT), gaming and e-sports, cybersecurity, digital entertainment, augmented reality, virtual reality, e-governance and mobile governance among other latest technologies,” said KSUM business development manager Ashok Kurian P.
 
 Aspiring entrepreneurs and startup entrepreneurs will benefit from the event because established entrepreneurs, mentors and investors would give the feedback on the business models.
 
