Bengaluru: Veteran filmmaker and art director MS   on Saturday said he is concerned about ‘super censorship’ of Indian movies, a practice under which anyone can violently oppose a film even before it’s released. He cited the example of the recent controversy surrounding the Bollywood period drama Padmaavat.

 Sathyu raised questions on the relationship between Shiv Sena and films and Karni Sena and Padmaavat. “I don’t care about the censor board but am worried about ‘super censorship’,” he added. The filmmaker was speaking at a panel discussion on ‘censorship in India’ as part of the ongoing Bengaluru International Film Festival – 2018 at Orion Mall.
 
 Best known for his directorial venture Garam Hawa (1973), based on the Partition, Sathyu said self-discipline (self-censorship) is important and people need to fight to get their films released. “Censorship is obsolete in a free democratic secular country like India,” he added, while sharing his own experiences regarding censorship. 
 
 SV Rajendra Singh Babu, chairman, Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy, said tackling the censor board is the biggest fear of every filmmaker. “I have experienced censorship woes myself regarding the movie Antha. The censor board in India is politically motivated. The government and industry should work together to protect the film fraternity,” he added. Babu said 68 days (when the film is presented to the board) is too long a period to approve a film.
 
 N Vidyashankar, artistic director,   2018, said censorship in society is not healthy. “Our society is not devoid of censorship even when it comes to women. However, I suggest the need for self-censorship in the film industry,” he opined.
 
 Srinivasappa, regional officer, Bengaluru, Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC), said the procedure has been laid down by the Constitution. “However, we are open to listening to the problems in Karnataka,” he added.
 
 Puneet skips Biffes
 
 The much-awaited session with Sandalwood star Puneeth Rajkumar didn’t take place, leaving his fans and movie buffs disappointed. Puneeth was supposed to participate in an interactive session with the audience followed by screening of Bettada Hoovu (1985), in which he worked as a child artist. The movie fetched him the national award. However, an organizer said the actor informed them that he couldn’t make it to the session as he had some important work. Even the media was informed about the development about 10 minutes before the session was to begin. 
 
 WHAT’S HOT TODAY
 
 Session: Indian regional cinema – online promotion and distribution
 
 Movies to look for
 
 Badha (Marathi, 2002): Sumitra Bhave and Sunil Sukthankar
 
 Laddaland (Thai, 2011): Sophon Sakdaphisit
 
 The Nothing Factory (Portuguese, 2017): Pedro Pinho
 
 Redoubtable (French, 2017): Michel Hazanavicius
 
 Nemoda Boolya (Tulu, 2017): Gangadhar Kirodian
 
 Mooka Nayaka (Kannada, 2017): Baragur Ramachandrappa
 
 Sleeping Giant (Russian, 2016): Andrew Cividino
 
 Beauty and the dogs (Arabic, 2017): Kaouther Ben Hania
 
 The Sacrifice (Spanish, 2017): Jaime Osorio Marquez
 
 Ashwathama (Braj, 2017): Pushpendra Singh
 
 
