Gurgaon’s   has won countless accolades and honours in her career as a para-athlete, the chief of them being the tag of India’s only female Paralympic medallist. However, the one opportunity which her daughter Devika beat her to was speaking in front of over 50 global leaders and heads of state. The Gurgaon girl got this rare opportunity when she was among the two youngsters, chosen from across the Commonwealth, who spoke at the opening ceremony of the   Heads of Government Meeting 2018 in London on April 19. The meeting was attended by the heads of state/government of the 53-member countries of the Commonwealth, including Prime Minister  , as well as Queen Elizabeth II, the head of the Commonwealth, and members of the royal family, including Prince Charles, Prince William and Prince Harry.
 
 Devika, herself a para-athlete and an activist, got this opportunity after having been a recipient of the Queen’s Young Leaders Award. In 2015, Devika was among the 60 inaugural winners of the award for her work for persons with physical, emotional and social challenges in India. 
 
  
  
 
 Devika says, “I run an NGO called Wheeling Happiness, which works towards social inclusion through sports. It was due to the work done by this NGO that I was honoured by the Queen in 2015. In four years, the Commonwealth selected 240 winners for this award, and this year, two of us were selected to speak at the opening ceremony of the summit.” Devika was born with hemiplegia, which causes paralysis to one side of the body. In her career as a para-athlete, Devika won three medals at the IPC Athletics Grand Prix, and multiple golds in the National Paralympic Games between 2010 and 2015.
 
  
  
 
 Talking about the experience, the 27-year-old, who is currently pursuing PhD from UK’s  , says, “What makes the feat amazing is that in the 45-minute opening ceremony, there were only six speeches, including one each by the Queen, the British Prime Minister, the PM of  , and the Commonwealth Secretary General. Apart from these, it was me and a fellow Queen’s Young Leaders Award winner from   who got the opportunity to speak in front of the august gathering.”
 
 Devika says that since the speech was scheduled to be only two minutes long, she tried to be precise and to the point in what she had to say. “I thought, if I got nervous or carried away, I would be doing injustice to the opportunity that I had been given, and also throw away a chance to speak up for the differently-abled people,” she says. Keeping in tune with the theme of the summit – Towards a Common Future – Devika spoke about the need for including the differently-abled and the disenfranchised in the governments’ policies and goals for the future. And while she was initially daunted by the prospect of speaking in front of over 50 global leaders, the 27-year-old held her nerve. She says, “I was more nervous during the two-day dress rehearsals than during the actual speech. At that time, I realized that it was a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, so it was my duty to deliver it perfectly.”
 
 
 
 
