NOIDA: The relatives of suspected   Moti Goyal, who was shot dead on Monday evening, have lodged a police complaint naming a former   and three “friends” with whom he had developed differences of late. 

 The FIR names Brij Pal Nagar, the former business partner, and   Vikram and Vijay, who ran a dairy on the plot where Moti was shot dead on Monday. It also includes the name of Anil Nagar, the son of former Congress worker Phire Singh Nagar who died a few years back. Police have slapped charges under IPC Sections 302 ( ), 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy), 34 (common intention), 506 (criminal intimidation) following a complaint by Moti’s son Utkarsh Goyal. All four are untraceable.
 
 Police said Moti had filed three cases against the four accused after their ties soured since 2015. Circle officer III Swetabh Pandey said Moti and Brij Pal had been involved in a business dealing with property for long. “Brij Pal shifted allegiance and partnered with Anil, after which he fell out with Moti in 2014. A year later, Moti lodged an FIR against Brij Pal and Anil, accusing the former of getting a plot registered in his name by fraud and then transferring it to Anil. The two were arrested and subsequently released on bail,” he said.
 
 In September 2017, Moti had even fought with Vikram, Brij Pal and Vikram’s friend Omi, following which Vikram and Omi were jailed and later released on bail.
 
 Police said Vikram and his brother Vijay, who hail from Baghpat’s Chandinagar area, had been running a dairy on a part of a 16 bigha land belonging to Moti. The alleged land grabber was shot dead on this plot on Monday.
 
 “They were initially given the plot for running a dairy because of their friendly ties with Moti. But they refused to leave it eventually. This apparently led to a quarrel between Moti and the two brothers,” said Pankaj Pant, the SHO of Sector 49 police station. Sources said five witnesses, including labourers working as the 
 
 Police are questioning five witnesses in the case, including labourers who were working on the construction site where Moti was shot dead.
 
 Sources said there were around 40 cases lodged against Moti in different police stations of Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad. The cops have released details of 13 such cases, which include cheating and forgery.
 
 The police suspect the attackers had been tracking Moti’s movement for quite some time as the businessman was shot within seven minutes of the assailants reaching the construction site in Sector 49. Sources said the assailants had even engaged Moti in a conversation before shooting at him.
 
 According to police, Moti was shot at least seven times with a .30 bore pistol by two shooters who had come on a bike. “The postmortem report mentions all the bullets were lodged in his head,” Pant said.
 
 Moti, a resident of Ghaziabad, was allegedly involved in land grabbing in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad and Bulandshahr for the past two decades. In 2005, Noida police had arrested him in connection with land scams totalling almost Rs 2,500 crore.
 
 
