MUMBAI:   degree holders will have to undergo a six-month training programme to get a licence to perform  . A special committee has been formed at the state level to decide on designing and imparting such a course in the wake of the recent Supreme Court judgement that MBBS doctors would have to undergo training and appear for an exam to perform the imaging test.

 A special exam for MBBS doctors has been a point of debate since a 2014 amendment of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostics Techniques ( ) Act stated that only those clearing the course are to get registration. Even as several online entities had jumped at the opportunity and started offering six-month courses, it was not till 2016 that the Medical Council of India (MCI) came out with a module. In the state, though, none of the government medical colleges offered such a course. A reason often cited was the series of litigations being fought at the Delhi high court and the Supreme Court.
 
 In 2016, the Delhi HC had stayed the need for such a course while hearing writ petitions filed by the Indian Medical Association, Sonology Society of India and Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA). This was overturned by the SC on March 14 this year. Currently, only those holding post-graduate degrees or diplomas in radiology and gynaecology are allowed to perform the test. 
 
 Dr Pravin Shingare, head, Directorate of Medical Education and Research, said the SC decision would help peripheral hospitals in rural areas to have a wider pool of doctors offering radiology services. “Often in peripheral hospitals, MBBS doctors carry out deliveries and therefore a sound knowledge of imagining techniques will boost their skill set,” he said. 
 
 He said the course will be extended to all 14 medical colleges depending on demand. “Almost every medical college has a wait-list for sonography; the course will bring that down by giving us more manpower,” he said.
 
 But the IRIA is sceptical. “It’s a short-cut. Why should students study radiology for two to three years when MBBS doctors are allowed to do certain tests with a six-month degree? Also, offering the course before strengthening PCPNDT monitoring could have adverse repercussions,” he said. 
 
 Dr Jayesh Lele of the Indian Medical Association said that as of now they would not oppose the SC verdict. “Having said that, on one hand we have the laws thinking of allowing ayurveda and unani graduates to perform abortions, but on the other we have added tests for MBBS doctors,” he said.
 
 
 
