Having started her career in television very young,   aka   has carved a niche for herself in the industry. She has a huge fan following, and is among the first few to become a star in the television industry. DD continues to outshine many of her contemporaries not just in television but also in the first edition of Chennai Times Most Desirable Woman On Television 2017. We get the elusive anchor-actor candid on her journey and more: 

 
 Yes, of course. It feels great and comes as a surprise to me. It is always nice to be desired, isn’t it? I knew people like me, but never knew I can be desirable, too! I am excited to be on the list. Desirable is a nice adjective, no? (smiles)
 
 
 It’s the heart, I think. You need to be kind, brave, make your own rules as long as it doesn’t hurt anyone and have perseverance. Respect is very important for me, or, for any woman. And this is something you don't demand, but earn it. If I have reached this position... it is probably qualities like these that make people like me. But if I must pick a feature, it will be my smile. I don’t think I can go anywhere without a smile… I need to wear a smile. Also, words… as words are all I need to take your heart away.
 
 
 I am not someone who takes success very seriously. It is the just the quality of your work that determines your presence in someone’s mind or heart. I love to work and give it my all when I am assigned to do something. Audiences take time to watch my show on TV, so I can’t take them for granted. If I am successful in making them happy, I feel relieved that I’ve achieved something. Also, I don’t want to take all the credit myself as there are so many people who work hard to make a show successful. I am lucky that I’m the face of the show and represent all the others in the team. Success is just a passing thing; it moves from one person to another. If you think you own success all the time, you are just being a stupid person. I don’t think I am so stupid to take it all into my head. I don’t let success or fame own me. I am a free spirit. I’ve kept DD, the individual, very real. But of course, I am very thankful to the people around me.
 
 
 That’s how I am all the time. I am always hyper! I cannot make anyone who walks into the set feel uncomfortable. At the end of our interview, if I make you feel awkward, I feel bad. On the other hand, I am a very closed person. Not many know the real person that I am. I don’t wear my heart on my sleeve and make my problems obvious. Everyone who we come across may have gone through different kinds of difficult situations. So, when I meet them, I make it a point to take the effort to make them feel comfortable.
 
 
 I started my career on television when I was 10 years old with Siruvar Nigazhchi on  . I did about 20-25 episodes. Though it was a quiz show for kids, I found it difficult to host as I was too young to handle all the responsibilities. But I did around 20-25 episodes and took a break for some time. Later, when I was in class nine, I got an opportunity to anchor a show for Vijay TV. It was a teen show and they thought I would be apt. Since then there has been no looking back. I have been doing shows back to back. Being in the industry this long, I have seen a lot in my career. Like any other profession, there are ups and downs. There are shows that get good response and shows that don’t work well. If it’s a hit, I share the happiness with everyone. But if it doesn’t do well, I shoulder the responsibility. If a show doesn’t get great response, I watch the previous episodes to see what’s really going wrong. I learn from each show and I try to improve myself with every episode. I consciously try to shift genres as I don’t like to stick to one format. That applies even to my dressing. With so many challenges for women today, I am blessed to be working in a safe and protective environment. But having been here for so long, people think I am some ancient woman (laughs). That’s okay… I am happy. 
 
 
 I started off my career by acting in K Balachander sir’s serials, which are different from other television soaps. But as I grew up, I had other responsibilities and even took a break from TV for a while. This was the time when I had to work hard for my home. It was then that I got several movie and serial offers. Obviously, I couldn’t do anything. And now, movies are happening, and I do what interests me. I take life as it comes and don’t really plan anything. 
 
 
 … because nobody offered me a film. In fact,   sir once asked me why I didn’t act in movies. I never said that I wouldn’t act. People assumed it so. But   sir offered me a role in his film Pa. Paandi. He said that it was just one scene, but a powerful one. I loved it the minute I heard the script. When I asked why he chose me, he simply said he wanted someone who’s considered a part of everyone’s family. I am generally not a confident person when it comes to trying out new things. And this opportunity came to me after a really long gap. But he encouraged me and the film was received well. I am amused to see my name mentioned in a couple of film reviews, something I least expected, especially since my portions come for only a few minutes. Later, Gautham sir offered me a part in Dhruva Natchathiram and for his own music production, Ulaviravu, which I had fun shooting for. Recently, I also did a small portion in Rajiv Menon’s Sarvam Thaala Mayam. But I should be honest about something — I am nervous about facing the camera even today. There have been days when I have thrown up before the shoot of a new show/film. That’s usual. Once things fall in place, I am set.
 
 
 If you have decided to become an actor, you should do all kind of roles. If you can add value to the project, you should take it up. For me, when I read a script for a movie or a TV show, it should work for me. There have been times when I have rejected offers. When I turn down an offer, it’s not because I don’t like their work. It’s mostly because I won’t be the right person for it. I can’t do any work half-heartedly just because I am close to someone or they offer me big money. They say in   la, gut feeling, that’s what it is. That’s why after a year’s break, I chose to do Enkitta Modhaadhe, a fun reality show with television stars. 
 
 
 It does irk me, but I always try to see the positive side. Like for instance, it helps me identify people who never stood up for me. As for trolls, I don’t like to comment or write back to them. If I get 15 demeaning comments, I have more than 1000 comments and likes, which are positive and encouraging. I see the goodness in everything.
 
 
 He must be honest, protective, kind and someone who stands up for me. I am very protective about people in my close circle. If there’s someone who’s better than me in doing it, I will be delighted.
 
 
 
 
 
 
