NAGPUR: Kidney problems may not be dogging people of Asola village alone. The village saw 14 deaths due to kidney failure in last seven years. Even as the local leaders believe the phenomenon is limited to Asola, TOI came across three more deaths in neighbouring villages.

 A quick survey at a couple of villages within 6 kms from Asola showed three more persons had died in the last three years. Apart from it two were found undergoing treatment.
 
 Govind Ade, a farmer in his 60s from   village, around 2 kms from Asola, was undergoing treatment at  . Ade said he had been suffering since last four years but was stable now. Others in the village also admitted consuming pain killers to ward off stress after work. These can be one of the reasons for kidney ailment.
 
 A little further at Asegaon, TOI came across three persons who had died due to kidney failure. Their kin showed medical papers that included records of dialysis and other treatment. They are Pabhabai Jhadav, Kishore Shinde and Bhaurao Jhadav. In the age group of 50 to 60s, the three died between 2015 and 2016. Bhaurao Jhadav’s blood report showed creatinine serum level of 8.7mg/dl. This is an indicator of kidney malfunction, the normal level is less than 1.4 mg/dl.
 
 Forty seven year old Shyamrao Pawar, a resident of the same village, was undergoing treatment at Nagpur since nearly a year.   claimed he never took any painkiller saying since he ran a shop which did not require any physical labour.
 
 Dr   of Amravati at whose clinic a number of patients from the area are undergoing treatment said the actual number of patients could be higher. He said a high number of patients from Darwa and Digras tehsils of Yavatmal came to his clinic. The area is close to Amravati town.
 
 “I have been warning the authorities since last one and a half years, but to no avail. When I had contested for graduate constituency elections, I came across a number of cases during the door-to-door campaign I undertook,” he said.
 
 
