HYDERABAD: Till now, criminals used to damage or snap wires of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras to avoid getting caught or leave any trace behind. 

 But, in an unusual incident, a businessman from  , who did not want his colony residents to keep tabs on his movements, reportedly 'ordered' his employee to snap a community CCTV camera. 
 
 However, their act got exposed as it was captured by a nearby electronic eye. 
 
 
  
 
 The incident took place in   police station limits and this fact came to light during investigation of a case. On December 25, 2017, office-bearers of   had lodged a complaint with police claiming that unknown persons had snapped wires of a CCTV camera, which they had set up as part of the community CCTV project. 
 
 During probe, police found there was another CCTV camera nearby, though far away from the defunct camera. When they verified its footage, they saw two persons working near the pole where the camera was set up. On verification, police ascertained that the two were   and Venkatesh, who work for an internet service provider, and reached the place to provide an internet connection at the residence of businessman   (name changed). 
 
 When the two were questioned, they claimed they were ignorant about the snap job. The technicians, however, told police that one Anil, who works for Ram Kumar, was present at the location on that day. When a nearby CCTV footage was verified, they saw Anil scaling a ladder, left near the pole, when the two technicians stepped aside. 
 
 On questioning Anil, police discovered the fact. Admitting that he had snapped the wires of the CCTV camera, Anil claimed that he did it on the instructions of his employer Ram Kumar, who himself was an office-bearer earlier, and did not want the new office-bearers and others in the locality track his movements. 
 
 When contacted, Karkhana inspector B   confirmed the development and said criminal action would be initiated against any person who deliberately disables a community CCTV camera. "Community CCTVs are set up as part of public safety initiative. Strict action will be taken if someone disconnects or interrupts them. With the help of CCTVs, we were able to crack many cases, including nabbing a Maharashtra-based pseudo police gang within 24 hours,'' Janaiah told TOI. 
 
 
