THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It was on April 5, 1957 that the first Communist government led by   assumed office. Two years later a mass agitation over their decision to bring in a legislation to contain unhealthy practices and corruption in education sector led to their dismissal. Ironically, on the 61st anniversary of the swearing in of the EMS government, the LDF government led by Pinarayi Vijayan was put in the dock by the Supreme Court for supporting corrupt practices in the sector, including collection of capitation fee.

 The SC order nullifying the Kerala Professional Colleges (Regularization of Admission in Medical Colleges) Ordinance 2017 is a slap on the face of the government, which a day ago hastened to pass a bill to replace the ordinance in the assembly, with support from opposition led by the   and even a lone BJP MP.
 
 The Bill passed by the assembly on Wednesday is on its way to Raj Bhavan. With Thursday’s SC order, it has become almost certain that the Governor, who is a former chief justice of India, will return the Bill to the assembly. The reaction of CM Pinarayi Vijayan to the court order hints that the government is even willing to repeal the bill as it doesn’t want to engage in a course of conflict with the Supreme Court.
 
 Sources in the government said that at least two senior bureaucrats had warned the government against the bill. But the CMO was adamant to bring the legislation and was aided by a recommendation from law secretary B G Hareendranath. The finding of ASC led by Justice James that Kannur MCH admitted students by accepting capitation fee ranging from Rs. 22 lakh to Rs. 45 lakh also didn’t deter the government.
 
 It is learnt that the highlevel connections and wealth of the managements of both colleges played key role in influencing the government decision. A religious leader based in Kozhikode, who is close to the Kannur college management, stitched together a united political front in defence of admissions.
 
 “It was surprising. All these years,   had fought for merit and were against capitation fee. The bill is against the spirit of this stand”, said political scientist  .
 
 It is learnt that issue was discussed in the CPM state secretariat. However the secretariat was not apprised of the magnitude of the issue including the burden to defend even the capitation fee, by the leaders in the government, it is learnt. CPI state secretary   said the draft bill was discussed in the LDF state committee. “After analyzing all situations, we took a lenient stand considering the future of the students”, Rajendran told TOI.
 
