JODHPUR: The high court has sought details of the action taken on the basis of   report on Mehrangarh temple tragedy which had claimed 216 lives in

 2008. The report had been submitted by the commission in May 2011and since then, the victims have been demanding from the state government to make this report public.
 
 
 Failing to submit the details by April 16, the division bench of   and Justice Ram Chandra Singh Jhala, has directed the chief secretary to appear before the court in the next hearing.
 
 Disappointed victims under the banner of Mehrangarh Dukahntika Sangharsh Samiti had moved the court after their repeated attempts to get the government to make the report public failed.
 
 Secretary of the Samiti, Manaram, said that for the past seven years, since the report had been submitted, they have been seeking the report to be made public so that its findings could be known with regard to the cause of the tragedy and the responsibility of this accident could be fixed.
 
 “Two governments have ruled through the state since then, but neither the Ashok Gehlot government first nor the present government of   has bothered to make the report public. But doing so, it seems that they want to hide the facts and save the guilty,” he said.
 
 After seeing no response from the government, the samiti finally moved the court with a prayer to make the report public.
 
 216 youths had died in this tragedy on the first day of Navratra on September 30, 2008 early morning at the Mehrangarh Fort, who all had queued up in the fort to pay obeisance to the goddess Chamunda.
 
 The then state government of BJP had constituted a commission headed by Justice Jasraj Chopra to probe the causes of the tragedy and fix the responsibility for this accident in October 2008 with the direction to submit the report in three months.
 
 The commission got six extensions due to hesitation of the victims’ kin in appearing before the commission and submitting their representations.
 
 The report was finally submitted in May 2011 during the Congress rule and since then, the report has been gathering dust with the successive governments.
 
