PATNA: The state government will launch   rubella (MR) vaccination campaign in September this year. The central government had launched it in August last year.

 According to the national immunization goals, India has planned to eliminate measles and control congenital rubella syndrome (CRS) caused by the rubella virus by 2020. 
 
 “With the advent of the campaign, we will start administering the MR vaccine free of cost in all the government schools and anganwadi centres. The vaccine will also be available in government hospitals. The immunization programme will most probably start in all the 38 districts simultaneously,” district immunization officer Dr S P Veenayak said.
 
 The MR campaign was started in February last from Karnataka,  , Puducherry, Goa and Lakshadweep. The rest of the country was to be covered in phases, said a health department source.
 
 Although immunization against measles was being carried out by the government, which included a single dose of measles vaccine given to a child between 9 and 15 months and the second dose of vaccine at 5 years. This is the first time that the state government will introduce free rubella vaccine.
 
 “The MMR (measles-mumps-rubella) vaccine was already being administered in private hospitals and clinics and will cost nearly Rs500 per dose. The CRS may cause several congenital anomalies and also physical deformities and limb defects,” said Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) associate professor of paediatrics Dr Neelam Verma. 
 
 “Rubella is a mild viral infection that mainly infects in children. A woman who has been infected with the virus during pregnancy has a 90% chance of transmitting it to the foetus. The virus is known to cause hearing defects, eye and heart defects and mental retardation in the child,” said gynaecologist Dr Usha  .
 
 She said in developed countries, cases of CRS was one per lakh live births, while in developing countries it was between 0.4 and 4.3 per thousand live births. “In India, it is between 2 and 3 per thousand live births,” Dr Didwania said.
 
 
