CHENNAI: Stereotyped and discriminated against, members of the transsexual community are usually forced to live on the fringes and their rich cultural history, especially in  , is forgotten. Through her work, writer, documentary filmmaker and activist   has been consistently trying to dispel myths and her latest venture, 'Idaiyinam', a documentary, is yet another effort to do the same. 

 "There are references to transsexuals in ancient Tamil literature such as the 'Tholkappiyam', where they are referred to as 'pedi', as well as ' ' and ' '," says Madurai-based Priya, who has also launched an android app for the documentary, shooting for which will begin on April 15, observed as Transgender Day in the state. "Transsexuals have fought in wars, and been employed in palaces," she adds.
 
 The documentary will deal with the community and its rich culture, literature and art. "I have been researching for the past four years collecting documents and ancient texts where there are references to transpeople and also photographs of various paintings and sculptures that feature members of the community," says Priya. 
 
 The documentary is an extension of the work she has been doing over the years.   launched the Transgender Resource Centre in Madurai last year and today it has 70 books, in Tamil and English; more than 50 magazines, nearly 1,000 paper cuttings, about 30 research books and over 50 films and documentaries, and is the place where many scholars head to for research material. "Eight years ago, I began collecting books, magazines, and paper cuttings, where there are references to the community. I also began sourcing documentaries and short films, as well as research papers on the community and government policies," she explains. 
 
 Over the years, Priya has also written five books in Tamil and also made three other documentaries, including a 'transgender anthem', 'Vaanam Thaandi', which was released last year on the YouTube channel, Tranzmedia. "It brings together 18 transgenders from various walks of life - from a fish seller to a writer and news reader," says Priya, who hopes that with 'Idaiyinam' she will be able to go a step further. "I want to show the world who we really are, with evidence," she says.
 
 
