It was a Mehdi Hassan concert in Dhaka. The maestro had begun performing when she entered the room. Immediately, Hassan got up from the stage and announced that he can’t sing further. “Unke izzajat ke bagair hum toh gaa nahi sakta. Aap log nahi jante yeh kaun hai aur isko hum kis nazar se dekhte hai (I can’t sing without her permission. You don’t know who she is and how I revere her,” Hassan had said.

 That night, Hassan didn’t elaborate that the lady whose izzajat he had sought was the first superstar of the subcontinent, with 180 Urdu and Bengali films in her kitty. A Bangladeshi Hindu by birth, Jharna Basak had migrated to Pakistan in 1968. There, she took up the name of Shabnam and eventually went on to rule the Pakistani film industry for 31 years.
 
 A 13-time recipient of the popular Nigar awards, the Pakistani government had conferred the Lifetime Achievement award on Shabnam in 2012. Some still say Lollywood’s downfall started after Shabnam left for Bangladesh, a back-handed compliment that Shabnam hasn’t taken seriously. She is overwhelmed by the love Pakistan has showered on her. Next month, Shabnam is going back to her second home. This time, it is to shoot an Urdu serial.
 
 As one walks into her apartment in the upscale Gulshan neighbourhood of Dhaka, different thoughts crisscross the mind. One of her Urdu films with Nadim — ‘Aina’ — is still the longest-running Pakistani film till date. Shabnam’s husband Robin Ghosh had composed the   that had Hassan’s evergreen ‘Mujhe dil se na bhulana’ song. The overriding thought when one walked into her apartment was: would the 76-year-old actress be another avatar of Norma Desmond, the yesteryear star from Billy Wilder’s ‘Sunset Boulevard’, who could never give up her starry airs?
 
 But Shabnam is a pleasant surprise, more a homely matron than a celebrity. “I feel a special connect for anyone from Kolkata. Lunch with me is mandatory. We can chat over bhaat-tok daal-maach,” she says, playing the perfect hostess.
 
 Over lunch, she speaks about how her father, the famous referee Nanu Basak, had encouraged the tomboy Jharna who made a chance debut in a dance sequence for a 1958 Bengali film, ‘Edesh Tomar Amar’. Two years later, she was cast as the lead of an Urdu film in what was then West Pakistan. The director wanted to tap a bigger market but Shabnam couldn’t speak Urdu. “I was given an Urdu script written in Bengali. For six months, I rehearsed. For my Pakistan debut, I was asked to use Shabnam as my name. But I didn’t convert to Islam,” she says. The film, ‘Chanda’, went on to become a super hit.
 
 After 1971, when she wanted to visit Dhaka, Shabnam had to wait two years to get a no-objection certificate needed for her Bangladesh visa. “Later, I found that an anonymous letter-writer from Lollywood had requested the ministry not to give me the NOC. The fear was that crores invested on me would go down the drain if I didn’t return from Dhaka. Only after I promised to return to Lollywood after visiting my parents did I get the NOC. In 1999, I finally quit Lollywood and returned to Dhaka to take care of my ailing parents. But after I decided to retire, it took me 10 years to complete my pending projects,” she says.
 
 For outdoor shoots, Shabnam always travelled first-class and needed five-star accommodation. She refused to do double-heroine films in Pakistan, a clause producers accepted. She had even turned down an Indian producer’s offer to act in a Bollywood film starring Amitabh Bachchan, Shashi Kapoor and Rekha. “The cast was decided but I didn’t know the story. Since all were stalwarts, I wondered what I would get if I do the film and get overshadowed. Besides, it would be a double-heroine film. I told the producer that I was very busy,” she confesses.
 
 With 15 Bangaldeshi films also in her kitty, why did Tollywood overlook this self-confessed admirer of Suchitra Sen? “Back then, the relationship between India and Pakistan was strained. Film industry news didn’t travel to India. That’s why nobody knows me in Bengal,” she explains, adding that she is still open to good offers from Tollywood.
 
 Unlike contemporary heroines who often give up their acting career after matrimony and motherhood, Shabnam was different. Composer Robin Ghosh, whom she married in 1965, was supportive. Shabnam even choreographed her songs to avoid “vulgar moves”. Audience acceptance for a mother-turned-heroine who came from the minority community wasn’t an issue in Pakistan then. “No one questioned why a Bengali heroine was the highest paid actress then. Producers would pay me in advance, sign me on for films that would be shot two years later and accept that I might not even do them if I didn’t like the story later,” she says.
 
 But nobody accused her of being tantrum-prone. Rather, she was extremely punctual, arriving on the sets at 8am for a 10am shoot. Only the sweeper would be around then. The director would arrive at 11am, and the hero-cum-producer would land up at 2pm. “My husband had told me that you can dictate terms when you have hits. But you will go down if your films flop. His priceless advice was to decide if I want to reach the studio at 2pm now and then go to the studio at 8am if my films flop,” she recalls.
 
 Shabnam remained grounded and refused producers keen on giving her a personal office at the studio. “I had once seen the belongings of a top heroine removed from her office the day her films flopped. I wanted to avoid that kind of a situation,” she says. Shabnam, in essence, never wanted to be a Norma. It’s best to gracefully bow out before the camera moves away.
 
 “I wanted to myself retire from movies before the industry got me retired,” she signs off.
 
 
