PATNA: The police suspect the involvement of contract killers in the murder of Digha trader Ram Bacchan Rai (45) on March 10. Rai was shot dead near his building material shop at Digha Hat under the Digha police station area in the city.

 Sunny Rai (25), Vikash Rai (22) and Lallu Rai (40) along with a juvenile are named accused in the FIR lodged by the deceased’s younger brother  . Only the juvenile has been arrested in the case as the other three are absconding.
 
 Police sources said two empty 9mm cartridges were recovered from the spot. Usually, professional shooters use 9mm pistols. “The way Rai was shot in his head and criminals moved his body to make sure that he was no more also indicates the involvement of professional killers,” sources said.
 
 City SP (central) D Amarkesh said investigations were on to know about the killers involved in the murder. “Sunny and Vikash were among those who were spotted there at the time of the murder,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, police also said notorious criminal Nakat Rai alias Nakat Gope had threatened over the phone to kill the trader within ten days. Nakat has been lodged in Beur jail for the past two years in connection with a murder case.
 
 Digha police station SHO   said the investigations revealed that the criminal had made a threat call to one of the close relatives of the deceased to kill him. “Sunny and Vikash are Nakat’s sons. The criminal had made the threat call a week before the murder,” he said.
 
 No clue in   double murder case: Bihta police have no clue so far in the couple’s murder at   under the Bihta police on March 10. Bihta police station SHO Ranjeet Kumar Singh said police were yet to ascertain the reason behind the murder.
 
  jawan’s limbs paralysed: Army jawan Arun Kumar Rai (25), who was shot at during a bid to loot him at Chiraiyatand overbridge on March 11, has suffered paralysis on his right side of the body. Gandhi Maidan police station SHO Deepak Kumar, quoting doctors, said the bullet injury on his left side neck caused paralysis. “One of the suspects has been identified, but he is yet to be arrested,” he said.
 
 
