

 
 Be it the ice bucket challenge, the Kylie Jenner lip challenge or the mannequin challenge, numerous challenges have gone viral on social media over the last few years. Now, closer home, it is the  , initiated by Minister of State (Independent Charge), Ministry of Youth Affairs And Sports,  , that has caught the attention of young India. The minister, also an Olympic medallist, hails from Jaisalmer and he recently posted a video of him doing push-ups in his office. He urged people to post pictures and videos of how they keep themselves fit and send a fitness challenge to their friends on social media.
 
 The minister also challenged cricketer Virat Kohli, actor  , and badminton player Saina Nehwal to join in – all of them have happily accepted the challenge. And now, it seems that it has struck the right chord with people of Jaipur, who have been sharing their workout videos on social media and challenging their friends to do the same. 
 
 
 
 Trap shooter Mahipal Shekhawat, a resident of Vaishali Nagar, posted a video of him doing battle rope workout at a city gym. 
  
  
 He told us, “Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore and I are a part of a common WhatsApp group since we are both professional shooters. He sent his video to the group too, and that’s how I got to know about this. Majority of us, who are added on this group, appreciated his initiative and have accepted his challenge. I posted a video of battle rope workout; it is one of my favourite workouts as I think it is one of the most effective, full-body workout. I challenged my gym mates and many of them accepted the challenge.” 
 
 
 
 
 Rishee Miglani, a Jaipur-based actor and entrepreneur and a resident of Vaishali Nagar, posted a video of him riding a cycle. “Your body can stand almost anything. It’s your mind that you have to convince. #HumFitTohIndiaFit,” read his caption. 
  
  
 “It is important that we take out time from our busy schedule to exercise. I think this is a fantastic challenge that he (Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore) has come up with and I hope that people take up this challenge seriously. I posted my video of cycling as this is something that I have been doing since I was a child. Though I took a break from cycling for some time, but seeing actor   riding a bicycle inspired me to resume cycling. I have even started going to the gym on a bicycle instead of my car,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Priya Rathore, a teacher and resident of Jagatpura, responded to the fitness challenge by posting her video of doing jump squats. 
  
  
 She told us, “I got to know about this fitness challenge when I saw a couple of my friends posting their videos on social media. I have never accepted any social media challenge but being a fitness freak, I couldn’t resist myself from sharing a video of my favourite form of workout. I hope it inspires others to take up any form of physical activity.”
 
 
 
 
 Devyani Bhatnagar, a career consultant and a resident of Gopalbari area, shared her plank workout video supported with a caption that read, “Fit is not a destination. It is a way of life.” She further challenged one of her fitness buddies. 
  
  
 “I have always been a fitness freak and thus this challenge instantly caught my attention. Plank is my favourite workout as it strengthens your core,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 Varun Sharma, an entrepreneur, and resident of Raja Park, said, “I think it’s an interesting social media challenge and not those mind-numbing ones which have gone viral on the internet of late." 
  
  
 "I have shared my push-up video as this is something that I love doing. I am also happy to see that so many people from Jaipur, including my friends, coming forward and taking up this fitness challenge. Such challenges help in creating a culture that encourages anyone to exercise,” he added.
 
 
 
