AHMEDABAD: A 24-year-old   from a prosperous Mumbai-based business family has decided to renounce a fortune worth crores and seek salvation by dedicating himself to the Jain community.

 Mokshesh Sheth, whose family owns JK Corporation, which has interests in diamond, metal and sugar industries, will become a   at an elaborate ceremony to be held at Tapovan Circle on   road on Friday morning in front of thousands of Jain devotees from across the country.
 
 
 Mokshesh, who has an enviable academic record, says he wants to “audit” the religion as a humble student instead of sifting through accounts books.
 
 “I was about 15 when I first thought of becoming a Jain monk. I craved internal peace which the material world would not have provided,” he said, adding that he wants happiness for all, instead of only himself.
 
 His family originally hails from Deesa in north Gujarat and has made Mumbai their home for over 60 years now. His father Sandeep and uncle Girish Sheth still live in a joint family in Mumbai.
 
 Mokshesh, the eldest of three brothers, went to Manav Mandir School in Walkeshwar and scored 93.38% in Class 10 and 85% in Class 12. He subsequently went to HR College for graduation in commerce, simultaneously pursuing chartered accountancy, before joining the family’s metal business at Sangli.
 
 
 Five women in this Jain family have already become sadhvis
 
 Mokshesh was always spiritually inclined and first expressed his wish to become a monk some eight years ago. However, we convinced him to first complete his education and experience the world before taking the leap of faith. In the 200-yearold history of our family, Mokshesh would be the first man from embrace monkhood even though five women have become Jain sadhvis,” said his uncleGirish Sheth.
 
 Mokshesh said that after much deliberation, the decision to allow him to become a monk was taken in January this year.
 
 Since then, the family has organised shobha yatras for Mokshesh at 15 locations in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka. His 85-year old grandfather was also inspired to join him but the senior monks asked him to serve the community while remaining in society.
 
 
 12-yr-old boy takes diksha
 
 Surat: A 12-year-old boy, who is the son of a diamond trader, took diksha at Ratan Park in Umra area of the city on Thursday. Bhagya Dipesh Shah was given diksha by Daneswari Gunaratna Suriswar Maharaj. Six others will also take diksha from the Jain saint on April 25 at Rampavan Bhumi in the city, which will make it a record 400 dikshas for him. The initiation rite of Bhagya Dipesh Shah was attended by his parents Dipesh and Pika Shah and hundreds of others.
 
