It has been around five months now that 28-year-old   has been cycling non-stop across India. This   resident, along with   from  , is all set to create a   by pedalling 20,000 kilometres. No mean feat that. But the fact that she is a national-level athlete, cyclist, rugby player, international karate fighter and mountaineer, makes breaking the world record seems achievable. Her co-cyclist, on the other hand, is a mechanical engineer and national badminton champion for three years. 

 
 Around the time of writing this article, the duo had already covered 15,500 kilometers. Says Bhagyashree, “The current world record is 15,300 kilometers, but we want to set the standards really high by aiming for 20,000 kms. A lot of my friends are affected by polio, which can affect children at a developmental age between one to five years. I have seen the challenges they face. India is polio-free right now, but I don’t want the virus to come back. Since   and I are creating awareness about this on a preventative level, we decided to criss-cross our route to reach to the remotest parts of the country. Last year, Pawan cycled from Delhi to Khardung La in just 14 days and that’s what motivated me to do something similar for this cause.
 
 
 It took the team over a year to plan the entire six-month journey, which began in October last year. A lot of science and calculations have gone into chalking out the travel plans, keeping in mind the distances, the weather of a particular region, wind speed, elevation and more. The journey has been planned in such a way that after every 150 kilometres of travel, they end up in a   for the night. Bhagyashree explains, “If there is no club en route, the previous club packs breakfast or lunch for us.” More than covering distance within a certain time, it is about travelling from point A to point B. “We have to reach a certain point as per the plan. Be it broad daylight or dark, we have no option to escape or divert from the plan. It depends on distance, road and wind direction (a major challenge). Our average speed of cycling is around 20 kmph to 25 kmph When there are strong head winds, which push us back, our average speed drops from 12 kmph to 13 kmph,” explains the cyclist. 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The cyclist duo have had to face numerous punctures daily, which would set their target back by kilometres. “With 150 kms to ride in a single day, we’d face punctures and find ourselves back by 10 kms. Since Pawan is a mechanical engineer, he is always on his toes to fix the problems instantly. Climate changes posed another challenge. When we started cycling from the northern part of the country, it was winter. Now that we are in the Southern part, it is getting difficult as the summer heat is at its peak,” she says. 
 
 Cycling at 20-25 kmph for over 100 kilometres leads to extreme dehydration, which results in muscle cramps. Bhagyashree says, “In the initial two to three days, we got cramps due to excess travel and less water intake. So, we began to make sure that each one of us consumes at least 10 litres of water daily to prevent dehydration. With so much sweating everyday, we burn around 3,000 to 4,000 calories per day.” 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 Among the bright spots of their journey are the experiences with the locals that they cherish. Bhagyashree, a psychology researcher who has won a young scientist award, shares that her interaction with people from small towns and villages is the best part of the journey. In the last five months, she has been visiting a lot of schools, where she has spoken to children about cleanliness, hygiene and literacy. 
 
 
 In such long journeys, safety issues are always cropping up. And that is what led to this entire ride being supported by a SUV company. “A jeep convoy, which doubled up as a safety vehicle tailed them wherever they went. If an emergency situation arose, we call the vehicle to come closer. Except for a few places, the entire nation is safe to cycle. The vehicle contains spare parts, luggage and a driver. 
 
 Since it is a non-profit organisation, there is no monetary support. “The only funds we need are for the car fuel and the toll because the rest of the things are taken care by the Rotary Club. The automobile company is taking care of everything to do with the car,” she signs off.
 
 
 
 
