KOLKATA: In a late evening drive on Thursday, machines pulled down four of the six buildings that had encroached on the New Garia-Airport   line. The remaining two have a temporary breather — one has moved   while the other has moved the Land Reforms Tenancy Tribunal. A seventh building — a school — was relocated and the premises handed over to Metro authorities over a year ago.

 Though there have been demolitions in the past along Metro lines, this is the first time that buildings that were constructed recently are facing the hammer. At least three of the seven buildings were hastily constructed after the alignment was notified. A route realignment proposal was ruled out in Janaury 2016, effectively sealing the fate of these buildings. But the administration’s reluctance against forced eviction saw the demolition being delayed for two years. 
  
 
 Occupants of the three twostorey buildings had started moving out on Wednesday morning. By Thursday, they had voluntarily left the premises after salvaging the valuables. The fourth building, a fourstorey hotel, also emptied out on Thursday morning.
 
 But hotel owner Balaram Chowdhury alleged coercion by a group of unidentified men who ransacked the building on Wednesday night and threatened the hotel staff of dire consequences if they didn’t leave the property.
 
 “Prior to the eviction drive, 30 men robbed Rs 12 lakh and took away an LED TV and   cameras from the hotel,” said Arun Mishra, the administrative officer of Blue Orchid.
 
 The allegation though was drowned in the voices in support of the demolition drive.
 
 While the two-storey buildings were nearly razed to the ground by the time the operation ended on Thursday night, a pneumatic drill hammered through the roofs and floors of the four-storey building. The demolition activity is slated to continue over the next three-four days.
 
 RVNL executive director Rajesh prasad said: “We thank the state government, transport secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay and   mayor   for freeing up the land.”
 
