CHANDIGARH: Aiming to deliver healthcare services to patients at their doorsteps, the   government will become the first state in the country to launch 2,950 health   across the state in a phased manner. Of these, 240 such centres would start by this year end.

 Sharing his plans with media persons, Punjab health minister Brahm   on Thursday said in first phase, 240 such centres would open this year in Fazilka, Pathankot and Patiala districts. Staff nurses, with specially imparted six month training from IGNOU, would be community health officers in these wellness centres, he added.
 
 Mohindra said medical officer from nearby community health centre or primary health centre would visit wellness centres bi-weekly for OPD services and Rs 17 lakh would be spent on operationalizing each centre.
 
 The state government has decided to set up medical college and hospital in   and its construction work would be initiated by the year end, said Mohindra.
 
 The health minister announced that 50 new ambulances, including five advanced life-saving ambulances equipped with critical life-saving equipment, would also be rolled out soon. He said as many as 242 ambulances, connected with ‘108’ call centre, had already been deputed at strategic places. “We are ensuring that emergency ambulances reach the place within 20 minutes in urban areas and within 30 minutes in rural areas,” said Mohindra.
 
 The health department, under Mukhya Mantri Jan Aoushadhi Yojna, also has plans to start medicine shops at 22 district hospitals, 41 sub-division hospitals and in three medical colleges of the state to provide generic medicines at affordable rates.
 
 Mohindra said looking at the need to establish more trauma centres for extending crucial life-saving health care to the injured during critical hours, the health department has decided to set up five trauma centres across the state along the national and state highways.
 
 To ensure the punctuality of medical officers and other medical as well as paramedical staff, the health department has also decided to install biometric attendance system in all government hospitals. The minister further said his department has decided to establish two 50-bedded hospitals at Moga and Zirakpur.
 
 The health minister also claimed that Punjab is the only state in the country to have rolled out e-raktkosh in all 45 government blood banks for easy public access to blood availability status as per blood group, blood bank and districts. “Information could be obtained by logging in at e-raktkosh.in or by downloading e-raktkosh mobile app from google play store. In the next phase, all 59 private blood banks of Punjab shall be linked with e-raktkosh application software,” he said.
 
 Universal health insurance scheme to facilitate tertiary health care services
 
 A 1,000 days care scheme for mother and child to be launched this year
 
 Advanced dental treatment, including dental implant to be started in all district hospitals
 
 Outpatient opioid assisted treatment (OOAT) programme to start in all districts to provide free medicines to drug addict patients
 
 Free dialysis services started in all district hospitals, sub divisional hospitals at Kotkapura, Abohar, Batala, Dasuya and Phagwara, and   and in 3 medical college and hospitals.
 
 Punjab aims to eradicate TB by 2022
 
 
