A 60-year-old woman was mauled to death by a couple of pet dogs in Wayanad recently, both Rottweilers, which belonged to a neighbour. The dogs had escaped while the owner and family were away, and attacked the woman, a tea estate worker on her way to the plantation. Last month, a Chennai woman was killed similarly by Rottweilers which belonged to her son, when she went up to their terrace, unaware that the dogs were let loose there. Understandably, a certain amount of panic and fear have spread among the public with regard to Rottweilers, a common breed in Kerala, though expensive. Is the   such a killer as it is projected to be? What can owners do to keep themselves and the public safe while keeping one as pet? We explore.

 While it is rumoured that Rottweilers are aggressive by nature, dog experts say that it depends entirely on how they are raised by their owners. “A badly socialised or caged Terrier or Dachshund or Pomeranian will be as aggressive as a Rottweiler. But the Rottweiler has immensely strong jaw muscles and is a powerful animal. And so the harm they cause is several times more and it gets talked about widely,” says Dr Sushma Prabhu, who has worked with dogs for two decades. The same applies to other strong breeds like the Doberman, German Shepherd and the less common  , she says.
 
 And while it is often said that Rottweilers are single master dogs, those who actually have one at home beg to differ. The misconception might have arisen from the fact that since Rottweilers are huge, some of the members in a family might be scared of it, according to Anupama, a homemaker from Kochi who owns a huge Rott, named Handsome. “There seems to be some kind of a hype built around the Rottweiler, that it is a beast which is much more than a dog. But in my experience, they are no different from other breeds. The one I have is a gentle giant. He loves all of us in the family,” she says. “The problem arises when people keep them like a showpiece. If you don’t show them love and affection, they can be dangerous. It’s basically like bringing up a child. It will grow up into whatever you raise it to be.” The only problem with Handsome is that he is so strong that when he jumps on someone in affection, it may cause them to fall, according to Anupama.
 
 The answer, thus, is to socialise the dog from a very early age, so that it gets used to people. “As with any other dog, the first three years of a dog’s life decides its temperament. Mostly, dogs that are kept in cages all the time or tied up tend to be aggressive as they are unused to human contact,” says  , an animal lover. “In Kerala, people have a tendency to cage their dogs 24/7. They are told that the dogs will become ‘friendly and useless’ otherwise. Dogs are basically companion animals. Let the dog grow up with everyone in the family, especially the children.”’
 
 Also, choose a dog according to your requirements and the facilities you have, says Dr Sushma. “Every dog needs exercise. If you have a small house and a small compound, go for a small breed dog who will get enough exercise running around in that space. Big dogs can bite because their energy is not expended and they are bored. Go for a big breed only if you have a large property which is enclosed as well. They also need able bodied people to look after them. The cost of feeding is high. If you don’t meet these requirements, don’t get a big dog.”
 And what if you want your dog to be aggressive, and be a guard dog? “Even such a dog needs the love and trust of its owners but it can be trained to be aggressive around strangers. In such instances, keep it only inside an enclosed property. Never let it leave the property unless under the control of the owner,” says Sally. “There can be a clear signage at the gate about the dog so that visitors are not caught unawares. With regard to the Wayanad incident, the owner is totally responsible, for sure.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Reality: Any dog can be aggressive; bigger dogs only cause more harm when they bite
 
 
 Reality: It will only make it hungry and barking all the time
 
 
 Reality: They can be gentle, loving and make good pets if they are brought up with love and affection
 
 
 
 
 
 
