NAVI MUMBAI: Acting on a local activist’s tip off about   near  , Panvel taluka officials carried out a   in the wee hours of Wednesday.

 
  
 
 “As soon as we received specific information about illegal sand mining at Waghivali, I formed a special team and arranged for a JCB for the raid,” Panvel tehsildar Deepak Akade told TOI. “The labourers fled on spotting the raiding team. We later destroyed all the sand stored in sacks.”
 
 On Tuesday, TOI had reported about the revival of illegal sand mining in Panvel taluka. The activist had told TOI, “There were six boats loaded with suction pumps for illegal sand-mining in Vaghivali on Sunday. We have taken longshot pictures across the creek and intimated the authorities about it. This must be stopped.” Sources said that the wet sand illegally collected is transported nearby, from where it is taken in vehicles to be sold at construction sites.
 
 Akade said they will now try to identify the kingpins. “In the last two to three years, we have undertaken several raids against sand mining, which led to a lull in this illegal trade. However, since the media and activists informed us about resumption of sand mining at Waghivali, we decided to move quickly to send out a message that the law enforcement is serious about plugging this illegal activity.”
 
 But activists are not convinced. “I feel that the officials can be much more effective if they constantly monitor and patrol all sensitive creeks and coasts where sand mining is done using powerful suction pumps,” said activist Anarjit Chauhan. “Apart from seizing the machines, the culprits should be arrested and booked under stringent laws like MCOCA, Environment Protection Act, National Biodiversity Act and under the contempt of high court orders (for the illegal use of suction pumps) to serve as a deterrent.”
 
 He added, “Also, if any district or tehsil official refuses to act against illegal sand mining despite being intimated, the state government must take strong action against them too.”
 
 Meanwhile, a TOI reader from Raigad district has also urged the district officials to check on illegal sand mining taking place at beaches near Alibaug and other coastal places. “I have also intimated Raigad district collector Vijay Suryawanshi that there should be a zero tolerance policy against illegal sand mining,” said Chauhan.
 
 Activists also pointed that high court orders have clearly stated that the state district officials are responsible for stopping illegal sand mining.
 
