NEW DELHI: From childhood, we are often told that ‘laughter is the best medicine’. But do all kinds of laughter have identical medicinal effect? Different kinds of laughter convey myriad emotions of the person laughing — joy, derision, loyalty, disgust, sarcasm and sometimes the intent to scare.

 Proverb 17 of the Old Testament conveys that laughter which generates merry feeling is best suited for the heart. Laughter ordinarily cures negativity, relaxes, reduces stress and makes us positive.
 
 Possibly, that is the reason why we have so many ‘laughter clubs’ across India, registered and unregistered, which unintentionally wake up many at the crack of dawn when its health conscious members let out uproarious synchronised laughs.
 
 If laughter is capable of sowing priceless health attributes in body and mind, why did a hearty laugh by 63-year-old MP Renuka Chowdhury in Rajya Sabha, apparently triggered by 67-year-old PM Narendra Modi’s claim on origin of Aadhaar, evoke such unhealthy reactions?
 
 A visibly annoyed 68-yea-rold Rajya Sabha Chairman M   advised Chowdhury to consult a doctor, deciphering from the laughter’s tone that she probably had some health issues. The laugh had a different effect on the PM, who turned spiritual and remembered Ramayana. Since then, the laugh has become a bitter debating point among rival political parties.
 
 On the third sitting of the Constituent Assembly on December 11, 1946, temporary chairman Sachidananda Sinha
 
 had invited Sarojini Naidu to speak on a proposal to choose   as president of the Constituent Assembly.
 
 It evoked hearty laughter from members when Sinha invited Naidu in this manner, “I shall now request Bulbul-i-Hind, the Nightingale of India, to address the House not in prose but in poetry.”
 
 Naidu did recite Kashmiri poetry but not before recording her light-hearted protest against Sinha’s manner of invitation. She said, “Mr chairman, the manner of your calling me is not constitutional.”
 
 Laughter has been part of debates in Parliament right from the   days. But laughter has always been scarce in the judiciary, especially in the Supreme Court. Ever since the unprecedented press conference of four senior judges, laughter and light banter have got further muffled.
 
 One hilarious incident in the SC, often narrated by senior advocate Sanjay Hegde involving his senior G Ramaswamy, goes this way. During the hearing of a sensitive case, the judges on the bench objected to Ramaswamy’s line of argument thinking he was taking them for a ride. One judge asked, “You think we are fools sitting here?” Ramaswamy replied, “If I say yes, it is contempt; if I say no, then it is perjury.” The judges and the audience had a hearty laugh.
 
 Jay D Wexler, a professor at   School of Law, had conducted an innovative research on US Supreme Court judges with a sense of humour. Scanning through official court records on oral arguments since 2005, he found that Justice Antonin Scalia’s observations in the courtroom had made the audience laugh the maximum number of times. The US Supreme Court lost this humorous and respected judge to time in 2016.
 
 Justice   could possibly come closest to Justice Scalia in terms of evoking laughter in the courtroom. For the Allahabad High Court, Kannauj magistrate Gyanendra Kumar recently compiled 100 incidents in the judiciary which could tickle even the stiffest upper lip in the black and white world of judges and advocates.
 
 One of them tells us this. In the 1930s, Sir Wazir Hasan was arguing an appeal in Allahabad HC before a bench of Chief Justice Shah Muhammad Sulaiman (the first Indian CJ of the HC) and Justice Bennet. Hasan made a mistake in calculation of ‘mesne profits’ and was instantly corrected by Justice Bennet, who commented, “When I came to India, I little thought that I shall have to teach elementary arithmetic to members of the bar.” Hasan came up with a gem of a reply, “I am obliged to your lordship for correcting my figures; but when we teach your lordship a little law, your lordship should not mind teaching us a little arithmetic.”
 
 One can only pray that laughter comes back to the upper tier of judiciary, reeling under suspicion, mistrust and lack of communication. One would also pray that laughter in Parliament is taken in a spirit that is healthy and not bitter.
 
