NAGPUR: The departmental enquiry committee investing the issue of alleged ‘bribe’ taken by a resident doctor and a lecturer in the eye department at the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has not found either of them guilty of the offence.

 The committee headed by Dr Raj Gajbhiye, the surgery head, also toed the stand taken by the College Council, and gave clean chit to the two doctors who were trapped by Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths while taking Rs 3000 for buying an Avastin injection not available in the eye department. The committee submitted its report after a five-day investigation on Monday to the college dean.
 
 “The report will be submitted to the directorate of medical education and research (DMER). I cannot take any action at my level. Hence the report will be submitted to Dr Pravin Shingare, the DMER chief,” said the college dean Dr A Niswade.
 
 He said that though the enquiry committee has not found the junior resident and the lecturer trapped by ACB guilty of taking any bribe, the two did take the money for the injection as per the procedure being followed in the ophthalmology department. They needed to maintain documentary proof of the money being taken for the injections. “Here on it should be made a rule that all documents related with the purchase of medicines not available through rate contract in GMCH will be maintained. The patient or the relative handing over the money should sign the register,” said the dean.
 
 The DMER chief Dr Shingare told TOI that after the report reaches him he would try to evolve a common policy to handle the issue of prescribing medicine not available on rate contract. “There are many medicines not available on rate contract. Hence when a government doctor is prescribing any medicine he need to follow a procedure which will be laid down by the medical education department,” he said.
 
 The enquiry team besides Dr Gajbhiye included Dr Y B Bansod, professor and head of medicine department, Dr R Gosavi, the medical superintendent.
 
 
