Today, when I look back in time, I can see that I have changed a lot in these five years. And these changes are not limited to just a few things. I am particularly happy about one change—the transformation of my perception and feelings for this flurry, floppy-eared animal. And today, I can call myself a proud pet owner.

 
 On a particular day some five years back, I first saw him and found myself being pulled by those puppy dog eyes. It was a wonderful summer evening, and I was taking my usual walk in the park. There I saw this playful little dog huddled close to his siblings. As I went closer, he was filled with joy and started wagging his tail and I could not resist adoring him. But at the same time, I was afraid that his mother might consider me a danger for her little  . Immediately, I jumped back and pulled my hand and started looking around for the big one.
 
 
 It seemed to me as if she has gone in search of food. By that time all the pups had surrounded me and I never wanted to leave their sight, as we were sharing a lovely playful moment. After that first meeting, I could hardly wait to greet my new companions and feed them biscuits and bread every evening. One day, someone from the neighbourhood told me that their mother died while giving birth to them. After hearing this, I felt very sad and cried for hours.
 
 
 
 Next day, as usual, I went to greet my little friends. But to my surprise, I couldn't find them. The count has been reduced from four to only one. I looked around but could not find any other puppy except the one in front of me. I tried hard, but failed to find the family. I decided to call my father, who was sipping his usual evening tea at home. My   came and saw me holding the little creature in my arms. As soon as he saw the little one, I asked my father in the most innocent manner, 'Dad, can we keep him'?
 
 
 
 Feeling doubtful, he took a while, then firmly replied, 'Yes, of course!'
 
 
 That was the moment we decided to adopt him, and make him a part of our family. Little did I knew that this good deed will give me a companion for a lifetime. My dog ‘Cheeku’ now has the most loving family in the world. His arrival was not a joyous moment for my mother, as she was afraid of dogs because of some horrible past incidents. It took her some time to understand that this new family member has become an inseparable part of my life. I still remember the day he played in a mischievous way and very smartly hid himself under the table. When he rolled out of his hiding area, he seemed to look like the most adorable creature on this earth. We grew up together and there was no end to the adventures we had together like sleeping on the couch, running around, chasing butterflies and greeting each other after a tough day.
 
 
 Being a pet parent changes you a lot. From those never ending long walks to the infinite hearty conversations, your four-legged furry friend teaches you a lot about love and life. After all, nothing can beat the joy of meeting a happy dog face, who cannot wait to greet you at the end of a hard-working day. Your canine partner makes for the best buddy to have around. From this soul-stirring incident, I learned that when you actually adopt a puppy you may not realise how your life will change for the good and you can't imagine living any other way after that. Believe it or not, life is beautiful when you have a four-legged fur ball for a best friend!
 
 
 By Simran Kathuria
 
 
