BENGALURU: With a pass percentage of 51.9% in SSLC examinations, 32 high schools in the city run by the   (BBMP) have improved their last year’s percentage by 11%. However, this number is still 23% lower than the average score of government schools across the state.

 
 While bigger schools like CGHS Cleveland Town and CHS Herohalli scored a pass percentage of 75%, smaller ones like CHS Shanti Nagar and CHS Chamrajpet managed a mere 15%.
 
 S G Raveendra, special commissioner (education), BBMP, attributed the 11% increase to students getting their textbooks on time. “In the previous year, students got their books late due to the time-consuming tender process,” he said. According to Raveendra, the main reason for the overall low performance is lack of permanent teachers. Only 250-300 of the 884 sanctioned posts have been filled.
 
 “I had asked the department to draft a list of students who scored less than 50% in the mid-term exams, so that we could arrange for extra coaching from private school teachers. Despite having made this request in 2016, and again last year, nothing has been done. Also, many are children of migrants, and from states like Odisha and Assam, so there’s a language issue,” he added.
 
 The worst-performing school is CBHS Srirampura located in the basement of a BBMP office in Malleswaram. All six boys, who appeared for the exam from the three-classroom school, have failed in English. “Since this is a Kannada-medium school, we don’t have many students. We have one teacher for social science and English, one for Kannada, one for Hindi, and one for maths, with science being adjusted among all of us. We held special classes, but the students were not interested. In fact, they were unruly, and many teachers left because of this,” Anjanappa R, principal, said.
 
 CHS Cox Town, which is co-educational, didn’t do much better, with only 2 of its 22 students clearing the exam. “Most of our students come from slums and even work in houses. We have no permanent teachers at all. Most of the outsourced ones do not stay long as they are paid on a regular basis. Some of them even work at multiple schools,” said Venkatarayappa who was the principal till recently.
 
 
