BHOPAL:  , New Delhi, will soon be seen providing   to   (centre) at six new AIIMS.

 The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) has decided to provide impetus to hospitals and research in six new medical institutes modelled on the lines of  , New Delhi.
 
 To begin with, the head of cardio thoracic and vascular surgery (CTVS) centre of AIIMS, New Delhi, Professor Dr Balram Airan will now mentor cardiology units in six new AIIMS across the country - Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Jodhpur, Patna, Raipur and Rishikesh.
 
 “We are in the process of identifying more specialists from AIIMS, New Delhi, and PGIs who would assist in six new AIIMS as mentors. There would be sharing of best practices, knowledge and develop a vibrant interlink,” said   (PMSSY) joint secretary, Sunil Sharma. Neurology, oncology, trauma and emergency care among other specialists are likely to follow Dr Airan’s footsteps.
 
 Six years after these institutes were set up, hospital services are yet to be at par with local tertiary care hospitals.
 
 Specialists will not only provide guidance in research and development, but also demonstrate medical procedures, which would benefit patients, he added.
 
 “Doctors from the new institutes will also benefit from visiting faculty of AIIMS, New Delhi. Some of the doctors have been associated with specialists from AIIMS, New Delhi in the past,” said AIIMS, Raipur, director, Dr Nitin Nagarkar.
 
 He also holds the dual charge of AIIMS, Bhopal, where the cardiology unit is headed by assistant professor Dr Gaurav Khandelwal and cardiothoracic surgery is headed by assistant professor Dr Yogesh Kumar Niwariya.
 
 “It would not be restricted to clinical specialists,” he said.
 
 Since 2012, over a dozen specialists, who had joined AIIMS, Bhopal, later resigned from the institute. Lack of infrastructure and delay was cited as one of the primary reasons.
 
 Currently, each of the six new AIIMS has an estimated 400 plus hospital bed and post-graduate courses in various departments.
 
 
