Kolkata: After hair-splitting for months to decide that defeating the saffron agenda is of utmost priority, CPM bigwigs get ready to fine-tune the contours of this anti-BJP stance at the party’s Central Committee meeting that kicks off in the city on Friday.

 The meet is crucial because it focuses on the draft political resolution for CPM’s 22nd party congress in Hyderabad in April, which will act as a guideline for the party’s tactic in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 There has been a climb-down among factions led by CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury and his predecessor and politburo member Prakash Karat, with both agreeing to carve out an alternative policy platform against BJP’s agenda instead of striving for an all-in-one opposition unity against BJP. But, the differences remain hard to be thrashed out in one meeting.
 
 Karat, editor of CPM’s weekly organ People’s Democracy, has ruled out any platform with Congress leading it. “The other reason why an all-in-one opposition unity is not feasible is because it has to include Congress and being the biggest opposition party, it would be heading it,” Karat wrote in an editorial in August.
 
 The Bengal lobby, on the other hand, has also stopped short of naming Congress, but it sees this alternative platform similar to the common minimum programme devised between Left and Congress to offer support to the Congress-led government in 2004.
 
 Even as some CC members from Bengal felt it would be too early to finalise the alternative policy framework with more than a year to go for Lok Sabha polls, Karat loyalists saw little scope of having an agreement with Congress on the economic front because both Congress and BJP are pursuing the same neo-liberal policies.
 
 “Look at the present crisis in the banking sector. Non-performing assets (NPAs) have been rising in banks, particularly in nationalised banks since 2008, due to faulty policies of the preceding Congress government. BJP is taking it forward,” a CPM leader from Kerala said. He also pointed to the large-scale disinvestment plans for profit-making CPSUs since the Congress regime.
 
 Members from Bengal didn’t discount the view but held that BJP’s onslaught is all encompassing, from “economy to social sphere and from academics to the country’s own pluralistic culture”. A central committee member from Bengal held that there are still some economic issues amid this neo-liberal paradigm in which the Left can arrive at an agreement with other democratic and secular parties. He recalled Georgi Dimitrov’s United Front tactics against Fascist offensive.
 
 As things stand now, Kerala CPM — the most powerful lobby at present — is opposed to having any truck with Congress, while Tripura chief minister Manik Sarkar has softened his anti-Congress stance after coming under pressure from BJP in the state. Bengal CPM, pushed to the wall, wants an early decision to send signals to Congress before it is too late.
 
 
