In the latest episode of  , Ranbir wakes up and regains his consciousness in the hospital. His parents ask him not to stress and tell him that whenever he is around girls, he faints. Ranbir gets embarrassed. The doctor comes and tells Ranbir that he needs to get his brain mapping done to find out what caused the injury.

 
 Later, the reports come. The doctor informs them that Ranbir's case is very rare and it is something he had never seen before. The doctor tells them about Ranbir's last birth and him calling for Tanuja in his sleep. They all get shocked hearing this. Ranbir wonders what is happening with him.
 
 The doctor explains to Ranbir and his parents about his condition and says that Ranbir was unable to unite with a girl he loved in his last birth, so, whenever he tries to get close to other women in his new birth, he faints. Ranbir gets angry at the doctor for joking with him and leaves the room. Ranbir's dad apologises to the doctor and asks him further details about his rebirth.
 
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, Tanuja is seen getting ready for her cousin's wedding. Her friends compliment her and say that she looks beautiful.
 
 Akki laughs at the doctor's claims and makes fun of Ranbir. An angry Ranbir asks him to mind his business and not pester him about the doctor's false claims. Akki changes the topic and asks Ranbir what does he look for in a girl.
 
 As they walk, a firefly hovers and sits on Ranbir's head. At the same time, a firefly sits on Tanuja's hand. Tanuja gets happy seeing the firefly and makes a wish. Meanwhile, the firefly hovers and moves away from Ranbir. As Akki tries to stop it, Ranbir asks him to let it fly and tells him something about true love, which makes Akki fall in the pool.
 
 Tanuja's cousin Mayu asks her if she loves someone. Tanuja refuses to answer and says that she was waiting for someone special to arrive and adds that they will stay together all through their lives. Tanuja tells them that when the time was right, she will know who the person was. 
 
 
