For   and  , the couple from  , kite flying is like meditation. “It’s when one forgets about life and concentrates solely on flying the kite high into the sky,” they say. With the International Kite Festival just over and Hyderabadis still well in its hangover, Hyderabad Times caught up with the ‘Kite Couple’ who not only fell in love while flying kites but has also travelled the world together for over 20 years all for the love of kites. In a candid chat on the sidelines of the festival, the couple spoke about how flying kites got them together, rise of kite festivals in India and why they don’t encourage kite fights. Excerpts:

 
 
 For both of us, kite flying is a passion. In fact, we fell in love after we worked together organising a few kite festivals in Thailand. Ron, came to Thailand as a graphic designer and was intrigued by the paper-bamboo kites and began working on the same. Sometime during all of that, we both realised, ‘Hey we are made for each other. So why not be together?’ From then on our life has been about working, travelling and flying kites together. And soon we came to be known as the ‘Kite Couple’. 
 
 
 
 We have the 30-meter-long octopus, spinners, tail kites, and the red bouncing balls which stay on the ground and don’t really need a lot of air. They are also called the durian balls after the Asian fruit by the same name; so people call us the ‘durian kite couple’. We don’t encourage kite fights like they do in India. They are quite dangerous, you see, both for the environment as well as the participants.
 
 
 
 Flying kites has helped us strengthening our bond. Else traditionally, the man plays golf and the woman stays at home waiting and then nobody is happy. Kite flying is about collaborations and the community. My message for the people would be — take your grandparents and grandchildren, in fact, the whole family out and fly kites together in the open grounds, in fresh air with a fresh mind. And then you will be creating so many memories. So many people come up to us, especially from India, recounting their childhood, saying ‘you know, when I was 10 I flew kites with my grandfather’ and here they are, 30 years old but remembering those memories because that’s how involving the sport is. In fact, our own bond benefited from the same.
 
 
 
 They are growing better every year. We have been to India about six times now and to China some 30 times. India can benefit from these festivals because they are known to be good for tourism and entice high-profile participants. They also get everyone hooked on to social media. India could probably also look into it from the heritage aspect. When we started out in Thailand about 30 years ago, we focused on the kite masters as the kite culture is rich in Thailand. It’s paper-bamboo kites are very different from anywhere else in the world. And there is so much history and expertise to these traditional kites which are not known to the world. We thought, how can we be of help and so we made the Thai  , where we got kite masters and took them abroad for exhibitions and shows. The tradition then began to get its due respect both overseas and in Thai villages.
 
 
 We all need some alone time for self-introspection. People usually think they are all by themselves but in reality, are busy with their phones when alone. Kite flying is like meditation where you focus just to keep the kite flying and soon around 3 hours would go by and you would be like ‘Woah! I did not look at my phone, I didn’t do anything. I did not worry about my family, my spouse or work’. So, yes, one can communicate with oneself while flying a kite.
 
