Navi Mumbai:  , the three-year-old male sub-adult  , who had gained popularity last year for walking 135km from Katlabodi in Nagpur to Pohra-Malkhed on the fringes of   city is reportedly missing for the past four months. 

 Nature & Wildlife Conservation Trust has now written to the top state forest officials over the disappearance and alleged that Nawab might have been   and   “due to laxity of local forest officials”.
 
 
  
 
 When TOI contacted Amravati’s chief conservator of forests (territorial) Praveen Chavan, he said, “I have initiated an inquiry into the disppearance upon receiving a complaint letter. The letter also makes serious allegations against some local forest officials. The fact is that the tiger, Nawab, was not fitted with a radio collar. Last year, it was forest camera traps that had clicked photos of this tiger who had walked a long distance from Katlabodi to Pohra.”
 
 Wildlife activist Hemant Chhajed told TOI: “Nawab was last seen and photographed by the media in November 2017 in Pohra. After that, he simply vanished from the face of the earth. Sources close to the complainant have informed us that the tiger was electrocuted. It now has to be seen how effectively the forest inquiry is conducted on this matter, since it is alleged in the same complaint letter that some local forest officials may have had a role to play in the disappearance of Nawab.”
 
 The missing tiger’s official identity is KKFR-4. “After becoming a sub-adult, Nawab started on his migratory path for natural dispersal, as male tigers often do, to reach Pohra forest region in early 2017. We demand a thorough inquiry into the case. In the past, even radio-collared tigers have been killed,” said Chhajed.
 
 Mumbai-based environmentalist D Stalin said, “In July 2016, another popular tiger called Jai (named after Amitabh Bachchan’s character in the film ‘Sholay’) reportedly vanished from a wildlife sanctuary in Nagpur. Even an offspring of Jai called Srinivas, who was radio-collared, was found electrocuted in Chandrapur forest in April 2017.”
 
 Experts said the last countrywide tiger census was done in 2014, when the total tigers in India stood at 2,226 or 60% of the world's tiger strength. Honorary wildlife warden Sunish Subramanian said, “We recently urged the state to ensure that the database of wildlife poachers and criminals is shared by both the forest and law enforcement officers.”
 
 
