Mumbai: Aiming to bring in more investors to trade on its platform, the   on Monday said it will not charge any fee for   in the 30 blue chips that constitute the sensex index. 

 This will be effective from March 12. Investors, however, will have to pay brokerage, regulatory and government charges.
 
 Currently, BSE’s transaction charges range between 50 paise and Rs 1.5 per trade for securities under the exchange’s groups A and B, and other non-exclusive scrips, the bourse’s website showed. Of the 5,053 stocks listed on the BSE, there are 391 stocks in Group A — which also includes the sensex’s 30 stocks — and 1,115 stocks in Group B.
 
 “In order to facilitate and encourage participation by retail investors in financially sound companies and in partial modification to a (June 30, 2017) notice, trading members may note that the transaction charges for securities, which are part of the S&P BSE Sensex 30 Index, shall be waived off with effect from March 12, 2018,” the exchange said in a notice. “...there shall be no other change related to transaction charges in equity segment,” the notice added.
 
 
 
  
 
 Currently, each BSE broker pays a fee to the exchange for executing a trade on behalf of their clients. For up to 1 lakh trades per month, brokers have to pay Rs 1.5 per trade to BSE, while they pay Rs 1.25 per trade if their monthly trade count exceeds 1 lakh but is less than 3 lakh trades. Again, if the monthly trade count exceeds 3 lakh, brokers pay Re 1 per trade till it reaches 5 lakh, 75 paise per trade if it exceeds 5 lakh but is less than 20 lakh. And if the monthly count exceeds 20 lakh, for every trade the broker pays a transaction fee of 50 paise per trade.
 
 The 30 sensex stocks on which investors will not pay any fees from March 12 are Adani Ports, Asian Paints,  , Bajaj Auto, Bharti Airtel, Coal India, Dr Reddy’s Labs, HDFC, HDFC Bank, Hero MotoCorp, HUL, ICICI Bank, IndusInd Bank, Infosys, ITC,  , L&T, M&M, Maruti Suzuki, NTPC, ONGC,  , Reliance, SBI, Sun Pharma, Tata Motors, Tata Steel, TCS, Wipro and Yes Bank.
 
 
