LUCKNOW: The   probe into the disinvestment of 21 state-owned sugar mills during BSP regime could well be one of the biggest indictments for UP’s bureaucracy.

 The   report on the controversial sale of 21 sugar mills — which formed the basis for the Yogi government’s decision to recommend a CBI probe — had nailed over a dozen IAS officers, including two retired chief secretaries, for connivance and not applying due diligence in the sale, during the BSP rule in 2011, causing an estimated loss of Rs 2,000 crore to the state treasury. Top IAS officers who called the shots in BSP government formed core group on disinvestment.
 
  
  
 
 The CAG report, a copy of which is with TOI, found them involved in the selection of advisers, valuers, responsible for undervaluing land of the 21 sugar mills, plant and machinery, as well as tailoring policies for bidders and committing other irregularities causing unprecedented loss to the state.
 
 
 
 
 Acting on the CAG findings, chief minister Yogi Adityanath recommended a full-fledged inquiry into the sale of sugar mills. In fact, CBI inquiry of the sugar mills’ sale was BJP’s election promise and part of its poll manifesto.
 
 CAG’s voluminous report did not mention then chief minister Mayawati nor cabinet secretary late Shashank Shekhar Singh anywhere as the decision of privatizing the ‘loss making sugar mills’ was unanimously adopted at the cabinet meeting. The CAG also did not challenge the cabinet decision of disinvestment of sugar mills, but detected mass irregularities in its implementation.
 
 Majority of the IAS officers ranging from the then chief secretary, additional cabinet secretary and principal secretary dominated the three committees: core group of secretaries on disinvestment (CGD), consultative evaluation committee (CEC) and consultative monitoring committee (CMC) by virtue of the post they held in finance, planning, sugar cane, sugar and other departments.
 
 The CAG report had been submitted to the House during Akhilkesh Yadav government, but no action was taken on it. One of the two retired chief secretaries, who were in the CGD, has reportedly expressed wish to turn approver in the case.
 
 The CAG had criticized CGD for the frequent changes in eligibility criteria at the instance of bidders from time to time due to which three bidders remained in fray despite not meeting the net worth criteria. The report also blamed CGD for not analysing reasons as to how the bid prices for 11 mills were just above 50% of the expected price.
 
 The IAS officers in the CGD constituted by the state government on June 23, 2008, are likely to face heat in the coming days. They include then chief secretary, who was CGD chairman, while principal secretaries/ secretaries of finance, law, planning, public enterprises and disinvestment and industrial development commissioner were members.
 
