Marvel Studios’   is the culmination to an unprecedented cinematic journey. Ten years in the making, it promises to be the superhero spectacle audiences have been waiting for. With the excitement around the release going through the roof, Disney India, in a move to expand its localisation efforts, has signed on actor   to lend his voice for ' ' for the Telugu dubbed version of  : Infinity War.

 Apart from dubbing his voice for the famed villain, Rana also interacted with fans at a city mall and got into the skin of his character. He even posed for photographs wearing Avengers gear. 
 
  
  
 
 “This year marks a milestone for the Marvel Cinematic Universe as it turns 10 and to add to the excitement, we are releasing Avengers: Infinity War – the biggest Supehero crossover one has ever seen. There isn’t anything bigger, more exciting and thrilling in the superhero realm, with all the Avengers, The Guardians of the Galaxy and their allies coming together to defend the universe from Thanos, which itself proves just how powerful he is. Keeping with the anticipation around the movie, we are offering our fans in South India an opportunity to experience the grandeur of the movie in a language that they prefer. With Rana Daggubati coming on board as the voice of Thanos, we are confident of reaching out to a wider audience base while retaining the magnitude and staying true to the ethos of the Marvel brand,” said Bikram Duggal, Executive Director and Head, Studio Entertainment, Disney India.
 
  
  
 
 Actor Rana Daggubati, adds, “I've grown up reading Marvel Comics and Marvel movies with their intricately woven story lines have been some of my favourite movies to watch. It is fascinating to see how Marvel has created characters and stories that resonate so well with audiences across the globe, making movies at a scale that one had never before imagined. Characters such as Iron Man and   have been my favourites so dubbing for Avengers: Infinity War is a thrill! Voicing for Thanos, a villain so powerful that some of the biggest superheroes have a tough time dealing with, is an exciting experience!”
  
  
  
 
 Disney India had adopted a similar strategy for The Jungle Book in 2016, signing on a roster of A-List talent including Priyanka Chopra, Irrfan, Nana Patekar, Om Puri and Shefali Shah, to bring to life the famous characters in the Hindi version of Disney’s The Jungle Book. It was followed by roping in Varun Dhawan for Captain America in the movie Captain America Civil War. It wasn’t short of a casting coup! With a series of ground-breaking and unique localisation initiatives, these movies set new benchmarks and took over the box-office in India. 
 
  
  
 
 An unprecedented cinematic journey of 10 years in the making and spanning the entire Marvel Cinematic Universe, Marvel Studios’ Avengers: Infinity War promises to bring to the screen the ultimate, deadliest showdown of all time. The Avengers and their superhero allies must be willing to sacrifice all in an attempt to defeat the powerful Thanos before his blitz of devastation and ruin puts an end to the universe.
 
  
  
 
 Anthony and Joe Russo direct the film, which is produced by Kevin Feige. The movie stars Robert Downey Jr., Chris Evans, Mark Ruffalo, Scarlet Johansson, Chris Hemsworth, Josh Brolin, Tom Hiddleston, Jeremy Renner, Chris Pratt, Elizabeth Olsen, Sebastian Stan, Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Bettany, Cobie Smulders, Benedict Wong, Zoe Saldana, Karen Gillan, Vin Diesel, Dave Bautista, Bradley Cooper, Pom Klementieff, Peter Dinklage, Benicio del Toro, Tom Holland, Anthony Mackie, Chadwick Boseman, Danai Gurira, Paul Rudd, Don Cheadle, Letitia Wright, Winston Duke, Gwyneth Paltrow, Tessa Thompson and Angela Bassett, among others. 
  
  
  
 
 Marvel Studios’ Avengers: Infinity War is set to release in India on the 27th of April, 2018 in English, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu in 2D, 3D and IMAX 3D formats. 
 
 
  
 
