CHANDIGARH:   on Thursday suggested a special cess of 0.5% on those having more than Rs 5 lakh annual income with a view to creating a corpus for bailing out beleaguered farmers, besides using that amount for soil rejuvenation and tackling ground water depletion.

 At the pre-budget 2018-19 meeting held by Union finance minister   on Thursday, Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal said after the Centre introduced goods and sales tax (GST) and the   state government launched its farm debt waiver scheme, Punjab’s cash flow has taken a hit.
 
 Making a case for increasing the state’s net borrowing ceiling to enable the government to meet its committed liability, Manpreet also sought a go ahead for Punjab to swap the national social security fund (NSSF) loans with low cost market borrowing, as the rate of interest on the NSSF loans was on a higher side. He also sought monthly release of the GST compensation instead of every two months.
 
 The state FM also demanded an increase in the bank loan limit from Rs 1 lakh to Rs 2 lakh stating that livestock rearing and milk production was the source of livelihood for majority of the landless and poor people. The minister also sought special focus on animal husbandry sector by tripling the funding for small ruminants like piggery, goat, sheep and buffalo meat, with backyard poultry, fisheries and beekeeping.
 
 “The Centre should also pay 100% insurance premium for small ruminants for landless and small farmers,” he suggested.
 
 Meanwhile, highlighting the farm debt waiver scheme rolled out by the Punjab government, he sought an all India farm debt waiver scheme. Besides, restoration of the 90:10 funding pattern under the   (RKVY) to provide more avenues to the states to determine priorities in the agriculture sector, besides seeking Punjab’s inclusion under the special category for Border Area Development Programme.
 
 Manpreet said the Centre should release the share of central taxes on account of tax devolution of corporate tax and income tax on a monthly basis instead of four quarterly installments in 2018-19, to avert severe impact on development works in states, besides increasing fiscal stress.
 
 Punjab’s other demands
 
 Special grant of Rs 500 crore for celebrating 550th Prakash Utsav of Guru Nanak Dev
 
 Rs 100 crore should be provided for academic, research and museum projects
 
 Rs 100 crore for centenary of the   on April 13, 1919
 
 Special grant to line by studs and spurs in the rivers forming natural countries
 
 Special package for purchase of equipment to modernize police to counter terrorism
 
 Assistance for agriculture transformation project in Punjab at an estimated cost of Rs 1,750 crore for three years to push agriculture
 
 New agriculture insurance scheme with GIS
 
 National Horticulture University at Abohar
 
 Renaming national highway from Patiala to Paniyali (near Ropar) via Fatehgarh Sahib after Mata Gujri
 
 National highway from New Delhi to   via Amritsar in the coming Budget 2018
 
 
