MOHALI: Even though   chief minister issued orders to make   motorable by December 2017 Greater   Area Developmental Authority ( ) has jumped the deadline. Where things stand now, it does not look like the road will be opened to the public by March-end.

 Gmada chief administrator Ravi Bhagat said repair work on half of the   road, from airport crossing to Banur-Landran T-point, is at the final stage and it will be made operational by March-end. “Rain in the past few days have extended the completion schedule. One day of rain delays progress by a week. We are opening one side of the airport road leading to Banur-Landra t-point by end of March and the other half by April-end,” he said. 
 
 Work was to be completed by December last year, but it has been delayed by four months. Ravi Bhagat said, “The other half of the road is under repair and likely to be made operational by April. The road has been dug up at 40 to 50 places measuring 50 metres and around 3 feet deep to lay the foundation again before re-carpeting the road. At other places, potholes will be patched and cracks will be sealed as per the   and Highways (India) specifications and CRRI recommendations.”
 
 Built at a whopping Rs 15 crore cost under the Akali regime, the 200-ft wide road leading to the   in Mohali has claimed many lives, becoming virtually non-motorable in less than two years of construction. Recently, a youth died while negotiating potholes on the Airport road when the vehicle he was travelling in overturned. There have been many such accidents here. 
 
 Gmada closed the 6-km stretch of the Airport Road from Airport Chowk to Landran-Banur Road T-Point following a series of fatal accidents after finding the road beyond repair.
 
 One of the major projects undertaken by tainted former Gmada chief engineer Surinder Pal Singh, aka Pehalwan, the road is already at the centre of a technical investigation by the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI). Pehalwan is behind bars in cases of corruption and disproportionate assets.
 
 
