From being a day celebrated to thank the sun for bequeathing a bountiful harvest, Pongal festival celebrated in the Tamil month of Thai (January-February) is being considered as a festival to revive the tradition from fading into oblivion. While, the   Day festivities in Europe and   only date back to 16th century, the state’s own thanksgiving festival, Thai Pongal, is at least 2,000 years old, say archaeologists. Irrespective of the yield and ill effects of drought, farmers keep the tradition of celebrating Pongal with zeal. The festival is just two days away, and the public are on a shopping spree to celebrate Pongal the traditional way.

 Traditional attire for Pongal, dhoties, are now much in demand. Pointing out last year’s jallikattu protests held across the state ahead of Pongal, the student community says the stir had instilled in them a need to safeguard tradition. It is the youths, mostly college students, who are keen on buying dhoties across the textile outlets here. "Pongal is the only festival during which there is high demand for dhoties. Compared to the previous years, this time college students are coming in groups to purchase dhoties. At least 50% of the sales goes to the youths," A Shanmugaraj, manager in a private textile outlet said.
 
 Another item much in demand this year is organic cotton saris woven from organic cotton yarn procured without using pesticides and fertilisers. "Owing to the massive awareness and detest among people to avoid chemical fertilisers, organic saris made from natural extract dyes are much in demand," manager of Co-optex showroom in Trichy, K Anandamurugan told TOI.
 
 Not just clothes, craze among people to pursue the tradition in preparing Pongal dishes in traditional vessels is also picking up. Of late, families are preferring earthen pots as well bronze utensils to boil rice and moong dal. "In order to safeguard the tradition, elders of the family with their grandchildren buy earthen pots," a potter from Melachinthamani, A Rukmini said. Though the sale of traditional cloths and vessels has picked up, the demand for sugarcane, an indispensable part of Pongal, is going down. Unlike the previous years, the number of makeshift stalls selling sugarcane sticks has substantially come down.
 
 "People are buying a couple of sugarcane sticks just for the sake of prayers. The price of a bunch comprising 10 sticks has crossed Rs350. With such poor demand, we sell the sticks only on a day ahead of Pongal," K Saravanan, a sugarcane seller in   said. 
 
 The public and traders hail the recent jallikattu protests for infusing the importance of tradition among youths. With technology finding a place in routine life, and as culture tends to go through changes, traders who bank on such traditional festivals to make fortunes have pitched for the public to go traditional in celebrating Pongal. So that families of potters, weavers, and even a farmer would equally see some smile.
 
 
