 and 
 ’s   rumours have now turned a reality. The couple has officially announced 8th May as their D-day. While the preparations are in full swing, B-town celebs who are close to the family have been visiting Sonam’s residence. Recently,  , Anshula Kapoor,   and Maheep Kapoor were also snapped at Anil Kapoor’s house yesterday. This time around, actor   made a visit to meet the ‘bride-to-be’!

 Anupam Kher who happens to be a dear friend to  , took to his social media account to share an adorable video of Sonam Kapoor. The actor is seen congratulating the ‘
 ’ star who is grinning ear to ear. He captioned the video, “Bride to be. My dearest darling.” 
 
  
  
 As per recent reports, Anupam Kher will join the Kapoor family at the reception and also dance on special Bollywood songs. A magazine quoted a source saying that Sonam’s dad Anil Kapoor is ecstatic about his performance on Sonam and Anand’s sangeet. And reportedly, Anil will perform on two of his favourite numbers – ‘Gallan Goodiyan’ from ‘Dil Dhadakne Do’ and ‘My Name is Lakhan’ from ‘Ram Lakhan’. Moreover, there are chances of more fun if Satish Kaushik and Anupam Kher too join in the madness. 
 
 Earlier in an interview with a portal, Sonam had revealed the close friendship shared by Anil Kapoor and Anupam Kher. She reportedly professed that her dad is always hanging out with Anupam Kher. And that he often have dinner at his place. She also mentioned that her mom calls Anupam, Anil’s 'second wife’.
 
 Sonam and Anand’s family released a joint statement to spread the good news earlier this week! The statement read, "From the Kapoor & Ahuja families, The Kapoor & Ahuja families, take great joy and pride, in announcing the marriage of Sonam & Anand. The wedding will take place on the 8th of May in Mumbai. Since it is an intimate affair, we request you to respect the family's need for privacy. Thank you for all your blessings and love, as we celebrate this special moment in our lives. Thanks & Regards."
 
 
 
  
 
