The latest episode of   witnessed a fresh ‘face challenge’ in the house.

 The episode started with the continuation of the captaincy task. The name of the captaincy task was 'Ande Ka Funda'. The task involved a group of contestants, who had to protect the eggs (hatched by the hen in the garden) with the photos of the contestants, from the attacker group. The eggs of the contestants that were protected then had to fight to for the captaincy.
 
 In the previous episodes, Resham,   and Aastad’s eggs were safe. 
 
  tried to save the egg which had Pushkar’s photo but she could not protect it till the buzzer.
 
 Then it was Tyagraj’s chance to play the task. Megha explained him the strategy of the game. 
 
  was upset. So Sharmishtha and Megha tried to pacify her. They even asked her the reason she was feeling low. But Sai did not speak a single word. So Megha informed Bigg Boss about Sai’s condition and also said that she needed mental support.
 
 Then the task continued. The egg which had Tyagraj’s photo emerged. He selected Aastad, Smita, Resham, and Pushkar to protect the egg. But the egg was destroyed before the buzzer.
 
 During the task, Sushant and Pushkar got into an argument. Sushant lost his temper and shouted at Pushkar. Even Pushkar rebuked him.
 
 Bigg Boss then came up with a new challenge titled ‘Fresh Face’ wherein the female housemates had to compete with each other. 
 
 They made 3 teams - Sai and Sharmishtha in Team 1, Jui and Resham in Team 2, Smita and Megha in Team 3. There were 4 boxes. One lady from each team had to search the keys of the 4 boxes and the other lady was asked to guide her. Also Aastad, Sushant, and Pushkar were asked to apply mud on the faces of the female contestants who would be searching the keys.
 
 Smita and Megha won the challenge and as they completed the task in relatively less time. So they got the gift hampers.
 
 Bigg Boss then summoned Sai into the confession room. She told Bigg Boss that she was going through performance pressure. Bigg Boss tried to cheer her up. She promised him that she will stay positive and strong, henceforth.
 
 
  
 
 
