NEW DELHI: Last Tuesday, a group of youths were hanging around near   industrial area after a round of drinks. Around 2am, they spotted a "woman" dressed in black salwar suit and a red chunni, and stopped her.

 The youths were surprised to see it was a man in women's attire. One of them, youths, a first year BCom student at a Delhi University college, quizzed him about his dress, the mehndi on his hands and anklets on his feet. 
 
  
  
 Police said the man tried to wriggle out but the youths did not let him go. An argument ensued and the youths began to thrash the man. The DU student whipped out a Swiss knife and stabbed the man in his heart, face and head, cops said. Around 3.30am, a passerby called the cops about a body lying on Anandmayi Marg. The man, an orphan, had bled to death. For several days, the cops could not establish the identity of the victim.
 
 An FIR was registered and two teams led by ACP Anant   and inspectors Mukesh Walia and Ved Prakash was formed to investigate the case. The first challenge was to identify the body. 
 
 The teams analyzed the data of missing persons and identified the man as 22-year-old Kalu, who lived near the temple in Kalkaji,” DCP (south-east)   told TOI. The police tracked down his brother and acquaintances who revealed that Kalu was an orphan brought up at a dharamshala near   mandir. Living near the temple, Kalu became extremely religious. 
 
 A staunch devotee of goddess Kali, Kalu used to dress up like her on Tuesdays and Saturdays by wearing a black salwar, red chunni and anklets. He also roamed around with eunuchs of the area. Last Tuesday, he was on his way home but never got there. With leads in hand, the police teams intensified the probe and deployed informers in entire district. 
 
 Two days ago, constable Sanju of Kalkaji police station got a tip-off about the suspects after which a joint team of cops from Kalkaji and Okhla police stations began to conduct raids. 
 
 Finally, police managed to apprehend the student, identified as 20-year-old Naveen, from   area. Six others including three juveniles were also apprehended. Those over 18 years of age were identified as   Singh, 20,  , 25, and Sajal Maheshwari, 19. Aman and Sajal worked as delivery boys while others are school dropouts. The minors were produced before the juvenile justice board while the others were produced in court. 
 
 The accused confessed that they were roaming around on their motorcycles that night after consuming alcohol. Around 2am, they halted near the National Small Industries Corporation (NSIC) main gate and saw the victim walking across. They stopped him and began to make fun of him. Police have seized five bikes belonging to the accused and the Swiss knife used in the murder.
 
