HYDERABAD : Calling the   (NMC) bill a ‘pro-private college’ bill, the Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (TJUDA) on Tuesday organised a massive protest at   (OMC).

 It said that the bill would pave the way for corruption because it would remove all regulations for setting up a medical college and would make medical education in India highly expensive.
 
 “This bill is anti-people. It is pro-rich and pro-private managements. If the said bill is implemented, the cost of medical education and healthcare will rise astronomically. It is also anti-patient since it promotes unscientific mixing of systems. A medical bill without the concurrence of the medical profession will be a disaster. So, we appeal to the government of India to abolish this bill,” said Dr PS Vijayender, chairman, TJUDA, adding that no services were hampered in government hospitals because of the protest.
 
  
 The Association said that as per provisions of the bill, the government will be able to regulate the fee structure of only 40% of seats at a private medical college and for the remaining seats, the management will be allowed to fix the fee structure, making medical education in India highly expensive.
 
 More than 500 junior doctors and medical students took part in the protest organised under the aegis of T JUDA. Similar protests were also organised at Gandhi Medical College, Kakatiya Medical College and other colleges in the state where hundreds of junior doctors raised their voice against the bill.
 
 “We study for years together to become qualified doctors and provide quality services to people. If this bill is implemented, those who are practising Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy (Ayush) could also be eligible to practice allopathy or modern medicine on clearing a bridge course. That is completely insane,” said Dr   A, who participated in the protest at Gandhi Medical College.
 
 The NMC bill, if implemented, will replace Medical Council of India (MCI). The bill was tabled in   by   health minister   on Friday. On Tuesday, the bill was referred to a parliamentary standing committee after protests erupted across the country. The committee has been asked to give its report before the Budget session.
 
 
 
 Protesting the National Medical Commission (NMC) Bill, doctors working in private and corporate hospitals in Hyderabad suspended outpatient services on Tuesday.
 
 Routine services, which were supposed to be stopped for 12 hours (6am to 6pm) after the   declared Tuesday as a ‘Black Day’, resumed after 3pm after the IMA called off the strike.
 
 “Except for emergency services, almost all private and corporate doctors did not render routine services till 3pm. Only after IMA, Delhi, called off the protest, services resumed,” said Dr T Narasinga Reddy, president, IMA-Telangana unit.
 
 The nationwide stir was called off by IMA after the bill was referred to a parliamentary standing committee, which has members from diverse fields. “This is the first victory for the IMA. We hope there will be fruitful discussions and certain clauses will be removed before the bill is placed in Parliament,” said SVSS Prasad, a doctor from  , who participated in the protest.
 
 IMA, Hyderabad, said 70% of doctors from private hospital took part in protest. It has been strongly opposing the Bill saying it will ‘cripple’ medical professionals, making them answerable to bureaucracy and nonmedical administrators. 
 
 
