RAIPUR: Lack of trauma centres and field hospitals at insurgency-hit   often lead to the death of critically injured jawans or leave them physically handicapped. Absence of proper first response medical facilities has lost India many of its brave men. 

 Experts have raised concern over the medical dependency of the Naxal-prone areas. The injured jawans have to be air-lifted to   hospitals wherein 'Golden hours' are wasted in transporting them to a hospital.
 
 Both   and Aam Aadmi Party blamed it on government for the delay in setting up a   in Jagdalpur despite promises.
 
 Talking to TOI, Deepak Baij, Chitrakote Congress legislator in   said, "BJP government has been claiming for past three years that it will set up a super-speciality hospital in Bastar and have been searching for a land here. The work hasn't yet started and every year during state budget, they promise that Bastar would have its own hi-tech hospital."
 
 Adding that Bastar is a hyper-sensitive area and isn't a priority of the state government, he said, "Injured jawans have to wait for 4-5 hours for choppers to arrive, most of which are busy in VIP duties. People who suffer from head injuries or severity of similar nature have to rush to Vishakhapatnam or Raipur.
 
 The hospitals in Bastar are only for referrals and lack basic facilities to conduct tests for treatment of security personnel, says Uchit Sharma of AAP.
 
 "Bastar being a centre of insurgency where everyday is a battle for jawans, what would a security personnel think before going into forests when theres no good doctor or medical facility to attend him if hes wounded. Moreover, the injured in Raipur are all stuffed in one hospital so that its convenient for VVIPs to visit. Said Sharma, adding, that Jagdalpur hospital lacks MRI and CT scan facilities as the machines arent functional.
 
 Principal secretary of health Surbat Sahoo said, "Rs 5.25 crore have been sanctioned by the Centre and 60 posts for a trauma centre have been sanctioned by state government. This is for the medical college in Jagdalpur."
 
 Senior police officers said that taking each injured jawan via chopper to Raipur often leads to wastage of crucial time when the jawans could be saved and revived. A trauma centre at Jagdalpur is urgently needed as it would take maximum 45 minutes if injured are airlifted from any part of Bastar.
 
 
