THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state’s administrative capital will virtually be shifted to its cultural capital with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and 10 of his cabinet colleagues arriving to attend the CPM   that begins in   on Thursday.

 CPI’s four ministers may also be out of the capital mostly during this period as they will be busy attending the curtain-raiser events of the party’s state conference scheduled to be held in Malappuram from February 28.
 
 Sources said the CM and other   will reach Thrissur on Wednesday itself. The four-day conference will conclude with a rally on February 25.
 
 A camp office of the CM with a dozen members of his personal staff will function at Thrissur on all these days so that there won’t be delay in attending to urgent official matters. Personal staff members of the other ministers will also be accompanying them, said sources.
 
 The cabinet meeting of this week will be held on Tuesday morning, instead of Wednesday, so that ministers can leave for Thrissur comfortably. “There wouldn’t be any lapse in governance and all files are now handled digitally. The offices of ministers will function as usual in Thrissur and the five-day absence from the capital will in no way affect the government,” said a senior member of the personal staff of one of the ministers.
 
 During the district conferences of CPM, the CM was away from office for around 25 days and at that time there were allegations that several files had got stuck at the CMO. The CMO then had clarified with statistics of files that all work was done properly though the CM was away from office.
 
 Also attending the state conference will be a majority of   politburo members. Apart from Pinarayi and state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, the other PB members attending the state conference are party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, Prakash Karat, S Ramachandran Pillai, M A Baby and A K Padmanabhan. Yechury will inaugurate the conference, veteran leader V S Achuthanandan will raise the party flag at the venue, ahead of the inaugural function.
 
 
