BAREILLY:   will come: no matter it’s raining cats and dogs or we are sizzling under sweltering heat or bone-chilling cold threatening to freeze making us almost an unmovable object — postman will come, for sure. If we tell this to Ibne Hasan, a 53-year-old Gramin   ( ), possibly — to some degree certainly — it won’t enthuse him. Not because he has grown older or his enthusiasm is waning after serving the department and people for 34 years, but it is the government’s “apathy” that is causing exhaustion.
 
  “Like me there are nearly 771 GDSs in   and Pilibhit districts who,” he says, “have been working tirelessly vis-à-vis their permanent counterparts. But, after serving the department for over three decades what do we get today — a salary of Rs 13,000 and Rs 90 for the maintenance of a cycle astride which we paddle 20 km traversing 15 villages even in hostile weather conditions.” “Look at my permanent counterparts; they are getting three times higher salary than I, and perks and privileges in addition.”
  
  No, Hasan is not against them or their higher income. He, however, feels let down by the government’s duplicity. “Even after two years of submission, the government failed to implement the Kamlesh Chandra Committee report, which has recommended allowance and other benefits for GDSs across the country. The implementation would have given some relief to us in fulfilling commitments to our families,” he said.
  
  The 771 GDSs cover more than 2,000 villages in Bareilly district and around 1,295 in Pilibhit and Hasan is among 104 GDSs who are on an indefinite strike from May 22. On Sunday, their strike entered 12th day, but nobody from the government came forward to hold talks. “Isn’t it insensitivity. Most of the GDSs have been working for two or three decades. They find it hard to meet their family demands with this meagre income,” he said.
  
  The 104 GDSs have been united under the egis of All India Gramin Dak Sevak Union. The union alleged that the Centre had been deliberately delaying the implementation of the recommendations.
  
  Union’s regional president Vivek Saxsena said, “The committee has recommended allowances and other benefits to GDSs on par with the permanent staff considering the nature of our work and working hours vis-à-vis permanent staffer.”
  
  Saxsena told TOI that they would remain on strike until their demands were fulfilled.
  
  According to postal assistant HS Mehta, as 104 GDSs have gone on strike, postal service in their respective areas has been suffering badly. “No GDSs on strike in Bareilly district, but 104 GDSs have stopped working in Pilibhit,” Mehta said.
  
  GDSs are also supported by permanent postal staff. “Neither their future is secured nor they have been paid a salary good enough for survival,” said postal staff.
  
  A senior postal officer on condition of anonymity said, “It cannot be denied that GDSs are being harassed for decades. They work in rural areas which normally have limited modes of commutation and poor infrastructure. Besides, from selling postal tickets to delivering posts and from maintaining saving accounts and records to sending daily reports to the district headquarters, a GDS does it all.”
  
  Meanwhile, on Sunday, a delegation led by union’s divisional secretary Mahendra Pratap Singh went to Union labour minister Santosh Gangwar’s residence here to apprise him with their problems, but he was not available.
  “In minister’s absence, we handed over our memorandum of demands to minister’s staff. We have demanded implementation of the committee’s recommendation in accordance with the Seventh Pay Commission.”
  
  Singh told TOI that 300 GDSs from Bareilly would go on indefinite strike from Monday morning.
