LUDHIANA: The   organised a workshop to mark World   Day on Saturday. The month of April is dedicated for haemophilia awareness.

 More than 150 patients and their relatives attended the function. Expert lectures were delivered by Dr M Joseph John, Dr Chepsy Philip DM and Dr Suvir Singh DM.
 
 Dr M Joseph John shared that a study conducted by CMC based on the registry data, 211 patients are from   out of which 175 patients are with hemophilia A (91.3%) and 36 (8.7%) with hemophilia B. Out of the total, 62.5% had severe haemophilia. He explained that 83.5% of the sever haemophilia A cases develop severe joint deformities.
 
 Dr Joseph said transfusion transmitted infections were found in 24 patients (18.3%) and this is largely due to plasma transfusions in the early days when clotting factor concentrates were not available.
 
 The doctors however said the estimated number of patients with haemophilia should be 2,844 and only 7.4 % of the estimated cases are diagnosed in Punjab.
 
 Notably, haemophilia is a condition in which a specific factor 8 or 9 is missing which helps the blood to clot following an injury. It is estimated that one in every 5,000 males born are affected by this disease. According to the Haemophilia Federation of India (HFI) data, there are 18,000 haemophilia patients registered in the 85 Haemophilia Chapters across the country.
 
 Haemophilia in India is a grossly under-diagnosed disorder, mainly due to lack of awareness and diagnostic facilities in this country. PWH faces long-term joint deformities and early death. Persons with haemophilia (PWH), if diagnosed and managed in time, can get a normal life contributing to the society like a normal person. The state government through the National Health Mission (NHM) is making factors available in all the three medical colleges and CMC Ludhiana. CMC Ludhiana and PGI Chandigarh have been chosen as the nodal centres for training of doctors in Punjab.
 
 With advancements in long acting factors and other molecules to prevent bleeding and gene therapy, there is much hope for patients suffering from haemophilia, experts said. 
 
 
