A puzzled   who has just set foot in the town of  , questions an auto driver ( ), “Meekemanna piccha” (Are you crazy?), to which the latter replies “Picchi Kaadu, paga, Telugodu atu pokodadu, Tamilodu itu raakodadu.” (This is not madness, this is hostility! Telugus should not go that side and Tamilians should not come this side.) A fence which runs right through the heart of the town cuts it into two, cordoning off the Tamils and Telugus to their respective sides. 
And that precisely is the premise of the Naga Shaurya-Rashmika Mandanna starrer  . Easily one of the most awaited films post Sankranti, the fact that Chalo’s trailer clocked more than 2.5 million views within a day of its launch bears ample testimony to the expectations riding on the film. And the trailer at least, lives up to those expectations. Replete with action, humour, love and drama, it appears to be the 
 harbinger of a fun-packed, action entertainer. 
 But what stands out is the unique storyline — a campus love story set in the fictional town of Tiruppuram, in the backdrop of the Telugu-Tamil rift. 
 Speaking about the film, Naga Shaurya says, “We are truly overwhelmed. Chalo is a complete entertainer with romance and action taking centre stage. I play the role of a student, Hari who is pressurised by his parents to do well in academics. This is a role which many students can relate to. Hari is not a typical lover boy. He is a rough and tough guy.”
 While Naga Shaurya seems at complete ease in his role of a student, the chemistry between him and the gorgeous   is already being talked about. The banter between the duo seems to be something to watch out for on the big screen. “How many backlogs do you have?” she asks him to which he responds, “Three,” while showing four fingers. She then picks on him for lying. Later, he is dumbstruck on hearing that she has 16 backlogs. 
 The final line in the hit trailer goes, “Chaala interesting ga vundi. Asalenti bhayya ee voori godava?” (It seems interesting — but what’s the issue with this town, really?!) 
 “To find the answer to that, you’ll have to watch our film,” quips Shaurya, with a smile.
 
 
