Home is where the heart is goes the adage. However, for the ever-wandering  , the notified scheduled tribes in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh but not of-Punjab (it has no notified scheduled tribes), this is a story of building their homes with their head ruling the heart.

  
  
 
 These nomadic   and  , have for centuries moved their livestock from one grazing ground to another in a seasonal cycle, typically to lowlands in winter and highlands of Jammu and Kashmir during summer. However, various circumstances in the last few years have forced many to gradually settle into a sedentary life in other states, including  .
 
 “There are around 4,000 nomads -- mostly Gujjars but a good number of Bakarwals as well -- in Punjab and the areas where they have settled permanently include, Ludhiana, Machhiwara, Chamkaur Sahib, Hoshiarpur, Ropar, Garhshankar, Chabbewal, Pathankot and Nawanshahr,” said 40-yearold Abdul Haq, a Gujjar living in Chamkaur Sahib.
 
 The distinction between the Gujjars and Bakarwals is tenuous and often people differentiate between the two on the basis of livestock they rear. “The only difference between the Gujjars and Bakarwals is that the former rear buffaloes while the latter rear sheep and goats,” said Haq.
 
 
  
  Thousands of nomadic tribals are now living in Punjab villages
 
 The transformation of nomadic tribes into sedentary communities has been gradual. “We, like thousands of other nomads, used to lead a roaming life. Then we felt this nomadic life will lead us nowhere so we decided to settle at one place, and Punjab being Badshah (King) land, because of communal harmony, safety, availability of fodder for cattle and business activity.
 
 “We built our houses and have permanently settled here,” he said, adding, they feel they had made a wise decision, especially in the wake of the recent Kathua rape incident.
 
 Sham Din, a Bakarwal of the same village, who owns around 15 goats and seven buffaloes, said they receive love and respect from the villagers, mostly Sikhs, and some of them even allow tribals to raise cattle on their land.
 
 Interestingly, at Khanpur Purkhali in Ropar district, the nomads have an entire colony of their own.
 
 “We had been coming to this place for about 25 to 30 years during winters. During summers, we would go to meadows on the border of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. A few years ago, we constructed a house here and settled permanently. There are 30 to 40 nomad houses in Khanpur Purkhali. We are even getting a mosque built here,” said 50-year-old Masoom Ali, a proud owner of 20 buffaloes.
 
 Despite settling down in Punjab, these marginalized scheduled tribes are not on the state government’s radar yet.
 
 The 2011 census did not include them and other scheduled tribes in the state. “We do not have a proper link road to our area and there is no drainage system and clean drinking water. The government should at least provide us these. Also, if our cattle die or our temporary hutment is damaged in Himachal Pradesh we get compensation. There is no such provision in Punjab,” said Javed, another resident of Khanpur. He, however, expressed appreciation for the local population and the support his community had received from them.
 
 At Khokran Takhran village, where around 10 families of Gujjars and Bakarwals have built permanent homes, the warmth between nomads and local villagers is palpable. “Hassan and Ali are my brothers and I am happy that their community is living in our village. Punjabis are known for welcoming those who come from other places. My fields are near the settlement and I do contribute some fodder for their cattle,” said Mewa Singh, a village farmer. He said they did participate in each other’s festivals and marriages.
 
 Meanwhile, Javaid Rahi, secretary, tribal research and cultural foundation, listed the reasons for these nomadic tribes deciding to settle down as -- militancy in J&K, cross-border firing, closures of forests and changing weather conditions.
 
 Education seems to have played a major role in the decision by tribals to settle down at one place.
 
 “The best part of settling here is that my children -- three sons and four daughters -- are going to a local school. Though I couldn’t study much due to nomadic lifestyle, I want them to do well in life after getting educated. I also want some of my children to continue owning buffaloes and keep the tradition,” said Ali, flinging his youngest son Cheenu, a Class I student, onto his lap.
 
 Sultana, a Class VIII student of a Machhiwara school, said earlier girls and even boys couldn’t study because of the nomadic lifestyle but after permanently settling at one place they are getting the much-needed education. She said many girls like her now dream of achieving something in life.
 
 Another nomad, Muhammad Yaqoob said they preferred settled life over nomadic one. The nomadic life was extremely tough as they had to traverse difficult terrain with herds of cattle, braving inclement weather and natural disasters each season, he said, adding, “there is feeling among a sizeable population of Gujjars that the nomadic life has not given them much, and they have suffered more because of it.”
 
 Now, the future of these nomads --who have given up their traditional lifestyle to make a permanent home in Punjab – depends on how soon the state government officially recognizes their tribe and its presence.
 
