Gurgaon: A class XI student has lodged a complaint with police against two youths for allegedly stalking and molesting her. The 17-year-old girl claimed that she was ignoring the stalkers until she saw them following her during one of her morning walks and felt so threatened that she moved the police on Wednesday.

 According to the complaint, Deepak, a native of Gudrana village in Palwal district, and his friend, Vikas from Khedla village, would cross her path daily and pass lewd comments or play objectionable songs. 
 
 Vikas lives with his family across her street and his gang would harass her even when she was at home from the rooftop of his house. 
 
 The girl kept ignoring the duo but when she found the youths following her when she was jogging, she told her family about them. After this, the girl’s brother tried to snub the boys and the girl also lodged a police complaint. 
 
 An FIR has been registered against Deepak and Vikas under Section 12 (sexual harassment) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act at the Sohna Sadar police station but the accused have not been arrested yet.
 
 “We have registered an FIR and are investigating into the matter as we have found out that a dispute is going on between the families of the girl and Vikas. We are verifying the facts and action will be taken as per the law. We will arrest the accused as early as possible,” said inspector Ram Kumar, SHO, Sohna police station.
 
 On Thursday, another woman moved the police against her neighbour for sexually harassing her after forcibly entering into her house. 
 
 The 25-year-old woman, a resident of a village near Pataudi, moved the police against her neighbour, Sushil Kumar, who allegedly forced himself into her house on Thursday at around 1:00am when she was alone. The woman claimed that the accused molested her when she was sleeping but fled away after she raised an alarm. She also said that he had been sexually harassing her for the past few days.
 
 An FIR has been registered against Sushil Kumar (24) under sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage of her modesty), 354-A (molestation) of IPC at Pataudi police station. 
 
 “We are investigating into the matter and the accused will be arrested soon,” said head constable and investigating officer Madhu.
 
 
