JAIPUR: The   ( ) of   busted another   racket set up for the ongoing constable recruitment examination on Wednesday after it arrested four persons from a private primary school located in Murlipura area of the city.

 According to DIG (SOG)  , the sleuths raided the school on Wednesday morning and found a cheating network akin to the one busted at another centre located in   area of the city on Monday.
 
 “We found that some of the computers in the examination room were connected to different computers located in a nearby room. We found that these computers, in turn, were connected with another set of systems based in Bhiwani in Haryana,” Shrotiya said.
 
 The SOG arrested Dolphin Kids international, Murlipura’s director Ram Niwas, his IT helpers Raju and Mukesh, and a school teacher Ram Ratan Sharma.
 
 The initial investigation indicate that Ram Niwas met one Pramod Fogat of Haryana who had been in touch with Abhimany and Sanjay who had set-up similar online cheating racket in Sarswati infotech in Malviya Nagar. “Pramod gave the cheating idea to Ram Niwas. He also provided technical help in setting up of the cheating LAN network through Abhimanyu and Sanjay,” an official said.
 
 The matter came to light when the contractual company hired for conducting the examination spotted Abhimanyu in the CCTV footage. “Abhimanyi was spotted outside the school in the CCTV. The company raised the alarm and we raided the school,” the official said.
 
 DIG Shrotriya said that Ram Niwas got sacred when he learnt about the SOG busting the similar racket operating from Sarswati Infotech. The sleuths of SOG learnt that the accused had tampered with the computer networks and tried to erase all signs of hacking.
 
 “They had installed software that could hack into computers and give a remote access to another local network. The remote access was given to computers located in Bhiwani in Haryana. They chose a location out of the state as they thought It would be difficult to track,” the official told TOI.
 
 The sources in the SOG said that all benefices in the scam have been identified and more arrests are likely in the case.
 
