NAGPUR: Getting genuine feedback from consumers on their products is a big task most branded companies face. Such service providers therefore have immense opportunities if they tap the growing market in a systematic way.

 Sourabh Narsaria, chief executive officer of Floorwalk, traced his journey from being a computer engineer to becoming the founder of a multi-crore firm at a workshop titled ‘Execute big ideas’, organized by the Nagpur chapter of All Ladies Leagues (ALL) and Value Kreation, an international training organization, at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines, on Friday.
 
 The idea of doing something new was on Narsaria’s mind for which he started interacting with people to get feedback on a number of issues. During the process, he learnt what people think about the branded products. He then realized that companies too need feedback, and started working on the idea of becoming a service provider to them. 
 
 He said, “The data thus collected was enough to start my own ‘mystery shopping company’. But success does not come easily as I tried to sell this idea to 60 clients. The idea clicked when I approached a company which paid for the project. The rest is history.” 
 
 The company has given employment to more than 10,000 individuals from across the country, including housewives, and partnered with more than top 50 brands like Audi, Porsche, Apple, Amazon, Manyavar and Samsung. 
 
 “These brands hire mystery shoppers to evaluate quality of service in their stores and get information at ground level. They instruct a mystery shopper to make a particular purchase in a store or restaurant and then report on the experience. This is the most objective and unbiased way of getting proper feedback from consumers,” Narsaria said. 
 
 He also spoke about the concept of bootstrapping where an aspiring entrepreneur starts off with little or no capital, investing his finances.
 
 Baldev Rawat, co-founder of Value Kreation and Malvika Fulwani, chairperson of ALL Nagpur were present. 
 
  He believed that there are plenty of business ideas which can be sold with zero capital.
 
  and asked the participants to explore the market and do extensive research. 
 
 Narsaria had a one-to-one talk with young participants and told them to trust their instincts and never get disheartened by failures. This is the first step of climbing the ladder of success, he said.
 
 
