PANAJI: In a major goof-up, XII standard students answering the Hindi paper during the joint preliminary examination on Wednesday were handed out copies of the answer key instead of question paper.

 The joint preliminary examination is conducted by the Higher Secondary School Principals  . Sources said that instead of copies of the question paper, the answer key was inadvertently printed and placed in the question paper envelope. As per practice, only a single copy of the answer key is printed and sent to the institution, while copies of the question paper are printed based on the number of students answering the  .
 
 Around 80 higher secondary schools of the total 108 schools affiliated to the Goa Higher Secondary School Principals Forum use the questions papers set by the forum for the joint preliminary examination, informed sources.
 
 The exam was later conducted by procuring the question paper sets from the paper collection centre that had to be printed on Wednesday morning after the incident. 
 
 The number of question papers required by the institution is given well in advance. As per standard procedure, question papers is sent to the institution a couple of days prior to the exam, and is kept in the custody of the head of the institution. 
 
 
 
 
 The papers are sealed subject-wise in separate envelopes, and subsequently, all these envelopes are packed in a single packet. The answer key of all the subjects are packed in a single envelope and dispatched to the institution. The head of the institution hands over the question paper envelope to the exam committee of the respective institution about half to one hour before the exam commences.
 
 In the event that this incident were to have occured at the board exam, it would have been near impossible to resolve the situation which may have led be postponement of the exam, said sources. During the board exam, the questions papers, packed in the envelopes of 20–25 copies each, are sent to the examination centre in the morning.
 
 
