:   

 :   Ravichander 
 
 After giving fabulous songs in Naanum Rowdy Dhaan,   ShivN and Anirudh rake up the expectations for Thaana Serndha Koottam. With the team releasing singles every now and then, so much buzz has been created for the film. The album begins with Naana Thaana sung by Anirudh, a vibrant number. The song deals with the man describing his girl in the most fun manner. The beats are just right for this song, without going over the top. Anirudh breathes life to this number, making this one one of our faves in the album. 
 
 This is followed by the already-hit Sodakku by  . It is hard not to groove to song like this the minute it takes off. From start to finish — this one’s hard to sing-along (you should see   take a moment to breathe after the first charanam), but the energy of the song is so infectious that you immediately try to sing the lines sodakku mela sodakku. Needlessly to say, Anthony gives his best for this song, making him the most sought-after singer yet again for kuthu numbers. This one is sure to become one of the top favourite kuthu numbers this year. Next up is the title song rendered by Anirudh and Vignesh. The lyrics by Vignesh is quite motivating. However, Anirudh doesn’t make this as one of those motivational tracks, but packs it in with punch. 
 
 After all the highs, Anirudh goes easy with Engae Endru Povathu, which is sung by him and Shakthisree Gopalan. This one, written by  , is equally motivating and the essence of the same is brought out well by Anirudh. Taking the slow rock route, the background work and tune is well-composed. Yet another nice track by the composer. The album ends with   by Jassie Gift, Nakash Aziz and Mali. The song has a beach vibe with a retro twist. The highlight of this song are the multiple interludes of flute, saxophone to name a few. The song’s energy is present from the start to end. An attempt like this has been done after a long time in Kollywood and it has turned out pretty well. This one, too, is yet another energetic dance number. Anirudh and Vignesh’s combination has worked again. And the composer only proves, time and again, to experiment and give some fine tracks for each album he works on. 
 
