VADODARA: Fire broke out at three places in the city on Saturday. The first incident was reported in a house at Rajnagar Society on Saiyed Vasna Road around noon, during the same time some trees on the side of railway track near   society in   were ablaze and a few hours later garbage inside the old Gaekwadi railway saloon near platform 7 was caught in fire.

 According to fire officials, the fire broke out at house of   on Saiyed Vasna Road. It was caused due to short-circuit in television in living room. While Patel was at her workplace, her seven-year-old-daughter Lajja and her elderly uncle were on the first floor of the house.
 
 “Entire furniture in the living room was charred and there was lot of smoke too because of which the girl and her uncle could not use staircases. When our staff reached there along with dousing the fire on the ground floor, we rescued the girl and her uncle from the balcony of the first floor,” said  , station officer, Vadiwadi fire station.
 
 During the same time, some trees and cables on the side of railway tracks near Subodh Nagar Society in Manjalpur caught fire mysteriously. The locals unsuccessfully tried to douse the fire by splashing buckets of water. Soon, firemen from   fire station reached there and brought the fire under control. Railway traffic was not affected due to the incident.
 
 Few hours later, garbage piled up in the historic railway shed near platform 7 was ablaze. The railway shed is in dilapidated condition since years. According to sources in fire department, a lit cigarette thrown on the garbage must have sparked the fire.
 
 The railway salon once housed living, dinning and bedroom bogies of a train which was used by erstwhile ruler of Baroda state - Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III - when he used to travel to Bombay. These royal bogies were attached to the train from the salon.
 
 The railway salon is unique in itself for the simple reason that one would find no shed being used for royal bogies attached to any railway station.
 
 But plans to provide an uplift to the shed have remained only on paper. Earlier, proposals were floated before Vadodara district collector to convert the shed into city heritage museum.
 
 
