Jaipur: Rajasthan bypolls have rung the alarming bells for ruling BJP, both at the Centre and in the state. People in two parliamentary constituencies and one assembly seat spread across three regions of the state have completely rejected BJP by giving a clean sweep to Congress in the bypolls held on January 29.

 In the results declared on Thursday, Congress recorded comfortable victories in Ajmer and Alwar Lok Sabha seats as well as in Mandalgarh assembly (in Bhilwara district) seat. All three seats were earlier held by BJP but the deaths of its MPs and MLA necessitated the bypolls.
 
 What should worry BJP more is that Congress has taken a lead on all 17 assembly segments — eight each in Ajmer and Alwar parliamentary constituencies and one Mandalgarh seat — in the bypolls, which were dubbed as semi-finals before the assembly elections due in December. Initial reports suggest a massive swing of vote percentage in favour of Congress in these assembly segments as compared to 2013 and 2014 elections.
 
 “Since people have given a lead to Congress in all 17 assembly segments, which are spread across different regions of the state, it’s a clear rejection of BJP and its policies. Chief minister Vasundhara Raje, who got a splendid opportunity with a massive mandate in 2013, failed on every front in fulfilling people’s expectations. She should now resign on moral grounds,” said Sachin Pilot, the PCC chief. He added, “Since these elections for parliamentary seats were held after ‘notebandi’ and GST, it is a mandate against the BJP government at Centre too. Congress will make a comeback not only in Rajasthan this year but also in other states and at the Centre.”
 
 Chief minister Raje later tweeted, “We have worked tirelessly over the years, with the people of Rajasthan as our centre of attention and shall work harder, with renewed fervour and dedication, taking our beautiful state to new heights.”
 
 The biggest victory for the opposition party came from the Alwar parliamentary constituency where Congress’ Karan Singh Yadav defeated BJP’s Jaswant Singh Yadav, a cabinet minister in the Raje government, by a margin of over 1.96 lakh votes. Karan, who made a comeback to politics after nearly a decade, has won the seat for the second time (2004-2009). Former Union minister Bhanwar Jitendra Singh had lost the seat to BJP’s late Mahant Chand Nath in the 2014 general elections.
 
 For the state Congress, the most significant victory is of Ajmer Lok Sabha, which has been the constituency of Pilot. CM Raje had begun campaigning in Ajmer district much before the bypoll dates were declared, hoping to crush the opposition party’s morale with a Congress defeat on Pilot’s political turf. Once the bypoll dates were declared, Pilot chose not to contest but campaigned harder and ultimately left the ruling party stunned by registering a victory with over 84,000 votes for his party candidate Raghu Sharma.
 
 Sharma, an ex-MLA, defeated BJP’s greenhorn Ramswaroop Lamba, son of former union minister Sanwarlal Jat whose demise led to the bypoll for Ajmer parliamentary seat. Congress victory in Ajmer is likely to silence Pilot’s detractors in the party’s state unit. “After attempting polarization on religious lines, BJP tried to polarize people on caste lines. But people, especially the youth, have rejected BJP’s divisive politics,” Pilot said.
 
 The first result declared in the day was of Mandalgarh assembly seat, which had a triangular contest since a Congress rebel was in fray as an independent candidate. Congress candidate Vivek Dhakar, however, recorded an easy victory by defeating BJP’s Shakti Singh Hada with a margin of almost 13,000 votes. Independent candidate Gopal Malviya secured around 40,500 votes. The assembly seat was earlier represented by BJP’s Kirti Kumari, who succumbed to swine flu in August last year.
 
 Conceding defeat, BJP state president Ashok Parnami said, “We respect people’s mandate and shall analyse the reasons for our defeat.”
 
 BJP had won all 25 Lok Sabha seats in Rajasthan in the 2014 general elections. After the bypoll results, the Lok Sabha score now is 23 for BJP and two for Congress from the state. The ruling BJP, which wrested power from Congress in Rajasthan in 2013, had 161 MLAs in the assembly of 200 members. The assembly score now has been rearranged to 160 for BJP and 25 for Congress.
 
 
