GURUGRAM: The city police, which is suffering under severe staff crunch, will get 1,000 more cops apart from 350 special   officers (SPOs). Three batches of police personnel who recently completed their training reached the police headquarters and will join the duty on Wednesday, according to sources. New cops will join city police stations, traffic wing and other police departments in the city.

 A senior police officer said majority of newly inducted cops are graduates, which will make the force more efficient. 
 
 At present, total sanctioned posts of police personnel in Gurugram are 6,500 while only 4,300 policemen have been posted in city. Now, with the induction of 1,350 new cops, the strength will go up to 5,650. According to police, 400 new traffic cops will also be joining the force by the end of this week. The Gurugram police has always been blaming staff crunch for increasing crime rates in the city. 
 
 With the induction of 1,350 new cops, city senior police officers expect that rising crime graph could be tackled to some extent. DGP BS   had announced in July last year that   would get 11,000 more police personnel, of which 1,000, including 67 women sub-inspectors, would be deployed in Gurugram. According to a senior police officer, patrolling and traffic management will be strengthened after new policemen join the city police.
 
 A senior police officer said of 350 SPOs, more than 100 would be deployed for night patrolling in the city after their 15-day training.
 
 “After the deployment of new cops, there will be an enhanced presence of police personnel across the city, which will help tackle rising crimes and traffic violations. We have long been struggling staff crunch and all cops are overburdened. Now things will get better. As many as 150 cops will be posted in the traffic wing, while men will be posted in police stations as per requirement,” said Deepak Gahlawat, DCP (headquarters), Gurugram. Women sub inspectors, according to Gahlawat, are undergoing training now, and they will also join the force soon. 
 
 
