KOCHI: Wary of stringent provisions in the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill which, once enacted, would make commercial surrogacy impossible, childless couples in the state are increasingly opting for it.

 Of the 45 IVF centres in state, around 20 who offer the facility have reported an increase in number of couples who commission surrogate mothers to carry their child.
 
 Infertility specialists said that from two to three cases of surrogacy on in each infertility centre in the last 10 years, the number has jumped to 20 to 25, on an average, in 2017 alone. Indian Society of Assisted Reproduction ( ),   chapter, confirmed the increase in commercial surrogacy in the state.
 
 The prime reason for this, the doctors admit, is the fear of childless couples the surrogacy law would only allow close relatives to be surrogates.
 
 Earlier, a couple would go for 20 to 25 IVF treatment sessions before deciding to opt for surrogacy or adoption. But now, they are looking at the commercial surrogacy option much earlier. “In Kerala, the couples are very conservative and even those who require surrogacy are reluctant to go for it. This is slowly changing and since last year we have seen a trend where after two to three failed IVF sessions, the couple decides on surrogacy,” said Dr  , scientific director, CIMAR Fertility Centre.
 
 “Doctors are also now advising childless couples to check out surrogacy options after two to three failed IVF cycles,” said Dr Fessy Louis T, secretary, ISAR (Kerala chapter).
 
 The Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2016 allows surrogacy for couples who have been legally wedded for a period of not less than 5 years, where both are Indian citizens and at least one of them has been diagnosed with fertility related problem. The new bill lays emphasis on a complete ban on commercial surrogacy and the close relatives of the couple, not necessarily related by blood, can surrogate for eligible couples. Also, there is ban on unmarried couples, live-in couples, and transgender people and foreigners.
 
 “Surrogacy is the only option for many couples who want to build their family. Families will break if there is no option of surrogacy. Unfortunately, there is still stigma associated with surrogacy in Kerala and many prefer to travel out for surrogacy and don’t want to talk about it,” said  , director, GIFT-Gyno IVF Centre, Athani.
 
 Though IVF centres are seeing an increase in patients opting for surrogacy, not everyone is interested in it due to legal considerations.
 
 “There are legal hassles associated with surrogacy that I find difficult to manage as a consultant. But people with repeated IVF failure and uterine problems should consider surrogacy as an option,” said Dr Raju Nair, Mitera Fertility Centre, Kottayam.
 
 
 
 Uterus transplantation is being promoted as the next big thing in Kerala.
 
 Two hospitals—Amrita Fertility Centre and Sunrise hospital—have permission for womb transplant.
 
 
 
 Surrogacy is part of third-party reproduction which can include oocytes, sperm and embryos.
 
 India used to attract surrogacy clients from countries like the US, Britain, Australia and Israel till the government introduced stringent procedures.
 
 Gay couples were banned from using commercial surrogacy in 2012.
 
 In March 2017, the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill introduced in the Lok Sabha in November 2016 was sent to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health and Family Welfare for review. It is yet to be enacted.
 
 The Bill allows only altruistic surrogacy – where surrogate mothers undertake surrogacy on grounds of love and compassion without expecting any monetary benefit in return. They are entitled to only medical expenses and an insurance cover.
 
 In Kerala, surrogacy is still not a popular option and is recommended for those who have repeated failed IVF treatment or uterine problems.
 
 But because of fear that commercial surrogacy would be completely banned, more people are now opting for it.
 
 
 In March, 2018, the Union Cabinet gave its approval for moving official amendments to the Surrogacy (Regulation) Bill, 2016 The Bill proposes to regulate surrogacy in India by establishing surrogacy boards in central and state levels Once enacted, the Act will regulate surrogacy services, prevent commercialization and potential exploitation of surrogate mothers.
 
 
