BENGALURU: Two contradicting opinions offered by the   ( ) have left investigators confused in an alleged  , that may have cost the   more than Rs 1 crore, with the complainant claiming the   lost is more than Rs 14 crore.

 In 2011, the complainant and  , approached BDA stating the two educational trusts operating out of civic amenity sites in Basaveshwaranagar had not paid their annual rent for over 30 years, and that their lease agreements had expired in 2004 and 2007 respectively.
 
 “The two plots in question measured 80,000sqft and 30,000sqft, with annual rents of roughly Rs 10,000 and Rs 3,000. The agreements were inked in 1974 and 1977, and since neither of them has paid any rent, the amount including interest and penalties totalled Rs 99 lakh and Rs 5.8 lakh respectively in 2013. Despite the agreements running out more than 10 years ago, neither have they been renegotiated nor has the land been seized by BDA,” he said.
 
 Following the meeting, he said BDA increased the rent considerably. Taking that into account, as of 2017, the trusts owed Rs 14 crore and Rs 1.5 crore respectively.
 
 Since BDA didn’t take up the matter, Adiga approached the Lokayukta in 2012, and then filed a fresh case with the Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) in 2016. The bureau has since been probing the case, which names Karnataka Public Service Commission (KPSC) chairman and former BDA commissioner Sham Bhat.
 
 Documents show BDA had decided to drop charges against the institutions and not collect the money, without consulting legal experts, and took a legal opinion only later. ACB’s investigation indicated that Bhat was at fault, and they wrote to the department of personnel and administrative reforms (DPAR), seeking a sanction to file an FIR against him. 
 
 “DPAR then forwarded this to BDA, which sent an opinion that the former commissioner was guilty. Despite this, DPAR didn’t respond to ACB. Within four months of not getting a reply, ACB, as per a Supreme Court ruling could have filed an FIR, but that too was not done. It was only after I met the IGP, did ACB send a reminder to DPAR, which then sought a second opinion from BDA. However, the current commissioner, Rakesh Singh, said nothing was wrong,” RTI activist Adiga said.
 
 Documents show that ACB was seeking permission from DPAR and that letters had been exchanged between them, beginning January 2016.
 
 Adiga says he will file a case under the Prevention of Corruption Act against officials from DPAR, BDA and ACB in the Lokayukta court. BDA commissioner Singh said he could not comment on the matter as of now.
 
 No truth in allegations
 
 I’ve not even been questioned in this case. ACB only needs permission to prosecute, not question, and they’ve not even done that. This is an attempt to malign my reputation and there is no truth in any of the allegations. The decision to not levy fines on the said institutions were not taken by me, but by the BDA board in a meeting headed by the chairman. There are two resolutions in this regard that prove I was not the decision-maker and that the decision was taken as per prescribed norms
 
 Sham Bhat | former BDA commissioner
 
 
