Kiren Rijiju, MoS, Home Affairs, is perhaps one of the most film frat-friendly ministers. From lining up music concerts in the country's troubled regions to taking actors and singers to meet soldiers, Rijiju has been organising a number of activities with the cine world's celebs. And the latest example of this is the Bharat Ke Veer initiative - a website launched by the home ministry to help civilians contribute to the families of martyred soldiers. While   launched and promoted the website,   has now roped in   to create an anthem for it. The singer-composer recently played the first draft of the anthem for the minister. In a chat with Delhi Times at Rijiju's residence, where Kher played the final version of the anthem, the two share what led to the collaboration. 

  
 After being a part of initiatives like Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and other government-led programmes and festivals across the country, Kher says that he was looking for an opportunity to do something for the armed and paramilitary forces. 
 
  He tells us, "I always wanted to pay my tribute to the forces, to the people who work so hard in situations and circumstances that are tough to imagine for many of us. When I got to know about Bharat Ke Veer and how it is helping the families of martyred soldiers, I was really inspired. I came to know about it through Rijiju ji when I went to Bomdila to perform at Buddha Mahotsava. Later, when I got to know that they want to create an anthem for it, I told them that I would be most happy to do it. Through this anthem, we have paid tribute to the forces."
 
 
  
  
 
 Kher adds, "We are not going for the usual 'tum badhe chalo' sentiment that is often used for soldiers. Instead, we are expressing our gratitude and thanking them for everything they have done for us. A team of around 50 musicians have come together for this one song, and in terms of production, this anthem is at par with the music score in any Hollywood film."
 
 
 The anthem will be officially launched by Union Home Minister Rajnath Singh on January 20. Sharing how Kailash Kher came on board for the anthem, Rijiju said, "I remember that the Delhi Police CP, Amulya Patnaik, had invited me for an event and said, 'You must listen to Kailash Kher singing'. I had never heard him live before that, so I stayed. Maine socha tha main teen gaane sun kar chala jaunga. But once he started singing, I couldn't leave. I texted home and cancelled all meetings. When we decided to have an anthem for Bharat Ke Veer, we thought Kailash Kher would be perfect for it, as he has the passion that is needed to create such a song."
 
  
  
 
  Apart from Akshay Kumar and now Kailash Kher, is the MHA planning to rope in more celebs for Bharat Ke Veer? Rijiju says, "We are not planning to rope in anybody for this as of now. Kailash Kher is devoting so much, so he and Akshay Kumar are enough for now. Later, we might rope in other celebrities."
 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
  
  Kiren Rijiju with Salman Khan
 
 
  
  Kiren Rijiju with Kailash Kher at the Buddha Mahotsav
 
 
 
  
 
 
