We are on fire in your area, chances of a match are 3X higher right now,” reads a push notification on Shekar’s dating app. But despite being single on Valentine’s Day this year, the 20-something isn’t excited to see the 
 message. “What’s the point? These dating apps don’t work anyway... Not in this city at least,” he says, with a defeated sigh. The world at your fingertips, but not Cupid? Why, we wonder.
 
 
 “You see, all Hyderabadi girls want a ‘Mahesh Babu’ if they have to swipe right. Never mind what they look like themselves,” says N Parthu*, an engineering student, adding, “Not all guys are photogenic. So if the DP isn’t spectacular you don’t get matches. But how fair is it to go by just a DP and decide whether to swipe left or right. . . I’m a pretty cool guy, but what chance do I stand in this shallow world of dating apps…?”
 
 
 “If only half the male population on dating apps wasn’t so creepy, we’d not have to be so selective,” sighs  , who admittedly swipes left more than she gets to swipe right. “I once 
 encountered a guy on this app, who was a die-hard   fan and demanded the same from me. ‘Swipe left if you’re not a Pawan Kalyan fan’, his bio read. You can’t put such riders and still complain that you don’t get matches,” adds the student of fashion designing.
 
 
 
 Her friend Srikriti*, while agreeing, points out that most guys on dating sites and apps are downright creepy and behave without a modicum of decency. “A lot of guys think that by joining these apps, you can get easy sex. For them to use dating apps, they must first understand what dating actually means. This is not some escort service, where you press a button and get to have sex,” says Srikirti, who’s clearly given up hopes of finding a fun V-Day date on her app.
 
 
 
 Men, though, think that while there may be the odd creep, women don’t know how to use this app well. “Nobody is naïve enough to expect instant sex. But the whole idea of dating apps is to have casual relationships. Profiles of almost every girl comes with the rider — not here for hook-ups. What’s wrong if you just want to hook up, isn’t it what the app is all about?” asks Sridhar, an IT professional.
 Narrating his own experience while using a dating app, he says, “I once matched with a girl and we met for coffee. However, midway through the date it started feeling like an interrogation. The girl was asking about my habits, my medical history, my annual salary, etc. It felt as if she wanted to gauge if I was an ideal candidate to marry. If girls want to find potential suitors to marry, then why can’t they go to a matrimonial site?”
 
 
 
 As Sridhar narrates his experience with considerable angst, his friend Srikanth pats his shoulder and nods empathetically. “The same thing happened to me. It seems girls are only interested in seeing if you are well settled, work for a big company and get a fat pay cheque. Otherwise, they swipe left and find someone else who ticks all these boxes,” he says.
 
 
 
 Shreya Varma* an architect scoffs at Srikanth’s statement. “What about guys who pretend to be from companies where they don’t even work?” she quips. When asked to elaborate, she says, “Guys think that if they tell a girl that they work at companies like Microsoft, Google or Facebook, they’ll get a successful match. So they cook up some designations and lie that they’re working at one of these companies. Many girls believe them initially, before realising that it’s just a lie. When they get caught in the lie, they turn around and shift the blame on us, saying we have high standards, when in reality it was them who had brought up the names of those companies in the first place.”
 Well, well, Valentine’s Day is here and love may very well be in the air, but looks as if Cupid is playing hard to get, for Hyderabadis on dating apps. As for Sekhar, who seems to have given up, uninstalling dating apps is on the agenda this Valentine’s Day. Love in the time of dating apps is tricky business, we say!
 
