KOCHI: Delay in processing insurance claim amounts to deficiency in service and unfair trade practice by an insurance company, the consumer disputes redressal forum,  , observed.

 
 The forum while hearing the case of a minor who suffered fracture while playing at a park made this observation and asked the insurance company not just to pay the insured amount but also compensate for deficiency in the service offered.
 
  
  
 
 The judgement of the forum delivered last month came on a petition filed by   on behalf of his minor son in Muvattupuzha in 2016. The insurance company was asked to pay Rs 20,000 to compensate the complainant for deficiency of service.
 
 As per the petition,   along with his family visited   park on April 12, 2016. His son while playing on the slide boy fell down and sustained several bodily injuries. Immediately, the boy was taken toa private hospital in Tripunithura.
 
 Doctors diagnosed a fractured elbow. The boy was hospitalised for two days and the total medical expense was around Rs 20, 000. Thereafter, Rajesh approached park officials seeking compensation. The park officials informed Rajesh that they were insured with the   and advised him to lodge the claim before it.
 
 Subsequently, the complainant approached the company seeking insurance claim, but to no avail. The insurance company contended before the forum that they had not received any complaint from Rajesh and hence he was not entitled for any benefits from the company.
 
 But Rajesh produced postal receipts of the complaints he sent to the insurance company and the signed acknowledgment. He also produced evidence including the medical details to prove his claim.
 
 The forum noted that the insurance company could not produce any evidence that they had promptly replied to the complaint filed by Rajesh on July 25, 2016. “The delay in processing the claim is not only deficiency in service but also an unfair trade practice. We are of the opinion that the first opposite party (insurance company) is also liable to compensate for the deficient service offered and for the unfair trade practice happened on their side,” noted the forum headed by president  .
 
 The forum asked the company to process his claim and pay the amount in accordance with terms and conditions of the policy. Besides, it asked the company to compensate Rs 20,000 to Rajesh for deficiency in service and unfair trade practice committed by the latter and it should meet the cost of proceedings of the complainant at the forum.
 
 “We had not received any letter claiming the insurance amount from the complainant. We got details of the claim, he sent us, from the advocate when the case up came in consumer forum. We are yet to receive the copy of the judgement,” said an official of National Insurance Company with the divisional office in Tripunithura.
 
 
