THANE: The stage for   has been set to bid adieu to its   before the board exams begin. An array of activities have been incorporated to make the event a memorable one in the presence of an expected crowd of 10,000 along the Gladys Alwares Road before Happy Streets makes a comeback in summer. 

 Among the hordes of activities, Vijay Suraksha Art Zone will have some of the popular fun games devised for kids and their parents as well. Competitions and prizes will come as bonus for the participants. “We have planned a few interesting fun games for children. Being the concluding weekend of this season we have many things on offer which should not be missed by the visitors,” said an organiser. Self-defense workshop by the   of Thane Paradise will be yet another lead programme of the day which is designed for people across age groups. Continuing Chinese martial arts demonstration and training for young kids Kung Fu session will also be held for everyone to start with in the early morning slot at the main stage before the zumba session kicks off.
 
 “We will surely miss the Sunday morning extravaganza which has been part of our weekend dose. We will explore the possibility of the string of events at the grand finale with friends,” said Suraj Ghag, a regular visitor. The 1.7km non-vehicular patch between   and Happy Valley circle will be abuzz with over a dozen activities for all sections. 
 
 Happy Streets is an initiative of Thane traffic police, TMC, Vijay Group and Suraksha Realty and supported by TOI where people come up with new ideas and concepts to create wider awareness in the society, on various fronts while being engrossed with activities related to sports, fitness and good health, environment, culture, art and entertainment. TOI’s main stage at Khewra Circle will have dance fitness, Bollywood and Zumba, Bokwa, folk fitness,   and jazz performances. Joints-n-Motion will continue to conduct activities like marathon training and fitness routines with the organisers brining in ladders, cones and hurdle stands. Patanjali Yoga instructors have arranged special session for people across age groups. 
 
 
