Chennai: Decent people vacate premises when lease period or licence period expires and when a person does not behave in a decent manner, the only way left is to forcibly throw them out, the Madras high court said on Monday. Justice S Vadiaynathan made the observations, concurring with the submissions of the Railways’ counsel Ramkumar, while directing the 75-year-old Christ King Middle School located in Railway Colony, East Tambaram to vacate about 43,680sqft of land belonging to Railways, occupied by the school since 1938. The school, which at present caters to 1,500 children with 37 teachers and seven non-teaching staff, was allowed to function on the railway land with an objective to provide education to children of railway employees at an annual rent of Rs 1, which was eventually increased to Rs 1,000 per annum. The issue started when southern railway sent a communication to the school claiming Rs 58.62 lakh as rent arrears for the period April 1, 2001 to March 31, 2010. After exchange of several letters between the parties, on December 17, 2010, the railways issued termination of licence under the Public Premises (Eviction of Unauthorised Occupants) Act, 1971, and suggested for an alternative location as per the latest policy and guidelines of railways. Ramkumar submitted that a major portion of the school had been constructed without permission and that the land was urgently required in connection with the proposed project for coaching terminal at Tambaram, to accommodate stabling lines and pit lines at a cost of Rs 11.62 crore. He added that work on the project was held up for want of land. “Taking note of the fact that two existing terminals at Chennai Egmore and Central are saturated, it is imperative to develop the third terminal at Tambaram to cater to the additional demand. The requirement of the land under occupation by the petitioner is therefore for public utility development, which will outweigh the requirement of the petitioner,” the railways said in its petition. Concurring with the submissions of the railways, the court directed the school to vacate the premises immediately after the end of this academic year. On failure to do so, a cost of Rs 2 lakh would be imposed on the school, the court said.