LUDHIANA: Teaching was just an option for elementary teacher  , a former national-level handball player. He wanted to join   under the   quota, but failed to get the job. Then, he prepared for IAS, and also pursued his B.Ed. Meanwhile, he applied for the job of a teacher and got recruited. When he joined the   in  , he was disheartened with the school’s condition. Even so, he never thought of making any effort to transform the school, until the time he desired to have a playground in the school.

 He narrated: “I have been a sportsperson, and I wanted the school to have a playground. Though there was a huge vacant land in the school, which was uneven, there was no playground. I remember one day in September last year, I asked my students if they wanted to have a playground in the school. After the students readily agreed to it, I told them to wait for me in the school after school hours. I had gone home for some work, and came back late, but I was surprised to see all students busy levelling the playground. They picked all stones from the area, and were putting mud over it to make the ground even. They were sweating badly under the sun. However, their dedication and desire to have a playground impressed me. This incident touched me, and I decided then that I would work for them, and this school.”
 
 Further,   added that being a student of a government school, where he used to sit on mats, he wanted this school to have the best of facilities. He recalled: “I used to carry a sack in my school bag, on which I used to sit and attend classes. I have seen that time, and did not want students of this school to face the same. The entire staff of this school and village people helped me, and I am grateful to them for this.”
 
 Narinder is among the few teachers selected by the education department as a role model for other schools. He will be give a presentation to other schools in the state. 
 
 
 
 
 E-library: The school has made a library with donated books. Besides, they have soft copies of 766 books of children’s interest, which are accessible on computers.
 
 Junior Red Cross: The school is claimed to have the lone  , in which all medical facilities, including a bed, has been provided.
 
 Rainwater harvesting system: Water is purified and used for gardening. 
 
 Padho Punjab: The school has topped in Ludhiana-I block under the project. 
 
 District distinction: The school is a district topper in good handwriting. 
 
 Sports achievements: The school teams won medals in kabaddi, football, athletics, and wrestling, the coaching of which is provided by Narinder Singh.
 
 
