By- 
 

 Saraswati Puja was always a youth affair. Way back in the late Fifties or early Sixties, those in their late teens or early twenties looked forward to it as eagerly as their grandchildren do now. And yes, it was the local equivalent of the Valentine’s Day even then, but everything was on a lower key and the concern for ‘propriety’ was much greater.
 
 It had to be so because that was the age of innocence and boys wanted to be known as ‘bhalo chhele’ and so on. Which doesn’t mean nobody was being naughty. Boys were always boys and girls were girls. In colleges and hostels, it was springtime and many a romance took off in and around the puja pandals. Spirits were high during immersion the day after when fights sometimes broke out near the river ghats over the right of passage. But one would think the religious content of the puja received more attention in those days. Today, the fun part is supreme. And youngsters seem to be ready to go to any length to have their fill of entertainment.
 
 Musical soirees were a must and they were different in character. Those were the golden days of ‘adhunik bangla’ songs. Singers like Hemanta, Sandhya and   were at their peak and they dominated the evening. Rabindrasangeet was given due importance though generally it was heard less.
 
 But there were no Bangla bands, no fusion music. It was all about moonlight, pangs of separation and deep sighs, couched in words that sometimes bordered on the funny. But it satisfied the majority of young listeners who were rather green, perhaps a bit naïve when compared to the computer-savvy, mobile-happy   and   of today.
 
 The sixties saw Hindi film music invading the pandals big time. This trend disappeared in the late Seventies when awards for Durga pujas were introduced and it had its impact on Saraswati puja as well.
 
 Purohits had a torrid time, being dragged from pandal to pandal. Today many of them wear jeans and ride bikes. Not that the dhoti-clad pigtail sporting priests have disappeared altogether, but they were the only variety available in the days gone by. For young men, it was also the day for decking up in dhoti and kurta which have fallen from favour.
 
 But girls are stuck to the old norm. On the puja day, they strut about in dazzling yellow sarees as their grandmothers did half a century ago. Saraswati beams at them.
 
 (The author is a veteran journalist)
 
