NAGPUR: Since the start of the main draw the other day, it was Jatin Dahiya, the top seed from Delhi, who hogged all the limelight. Unseeded  , playing fiercely, stole Jatin’s thunder with giant-killing act that knocked the top seed out of the tournament.

 
 The left-handed Shubham stayed deep, played longer rallies and scored plenty of points along the baseline like his idol Rafael Nadal does. The 20-year-old came up with new tricks every now and then to nullify the challenge of his citymate in the longest match of the tournament so far.
 
 In a hard-fought battle that lasted 2 hours 20 minutes, Shubham emerged victorious 6-3, 2-6, 6-4 to enter quarterfinals of Gondwana Club-Dinshaw’s   Ranking Tournament. Shubham, playing only the second big tournament of his career, got off the block in the first set itself. He blocked Dahiya’s rapid serves by staying deep. With his powerful returns, the aspiring player exploited weaker forehand of the 25-year-old Dahiya. It worked for him throughout the match.
 
 “My plan was to avoid playing on Dahiya’s backhand, which is his strength. I made him run across the court and planned to play mostly on his forehand,” Shubham, who idolizes Nadal and his strong baseline game, said.
 
 After winning the first set with ease, Shubham was challenged on every front by his top-ranked rival in the second set. After trailing 1-0, Dahiya fired on all cylinders. He staged a comeback in the second set with four aces and wrapped up quick games to make it 1-1.
 
 In the deciding third set, Shubham, who is ranked 70 in India, made his commanding forehand do the talk. He involved No. 29 ranked Dahiya in two long and tiring rallies of 14 and 16 shots. The rallies coupled with high temperature took toll on Dahiya, who looked tired and kept on wiping his face after each point.
 
 Shubham, on the other hand, was calm in his box and made Dahiya dance to his tricky returns. Exhausted Dahiya kept on committing unforced errors and even got broke twice to concede the match. He had put in a lot of preparation before arriving on the court. “I was mentally prepared for the challenge against the top seed. I knew his aggressive game. So, I had to fine-tune my game accordingly,” Shubham, who lost to ranked 15 Kunal Anand while playing his first big tournament in Mumbai earlier this month, said.
 
 Basil continues to impress: Former junior No. 1 Basil Khuma is exceeding his own expectation each day. Before coming to the tournament, Basil was eyeing to regain his fitness after two years of injury lay off than winning the title.
 
 It was his fifth day in Nagpur and he has five morale-boosting wins under his belt. Now, he has emerged as one of the title contenders. After playing qualifying rounds to enter the main draw, Basil entered the quarterfinal after defeating eighth seed R Rangaraju of Tamil Nadu 7-5, 6-1.
 
 
  Single (PQF): Shubham Malhotra bt 1-Jatin Dajiya 6-3, 2-6, 6-4;   bt Raghav Jaisinghani 7-5, 6-4; S4-Tejas Chaukalkar bt Armaan Bhatia 6-2, 6-4; S6-Vijay Kannan bt Rishab Jha 6-0, 6-1; Basil Khuma bt 8-R.Rangaraju 7-5, 6-1; 3-Anurag Nenwani bt Ajay Pruthvi 6-4, 7-5;   bt 5-Shivam Dalmia 6-3, 6-2; KS Dheeraj bt Ominder Baisoya 6-3, 6-2.
 
