GURUGRAM: Perched on top of an open jeep, a thin man with a thick beard shouted slogans of “Jai Karni Sena”, “Jai Bhawani” and “Rani Padmavati Zindabad”, as others followed in thunderous chorus. Around 200-250 men, who called themselves members of  , came to Subhash Chowk on Sunday morning.

 The group, which blocked the busy Sohna road stretch for at least 5-10 minutes, had started their day from Begampur Khatola village, where they burnt an effigy of Sanjay Leela Bhansali, the director of the controversial big-budget Bollywood film Padmaavat.
 
 At Subhash Chowk, in front of a mall, one of the assembled Sena members, told TOI that while they could not stop the film’s release, they would make sure nobody gets to watch it. The men, who had parked their bikes, cars and jeeps on the middle of the state highway, carried sticks, and poles with saffron flags fluttering on them.
 
 Intermittently, a speaker would get on top of a jeep to shout a few slogans and deliver a short speech invoking Rajput unity. Then the men would go back to taking selfies with the crowd. Around 10 minutes later, the  , along with other cops, asks them to move ahead.
 
 Then they start their bikes and cars and within minutes reach MG Road. Here they block the MG Road metro station entrance. The cops, who are following, start filming protesters on their phones, but make no attempt to stop the demonstration. The protest then moves to Sikanderpur, where the procession takes an Uturn, with men shouting slogans with torsos sticking out of car windows, thumping the ground with sticks, startling commuters with their “Padmaavat dekhne mat jana, nahi to zinda nahi bachoge”, “Hall jala denge agar movie release kari”, till they reach the parking lot of Leisure Valley.
 
 Here, the group, which had swelled to 300, interrupt a cricket match. Meanwhile, five Sena representatives take a car, followed by two PCR vans, and head for the malls — MGF, Sahara, MGF City Centre on MG Road, Mega Mall on Golf Course Road — to distribute pamphlets to multiplex staff. The pamphlets, carrying a photo of Karni Sena leader Lokendra Singh Kalvi, proclaim that “Padmaavat harms sentiment of Hindus and Muslims, and will lead to communal riots and damage of property.”
 
