THANE: Nearly 62 percent of the total   cases registered with the Thane   last year was of the minors aged below 18-years of age — where in the accused has misused his familiarity and exploited women. The statistics from the police department revealed that there is a rise in the total number of cases of crime against women in 2017 in comparison with the previous years. The Kathua and Unnao rapes has again brought back the concern related to the safety of woman, similar to the Nirbhaya rape in 2012, this time the concerning the safety of   child.

 Notwithstanding, the awareness on the safety and security of the women the incidents of crime has triggered fear among the women here. A cursory glance on the total number of cases revels that there is a rise in the incidents of rapes 2017 as compared to the previous years.
 
 In 2015 a total of 251 cases were registered while in 2016, the number had gone down to 224 while it again shot up to 245 in 2017. Even though the detection rate has been over 90 percent in these cases however, the safety of the women remains concern here. Out of the 245 cases nearly 153 cases of rapes were registered by the minor girl in which 144 cases were detected. Nearly 92 cases were registered by the woman above 18-years, with most cases that of luring them with the promises of marriage and raping them.
 
 The police officers claimed that nowdays more women are coming fore to register offences and the police have been told to strictly deal with such complaints of sexual harassments and no officer at the police station can refuse such complaints as they could face serious action if found of refusing to take the complaint.
 
 Even there is a rise in the molestation case as against 564 registred in 2015, the number had gone down to 458 cases it again shoot tup to 505 in the five zones of Thane police commissionerate in 2016. Even though the dip is slightly down, most of the woman has the sense of insecurity especially among the section of working women of the city as the harassment goes unnoticed at public transport or are ignored especially at the crowded railway station premises, public transportation, markets during the peak hours where modesty of women is outraged.
 
 The married woman facing harassment at home too have come fore and raised their voice their in laws. A total of 284 cases were registered of cruelty by husband have been recorded in 2017 out of which 213 cases have been detected. Nearly 22 women were driven to suicide in 2017, the police arrested the in laws in 21 such cases. A senior police officer said, “As against cruelty by in laws, in terms of prevention if any wife in distress comes to police the complaints are taken seriously but most of the time, the married women remains silent that leads to extreme result,” said a police officer.
 
 Another serious concern remains the total number of kidnappings as the over 80 percent of the girls ‘kidnapped’ were minor or under 18 years of age. In most of these case, it has come to notice that these are the cases of elopement which is registered under the kidnapping. "In terms of prevention, we have made elaborate arrangements but most of the times, the accused tend to flee away after committing the crime say in case of bus or trains, our helplines are always there for the women in distress,” said a police officer.
 
 
