One of the major announcements this week was undoubtedly Chiyaan   playing the role of Karna in Ennu Ninte Moideen director RS Vimal’s upcoming film,  , which is touted to be made on a budget of Rs 300 crore.

 While Vimal had earlier announced the movie with  , he says that the team changed their plans midway and opted for Vikram.
 
 “Prithviraj is busy with his directorial Lucifer and has other acting commitments for the next two years. By mid 2017, we had decided to scale up the project to an international level and had apprised Prithviraj of roping in Vikram. He was completely fine with it,” says Vimal.
 
 However, the Ennu Ninte Moideen director says that Vikram had his doubts when he had initially approached him for the movie based on the character in  .
 
 “When I first contacted him on phone, Vikram was sceptical. That’s because in Tamil, Sivaji Ganesan had played   and in Telugu there was an epic film by NT Rama Rao titled Daana Veera Soora Karna. So, he wanted to know how this film was going to be different,” he says.
 
 This prompted the director to meet the actor in person and narrate the screenplay, which he has been working for the past three years.
 
 “Once he heard the script narration and understood the in-depth research for it, he was convinced. Also, we will be using cutting edge technology to recreate this period,” says Vimal.
 
 Apart from Vikram, the movie will have several stars from different film industries with “major   actor playing Bhima,” says Vimal, adding that Dangal’s casting director Mukesh Chhabra is also part of the movie.
 
 While Vikram is no stranger to transforming his body to suit the character, this film too will have him pushing his limits to play the warrior. “He has already started working out and will be trained by international action choreographers abroad for the war sequences of the film,” says the filmmaker.
 
 Mahavir Karna, which will be made in Hindi and released in other languages, will go on floors in October 2018 and is expected to release by December 2019. The movie will be shot in Niagara waterfalls in Canada, Hyderabad and Jaipur.
 
