CHENNAI:   Anbuchezhian who lost his tax battle twice before the settlement commission and a single judge of the Madras  , was third time lucky, as a division bench restrained theincome tax department from taking action against him. The department, however, could proceed with the assessment of his income, the court observed.

 A division bench of Justices S Manikumar and V Bhavani Subbaroyan passed the interim order permitting the assistant commissioner of  , Central Circle 2 (2), Chennai to proceed with the assessment of income of the financier, but restrained them from passing any final order. Senior counsel and advocate-general of   Vijay Narayan argued Anbuchezhian’s case before the bench. 
 
 The financier’s diary notings had film industry’s big names such as actor Rajinikanth’s son-in-law Dhanush, who owed him Rs 29 crore, and actors Radhika and Vishaal as debtors.
 
 Anbuchezhian’s house and offices were searched by   on September 30 and October 1, 2015. Besides Rs 67 lakh in cash recovered from his residential premises,   had filed returns for an income of Rs 5.91 crore for assessment years between 2010 and 2015, but admitted to an undisclosed income of Rs 25.1 crore. 
 
 Similarly, for the assessment year 2016-17, he had originally declared total income of Rs 4 crore, but offered to settle for an undisclosed sum of more than Rs 175 crore.
 
 IT department’s settlement commission, however, rejected his offer on August 10, 2017, saying he had owned up only Rs 175 crore undisclosed sum, whereas transactions as per the seized material was about Rs 357 crore.
 
 Challenging the commission’s order, he approached a single judge of the court, who dismissed his application. Assailing the order, he filed the present appeal.
 
 Vijay Narayan submitted that the settlement commission had not applied its mind properly while rejecting the application. 
 
 “The application has been made under the IT Act by declaring full and true particulars of the income. But the commission did not take note of all the documents filed before it for the purpose of arriving at a conclusion as to whether full and true particulars had been filed,” he said.
 
 
