HYDERABAD: The haphazardly-executed Charminar Pedestrianisation Project (CPP) has brought down the daily earnings of street hawkers by 50-70%, badly affecting the livelihood of hundreds of families.

 A first-of-its-kind scientific field survey carried out through a well-structured questionnaire to assess the social impact of CPP has revealed that the daily earnings of 90% of the hawkers has been hit after their displacement from Charminar and its immediate surroundings. Though authorities concerned were supposed to conduct a social impact assessment (SIA) before taking up CPP, they conveniently ignored it. However, city-based non-governmental organisation   (HHF) carried out the field survey to find out firsthand the impact of badly executed CPP.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 HHF, which works on social empowerment, health and community development, interviewed about 300 hawkers in the last two days covering areas like Gulzar Houz, Kali Kaman, Lad Bazar, Charminar, area opposite Charminar Hospital, Mecca Masjid and TSRTC bus depot. The survey revealed that 10% of hawkers had been doing business for the last two generations. Their business has been affected by CPP after GHMC shifted them from their original spots.
 
 HHF managing trustee   told TOI that earlier each hawker used to make a turnover of between ?2,000 and ?4,000 with a profit of ?800 to ?1,200 a day. Now, sales of about 90% of hawkers have plummeted by 50-70%.
 
 He said 69% of hawkers have families of five members and more while 47% are unable to meet their monthly commitments of rents, utilities, school fees and rations. “About 20% hawkers are unable to meet day to day expenses for livelihood while 25% suffer from medical conditions like diabetes, high blood pressure, back and joint pains. They told us that they are finding it difficult to buy medicines for treatment after loss in trade,”   said.
 
 The survey revealed that earlier customers would buy items from hawkers when they travelled by Charminar. Now, with restricted flow of vehicles, customers have stopped using the Charminar route. This has hit hawkers. The main business hours are now between 5 pm and 11 pm while business during day hours is slack.
 
 Hawkers in the area used to attract tourists and other customers due to cost-effective pricing. Shaik Siddique, who sells bags, said he sells them at 50% less than the retail price. Another hawker, G Gopal Mohan Lal, said his father used to do sell artificial flowers 20 years ago, and after his demise, he has been continuing the business.
 
 “It is evident from the ground level feedback that the CPP has hit poor hawkers hard economically. This will push them further into economic backwardness, debts and poverty soon if suitable remedial action is not taken,” Mujtaba Hasan Askari said.
 
