Arti Singh, who rose to fame as Amba in  , celebrated her birthday recently and it was made all the more special by her brother and comedian  . 

 
 Twinning in black, Arti thanked Krushna for being there for her and making her feel secure. In the post shared by her, she can be seen hugging her brother. 
 
 Alongside she wrote: Secured only in your arms .. I love u to death.. thank u for being there in whatever way u can .... little also make me feel atlest I can depend on u for the worst ... @krushna30
 
  
  
 
 Since no celebration is complete without a cake, Arti shared another picture where she is cutting the cake with Krushna right by her side. She thanked people in the same post as she captioned it as, "Thank u everyone for lovely birthday wishes .. thank u so much .... need blessings.. n strength . Wish your wishes will someday wil work . Love u all .... I know everyone wrote the best f things for me ... I dont know I deserve al those words or not .. but stil it somewhere make me feel very specail .. birthdays brings some special n kind words...thank u thank u thank u"
 
  
  
 Beside Waaris, Arti has done several popular shows on television including  , Comedy Classes, Comedy Nights Bachao and Sasural Simar Ka.
 
 The actress had received international recognition for the work she did on her TV show Waaris in the month of January. 
 
  
  
 She had posted a picture of the same on her Instagram account and captioned it as, "U can try n fail but never fail to try .... quite possible for many people kaun si badi baat hai .. but mere liye hai .. aadat nahi hai awards ki .. 10 years no awards ...aadat nahi hai awards ki finally Nominated for best foreign actor in imc Asia's largest television awards in vietnam ..N bagged trophy for best drama f 2017.. . 10 years n never got an award n my first ever award tht also on international platform .. waris no1 show in vietnam .. what a way to start 2018 .. Thank u god ...   Sharma.... "
 
  
  
 
 Arti is also the niece of Bollywood actor Govinda. 
 
