MYSURU: In a first in history, the damaged tiles of Mysore Palace will be replaced by imports from the United Kingdom (UK). A decision to procure the tiles was taken based on experts’ advice.

 The tiles will be imported from the same company which supplied them over 100 years ago, when the palace was being constructed.
 
 The   Board proposed that new tiles be fixed in place of worn-out ones inside the Palace, and suggested to the heritage technical committee, headed by former IAS officer Chiranjiv Singh, that they be replaced as part of its conservation project. The heritage committee is reported to have given its nod for new tiles for the 106-year-old palace, which receives nearly 33lakh visitors every year.
 
 The Palace Board Committee approached the royal family with the detailed   plan and got permission to take up work. The family members also gave an assurance that they will assist in importing new tiles from UK. Experts will take the final decision on the tiles.
 
 Mysuru Palace Board executive officer and deputy commissioner D Randeep told TOI, “The main idea behind replacing the damaged tiles is to preserve the iconic heritage structure which is more than 100 years old. The board held a meeting regarding laying of new tiles, new stained glass and to preserve valuable paintings at the palace, before proposing it to the expert committee.”
 
 Experts also proposed renovation of the interiors of the palace. The intention of importing from UK is to retain originality by using materials from the company that supplied them at the time of construction, said Randeep.
 
 The Board also proposed to the committee that old stained glass be replaced with imported glass from Glasgow, Ireland, from where they were brought during construction. The Board asked the committee to establish an in-house conservation research and development laboratory in the palace, which the committee agreed to. The laboratory will work exclusively to conserve, preserve and restore valuable paintings, structures, and other heritage repair work. Currently, they have to approach   of Cultural Property of Lucknow for restoration work. 
 
 Mysuru Palace Board deputy director TS Subramanya said that “The renovation plan of the palace has been brought to the notice of the Mysore royal family. Work has been proposed to the expert committee, which will announce its final decisions at the next meeting, scheduled to take place next month. The committee members will form a team and estimate the cost of renovation work.”
 
 
