CHANDIGARH: The suspended SHO of Hisar women’s police station,  , accused of running a   racket, has been granted interim bail by the Punjab and Haryana high court. 

 Saroj, who was booked after the state vigilance bureau caught her driver red-handed while receiving bribe, was on the run for around a month. “The petitioner is directed to surrender before the police and join investigation in two weeks. In the event of her arrest being required, she shall be released on interim bail till the next date, subject to her furnishing bonds to the satisfaction of arresting officer,” ordered Justice Surinder Gupta, while staying her arrest. 
 
 The bail plea was heard on May 25, but the orders were released on Tuesday. With this, there will be a stay on her arrest till August 31, when the court will hear the matter again. In her plea to the court, Saroj accused Sharif Singh, deputy superintendent of police (state vigilance bureau), of acting against her because of a grudge.
 
 According to Saroj, a woman had filed a complaint in which she had named the complainant as a coaccused. The complainant was called to the women’s police station, she said. “The case has been registered due to the petitioner’s enmity with   Sharif Singh. She had received a complaint against him, but the two sides struck a compromised and the petitioner refused to register an FIR on an application by his wife. As per police version, recovery of bribe money has been effected from the driver of petitioner and no recovery has been made from her,” counsel for the SHO had argued.
 
 The woman cop had gone elusive after the registration of the corruption case against her. The vigilance team caught Surender Singh, her driver, and  , manager of a private hotel, on April 29, while accepting a gratification of Rs 70,000 from a local resident, who was booked by women’s police station in a case of rape. 
 
 During interrogation, the two revealed that of the total Rs 70,000, inspector Saroj Bala was to get Rs 60,000 while the remaining Rs 5,000 were to be pocketed by each of them. The complainant in this case had alleged that he came in contact with a woman, who was part of the alleged honeytrap gang. Acting on her complaint, a case of rape was registered against him. The complainant alleged that Saroj was investigating the case and had demanded Rs 3 lakh from him.
 
