PUNE: The state cabinet on Tuesday approved the setting up of an independent   commissionerate for  , almost a decade after a proposal to this effect was mooted for the twin township.

 In response to a text message sent by TOI, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “Cities like Amravati and Aurangabad, which have much less population as compared to Pimpri Chinchwad have police commissionerates. Urbanisation is high in Pune district. Urban and rural policing are very distinct in terms of challenges. Hence, we felt it necessary to create a separate commissionerate.”
 
  
  
 
 A release issued by the chief minister’s office stated: “The home department has proposed an expenditure of Rs 323 crore for the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate, which would cover a population of 22-23 lakh, including 4-5 lakh from the rural areas around the twin industrial township.”
 
 The Pune-Mumbai expressway, Pune-Mumbai highway, Pune-Nashik highway and Katraj-Dehu Road bypass will fall under the jurisdiction of the new police commissionerate.
 
 The proposal further provides that a part of the overall police posts required for the new police commissionerate will be carved out from the Pune police commissionerate and the remaining posts will be a fresh sanction. Rs 110 crore will be required towards establishment cost, Rs 23 crore towards maintenance and Rs 118 crore for new constructions, a proposal submitted to the finance department stated. 
 
 A senior Pune police   said the new commissionerate was on the anvil for quite some time now considering the rapid expansion of the twin township which has been fuelled by economic, real estate and industrial growth. “The areas to be covered by the new commissionerate have a sizeable population, including labourers who have migrated from other parts of the state and from outside Maharashtra. Criminal activities have been on the rise over the last few years. As of now, there is only one officer of the rank of a deputy commissioner of police for all these areas, which is clearly insufficient,” he said. 
 
 “The industrial belts in Pimpri Chinchwad have a large number of labour unions and are also politically sensitive. The number of gangs and organised crime are on the rise, making it imperative to have a full-fledged policing machinery,” he said. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police   had on March 23 inspected six municipal offices and a property of the Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority for establishing the new police commissioner’s office. The inspection team included officials from the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. It has found the ‘F’ ward office and the PCNTDA suitable for the new police commissioner’s office. A final location is, however, yet to be decided. 
 
 Retired IPS officer Rajendra Sonawane said, “Former additional commissioner of police Dhananjay Kamlakar had identified a 125-acre land belonging to the social forestry department for setting up the police commissioner’s office in Dehu Road way back in 2007-08, but nothing happened after that. The government should take a call on setting up a state anti-terrorism cell, forensic science laboratory, regional transport office, excise department, income-tax office, a jail unit, sessions and civil courts and a high court bench and create other facilities while starting a police commissionerate.” 
 
 Sonawane said the government should issue a special notification for recruiting policemen for the new commissionerate as the process of recruiting personnel is on in Pune, Pune rural and other places in the state.
 
 
