PATNA: The state urban development and housing department (UDHD) has warned the developers and promoters of ten upcoming projects in and around Patna against against advertising and marketing their projects without getting them registered with the   Regulatory Authority ( ).

 “Certain promoters have been found to be advertising and marketing their new projects without giving the RERA registration number in the advertisement... This is a brazen violation of the RERA norms,” department’s principal secretary Chaintanya Prasad Prasad told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 The RERA,   has been established under Section 22(1) of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 of the government of India. As per Section 3 of this Act, it is mandatory for the promoters to register their plot, apartments (flats) or buildings where the area to be developed exceeds 500sqm or the number of apartments (flats) to be developed exceeds eight.
 
 Non-registration of the projects with RERA, according to Section 59 of the central Act, may invite imprisonment up to three years. As per the state law, the violator can also be fined 10% of the estimated cost of the real estate project. 
 
 The projects that have been issued notices by the department include the Future City-Bihta, Dream City-Bihta, Om Shiv Complex-Bihta, Moti Mahal City-Bihta, Dream Valley- Babhanpura (Patna), Modern City-Fatehpur (Ganjpur, Patna), RN City-Saguna Mor and the PM City-Bihta Road.
 
 The department has also issued notices to a project being developed on the Danapur-Bihta road by Ashirvad Engicon Real Estate Pvt Ltd and the H2O City-Shivala being developed by Anshul Home. 
 
 Prasad said the notices sent to these ten projects should be considered as a warning for others too. He also urged buyers not to invest in the properties that have not been registered under RERA.
 
 Till date, only one project has been registered with the RERA- Bihar, and the registration of five others is under process. Prasad attributed the poor number of registrations to lack of proper documents.
 
 To get the registration number, developers have to apply online to the RERA and submit offline the approved map of the project, land document, type of agreement with buyers, details of plan of each floor, carpet area to be handed over to the buyers and a declaration of the developer. 
 
 
