KOCHI: Writer   inaugurated the  , the literary fest organized as part of  , on Tuesday evening at Marine Drive. 

 
 "Kerala is a state I have been deeply envious about, on various fronts. From early childhood, my parents used to tell me about Kerala, about how it is a land of literature and readers. If I could, I would have settled in this state," said Nagarkar adding that he missed the presence of  , the doyen of Malayalam letters who couldn't make it to the venue due to health issues. 
 
 The Mumbai-based author who writes in English and Marathi spoke about the significance of mother tongue and the need to know it assuredly. The literary festival will be held at Bolgatty Palace from Wednesday.
 
 The book fest which commenced five days ago has been evoking a positive response, cooperation and tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran said in a statement. 
 
 "Over the duration of five days since the beginning of the book fest, books worth over Rs 1 crore has been sold. The scheme 'A book for a child,' which could be the first-of-its-kind, brought about the sale of books worth Rs 11 lakh so far. Most of the buyers were kids belonging to lower primary sections. The love for books the youngest generation has is certainly rejoicing," the minister said. Novelist C Radhakrishnan said that it is the first time that he is witnessing a book fair which is as well-organized and developed as Krithi is. "In our country where free speech and freedom of expression is assaulted, I would say that each of you should enjoy this   like the last supper you would ever have. I fear if any such open and unbiased literary festival will happen in our country in the future," Radhakrishnan said.
 
 K Sachidanandan, who spoke at the event, resonated the view and remarked: "An unbiased, government-organized lit fest of this magnitude being held at a time in the history of our country when writers fear to write, when open discussions are denied space and free speech is repudiated, is beyond commendable."
 
 
