Panaji:   was expected to return to Goa after a short holiday in Spain but instead missed his flight. The Spanish forward should have resumed his training with   early this week but chose to stay at home, leaving officials stranded at the airport.
 
  Lanzarote’s decision to stay in Spain surprised many. The star man blamed it on a small injury that held him back but given the importance of the tournament that Goa are participating next – the   – his dilly-dallying should not be a surprise.
  
  The first edition of the Super Cup comes at a wrong time. Much after the culmination of the biggest prize in Indian football, Indian Super League (ISL), the Super Cup doesn’t offer much; there is no AFC Cup spot on offer and the prize money – compared to the riches of the ISL – is peanuts.
  
  It’s peak summer too, and in Bhubaneshwar where the matches will be played, things can get really uncomfortable.
  
  “I cannot comment on how the other (franchises) have approached the Super Cup but we are doing in all seriousness. We have top professionals. Given the love and affection of our fans, this is a big opportunity,” said coach Derrick  .
  
  It’s a big opportunity for the Goan franchise to win something this season. Having played fantastic football all through the season, they were second best to Chennaiyin FC in the semifinals and nobody would grudge them of the title, even if it came at the cost of ‘league leaders’ Bengaluru FC.
  
  For   himself, this is another big chance to prove himself. Not that anyone doubts his coaching credential; he’s won everything on offer, both as player and coach in India, but being the first Indian to have been handed full charge of a franchise, his success could put an end to doubts that Indian coaches are good enough only for secondary roles.
  
  “We are learning (in the ISL). It’s a process. In due time, India coaches will take over,” he said.
  
  For now, Derrick’s focus is only on ensuring Goa wins its first trophy, never mind if it’s not the ISL. Fortunately for him, the players are hungry for success, as evident in the words of Spanish midfielder Eduardo Bedia. “For us, ISL and Super Cup, both are important tournaments. We are focused,” said  .
  
  The former Barcelona midfielder will miss the presence of his Moroccan partner Ahmed Jahouh who has opted to return home. Hopefully, Lanzarote will join the squad within the next 48 hours, and when Goa open their campaign against former ISL champions ATK – who they defeated 5-1 in Goa this season – on Tuesday, they will have something to celebrate.
  
  At the end of a hard ISL season, the players cannot be blamed if they wanted to be at home with their dear ones rather than on the field. But like Edu said, “there is work to do.”
  
  
  
  
