PATNA: The Intermediate (Class XII) exams conducted by the   (BSEB) concluded peacefully on Friday at 1,384 centres across the state. The examinations had started with biology, entrepreneurship, philosophy and Hindi papers on February 6 and ended with home science and economics papers.

 Three candidates — one each from Jehanabad, Madhubani and Siwan — were expelled for using unfair means during the exams on the last day. Around 1.63 lakh examinees appeared for home science and 19,102 for the economics paper. In Patna alone, at least 8,598 students appeared for home science and another 8,484 students took the economics exam.
 
 According to the data released by the BSEB, altogether 985 candidates were barred from writing exams of 32 subjects for the use of malpractices.   district accounted for highest number of 106 ‘cheating’ cases, followed by 86 in Saran, 61 each in Saharsa and Madhepura, 58 in Bhojpur, 56 in Nawada, 41 in Aurangabad, 38 in Vaishali, 37 in Siwan, 34 in Nalanda, 33 in Jehanabad, 32 each in Madhubani and Jamui, 29 in Samastipur, 28 in Sheikhpura, 27 in Munger, 26 in Patna, 25 each in Supaul and Begusarai, 24 in Arwal, 20 in Buxar, 16 in Khagaria, 12 each in Lakhisarai and Rohtas, 11 each in Bhagalpur, Katihar and  , nine in Banka, seven in  , five in Kaimur, four in Sheohar, three each in East Champaran and Darbhanga and one each in Purnea and Araria.
 
 Three districts, including Kishanganj, Sitamarhi and West Champaran recoded zero cases of malpractices during the exams.
 
 Also, 25 examinees were caught for writing papers for others. Nawada topped with six cases and was followed by Gaya (four), Madhepura (four), Nalanda (two), Begusarai (one), Madhubani (one), Saharsa (one), Rohtas (one), Araria (one), Siwan (one), Arwal (one), Bhojpur (one) and Bhagalpur (one). The board has registered an FIR against three invigilators for violation of examination duty norms at centres in Vaishali, Sheikhpura and Madhubani.
 
 According to BSEB chairman Anand Kishor, the efforts of the board to check malpractices in the Inter exams yielded good results. “All the exams went peacefully with the help of district magistrates, education officers, police personnel and teachers. We hope the board will also conduct the Matriculation exams in a fair manner,” he said.
 
 Students will write the English paper on the first day of the Matric exams from February 21.
 
 
