GURUGRAM: Residents of   2 and 3 have decided not to pay maintenance charges to the developer, saying services are not up to the mark.

 The decision comes weeks after a section of the residents had organised a demonstration outside the developer’s office on January 6, protesting a three-time hike in maintenance fee. 
 
 The fee was reportedly raised from 30 paisa per sq ft to Re 1 recently.
 
 MS Yadav, the president of the Sushant Lok Extension Residents’ Welfare Association, said: “We have been suffering despite paying such a high cost for maintenance. For instance, there are only 11 sanitation workers for the 550-acre area. 
 
 “Roads are in a pathetic condition. Many pedestrians and motorists have met with accidents because of potholes and non-maintenance of roads by the developer. We have, therefore, decided not to pay any maintenance fee until the services are improved.”
 
 The residents also complained about a rise in the number of thefts.
 
 “In the past three months, more than six thefts have taken place in the area. When we complained to the developer that security was not up to the mark and there was a need to increase the number of guards, we were told by a senior official they couldn’t stop thefts in the area. The developer is not sensitive towards safety needs of the society. Why should we pay such a high amount in the name of maintenance charges?” said Rashmi, a resident of Sushant Lok 3.
 
 According to advocate  , the developer also hasn’t given any audit of the services.
 
 “The developer is using the maintenance fee as a source of income. The residents are not being given any details of the expenditure on infrastructure and other services,” he said.
 
 Told about the allegations,  , the vice-president of  , the developer, said: “The services were offered at merely 30 paisa per sq ft. It is not possible to offer proper services without adequate funds. If the residents don’t pay maintenance, we will have no option but to stop providing the services to them.”
 
 Sushant Lok 2 and 3 have nearly 3,500 plots and a population of over 50,000.
 
 
