MANGALURU:   will on Monday kick-start party activities in the run up to the assembly elections in the state from the coastal belt.

 Shah will visit Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada from Monday evening to Wednesday night. He will visit the residence of  , a Bajrang Dal activist who was murdered by fringe elements on January 3. However, his itinerary has no mention of a visit to the residence of Basheer who was killed in retaliation to the death of Deepak. He will also address the students at Vivekananda College, Puttur, on the topic ‘The role of youth in shaping the country’.
 
 MP Nalin Kumar Kateel said on Sunday, that Shah’s visit is intended towards boosting the morale of BJP workers and training them for the upcoming elections. “No issues pertaining to finalizing candidates for the polls will be discussed on the occasion,” he said. According to Kateel, Shah will tour the entire state, including the coast, twice before the elections.
 
 “During his visit, Shah will set the stage for our workers to get into ‘war’ mode. He will strengthen the party internally,” Kateel said.
 
 Training guns on the Congress, Kateel said the grand old party had gotten unsettled after Shah announced his visit, and hence had been making impertinent statements against him.
 
 Earlier Dinesh Gundu Rao, working president, Karnataka Congress, had said Shah will trigger communal tension during his visit. U T Khader, minister for food and civil supplies, had reiterated the statement. Countering this, Kateel said Shah did not have a history of brewing communal tension in the coast. However, Siddaramaiah did. “Siddaramaiah visited Dakshina Kannada and RSS leader Sharath Madiwala was murdered soon after. When he visited Uttara Kannada, Paresh Mesta was killed. He addressed a gathering in Bengaluru, and RSS leader Rudresh R got murdered. He went to Mysuru, and Rajesh was killed,” Kateel said. 
 
 The MP expressed confidence that the BJP will sweep all the eight constituencies in the district. Currently, the saffron party has only one constituency in its kitty.
 
 
