 sarpanch Domingos Fernandes told TOI that “there were only two issues raised at the   on Sunday. Members opposed the planning development authorities (PDAs) claiming that it would change the demography of the village. They also sought that instead of EVMs, ballot papers be used for voting during elections. Resolutions were also passed during the gram sabha.” Deputy sarpanch   said, “(Aam Aadmi Party) AAP member Rodney Almeida and Vincy Fernandes raised these demands and inquired about the delay in constructing the panchayat ghar. The meeting proceeded smoothly, and ended within thirty minutes.”

 
 
 
 Frequent power outages and the lack of public transport on Sundays were the two major issues discussed at the Macazana gram sabha on Sunday. Former sarpanch and panch member Christine Vaz said, “Macazana villagers were aggrieved with the frequent interruptions in power supply. The villagers are also annoyed with private bus operators for not plying on Sunday.” There are two or three private buses plying in the village on a daily basis, but they do not operate on Sundays.
 
 
 
 
 Guirdolim gram sabha members on Sunday requested the panchayat to seek legal opinion regarding the issue of acquiring a playground for the village. Deputy sarpanch Franky Rodrigues chaired the meeting in the absence of sarpanch Malisha Carvalho as the latter is on leave. Rodrigues said a special gram sabha had been summoned, but the matter remained unresolved. The private party has imposed certain terms and conditions on the panchayat, insisting that the old playground (shown in the regional plan) be vacated within three months, whereas the panchayat has sought six months to do so. Local Congress MLA Clafasio Dias was also present at this meeting.
 
 
 
 Gram sabha members of Rumdamoll-Davorlim on Sunday questioned the delay in undertaking pre-monsoon works. “The villagers were apprehensive that their homes would be flooded in the forthcoming monsoon. Two panch members—Shivdas Naik and Vinayak Volvoikar—raised this matter,” deputy sarpanch Madhubala Shirodkar told TOI. Shirodkar said pre-monsoon works would commence within a day or two. Five panch members of the seven-member village panchayat were present, while   MLA Luizinho Faleiro was absent for the gram sabha.
 
 
 
 
 Curtorim gram sabha on Sunday opposed the circular issued by the director of panchayat (DoP) disallowing any other business to be taken up at the meeting. Members opposed this restriction, stating that it is not in the interest of the gram sabha. In the past, proposals by members submitted in advance were listed on the agenda and discussed. Any other business raised at the last minute was allowed. The issue of development works costing Rs 18 lakh was also discussed.
 
 
