Bengaluru: Eleven days after the education department launched a portal for parents to apply for 1.4 lakh school seats under RTE quota in the state, the software has developed glitches, activists have alleged.

 The site not only hangs midway while details are being entered, but it also delays entering OTPs. Server errors and frequent system crashes have left hundreds of parents helpless, said the activists, adding that with online applications being the only way for parents to apply, it is crucial that the system functions optimally.
 
 Ramakrishnappa, an autorickshaw driver earning Rs 500 daily, has been trying to submit application for one of his three children from February 20, the day the facility was launched. Despite repeated visits to BengaluruOne centres and block education offices where citizens can apply under the quota, he was only able to submit the form on March 2.
 
 “I want at least one of my children to get a good education. They ask for Rs 30,000-40,000 fee for admission in private schools and so we thought this is a good scheme. On the first day itself, we were told that there is a server issue. I made it a point to go two-three times a week to check if the application will go through, but it didn’t until Friday,” said the resident of Agrahara Dasarahalli, west Bengaluru.
 
 According to members of the RTE Students and Parents Association (RTE STUPA), an organisation of 600 concerned parents, activists and others, the government needs to step up and take responsibility for the trouble ensuing. 
 
 RTE STUPA is setting up 32 online application centres in the city, and one each in Mandya, Mangaluru and Shivamogga districts from March 3 to help parents file applications till March 21. 
 
 “While the authorities are claiming that a few thousand applications have been successfully received, we are facing a tough time helping parents. The official helpline for queries is that of our association and we have been getting frantic calls every day. The server is still posing a problem, applications sometimes go through if they are filed at odd hours. Even the software development centre executives using the portal have trouble with it,” B N Yogananda, RTE STUPA, told a press conference here on Friday. 
 
 Ramesh Haresamudram, member of Indus Action, an NGO, said problems of digital connectivity, middle-class citizens using fake income certificates and the difficulties for the common man to apply, were diluting the spirit of the Act. “The Act is being misused and deserving people are missing out. The child’s Aadhaar and the parent’s Aadhaar with the correct mobile number is essential to the process. If more needy people apply, the chances of a fraudulent middle-class citizens securing the seat will reduce. The process needs to be made simpler and senior officials need to look into it,” he said.
 
 Online application centres
 
 Dial helpline number 7022422495 or 08030474949, a toll free number attended by partner organization Indus Action, to know your nearest online application centre. 
 
 
