PATNA: The state government will not collect any   on the bridges constructed by Bihar Rajya Pul Nirman Nigam Limited (BRPNNL) from April 1, road construction department (RCD) minister Nand Kishore Yadav announced in the assembly on Monday.

 Giving the government’s reply to the debate on the Rs6,889 crore budgetary demand of the department for 2018-19, Yadav said   tax was earlier collected on 116 BRPNNL bridges in the state, but the number was reduced to 54 for the purpose. The collection on the remaining bridges would also be discontinued from April 1, as per the directive of CM Nitish Kumar, he added.
 
 While the budget was passed by the House, Congress member Ramdeo Rai moved a cut motion to initiate the debate and the opposition members led by   walked out midway through the minister’s reply.
 
 Yadav said 10 subdivisional headquarters would be linked with their respective district headquarters through two-lane roads. Similarly, 184 blocks would also be connected by two-lane roads with their respective district headquarters, he added. Besides, the government has decided to do arrangement for lights on all the mega road bridges and the roads approaching the towns.
 
 The minister said the government has adopted futuristic plan for Patna, taking its expected population of 60 lakh in 2030 as the base to ease the emerging mega city’s traffic load and, accordingly, the work has begun with regard to planning and construction of mega roads, road overbridges and other bridge projects. He mentioned the 165km-long ring road, Digha-Deedarganj Ganga Path, Lohia Path, Zero Mile to Masaurhi four-lane road and Digha-AIIMS elevated road.
 
 Once the ongoing and upcoming projects for bridges across the Ganga are completed, the river would have 16 bridges in the state. Work is also underway on the sanctioned bridges over Gandak, Kosi, Sone, Bagmati and Falgu rivers.
 
 Yadav said the Aurangabad-Darbhanga-Jainagar four-lane road, apart from Sasaram-Patna four-lane and Rajauli-Bakhtiarpur four-lane roads have to be constructed as part of the Bharat Mala road network planned by the Centre. He said the Centre has also sanctioned four-laning of Mokama-Bhagalpur section of NH-80 and Khagaria-Purnia section of NH-31. The DPR is also being prepared for the Ayodhya-Janakpur road (Ram-Janaki Path), as planned by the Centre. 
 
 He said the Centre had allotted Rs54,700 crore as part of the special package for the state, including Rs30,000 crore for 500km of national highways and Rs24,700 for the preparation of detailed project reports (DPRs) of the roads concerned. Overall, 82 projects have been sanctioned by the Centre for the purpose. Work orders had been allotted after completing the tendering process on 45 projects, while the tendering process has to be done with regard to 12 others and DPRs of 25 projects were being prepared.
 
 
