Chennai: Kunal Ved, a relationship manager in a private bank, is taking up an e-learning course to upskill himself on ‘Imarticus’, a digital learning platform. “The course is not completely online and we meet co-learners for a few days every month to discuss varying experience levels and get a better sense of the course. Besides, we have the flexibility of accommodating our work schedules and course timings,” he said. Even as corporates adopt e-learning platforms and micro-learning to upskill their employees, classroom teaching has not lost its sheen. Blended learning – a combination of online courses and offline touch points – is increasingly adopted by corporates and individuals. E-learning service providers see a 25%-30% increase in companies opting for blended learning over 100% classroom or e-learning courses. Facilitating discussions and collaborative learning, blended learning offers flexibility for working professionals and also fosters better completion rates. “For those looking for employment and new career opportunities, 30% of the course is recommended to be acquired online and those who want to upskill look for 20% of the course contents through touch points, since it facilitates collaborative learning, “said Nikhil Barsikhar, MD, Imarticus learning Experts from the field are roped in to offer the missing links in e-learning components. ‘Udacity’ offers the course in its B2B offering to corporates for its nanodegree programmes. The company recently partnered with Infosys for ‘UdacityConnect’, a combined in-person and online training offering in autonomous vehicles. “The 20-week program is training select Infosys engineers in self-driving car technology, including advanced concepts of deep learning and machine learning. It is a blended learning model which commenced with virtual classes and then converted to in-person trainer led classes at the Mysore campus of the company,” said Ishan Gupta, MD, Udacity India. Companies say that for courses done solely on e-learning, completion rates are at around 30%. “Learners find the drive to take up courses for hybrid or blended learning, because of collaborative learning and the personal touch. The completion rates have doubled and have gone up to 90%,” said Mohan Lakhamraju, founder and CEO, Great Learning. For greater flexibility, the platform, which offers courses for analytics also facilitates a transfer to the next batch and 5% of the students every batch can continue from where they left off during their regular course. “Even those who miss out on classes can catch up with recorded & livestreamed videos,” he said.