AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad zonal unit of the directorate of revenue intelligence (DRI) busted a smuggling racket run by a syndicate operating from Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Nagpur and Bangalore. Acting on an input from  , the air intelligence unit of Customs at Mumbai airport nabbed three persons and recovered 3.15kg of foreign-origin gold from them. Nearly 2kg of gold was seized from two other persons, at Bangalore and Nagpur, respectively.

    officials received intelligence that a smuggling syndicate was operating at Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Nagpur and Bengaluru airports. Its officers kept watch and apprehended a member of the syndicate at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) airport and recovered 1kg of gold being smuggled in from Dubai. 
 
 The accused had smuggled the gold in the form of 24-carat chains and bangles, said DRI officials.
 
 Three other members of the syndicate were caught by the air intelligence unit at Mumbai airport, from whom 3.15kg of gold was seized. Officials said, “One of the three persons had concealed 1.2kg of gold in his rectum. He received the bullion at Dimapur in Nagaland from an international smuggler. The international smuggler had brought it into India from Bangkok via Myanmar.
 
 “The second person had concealed 1.2kg gold a hand bag, which he had taken from another international smuggler in Delhi, who had brought it into India from Hong Kong. 
 
 “These two persons travelled from Guwahati to Mumbai via Delhi, to evade Customs. These two persons would travel using fake identities to avoid being tracked by Customs or other agencies,” said officials of DRI.
 
 The third member of the syndicate came from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia and had concealed 750g of gold in an electronic device, added officials.
 
 Similarly, two other smugglers coming from Sharjah and Dubai were caught at Nagpur airport by Nagpur DRI and at Bangalore airport by the AIU. Around 1kg of gold was seized from each of them.
 
 “Thus, 5.2kg of gold with a market value of Rs 1.62 crore was seized and six smugglers were arrested under the Customs Act, 1962 on the basis of the DRI intelligence input,” said officials.
 
 “The 10% basic Customs duty and 3% IGST on gold imports makes smuggling lucrative, as smugglers can make a profit of more than Rs 3 lakh per kilogram of f smuggled gold,” said officials.
 
 
