NAGPUR: In a scene straight out of a Bollywood potboiler, four siblings were reunited with their missing mother 30 long years after they had given up on her for dead.

 Adding further sweetness to the heartwarming family reunion was the fact that the mother was cured of the mental illness that had driven her away from home.
 
 For  , 35, his younger brother and two elder sisters from Sohgaon village in Chhattisgarh’s   district, the news that their mother Ghurenbai, aka Rekha was still alive, hit them like a bolt from the blue. Some 30 years ago, she had left home in a mentally disturbed state, never to be heard of since.
 
 Nagpur’s regional mental hospital (RMH) which had been Ghurenbai’s home for the last 11 years, was the setting for this tear-jerking reunion on Monday. While the mother understandably could not recognise the little children she had left behind three decades ago, it was a different story for her now adult children. The family was at a complete loss when it came to dealing with the overwhelming situation.
 
 “While I cried with joy, my sister Sumitra ran out to inform the neighbours that our mother is alive. We contacted our maternal uncle Ghururam Jurry and began planning a visit to Nagpur,” Manish told TOI while completing formalities to get his mother discharged from RMH.
 
 Manish could not fight back tears of happiness at seeing his beloved mother again, while Sumitra simply couldn’t wipe her smile off her face nor tear her eyes away from her long-lost mother.  , the elder sister, however remained composed as she calmly tried to come to terms with the enormity of the moment.
 
 Ghurenbhai’s brother Ghururam and her neighbour Ashamati were also part of the joyous occasion. RMH authorities had sought their presence to verify her identity. She instantly recognised both of them.   was registered under the name of Rekha at RMH on August 27, 2007 after being sent there under magisterial orders from  , where she had been found wandering. Nobody knows who gave her the name nor how she reached there or her whereabouts prior to it.
 
