NAGPUR: Exactly a month after he started his European sojourn, 12-year-old Raunak   scripted history in Romania on Monday.

 
 As reported exclusively by TOI on Sunday, the city   prodigy became Nagpur's second and Maharashtra's youngest International Master (IM) during the Felix Cup rating tournament in Romania. Last year, 16-year-old Harshit Raja of Pune had become youngest IM of Maharashtra.
 
 Having completed all the three requisite norms of becoming an IM on April 21, Raunak, with his father  , left home to earn the remaining 22 rating points by participating in international competitions in Spain and Romania. Before the May 13-20 tournament in Spain and the May 25-28 Felix Cup meet in Romania,   played in the All India rapid and blitz tournament in Ahmedabad and took advanced training from Tajikistan GM   in a five-day camp at Pune.
 
 During the training Amonatov kept focus on making Raunak mentally stronger by instilling the 'No Fear' factor in his young ward. While the Tajikistan GM headed for the Kolkata GM open meet, Raunak went to Spain with an aim to gain the required Elo points.
 
 
  
 
 With a handful of upsets, he garnered 13.2 Elo points in Spain and after staking his claim to become country's latest IM in the fifth round of the Romania meet, Raunak dominated the proceedings to finish on top of the table. Starting as a 10th seed, he underlined his supremacy in the seven-round tournament and also collected 18 rating points.
 
 Playing two international tournaments in May, Raunak collected 31.2 rating points to achieve his target and take his tally of Elo points to 2409. With the winners' trophy and the much-desired IM certificate, Raunak headed home from Romania almost after a month on Monday night.
 
 Having cleared his first IM norm in July last year at Czech Republic, Raunak achieved the second norm at Gibraltar in February before winning his final norm during the Sharjah Masters Championship in April. In just a month, he achieved the desired result and the city produced an IM after 19 long years. Anup Deshmukh is the only other IM from the city who attained the title in 1999.
 
 Elated with his achievement Raunak said, "I am glad with my success. This IM title will give me a lot of self-belief and confidence. I don't want to stop here. I will work harder now as my next aim is to become Grand Master soon and represent India in prestigious International events."
 
 "I want to thank God, my parents, my mother ( ), coaches GM Swapnil Dhopade and GM Amonatov Farrukh for their guidance and support," he added.
 
 Raunak's coach and  's only GM Dhopade said, "Raunak came to me when he was 10. I realized that he is extremely talented and hard working and has a bright future. To become an IM at such young age is an amazing achievement. He worked really hard for this. A huge credit to his parents who always remained hopeful of his future. Parents support is the most important thing for sportsman and Raunak's parents always supported him. I feel he will achieve greater things in life. The next step is the Grand Master Title."
 
