NEW DELHI: Trade bodies and market associations across the capital expressed dismay at the   staying the Delhi Development Authority’s proposed amendments in Master Plan Delhi 2021 on Tuesday. They argued this worsened the situation created by the   of commercial premises in Delhi that violated the norms of the master plan and hit the livelihoods of lakhs of people.

 The trade associations demanded that the central government pass a bill in the current session of Parliament to place a moratorium on the sealing till a final solution is found. “With the stay by the apex court, the matter has become more complicated,” said Praveen Khandelwal, general secretary, Confederation of All India   (CAIT). “Parliament must consider the repercussions, including the destabilisation of Delhi’s trade and economy. Meanwhile, the central government should constitute a special working group to assess the matter raised by the court about environmental impact.”
 
 The court decision left many market associations pessimistic about an early resolution of the matter. Charging the Union urban development ministry with delaying the notification of the amendments, Vijay Kumar, South Ex 1 Traders Association president, said, “The changes approved by the vice-chairman of   should have been immediately notified. Now, even if a bill is brought in Parliament, it will take a lot of time getting it approved by the two Houses. And in the meantime, the sealing drive will be extended to all parts of the city by the monitoring committee. The government must think of some way to suspend the sealing drive till a solution is found.”
 
 Rajender Sharda, head of the market association at Greater Kailash 1, too was critical of the laxness in notifying the amendments. “The mistake can still be rectified,” he said. “Since the Aam Aadmi Party, BJP and Congress claim they want to stop the sealing, why don’t they pass a bill in Parliament in one day?”
 
 Khandelwal accused both DDA and the municipal corporations of making traders the scapegoat for their own failures to discharge their obligations under the different master plans for the capital. CAIT has convened a meeting of leaders of prominent trade associations on March 8 to chalk out a course of action. Its delegation will also meet Union home minister Rajnath Singh, urban development minister Hardeep Puri, Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to press for a moratorium on the sealing drive.
 
 Chamber of Trade and Industries (CTI) has similarly called a ‘mahapanchayat’ of trade bodies and market associations next week. Brijesh Goyal, CTI convenor, pointed out that when sealings had led to the same situation in 2006-07, the centre had brought in an ordinance. “The BJP-led government must assure us of similar action,” Goyal insisted.
 
 
