It may seem unbelievable, but there is a good chance that one day the lively coast of   will no longer be there. This is not a doomsday scenario conjured up by those who see gloom and doom everywhere, but a very stark reality staring us in the face. Thousands of fishermen communities, fancy resorts and restaurants, corporate firms, and the street hawkers may fade into oblivion 30 years from now, say experts and researchers, who are tirelessly working on ways to minimise the loss due to calamities arising out of global warming. 
The   report that there is a possibility that by 2050, we could see several cm of   (SLR). 
 According to the report, the high-risk areas are in the districts of Thiruvallur, Chennai, Kanchipuram, Villupuram, Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Thiruvarur, Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Tuticorin, Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari. Areas below 5m are at risk in all these coastal districts where the future storm surge is expected to go above 4 m, the report adds.
 
 At a recent seminar, Sudhir Chella Rajan, project scientist at Indo-German Centre for Sustainability (IGCS), who also teaches at the Department of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT-Madras, warned that such events are likely to happen 30 years from now. “It’s not a prediction or forecast. We are developing scenarios about the possible future climate change and sea-level rise. Based on the Paleoclimate Records (study of changes in climate taken on the scale of the entire history of earth), we know that   levels could rise by metres with 2 degrees of warming. We are now 1 degree warmer than in pre-industrial times,” says Rajan. 
 
 So, is there a way we can reduce the destruction from long-term sea level rise? Rajan says that 30 years is a good amount of time to plan. “The government bodies and public need to understand the vulnerable parts of coasts, what investment should be made, or should we think about retreat, or should we think about organising certain ways of life on the coast. Like in Chennai, we have Ennore creeks, Adyar Estuary and Adyar Eco Park, these are valuable ecosystems and we need to protect them. We can look at three types of options — one is based of engineering solution, the second is preserve natural ecosystem, and the third is retreat. In India, we have not done any analysis like this yet, but in the UK, the Netherlands and in Bangladesh, it’s already been done and they are working towards it,” he adds. Low-lying coastal areas, encroachment and construction on the lake and river beds are under serious threat. “Areas like Velachery are vulnerable, but somehow, permission was given to construct buildings in those areas, which is wrong. We don’t have to wait for 30 years to see such regions being inundated; that can happen in two years. If the ice in Greenland and Antarctica melts, the average sea-level will be 120 metres. But nobody is expecting that to happen suddenly because climate change is a slow process. Things will happen slowly, but in 30 years, the threat is going to be real,” he explains. 
 
 Dr Robert J Nicholls, Professor of Coastal Engineering, University of Southampton, England, who has been working with Jadavpur University on West Bengal and Mahanadi coasts, explains, “Sea-level rose 15-20 cm during the 20th century and is currently rising at 3mm per year based on satellite observations. Continued warming will lead to much larger rises and one meter or more is plausible by the end of the century.” 
 All coastal low-lying areas are threatened by increased flooding, more erosion, degradation of habitats and salinisation. With a long coast and dense population, India is highly threatened, says Robert. “In 2000, 66 million Indians (or 6.27% of national population) lived below 10m elevation. These people are not all immediately threatened by sea-level rise, but it shows that the relevant populations are large. The deltas along the Bay of Bengal, where cyclones can strike (examples include West Bengal, including Kolkata, and the Mahanadi delta) are at greater risk,” he says.
 Sea-level rise is relatively slow and accumulates — disasters are generally brought on by extreme events like cyclones, but rising sea levels make them worse. But man-made dunes may help shield the beaches from rising sea and coastal storms. Dr Robert adds, “The Dutch North Sea coast is protected by dunes, so this can work, but we need enough space for the dunes and they need to be maintained. Further, as sea-levels rise, the land behind the dunes may still become submerged. In general, adapting to sea-level rise will require a systemic approach and a single measure is unlikely to be successful.”
 
 -Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com 
 
