PURULIA: Chief minister   has proposed amends in the annual assessment of state officials to enhance their direct interface with the public and problem solving capacity. The CM wants bureaucrats ranging from the DMs to the BDOs, and also the police inspectors, to keep records of the problems they have resolved by taking personal initiative. The record will be consulted during their annual appraisal, the CM said.

 “I would ask the DMs, SDOs, BDOs and ICs to keep records of how many problems they have solved. I will check them during my next administrative meeting. This record will also form a part of your performance assessment,”   said at the administrative meeting in Purulia on Wednesday. The CM then urged chief secretary   to send a circular to all the districts in this regard.
 
 Power of instilling confidence in public is already there among the total 11 criteria based on which state officials are assessed at the end of the year. Departmental secretaries give ratings — poor, average, good and very good — in a scale of zero to three.
 
 The CM on Wednesday wants to quantify public dealing and give it additional weightage instead of the usual three marks allotted for each of the 11 criteria. Sources in the personnel & administrative reforms department said the proposed quantification will help remove the subjectivity in the assessment procedure. “An official now has to present concrete cases leaving less scope for his superior to make an overall assessment,” an official said.
 
 Mamata advocated this change after coming across complaints from public during her district tours that people sometimes don’t get access to officials when they need them badly. “I am aware that there are some people who come with their problems on a regular basis only to bother the administration. I am not talking about them. But there are some who come with genuine problems and a little initiative from the administration can help them tide over the problem. Keep a record of such cases and the problems you solved,” the CM said in a bid to make the administration more accountable ahead of the panchayat polls.
 
 The CM showed the way in the administrative meeting itself by solving the problem of bodies piling up at the Purulia morgue. Responding to Trinamool Congress MLA Shampa Daripa’s plea, she turned to director general of police  . “How long should the unclaimed bodies have to be preserved?” she asked. When the DG told her about the rule, Mamata formed a panel comprising the DM, chief medical officer of health, municipality chairman and assigned the panel to dispose the bodies according to law. The CM also ordered for setting up a new morgue at Purulia.
 
