It’s the season of college fests, and pretty much every campus in town is a war zone of talent these days. But the plethora of cultural competitions apart, fests also provide other entertainment to students, especially in terms of music. You either have professional musicians perform or have a DJ spin the latest chart busters that pep up the mood. This season, we’ve seen DJs are among the hottest properties on campus. BT explores the trend. 

 
 
 For college cultural committees, the best part about hiring a DJ to perform is the time factor. From setting up, gaining the crowd’s attention and the performance duration, getting a DJ works out better. “DJs single-handedly capture a crowd in a short time, which takes live band a lot more time, irrespective of the effort put into delivering the performance,” says  , student and president of Student’s Council, St. Joseph’s College.
 
 
 
 Students love variety, and that’s something most DJs offer on their playlist spanning multiple genres of music. So, one can be sure that there are going to be songs that everyone likes. “The trend has swayed away from live band performances and moved to adrenaline-pumping music,” says Aaron.
 
 The reason college students like having DJs at their fests is mostly because there will be music that everyone can relate to or dance to.  , a student of Jain University CMS, says, “In Indian music, Carnatic is enjoyed by few people, but everyone dances to tappanguchi beats. It’s the same with Western music. Rock is, perhaps, loved by a few, but everyone definitely dances to EDM.”
 
 
 
 Fests provide students a time to unwind and enjoy themselves. “It’s definitely a break a student needs in today’s education system, which, in my opinion is too rigid. There’s nothing better than a DJ act that lets everyone put their hair down and have a gala time,” says Pavan.
 
 
 
 Open air venues and great music to enjoy in the company of your pals that tops the reasons why students prefer a DJ performing at their college fest. “Going to a pub for a DJ night is not possible for all, considering that a lot of us are not of legal drinking age yet. For others, the ambience at a pub maybe a downer while trying to enjoy some groovy music. So, it may not be as much fun as when you have a DJ perform at college,” says  , student and president of Student’s Council, Jyoti Nivas College. 
 
