CHANDIGARH: Confirming his resignation,   power and irrigation minister   told TOI on Tuesday that he volunteered to put in his papers following a sustained smear campaign by his rivals, even after getting a clean chit from the Justice Narang Commission that investigated the mining scam.

 He said he was not aware if there was any truth in the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira’s claims that the party’s national president Rahul Gandhi had asked for his resignation.
 
 “Technically speaking, there was no need for me to resign. The Narang Commission did not find my role (in the mining scam). If someone does not like the commission, what can I do? But a commission should be respected,” said Gurjit. Asked if he was referring to AAP leader  , Gurjit said he did not want to comment on him.
 
 “Secondly,” he added, “they raised issues about my son and alleged anomalies in the addresses of my companies. I have earned everything I have the hard way. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) may have a view. But unless it is proven, how can anyone hold me guilty.”
 
 The ED had issued summons for January 17 to Rana Inder Partap Singh, son of Gurjit, in connection with raising funds to the tune of $18 million (around Rs 100 crore) by floating foreign shares.
 
 Without naming his political rivals, he said, “It was an unnecessary controversy raised by certain people. “Chief minister Amarinder Singh is the one who got me into politics. I didn’t want him and the party to face the smear campaign and so I decided to resign,” he said.
 
 Asked about unconfirmed reports that   national president Rahul Gandhi asked for the resignation, Gurjit said, “I’m not aware of any such thing. I resigned on my own and I sent it to  . I’ve done my job.” He said he still had not heard from the chief minister on whether the resignation had been accepted.
 
 Replying to a question about whether he had earlier offered to resign too, Gurjit said,“That time, Capt Amarinder said he was appointing a commission and will keep the resignation with him till the report is submitted. He said it will be accepted if you (Gurjit) are found guilty and rejected if not.”
 
 It’s a sacking order: Khaira
 
 “It is not a resignation; it is a sacking order from the part high command. The resignation is being camouflaged even though it is a dishonourable exit of a minister from the cabinet. We will move high court soon to demand a CBI probe into the matter so that things are taken to a logical conclusion,” said Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira, reacting to the development.
 
 Calling Gurjit “kingpin and fountainhead of corruption,” Khaira said. The sad part, he alleged, was that chief minister Amarinder Singh was still trying to save him. “I got to know that the resignation has been pending since January 4 and Amarinder has been trying to save him. Gurjit has been the fund manager of Amarinder and even ran his campaign for the   election in 2014. He had all the resources. That is why Amarinder did not do justice,” he said.
 
 
