MUMBAI: A week after Lalbaug resident Rajesh Maru (32) lost his life after being sucked into an   at BMC-run BYL   Hospital, the last of his remains—a severed finger—that was stuck to the machine, was removed on Saturday. Police have seized the   and said it will be used as evidence.

 Hospital authorities said the finger was attached to the machine along with the oxygen cylinder, and that it could not be detached without help from technical experts. “Both were removed by technicians from Philips, the manufacturer of the machine, in the presence of police on Saturday,” said hospital dean, Dr Ramesh Bharmal. S Agawane, senior inspector, Agripada police station, said, “The severed finger has been retrieved. We have seized everything as evidence during the panchnana.”
 
 Maru’s brother Yogesh (36), however, said they were not informed about the development. “We have carried out his last rites but the hospital authorities should have informed us about this,” he said. The family had expressed unhappiness about the pace of the probe and their exclusion from the scheme of things. “Our relatives made a couple of rounds of the hospital but we couldn’t meet the dean or any senior official for an update,” he said.
 
 Maru was the family’s main breadwinner. His parents have been inconsolable since the incident. Their house has been swarmed with relatives and well-wishers, many of whom didn’t know the family personally. “Many have read about the horrible incident in newspapers and are dropping in to express condolences. It is sad that no one from BMC or the state has spoken to us directly,” said Yogesh, who lives and works in Surat. 
 
 “There has been no official word on   too. We have learnt from media that the chief minister had announced a compensation of Rs 5lakh but we are yet to see any written document,” he said.
 
 While the family was hopeful of receiving compensation from BMC, as Yogesh said it was an “obvious case of negligence”, Dr Bharmal said the civic body had no provisions to grant it. “We have to wait for the probe report to decide the next step. The investigation has been fast-tracked and the report is likely in 10 days,” he said. Calling the incident “unfortunate”, Dr Bharmal said a committee of department heads will revisit standard operating protocols to avoid a repeat of such instances.
 
 Maru’s family said they would wait for the investigation report and decide whether to seek legal recourse for higher compensation. 
 
 (With inputs from Mateen Hafeez)
 
 
