MUMBAI: In perhaps the first instance of such stringent action, the BMC on Saturday dismissed four engineers, cut the increments of 81 and fined 11 Rs 10,000 for giving the city shoddy roads over the past few years.

 The BMC’s internal inquiry committee had named 100 engineers for shoddy work on 34 roads, repaired at a cost of Rs 352.2 crore. The roads were inspected in the first phase of the road scam. In the second phase, 200 roads where work was carried out at a cost of around Rs 1,700 crore were inspected, and 170 engineers are facing a probe. Eighty-one engineers have been named in both the phases. Most of the engineers had a supervisory role and had failed to keep tabs on the road work. 
 
 On Saturday, civic chief Ajoy Mehta submitted a report to mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar on the punishments to 96 engineers in the dock in connection with the first phase of the scam. The four fired from service are deputy chief engineer T N Kumar, assistant engineer Umesh Bapat and sub engineers N Nagursoge and S B Gade. 
 
 According to the report, their dereliction was rated on a scale with a maximum of 10 and the four got 7 or above. Charges against four other engineers were dropped, sources said. 
 
 It included deputy chief engineers M D Machiwal and S M Jadhav, assistant engineer S M Sonawane and sub-engineer Prashant Palwe. Sanjay Darade, chief engineer in the development plan department who was earlier in the road department, is reportedly among the 100 named in the first phase of the scam.
 
 Mehta told TOI, “This is the first time such stern action has been taken. We wanted to ensure that punishments awarded are commensurate with the loss caused. It should serve as a lesson that action will be taken in such cases.” 
 
 Following the civic body’s action,   leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh demanded that photos of all blacklisted contractors be displayed at the BMC office entrance to restrict their entry. “The present officials of the road department are concealing information on whether money was recovered from the blacklisted contractors,” he said.
 
 The road scam came to light in 2015 when Mehta, following a letter by then mayor Snehal Ambekar on shoddy roads, appointed an inquiry committee led by then additional municipal commissioner Sanjay Deshmukh to probe the roads repaired in the previous three years. After inspecting 34 roads in the first phase, the committee submitted a preliminary report saying work on almost all the roads was found to be shoddy. The BMC, in a first, registered an FIR against the contractors and made the first arrests in June 2016. A special investigation team (SIT) probing the case also arrested 10 employees of the two third-party auditor firms. In July 2016, two senior BMC engineers and a director of Relcon Infra Projects were arrested. A detailed inquiry into the scam later exposed how 100 engineers had failed to supervise road repair works.
 
 “From the report, it is seen that not only has the public suffered losses but a large number of engineers are involved. The malaise and rot runs deep. There is a need to strike at this rot with exemplary punishment. Those whose role was limited were given punishment as per their negliance. It was important to impose punishment prudently and based on a fair and transparent mechanism,” Mehta’s report says. 
 
 
