THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Acting tough against the private bus operators who have decided to go ahead with the strike, despite the government notifying an increase in bus fare, the motor vehicles department has initiated steps to cancel the permit of the striking bus operators. 

 Transport commissioner K   has instructed all the regional transport officers and joint regional transport officers to issue show-cause notice to the operators as a preliminary step. "The permits for the bus operators are being issued on the condition of operating services at the scheduled time. When they fail to do so, the notices are being issued seeking the explanation from them on why their permits should not be cancelled," Padmakumar said. On Monday alone, the   issued notices to more than 2,000 buses across the state. Padmakumar said that issuing the notices would continue on Tuesday as well.
 
 MVD sources said that if the strike continues and the bus operators fail to give a convincing reason, the department would begin cancelling their route permits.
 
 The permits are issued to the buses as per the section 66 of the  , 1988. The section 192A of the act says that "whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allow a motor vehicle to be used in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 66 or in contravention of any condition of a permit relating to the route on which or the area in which or the purpose for which the vehicle may be used, shall be punishable for the first offence with a fine which may extend to five thousand rupees but shall not be less than two thousand rupees and for any subsequent offence with imprisonment which may extend to one year but shall not be less than three months or with fine which may extend to Rs 10,000 but shall not be less than Rs 5,000 or with both".
 
 Sources said that the MVD was also prepared to go ahead with confiscating the buses under the Essential Services Management Act ( ) if the buses were not ready to operate and operate the services. 
 
 While the strike continues in other parts of the state, the majority of private bus operators in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam resumed service on Monday.
 
 Though the government had proposed to increase the fare stage after the minimum charge by another 25% of the revised fare, the bus owners declined the offer. The government had made the offer during the meeting called by transport minister A K   with the bus owners. 
 
 
