NEW DELHI: Wrestling’s famous  , made more popular by the sports biopic ‘Dangal’, are in for a huge shock.

 
 
 
 The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI), tired of the sisters’ alleged “tantrums and indiscipline”, has dropped all four Phogat sisters — Geeta, Babita, Ritu and Sangeeta — from the national camp for the Asian Games.
 
 They will not be allowed to take part in the Asiad trials scheduled for later this month, which would effectively end their hopes of representing the country in the Jakarta Palembang Games to be held in Indonesia in August-September later this year. The trials are open for only those wrestlers who are part of the camp.
 
 WFI, which was earlier criticised for going soft on Geeta and Babita despite complaints of indiscipline, has acted tough on the latest act of indiscretion – skipping the national camp in Lucknow made mandatory by the federation to prepare for the Games. All four have been issued show cause notice on Wednesday with the WFI seeking explanation for their latest breach.
 
 In total, 15 men and women freestyle wrestlers have been showcaused by the WFI and their names removed from the camp list.
 
 TOI is in possession of a copy of the notice which was signed by WFI president Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh on Wednesday evening.
 
 The list of offenders has the name of another celebrated grappler – Satyawart Kadian, the husband of Rio Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik. Satyawart is a 2016 Asian Championships gold medallist and also won silver at at the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games. The men’s freestyle wrestlers are training at the SAI centre in Sonepat. The camp for both the men and women grapplers will run from May 10 to June 25, which will conclude with the Asiad trials.
 
 According to Singh, had these wrestlers informed in advance about their no-show, the federation would have accommodated other wrestlers in the camp. “It looks all of them are not taking the camp seriously. This is gross breach of discipline on their part because the federation is struggling to ensure enough sparring partners at the women’s camp. This is not acceptable. We have immediately removed these offenders from the Lucknow and Sonepat camps. Moreover, they won’t be allowed to appear for the Asian Games trials,” Singh told TOI.
 
 WRESTLERS AXED FROM NATIONAL CAMP:   (50kg), Indu Choudhary (50kg), Sangeeta Phogat (57kg),   (59kg), Ravita (59kg), Pooja Tomar (62kg), Manu (62kg), Nandini Salokhe (62kg), Reshma Mane (62kg), Anju (65kg), Manu Tomar (72kg), Kamini (72kg),   (53kg), Shravan (61kg) and Satyawart Kadian (97kg).
 
 
