In an unusual step for any industry body, the medical devices industry is demanding that it be regulated by the government and arguing that self-regulation does not work. Indian and multinational device manufacturers associations have issued statements asking the government to regulate trade margins as recommended by a committee of the pharmaceuticals department in 2016. 

 The development comes in the wake of the   (NPPA) saying in a recent report that hospitals were effectively forcing manufacturers to mark extremely high MRPs to boost their profit margins.
 
  The industry association representing domestic manufacturers,   (AIMED), has been calling for a cap on trade margins for more than a year. The 'Report of the Committee on High Trade Margins in Sale of Drugs - 2016', commissioned bv the pharma department also asked for trade margin rationalization. The   (MTaI), comprised about 30 multinational device companies, has taken a similar position of late, saying it would remarkably improve patient access. However, the government hasn't acted on these suggestions yet. 
 
  "Self-regulation cannot work in price control without government playing referee. Why is the DoP so reluctant to do so? It has been dragging its feet for over a year on our proposal to cap trade margins. It could protect consumers without hurting manufacturers and hospitals and without tarnishing the reputation of doctors," Rajiv Nath, AIMED convenor told TOI. 
 
  NPPA investigations have revealed how hospitals charged huge margin on medicines and consumables, which on average constitute about 40% of a patient's hospital bill. Another investigation by the   revealed how even on a syringe hospitals made up to 525%, while the NPPA study showed 1,000-1,200% profit on syringes. 
 
  In December, the All India Syringes and Needles Manufacturers Association (AISNMA), an association of Indian manufacturers, agreed to self-regulate by charging only 75% margin when printing the MRP. However, none of the foreign firms agreed. As a result, hospitals had started shifting contracts to foreign firms that were willing to print MRPs that gave them huge margins, said an AISNMA member. This confirms the NPPA finding that industry was effectively being pushed by hospitals to print higher MRPs to get bulk supply orders. AISNMA, has therefore, written to NPPA saying self-regulation is not working and the authority must regulate the industry. 
 
  Civil society groups working on improving people's access to medicine like All India Drug Action Network argue that slashing trade margins alone will not work. Steps to cut MRP on devices and consumables as well as regulation of hospital charges are needed to make healthcare accessible to patients, they argue. 
 
 
