JAIPUR: Coming down heavily on the sale of Chinese and metallic manjha, Jaipur police for the first time have invoked section 338 of IPC which deals with causing grievous injury by endangering life of others. Now, sale of killer manjha can land the violators in jail for two years or attract a fine of Rs1,000 or both.

 Police till Tuesday had arrested eight persons in this connection and seized nearly 100 spindles (charkhi) of the killer manjha from their possession.
 
 Policeinitiated a massive campaign against the killer manjha on Sunday and asked its various police stations, especially in northern parts of the district covering  , to taken stern action against those selling the killer thread.
 
 “We arrested eight persons for selling killer manjha in the city till Tuesday. Five persons were arrested on Monday while three more were arrested on Tuesday. We have registered cases under section 338 of IPC which deals with causing grievous hurt by act of endangering life of others,” said  , additional commissioner police (crime).
 
 Apart from section 338, the police have also invoked section 188 of IPC againstthe violators. “Section 188 of IPC proposes a punishment for disobeying a government order,” said a senior police officer. According the police, section 338 of IPC, if proved against the accused, can result in an imprisonment for a term which may extend up to two years, or fine which may extend to Rs 1,000, or both. Meanwhile, some police stations are taking suo motu cognizance in such cases and registering FIRs on their own.
 
 “Three FIRs were lodged at   police station for illegal sale of Chinese and metallic manjha in the city,” said a police officer.
 
 On the other hand, Jaipur Nagar Kite Flying Association has decided not to fly kites this year. The kite enthusiasts of the club this year will rescue the injured birds on the occasion of  . “Our volunteers will visit various parts of the city with first-aid boxes to take care of injured birds,” said  , a member of the club.
 
