GHAZIABAD: The   (GDA) has issued a prohibition order on installation of gates in residential colonies in the city. The   directed that the gates cannot be installed without seeking due permission from the authorities.

 “The decision has been taken in view of traffic congestion that has resulted due to by-lanes being closed for vehicular movement after installation of gates by the RWAs. Orders have also been issued upon residential colonies to keep all existing gates open during daytime, even though they can be manned by security guards to regulate entry of vehicles,” vice-chairperson of GDA, Ritu Maheshwari told TOI.
 
 The order has irked a section of residents in the city who are opposed to the move. The GDA had last month dismantled steel gates installed by RWAs in all five lanes of Niti Khand 1 in Indirapuram township.
 
 “The gates had been broken without giving any notice. It has compromised security in the residential colony because anyone is free to enter the lanes and gain access to houses. RWAs have installed gates only because residents feel insecure about poor policing in the backdrop of high crime rates in the city,” said Abhishek Jain, a transporter who lives in Niti Khand 1.
 
 According to GDA officials, the Master Plan 2021 for Ghaziabad has no provision for gates in residential colonies. “Permissions had been granted for installing gates only upon mutual consent of   members in view of security issues in residential colonies. There have been complaints too from within individual RWAs that spaces have shrunk within gated lanes as they are permanently used for parking,” said GDA in-charge of Indirapuram, S K Chauhan.
 
 Many houses in the city do not have garages or parking spaces.
 
  “In the past, there have been instances when residents have found it impossible to get out of their lanes during emergencies with gates permanently closed. Gates should be kept completely open for movement of vehicles during the day. Even if a gate is allowed to shut during night, a security guard should man it in order to meet emergency situations,” said Vinay Mittal, president, Kaushambi Apartment RWA (KARWA).
 
 
