JAIPUR: Scorching heat conditions revived in the state when majority of the places witnessed maximum temperatures above the normal notch on Monday. Similarly, an elevation of 3 degree Celsius on an average in the morning temperatures was also witnessed across the state. Chittorgarh remained hottest in the state where a   of 44.9 degree Celsius was recorded, the Met reports said.

 
 Many places in the northern and eastern parts of the state continue to witness gusty winds still and rise in their maximum and minimum temperatures.
 
 Jaipurites woke up to a warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 31 degree Celsius was recorded in the city. It was followed by a scorching afternoon having a maximum temperature of 42.4 degree Celsius, almost 3 degrees above the normal notch. With the rise in the temperatures the   which becomes crowded in the morning also saw a dip in the footfall. In the afternoon the city roads were empty as people remained inside their offices and homes. The continued rise in the mercury has also brought water crisis in the city’s dark zones including Jhotwara, Murlipura, Sikar Road and Vidhyadhar Nagar situated localities.
 
 In many districts including Bhilwara, Dausa, Karauli and Ajmer people are facing acute water crisis and are protesting against the erratic water supply. On Monday in Tonk several women had a confrontation with the local police while protesting against poor water supply at Aligarh village in Tonk.
 
 Chittorgarh was followed by Barmer where a maximum temperature of 44.6 degree Celsius was recorded, Sriganganagar 44.5, Jaisalmer and Kota 44. Churu 43.7, Jodhpur and Bikaner 43.6 degree Celsius each, Ajmer 43.0, Udaipur 42.5 and a maximum temperature of 43 degree Celsius was recorded in Ajmer.
 
 Attributing the rise in the temperatures to the active northerly winds   office said that the mercury will continue to take an upward swing across the state. Heat wave will further aggravate in western and northern parts of the state in the next 24 hours.
 
