PUDUCHERRY :   described   as a hub of innovation in the social, cultural, economic and educational fields. Speaking on the international spiritual township’s golden jubilee on Sunday, the PM connected the idea of Auroville with India’s ancient traditions.

 “In ancient times, universities like Nalanda and Taxila hosted students from across the world and many of the world’s greatest religions were born in India,” he said. “The fact that Auroville has brought together such a huge diversity of people and ideas makes dialogue and debate natural. Indian society is fundamentally diverse. It has fostered dialogue and a philosophic focus. Auroville show-cases this ancient Indian tradition to the world,” he added. Auroville could have only existed in India because “India has always allowed mutual respect and co-existence of different cultures and religions,” he said.
 
 Modi arrived at Auroville – the experimental international township in the outskirts of Puducherry founded by The Mother (Mirra Alfassa) of Sri   – after visiting the ashram and SAICE (Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education), the school run by the ashram. He visited Auroville’s famed golden orb the Matrimandir, paid tributes to Sri Aurobindo and poured water from the Ganga into a special vessel to symbolically inaugurate the ceremony to be held in Auroville on February 28 when water from countries across the world will be poured into a single receptacle. He also visited Auroville’s iconic Banyan tree before speaking to a packed auditorium at Bharat Niwas close by, sharing the dias with a host of dignitaries including Karan Singh, chairman Auroville Foundation, Puducherry governor Kiran Bedi, TN governor Banwarilal Purohit, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanaswamy among others. 
 
 Connecting Auroville with India’s ancient traditions, the PM said: “Ancient sages used to conduct yagnas some of which changed the course of history. One such yagna was done 50 years ago here in Auroville,” referring to the inauguration ceremony of the township held in 1968. “India is home to the age old tradition of Gurukul, where learning is not confined to classrooms. Auroville too has developed as a place of unending and life-long education in fields like environmental research, renewable energy, water and waste management,” he added. 
 
 Auroville, he said, “has brought together men and women, young and old, cutting across boundaries and identities. Aurobindo’s philosophy of Consciousness integrates not just humans, but the entire universe.” He urged Auroville to serve young minds through education, which he said “will be a big tribute to Sri Aurobindo and The Mother”. As the world progresses “materially through science and technology, it will increasingly long for and need spiritual orientation for social order and stability. At Auroville, the material and the spiritual, co-exist in harmony,” said the Prime Minister ending with “May Auroville continue to come up with ideas to empower the people and may people from across the world bring these ideas. May Auroville be the place where these ideas are synthesized,” he said.
 
 
