Quepem: Quepem municipal council (QMC) may have employed a keeper and four labourers to impound   cattle in its jurisdiction, but citizens cannot recall the last time they saw an animal being taken to the pound by the staff.

 This comes even after the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services floated a scheme — Goa Stray Cattle Management Scheme, 2013 (modified) — under which civic bodies and panchayats were eligible to receive funds to control the stray cattle menace. Santosh V Dessai, director & ex-officio joint secretary (AH) had signed the notification on October 10, 2015, but sources said hardly any civic body or panchayat has availed the funds.
 
 “The cattle pound built by the QMC has been subject to gross neglect. The metals sheets on its roof have gone missing. This indicates that controlling stray cattle is not on the civic body’s agenda,” sources said. Stray bovines can be seen loitering around accident-prone zones like the town’s main circle, the busy Tilamoll junction and near Don Bosco High School. Besides, with cow dung littering nearly every available public space, navigating around town is a constant challenge for pedestrians.
 
 QMC engineer Nitin Kotharkar said labourers do not have sufficient equipment to catch stray cattle who flee if approached. “The government should provide proper equipment to impound cattle. Sometimes, people get injured when the labourers try to tie them up,” he said. At present, the staff work in two shifts — from 7am-2pm and 2pm-9pm. “They just chase the cattle away with sticks,” Kotharkar said.
 
 Following the 2007 directives of the high court of Bombay at Goa, a majority of municipal councils constructed cattle pounds, but rarely any took measures to utilise it. QMC constructed the cattle pound too, but did not implement the scheme.
 
 “Why are the councils or panchayats not beneficiaries of the scheme? If the panchayats or municipalities apply for the scheme then more accidents caused by stray cattle can be prevented and also more employment can be generated,” said prominent agriculturist and activist Dilip Hegde said.
 
 
