KOLKATA: Lakhinder Raut, a private bus driver from  , was arrested from   on Thursday evening for talking on mobile phone while driving.

 The Kolkata Police said they have prosecuted 296 people for speaking on cell phones while driving in the past two days; 56 others have had their licences suspended on Friday.
 
 Earlier, speaking on the cell phone while driving only led to a Rs 100 spot fine. But police on Friday indicated they would slap harsher penal sections on repeat offenders, or those who by their act posed danger to others.
 
 The Pailan driver was arrested for his act endangered the life of the passengers in his bus, police said. He was also charged with Section 279 IPC which leads to prosecution for rash or negligent driving which can endanger life. The provision has a six-month prison term and a Rs 1000 penalty.
 
 The special drives launched by Kolkata Police followed an appeal on Facebook the day before which urged people to report such violations to police on their WhatsApp number 9903588888 or Bondhu App. Police requested the senders to upload the incident image and the vehicle number along with the place, date and time.
 
 Sumit Kumar, DC (traffic), said all traffic guards have been asked to follow the standard operating procedure, whereby sections 218 (2) and 218 (3) of the Motor Vehicles Act will be invoked and licences suspended for three months. Around 56 licences were suspended on Friday alone, said a source. “Arrests will be made in cases where the act endangers the life of others or the violator is involved in multiple offences,” sources added.
 
 “We are following   guidelines. Drivers of bus, minibus, auto, taxi and app cabs drivers will be kept under lens,” said Kumar. Those found to be guilty will be prosecuted. “Last year, these prosecution figures stood at 38, 876. Now, we will be conducting special drives.” he added. Other top sources confirmed that repeat offenders might see their licences suspended permanently.
 
 The police said it has already received encouraging response on the new WhatsApp number provided to public to report such violations. “We have already received six violation photographs in the first six hours of its launch. We will be taking proper legal action against them,” said Kumar.
 
 Police have also made it clear that laws prevent both the use of ear phones and cell phones while driving.
 
 While police are now cancelling licences for serious violations and repeat offenders, use of cell phones while driving can also lead to an arrest if successive prosecutions fail to act as a deterrent.
 
 Section 184 of The Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 says police can arrest anyone if they feel he’s driving too dangerously. “If police feel a driver is driving in a manner which is dangerous to public, they can arrest the offender,” said a senior officer. This penal section can land one in prison for six months and attract a Rs-100 fine. But if the same offence is committed again within three years, the prison term will be two years and the fine Rs 2000.
 
 
