Rajkot: CID (crime) officials said on Thursday that the agency is probing conspiracy angle in the massive warehouse blaze near Shapar-Veraval that destroyed nearly 1,000 tonne groundnut late night on May 5.

 The state government has handed over the probe to CID (crime) after 28,000 bags (each weighing 35kg) worth Rs 4 crore were gutted as four of the eight shades caught fire. This was the fifth fire incident in warehouses storing groundnut purchased at minimum support price (MSP) by the state government in past four months in   and Kutch.
 
 Deputy inspector general (DIG), CID (crime) IG  , who visited the warehouse on Thursday, said, “It is premature to say anything at this stage.”
 
 Addressing media persons at the site, Trivedi said, “We are also probing the quality of groundnut that was stored in the warehouse. Unlike   fire, here we have evidence to probe the quality. In Gondal fire, the entire stock was gutted.” 
 
 It was on January 30 that a massive fire in a warehouse gutted 7,000 tonne groundnut worth Rs 32 crore.
 
 In Shapar-Verval’s Gujarat Warehouse, the agency collected samples of groundnut from other shades that did not catch fire. Scientists of   (JAU) have also been roped in to take the samples for tests. 
 
 “The scientists of forensic science laboratory (FSL) and the JAU will test samples from the remaining stock to check if the stock procured was lesser in quality than prescribed by Nafed, the procurement agency and whether there was any malpractice in the procurement process,” Trivedi said. 
 
 The FSL and JAU will submit the repot to CID within 15 days. A team from Gandhinagar FSL has also been called to the warehouse. 
 
 Trivedi said that the fire is totally under control and he appreciated the fire brigade department. However, according to sources, smoke is still billowing.
 
 No FIR has been lodged in this case and the investigation is being done only on the basis of an application submitted by the warehouse manager with the Shapar-Veraval police station stating that fire broke out accidentally. 
 
 “We will lodge an FIR if we find any negligence or criminality during the probe,” Trivedi said.
 
 According to primary investigation, there was no CCTV inside the warehouse. There was no electricity connection too but a junction box of electricity was found inside the warehouse. According to sources, it was also revealed that some rules of the State Warehousing Corporation were flouted in renting the private warehouse. The groundnut was stocked here before signing the agreement that specifies the terms and conditions.
 
 
