Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com

 Bhangra, dhols and   -  's open-for-all   celebration had it all. The evening started with bhangra dancers, dressed in traditional attire, swaying to folk music. They were also accompanied by dholwallahs. The party had Delhi-born and UK-based artist Bally Sagoo playing for the crowd. After the performances, Bally began playing his popular mixes like 'Gur Naal Ishq Mitha', 'Mera Laung Gawacha', 'Aaja Nachle', 'Noorie', 'Tum Bin'. 
 
  "I prefer playing at such open events more than in clubs or private gigs. These evenings have an amazing mix of crowd. People just walk in to party and dance. The interaction with people is much better here," said Bally. The party did not have any bonfire, keeping in mind the pollution levels.
 
 
  
  This open-for-all Lohri party in Cyber Hub, along with Bally Sagoo's music, had Gurugrammers grooving (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 "I have not performed in a walk-in evening for a while so this really excited me. People here know how to party and this venue is very international. I had to be here for Lohri," Bally added. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  As the evening picked up, people joined the bhangra dancers on the dance floor. Being an open-for-all evening, it had people of all ages, and everyone danced together, showing the true spirits of the festival. "I did not plan to party tonight but I could not resist the dhols. We don’t have Lohri celebration at home, so this was a good way to celebrate. There is no bonfire either, which makes it even better," said Komal, one of the attendees and a Gurgaon resident. 
 
  
  
  
 
  "Cyber Hub is my favourite place, and amphitheatre events are always great. I loved the evening," said Gurmeet, another attendee, who was visiting Cyber Hub with his friends. 
 
 
  
  PAAO BHANGRA! Gurugrammers had their weekend kick-started by a no bonfire Lohri party held at Cyber Hub (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  "The event had no pre-information, the buzz was created on the same day. That is how we like to do events here. The celebration did not have a bonfire, keeping in mind the pollution levels of the city and we have focused on the culture and music of Punjab," said one of the organizers. 
 
  
  NACHDE NE SAARE: The crowd danced with the bhangra dancers at the party
 
 
  
  SOME GIDDA MOVES
 
 
  
  Dholwallahs kept the party groovin' (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  
  
 
