GAYA: The Gaya police will seek remand of Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh ( ) activists Paighamber Sheikh and Zamir Sheikh, who were arrested by the Special Task Force (STF) of West Bengal police on Thursday for their alleged involvement in a low intensity blast near the world-famous   and recovery of three improvised explosive devices (IEDs) from places close to the Tibetan monastery in Bodh Gaya on January 19.

 The arrest of the two suspects has raised hopes about the nabbing of the foot soldiers, who actually carried and planted the explosives. One of the two arrested Sheikhs is said to be an ideologue, who actually brainwashed and mentally tailored the foot soldiers into committing the offence. Hunt to nab the foot soldiers has been intensified.
 
 “We are sure about the involvement of these two men, but for technical reasons the duo is not being called accused as the case FIR was registered against unnamed persons,” said a source.
 
 The arrested men were the masterminds and the actual executioners continue to play hide and seek with the police. Officials are hopeful about the arrest of the real executioners as well. CCTV footage is very clear about the physical features of the bomb planters.
 
 Besides the foot soldiers, local suspects, who allegedly helped the radicals in subversive operations, have been put under surveillance. Sources said during recce, the saboteurs did not stay in Bodh Gaya. “We have identified the exact location where they had put up during recce. Though not far off from Bodh Gaya, the place is located outside the administrative jurisdiction of Gaya district,” said a source.
 
 However, the likelihood of the real executioners slipping into either Bangaladesh or Nepal worries agencies involved in the exercise.
 
 Reports say that the same explosives as were used in the bombs placed outside Mahabodhi Temple were also recovered from the possession of the arrested men. During their interrogation by Bengal cops, the duo is learnt to have confessed to their involvement. Both the Sheikhs are said to be associated with Bangladesh-based JMB and sympathise with the Rohingya Muslims of neighbouring Myanmar.
 
 Magadh range DIG Vinay Kumar said the Gaya police would seek remand of the two men arrested by the Bengal police. Refusing to say anything further, the DIG said it being very sensitive case, nothing much can be said. “The case investigators are working overtime to bring the culprits to book,” said the officer.
 
 On January 19, a low intensity IED exploded near the Tibetan monastery and three more IEDs assembled along with timer and pressure technique were recovered from outside the shrine main gate. The explosives were subsequently defused by the National Security Guard (NSG) personnel in the Falgu riverbed. 
 
 Buddhist spiritual leader Dalai Lama was camping in Bodh Gaya when the incident took place. In July 2013, the Ranchi module of Indian Mujahedeen had engineered low intensity blasts on the shrine premises. 
 
 
