RAIPUR: The state's  , being operated by  , got a thumbs up from Prime Minister   in his ' ' programme on Sunday. 

 The PM appreciated the Danteshwari Sewa, which is a unique e-rickshaw public transport system introduced in remote Maoist-affected regions of   in tribal Bastar region. 
 
 Appreciating the work of women, who are driving e-rickshaws for livelihood,   said that these woman have shown that with hard work, a new path can be laid out to inspire people. "I want to appreciate the efforts of women of Dantewada. This is a Maoist-affected area, but the women there are operating e-rickshaws. This is creating opportunities and also changing the face of the region, besides being environment-friendly", he said. 
 
 In September last year, TOI had reported about a group of tribal women, who are members of women self-help groups, learning to drive e-rickshaw to become part of Danteshwari Sewa in the remote areas of Maoist-affected region. 
 
 The Dantewada Advanced Network of Transport Empowered SHG of Women to Assess Remote and Interiors is a unique project designed by Dantewada district administration to introduce public transport facility in the remote areas by involving women who are members of self-help groups (SHGs). 
 
 Nearly 200 SHGs have been identified to run the "e-rickshaw" transport service. The first phase of the project was inaugurated by the chief minister in September last year. 
 
 In many villages, people were forced to walk a few kilometres to reach the market or the main road from where they could get a bus. In such areas, e-rickshaw service has come as a big relief for people. 
 
 An e-rickshaw costs about Rs 1.70 lakh, of which the SHG bears about 20 per cent and the remaining 80 per cent is funded through District Mineral Fund (DMF), a district administration spokesman said . As per details of the project, the vehicles have a first aid kit and 10 charging stations have been set up at different places to enable to charge e-rickshaws, whenever required. Besides, a route map has been designed for each vehicle to identify the locations where e-rickshaw battery chargers are installed. These GPS enabled e-rickshaws can be tracked regularly and women operators have been provided smartphones. These phones have an SOS button that can send messages simultaneously to nearest police station control rooms that monitors the movement of vehicles. 
 
 Officials say that in case these women run e-rickshaw carries a pregnant women to the nearest hospital, they are paid an amount equal to 102 ambulance service "Mahtari" express. The idea is to increase the income of local tribal women, who run the transport system. 
 
 The beneficiary SHGs feel that the project has the potential to become a success and is unlikely to be disturbed by the Maoist as it provides income generating opportunities to local tribal women, besides providing transport facilities to people. All the e-rickshaws, being introduced under 'Danteshwari Sewa, have a photograph of 'Goddess Danteshwari' of famous Danteshwari temple. 
 
 
