The episode starts with Mrs Iyer telling the Bhalla family that Ishita will stay with Raman as she is his wife and nobody has the right to ask her to leave.

  Soon the Bhalla’s and Mrs Iyer get into a fight and Ishita asks them to stay quiet if they really care for Raman. Adi gets the doctor who asks everyone to leave the room and asks Ishita to stay back. She tells Ishita that Raman’s mental condition is very weak at
 present and she should not reveal things about his past to him. If he gets attack again, he might lose his mental stability.
 
 Meanwhile, Mihika is alone in the parking area and Romi notices her.Its very cold hence he offers her his jacket.
 
 He then strikes a conversation with her and praises Mihika for her acting. While talking Mihika tells him she did all this as she wanted to give him another chance.
 
 Ishita is sitting alone and makes coffee for herself as she has to take care of Raman by staying awake all night. Simmi comes there and taunts her to leave the house. They have an argument and Ishita challenges her that she will very soon win over everyone.
 
 Raman wakes up and gets surprised to see Ishita in his room. He recalls how Ishita cheated and married him. He gets angry and Ishita tries to calm him down but he goes away. He goes to Mihika and tells her he is very disappointed with her. Mihika gets teary eyed, Ishita comes and apologizes on his behalf. She tells her that once Raman regains hismemory everything will be fine.
 
  Ishita makes breakfast for everyone, her kids and Romi are very happy. Raman comes and she offers him food which she especially cooked for him but he ignores her and asks to stay away from him. He asks Simmi to get him a tea.
 
  Ishita goes to Mrs Bhalla’s room with laundry clothes and tries to mend ways. But Mrs Bhalla recalls about Ananya’s murder and gets angry on her. She pushes her away and says it is because of her that the family has fallen apart.
 
 Ruhi sees all this and yells at Ishita to let her tell everything to Raman. She decides to reveal the truth to Raman and goes in her room to get the wedding album, Ishita stops her. While Ishita is forcefully trying to stop Ruhi, the latter recalls the time when Nikhil tried to force him upon Ruhi.
 
 She gets scared and pushes Ishita away. After much persuasion, Ruhi tells Ishita that Nikhil tried to take sexual advantage of her. Ishita encourages her to come out and voice against it, but Ruhi is scared. Ishita assures her that she will support her and that she doesn’t need to feel sorry. Ishita promises Ruhi that she will not spare Simmi and Nikhil.
 
