CHANDIGARH : The Punjab government is apparently disinclined to take action against its   Several cases for dismissal, reversion and disciplinary action are awaiting final decision of the government for months now.

 After five PC) officers failed to clear the   even in the mercy chance granted by chief minister in October last year, the state government is yet to take any action. They had failed four earlier attempts too and now need to dismissed or sent back to old posts. 
 
 Among these, two direct recruit PCS officers who face dismissal as per rules are Latif Ahmed and Amrinder Singh Tiwana. Whereas three PCS officers appointed on the basis of merit-cum-seniority from various state government departments need to be reverted to their parent department as per rules. 
 
 These include: Pritpal Singh, Ram Singh and Subhash Chander Khatak. A senior government officer said that their file was still pending with the chief minister. The TOI has learnt that disciplinary inquiries are pending against at least five retired IAS officers even after years of their retirement. They are continuing to draw full pension, albeit provisionally.
 
 Similarly, in its October 2 edition, TOI had reported as to how the previous SAD-BJP government and PPSC had selected  ,   in then food and civil supplies minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s ministerial staff, in the PCS (executive branch) despite not having a graduation degree. Even Punjab’s legal remembrancer-cumsecretary law Vivek Puri had advised the state government “ Kochhar cannot be appointed as he does not have a graduation degree from a recognized university”.
 
 Kochar’s appointment has also been challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court by state government employee Promila Sharma. A senior officer confirmed that advocate general Atul Nanda has now been asked by the government to submit before the court that Kochhar’s appointment decision was being reviewed. It is learnt Kochhar is, however, still continuing on the post in Gurdaspur.
 
 In another case, on September 1, 2017, local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had written a letter to chief minister Amarinder Singh seeking CBI probe against former director of tourism and cultural affairs   Randhawa facing allegations of selling antique artefacts in the international market. Again on January 4, Sidhu wrote to the CS to suspend then Mohali MC Rajesh Dhiman in alleged bungling case of procuring tree pruning machines. But in both these cases, the state government is yet to take the decision.
 
 Similarly, 2014-batch PCS officer  , who had proceeded on ex-India leave in October 2016 to the US and did not join after completion of her extended leave period till December 2017, had resigned on December 22 through e-mail from the US. But till date neither accepted her resignation nor has officially declared her absent from duty.
 
 
