In the latest episode of MTV  , the contestants gang up on Surbhi. Nishkarsh feels it will be difficult for his team to win immunity if they keep fighting amongst themselves.

 
 The contestants and the gang leaders reach the task location. As Rannvijay explains details about the task, 'Dumb Charades', which involves the gang members digging out tokens using their feet and mouth in the first stage. In the second stage, the contestants had to guess movie titles using the tokens which would help them win immunity. The gang leaders also had to participate in the task.
 
 Nikhil is the first gang leader to volunteer for the task and says he is ready to go to any extent to win his team immunity, who he considers his 'family'. The task starts. As the contestants step into the dirt, Kashish gets conscious and lags behind. Surbhi and Shruti impress the leaders as they go ahead and dig out the tokens quickly. Shruti races ahead of Surbhi and gang leader Nikhil and proceeds to the next step, making Shubhda guess the movie titles in the challenge which wins their team the immunity. Khursheed is the lowest scorer, unable to get through any stage of the challenge.
 
  
  
 Before the vote out, the gangs discuss the nomination. Kriti tries to secure immunity for herself and asks everyone to vote Sandy out and says that Sandy had been talking badly about the other girls in the gang. Gang leader Raftaar asks the team to vote Sandy out if the claims were true.
 
 As the teams arrive for the vote out, Mini tells Rannvijay about Sandy talking about the girls behind their backs. Sandy is shocked to hear this and refuses the allegations altogether. Shubda supports him and says that there is no truth in what is being said about him. She adds that she had confronted Sandy, who was ready to talk to Kriti and clear his name if necessary. Raftaar and his gang are shocked and get confused over the decision and blame Kriti for making up false stories.
 
 Rannvijay tells the gang to vote one person out of the team. The gang nominates Sandy, Pavneet, and Khurshid. Before he goes, Khurshid tries to clear things out with Surbhi, who refuses to listen to him. Gang leader Prince shouts at her for acting arrogantly.
 
