CHANDIGARH: Putting an end to speculations by the students, parents and teachers,   ( ) has notified on its National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) website that there will not be any changes in the syllabus of   from last year.

 “The syllabus of NEET (UG), 2018 will be exactly same as it was for NEET (UG), 2017. There is no change in the syllabus for NEET (UG), 2018,” the notice on the website reads.
 
 The confusion had occurred after statements by the HRD minister were circulated online, stating that the Centre has decided to take into consideration the curricula of all the state boards while framing examination papers for NEET from this year. This led to panic among students and parents alike, who feared any last minute changes in the syllabus of NEET.
 
 “The media report quoting the human resource and development minister had spread a wave of panic among the students and parents, although it was quite unlikely that the CBSE would go in for any last minute changes in the curriculum. It would have been difficult for the examiners also to base the question paper on the syllabi of multiple state boards,” said a city-based NEET trainer Arvind  .
 
 He had also written to CBSE two days back, after students raised concerns. In his mail to the board, he had stated that any attempt to make any last minute changes in the curricula of NEET(UG) will lead to nation-wide protests, dissent and unnecessary litigation. “Even students who are studying in different state boards and are preparing for NEET, as a protocol, have been studying the CBSE syllabus to target NEET. Any last minute change will put the entire community of medical aspirants at a disadvantage.”
 
 He had requested CBSE to look into the matter and take a student-friendly decision by keeping the NEET (UG) 2018 syllabus same as that of the last year.
 
 Terming the notice as timely and student-friendly, Goyal said, “The CBSE has done well by its prompt action of putting up the notification on its official website announcing its decision to keep the syllabus the same as that of the last year. This has removed apprehension from the mind of all the stakeholders and has come as a big relief. Any attempt to change the syllabus should be announced at the beginning of Class XI. The Centre should make active efforts to convince all the state boards to follow the CBSE syllabus so that the real purpose of NEET can be achieved.”
 
 A NEET aspirant-cum-student of Government Girls’ Model Senior   in Sector 20, Rose  , said, “It is a great news as this had added to the stress levels of the already tensed examinees. We can now focus on the existing syllabus and prepare with full concentration.”
 
 
