PUNE: A special judge on Wednesday sentenced a 52-year-old private school bus driver to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment for repeated sexual assault on an 11-year-old student between August 2015 and March 2016 while ferrying her to and from school. 

 The accused, Sudam Ganpat  , who was on bail since April 25, 2016, was taken into custody and sent to   soon after special judge S H Gwalani pronounced the judgment. 
 
 "The accused cannot be shown any leniency," the judge said. "Crimes on girl child are increasingly constantly throughout the country and it appears that the enactment of new law has not made any change in the situation. If the accused is dealt with leniently, a wrong message will be sent to the society. Gullible minor girls, in particular, would not feel safe even in their school bus, as happened in the present case," the court said. 
 
 The court convicted Nimhan for offences under Sections 4 and 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code. A six-month jail was also pronounced for the offence of criminal intimidation. 
 
 Special public prosecutor   examined nine witnesses in support of the prosecution’s case. Nimhan had claimed false implication for having warned the survivor about complaining to her teacher for quarrelling with other students in the school bus and throwing colours and water balloons on students and bystanders. 
 
 Judge Gwalani observed that the victim had denied such a suggestion in her cross-examination and there was no explanation from the accused as to why he did not complain to her teacher and parents.
 
 “It is also highly improbable that victim student with the help of her mother, teacher and friend would implicate the accused in such heinous offence. No prudent lady would put the future of her tender aged daughter at stake only at the instance of her daughter and her friend,” the judge said. “Evidence of victim in respect of sexual assault and criminal intimidation by accused is well corroborated by evidence of her mother, teacher and her friend. These four witnesses proved about sexual assault on the victim by the accused,” the judge held. 
 
 The Assault 
 
 The survivor’s parents had hired services of a private school bus for ferrying their daughter to and from school. The incident came to light on March 21, 2016 when the survivor told her mother that her school bus driver was touching her inappropriately and had been sexually assaulting her for the last six months. The accused would make her sit in the driver’s cabin to commit the alleged acts and threatened her when she would complain of pain due to his acts. The survivor’s mother lodged a police complaint and the accused was arrested on March 26, 2016. 
 
