HYDERABAD: In spite of requests from Telangana government seeking a go-ahead to develop an international airport at Warangal, GMR is reluctant to allow a second airport within 150km radius of the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) at  .

 
 The united Andhra Pradesh government, while entering into concessionaire agreement with   (GHIAL) to develop the Shamshabad airport, had incorporated a clause stating that no other airport would be allowed within 150km of RGIA. The clause was put in as a new airport nearby would impact the revenue of the international airport.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 But now the state government desperately needs an airport at Warangal as it would help attract investments to the   (KMTP), which is being developed in 1,200 acres. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao laid the foundation stone for KMTP in November 2017.
 
 Official sources said that industries minister KT Rama Rao is keen on airport connectivity to Warangal and the Telangana government has written three letters to GMR since 2014 seeking relaxation on the clause. But the GMRHIAL, in which the state government has 13% equity, is ignoring the request. KTR also took the issue up with former civil aviation minister Ashok Gajapathi Raju during his Delhi visits.
 
 Director of Aviation (infrastructure and investment department) VN Bharat Reddy said “The GHIAL board has to take up the issue of relaxation. The state government is hopeful of getting a positive reply from them.”
 
 He added that the Warangal airport has been included in the regional connectivity scheme by the Centre. Once GMRHIAL gives clearance and 420 acres land is acquired, Airport Authority of India (AAI) has agreed to develop and maintain the airport.
 
 Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) officials said the government is expecting about Rs 11,000 crore investments in KMTP. So far, the government has signed MoUs with 22 firms with investments of Rs 3,000 crore. But due to the lack of an airport in the vicinity, a couple of firms have already moved to Hyderabad “At the time of laying the foundation stone, 22 firms entered into MoU with the state government. Of these, eight submitted their detailed project reports to the TSIIC. Many Korean companies have evinced interest to set up firms,” a top official of TSIIC told TOI.
 
 Industries department officials said that state government is only requesting for the revival of an old airport that existed during the   regime and continued till the early 1980s. The united AP government, in March 2007, had entered into an MoU with AAI for upgrade of the Warangal airport, but it was not taken up due to the restriction clause.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, GMR officials were not available for comment.
 
