The episode of   starts with   applying mehendi on Ishita’s hand and they both get emotional. She asks Ishita not to cry and says only she has the right on this auspicious mehendi as only she is their Ishimaa. Mrs. Bhalla is seen insisting   to apply mehendi. Pihu makes a danger symbol on Mihika’s hand. She asks Mrs. Bhalla to see and she gets angry on seeing the mehendi's design. Simmi comes and   opens her eyes and gets angry on seeing it. She starts scratching her hand and says that she will wipe it off but Aliya stops her by saying that it won’t be right to do that.

 As Simmi and   discuss the decorations at the sangeet ceremony with the event manager, Ishita arrives there and shows them the mehendi, she tells them that how beautiful the mehendi is. Ruhi also joins in. Simmi gets livid at them and tells Ruhi not to forget what she can do to her. Ishita tells her to stop troubling her kids. She challenges Param and Simmi and tells them that she won't let the wedding happen.
 
 Simmi removes Mihika's mehendi as she complains of itching. Mihika plans to tell everything to Raman but Param stops her and says it will be of no use. He says they should now think of their next move. Meanwhile, Aliya, Pihu, Ishita, and Adi hug each other and rejoice their small victory.
 
 Aaliya says she just hopes that Ishita finds that man before the wedding. Ashok and Ishita have a conversation, he tells her that if you have kept the note there then that man will be caught if he is there. He informs her that he has sent a man to monitor there and asks her to relax. He tells her to go to the sangeet function. 
 
 As Ishita is waiting at the doorstep, Raman mistakes her for Mihika and puts gajra in her hair, they share a romantic moment, but Mihika comes. She calls out Raman and he, after seeing that it is Ishita, blasts her. They leave for the function. Iyers reach the sangeet function. Mrs. Bhalla welcomes them. As the announcement about the bride and groom is done, Raman and Mihika start walking in together, but Mihika's dress gets stuck and she gets busy pulling it out. Ishita walks in and stands with Raman. Ruhi signs the lady to shower flowers. Reporter takes their pics. 
 
