NASHIK: A 24-year-old widow from   has lodged a police complaint against her in-laws for allegedly torturing her physically and mentally and cheating her to get their HIV positive son married to her three years ago. 

 The woman got married to her paternal cousin in June 2015 in the   area. In March 2017, when she got pregnant, a private doctor informed her that she was HIV+. Subsequently, the pregnancy was terminated.
 
 After her in-laws realised that she was HIV+, they allegedly stopped her from cooking in the house, started starving her and harassed her mentally and physically while alleging that she transmitted the disease to her husband. 
 
 Given the torture from her in-laws, she contacted her brother, who took her home in May 2017. While none of her in-laws came to take her back, her husband died of AIDS in January 2018. The woman was also verbally abused by her in-laws when she went to attend her husband's funeral.
 
 Feeling cheated and humiliated of being falsely accused of transmitting the disease to her husband, the woman lodged a complaint with the Kopargaon police on March 5, which was transferred to the   police in   city on Wednesday. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, one of her relatives said that despite being closely related to the in-laws, the woman was cheated. "Her husband was suffering from HIV for the past many years. After she was diagnosed with HIV, her husband even confided in her that it was because of him that she got the disease. He said he was not expecting the disease to be transmitted to her since he was on medication," said their relative.
 
 The Mumbai naka police have registered a case against four members of the woman's in-laws under sections 498 (A) (Husband or relative of husband of a woman subjecting her to cruelty), 420 (cheating), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (Intentional insult to provoke breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 406 (criminal breach of trust) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 Senior inspector   of the Mumbai Naka police station said, "We are investigating the case to ascertain who was infected with HIV first. Those accused by the woman will also be called for questioning soon."
 
 
