MUMBAI: Justice S A Bobde of the   on Saturday sounded a warning about the insidious incursion of the ' '. The jurist called for a need to regulate the sector. 

 "We must be careful about the dark web which can be misused by people with intention to harm the nation," said justice Bobde. "Today you can order anything on the dark web like drugs, weapons etc. You don't have any control over it, no record. So there is a great need to regulate this sector," he stressed, while delivering the inaugural address at the 50th seminar organised by Telecom Disputes Settlement & Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT) in Mumbai. 
 
 The focus was on 'Fundamentals and Future of Dispute Resolution in ABC&T (Airport, Broadcasting, Cyber and Telecom)' which TDSAT chairperson justice Shiva Kirti Singh said was aimed at "better understanding" of key emerging issues in these sectors.
 
 Chief guest, justice S S Kemkar, underscored the importance of "enforcing privacy" as did Maharashtra advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni. 
 
 Justice Kemkar said, "Something more needs to be done to overcome intrusion of privacy in the form of unsolicited communication with a commercial agenda, in view of the SC ruling." "Companies having personal data of customers should be barred from trading it..." 
 
 He called for an "effective system of grievance redressal by service providers" stating "responsive dispute redressal is a per-requisite for orderly growth of these four sectors where business transactions are complex and traverse borders and include different regulations." 
 
 NK Sinha and RN Chaubey, secretary I&B and Civil Aviation ministry respectively, also spoke at the event. 
 
 The Information Technology Act in India provides for civil adjudication of disputes. In each state, the secretary IT is the adjudicatory officer. 
 
  Former adjudicating officer in Maharashtra, Rajesh Agarwal, had decided 70-odd cases between 2011 and 2014, leaving a pendency in single digits when he moved out in January 2015. But the disposal has been dismal since. "Only eight cases were decided in 2015 and none since," said Kumbhakoni, adding that 190 cases are pending now. He made a case for hearing appeals in the city since most such cases emerged from this metro. 
 
  Rajan Mathews, director general, COAI, said the ability to differentiate between data that is personal and that is not will become crucial. Observing significant investment was required in telecom where the future is 5G, he said, "In the past two years, we have generated more data than what was generated in the past 100 years."
 
 "The fear of the dark web is no longer a perceived threat. It is very real and it is spreading, ensnaring school children too," veteran cyberlaw practitioner Pawan Duggal, a speaker, later told TOI. 
 
 Duggal, who said cyber crime in the country had increased since demonetisation, said, "Making Aadhar linkage mandatory is not a good idea as cyber security parameters regarding intermediaries are missing from the legal framework of the Aadhar Act." 
 
 He added there ought to be a stronger framework before any such linkage.
 
 
