 in Bengaluru will witness the battle of the three ‘R’s – Raghu, Raj and Ramesh. Considered a   fortress with sitting MLA S Raghu winning back-to-back since the formation of the constituency in 2008,   candidate and BBMP mayor R Sampath Raj is hoping for a breach this time. The third man in the battle is disgruntled Congress ticket aspirant P Ramesh who recently joined JD(S). Ramesh had lost to Raghu in 2013 on a close margin.

 
  
  
 
 Spread over 103 sq km, CV Raman Nagar comprises seven wards (CV Raman Nagar, Benniganahalli, New Thippasandra, Sarvajna Nagar, Hoysala Nagar, Jeevanbhima Nagar and Konena Agrahara) and has over 2.6 lakh registered voters. While Hindus make up the majority, there are over 43,000 Christians and 12,000 Muslims as well. Kannada speakers dominate the constituency and are followed by close to 47,000 Tamil and over 23,000 Malayalam speakers. There is also a small section that is Hindi-speaking.
 
 The constituency, which was mostly agricultural land, has seen rapid commercialisation within a decade. Speedy development has given rise to numerous cases of illegal construction, mainly encroachments, bad roads, water and sanitation issues and extreme unorganised garbage dumping.
 
 The burning issue is the 45-acre Kaggadasapura lake which is polluted with illegal inflow of drainage and rapid encroachments in the form of apartments and shops on its banks. In September 2017, local residents erupted in protest against the MLA and local BBMP officers after a 30-ft pathway was illegally constructed on the lake bed. Protesters alleged that this was to facilitate more illegal construction, including a temple. Like Bellandur, this lake too has started frothing recently.
 
 “The beautiful green CV Raman I knew of 10 years ago is now packed with wall-towall buildings and filthy drains. Illegal shops and businesses have filled the space and our lake is another Bellandur in the making. Our MLA is never there to address any issue and he isn’t accessible,” says Ashok, a resident of Jeevanbhima Nagar who revealed only his first name.
 
 Aam Aadmi Party member Anand Vasudevan says illegal commercial activity has been a major problem for residents in CV Raman Nagar. “Residents of Hoysala Nagar have been protesting against commercialisation but their cries have fallen on deaf ears,” says Vasudevan.
 
 With a sizeable population of the IT workforce making CV Raman Nagar their home, traffic bottlenecks in Kaggadasapura towards Mahadevpura and Old   are a perennial problem. The longstanding grievance of Kaggadasapura residents in CV Raman Nagar is the proposed railway overbridge on Kaggadasapura railway cross which still remains on paper. Work was to begin way back in 2012.
 
 
