TRICHY: The question paper leak and subsequent declaration of re-examination by central board of secondary education (CBSE) have piled pressure on students from the commerce stream. Many students fear that the inability of CBSE to make the examination process foolproof will affect their future prospects.

 While appearing for the economics paper on the concluding day of the CBSE board examination on March 26, students were relieved that a month-long examination stress would be over. However, the pressure is back on them in the form of a re-examination and the fact that the question paper isn’t going to be easier. Ironically, the ‘leaked’ economics paper was easier than expected with direct questions unlike in recent years. 
 
 “We now have to put extra efforts and start from scratch to ensure better marks,” says G Swetha, a class 12 student of Vignesh Vidyayala CBSE School. Economics was one subject that she was relying on among five papers to increase her overall marks. 
 
 “We have to score at least 450-460 out of the total 500 marks in class 12 to get into a decent institution but it is very difficult unlike in the state board. A reduction of 4-5 marks in overall marks because of economics would cost us a lot,” she says. An aspiring chartered accountant, another student who didn’t want to be identified said that she would have to compromise on her preparations for chartered accountant common proficiency test (CPT) to prepare for commerce re-exam. “I really hope that the re-exam doesn’t hamper my prospects of getting into a premium institution,” she said.
 
 “Board exam is not the only exam that students have to attend as most of them prepare for one entrance test or the other. The situation will be very tragic for students whose entrance test coincides with the re-exam,” said  , president of   complex, an academic forum of CBSE schools around  . 
 
 “Initially we felt that the news on paper leak was a hoax but it was painful to know that all the hard work put in by the students had gone in vain,” said the principal of Sivananda Balalaya CBSE School, K Bhanumathi.
 
 
