KOCHI: The much-hyped roll-on roll-off (Ro-Ro) service in the   sector that came to a squeaky halt within hours of the service, inaugurated by the chief minister, is now mired in a controversy. 

 
  
 
 Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation (KSINC) that stopped services on Saturday said that unscientific placement of mooring dolphin structures at Vypeen Jetty and lack of training to crew pose challenge for the authorities to run the service safely. 
 
 The authorities plan to resume the service in May.
 
 "The jetty was constructed by Cochin Port Trust (CPT) officials adhering to high standards. But, the moorings at Vypeen have been constructed near the jetty. The srank itself has expressed concern that it will cause great difficulty in the future. It would have been good if the moorings were constructed closer to the anchoring site," said an official of KSINC, which will operate the vessel between Fort Kochi and Vypeen.
 
 The mooring structure has been erected away from the jetty at Vypeen. This causes difficulty for the crew, when they anchor the vessel during low tide.
 
 He admitted that the crew members were not adequately trained to operate the internationally standard vessel. The official also conveyed his concern on the future of passenger boats when the two vessels would begin operations.
 
 "When the Ro-Ro vessel anchor at the jetty, the passenger boats cannot moor on the sides of it due to lack of space. We have to wait and hope that the service will be smooth when it resumes. Besides, issue over licence issue be solved within a few days. We expect to resume the service even before the scheduled date," the official said.
 
 Meanwhile, Kochi corporation opposition leader K J Antony blamed apathy on the part of the local body in conducting a study regarding the construction of the jetty.
 
 "The river mouth here witnesses two low tides and high tides each in 24 hour,s respectively. The construction of the jetty should have been based on the study of tides. But no study has been conducted. The difficulty in mooring is the result of lack of study," he said.
 
 "Many agencies are conducting boat services in Kochi backwaters. A single-window system for operating these boat services should be started by the CPT," said K Sivaprasad, associate professor of the department of ship, Cusat.
 
 
