THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala will host a meeting of   of   on April 10 to discuss in detail about the common fears that most of the southern states share over the terms of reference fixed for the 15th finance commission.

 
 Several south Indian state heads and political leaders have come out against the finance commission’s terms of reference, including the decision to adopt 2011 census data as the basis for resource allocation to states. According to them, if the 2011data is adopted, the share that south Indian states, most of which have been highly successful in adopting birth control measures compared to their counterparts in the north, would lose heavily in terms of resource allocation.
 
 "From 1976 onwards, 1971 census data is considered as the base by successive finance commissions. It was an accepted and undisputed norm. But, now, without any consultation, the 15th finance commission has decided to adopt 2011 census data for its work. This is unacceptable and would amount to penalising most of the southern states for the good work they had done in terms of materialising the national policy for birth control’’, said finance minister Thomas Isaac.
 
 Almost all southern states have been able to reduce their population growth in the last few decades. While the population in states like Bihar and Jharkhand recorded a decadal growth of over 20 percent, Kerala recorded a negative growth of over 25 percent in 2000-2011period.
 
 Isaac has personally called up finance ministers in Karnataka, Andhra and   and invited them to the conclave planned on April 10. Karnataka chief minister Siddramaiah, Tamil Nadu opposition leader M K Stalin and   chief minister   have already voiced their protest against the centre’s attempt to deny the due tax revenue share to the states they represent.
 
 It’s not just the 2011census data alone that would cost the southern states dearly. The thrust being given to the implementation of central government’s flagship programmes in different states would also backfire on southern states. ``Populist governments rule most of the southern states. Free food, better educational and health care facilities are common. But the call to reduce fiscal deficit and promote conditional funding would upset the rhythm of such populist governments. The attempts to ignore the diverse needs of different states should be resisted. We are not against the centre giving enough allocations to other states, but it should not penalise states for having made commendable achievements’’, Isaac said.
 
 
