CHENNAI: Holding the hands of her 10-year-old son, Renuka* stood watching a pelican glide gently over the waters of   lake on Sunday. “They (birds) are a great sight to relax,” she said.

 But she cannot spend more than 10 minutes at the spot where   in Puzhuthivakkam leads into the lake bund. “This place stinks,” she said, pointing at the sewage water entering the lake through storm water drains.
 
 According to residents in nearby localities like Ravanan Nagar and Murugappa Nagar, sewage water is let out into the lake via storm water drains because Chennai   has yet to provide underground piped sewerage service.
 
 But Metrowater officials claimed that most residents had septic tanks within their property and that it was unlikely sewage water was released into the lake. “It should be sullage water,” an official said. But a resident of a property abutting the lake told TOI that the septic tank capacity was small and to avoid overflow, he would release sewage into the lake from time to time.
 
 According to Metrowater sources, a pumping station built inside the lake area too has remained non-functional. “Levelling work is yet to be finished,” said an official, adding that two key pipe links need to be laid before sewage from the area can be diverted to the Perungudi sewage treatment plant.
 
 “One (link) is across the Velachery-Tambaram main road and another (link) is across the Veerangal Odai. We have sought and received permission from the state highways department for the project. As soon as the funds are sanctioned, the (pipeline) work will be executed,” a senior official said.
 
 The Puzhuthivakkam lake, which was once spread out over 100 acres, has shrunk to less than 30 acres primarily due to encroachments and conversion of lake area into residential localities. The 1.49km-long water body helps recharge groundwater table in the neighbourhood.
 
 In October 2016, TOI reported the abuse endured by this crucial water body. Then, city corporation officials maintained that the problem would be fixed by way of plugging the sewage let-out points. However, 14 months later, it is evident that the promise of action remained mere words.
 
 Corporation officials were not available for comment.
 
 * (name changed)
 
