HYDERABAD: The international   linked to Dubai, Hyderabad, Chennai and Kakinada, unearthed by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on April 21, is growing bigger as the investigations revealed that prime accused Nusumu Venkata Rambabu was allegedly convicted in Sharjah on the charges of cheating following which he fled the United Arab Emirates. 

 
 
  
 
 
 Rambabu, the kingpin of the scam in which diesel worth crores of rupees was imported illegally in the name of mineral spirit from Dubai via Chennai airport and distributed in Kakinada and Hyderabad, had floated another company in Dubai in the name of his driver and used it to import diesel illegally. Rambabu is a native of Kakinada. Sources said that the investigations also found that there are more such gangs and modules operating in the two Telugu States and that the DRI is likely to arrest more scamsters next week. Gulf Petrochem FZC of Sharjah, which also has an Indian subsidiary, had on January 27, 2016, filed a writ petition in the Hyderabad High Court seeking the arrest of Rambabu in connection with the cheating case booked in Dubai. The petition by Gulf Petrochem had made the Telangana Home Department as respondent and asked it to consult with the Ministry of Home Affairs for issuing lookout notices in all international air and seaports against accused Rambabu. It also sought necessary steps to secure the presence of Rambabu. It was alleged then that he was arrested in Thampanoor police station in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala. According to the case status information posted on the Hyderabad High Court website, the case is still pending.
 
 Gulf Petrochem then alleged that   had awarded Rambabu two years imprisonment for cheating the company to the tune of 18 lakh Dirhams. It was also alleged then Rambabu was involved in similar cheating cases. While he is still wanted in the UAE cases, the DRI's case is that Rambabu floated another company by name Viva in Dubai with his driver as director and started buying diesel from UAE oil companies and exporting it to India as mineral spirit to Aditya Marine, the company he owns. DRI has already arrested three other accused in the case, Kaja Moinuddin and Ansari of SAF Petroleum of Chennai and Satyanarayana Reddy, a hawala operator of East Godavari district. The scam has hawala angle where huge money is routed through hawala operations. 
 
 In the past eight months, it was found that the accused smuggled around 5366 MT (63 lakh litres) of diesel valued at around 17.7 crores in 285 containers. According to the Registrar of Companies records, Rambabu is also a director Adhitya Bunkers LLP of Chennai, Best Healthee Diary Products Private Limited of Kakinada, AM Bunkers Private Limited and Aditya Bunkering Private Limited of Kakinada. He also floated Aditya Marine UK in London in 2009 and closed it down in 2016. 
 
 
