CHENNAI: The life of   — often referred to as the Jim Corbett of south India — is an open book. Several open books, actually, with no less than eight by the   himself, who arrived in India in the 1800s and called it home till his death in 1974.

 Little though is known about his son Donald, hunter, clerk, one-time stunt body double and recluse. That last is the reason why software engineer   decided to track him down, hear his story and tell it to the world. The result is the book ‘The Last White Hunter: Reminiscences of a Colonial Shikari’, which Donald and Mathew co-authored and Indus Source Books published and will release later this month.
 
 “Donald is mentioned in his father’s books as he used to accompany him on his hunts. And when I discovered that Donald lived in Bengaluru, where I worked, I wanted to meet him as I was fascinated by the lives of colonial hunters,” says Mathew.
 
 “Donald was born in 1934 and had first-hand experience of life in India before and after Independence,” Mathew says. “Kenneth Anderson chose to live in India post 1947 when most of the British left.”
 
 Kenneth Anderson was almost as famous in the south of the country as Corbett was across the north. Like Corbett, he won acclaim not because he hunted for sport but to put an end to man-eating tigers and panthers.
 
 The Andersons, Mathew says, had no problem blending in with the locals in the ‘Garden City’.
 
  The book recounts a tale from Donald about his father running out in the streets of Bangalore on August 15, 1947, to celebrate Independence, despite British officers explicitly instructing him not to because it was unsafe. Kenneth returned home with garlands.
 
 “Donald loved hunting and the forests like his father and lived a colourful life until he died in 2014 at 80,” Mathew says.
 
 The first time the pair met, in 2005, Donald shooed away Mathew. “He was in penury,” says Mathew. “He’d had a steady job for several years but was in dire straits. His family had a large house abutting Cubbon Park. When I met him he was living in the outhouse on the property.”
 
 But in 2008, when Donald fell ill, Mathew spent time with him and helped pay the hospital bills. That was when he finally opened up: About how he played a stunt double for   in the film ‘Harry Black and the Tiger’; how he would venture into the jungle unafraid; how he helped a village hunt a rogue elephant that had killed several people; and how, finally, he came to lead a life of seclusion, refusing to meet even those who sought him out.
 
 “I guess I was the only one who kept knocking,” Mathew says.
 
