MUMBAI: In the biggest reshuffle of IAS officers since he took over the state’s reins in 2014, chief minister   on Wednesday appointed   as principal secretary in the CM’s office.

 Gagrani was MD, CIDCO. He has been instrumental in pushing the Navi Mumbai airport project and was on the search committee to pick the Mumbai University vice-chancellor. He will be in the CM’s office along iwth additional chief secretary Praveen Pardeshi and principal secretary Anil Diggikar.
 
 In all Fadnavis shifted 27 bureaucrats of the rank of additional chief secretary, principal secretary, secretary and collector.
 
 MMRDA commissioner UPS Madan will be new additional chief secretary (finance) in place of DK Jain, now chief secretary. Expenditure secretary RA Rajeev will be new MMRDA commissioner, while principal secretary (investment and protocol)  , who was posted in New Delhi, will replace Gagarani. General administration secretary   will be CEO of   and Village Industries Board, while special sales tax commissioner Parag Jaiin-Nainutia will be new chairman and MD, Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Co., and P   has been posted as member secretary, Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran. IT director M Sankarnarayanan is now director of municipal administration, while Mumbai repair board chief officer Sumant Bhange will be new MD of fisheries development corporation. Tourism development corporation MD Vijay Waghmare will be joint MD, MSRDC, and Mumbai housing board chief officer Subhash Lakhe will be joint secretary (finance). Suburban collector DS Kushwah replaces Lakhe, Virendra Singh is Nagpur civic chief, and Thane additional commissioner Sunil Chavan is Ratnagiri collector in place of Pradeep P, who will be IT director. The Mira-Bhayander commissioner BG Pawar will be Jalna collector and Rajeev K Mittal is expenditure secretary.
 
 Bureaucrats complained there was no policy on postings and transfers. Mumbai collector Sampada Mehta was shifted in less than a year, while Lakhe moves out a month before retiring. BG Pawar has been shunted out in less than 2 months and Kerketta in less than a year. In 3 years, the tourism department has seen 3 secretaries and the corporation 2 MDs. After secretary Valsa Nair was transferred last March, she was replaced by Nitin Gadre, who too was shunted out. MTDC MD KH Govindraj was appointed last June but is transferred, and his successor too has been shifted in less than a year. “CM must adhere to tenure norms. Frequent transfers have adverse impact on the administration,” an ex-chief secretary said.
 
 
