Driving a car through the country road with a calm mind and without any promises left to keep is pure bliss. 

 You can stop by the side of the road whenever you want; sit, relax and read your favourite book enjoying the cool breeze,” explains 65-year-old Subash Mathews as he narrates his experience of embarking on an impromptu solo drive across India.
 
 Post his retirement, the banker, who has worked in different parts of North India, started to look back at his life and beliefs. “My life till I retired was all about the bank and home. Since I am agnostic, I don’t believe in rebirth and I realised that I will be missing out if I don’t see the world,” he recalls, adding that’s what prompted him to take the 69-day adventure.
 He started his car journey from his house in Aluva on January 23 this year and returned on March 31. “I didn't have a set itinerary. I only took a book with me — Nithya Chaithanya Yathi’s A Commentary on the Bhagavad Gita. I believe history sleeps in the temples, hence decided on focusing on the temples in different parts of the country when I began the trip. I didn’t visit them out of faith,” he says. “Most of the temples were built in seventh century and the stone carvings on their walls are so fabulous that I realised that there is no meaning in living without seeing all of these.” 
 
 As Subash didn’t make any notes of the places he visited, he finds it difficult to explain the precise routes he took. “From Kochi, I went to Tamil Nadu via Kanyakumari. I visited Thiruvannamalai, Chidambaram and so on. After visiting the temples in Tamil Nadu, I drove through Karnataka,” he says. “From there, I didn’t feel like visiting temples anymore. Instead I wanted to explore more of my country. I wanted to know the different lifestyles and cultures and experience them,” he says.
 In Karnataka, he travelled through Bengaluru before visiting Pune and Kolhapur in Maharashtra and then headed to Gujarat. From there, he travelled to Chandigarh, Delhi, Haryana, Shimla and Dehradun.
 
 “The route from Shimla to Dehradun is the most beautiful one I have taken. It is almost 60km through the forest,” he says. “Forests in other states aren’t like the ones in Kerala. Malayalis may laugh when they show us their forests. Uttarakhand has a pine forest which has no shrubs or anything on the ground. It is more or less like a plantation,” he says.
 He also visited Rishikesh and from there headed to Nepal. Subash also has an interesting observation. “Throughout the journey, I was stopped by the cops only once, near Malakkapara waterfalls in Kerala. I find that a big positive. We have the freedom to live, travel and do whatever if we are following the constitution,” he says. 
 The scenario though was different when he crossed borders to Nepal. “There is checking every two to three kilometres. But they treat us politely too. I went to almost all parts of Nepal from Kathmandu to the Chinese border and also visited Lumbini,” he says.
 
 On his way back, he visited Bihar. “Bihar is the only underdeveloped place in India. The roads are red with pan waste, the kids are on roads selling things, there are hardly any schools. It is the India that we have read about, fifty years ago,” he says.
 
 Though it was an impromptu trip, Subash confesses that he did not have any adventure throughout journey and everything was as comfortable as it could be. “I only drove maximum 200 km daily. The rest of the day was spent on reading, sleeping and day dreaming,” he beams.
 
 The only “semblance of adventure” he had was at Chhattisgarh on his way back to Kerala. “When I reached there, everybody told me that I shouldn’t go to the interiors as there are Maoists. I felt, if I do not go there, fearing the risks, me travelling all the way alone would have no meaning. So, I went ahead. Though the roads were bad, the experience was good. There were actually no roads and I could hardly find a path. I think it was by God’s grace that I didn’t meet with any accidents. When I finally got tired, I decided to take some rest and parked my vehicle under a streetlight. The moment I stopped my vehicle, search lights from different areas focused on my car and an alarm went off. I got a bit scared and got out of the car and surrendered. By then, the army men came and questioned me. Once I explained why I was there, they told me that nobody travels through that route at that time of the night,” he explains, adding that he was then advised by the cops to sleep near a lorry stand.
 
 Subhash slept and cooked inside his car during his journey. According to him, except in Patna, Bihar, even mosquitoes didn’t bother him. His takeaway from the trip is that India has progressed a lot. “The India that I saw in the 80s was much different and I am extremely positive about my country’s progress. I am proud of my country. I was free like a bird and enjoyed every bit of it. There was no theft nor harm caused,” he says.
  
  
 Subash is married to Mary and the couple have a daughter named Maya and two sons, Vishnu and Surya. The family had sleepless nights till he returned safe and sound. Mary says, “I have no right to object as the only condition he had, while marrying me was that my children and I should travel with him whenever he wanted to go for a trip.”
 Meanwhile, Subash is now planning to go for an Indo-UK road trip.
 
