KOLKATA: A 38-year-old medical representative,  , was shot dead on Sunday during a rooftop New Year party at his friend’s home in Agarpara’s Kadamtala over an old animosity. The incident occurred between 11:30pm and 11:40pm, police sources said.

 Bose had called his wife Piyali over phone screaming for help before the incident. Piyali and their eight-year-old son ran to the friend’s place after getting the call.
 
 However, moments before they could reach the terrace, where   was, they heard gunshots. Rajesh had been shot on his forehead, at point blank. When Piyali and their son went up the stairs, they found Rajesh lying motionless in a pool of blood.
 
 Hours after the incident, Bose’s son narrated how he had heard the gunshot while he and his mother were ascending the stairs to the terrace. He said the suspect,   Roychowdhury’s, family tried to stop them from going to the terrace when they reached their house.
 
 “On my way up the terrace, I heard the gunshot and my father cried out my mother’s name. I rushed to the terrace but my father was lying there alone,” he said. He added that the shooter had fled using a ladder from the terrace.”
 
 Toton, a medical laboratory employee, had invited Rajesh to his home on Sunday.
 
 Ghola police said, prima facie investigations revealed Rajesh and Toton were very good friends. However, they had a tiff over a financial matter. The duo had stopped talking to each other over the past six months, locals said.
 
 Rajesh’s kin, however, were not aware of any such animosity. Rajesh’s mother said the family was not aware of any enmity between the two. “They were very good friends. Toton even used to come to our house for lunch. We never heard about any dispute between them. My son didn’t tell us anything about it. We can’t understand why Toton plotted my son’s murder,” she said.
 
 Piyali wasn’t in a position to speak. Sources said Toton had invited Rajesh to his home for a New Year party on Sunday. He had reportedly told Rajesh that he was keen to resolve their tiff and revive their old friendship.
 
 The duo had a few drinks before Rajesh was shot. The murderer had used a ladder to climb down from the terrace and flee. Toton is absconding, police said.
 
 Rajesh was taken to the   ospital where he was declared “brought dead”.
 
