Madurai: shopkeeper’s ritual to ward off evil (lighting camphor in a pumpkin and breaking the vegetable) might have led to fire at the   temple, said police sources who reviewed CCTV footages collected from the premises.

 The fire that broke out at 10.45pm on Friday and raged on for a few hours, damaged the 400-year-old Veera Vasantharaya Mandapam in the temple. District collector   had earlier said that an electrical fault sparked the fire. After watching the footage, Madurai city police have started questioning some people who may have done the ritual and left the camphor burning after the shops and the temple closed.
 
 “We’ve seen the footage and an inspector is questioning some people present in the temple when the fire broke out,” Madurai city police deputy commissioner (law and order) V   told TOI. “All shopkeepers do this ritual every Friday evening. There is enough evidence from the CCTV footage to suggest that the fire was started, perhaps inadvertently, by one of the shopkeepers,” the source said.
 
 The Arulmigu Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple Shopkeepers Association president Raj Nagulu said shopkeepers in the Vasantharaya mandapam did not do such a ritual. He alleged that firefighting was delayed. “I think the fire tender that came first could not spray water immediately. They had to wait for another truck to come to put out the fire,” said Nagulu.
 
 Denying there was a hold-up in firefighting,   Fire and Rescue Services department southern region deputy director P   said the brigade arrived within a minute of being alerted. “We have a truck stationed at the west entrance of the temple. But, by the time our men reached the spot, six to seven shops were in full blaze,” he said.
 
 Kumar said reasons other than an electrical fault could not be ruled out. “But we will know only after the technical team does a full review,” he said.
 
 The presence of flammable materials like puja materials and clothes in the shops could have led to the fire engulfing the stone mandapam within moments. Temple authorities said 127 shops operate inside the temple. This excludes 300 shops in the ‘Pudhu mandapam’ located across the eastern entrance where the fire mishap took place. “There were around 40 shops in Vasantharaya Mandapam. At least 20 of them were destroyed,” said a HR&CE department official. Collector   did not respond to TOI's calls.
 
 Vasantharaya mandapam suffered extensive structural damage which came to light when deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam visited the temple on Monday. A portion of the mandapam's ceiling, abutting the Aayiramkaal mandapam, had collapsed. Several pillars had cracked in the heat and the fire department has declared the structure unstable. Entry to the accident site has been barred.
 
 Earlier, a team of forensic experts headed by the deputy director of the regional forensic sciences lab visited the site and collected samples for analysis.
 
 
