LUDHIANA: An education department clerk was on Monday afternoon caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 70,000 from a private school staffer to resolve a complaint. Atam Nagar MLA Simrajit Singh   caught the official and live streamed the act on his official Facebook page. 

 Amit Mittal, the clerk who works at the office of   ( ), has alleged in the video that deputy district education officer (elementary)   and education department's legal adviser   had asked him to get the money.
 
 A member of the management of JLP Academy, Pakhowal Road, had approached Bains with a complaint that officials of the education department were seeking bribe from them over a complaint against the school. He alleged that the deputy DEO, through clerks, was blackmailing their school.
 
 Bains said, "Complainant Jaspreet Singh runs a small school where children of middle-class and under-privileged families study. Since the school is small with an enrolment of 107, they do not fulfil all the norms of the department."
 
 Bains alleged, "Deputy DEO Kuldeep Singh got some persons, who claimed to be from the media, to go to the school and ask for records. When the school refused, they filed a complaint with the local department. Deputy DEO then visited the school and asked for settlement of the complaint. Initially, they asked for Rs 50,000, but the deal got delayed due to municipal corporation elections. Then the DEO asked for Rs 70,000. The money was to be taken through a clerk. When the complainant was giving cash to the clerk, our team caught him."
 
 Kuldeep Singh said, "The school is running without affiliation and lacks infrastructure. The department received a complaint on which I visited the school a few days ago. The school was asked to deposit the documents. I am unaware of someone taking bribe in my name." 
 
 District education officer (elementary) Jaspreet Kaur said, "The department will inquire into the issue." 
 
 MLA Bains has reported the matter to the police and secretary, education, Krishan Kumar. 
 
 
