Nagpur: Sitabuldi police have started investigations against 35 city bus conductors for siphoning ticket money using 63 passenger cash cards. Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) city transport department too has started verifying the data of all 5,800 cash cards issued to passengers. Chairman of city transport committee Bunty Kukde told TOI police started investigations on a complaint lodged by him. “City transport department and two private agencies were not lodging complaint against the conductors even though this was a serious issue. I lodged a complaint with Sitabuldi police last week. I will regularly follow up and ensure offences are registered against all culprits,” he said. PI Hemant Kharabe said preliminary investigations have been started in the case. “I met Kukde and took details about the case. NMC has been made the complainant. Offence will be registered against the accused in the case and detailed investigation will be done,” he said. City transport manager Shivaji Jagtap said four letters were sent to private agencies supplying conductors — Unity Security Force, and Security and Intelligence Services (SIS) — directing them to lodge police complaint against the conductors in the case. “It is the responsibility of the agencies, as per terms and conditions of the contract. But the agencies did not lodge a police complaint. Show cause notice will be issued to the agencies. Also, we have started the process to recover misappropriated amount of Rs12.36 lakh from the two agencies. We will deduct the amount from their monthly payments,” he said. The case came to fore in November 2017. Following NMC’s directives, integrated bus transport manager — Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS) — had suspended 35 conductors in December. However, police complaint was not registered. TOI was the first to report about the case on January 1, highlighting that police complaint had not been lodged in the case. Finally, Kukde lodged a complaint with the police. Conductors adopted a unique modus operandi to swindle ticket money. Conductors had with them 63 cash cards issued in the name of passengers. They used to get the cash cards recharged at a dummy machine available with DIMTS office. Then, they used to issue these cash card tickets to passengers who paid then in cash. Jagtap said detailed verification of all 5,800 cash cards has been started. “We will track passengers and the conductors on duty, if we find more than three transactions from any cash card in a day. A passenger will generally not use cash card more than three times a day,” he said. Jagtap added DIMTS has also changed the dummy machine system. “Now, the machine is kept with only the IT manager. Earlier, the machine was operated by staffers and misused,” he said.