THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition leader   on Friday came out with records of 19 convicts - including Sunil Kumar alias Kodi Suni, the main convict in TP   murder case - being released on parole ahead of the murder of Youth Congress leader T H   in Kannur on Monday night, hinting at the role of the   in the murder. 

  Chennithala told a news conference here that both Shuhaib and RMP leader Chandrasekharan were killed in a similar manner and it was suspicious that several political murder convicts were released on parole together. He also flayed chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan's silence on the murder. 
 
 Former chief minister   also criticised police for not arresting anyone even four days after the murder. 
 
 State human rights commission has asked for a report from the additional chief secretary (home and vigilance) Subrata Biswas on providing financial compensation to the kith and kin of Shuhaib, who was murdered in Mattannur in Kannur.
 
 SHRC acting chairperson P Mohanadas said the police should act with vigour and the state police chief should personally supervise to ensure that an impartial and fair probe is conducted in the murder of Shuhaib. The commission also ordered state police chief Loknath Behera to submit a report about the progress in two weeks. The commission made its directive in a petition submitted by former KPCC president V M Sudheeran. The commission asked its probe official SP V MSandeep to visit the crime scene and submit a detailed report in 15 days. The commission will consider the reports of the state police chief, additional chief secretary (home) and the investigating officer for SHRC on March 7.
 
 In his petition, Sudheeran sought adequate compensation for Shuhaib’s family that includes his father, mother and three sisters. He said that 37 cuts were inflicted on his lower leg, and four on the hands. He also said that the police were trying to save the culprits. The commission observed that no culprit being arrested till now endorsed the allegations made by the petitioner.
 
