HYDERABAD: A 29-year-old Ola cab driver was arrested by   police for sexually assaulting a woman at AS Rao Nagar on January 5. On investigation, police discovered that the culprit had assaulted nine others, including a 10-year-old girl, in the recent past. 

 Police arrested Kandukuri Naga Madhu Kiran, from his home at Shantinagar, Lalapet on Saturday. At 10.50 pm on Jan 5, Kiran was waiting for a booking. He saw a woman waiting near   Crossroads. He offered her a ride saying he was done with his duty and could drop her at  . 
 
 "It was not an Ola booking. He offered to drop her at her destination. He, however, drove the car into a residential area of AS Rao Nagar. When the victim questioned him, he said he had to pick up a friend on the way," Kushaiguda sub-inspector   said.
 
 
 
 
 After driving for some time, he stopped the vehicle at a dark place and child-locked the car. He then moved to the rear seat of the car and touched the victim inappropriately, police said.
 
 “He also tried to pull the victim’s jeans. However, she started yelling. As the place was a residential area, he panicked and opened the car door and the victim disembarked from the vehicle. He then sped away from the spot,” the SI added. The victim then approached the Kushaiguda police.
 
 With the help of CCTV footage, the victim identified the car and, after verifying details, police on Saturday arrested the culprit. On interrogation, police found the culprit had earlier assaulted a 10-year-old minor girl from Kapra in October, 2017. He lured and took her to Kowkoor Dargah on his bike.
 
 “The 10-year-old was returning home. He asked her the route to Radhika Talent School and requested her to accompany him. When the victim agreed, he said he wanted to be friends with her and offered to take her on a long drive,” Shekhar added. Then, the culprit took her to Kowkoor Dargah and tied her up. According to police, he attempted to rape her, but the minor girl started crying. He panicked and left her at the place and fled away.
 
 “She was there for nearly 20 minutes. An auto driver, who went to the dargah to offer prayers, heard her crying and rescued her. He then dropped her home and later the family approached Kushaiguda police,” he added. However, police could not find any clue or evidence at that time.
 
 After his arrest, Kiran confessed to have assaulted the minor girl in October.
 
 “He also confessed that he had assaulted eight women so far. We found that he had the habit of visiting prostitutes as well,” the SI added.
 
 Police have booked the culprit under Sections 342 (Punishment for wrongful confinement), 354 (Assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) and 376 (Punishment for rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) for the recent assault case and another case under Sections 363 (Punishment for kidnapping), 376 (2) (i) of the IPC and 4 of POCSO Act for assaulting the minor.
 
 
