In the latest episode of  , while Tara (Arohi) is being treated by the doctor, Roma, Deep and Virat wait outside. They ask the doctor to save her life.

 Vedika tells Prithvi that she was jealous seeing Tara and Roma bond so well and was angry when Tara called her an orphan. Prithvi tells her that if Roma finds out, she will kill Vedika and asks her to go away.
 
 Roma says that she was worried about Tara's health and wants the person who tried to take her life dead. She asks Virat to find out. Deep gets emotional and goes to the temple, feeling guilty that he could not save Tara.
 
 Deep talks to himself and says that he still was in love with Arohi and his love was stopping him from getting close to Tara. The doctor comes out of the OT and says Tara was out of danger. Roma is elated and asks Deep to distribute sweets to the entire hospital.
 
 Vedika packs her stuff and prepares to leave. She decides to confront Tara one last time before going away. She goes and visits Tara (Arohi) in her room, who has an oxygen mask on her. Vedika tries to cut off her oxygen supply but Arohi gets up. She begs Vedika to not kill her. Arohi says that she knows Roma was her mother and tells her that she was the one who texted her everything.
 
 Arohi tells Vedika the entire truth about her identity. Vedika is disgusted after learning the truth and says that she did not want to be part of such a family. Vedika apologizes and says that she would help Arohi seek justice from the family.
 
 Deep comes in and Vedika hides under the bed. Deep is glad to find Tara out of danger. He goes and consults the nurse and inquires about Tara's health and asks if their baby was okay. The nurse tells him that Tara wasn't pregnant. He is shocked. Roma and Virat also come there and ask the doctor to check.
 
 The doctor asks the nurse for reports. He says that the nurse had the wrong files with her. Roma breathes a sigh of relief. Arohi is glad that the truth didn't come out and thanks the doctor for saving her life.
 
 Arohi takes rests. Virat confronts Deep and holds him responsible, saying that he did not kill Arohi during the encounter. Roma asks them not to fight.
 
