Panaji: Goa’s rich brinjal   faced a threat after a Karnataka-based University proposed trials for evaluating genetically modified Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt brinjal) gene on the highly-prized Agasaim brinjal, but strong opposition forced the central government to keep them on hold.

 This was almost a decade ago when protests arose over apprehensions about the likely hazards of Bt brinjal to human, animal and environmental health. Goa’s brinjal biodiversity is rich and adequately resistant to food borer. The government’s intervention helped stall the move.
 
 “At that stage, Goa’s scientific community was cautious in recommending trials on Bt brinjal out of apprehensions over possible transfer of the gene to other brinjal varieties and also other crops of solanatius family,” Jose R Faleiro, a former entomologist, Indian council of agricultural research (ICAR) said.
 
 The storm over commercial exploitation of bio-resources blew over for the moment. But people are wary about the threat of bio-piracy. 
 
 “The farmers may share the seeds of unique varieties and traditional knowledge with others unknowingly for its commercial use,” an official said.
 
 The piracy deprives them and communities of fair and equitable sharing of benefits of bio-resources. 
 
 Yet another International Biological Diversity Day on May 22 brings to the fore the slow bio-conservation process. “The biodiversity management committees (BMCs) of all panchayats will have to work with dedication to document what is left in their villages,” says Sachin Tendulkar, an agricultural professional.
 
 The Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) was formed more than a decade ago, but has achieved a modicum of success in motivating the BMC’s documentation effort in their villages. “In order to ensure documentation of tradable bio-resources and other aspects, the board has appointed nine support groups comprising experts and assisted BMCs in mapping bio-resources,” Pradip Sarmokadam, member secretary, GSBB said.
 
 Over the years, the mistake of introducing improved crop varieties, including rice varieties with an aim of higher production is being realized belatedly. 
 
 “The green revolution prompted farmers to dump traditional ones as their yield was less,” Tendulkar said.
 
 Previously, this knowledge was being transmitted orally since the hoary past, but now scientific documentation will help in legitimate conservation. 
 
 “The main benefit of documentation is protection for bio-resources, heritage sites and other bio-wealth, as it is being massacred by development activities now,” Nitin Borkar, an environmentalist.
 
 
