VILLUPURAM: A 65-year-old   was   after stumbling on an electric   kept for wild boars at Thirumangalam village here in the early hours of Sunday.

 The deceased was identified as A Chinnaiyan, 65, a micro sugarcane farmer. Chinnaiyan is survived by wife Rajeshwari and two sons. The police booked four people, including two minors, and sent them in judicial custody. They booked a case under Section 304 (ii) of the IPC based on their confession.
 
 Police said the incident occurred when Chinnaiyan was walking through a field on his way to the sugarcane farm. He was electrocuted when he stumbled on an   set for wild boars.
 
 Fellow villagers – Gunasekaran, 45, Jeyabal, 36, Veerapan, 17, and Anbu, 16 – had set up the electric fence. They saw Chinnaiyan electrocuted when they came to check if any   was trapped inside the electric fence. This was around 2am. They rushed the victim to the government Villupurm medical college and hospital where the doctors on duty declared Chinnaiyan brought dead.
 
 Kandamangalam police rushed to the spot and secured all the four people.
 
 According to Murugappan, a human rights activist, since July last year, at least 10 villagers had accidentally died after coming in contact with live electric fences and traps illegally set up to avert intrusion of wild animals into fields.
 
 In most cases, the victims had stumbled on the electric traps kept for wild animals. Murugappan alleged that poachers in the district do not hesitate to hunt even endangered species. “They even hunt our national bird peacock for its meat and feather by setting electric traps,” he said.
 
 He blamed official apathy (forest, electricity, and police officials) for such human fatalities, besides killing of wild animals. He said the poachers should be punished under various provisions of wildlife protection act, IPC for causing human fatalities and TNEB act for misusing government free electricity supply. Owing to official apathy, the poachers and land owners concerned get away with a slap on the wrist, Murugappan added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Villupuram district forest officer Raghul said setting up an electric fence is illegal. Assuring to take appropriate action to avert such tragedies in future, he said they have formed a special team to keep a check on this menace. 
 
 
