GUWAHATI/AMRITSAR: Three days after the unrest in   broke out, a delegation of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) visited the trouble-torn Punjabi Lane area on Sunday and dismissed reports of   in Shillong being under threat from the Khasi community. 

  The delegation, comprising DSGMC president Manjit Singh G K,   and K S Bhogal among others, reached Shillong and spoke to people of the Sikh community before holding a meeting with Meghalaya CM Conrad Sangma. 
 
  "No Sikh individual was attacked, no family has been displaced and kept in camps," Delhi legislator   said. Dismissing any communal angle to the clashes, CM Conrad Sangma said, "There is no communal angle. It was related to a particular locality and to a particular issue - a land issue that has been on for last 20-30 years. One small incident that took place in one locality became a spark for the whole thing." 
 
 Sirsa is also general secretary of the DSGMC and national spokesperson of Shiromani Akali Dal. He said, "Sikh families first settled in Punjabi Lane about 200 years ago. They are not going to be evicted from their land forcibly, but only by a legal setup." 
 
 Sangma, who met the DSGMC members, said, "In Delhi, they had a different opinion about what was happening here but after coming down here they have seen the reality. They have seen everyone moving freely. The issue of land has been on for so many years... there are claims and counter-claims and cases. We have to bring everyone on board and seek an amicable solution." The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) has also sent a delegation, led by Takht Damdama Sahib Jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh, to help the Sikh community of Shillong. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the delegation would submit its report on June 6, a day after its return to Amritsar.
 
 "There was no attack on us by a section of local community on Saturday night and the administration lifted the curfew till 3pm," Shillong-based Gurdwara Guru Nanak Darbar general secretary Gujit Singh said on Sunday. "The situation is under control but tense," said Manjit Singh GK after meeting Sangma and local Sikh representatives. "There has not been any loss of life since Thursday. There were a couple of incidents of shops being set on fire, police have kept both the communities away from each other," he added. 
 
 
