CHANDIGARH: In a major embarrassment for AAP, the main opposition in   assembly, two of its MLAs remained seated in the   when the rest of party MLAs staged a walkout over the states’s drug problem issue during the governor’s address on the first day of budget session on Tuesday.

 Leader of Opposition  , who led the walkout, said he would seek an explanation from both the MLAs -- Kultar Singh   (Kotkapura) and Amarjit Singh Sandoa (Ropar) -- for not toeing the party line. The party also elected chief whip and whips later in the day to avert such a similar situation in future.
 
 
 Incidentally, both Sandhwan and Sandoa were part of the group that met the central leadership in Delhi after the row over party supremo Arvind Kejriwal’s apology to SAD’s Bikram Singh Majithia for alleging that he was involved in drug trade. Last week, Sandhwan had also accused Khaira of trying to split the party and demanded action against him.
 
 On Tuesday, the moment Punjab governor V P   began elaborating on the steps taken by the state government to check drug abuse, Khaira stood up and objected to the claims. As Badnore went on, Khaira led a walkout of his party’s MLAs but Sandhwan and Sandoa remained seated. On the other hand, Lok Insaaf Party’s Bains brothers joined Khaira despite having broken the alliance with AAP.
 
 Later Khaira said, “The party will call for an explanation. Once a decision was taken unanimously at the meeting of party MLAs on Monday, it cannot be defied.”
 
 Talking to TOI, the two MLAs who had not joined the walkout, said they were of the view that the governor’s address should be listened to and then there would be a time slot to raise objections.
 
 “I was not informed about any such decision by the party, to walkout. Secondly, it is my view that we should listed to the governor’s address and not politicize the chair. We could have discussed it later. Just creating chaos is not the mandate. Otherwise, it is my duty to follow my leader (Khaira). I could not make it to the meeting of MLAs in Chandigarh on Monday,” said Sandhwan.
 
 He added, “It should not be seen as an act of defiance. There was no whip on the walkout.”
 
 Sandoa too echoed his view, “We thought we will counter the governor on the wrong claims of achievements of the   government after listening to the address. I had left the meeting of MLAs on Monday early and was not aware of any such decision to walkout.”
 
