KOLKATA: Amidst fresh allegations by pacer Mohammad Shami’s wife that her husband had been involved in a relationship with a Pakistani woman since 2017, the police have increased security outside Hasin Jahan’s house on Wednesday. Hasin had alleged that her husband was threatening her and asking her to withdraw her case against him. She claimed that these threats were coming through WhatsApp calls.

 “We have arranged for a police picket outside her house after she expressed concerns about her security,” explained an officer.
 
 The BCCI piled on pressure on the pacer on Wednesday after it emerged that the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA) has written to it to investigate the match-fixing charges levelled against Shami by Hasin. The CoA, led by  , has given a seven-day deadline to BCCI’s anti-corruption unit head Neeraj Kumar to submit the report on the issue. The allegations state that Shami took money from a Pakistani girl on the insistence of an Englandbased businessman. The COA has specifically asked Kumar to pay attention to the alleged audio recording of the telephone conversation between Shami and his wife.
 
 On Wednesday, Hasin went to Lalbazar, from where the investigating officer took her to   for her medical examination.   sources said they have also carried out forensic test of Shami’s BMW, from which the mobile phone was seized.
 
 Meanwhile, a new purported conversation between Shami and Hasin has emerged where the couple is heard arguing. Shami is heard requesting Hasin to meet and settle the spat. He is also heard asking Hasin about the future of their family. Hasin, though, is heard telling Shami to accept the charges against him and seek forgiveness through a press conference. Furthermore, he will will have to provide in writing that he will not get involved in any extramarital affair and should give Hasin the respect that a wife deserves.
 
 Hasin’s associates said they are still open to continuing the dialogue. “On each occasion, we have waited for Shami to respond. We waited 48 hours after the social media post to approach cops. We are waiting for Shami to talk to us before we record our formal statement. The dialogue channel is open provided he is ready to talk in a meaningful manner,” said a source.
 
