AGRA: After months of bitter debate that threatened to take a communal turn in  , the Dalit groom who said it was his constitutionally granted right to take his wedding procession through any part of town has finally had his way. 

 
 On Sunday, a few days after Sanjay Kumar’s petition in the Allahabad high court was dismissed and sent back to the UP police for action it deemed fit, upper caste residents of   in Kasganj district of Uttar Pradesh have finally struck a compromise and allowed the Dalit man, a 27-year-old Jatav, to take out his baraat from wherever he wanted on April 20. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In a meeting that came even as a string of Dalit MPs wrote to PM   about the “ill treatment” they and their community members were facing in UP, senior officials of the administration and the police brokered a compromise between the Thakurs and the youth and his relatives. After discussing various options, it was decided that Sanjay’s wedding party could pass through areas that had   houses along the way. 
 
 
  
 
 
 The “understanding” was signed by both the parties in the presence of the officials and eminent villagers. There were some caveats though. There would be no “political persons” participating in the wedding procession and there would be no weapons on display or use of alcohol. Care would also have to be taken to avoid “objectionable” language or words blared through the sound system. Sanjay’s baraat had become a matter of prestige for the 40 Thakur and five Jatav families of Nizampur and Kasganj. 
 
 On March 30, the Allahabad high court had dismissed Sanjay’s petition seeking its intervention to allow him to take his baraat through the Thakur dominated areas. But Sanjay and his fiancée Sheetal stuck to their guns all along. They said that upper caste men in the village threatened them and refused to allow the horse-led wedding procession in the village which has only 50 Dalit houses and over 300 upper caste families. And that “in this day and age” they would have none of it.
 
 
