NEW DELHI: Of the eight properties   by the Delhi   for   April 4,   in   and another haveli in   are notified  . Another haveli at Churiwalan is listed for notification by Intach but is pending. 

 Notified or not, these buildings regularly suffer from neglect and unauthorised constructions. Haksar Haveli may have a rich history going back to Jawaharlal Nehru, but that hasn’t stopped vandals from targeting it. Only small portions of the haveli still stand today; much of its original grandeur has vanished through the years. 
 
 The erstwhile Municipal Corporation of Delhi had brought out a list of heritage properties in the Walled City. There were 757 buildings in that for notification, but very few buildings were havelis. So Intach came out with a second list of buildings for notification that had 551 buildings that were mostly havelis. These were notified in 2016. A third list is pending notification. 
 
 “Most of these havelis are over a century old and need protection. Owners, however, either don’t want to cooperate or don’t have the means to do it. These havelis need to be preserved as many of them are being altered beyond recognition. A notified heritage building cannot be altered but few pay attention to the rules,” said a heritage expert.
 
 Haksar Haveli was in the original 2010 list of MCD. Today, it’s possible to miss it completely. Most parts of the original building have either collapsed or been demolished through the years, and only a narrow lane for entry could be seen. Entry is restricted though locals all know the structure for being the famous Haksar Haveli where Nehru married Kamala Nehru. 
 
 The Jogiwada haveli was in the second list. “This haveli is largely in ruins and retains only its crumbling ground-floor facade. The building has an early colonial design with the use of an ornate entablature for its pointed arch entrance,” said an expert.
 
 Many havelis are fading away like this despite growing awareness. “It doesn’t matter if a property is notified heritage building or not as the north corporation has failed to check violations. People are defacing buildings, constructing additional floors, altering the original design or simply letting the building fall to pieces because they can’t afford repairs,” said a resident of Kucha Pati Ram.
 
 The high court order gives hope, nevertheless. 
 
 
