In the latest episode of  , after Tanuja threatens to throw Netra out of the house, the latter talks to her mother. Netra worries that if her plan fails, she would have to leave the house. Kanchan suggests her not to lose hope and try the same tactics she used on Rishi eight years ago.

 
 Rishi and Manpreet meet the doctor to collect the reports. The doctor tells them that Rishi suffered some complications after inhaling the smoke caused by the fire at the Bedi house. Due to the same reason, he could face problems in family planning as well. Rishi is shocked on hearing this. The doctor suggests that Rishi freeze his sperms if he wants to have children in the future. Rishi says that he needs time to think.
 
 Rishi comes back home and finds Tanuja in the kitchen. She asks him why he was late again. Tanuja wonders if she should tell Rishi what Netra had said to her the other day. She looks tensed. Rishi asks her if she is okay. Tanuja stops him and says she is worried about something but refuses to divulge anything further. When Rishi asks her again, Tanuja says she is worried about ageing and wrinkles. Rishi laughs and says that he will always love her. 
 
 Netra applies 'sindoor' and says that Tanuja will never be able to get her out of the house and Rishi's heart.
 
 
  
 Later, Netra comes to Rishi's room and finds him sleeping. She pretends to fall in front of him, waking him up. Rishi helps her get up and asks her what's wrong. He finds out that Netra had fever. She asks him not to worry about her. Rishi accompanies her to the room. Netra feels when Tanuja will see them together like this, she will get upset and leave Rishi.
 
 Rishi sees Netra wearing 'mangalsutra' and questions her. Netra says that she had always thought that Rishi would marry her but it never happened. Rishi apologizes to her and says that he had always loved Tanuja and he cannot change destiny. Netra says she is feeling dizzy and asks Rishi to stay with her in the room. Rishi vehemently agrees.
 
 
