KOCHI: The decision of the state government to regularize professors, associate professors and assistant professors of Government Medical College, Kalamassery, has come as a morale booster for its employees. The government order regularizing them was issued on Saturday, the eve of chief minister laying the foundation stone of Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) next to the medical college campus.

 
 Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan will lay the foundation stone of the CCRC at 9.30 am on Sunday. He will also commission the CT scanner at the medical college. Though the UDF government took over the medical college from Cooperative Academy for Professional Excellence ( ) in 2013, the employees were given standalone status for five years.
 
 “The regularization process for other employees are progressing fast. When the LDF government came to power, it immediately started measures to regularize the employees without waiting for five years to complete. The government is regularizing professors, associate professors and assistant professors whose verification had been completed,” health minister   said.
 
 The minister said they are designing projects for the comprehensive development of the medical college. “A total of Rs 368 crore has been allotted for constructing super specialty block, mother and child welfare block, staff quarters, PG quarters and auditorium,” she said. The state government provided Rs 25 crore for an imaging centre at the medical college while Rs 12 crore was allotted for installing cathlab. The government also gave Rs 58 crore to   for closing a loan taken by the medical college few years ago. It created 162 posts including that of doctors in specialty and super specialty departments, the minister said.
 
 The CT scanner was procured using Rs 5 crore from the MLA fund of  . The state government contributed Rs 36 lakh for purchasing the scanner machine that cost Rs 5.36 crore.
 
 The main building of the cancer centre will be six-storeyed structure with a built-up area of more than five lakh sq ft. Departments like paediatric oncology, community oncology, telemedicine and yoga and integrated medicine, cancer registry, MRD and data centre, bulk drug and general store, guest rooms and mortuary would be housed in the building. As per the schedule, the construction of the entire building will be over in 600 days.
 
 
