MUMBAI: After the   against leading oncologist Dr  , a manager and two employees of  , the Enforcement Directorate (ED) too has decided to close the money-laundering probe against them. Pritam Munde, daughter of late BJP leader  , is a director in the cooperative bank.

 The CBI had accused Advani and the others of allegedly adopting fraudulent means to deposit demonetised currency into the bank’s Ghatkopar branch.
 
 The ED’s proceedings were based on the CBI case, so they have no option but to close the investigation, said a source. “Two months ago, the CBI filed a closure report before a court, stating that there was no evidence to support their cheating case. The CBI communicated the same to the ED recently,” he added.
 
 Money-laundering cases can be registered and probed only if there is any predicate offence registered against the accused with any other investigating agency.
 
 On December 15, 2016, the bank’s Pune branch manager Shirish Thingle and two others were intercepted at Chembur with Rs 10 crore. They were reportedly heading to Pune. The police informed the income tax department and the case was referred to the CBI for criminal investigation. The CBI claimed that a total of Rs 3.5 crore in banned notes was deposited into the Ghatkopar branch of the bank after November 8, 2016. Of this, about Rs 2 crore was deposited into the account of Aurangabad-based CIIGMA Hospital. This money was allegedly collected from Advani’s home. The CBI registered a fraud and corruption case against Thingle and the two others, who were employed at the bank’s Ghatkopar branch, CIIGMA and Advani. 
 
 Subsequently, the ED too registered a money-laundering case. Advani had maintained the money did not belong to him. The bank too had denied any wrongdoing.
 
 However, a year on, the CBI didn’t found substantial evidences to support the case. Three months ago, they filed a closure report before the court closing the probe. Subsequently, the ED too decided to close their probe against the accused person.
 
 
