JAIPUR: Accidents on city roads continue to snuff out young lives. Two persons were killed in two separate accidents in the city on Saturday night. First, a 19-year-old girl returning after attending a sports related function died when an unidentified truck hit her scooter near   on Tonk Road at 10.30 pm on Saturday.

 The victim was identified as Kritika Sharma, a resident of Kaveri Marg in Mansarovar area. “She was heading from Pratap Nagar to her house when an unidentified tractor ran over her near LIC building near Haldi Ghati Marg,” said Prem Singh of accident police station. Singh said that her body was handed over to the family after post-mortem on Sunday morning. “Her father was devastated after the accident. He had to be consoled after we informed him about the tragic death of his daughter,” the official told TOI. 
 
 The police said that she played sports in her college which was located in Pratap Nagar. The accident occurred when she was returning to her house. The police said that they are retrieving CCTV footage of the area to identify the tractor.
 
 In another accident, a 19-year-old youth was killed after he hit into an e-rickshaw coming from a wrong side near Jal Mahal area of the city. The victim, Nitin Saini, a resident of Nahargarh area was returning to his house after attending a function in the nearby area, encountered a speeing driven e-rickshaw. While Saini was killed in the accident, two other persons sustained injuries. “Saini was rushed to the hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The driver of the rickshaw fled from the spot. Parents were informed about their son’s accident and the body was kept at the mortuary,” a cop said.
 
 “The body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. We have filed a case and matter is under investigation,” said an official at accident police station, Jaipur north.
 
 Jaipur has been witnessing a spate of accidents, involving heavy vehicles. On Saturday morning too, a BCom student was killed when a speeding private bus ran over him near Hospital Road area of the city.
 
 
