CHENNAI: Having learned lessons from poor monsoons and having fought bitter legal battles with neighbours in inter-state river disputes, water-starved TN has embarked on a massive mission to build 20,000 check dams, boulder dams, and gabion structures across gullies/channels in rural areas to impede the flow of surface water and retain it for a longer time. Concrete dams will be in place in plains, boulders will be used in hilly/slope areas, and gabion structures (small stone and wire dams) on steeper slopes. 

 The rural development department has taken up construction of 2,000 cement concrete check dams, 9,300 boulder dams and 8,700 gabion structures based on guidelines issued by the Centre under  , and proper GIS tagging done for durable assets. "We changed the strategy from storing surface water to recharging the groundwater table by constructing three types of check dams, based on a pilot study in   and   districts," rural development additional director Muthu Meenal said. Some 356 check dams were built in select villages of Kanniyambadi block in Vellore, 900 boulder and gabion structures in Tiruvannamalai, and they found the recent spell of rain increasing the storage in agriculture wells. 
 
 The Centre and the state with share the cost on a 75:25 ratio for the 250-crore. The state which depends on the two monsoons suffered a drought-like stuation last year after they failed. Other than Vellore and Tiruvannamalai, the worst-affected districts will get more check dams -   (980), Villupuram (950),   (835), Tirunelveli (780) and Ramanthapuram (770). Plans are on to enhance the check dams under MGNREGA to 40,000 next year and build 2 lakh structures in four years. The agriculture department last week found that in five revenue blocks in   and seven blocks in   and  , standing samba crop faced risk due to lack of water bodies.
 
 Considering the importance of rainwater conservation and groundwater recharge, it is the right time to look upon means to utilise a part of the surplus surface runoff flowing down to the sea through construction of check dams, rural development secretary Hans Raj Verma said. 
 
 
