NEW DELHI: 
 

 
 The idea of greater autonomy for central, state and deemed universities and other regulation relating to autonomy of colleges is to give functional independence within the regulatory framework to those institutions which have been consecutively acquiring higher grades of NAAC and they should be given freedom with regard to their curriculum, courses and other innovations. These regulations have been passed by the commission and is being forwarded to the MHRD for concurrence. Autonomy is linked with accountability and institutions are accountable for administration of functional management of academic environment, for research, innovation and facilitating students for the better teaching learning. 
 
 
 
  has the authority that it can anytime make a visit to any institution and can suggest whatever is required in terms of the fulfillment of the provisions which are there in the regulations. 
 
 
 
 The guiding principles of the government and the UGC is access, equity, affordability and accountability for higher education. Affordability is one thing each institution should look into and how it can through differential fee mechanism for poor and meritorious students. My appeal to the private institutions is that they should also think about this and have some mechanism of their own so as to make higher education accessible for the poorest communities, for aspirants in remote areas and among tribal population.
 
 
 
 After serving as VC of BHU, Varanasi, Dr  , Sagar and  , Indore and director of NAAC I am aware of the various problems and challenges faced by universities. I am aware of the expectations not only of the universities but also of the 40,000 odd colleges and 4 crores students. I will always have an eye on students, particularly the poorest of the poor. The issues are different because central universities are centrally-funded and so there is no resource crunch. But the major contribution in higher education comes from state universities - be it the government or private universities. Largest chunk of the students are enrolled there. So we have to also focus on how state-run universities could contribute more in the overall development of higher education and in promotion of quality and excellence. I would urge state governments to give priority to higher education in particular, as ultimately it is going to benefit the overall socio-economic scenario of the state.
 
 
 
 The GER picked up in the last decade and then naturally after that it’s little slow. But the target is by 2020 it should be 30%. In comparison to developed countries it is less, but we are progressing in the right direction. The issues are linked – expansion is one thing, but then again the challenge is how to maintain quality as well. There is also the question of global competitiveness and rankings. That’s why the government is thinking in both directions. At one level we are going to increase the GER with required expansion, as well as looking at equity aspect of reaching the marginalized groups and enrolment of females, which is now fortunately increasing. Then there are issues like how to build world class institutions for which the government is planning the institutions of eminence under which 10 public and 10 private universities will be selected. The education reforms underway will bear fruits in a few years. 
 
 
 
 It is important to prioritize as how to reach the unreached, to reach the remote and tribal population. The AISHE showed the regional disparity where states like Bihar, Jharkhand and Odisha are lagging behind. MHRD is already looking at it. My appeal to private players is to create new institutions in remote and tribal areas which will serve the cause of those people who are not in the fold of the higher education. At the same time state governments should also set it as priority to have institutions in such areas. 
 
 Also institutions should not repeat what is happening in Bengaluru or Delhi. Some locally need based vocational programmes should be taken up by institutions. 
 
 
 
 Things are progressing and with the concurrence of the Government, we will be able to resolve these issues as the procedure to bring out some regulation is underway. Whatever we do should be learner centric and teacher friendly. So whatever is required for development of the teachers like faculty enrichment – not only monetary benefits but also intellectual enrichment and engagement in researches and expanding horizon of their knowledge – will be done. I look at UGC not only as grant allocation body but as an apex think-thank of India on education.
 
 
 
 DP Singh: I appeal to heads of universities and colleges that we should have a mechanism of dialogue with the students through students’ unions or councils. Student’s voices should be heard and their problems should be resolved in a time bound manner. We can reduce the unrest in the campuses only through dialogue.
 
