NEW DELHI: At 3am, Anwar Shah woke up to loud cries from a nearby shanty. His mind immediately went back to a similar incident six years ago — only, it was his village in Myanmar’s Rakhine. His house, and of hundreds of   like him, was burned to ashes in front of his eyes, leaving him homeless. On Sunday, Shah was without a roof for a second time. Worse still, like the previous occasion, the daily wager had lost all documents that could identify him.

 The residents of the refugee camp in   in southeast Delhi are desolate and unsure of their future. There are some 230 of them, and all are in the same boat. ID cards and special visas issued by the United Nations have been reduced to ashes. Most of them have also lost documents related to their properties in Myanmar. 
 
 The fire, suspected to have started from a toilet in the camp, spread so quickly that none of them had any time to retrieve their belongings. By dawn, the devastation was complete. 
 
 “They lost everything — their utensils, clothes, food items and, most importantly, their documents. The shanties were built very close to each other and everything caught fire. The people didn’t even have drinking water,” said  , secretary,  , an organisation of Muslims.
 
 Realising the enormity of the damage, police called in more reinforcements and tried to provide basic necessities to as many refugees as possible. They also set up a tarpaulin to provide some shade from the harsh sun. Senior police officers confirmed that they would arrange for food as well. Soon, people from nearby areas and civic society members, too, set up temporary kitchens where food was prepared and served to the camp residents. Volunteers from UN also reached the spot.
 
 Despite a preliminary probe indicating a short circuit as the cause of the fire, some alleged foul play. “While there is an environment of harmony among the refugees and the locals, the group has been facing eviction threats as they are not owners of the land,” Rahman claimed.
 
 
