CHANDIGARH: Stabbing, stone pelting and brawls left 10 people injured during the festival of   in the city on Friday. At Behlana, two men stabbed three persons identified as Partap Rana, Chotu Kanti, 50, and his son  , 28, with a sharp-edged weapon over a petty issue.

  
  
 
 Manoj said his children were playing on the street and accidentally mud was splashed on the two accused, Govind of Dhanas and Surjit Singh of  . The two started abusing them. “When I and my father intervened, the accused attacked us. They stabbed our neighbour Rana too when he tried to pacify them,” said Manoj. All the three were taken to   and Hospital, Sector 32, for treatment. The accused had visited a woman living in the neighbourhood. Both were arrested.
 
 Four members of a family, including a woman, allegedly pelted stones at a house in Sector 52. Rinku, the house owner, said the accused, Rajpal, his two sons Vicky and Manu and his wife Rameshwari also damaged two motorcycles parked outside his house. Later, Vicky and Manu allegedly stabbed Rinku on his abdomen. Police said both the families have an old dispute since Rinku had married Rajpal’s daughter against his will in 2014. Police have booked the accused for attempt to murder.
 
 Another incident of stabbing was reported from  , Manimajra. Mangal Singh alleged three men stabbed him with a sharp-edge weapon. Rajeev Kumar, station house officer, IT Park, said the three were fighting and Mangal Singh started to film them on his mobile phone. The three then attacked him and fled, police said. “All the accused have been identified and will be arrested soon,” said Kumar.
 
 Santosh Mishra, a resident of Hallomajra, said 20   pelted stones at his house and injured him, his wife and a relative. Santosh said the miscreants were creating a ruckus outside his house. When his wife Ranju Mishra objected to their behaviour, the miscreants started pelting stone on the house. Santosh , Ranju and Dinesh Jha were admitted to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32Sector 31 police have registered a case. No arrests have been made so far. 
 
 In Sector 49, three miscreants entered a house and thrashed Inderjit Singh and his wife. The accused also damaged household articles. Around 4 pm, Inderjit was sitting with his wife when he noticed the three thrashing his neighour. When they tried to save him, the accused assaulted them. Police have arrested one of the accused, Sandeep, a resident of Sector 49.
 
 
