KOLKATA: Back-to-back raids on former   SP  's Madurdaha flat continued for the sixth day on Thursday with the CID sending a 20-member team with trunks to search five flats and question two other caretakers of the apartment. Government files, arms licence applications, employment applications and liquor bottles were seized from the flats.

 Meanwhile, Kharagpur Local police station lodged an FIR against Bharati Ghosh and three other policemen as prompted by the   on Wednesday in connection with an alleged extortion of Rs 45 lakh from a Bashirhat-based businessman one and half years ago.
 
 On Thursday morning, a CID team reached Ghosh's Madurdaha apartment with huge trunks stacked inside a police van. Another team already stationed there since Wednesday had conducted raids throughout the night. A CID officer said they recovered government files and documents pertaining to West Midnapore district. Among the documents seized are applications of arms licence and verification roles of different candidates who have applied for government jobs.
 
 "Searches were conducted yesterday and today at different properties belonging to a retired IPS officer. Extensive videography was conducted," said Nishat Pervez, DIG (operations), CID. Police also seized 57 sealed bottles of foreign liquor (total 39 liters) and informed the state excise department. "There is no limit to possession of foreign liquor in Bengal, provided the owner justifies the purchase with proper documents," said an official.
 
 The CID on Thursday questioned two other caretakers of the apartment. Around 1pm, caretaker Alok Adhikari came out of the building and was questioned by the officers. "I have been working here for the past few years. But I never looked after the flats of MAV Raju or Bharati Ghosh," he said.
 
 The trunks kept outside the apartment triggered speculations among locals. "They have been here for the past few days. Several officers have visited the apartment. But the trunks have not been taken inside," said a tea stall owner nearby.
 
 Bharati's husband Raju, admitted to hospital on Wednesday, complained of high BP and chest pain. "We are mulling all legal actions," said Pinaki Bhattacharya, Ghosh's lawyer.
 
 
