Ludhiana: A local court has sentenced four drug peddlers to ten years rigorous imprisonment for conscious possession of 360kg of poppy husk. The special court judge Kuldip Singh Kareer also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh each on convicts Gurmail Singh Fauji, Avtar Singh (both of Bhamipura Kalan), Jagdish Singh of Talwandi Rai, and Tarseem Singh of Bagha Purana. In default of payment of fine, they will have to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a year. However, the court acquitted Chamkaur Singh and Jagmeet Singh of the charges filed against them by the police.

 On March 15 March 2014, Hathur police had booked six accused under Section 15 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and 420 (fraud), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC on allegations of conscious possession of poppy husk.
 
 As per prosecution, inspector Shiv Kamal Singh and other police officials were present in the area of Drain Bridge, Hathur, where he received secret information that Avtar Singh was driving a truck, bearing registration number HR37-A9769, and Jagdish Singh was with him in the truck. The secret informer further informed that another truck bearing registration number PB11-BA-8738 was being driven by Tarsem Singh, while Gurmail Singh and Jagjit Singh were travelling with him in the truck.
 
 The secret informer further informed that trucks were loaded with pesticide and onion, but heavy quantity of poppy husk was also being transported in vehicles. Further, the trucks were coming from Machhike village in Moga district to village Bhamipur Kalan via village Burj Kalan, Hathur. Police later arrested Avtar Singh, Gurmail Singh, Jagdish Singh, and Tarseem Singh, after 360kg of poppy husk was recovered from two vehicles, and produced a challan against the accused persons in a court of law. Later, accused Jagmeet Singh and Chamkaur Singh were added as additional accused after investigation.
 
 During the trial of the case, the accused denied all allegations against them and pleaded false implication. The additional public prosecutor pleaded for punishment to the accused on the basis of statements of prosecution witness, and chemical examination report of the recovered consignment.
 
 The defence counsel argued that the prosecution case was bereft of an independent corroboration. He further contended that there was absolutely no evidence against Jagmeet Singh and Chamkaur Singh to prove the charge under Section 25 of the NDPS Act. The defence counsel also contended there was absolutely no evidence against the accused Gurmail Singh and Jagdish Singh, as they were merely sitting in the cabin of the truck, and had absolutely no inkling that poppy husk was lying in the truck’s body.
 
 The court, citing a Supreme Court judgement, said there was no absolute rule that police officers could not be cited as witnesses, and their depositions be treated with suspicion. It observed that merely on account of non-joining of an independent witness, no adverse inference can be drawn against the prosecution case. The court also cited the Supreme Court judgment, whereby it has held that if a huge quantity of 33 bags of poppy husk was recovered from the possession of the accused, and police officials had no previous enmity with the accused, it was not probable that such a huge quantity had been arranged by police officials in order to falsely implicate the accused.
 
 However, acquitting the other two accused — Jagmeet Singh and Chamkaur Singh — the court observed that merely because of the ownership of vehicles, it could not be presumed that they intentionally, purposely, and knowingly allowed the other accused to use the trucks for transporting the contraband.
 
 
