PANAJI: Chief minister Manohar   on Monday directed Goa police and directorate of transport not to entertain calls from influential persons, who deter them from issuing a challan in case of a traffic violation. He was reacting to transport director Nikhil Desai’s statement that they receive calls not to challan traffic violators. 

 Parrikar said there is a 4% fall in accidents in January 2018 as compared to January 2017. He said there is a 20% decrease in fatal accidents this January compared to last January. In 2017, 328 people died in road accidents in the state, while 300 people were maimed. 
 
 Self-accidents are one-third of the total accidents, he said.
 
 Speaking at a road safety week function, Parrikar said, “There is no need to entertain any ‘contacts’. Don’t take calls and don’t go by influence. Shutdown your cellphone while performing duties. Don’t take a defaulter’s mobile in your hands and the issue is over.”
 
 The chief minister said, I don’t think any politician calls the RTO or Goa police not to issue a challan. “If a politician tells you not to issue a challan then answer the call politely and issue a challan to the traffic violator politely,” he said. 
 
 Parrikar said lakhs of people have to suffer as they have lost their near and dear ones or have got maimed in road accidents. 
 
 He said road safety should be throughout the year and not restricted to a week.
 
 Referring to the theme, ‘Driving faster can cause disaster’, Parrikar said the theme should have been safe driving. He adviced school children not to drive or ride on roads.
 
 Parrikar said it should be a bar owner’s responsibility to ensure that the person whom he serves liquor does not drive or ride. “This will not be a circular, but we will monitor it,” he said.
 
 Transport minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’   said the amendment to Motor Vehicle Act will increase fines for traffic violators. 
 
 He said after the amendment is passed, one will have to pay Rs 1,000 for not wearing an helmet and entering a no entry lane, Rs 5,000 for drunk driving and minors involved in fatal accidents without licence would land in jail and the violators’ parents would also be punished.
 
 
