MYSURU: It was in   that chief minister   faced what he has described as the toughest electoral battle in a political career that has spanned four decades. It was from this constituency that he contested the 2006 bypoll, after he left the JD(S). In a high-octane election where then CM HD Kumaraswamy and deputy CM BS Yeddyurappa campaigned against him, Siddaramaiah emerged victorious.

 Siddaramaiah subsequently chose to fight the assembly elections in neighbouring Varuna constituency in 2008 and ‘13. However, stating that the 2018 assembly elections would be his last, the CM returned to the constituency where he made his bones as a statesman. With polling having concluded for the 2018 assembly elections, Siddaramaiah exuded confidence of winning the Chamundeshwari seat by a big margin. However, the high voter turnout – Chamundeshwari registered a voter turnout of 76.05% on Saturday – and consolidation of certain groups of voters has led to speculation within the segment that a close contest could be on the cards.
 
 Although Siddaramaiah admitted that the JD(S) candidate  , who is also the incumbent MLA for Chamundeshwari, was likely to give him a tough fight, the CM has alleged that the latter is using money to win the seat. “He has spent money. But I don’t know where he has managed to get the funds. But, one cannot win elections merely by spending money. Nobody can. We need people’s love,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 The CM, however, said that he might not be able to secure the lead he had hoped for in Chamundeshwari. “I think that the margin of victory in Badami constituency in Bagalkot district will be higher than in Chamundeshwari,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 In the December 2006 bypoll, Chamundeshwari had registered a voter turnout of 66.3%. Interestingly, Siddaramaiah, contesting on a   ticket, polled 1,15,512 votes in the bypoll, which is the most secured by any candidate in Chamundeshwari. Although he accounted for 47.24% of the votes cast, the difference between him and the JD(S) candidate was less than 0.1%, and the margin of victory a paltry 257 votes, which, oddly enough, is the smallest margin of victory in the history of Chamundeshwari.
 
 The wafer-thin margin that he secured in the 2006 bypoll was only set in relief by the thumping victory he had managed in 2004, when he had romped to victory in Chamundeshwari by a margin of 32,345 votes as a JD(S) candidate.
 
 A glance at the voting pattern in Chamundeshwari since 2004 points to a trend of decreasing margins for the winner. While the winner in 2004 polled 15.49% more votes than the runner-up, it was 0.1% in the ‘06 bypoll. In the 2008 elections, the winner polled 9.53% more, while it reduced further to 4.01% in ’13. In 2013, the JD(S) candidate GT Devegowda managed to wrest control of what had historically been the party’s stronghold from the Congress.
 
 In the past five years, JD(S) has only managed to strengthen its hold in the segment, where it has bagged six of the eight zilla panchayat seats and 20 of the 30 taluk panchayat seats.
 
 Sources in Siddaramaiah’s camp said that they were confident of a win, with the support of Ahinda (Kannada acronym for Dalits, Other Backward Classes and minorities). Apprehensions of the Dalit and ST votes being divided notwithstanding, Siddaramaiah’s aides believe that it would not have a huge impact. “While many senior Vokkaliga leaders have campaigned for the JD(S), we have received support in Vokkaliga pockets such as Jayapura Hobli. However, since majority of the Vokkaligas would have voted for the JD(S), the results could go down to the wire,” a source said. 
 
 Devegowda, on the other hand, told TOI, “I am happy with the support I have received from people of all communities. It will ensure my victory by an impressive margin.”
 
 Sources in the JD(S) are expecting Devegowda to win with a margin of 25,000 votes. “Dalits, STs, Lingayats have supported the party, besides our traditional voter base among the Vokkaligas. Except Kurubas, all the major communities have supported the JD(S). This is a massive consolidation against Siddaramaiah,” a JD(S) source said.
 
 Murmurs of the BJP having tacitly supported the JD(S) in Chamundeshwari too are doing the rounds.
 
 
