BENGALURU: Chief Minister   on Wednesday sought 15 days times to finalise the modalities of a  , even as 10 farmers have reportedly committed suicides between Sunday and Tuesday. Farmer leaders, while welcoming the loan waiver assurance, also argue that such waivers aren't anything more than temporary relief and that they will never solve the problems debt.

 
 Between April 1, 2016 and May 25, 2018, at least 2,222 farmers have committed suicide at the rate of three every day, of whom families of 1,570 have already received a compensation of Rs 5 lakh each, while 430 cases have been rejected saying the suicides were not related to farming-related issues.
 
 In the first two months of this financial year (April and May), more than 20 farmers have committed suicide, of which 11 have so far been entered into the official records of the agricultural department. "Since all our officials were deputed for election duty, we are yet to get the full numbers from the district for the two month. We will compile the complete list by next week," one official in-charge of handling farmer suicide cases told TOI.
 
 PERMANENT SOLUTIONS
 
 Farmer leader RS Basavaraj, from Ballari, says: "Taking care of our loans is certainly an immediate need. But for how many years can the government keep waiving loans. The solution is in reducing the input cost, and I advise that the government study models employed in countries like Japan and France. Our demand is that up to 50% of the cost of production must be subsidised."
 
 All-India   (AIKS) Joint Secretary Vijoo Krishnan, who led the massive protests in Maharashtra earlier this year, argued that with a large number of farmers borrowing from money lenders, which no loan waiver scheme recognises, governments must introduce policies that create a debt-free environment.
 
 "Loan waivers are like palliative care, at best, not a solution. While such temporary reliefs are needed to keep the farmers' families going until a more permanent solution is found. It is important to change the way this issue is viewed," he said, adding that governments must also look at debt relief commissions, which look into every case.
 
 While Maruti Manpade, a farmer leader from north  , argues that even as the government appears to be over ambitious-keeping in mind financial implications-it deserves the 15 days the chief minister has sought.
 
 "The government must begin implementation of Minimum Support Price (MSP), which we can calculate for as many as 21 produces. Besides, we must also look into the issue of cost of production," Manpade argues.
 
 HIGH CASUALITIES
 
 In the year ending March 31, 2018, maximum casualties have been reported from Mandya (88), Mysuru (86) and Hassan (68) while Belagavi also recorded 88 cases of farmer suicides. The situation was similar in the previous year too, when Hassan saw 97 cases, followed by 78 in Mysuru, 75 in Mandya and 60 in Belagavi.
 
 Sunanda Jayaram, a farmer's leader from the Mandya-Mysuru region had earlier told TOI: "The whole approach towards agriculture must change if the government wants to prevent farmers from dying. The way governments deal with our problems is the main reason for farmer suicides. Every strata of our society borrows money, but why is it that only farmers commit suicide?"
 
