BENGALURU:   candidate   had the last laugh on Thursday, as he was declared winner from   assembly constituency. Muniratna had been booked for electoral malpractices after thousands of voter ID cards were found in a flat in his constituency and polls were postponed from May 12 to May 28.

 Political analysts say the outcome was not unexpected, given the alliance that the Congress has forged with the JD(S) at the state level to form the government. “RR Nagar was on a roller-coaster ride right from the beginning,” said M B Adinarayana, a political tracker. “Muniratna was lucky as the dramatic developments at the state level gave him an advantage. In the end, arch-rival JD(S) only put up a friendly fight against him.”
 
 The Congress may have also benefited from politics playing out in JD(S) chief H D Deve Gowda’s family, sources say. Gowda’s grandson Prajwal Revanna wanted to be the party candidate from RR Nagar, but others including H D Kumaraswamy blocked it. The JD(S) finally ended up fielding G H Ramachandra, a   leader who had switched sides just before the elections. 
 
 “RR Nagar should be a JD(S) stronghold considering its large chunk of Vokkaliga votes,” said N K Mohanram, a political analyst. “But the party was relegated to third position because of the confusion among party workers and voters over the candidate. The decision to choose a BJP man as its candidate appears to have proven detrimental to the party.”
 
 Muniratna was also helped by divisions in the Gowda family. While Kumaraswamy is said to have been soft on Muniratna, who had cast his actor-son Nikhil Kumaraswamy in a meaty role in his upcoming magnum opus Kurukshetra, Deve Gowda was vehement in his opposition to the Congress candidate. In fact, Deve Gowda was the first to complain to the Election Commission of India against Muniratna late on May 9 when the voter identity cards were found. 
 
 When the Congress and JD(S) became allies at the state level, there was vociferous demand that the junior partner pull out its candidate to support Muniratna. Gowda though said the friendship was limited to the state assembly, and even held a road show seeking votes for Ramachandra. Kumaraswamy chose to stay away from the fray and described it as a ‘friendly fight’. 
 
 JD(S) leaders, who were not willing to be named, said if Gowda and Kumaraswamy had campaigned together the scene would have been very different. “It is the victory of the Congress-JD(S). We wanted this as our objective was to stop the communal BJP,” Kumaraswamy said.
 
 There are rumblings among JD(S) cadres that the party leadership ceded the fight and Gowda’s roadshow was only for public consumption. Senior leaders, however, denied the allegation.
 
 “It may be true that Kumaraswamy was soft on Muniratna, but he did not support him. Otherwise how could our candidate bag as many as 60,360 votes?” R Prakash, JD(S) Bengaluru city president, said.
 
 BJP candidate P M Muniraju Gowda said the JD(S) candidate caused a division of Vokkaliga votes. “In Vokkaliga-dominant pockets like Laggere and Kottigepura, the JD(S) polled more votes than us. It is clear that the JD(S) wanted to help the Congress by its presence,” he said. 
 
 
