BASIRHAT/  :If you’ve not been getting enough of your annual dose of nolen gur, blame it on this year’s winter, or the lack of it. With the weather playing spoilsport, the date palm output has been severely hit, affecting the production of the seasonal delicacy in the production hubs.

 
  in North 24-Parganas and Bankura say the colder it gets, the greater the quantity of juice that seeps from the stems of the date palm trees. If the weather is warm, like it has been for the last two months, less juice comes out, and whatever little comes out gets quickly fermented, resulting in poor quality gur.
 
 
 “Last year, I supplied 10 quintals of gur to Kolkata,” said Raisuddin Khan, a major producer based in Bankura. “This year, I couldn’t supply any during November. In December, so far, I managed to supply only 16 quintals, compared to 24 last year. There has been a 33% decline in production. This year, winter came late and it’s still not cold enough even now, during end-December,” he added.
 
 Gur from Basirhat,   and   in North 24-Parganas and Bankura’s Indpur, Taldangra, Khatra and   is always in high demand because of its flavour and taste. Farmers in these areas say that while this year’s rather warm winter has hit them especially hard, production has been declining over the last couple of years with a gradual decline in the number of skilled gurcollectors (siulis, as they are referred to locally). “Siulisare scarce in a number in villages in the gurproduction belt. The older siuliseither didn’t pass on their skills to their progeny or, more likely, their children never wanted imbibe their fathers’ skills. Very few younger people want to climb date palm trees at 3am on a winter morning to painstakingly extract the sap from trees. Learning the art of extraction, itself a very refined job, is not their cup of tea,” said Taki’s Ramen Mondol, who owns 250 date palm trees.
 
 “There is a high demand for quality nolen gur,” said  , a supplier in the gurtrade. “But the gurproduced so far this year is of inferior quality. The Kolkata-based sweet shop owners I supply to are not satisfied with the quality or quantity ofgurthey are getting.”
 
