Two big ticket events --   matches moving out of   and Prime Minister   ending up helihopping to two function venues in Chennai – have brought bad publicity for the Tamil Nadu police.

 Barely 48 hours ago, the Chennai police earned encomiums for having handled well the anti-IPL protests in the city. What could have spiralled into a fullfledged confrontation between the highly charged agitators and the police on Tuesday, was contained well mainly due to deft handling of the situation. There were skirmishes and ugly scenes when a couple of policemen, and hapless   fans were chased and manhandled. But, the build-up before the event promised much worse than what was finally witnessed.
 
 While one thought it was Chennai police’s time to bask in the glory, cricket administrators were called and informed that it would not be possible to provide security at similar scale – involving about 5,000 cops including those in riot fatigues – for the remaining six matches featuring CSK. After police threw their hands up in such manner, the other option of submitting different match dates was not a real option at all. The matches have now been shifted to Pune.
 
 A day later, on Thursday, the crowd-savvy Prime Minister could not hit the road in Chennai because police could not ensure him foolproof insulation from black flag-holding protesters belonging to the DMK, other parties and many fringe groups. Unlike his predecessor,   connects quite well with crowds, adulation and slogans. But Thursday was not to be his day.
 
 The events came hardly as a surprise. Ever since the Cauvery water issue took centrestage, and it became clear that the board would not be formed any time soon, it was announced by parties and activists that they would not allow IPL to be played in Chennai on April 10. Similarly, they kept reiterating that they would wave black flags at Modi, protesting the central delay in forming a water management board as per the   order.
 
 While the state government and its police top brass chose to play safe than feel sorry later, their overcautious and short-sighted approach has cost the state its image. Emboldened by twin hits in quick succession, fringe groups are bound to come up with demands tougher than ever – Tamil Nadu is not short of contentious issues.
 
