CHENNAI: Nearly one in every four fatalities caused by MTCbusesin thecity is a pedestrian, shows a recent study by   and UL, a global safety science company.

 
  
 Also, nearly 70% of the deaths occurred when the victims were either on the left side of the road in the space earmarked for them or crossing the road, says the study on safety of public   in south India.
 
 Fatal crash records involving buses of six major state-owned transport corporations between 2010 and 2017 were taken up for the study.
 
  buses accounted for the most crashes — 3.22 fatalities for every 10 million km operated between April 2015 and March 2016. In contrast, Mumbai’s   (BEST) with a bigger fleet reported only 1.24fatalities per 10 million km in the same period.
 
 A deeper look into the data shows that nearly 25 % of all deaths caused by MTC buses involve pedestrians. BEST tops the list with 45 % of deaths being pedestrians.
 
 Following this, a special training was conducted for BEST drivers by the two firms and the accident figures came down, claims the report.
 
 Besides pedestrians, 42% of accidents involving MTC buses involved motorcycles and nearly 75% of two-wheeler drivers hit against such buses.
 
 As a first step towards reducing the accident rate, the firms proposed a solution which was adopted by Bengaluru’s BMTC on a pilot basis. Standard-sized mirrors were installed on 58 buses across four depots in October 2016 and zero fatal crashes were reported since the installation.
 
 These mirrors increase visibility up to 102% on the passenger side (LHS) of the bus and 11% on the driver side (RHS) of the bus.
 
 “It is high time MTC adopted similar changes as thecorporation on an average loses up to ₹37 crore a year due to fatal crashes,” said an expert who advised the state transport department on policy decisions. This loss included compensation to accident victims, vehicle damage and loss of working hours.
 
 Suggesting something on the same lines, the   report said an investment in safety, in addition to reducing crashes, could help cut down financial losses to a large extent.
 
