Nagpur: An allocation of a pathetic Rs40 crore for combating climate change in the “fourth most carbon-dioxide emitting country” came as a shock for environmentalists. Amid major let-downs in the environment arena, the big boost to bamboo mission was the only silver lining in this year’s Union Budget. Air pollution did find a mention in the Budget with finance minister Arun Jaitley announcing a special scheme to tackle the issue of stubble burning in northern states neighbouring New Delhi. While this showed some hope, environmentalists feel the mention should have been more comprehensive. “Not announcing budgetary allocations for the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which the government had committed itself last year in the Parliament, was a big disappointment,” said Sunil Dahiya, clean air campaigner at Greenpeace India. Pointing out that funds under pollution abatement field have been reduced to Rs20 crore from last year’s Rs21.20 crore, Dahiya added, “At a time when air pollution has been declared as a national crisis by the government, the allocation should have been increased manifold. The problem of pollution is not just restricted to Delhi-NCR but the entire country. The Budget focuses only on one component of pollution and fails to provide a comprehensive plan.” Stating that the Budget does not look promising on the environmental front, founder of Green Vigil Kaustav Chatterjee said: “The Budget is not in line with the Paris agreement that our country ratified. If Rs173 crore can be shelled out for national river conservation programme, why such paltry funds for air pollution and climate change which is a big concern for public health?” Much to the disappointment of wildlife buffs, the allocation for ‘Project Tiger’ was limited to Rs350 crore for providing financial assistance to 50 tiger reserves. Calling this unrealistic, president of Satpuda Foundation Kishor Rithe said, “The amount is too less for 50 reserves. Clearly, tiger conservation is not a priority for this government.” On the positive side, the allocation of Rs1,290 crore for development of bamboo production sector was a welcome move. “It is a good step but will be fruitful if accompanied by other measures like providing a market for bamboo, especially in the ecotourism sector. Right now, it is an upcoming industry and there is not much awareness about various uses of bamboo,” said Sunil Joshi, founder of Institute of Village Enterprise Development for Handicraft Artisans (VEDHA). He added that to ensure success of the bamboo mission, involvement of non-official experts is a must.