JAIPUR: Prime Minister   is scheduled to visit   on March 8 for pan-India expansion of ‘Beti Bachao Beti Padhao' ( ) scheme and National Nutrition Mission (NNM).

 A high-level meeting was held here at the state secretariat to take stock of the preparations. The meeting was chaired by chief secretary N C Goel and Rakesh Srivastva, sectary to Union ministry of women and child development.
 
 “The Prime Minister will come to Jhunjhunu on March 8 to announce the expansion of ' ' (BBBP) scheme, which is currently in effect in 161 districts. Similarly, National Nutrition Mission scheme will also be launched,” Srivastava said.
 
 March 8 is also celebrated across the world as International Women’s Day, a statement released by the government stated that the prime minster is also expected to take part in “Nari Shakti Programme” in the Jhunjhunu district itself on the same day.
 
 Department of women and child development ( ) is organising the PM's visit. The place of the event has been finalised near Jhunjhunu airstrip. In Jhunjhunu, the child sex ratio (CSR) was 837, which was lowest in the state, as per Census 2011. After that, the district has made a significant progress in sex ratio at birth. From April 2015 to March 2016, the sex ratio at birth in Jhunjhunu was 903. Thereafter, it increased to 944 during April 2016 to December 2016.
 
 Jhunjhunu is one of the 14 districts of the state which are covered under Centre's Beti Bacho Beti Padhao. Nationally, 161 districts are covered under BBBP.
 
 According to the officials in Jhunjhunu, various awareness initiatives were taken like planting samplings on birth of girl child, sending greetings to parents on birth of girl child, oath taking ceremonies were organised in schools, in government offices awareness was spread on the importance of girl child. Moreover, a brand ambassador for BBBP has also been roped in.
 
 In the state, BBBP is implemented in 14 districts including Alwar, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dausa, Jhunjhunu, Sikar, Jaipur, Karauli, Sawai Madhopur, Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Tonk, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur. Under BBBP, the WCD organised 'Beti janmotsavs' at district, block and gram panchayat levels. The other initiatives taken under BBBP include, eighth vow (athwan phera) in mass marriage to refrain from sex selection in Sriganganagar, Bharatpur and Dausa districts.
 
 
