Before the advent of plastic bags, people mostly used cloth bags which were called ‘Manjapai’ —named after their yellow colour. Interestingly, the bags were yellow because they were dipped in turmeric that was used as a disinfectant. Durable and reusable, these bags primarily made in   and Erode, however, lost their significance after plastic bags came into the picture. In a welcome change, the recent years have witnessed a revival of these cloth bags, thanks to increased environmental awareness on plastic menace. Spearheading on such initiative is a Madurai-based couple who are promoting cloth bags under their brand ‘The Yellow Bag’. 

 The couple Gowri and N S Krishnan, after working in the IT industry in Bengaluru and Chennai, decided to return to Madurai, especially after their daughter started suffering breathing- related problems due to pollution. "We started becoming more sensitive towards the environment and my wife came up with the idea of making cloth bags. Thus, was born ‘The Yellow Bag’,"   says. 
 
 They have a centralised unit for cutting and printing bags while the stitching part is partly outsourced and partly in-house. Apart from the usual bags, the unit produces trendy cloth bags for a range of customers including industrial firms. "There are still people who seek only cloth bags and we receive orders for auspicious occasions like weddings. Cloth bags are seeing a revival in demand," he says. 
 
 Over the years, the naturally dyed cloth bags had lost out to chemical dyeing. Two decades ago, these ‘manjapais’ were used as packets for wedding gifts and in textiles and jewellery shops. However, plastic bags, by their sheer mass production and cost effectiveness, almost made these yellow bags extinct. 
 
 Things have changed today. Krishnan says now there is a good demand for these bags in states like Kerala, Karnataka and Maharashtra where plastic bags of all microns and unwoven fabric is banned. "Unwoven fabric is considered for its reusable quality. But they are not biodegradable. They only disintegrate into particles but don’t decompose," he points out. 
 
 Nonetheless, this unwoven fabric is playing a significant role in rejuvenating the cloth bag industry, says K G Ganesh Babu, who has been into cloth bag making for a long time. "It went through a sluggish phase, but the industry is gaining momentum after unwoven fabric came into existence." 
 
 The unwoven fabric comes in different colours and models. People discard it after use while cloth bags are durable and reusable. "I would say both cloth bag and ones made of unwoven fabric are becoming popular now. They are mostly made in family-owned and family-operated smaller units because it gives them a decent remuneration besides giving an entrepreneurial satisfaction," Babu says.
 
 
