HYDERABAD: For their business plan of developing a fully edible popsicle-holder that prevents dripping, a group of seven budding entrepreneurs-- all from different schools in the city have bagged the first position at the fifth edition of the TiE (The indus Entrepreneurs) - Young Entrepreneurs Business Plan Competition, the results of which were announced at an event held in the city on Saturday. 

 The competition was attended by more than 43 students from 20 different schools in the state. The winning team 'Pop and Lick' comprised   from Chirec International School, Sohini Kasu from Oakridge International School, Sreeja Muppidi from Chirec International School, Abheek Dendukuri from Sadhu Vaswani International School, Mukund T Dittakavi from Bhavans School, Vaishnavi Simran Palreddy from SilverOaks School and   from  .
 
 While the business plan for an eco-friendly, fully edible popsicle-holder won the first place, the idea for a unique nutrition bar for pregnant women was adjudged the second best business plan.
 
 
 Speaking about the product, students from the winning team said "Being children, we decided to look for solutions to problems we face. Although children like eating them, popsicles end up spoiling clothes due to constant dripping. This prompted us to think of an a way to arrest the dripping and we came up with the idea for an eco-friendly popsicle-holder that is fully-edible itself."
 
 The winning team will now fly to the International TiE Finals to be held in the US later this year, announced IT secretary Jayesh   while giving away the awards, at a ceremony held on Saturday. "This platform must be taken to schools in the rural areas as well to foster entrepreneurial spirit among children there," said Ranjan, while speaking at the award ceremony.
 
 All students that participated underwent a training on entrepreneurship development with classroom sessions and mentoring, before working on their respective business plans.
 
  Prasad Gadiraju, president, TiE, Hyderabad chapter said :"We are amazed at the capabilities of these young kids. With structured training, they can start their entrepreneurial journey and I am sure they will be quite successful."
 
 
