KOLKATA: Dudu   returned to Kolkata on Sunday to resume his second stint at  , hoping he would be able to provide the red-and-golds side the necessary cutting edge in winning the elusive  . 

 
 Dudu will replace Brazilian Charles de Souza in East Bengal side and is expected to play his first match in the I-League's return derby against  , which his side will host at the   Stadium next Sunday. 
 
 "East Bengal have quality players in the side. I strongly believe that we have a great chance to win the I-League this season," Dudu said soon after landing in the city.
 
 Even though the club officials decided to bring back Dudu, there's some doubt about his fitness. The striker, however, brushed aside such fear, insisting that he's raring to go in East Bengal jersey again.
 
 "I am thankful to East Bengal officials for allowing to play for this club again. I am fully fit and looking forward to make the supporters happy with my performance," he added.
 
 The Nigerian striker had played for East Bengal in the 2014-2015 season before switching allegiance to Mohun Bagan the following season.
 
 Dudu's short association with Mohun Bagan was best remembered for his red-card in the   derby on September 6 in 2015, which East Bengal went on to win 4-0 on way to claiming the local league. Dudu now doesn't want to dwell on the past and is eyeing a fresh start.
 
 "I don't want to remember what has happened in the past. I want to make a new start at East Bengal," he maintained.
 
 Dudu is set to be signed up for East Bengal once the second transfer window opens on January 15. Dudu's return to the red-and-golds side has been made possible when the club officials decided to release Charles after the Brazilian failed to live up to expectations.
 
 Trinidadian international Willis Plaza and Ivory Coats's defensive midfielder   are also under East Bengal scanner. However, with Dudu now set to replace Charles, it remains to be seen if the club officials are intent on ringing in more changes in the side.
 
