Nagpur: City MP and Union minister for road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari is expecting a budgetary provision to start a lifeline project along the national highways. Gadkari’s office claims with the project, 80% of accidental deaths on highways can be prevented. 

 The project will cost Rs1 lakh crore in which government stake will be 50% while remaining will be arranged through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds from private players.
 
 Gadkari’s adviser Dr Viral Kamdar told TOI, “Every year about one lakh deaths occur on national highways. Of them, 80% are avoidable if the patient receives timely medical care.”
 
 As per the plan, an ambulance will be available at every 37km, one primary care centre (Level3) at every 40km, specialized centre (level 2) at every 120km, besides 750 super-speciality centres (Level 1). “Apart from trauma care to accident victims, the hospitals will also cater to areas adjoining the highways and help to reduce the infant mortality rate and maternal mortality rate,” said Kamdar. 
 
 The city has high expectations regarding cancer care and medicines. Shailesh Joglekar, secretary of Dr Aabaji Thatte Seva Aur Anusandhan Sanstha which is developing National Cancer Institute (NCI), said that cancer drugs should be exempted from Goods and Services Tax (GST).
 
 During the VAT regime, cancer drugs and equipment were tax-free in the state. “Now, there is 5% GST on some medicines while on others it is 12%, including life saving drugs. There should be some relief on import duty. The cancer diagnostic equipment are already too costly, and the heavy import duty makes it even worse,” said Joglekar.
 
 Private hospitals expect ‘priority industry’ status to the private   sector to reduce the per bed cost. Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) secretary Dr Anup Marar said, “Private health sector of the country serves 80% of population which includes poor and needy who are forced to approach private hospitals since government hospitals are not up the mark. Also, budgetary provision for the health care sector, which could strengthen the government hospitals, is shrinking every year.”
 
 Marar said, “The cost of taxes and high duties is unfortunately being transferred to patients and the private health care sector is being blamed for this.”
 
 Resident Doctors from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) feel that while there is a regular flow of infrastructure funds, the hospital lacks basic drugs which patients are compelled to buy from outside. A resident doctor said, “GMCH performs over 100 blood transfusions each day but patients are made to buy the transfusion kit from private pharmacies.” According to Maharashtra Association of Resident Doctors (MARD) of GMCH, resident doctors haven’t got the daily allowance from the last one-and-a-half year. A doctor said, “The government owes Rs13,000 to each resident doctor of state GMCs.”
 
 Expectations
 
 * Instead of infrastructure funds, resident doctors expect Rs1.5 crore particularly for medicines
 
 * GST exemption on medicine and equipment related to cancer and kidney diseases 
 
 * Private health care sector be given priority industry set-up in order to receive tax relief. Ultimately, this will bring down the cost per bed
 
 
