KANNUR: The adamant stand taken by Karnataka authorities regarding the ownership of forest area at Koottupuzha (bordering both the states) in the district has cast a shadow on the prospects of   ( ) road between Thalassery and Valavupara, connecting Kerala and Karnataka. 

 Officials of Karnataka forest department - who raised an objection to the construction of the bridge as part of the project by claiming ownership of half the river and some part of the land - did a fresh survey of the area and erected a new survey stone on March 27 to ascertain their claim over the land. Though a revenue team from the district visited the place on Wednesday, there is a complaint among residents in the area that authorities have not taken the issue seriously, which might affect the future of an interstate road.
 
 Though the work of the road is progressing and almost 80% work is over, there is concern that the work would prove futile if the bridge is not built. For that, the state government has to solve the logjam, said KSTP officials.
 
 "We are all set to meet the deadline of KSTP road, and also the work of the other major bridge across   has started after resolving certain technical glitches. In order to complete the entire work, the boundary issue at Koottupuzha has to be resolved, and our hope is that there will be an amicable solution in this issue," said a senior official with KSTP.
 
 At the same time, state government has taken up the issue at a higher level. The chief secretary has written a letter in this connection to Karnataka's chief secretary, said district collector  . "Once we get a date from their side, we will conduct a joint inspection to solve the issue, and then we are hopeful of starting the work of the bridge," he said.
 
 According to officials here, when the district collector had met the Karnataka forest officials earlier, they had said that the bridge is being constructed by encroaching nearly 300m of their land, which is part of   wildlife sanctuary. Though the officials here said such a claim is baseless and they have records to prove the river is part of Kerala and the original survey stones have proved this, Karnataka is adamant. They did the sided survey based on a document signed in 1908, as per which Koottupuzha river is the border of Kerala and Karnataka.
 
 
