Amritsar: Despite the government’s instructions to families not to open the coffins which arrived from Iraq on Monday, a woman from Bholewal village in Nawanshahr, Gurpinder Kaur, opened the casket of her brother, Manjinder Singh, only to find his bones and a black bag containing his hair, kada, and clothes.

 She was not the only one overcome by grief. A man from Bohani village near Phagwara, Nirmal Singh, declared he would open the casket in which the remains of his son, Sukhwinder Singh, arrived. There were more such families which defied or were willing to defy the instructions. 
 
 TOI has photographs of the open coffins, but is not publishing them due to respect for the dead men. On his arrival at Amritsar airport in the afternoon, minister of state for external affairs Gen V K Singh (retd) said they had advised families against opening the coffins because the chemicals used on the mortal remains could be harmful if exposed to the eyes. 
 
 However, Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu said it was up to the relatives to do what they wanted to. “The administration’s responsibility is to transport the mortal remains to the native places of the dead,” he said. 
 
 As soon as she received her brother’s remains, Guprinder rushed to her village for the cremation. She along with other relatives burst into tears as they opened the   to find the bones of Manjinder. By Monday evening, two bodies had been cremated at Amritsar’s Sri Durgiana Committee cremation ground. However, the relatives of deceased didn’t allow media to take pictures of the last rites being performed.
 
 Langar arrangements were made outside the Amritsar Flying Club for the relatives of the victims.
 
 Earlier, it was an agonising wait for the relatives of the 39 Indians killed by IS in Iraq, as they started converging outside the Amritsar Flying Club as early as 10am on Monday. A woman from Chawinda Devi in Amritsar, Seema (30), waited for the body of her husband, Sonu, along with the couple’s sons Karan (9) and Arjun (11). “They have faint memories of their father; they don’t know why they are here,” a tearful Seema told TOI.
 
 Mortal remains of 38 of 39 Indians killed by the Islamic State (IS) in Iraq in June 2014, arrived in Amritsar on Monday. Gen Singh brought the bodies in a special aircraft which landed at the Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ram Das International Airport around 2.30pm, an hour behind schedule.
 
 
