THANE: Angry over her sleep being disturbed, a trustee of a high school locked up 50 students in a room and thrashed them with a  , landing 18 children in hospital, three of them with  .

 The incident happened in   on Wednesday evening when students of classes V to X were shifting benches in a second floor classroom after school hours for a dance practice ahead of an annual event. The trustee, Shilpa Gautam, who resides on the first floor, allegedly got angry as the shifting of benches on the floor above disturbed her sleep.
  
  
 “We were trying to create space in the middle of the room. We were lined up and taken to the trustee’s room, where she started hitting us with a fibre rod in front of 13 teachers,” said a girl.
 
 “She held a boy by hair and hit his head on a desk. Another boy who went had spine surgery a few years ago was hit on his back,” another student said.
 
 The students went to Thane Nagar police station on Wednesday night, but were asked to wait for a day as Shilpa’s husband, Ashish Gautam, had assured cops that he would apologise to the students.
 
 “While my 14-year-old son escaped with slight injuries to leg, my 13-year-old daughter has been admitted to hospital. When we approached police, they said the trustee was very sorry about his wife’s action and was willing to apologise to us. But on Thursday, we only heard more abuses and threats,” said a parent. After the students underwent medical tests and gave statements, police started registering an FIR.
 
 “The noise disturbed and angered the trustee who was not keeping well and asleep... We are registering a case under IPC section 324 (causing hurt with a dangerous weapon,” said M Dharmadhikari, senior inspector at Thane Nagar Police station. If convicted for the charge, a person faces up to three years in jail.
 
 A medical officer at Thane civil hospital said, “We treated five boys and 13 girls. Fifteen of them suffered injuries to bones and muscle, which caused swelling. Three others have suffered wrist fractures and have been advised to stay in hospital at night for observation.”
 
 The school authorities were unreachable for comment.
 
 
