AGRA: An   police official of the rank of deputy superintendent of police in   district has been booked for allegedly confining a woman, threatening and molesting her for over a month.
 
   , a provincial police services (PPS) officer of 2008 batch who was posted as the circle officer for Kasganj city, has now been transferred to recruitment board, Lucknow, on the orders of DGP O P Singh.
  
  The 28-year-old woman, a resident of Larchowk in   district, had filed an FIR against the officer, alleging that the official had confined her at his residence for over a month, tortured her mentally and physically, molested her and even attempted to set her on fire.
  
  According to the woman, she had met Ajay in 2017 when he was posted in Deoria as circle officer and was probing a dowry harassment case she had filed. The two became close and the CO allegedly brought her to Kasganj. On Friday, the victim was taken for medical examination.
  
  The matter came to light on April 17, when a local woman reporter posted an image of the injured woman in the official WhatsApp group of Kasganj police’s media cell and sought action. However, the WhatsApp group was suspended permanently.
  
  Later on May 2, the woman again sent a self-shot video of her complaint to local journalists when the official was out of the city, following which Kasganj police rescued the woman from the CO’s residence.
  
  Deputy inspector general of police (Kasganj)   said, “The woman has brought serious charges against the officer and based on her written complaint, we have booked   Ajay Kumar Singh under IPC’s sections 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation).”
  
  “On DGP’s orders, the accused officer has been relieved from duty as CO of Kasganj city and transferred to recruitment board in Lucknow,” he added.
  
  According to sources, the woman climbed on the top of the district hospital’s building while she was being taken for medical examination on Friday morning and threatened to commit suicide as she came to know that accused officer has left Kasganj for the state capital. She was brought down to safety after police intervened.
