 : On Tuesday, a group of intrepid adventure sports enthusiasts got together for some deep sea and scuba diving off the coast of Puducherry. Ten participants from different parts of India went through the paces and a handful of them experienced the thrill of their first deep sea dive. So what’s new you may ask? They are all wheelchair-bound, with severe spinal cord or amputation injuries.

 In a first of its kind event anywhere in India, Adventures Beyond Barriers Foundation, a Pune-based non-profit, in association with   and with Puducherry based   acting as scuba partners, has organised Dive For Joy, an open water scuba diving event for persons with disability. The event started on January 22 and will end on January 24.
 
 The participants include paraplegics, quadriplegics and amputees from across the country. Prior knowledge of diving and swimming is not mandatory, and all participants are guided by fully certified trainers in a ratio of two instructors to every diver. Some of the participants were entering the water after 15 years, while it was the first time for others.
 
 Among the first to experience the adrenaline rush of a deep sea dive was 25-year-old Ajeya Raj from Jharkhand who currently handles the catering services at the Chandigarh Spinal Rehab. A tetraplegic, this was his first experience of diving. “I never imagined in my wildest dreams that I would get to scuba dive after being wheelchair-bound following my accident,’’ he said. “Just yesterday, I saw the ocean for the first time in my life, and now I am going under water to see what lies underneath the ocean. I have never been more excited!”
 
 Ajeya Raj was joined by 24-year-old Prasanna from Hyderabad, a below-the-knee amputee. A photographer and cinematographer, he called his dive “an amazing experience’’.
 
 The   was conducted by well experienced and certified divers Aravind Tharunsri from Temple Adventures and Abheshek Baskeran from Bali Scuba along with other instructors from Temple Adventures.
 
 
 
