Over the years that actor-director   has been in the industry, he has been a part of commercial as well as independent cinema. For someone who has worked in Hindi as well as Marathi cinema, Mahadevan minces no words when he says that most of the biopics that have been made of late have been ‘cleansed’.

  “The biopics you are talking about are of celebrities and sportspersons. They are cleansed to exploit public sentiments. When you actually get into the lives of people, you are sure to find flaws and grey areas,” says Anant, who has recently finished a biopic on Dr Rukhmabai Raut, one of the first women medical practitioners of the country.
 
  Titled Doctor  , the film features   in the lead role and explores the life of this gutsy lady who did the impossible back then. Married off at the age of 11, Rukhmabai contested her husband’s claim to conjugal rights, which became an iconic case and subsequently led to the passage of the Age of Consent Act in 1891.
 
  Mahadevan shares that the biopic is a balanced account of her life. “I don’t want to make demi-gods out of my subjects, he says, adding, “There were certain grey areas in Rukhmabai’s life which too have been explored in the film.” While the film has been appreciated at various film festivals, it will get a theatrical release soon. “The distributors are of the opinion that it is an international film and will be releasing soon in a phased manner worldwide,” he says.
 
  This is Mahadevan’s third biopic after   and  : The Freedom File. Besides biopics, the actor-director also spoke about the status of Indian cinema during his recent visit to the   (FTII).
 
  Speaking about regional cinema gaining popularity over Bollywood, he says, “Regional cinema has much more relevant and interesting movies. It is not about catering formulaic films for the masses like Bollywood.”
 
  Mahadevan goes on to say that Bollywood makes the worst cinema in the world. “The films that we consider sending to the 
 
  Academy Awards are not half as good as what masters like Adoor Gopalakrishnan, Girish Kasaravalli or Mrinal Sen used to make. So, forget winning, getting a nomination is also a distant dream,” feels Anant. He says that we need to learn from Iranian cinema, which has registered its presence at the global level.
 
  For FTII students too, Mahadevan had a simple message- ‘It’s better to stick to your conviction and beliefs, than falling for some formula’. He says, “I did not hold any improvisation lessons or workshops for the students. Instead, I shared my experiences from the industry to help them prepare for the future. They have the opportunity to break the stranglehold of mediocre formulaic cinema that we are getting used to. I hope they make the most of this opportunity,” he concludes.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  “Tannishtha is an international face and she has an uncanny resemblance to Dr Rukhmabai. The movie is multilingual, so language was never really a barrier while casting the leading lady.”
 
 
 
 
 
  Mahadevan, who is essaying the role of a gay protagonist’s conservative father in a movie titled Evening Shadows, says, “Hindi cinema is not getting into the complexities of the characters. They are just turning LGBTQ characters into caricatures. This shows a general lack of maturity.
 
 
 
 
 
 
