Actor  , who was last seen in Kaaka Muttai and Kanchana 2, is back in Kollywood after a brief hiatus. This time, he will be acting with Jayam Ravi in the upcoming movie,  , directed by newcomer  . The actor, who flew down from the US to the city to shoot for the movie, talks to us about working in Tamil films, and how he is still in demand to do varied roles...

 
 
 Karthik and Jayam Ravi were very particular that I play the role. And this is my second film with Ravi. Earlier, I had worked with him in Aadhi Baghavan. He is a sweet youngster and a very nice person. I play a powerful character, someone whom the hero finds difficult to handle in the movie. The character has a bit of grey shade. 
 
 
 
 I consider myself lucky that I’m acting in Indian films. I’m happy that till date, people recall my characters and appreciate me. Even recently, when I was in Dubai, a person from Tamil Nadu came to me and told me how he remembers my role in Poovizhi Vasalile, even today.
 Poovizhi Vasalile was remade into five languages, including Hindi, and I played the same role in all. It’s a world record. I have worked with Rajinikanth, Kamal Haasan, Sathyaraj, Sarathkumar and Ajith, to name a few. Most of the movies that I have been part of were success. Then, all of the young filmmakers have seen my works and they connect with the movies. They remember me whenever they start doing a film and they want to cast me. That way I keep getting roles. Also, distance is not a constraint these days. They call me up, tell me about my character, and narrate the story, and if I find it good, I accept it. Sometimes, they also email me the story. It’s just a single day’s affair to travel for story narration or even shooting. It’s all about how you plan and handle things and also deal with the jet lag. But I’ve become choosy since I have been running my business — mixed martial academies in Houston, Dubai and Bahrain. I single-handedly manage the entire work and I need to do some balancing act to do films. But cinema is my passion, and I can never stay away from it.
 
 
 
 I haven’t done an action movie in the last decade and I feel sad about it. A lot of my fans, especially in Kerala, are waiting to see me as a hero in an action movie. I shall do that soon. I think filmmakers need to explore more in the action genre. In Malayalam, I have been doing many movies, but all of them are feel-good films, which are not enough to provide a wholesome big screen experience. When I say big screen experience for the audience, it doesn’t mean explosions and action. It has to be emotionally or visually charging. Narration should have an impact...even shallowness has a depth to talk about.
 
 
 
 I’m glad that I have never gotten caught in an image trap. I believe that an actor should be like water, free-flowing and extremely flexible. I have been really blessed that I was offered a variety of roles, even at the beginning of my career. And, I could do a variety of roles — villain, hero and some strong characters. Also, when it comes to negative roles, I am very particular about certain things. I never agree to do a character that molests a woman. I have been very conscious not to do such roles. I believe that even a villain should have character, which people can remember. 
 
 
 I’m currently working on a Hollywood project, Bullets Blades and Blood. The movie is co-directed by Robert Dennis Parham, a five-time World Kickboxing Champion. He was impressed by my body of work and that’s how I got a chance to work with him in the movie. The role will have scope for me to showcase my martial arts skills. If I want to do more Hollywood films, I should shift my family to Los Angeles, that’s where you go for auditions and be in the circuit. But we are settled in Houston and I think it’s good for the kids, for their education and upbringing. And, I’m actually bridging three countries now. My wife is a Russian-American.
 
 
 
 In Malayalam, I’m doing a movie with Nivin Pauly —  . I play Kayamkulam Kochunni’s guru,  , in it. It’s an interesting role. I am listening to a couple of scripts in Tamil and Telugu, but yet to sign them. I have been working in Tamil, Telugu, Kannada, Malayalam, Hindi and Sri Lankan language films. But I’m a little slow in signing up movies; I take one after the other.
 
