NEW DELHI: An   of Delhi assembly’s   has sought initiation of   against two   — the current registrar of cooperative societies, J B Singh, and his predecessor, Shurbir Singh. The committee was probing allegations of corruption in the Delhi Nagrik Sehkari Bank (DNSB) wherein a large number of illegal voters had elected the bank directors. DNSB is registered under the Delhi Cooperative Societies Act, 2003.

 The committee recommended that the chief secretary submit an action-taken report to the House within a month. It also suggested that privilege proceedings be initiated against the two senior bureaucrats for “multiple acts of contempt of privilege of the House commitee”.
 
 The report was adopted by the Assembly after discussions
 
 In a section on “Findings and Conclusions”, the committee, chaired by Greater Kailash MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj, stated: “There is enough material on record to conclude that several officers of the department of registrar of cooperative society, including the then secretary-cum-registrar Shurbir Singh, and the current RCS J B Singh, were acting in connivance with a group of ex-directors of the Delhi Nagrik Sehkari Bank with intention to conduct the elections of the bank with large number of illegal/irregular posts”. It is alleged that the two officers “delayed the proceedings against the group of ex-directors in cases of corruption and fraud with a mala fide intention to protect them”.
 
 The report added: “Prima facie, the elections of the managing committee of DNSB dated December 3, 2017, were conducted in violation of clause 3 of Schedule II of DCS. The chief secretary has been asked to initiate the process to get this examined and decided within a month. The decision on the legality of the election should be reported to the House within a period of six weeks (sic).”
 
 The report concluded that the deposition of Shurbir Singh and J B Singh “was a fabrication, full of contradictions and untruths. They tried to mislead the committee on many occasions”. The committee observed that “ignoring and abdicating the statutory duty to conduct free and fair elections can only be construed as lack of professional honesty and integrity on part of officials concerned”.
 
 It is emphasised in the conclusions that “nothing else but corruption can explain such connivance with the group of ex-directors who had been found guilty in many inspections and inquiries. There are many such inquiries and inspections that are still pending, but are being delayed for obvious reasons. This aspect needs to be thoroughly investigated.”
 
 
