The Supreme Court on Monday granted ad-interim pre-arrest   to Omprakash (Munna) Yadav, till the next hearing in a case of alleged assault. The bench of Justice J Chelameswar and Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul directed that “in the eventuality of the arrest of the petitioner before the next date of hearing, he shall be released on interim bail”. The order further added the interim bail will be “subject to the satisfaction of arresting authority and the petitioner shall continue to cooperate with the investigation.” 

 The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court had rejected the Munna Yadav’s anticipatory bail plea on April 6 while observing the rule of law should prevail in society. 
 
  and his family, including wife Lakshmi and sons — Karan and Arjun — were booked for attacking and seriously injuring Mangal Yadav, his sister Manju, brothers Papa and Gabbar Yadav, and others on October 21 over a dispute on bursting of firecrackers.
 
 On October 22, Navita Avdhesh Yadav had lodged an FIR at   against Munna and his kin, attracting offences of attempt to murder (IPC Section 307), Section 4/25 of the Arms Act, and Section 135 of Maharashtra Police Act. Munna has been absconding ever since.
 
 Initially, the police had booked the accused under Sections 324, 325, 147, 148 and 149 of IPC, besides 307, for attempt to murder, before dropping the last offence. The case was finally transferred to the crime branch. Charge sheet was submitted in the sessions court on March 1.
 
 Navita had also filed a petition against Yadav and his family praying for a CBI enquiry against him and other family members. She charged the police with shielding Yadav, a former   corporator from Ajni, due to his strong connections with the top BJP leadership. Yadav is known to be a close aide of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who appointed him chairman of Maharashtra State Construction Workers’ Welfare Board (MSCWWB).
 
 Opposing Yadav’s bail plea, the crime branch informed that from the spot of incident, hockey stick, stones and bamboo sticks were seized and statements of witnesses were recorded. During the course of investigation, a sword came to be seized from one of the accused Jaggu (Avdhesh Nanku Yadav), which was alleged to be used by Yadav in assaulting Satya Prakash.
 
 October 21 - Clash between families of Munna Yadav and Mangal Yadav
 
 October 22- FIR registered at Dhantoli Police Station
 
 March 1- Chargesheet filed
 
 March 7 - Anticipatory bail plea filed before sessions court
 
 March 15 - Sessions court rejects Yadav’s anticipatory bail plea
 
 April 6 -   rejects anticipatory bail
 
 April 23 - SC grants ad-interim pre-arrest bail
 
 
