GAYA: This 15-year-old girl from a  , with a knack for learning, took on her parents and a patriarchal society combined to scuttle concerted efforts to marry her off to a 19-year-old college student.

 Rajni (!5), a Class XI student and the eldest of five children of a marginal farmer-cum-daily wage filed a complaint petition with Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh on Wednesday and sought his help to stop her marriage. She has also attached a copy of her Aadhaar card with the complaint as proof of her being a minor.
 
 Narrating her ordeal in the petition, Rajni stated that her parents have fixed her wedding without her knowledge, let alone consent. “My father had paid Rs1 lakh as dowry to the groom’s father, who is a tailor in the village. My request to the prospective groom to turn down the offer also went in vain. When I refused, my parents resorted to cruelty. Besides being thrashed, I was denied food and stopped from going to school, ” wrote Rajni in her complaint.
 
 She had even threatened to commit suicide if she was forced to marry. On getting the complaint, the DM accompanied by Tekari SDO Manoj Kumar and Guraru BDO reached the village on Thursday. Besides giving a piece of his mind to the girl’s parents and counselling them, Singh also asked the local mukhiya to keep a vigil on child marriages, as it is a criminal offence.
 
 The parents in turn assured not to force their daughter to tie the nupital knot. They also promised the DM to give proper education to her as per their means. 
 
  court lawyer Ashok Kumar on the hand said that simple reprimand of parents was not enough. “By thrashing their daughter, depriving her of food, keeping her in illegal confinement and attempted child marriage, the parents should have been booked under relevant sections of the IPC, Child Marriage Prevention Act and Dowry Prohibition Act,” Kumar said.
 
 Asked why criminal case was not instituted against the cruel parents, the DM said, “Charges were not proved prima facie. Moreover, the marriage was at the initial stage of discussion only.”
 
 
