Panaji: The government-appointed task force, entrusted with preparing a conservation plan for St Cruz’ Bondvol lake, has suggested an interim freeze on developmental activities within 200m of the lake’s catchment area till the watershed range is suitably demarcated. In a recent report submitted to the high court of Bombay at Goa in connection with a public interest litigation (PIL) and a related writ petition, the task force concluded that the age-old water body is a wetland. Bondvol lake and its ecosystem with other water bodies is vital for irrigation, economic activities and ecological services and it should be treated as a watershed, the task force report stated. In this context, the task force recommended a no-development zone (NDZ) of 200m in the lake’s catchment area after examining permissions already granted.  The panel stated in its report that land conversion, building approvals and other permissions have been issued in the eco-sensitive zone of the century-old lake and suggested immediate action against violations within the NDZ and those without due approvals from requisite departments. The task force had been appointed after St Cruz resident, Arturo D’Souza filed the PIL. A writ petition by Calapor comunidade was also pending before the court over an ownership dispute. The lake, built during the Portuguese era, once irrigated vast areas of St Cruz village when agriculture was a dominant occupation. Taking note that storage of water for irrigation and recharge of wells in the village below were the dam’s main objectives, the panel recommended that the tradition of carrying out farming activities in the lake’s dry bed be restricted to its uplands, without use of chemicals. “The rights of such users, including rightful tenants, should not jeopardise the lake’s survival,” the report stated. The lake, which has a sluice valve mechanism and downstream linkages, including conduits for flow of water, had witnessed acts of sabotage about two years ago. “Immediate interventions are required to restore the sluice valve mechanism and other necessary structures, including water outlet to restore full functionality of the lake’s ecosystem,” the report stated.  It has been estimated that the lake can be restored in terms of functionality by December 2018. The panel suggested constitution of a lake management committee for more efficient management of the water body, which has an earthen dam of about 12.14m height over the deepest bed level and a submergence area of about 9.365ha. “The availability of such a magnitude of water body is in itself an ecological asset,” the report stated.