GURUGRAM: A day after   charged a 16-year-old boy for the   of a seven-year-old in a Gurugram school, claiming that it had collected enough evidence to prosecute the Class XI boy, the police, which initially conducted the probe, reiterated that it had not concluded its   when the central agency took over the case. The CBI gave a clean chit to Ashok Kumar, the school bus conductor, who had originally been arrested by the   for the murder.

 Police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said he had not gone through the chargesheet so far, and that “an investigative agency makes its opinion on the basis of the evidence they gathered, and is presented in the form of a chargesheet or the section 173(of CrPC) report.”
 
 Asked why senior police officers had come on record claiming that Ashok had murdered the boy, Khirwar said police would have had the final opinion, if it had been allowed to submit the chargesheet.
 
 Given a series of contradictions witnessed in police’s account and the chargesheet filed by CBI, sources said the central probe agency could soon file a supplementary chargesheet, name the police officers responsible for botching up the case and recommend action against them.
 
 Khirwar, when asked if the Gurugram police is conducting any internal inquiry, said there was no point in conducting a parallel probe since “the entire matter is with CBI”, and that an action would be taken on the basis of the recommendations made by the agency to the court. He also said it’s too early to question police probe.
 
 Asked how the findings of police and CBI are so different, the commissioner said what police projected as “findings” would not be quite right. “Any criminal investigation agency speaks through its chargesheet. Our process was very much in initial stages,” Khirwar said.
 
 The chargesheet filed by CBI has made claims that contradict the police probe. Besides exonerating Ashok, the prime accused according to police, the CBI also accused police of pressuring witnesses to give statements that fit their theory. Also, according to CBI, despite questioning the   it has apprehended for the murder, investigators did not bother to make him a person of interest, raising serious doubts about the police probe.
 
 CBI said Ashok had confessed to murdering the boy under “coercion and threat by police investigators”. The police’s sexual assault theory also fell flat after no semen could be detected on the boy’s underwear in the FSL report which ruled out sexual assault by the bus conductor.
 
 
 
