CHANDIGARH: Constituted by the Punjab government in 2012 to decide compensation claims for victims of large-scale violence witnessed after the brutal attack on Jalandhar-based Dera Sachkhand Ballan’s preacher   in Vienna (Austria) in May 2009,   commission has failed to submit its report in over five years.

 The state government officials claim that approximately Rs 5 crore have been spent on the commission till date.
 
 The commission has now not only requested the state government for another six months to complete the task but also for replacement of the staff. The commission also comprises retired district and sessions judge C R Goyal as assessor-cum-registrar of the commission.
 
 In March 2014, the state government had also conferred the powers on the commission to fix responsibility and recover compensation from the perpetrators of crime.
 
 The state government has now sought advocate general’s advice about the usefulness of the commission. A senior officer privy to the development told TOI, “Since the commission was constituted, a minimum of Rs 5 crore would have been spent on the commission, including the remuneration, traveling allowance and other expenses, salary of commission’s staff and its office, but till date the commission has not given a single report.”
 
 Meanwhile, when contacted, retired chief justice of the Kerala high court Justice V K Bali told TOI, “There is no time limit for this commission. It requires calling of evidence and hundreds of witnesses. That takes time. We have a staff of around 7-8 government employees including registrar, secretaries, assistants and peons. We will complete our task soon.”
 
 As of now there is no logic to continue with the commission, said the officer. He reasoned that those who had committed crime had been booked by the police and thereafter either convicted or found not guilty by the civil courts. Secondly, the commission was looking into the damage to properties but the state government had already come up with the Punjab Prevention of Damage to Public and Private Property Act, 2014. Under the Act, in every district a three-member committee has been constituted comprising the additional deputy commissioner, one officer each from the PWD and the police department. The committee is to estimate losses in their respective districts and the victims of this case can also approach the committee.
 
 Even the state government has recently received a representation from the management of Dera Sachkhand raising questions on the continuity of the commission. The home department has sent the case to the chief minister for seeking advocate general’s opinion on the issue. The additional chief secretary of home department N S Kalsi had held a meeting on the matter.
 
 On May 24, 2009, Sant Rama Nand, preacher of Guru Ravi Dass Gurdwara in Ballan village on the   highway was attacked in a Vienna gurdwara during a congregation. He had later succumbed to his injuries. After the news spread in Punjab, his followers on May 24 and 25 set around 170 vehicles and 18 bogies of the Madurai Express on fire in Jalandhar. Total damage was estimated to be around Rs 8 crore and 171 FIRs were registered for violence and property destruction in Jalandhar, Phagwara, Hoshairpur, Kapurthala, Ludhiana and Nawanshahr.
 
 
