MUMBAI: Not getting much help from cops, a 24-year-old woman took to Facebook to narrate how three men harassed women commuters in a first-class coach of a Harbour local train recently. Her post has gone viral with 1300 netizens sharing it and an almost equal number reacting to it. 

 Kavita   (name changed), a government employee, had boarded the 7.05 pm Panvel local from GTB Nagar station on December 28. She was glued to her cellphone when the train arrived at Kurla and there was much commotion in the coach. "I looked up and found three men standing at the entrance to the compartment. Women commuters were finding it difficult to enter or leave without brushing past them. Some of us asked the men to get off but they paid no heed," she told TOI. "The trio was whispering among themselves, making remarks about the women around them. An elderly woman then decided she had had enough and took on the men all by herself. She insisted they get off, but the men dared her to do what she could. One of them had earphones on. She unplugged them to make herself audible to him. The man flung the earphones at her and she promptly threw them out of the train," said Sharma. 
 
 By now, other passengers in the coach joined the elderly woman and insisted that the men get off. At   station, the trio got down. But at   station, they got back in. "This time, they hurled the filthiest of abuses and started looking for the elderly woman who confronted them. Unknown to them, she had already alighted at Chembur. We were relieved she wasn't still around in the coach, else they might have harmed her," said Sharma. 
 
 As the train started to move, the men got off one after the other but did not stop abusing. One of the passengers had taken a picture of the three which she shared with Sharma. "I announced I was getting off at   and would give the picture to the cops. But Vashi railway police told me I'd have to go to Wadala as the offence started in their jurisdiction. I requested them to at least make calls to their counterparts and step up patrolling at stations so men don't board the women's coach. But the cops said they could do nothing from the Vashi outpost," Sharma said. 
 
 "I uploaded the men's photo on Facebook and tweeted about the incident. But I didn't know the railway police's Twitter handle to tag them," she said.
 
 Senior inspector of Vashi GRP,  , said he'd look into the matter. "The on-duty staff should have recorded a non-cognizable offence and transferred it," he said. 
 
 
