AHMEDABAD: The recent appointments of 10 members to the Gujarat   were challenged before   high court on Tuesday.

 The  , a group that came forward two years ago opposing disposal of properties of Muslim religious trusts, has filed the petition and objected to the appointment of the members to the Wakf Board. The petitioner’s lawyer mentioned the petition before the bench headed by the chief justice and sought an early hearing. The bench is likely to hear the matter on Wednesday, sources said.
 
 The petitioner has claimed that the appointments made in the Wakf Board do not satisfy the requirements mentioned in the law. The notification for appointments is contrary to the rules and hence it should be quashed.
 
 The petitioner has contended that all 10 members in the board have been appointed by way of nominations. However, Section 14 of the Wakf Act provides for elections in certain categories – MP, MLA, Bar Council member and most importantly, the mutavallis (caretakers of the shrines and religious places which fall under the authority of Wakf Board). 
 
 The petitioner has contended that there are three Muslim MLAs and there is a possibility of holding elections to select one members from the legislative assembly. Even the   (BCG) has got multiple members belonging to the Muslim community. The petitioner asserted the most on the need to appoint a mutavalli in the Wakf Board through an election.
 
 In the newly constituted board, the state government has repeated some members besides appointing two women according to the requirement of the changed rules.
 
 In 2016, the petitioner had demanded dissolution of Wakf Board, because the term of the members and the chairman had got over then. The government did not appoint new members, and it led to another petition for formation of the board. The government had promised the HC to appoint new member by October 31, 2017 but did it earlier this month.
 
 Meanwhile, the same petitioner had filed a PIL in 2016 objecting to the Wakf Board’s grant for sale of 26 different Wakf properties across the state even after the amended law prohibited any disposal of such properties in 2013. The HC has stayed concerned trusts from selling their properties.
 
 
