JAIPUR: Spread over nearly 400 sq km and with a population of over 35 lakh people, the state capital is gasping for air due to congestion caused by the exponential rise in vehicles, especially in the   area

 With the number of registered vehicles growing in the absence of public transport, driving on the shrinking city roads has become a difficult task for commuters.
 
 This has finally forced the   (JDA) to draft a master plan for 2030 to streamline traffic problems. The firm, which was appointed to prepare the draft master plan, has given many suggestions to the   for implementation. However, it will remain a challenge for the JDA to make it a reality.
 
 To decongest the Walled City area, the firm has suggested developing terminals for mini buses at five places, including Ramniwas Bagh, City Palace, Ramgarh mod, Chaugan Stadium and Janta Bazaar.
 
 These buses are proposed to be connected with battery operated mini buses to reduce congestion as well as pollution.
 
 Sources at Jaipur City Transport Service Ltd (JCTSL) said, “The proposal to replace diesel mini buses with low-floor buses has been floated several times earlier after the traffic police declared them unfit for plying in the congested area. However, the project never took off due to the absence of funds.”
 
 The proposal to introduce articulated (double buses) and hybrid (battery operated) buses to promote green technology also fell flat.
 
 In the report, the necessity to revamp footpaths has also been stressed as 80 % of them are defunct. Most of the footpaths in the city are encroached and it would require the strong will of JDA to remove them.
 
 A   official said on condition of anonymity, “In 2017, the state government received a rap from the Rajasthan High Court for failing to file a compliance report on detailed directions given to civic bodies for maintaining the sanctity of master plans of cities across the state. It directed city mayor Ashok Lahoti to draw an action plan to remove encroachments from footpaths . However, the situation remains the same.”
 
 The firm has also suggested shifting the bus depot from Sanganer to Diggi Malpura Road. “The bus stand at Narian Singh Circle is causing congestion in middle of the city. It has not been shifted till date. In February 2017, the state chief secretary, O P Meena, had directed the Rajasthan State Road Transport Corporation (RSRTC) to shift the bus stand from Narian Singh Circle to Transport Nagar. The project was stalled after local MLAs protested, claiming that it would cause public inconvenience.” said the JDA official.
 
