Kolkata: Mamata Banerjee’s party maintained its ascendancy in Bengal, securing more votes than the combined share of all other parties in both seats that went for bypolls this Monday.

 BJP won the race for the runner-up position — comfortably in the Uluberia Lok Sabha constituency and not so comfortably in the Noapara Assembly constituency — with CPM continuing its remarkable slide in a state where it was in office less than seven years ago. Congress finished as an also-ran in both seats, which also saw a surge in NOTA votes.
 
 The two results, taken together, confirmed Bengal’s lurch towards a bipolar polity — with BJP shaping up as the principal opposition to Trinamool Congress — which was last on show in the 2017 local polls.
 
 Thursday’s   result announcement, which coincided with Congress Parliamentary Party president Sonia Gandhi’s holding a meeting of the opposition in Parliament, came as a shot in the arm for Bengal CM Banerjee. “Soniaji congratulated me. I also congratulated her,” Banerjee said, referring to the Congress’s spirited performance in Rajasthan. 
 
 “The bypoll result is a people’s victory. All parties should come together against BJP. We should plan for one-to-one fights against BJP. I believe the BJP will be voted out of office in 2019,” she added.
 
 Uluberia Trinamool candidate Sajda Ahmed (the seat fell vacant after her husband, Sultan Ahmed, passed away) created a milestone of sorts by securing 7.6 lakh votes (60.9% of the total votes cast), 13% more than her husband’s tally of 5.7 lakh votes in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. She defeated her nearest rival, BJP’s Anupam Mallik, by a margin of 4.7 lakh votes, bringing to mind CPM candidate Anil Basu’s eyebrow-raising victory from Arambag in the 2004 Lok Sabha polls; his winning margin was 5.9 lakh votes. Uluberia also saw a spike in NOTA, which garnered 11,768 votes.
 
 The Trinamool’s spectacular win came chiefly from its especially strong show in three assembly segments: Udaynarayanpur, Shyampur and Bagnan. BJP has made some dents in the Trinamool and CPM vote banks in the other two segments — Uluberia East and Uluberia North — that have Trinamool MLAs, H A Safwi and Nirmal Majhi, respectively, but they were not enough to stop the Trinamool’s march. But BJP has one important takeaway from the Uluberia bypoll: it has gained a ready activist force that, for the first time, has been able to throw some sort of a challenge to the Trinamool vote machine.
 
 “Our party has been gaining ground consistently and has come up as a strong number two from number four. Our party has got the support of erstwhile Left and Congress voters,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. “But we are yet to get the floating votes that are crucial for winning polls,” he admitted, accusing the Trinamool of polarising voters and saying that it was time the Trinamool became wary counter-polarisation.
 
 Trinamool Noapara candidate Sunil Singh also gobbled up the opposition, securing more than 51% of the votes in a constituency that the party had lost to the combined Congress-CPM candidate in the assembly election less than two years ago by a slim margin of 1,095 votes.
 
 Singh, also the Garulia Municipality chairman, polled more than 1 lakh votes and won by a spectacular margin of 63,012 votes. The second-placed BJP candidate secured 38,708 votes. The massive win will help Singh and his relative, Trinamool Bhatpara MLA Arjun Singh, to establish their command in the entire Barrackpore belt and marginalise their detractors within the Trinamool.
 
 CPM’s continuing slide, which started exactly 10 years ago in the 2008 panchayat poll, does not bode well for the party as it prepares for another panchayat poll this summer. Its polling percentage came down to 11% from the 2014 LS 31.1% in Uluberia and, in Noapara, the combined tally of the CPM and the Congress was barely more than BJP’s tally by barely 7,000 votes.
 
 
