HUBBALLI: The education department is considering taluk headquarters as cities only for transfers, but not for house rent allowance (HRA). This was revealed when Yeshoda from Hirekerur in Haveri district called   DDPI N H Nagur during a   programme conducted by ‘Vijay Karnataka’ , a sister concern of TOI, here on Friday.

 However, Nagur defended the department’s move, citing that salary and allowances cannot be considered for categorization of ranges, which is made to balance the teachers’ strength in rural areas. However, Yeshoda argued that the government is providing 30% HRA in city corporation limits, which gives just 10% HRA for employees working in taluk headquarters, considering them as rural habitats.
 
 Though the programme was restricted to teachers of Dharwad district, hundreds of teachers called from Chamarajanagar, Mysuru, Mandya, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Ballari, Vijayapura, Koppal, Uttara Kannada and other districts. Most of the questions were focused on transfers of couples.
 
 When a teacher from Koppal shared his bitter experience over the online process of transfer of applications, Nagur admitted that there is a technical difficulty in providing printouts of submitted applications, which will be rectified by Friday evening.   of Yellapur questioned whether he may get a mandatory transfer, though he had worked for 13 years in the C range and is now posted in A range from past 15 years. “Teachers who are posted in A range from over 10 years, may get mandatorily transferred, but only 5% of teachers working in the district in the A range can be transferred at a time. Each   office is preparing a list of such teachers, to put them in the C range,” Nagur said.
 
 Radha, a teacher in Morarji school in Vijayapura, said her husband works in the education department, but has been unable to upload a transfer application under the couple category. “As the website is compulsorily asking for my KGID policy number, it’s not taking in our application,” she said. The DDPI suggested her to mention the social welfare department in the KGID policy number column.
 
 A teacher from Chamarajanagar district drew the attention of the DDPI over error in transfer guidelines. Nagur said he will bring it to the notice of the director of public instruction (DPI).
 
 A few teachers were confused over the re-categorization of ‘unit’ by the government. “This time a district is the unit for primary school teachers, and a division is the unit for high school teachers. Teachers opting for transfers within the unit, need not wait for any minimum period of time,” said the Dharwad DDPI.
 
 Y B Rotti from Belagavi district asked whether he can seek transfer to teach at the high school level, as he is a Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan teacher. Nagur replied that if the salary and cadre is the same, SSA teachers can opt for high school teacher posts, as both fall in Grade-2.
 
 A woman teacher, who is still in the probationary period, asked whether she can apply for transfer, as she is pregnant. The DDPI outright ruled this out, as she is still under the probationary period.
 
 
