Mumbai: Hours after residents complained to TOI about   installed and food being cooked in a municipal garden at Jogeshwari during a   hosted by a group affliated to the local Shiv  , the assistant municipal commissioner blacklisted the group and shut down the event. 

 In the city starved for open spaces, this news brought cheer to the locals living near  .
 
 On Friday morning, TOI visited the park and found huge banners announcing a fun fair hosted by Jogeshwari Yuvak Ekta Mandal, which is patronized by Shiv Sena corporator Raju Pednekar. The banners also advertised about the “largest Ferris wheel” at the fair. TOI also found several food stalls operating inside the park. 
 
 “Since last year, people affiliated to political parties are organizing fairs in the garden,” said Rehana Bastiwala, who lives in a building opposite the park. “This is unacceptable; such commercial activities should not be allowed on a public open space. Also, there is a hospital located in front of the garden.” Bastiwala’s daughter Unaiza said the “noisy fairs” sometimes go on till midnight.
 
 When TOI contacted assistant municipal commissioner of K-West ward Prashant Gaikwad, he said, “We had received an application from an NGO seeking to host an event at the park and following due process, permission was given. However, amusement rides cannot be allowed. Accordingly, a   will be served to the organizer.”
 
 In the evening, Gaikwad informed TOI that a notice was served to the president of Jogeshwari Yuvak Ekta Mandal after civic officials inspected the park and found food being cooked on the premises. The notice stated: “You have violated the terms and conditions of the permission and hence it has been revoked with immediate effect...You have been blacklisted and no any permission will be granted to you in future.”
 
 But Pednekar claimed the complaint against the fair was politically motivated. “In the past, several such fairs have been held in the park, but no one took any objection. These complaints are politically motivated as I have a good rapport with the locals. In fact, thousands of local residents have been visiting the fair.” 
 
 
