GURUGRAM: As many as 32   have been rescued by the   and some NGOs in and around the city in the past one month. Eight cobras, two pythons, 12 common sand boas (a rare species), five common wolf snakes and five other species, including rat snakes and red sand boas, have been rescued from different areas in Gurugram. 

 
 Not just villages, a few of these snakes were rescued from residential societies and highrises in developed areas, including sectors 37 and 48.
 
 While residents are living in fear, experts have said these snakes are venturing out as they are losing their habitat and there is no reason to be scared of them as most are non-venomous.
 
 Last week, residents of Ramaprastha Edge, a residential society in Sector 37, expressed concern and fear after two snakes — a cobra and a common sand boa — were rescued near the boundary wall of the society. 
 
 “All of us are scared. We moved from Delhi to this society by Dwarka expressway, expecting more safety. However, snakes were rescued from a borewell adjacent to the boundary wall of our society twice. The authorities should do something about it,” said a resident, requesting anonymity.
 
 According to  , who rescued most of the snakes, the snakes are coming out due to rising heat and shrinking habitat. “I have been getting a lot of calls for rescue of snakes for the past one month. Most of the time we find snakes hiding inside under-construction buildings where they get some moisture. Snakes look for a cooler place during summers as the temperature has been rising continuously. However, the main reason of increased snake sightings is their shrinking habitat. It is natural as human population is increasing and the city is constantly expanding,” said Gandas, a wildlife conservator and founder president of   Environment and Wildlife Society.
 
 Shyam Sunder, district forest department, told TOI, “It is true that rising heat is responsible for more snake sightings. The cases will only go up as snakes have a tendency to come out in the rainy season.”
 
 According to sources, 20 snakes were rescued last year in April-May.
 
