GURUGRAM: India’s golfing flavour of the season,   fired a course-record score of eight-under 64, vaulting him 55 places to second place with seven-under 137 on Day Two of the Indian Open on Friday.

 
 At seven-under 137, the 21-year-old was four strokes behind   of Argentina who carded a 68. At the halfway stage, the cut was projected at three-over with eight golfers still to complete their rounds.
 
 Earlier, the course was almost grilled to perfection once again for Emiliano but a final-hole bogey left a sour taste to the mouth as the famished Grillo headed for lunch. One look at the leaderboard, his 11-under total, and everyone had the feeling others were fighting for crumbs.
 
 In the afternoon, however, a toast was raised to sole Indian hope Shubhankar Sharma who served up nine birdies on a platter. Closing birdies on the 17th and 18th were certainly the cherries on the cake as the European and Asian Tours leader left the table with a course record 8-under 64 at the DLF G&CC.
 
 After a successful run at the WGC in Mexico and a draining trip, doubts were raised whether Shubhankar would have the energy to retain his focus but the young man is full of surprises. With 2016 and 2017 Hero Indian Open champion SSP Chawrasia taking the exit route early, the baton has been passed to the 21-year-old to continue the home celebrations in the 1.75million event at the Gary Player course.
 
 Already a two-time winner on the European Tour this year, Shubhankar was placed four strokes behind the Argentine at the halfway mark and knowing the daily grind on this demanding layout, a couple of strokes lost or gained will make a lot of difference.
 
 The trick is to always recover from the spiral, as the World No. 66 displayed so efficiently on Day 1. “If you told me I would be seven under-par going into the weekend after being five-over-par on my opening nine holes (10th to 18th) yesterday, I would just have laughed,” he said. “To be able to bounce back is really important, I knew I was playing well and I had to push myself a little.”
 
 On Friday morning, having scored four birdies on his final nine for an overnight score of 1-over, he reminded himself that momentum was on his side. “I just needed to put my foot on the pedal and keep on going.”
 
 The Masters invitee is capable of going low. His final-day 62 at Maybank Championship in February made him spring out of nowhere to the promise land but this is one round he is not going to forget soon. “It will definitely rank up there as one of my most significant achievements, especially when it is played on this course, tough as it is. This one is right in my top five.”
 
 The highlights were all from the back nine. Two-under on the turn, the second shot on the 10th landed about a foot from the hole and started the blitz. “That was a very tough pin.” The birdie putt on the 12th was a monster as well, and the bogeyman was slowly but surely cornered. Four birdies followed in six holes, and the rest was history in the short life of the Black Knight course.
 
 In the morning, Grillo followed his Thursday’s record-equalling 65 with a 68. “It was pretty similar but hopefully, I can find my putter a bit more tomorrow, like how it was on day one and with that, I can keep climbing up the leaderboard,” the 2016 PGA Tour Rookie of the Year said.
 
 With friend Anirban Lahiri playing a major role in his decision to fly all the way to India, the Lionel Messi and River Plate fan will probably have the Indian to thank if he breaks his near three-year drought. The 25-year-old, a contemporary of   and   in American college golf, had announced his stage on world golf when he won on his PGA Tour debut at the 2015 Frys.com Open. “When I practised on Tuesday and played the pro-am on Wednesday, I was telling myself that I’ll be in a good position if I can just shoot under par every day. I’m pretty pleased. Hit the fairways and greens - I’ll have the same mentality whether I’m six shots ahead or behind.”
 
 Shubhankar’s ‘vegetarian’ partner Khalin Joshi jumped 26 places to tied-9th with a 4-under 68. “Red numbers are awesome,” said Pablo Larrazabal who announced on Twitter he had woken up on time after Thursday’s mad dash.
 
 
  133 (11-under)- Emiliano Grillo 65-68; 137-Shubhankar Sharma 73-64; 138-Pablo Larrazabal (Esp) 67-71, Andrew Johnston 72-66; 139-Matt Wallace (Eng) 69-70, Keith Horne 66-73, Jens Dantorp (Swe) 69-70, Panuphol Pittayarat (Tha) 69-70.
 
 
  140-Khalin Joshi 72-68; Projected cut at 3-over
 
