KOLKATA: Police probing the   on a 27-year-old woman at an abandoned port trust building in Taratala said the juvenile justice board would decide if the three minors involved in the crime would be treated as adults based on the   as was done during the Nirbhaya case in Delhi.

 Police have also seized the mobiles of all six youths but suspect they have deleted the videos and pictures from the phone memory cards after sharing it among themselves and some friends.
 
 Among the six suspects, three minor boys aged between 15 and 17 were sent to juvenile justice home on Saturday, while the others have been kept in police custody.
 
 “We have seized the phones but it seems some videos and pictures have been deleted from the phones. Some photos and videos were also shared over some messaging apps and subsequently deleted. We are trying to track if anyone has received any material from the youths over the period of time and recover the deleted documents from the phone memory cards,” said a senior officer.
 
 The new Juvenile Justice Act (JJ Act), enacted in 2015 to replace the old law on treatment of juveniles in India, lowered the age at which minors could be prosecuted as adults from 18 to 16.
 
 On Friday afternoon, a 27-year-old woman was lured into a trap and gang-raped by six people, including three minors, at an abandoned   building — less than 500 metres from her aunt’s place in Taratala. The suspect, including a retired   official’s son, allegedly filmed the assault on their cell phones and threatened the woman that they would upload the clip on social media if she went to the police. But the woman’s mother and her aunt convinced her to report the matter to cops, who picked up all the accused, one by one, after a four-hour raid in the neighbourhood. The mastermind turned out to be a 15-year-old working in a poultry who had planned the entire crime and, after it was over, returned to the poultry and quietly resumed work.
 
 The incident shook the neighbourhood and the city alike. While   for Women demanded strictest punishment for the youths, psychiatrist Sabyasachi Mitra said the suspects should be treated as persons with criminal mindset.
 
 
