JAIPUR: Ninety-two year old Swami   has not received formal education, yet he has been a force in providing education to thousands over the years. Head of Ramanandi sect which is spread across the country, Das chose his abode at an ashram in  ,   (Jaipur). Having received prestigious   Shri 2018, for spiritualism and spreading harmony, his description is incomplete without mentioning about his contribution in the field of education.

 Das has established five colleges and aided over 25 government schools in the backward regions of Rajasthan. Two colleges are for girls. His biggest achievement, followers say is the grant of Rs 50 crore from 2002-2005 for establishing Sanskrit university which was later renamed after the founder of Ramanadi sect Jagatguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University in Jaipur.
 
 Then chief minister   had announced to open a Sanskrit university in 1998 but due to shortage of funds it could not be done till 2002. “Das learnt about the financial problem coming in the way of establishing Sanskrit university. He approached the state government and expressed to donate amount without disclosing it. Later, the government insisted that he donate it publicly in order to encourage more people for supporting education,” Sita Ram Sharma, the foremost disciple of Das said.
 
 Das in early 80s realized that the role of spiritual leaders is to bring an overall change in life of people — spiritually, educationally and health-wise. The ashram has a Ved school which is known as the most advanced Ved school in the northern belt. Here students are taught about the scientific and spiritual aspect of the Vedas.
 
 Other than the educational institutes, he opened ayurvedic hospital named after his spiritual guru   in Shahpura. “Babaji’s routine has yet not changed. He wakes up at 2:30 am every day irrespective of weather and proceeds to the central hall of the ashram. Here he gives darshan to his followers. The most common philosophical message he delivers is to ‘love nature, it will teach you to love human beings,”  , a Ramanandi sect follower said.
 
 Born in a village in Shahpura, Das’s parents were disciples of Bhagwan Das the then head of Ramanandi sect. They prayed to Baba that if their child survives he/she will serve Bhanwan Das.
 
 He survived and was left at the ashram at the tender age of 5. Soon he picked up Sanskrit and gained expertise in Vedas and other Hindu scriptures. His interest in ancient scriptures at the early age has surprised many. He rose to fame when he started delivering pravachans on his own.
 
 
