MANGALURU: Have time on your hands and know how to operate a handheld  ?

 Election officials are hiring amateur lensmen, students and volunteers to help them with video recording of events relating to elections.
 
 Officials are finding it difficult to hire professional cameramen for poll duty in the constituencies as it’s the wedding season and photographers aren’t ready to take up poll work which isn’t lucrative in the least.
 
 Also those who those who take the contracts for poll video recording are seeking amateur videographers and students. Unlike the previous election, this time the requirement of videographers has increased in every constituency.
 
 “Finding cameramen and paying them is expensive. So we have increased the procurement of handheld cameras. We are also roping in volunteers who do the work at minimal cost,” said Sasikant Senthil, district electoral officer and deputy commissioner. Around 1,000 cameras are required in   district for poll duty.
 
 Currently each constituency has around 20-25 cameramen and the number is expected to increase when May 12 approaches.
 
 Meanwhile, government officials, too, have doubled as cameraman. A government servant said that last election he was given the task to shoot at checkposts put up by Election Commission. Cameramen have to be present at the polling booths allotted to them between 7am and 5 pm on May 12. They have to submit a hard copy of the recordings the same evening.
 
 Most professional cameramen skip polling work because of delayed payments. A cameraman, who did not want to be identified, said his bill from the 2013 assembly polls is still pending. “They give excuses like no funds, no officer and send me away. It’s been five years and I have not received payment which amounts to over a lakh despite making several rounds of the office,” he added.
 
 Despite that he has offered his services for this election too.
 
 “I charge Rs 3,500 per shoot. So far I have completed 15 days of shooting. To avoid getting my fingers burnt again, I have asked them to clear the payments as soon as possible. If they fail, I am going to stop working for them from Monday,” he added.
 
