CHENNAI: The Airports Authority of India's ( ) move of increasing the number of speedbreakers to prevent rash driving on the flyover that runs in front of the domestic and international terminals, has invited the ire of cab drivers who regularly drop off passengers at the Chennai airport. 

 The authorities have added more speedbreakers between the domestic and international terminals, taking the number of bumps to 18, say cab drivers. They complain that the speedbreakers slow them down during peak hours, making it harder for them to exit the airport within 10 minutes, the free of charge time frame. If they stayed beyond 10 minutes, the cab drivers would have to pay 150 parking fee. 
 
 PACE trust coordinator   said, "There are specific guidelines to lay these speedbreakers. Rules have been flouted in this case and it can cause harm to those using the stretch."
 
 Balaji has filed an   query demanding details about laying of speedbreakers. D  , national president of the Air Passengers Association of India, said that he had never seen so many speedbreakers inside the other airports in India.
 
 Drivers drop the passengers at the domestic departure and drive rashly on the stretch between the two terminals so that they can reach the exit gate before 10 minutes to avoid having to 150 as fee. 
 
  An AAI official said that the speedbreakers were laid to prevent rash driving. "We have received complaints about overspeeding by the cab drivers on the bridge. They rush to exit in less than 10 minutes. Some of the cabs exit and then drive up the flyover again in the hope of finding some trip." There is a view among a set of AAI officers that the 10 minutes rule is unwarranted and instead all vehicles should be charged some minimal fee for entry. 
 
 D Sudhakara  , national president of the Air Passengers Association of India, said: "We discussed the issue in the airport advisory meeting on March 2. We have received many mails about quarrels between the drivers and the counter staff over paying the fee."
 
 Reddy said, "We have decided to study the situation in other airports and take a call." He also added that his association had not yet received any written complaints. However, his members informed him about the chaos at the exit channel especially during the peak hours.
 
  (With inputs from 
 
  V  ) 
 
 
