NOIDA: Touching the golden mark of 499,   of Noida has emerged as the all-India topper in  's class XII exams becoming the second girl from the city to achieve the feat in the last two years.

 
 A Humanities student who says she is thrilled at her achievement, Meghna was trying hard to deal with the media attention throughout her interviews.
 
 But the attention is here to stay for a while as she has got a 100/100 in four subjects - Psychology, Geography, History and Economics with one mark less only in English.
 
 While Meghna had been a diligent and a consistent student throughout, the   paper leak controversy did upset her a lot, she admitted.
 
  
  
 "It was really upsetting because I had studied really studied hard for my Economics paper. It was very frustrating when I got to know that there is going to be a re-test but it was good that my retest went as good as my first paper," she told mediapersons.
 
 Meghna says she wants to pursue Psychology major and is aiming for an admission in the prestigious   in Vancouver.
 
 A singer, a voracious reader and an active volunteer of an NGO of her school Step By Step, Sector 132, Meghna has been says she doesn't remember the number of hours she had been devoting everyday.
 
 Her achievement has thrilled her parents Gautam and   as well. Her father   describes her as a very diligent student who did not take tuitions for any subject ever.
 
 "It is her diligence, planning and consistency, which has helped her achieve this. This is her hard work and she has not taken any tuitions for any subject. We never pressurized her for anything," says Gautam who serves as an associate professor in  . Her mother Alpana is an HR head for a multinational company in Gurgaon.
 
 While her feat will definitely raise the bar for others, Meghna says that the 499 mark may only be needed for admission.
 
 Asked whether 499 marks mattered, she remarked that in India, universities are very competitive. "If you want to get admissions, it does matter a lot but that is only for the day till you join, I feel," she said.
 
 The all-India topper however has an advice for the other students.
 
 "Please don't stress over your boards. You don't need tuitions. I have been organised throughout, I had told myself that I don't want to succumb to the pressure. Just be consistent, make your notes," she said.
 
 
