CHENNAI: Bob Feller, the late American baseball pitcher who volunteered to go to World War II, told USA Today in 2007: “Heroes don’t return from war. If a bullet has your name on it, you’re a hero. If you hear a bullet go by, you’re a survivor.”

  did not go to war. The war came to him.
 
 
 
  
 
 After a series of unexpected events triggered by J Jayalalithaa’s death on December 5, 2016,   found himself in the chief minister’s chair on February 16, 2017. His well-wishers gave him three months in the hot seat. A year later, the 63-year-old who represents the Edapadi assembly constituency in Salem, has proved to be the quintessential survivor.
 
 Defending his post against his creator-turned-tormentor T T V Dhinakaran and opposition leader M K Stalin, EPS remained in power not because he was strong, but because he knew he was weak. And from this realisation stemmed his humility that he tempered with tact.
 
 Outwardly unperturbed by the turbulence around him, he carried on with Jayalalithaa's welfare measures and MGR’s centenary celebrations to show continuance of their work, if not to claim their legacy. All the while, he kept his unreliable bunch of MLAs on tenterhooks with the subtle threat: If you pull the rug, we all fall.
 
 EPS’s remarkable achievement of having remained in power for a year can probably be attributed to the public perception of his being an unremarkable chief minister (though his report card – see graphic – shows quite a few thumbs-ups). This, however, would not have been possible without the blessings of the BJP which wants to keep the DMK, now a   friend, away.
 
 While this “central support” – as many AIADMK insiders call it – will remain crucial, EPS has remained as nice as possible to everyone, leaving the name calling to such colleagues as fisheries minister D Jayakumar. For strategies, he has such colleagues as municipal administration minister S P Velumani and electricity minister P Thangamani.
 
 Even MLAs who were opposed to EPS during his tussle with O Panneerselvam have been floored by the chief minister’s humility. Bureaucrats who had to wait for hours – sometimes days – to have an audience with his predecessor are breezing in an out of the chief minister’s chamber.
 
 “It is a practised humility, not to be mistaken for timidity,” says a party leader who was in the thick of negotiations with the O Panneerselvam faction that led to the merger on August 21, 2017. Sources privy to the talks say EPS was tactful. “He showed great interest in getting the OPS faction on board, but would not part with the home portfolio which OPS wanted, along with finance and public works. Finally, OPS had to agree to just the finance portfolio and a few less significant ones for him and his man K Pandiarajan,” says an insider.
 
 OPS, by now aware that he would not be able to wean away enough MLAs to pose a threat to EPS, fell in line. EPS continued the coup within the party, dismantling the post of the general secretary which OPS has been aspiring for, and instead announced an 11-member steering committee with OPS as the coordinator and himself as the joint coordinator. In one stroke, EPS had neutralised the demand for ‘party for one, government for the other.’
 
 By taming OPS, EPS had also chosen TTV as his enemy. TTV’s victory in the RK Nagar byelection plagued by cash-for-vote allegations should be a concern for EPS, but the chief minister appears to have chosen the hard path. The AIADMK has been expelling TTV supporter by scores. He, however, is yet to speak a word against V K Sasikala.
 
 By meeting industry captains, who never had an audience with the chief minister at the secretariat for many years, EPS seeks to send out a positive signal, but on the ground no new investment has happened. And, with a governor like Banwarilal Purohit who has been holding meetings with state officials and sending regular reports to the Centre, allegations of corruption would not auger well for the state government.
 
 The crackdown on some university heads, sources say, is an effort to bring in a semblance of a clean-up. Such tokenism may not keep the BJP masters happy for long. While Stalin and TTV plot their own strategies, EPS’s next big challenge will be the high court verdict on disqualification of 18 legislators.
 
 As another war front opens, there could well be a bullet with the initials ‘EPS’ etched on it. Yet, EPS may not end up a hero—he would just be a survivor who finally fell.
 
 
