VISAKHAPATNAM: Denizens in the city continue to suffer as most automated teller machines (ATM) are still out of cash. The two-day national strike, called by bankers added the woes of those who needed cash to meet expenditures as the new month begins on Friday.

 
 
 According to   officials, Visakhapatnam district has around 1,150 ATMs, including 800 odd in the core city.   (SBI) and Andhra Banks have more ATMs than any other public and private sector banks in the city.
 
 The district has 21 lakh ATM card holders, including 15 lakh card holders in the city alone.
 
 Sunkara Murali Mohan, a senior foreman from Vizag Steel Plant, said, he had tried the ATMs of Canara and State Bank of India at   branches on Wednesday evening for an emergency situation, but he returned home empty-handed. “Finally, I managed to withdraw some money at an Axis bank ATM,” Mohan added.
 
 An assistant professor from Gandhi Institute of Technology and Management University, DS Satish, said, he tried the ATMs around   bus station at Dwarakanagar, but to no avail. “I tried almost all the ATMs at the station, but it was the same everywhere,” Satish added.
 
 “I just came from   hoping to withdraw money in Vizag. I am amazed to see that ATMs in a city like Vizag has no cash,” Satish added.
 
 The picture is the same everywhere. If it is not lack of cash, then several ATMs are out of order compounding the problem. 
 
 Apart from the RTC bus stations, many ATMs at the railway station are also not working properly, complained S Pradeep, a passenger of Garib Rath Express, which runs between Visakhapatnam and Secunderabad.
 
 “All the machines located along the foot-overbridge had the ‘No Cash Available’ board hanging from the doors,” Pradeep added.
 
 The banks should at least ensure that their ATMs at public places like bus and railway stations and hospitals are in working condition, he said.
 
 When contacted, a senior bank official said “The existing cash crunch at the ATMs have been aggravate owing to the strike called by bankers. The problem will be resolved soon,” the officer said.
 
 
