PATNA: Ritik Raj of Don Dosco Academy (DBA) with 98.6% emerged the overall Patna region topper in   (Class X) examination, but girls outperformed boys in both the ISC (Class XII) and Class X examinations conducted by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE). The results were announced on Monday. 

 Aryendra Singh of DBA with 97.2% (in science stream) emerged the overall topper from Patna zone in Class XII. Soni Sagarika of Mt Carmel High School with 93.5% topped in commerce stream while Shweta Singh and Astha Jain of St Joseph’s Convent High School Bankipore shared the top position with 94.25% in arts stream.
 
 The overall pass percentage of Patna zone in Class X was 99.6%, but the girls had 100% while the boys scored 99% pass percentage only.
 
 In Class XII, the overall pass percentage of Patna zone was 99%, compared to 100% in Bhagalpur zone in both the ICSE and ISC. Altogether 4,400 students, including 2,900 from Patna, appeared in Class X exam from Bihar. In Class XII exam, 650 from Patna among 1,200 students from the state wrote the papers. 
 
 Patna and Bhagalpur are the two zones in Bihar.
 
 DBA principal and CISCE convener (Patna zone) Mary Alphonsa told this newspaper on Monday that the results of Class X and XII were better than last year. “In Class X, most of the schools in Patna, including SJCHS, DBA, MCHS, International School, Mt Carmel Lohia Nagar and St MG Public School, have 100% results. Similarly, in Class XII, DBA, MCHS and SJCHS scored 100% results,” she said.
 
 International School directress Farhat Hasan said, “The school has secured 100% results with first division. Altogether 25 students have secured 90% and above and 40 students have 80%, 45 secured 70% and the rest scored 65%. Five students in computer application and 2 in mathematics scored 100% marks.”
 
 Maths fascinates Boscoite: 
 
 Ritik Raj, who emerged the ICSE (Class X) topper from Patna zone with 98.6% and bagged full marks in mathematics and computer science, wants to pursue mathematics as his core subject in Intermediate.
 
 The son of Siya Ram Pandey, an accountant at Accountant General (AG) office in Patna, and Madhulata Jha, a housewife, Ritik from Don Bosco Academy in Patna said, “I would have not achieved this without the constant support of my schoolteachers.” He said mathematics is his favourite subject.
 
 Shweta Singh of St Joseph’s Convent High School, who shared the overall topper tag in ISC (Class XII) with Astha Jain from Patna zone in humanities with 94.25% marks, said, “I want to pursue law in higher studies.” Out of 100, she scored 95 marks in Hindi and history. “I was surprised with my results because I managed to score the highest,” she said. 
 
 Meanwhile, by scoring 97.2% in ISC (Science), Aryendra Singh of Don Bosco Academy ranked first overall in Patna zone. He scored 100 marks in computer and mathematics and 97 in physics, 95 in chemistry and 92 in English. Aspiring for NIT, Aryendra wants to pursue computer science (CS) in graduation. “CS fascinates me. There are a number of new discoveries in this field, especially artificial intelligence. However, I am yet confused between CS and chemical engineering,” Aryendra said.
 
 
